24056280|The texture of a plant community, i.e. the range of values in functional characters across the species present, integrates the ecological and evolutionary processes that have led to that community's present species composition. The idealistic prediction of ecological theory is that selection for co-adaptation and competitive sorting will lead to convergence in texture between different patches of vegetation with the same environment. This concept has previously been applied at the continental scale; here it is applied for the first time at a within-community scale. Three communities were sampled, all in Fiordland, New Zealand: a predominantly native heathland, a floodplain grassland largely dominated by exotic species but with a considerable native component, and a native sub-alpine grassland with shrubs. The same five functional characters were measured in each community: height, leaf area, specific leaf area, leaf thickness and support fraction. In all three communities, to varying degrees, there was evidence of texture divergence in height, either in the mean or in the distribution. Tall species tended to associate with other tall species, and short species with other short ones. In the sub-alpine grassland, significant texture convergence occurred in leaf area, i.e. each patch tended to comprise a mixture of some small-leaved species and some large-leaved species. It is suggested that convergence may have occurred only in the sub-alpine grassland because of the greater maturity of the vegetation in evolutionary and ecological terms.
24056287|Plastic bait stations were trialled to assess their usefulness as a rabbit control tool. Non-toxic cereal baits were applied at two 171 ha Mackenzie Basin sites, at one site in stations and at the other site spread directly on the ground. Bait-take at each site was measured. Rhodamine-dyed baits were also used to determine the proportion of rabbits at each site that took bait. Bait-take, and the proportion of shot rabbits with stomachs containing dye, were both significantly lower (P 0.0001) at the bait station site. The bait station design used in this trial is unlikely to prove an effective rabbit control tool. Alternative bait station designs should be tested if bait stations are to be used for rabbit control.
24060766|Large areas of mountain beech (Nothofagus solandri var. cliffortioides) forest in the South Island of New Zealand have been destroyed by fire and replaced by grassland or shrubland. Mountain beech regenerates into grassland or shrubland mainly by slow spread from forest margins, though instances of long-distance spread into manuka (Leptospermum scoparium) shrubland have been recorded. To determine if manuka shrubland may be used to facilitate establishment, seed of mountain beech was sown under moderately dense and dense manuka canopies, at manuka stand edges, and in open grassland or moss-dominated vegetation at three sites in the Waimakiriri catchment, Canterbury. Seedling establishment after 2 years was strongly influenced by both site and position in relation to the manuka canopy. Rainfall during November of the first year (after seeding in April) was low and 0.3% emergence occurred at a site with stony soils on a steep west-facing slope. Mean emergence at the other two sites was greater (10.6% and 11.5%) and at those sites was greatest at manuka-canopy-edge positions (2530% of seed sown). Few seedlings emerged in open grassland or moss vegetation and these mostly died. Survival of emerged seedlings after 2 years was high (45100%) under manuka and at the stand edge. Greater establishment of beech seedlings at the edge of or under manuka stands is attributed to the provision of shade and possibly mycorrhizal inoculum by manuka. Further monitoring is required to determine ultimate seedling survival.
24052746|The properties of a variable area sampling technique, by which the observer varies the search-radius to obtain approximately a prescribed number of woody plants in each tier measured, were determined by (i) comparison of fixed area and variable area sampling of a computer-mapped shrub population; (ii) comparison of results from fixed area and variable area sampling of woody plants exceeding about 2m height in a rata-kamahi forest; (iii) two variable area surveys of woody plants exceeding 30cm height in a beech forest. Variable area sampling gave unbiased estimates of crown area and plant density in the computer-mapped population. These were as precise as estimates obtained by fixed area sampling when sampling intensities were equal. For the same number of plots, 20 m  20 m fixed area sampling of density and basal area in rata-kamahi forest was more precise than variable area sampling in plots containing 30 stems per plot, but in terms of sampling intensity and time, variable area sampling was more efficient. Both sampling methods gave similar stem diameter frequency patterns. Two surveys of beech forest, conducted 11 years apart, showed that with about 7080 single-tier plots, differences in basal area of about 15% can be detected using the variable area plot method. Variable area sampling is robust and suitable for ecological surveys of New Zealand's indigenous forests.
24053566|Benthic invertebrates and samples of blue duck faeces were collected in September 1988 from sites along Manganuiateao River, central North Island, and in November 1988 from seven rivers and streams on the East Cape. The occurrence of invertebrate taxa in the faeces varied within and between rivers, and within pairs of birds and family groups on the East Cape. In both regions, most blue duck had been consuming large proportions of cased caddisfly larvae. These are thought to have been mainly species of Helicopsyche and Pycnocentrodes at the East Cape sites and Beraeoptera roria at the Manganuiateao sites. Plecoptera larvae were also relatively abundant in blue duck faeces from most Manganuiateao sites in September. Overall, blue duck consumed proportionately more cased caddisfly larvae than occurred in the benthos (especially at the East Cape sites), but fewer Chironomidae, Coloburiscus humeralis and leptophlebiid mayfly (mainly Deleatidium spp.) larvae. Factors that affect the type of invertebrate foods available to blue duck at a particular site could include habitat heterogeneity, chance encounter, frequency and magnitude of floods, and geographic differences in the pool of invertebrate colonists. Apparent selectivity or avoidance of some benthic invertebrate groups by blue duck may partly reflect predator evasion by fast-moving invertebrate species, and differences in activity and distribution on upper stone surfaces where invertebrates should be more susceptible to predation by blue duck.
24058200|Diet of 98 ship rats (Rattus rattus) was investigated by examination of stomach contents. Rats were trapped (as bycatch in stoat traps) from June to December 2006, in the Dart Valley near Lake Wakatipu, New Zealand, after a Nothofagus beech mast. Plant material was found in 43% of all stomachs, invertebrate fragments in 67%, feathers in 8%, hairs in 46% and skin with hairs attached in 12%, and animal (vertebrate and invertebrate) tissue in 76%. Hair samples examined by scanning electron microscopy were from mice, and rat and/or mouse DNA was found in all (10) samples subjected to DNA extraction. Mice may be an important food resource for rats following beech masts, when mouse population densities are high. Presence of feathers indicates predation of roosting or nesting birds, or scavenging. Consumption of beech seed beyond the time of germination may be due to caching of seed.
24053263|Time-series analysis, a relatively uncommon technique in ecological studies, has been applied to annual tree growth-ring series. In agreement with earlier North American work, ARMA(1,1) models were found to be the predominant form for expressing stochastic growth processes, occurring in 58% of the 36 Nothofagus menziesii and N. solandri time-series examined. The remaining 42% conformed to an AR(1) process. The average parameter values of {0.79, 0.42} for the ARMA models are remarkably consistent with North American work. Such derived stochastic models should be regarded as average processes; analyses of first-order autocorrelation coefficients indicate fluctuations in absolute value within series, including some short periods of independence. An apparent preference for a specific ARMA model with species is better explained by the lengths of the series; a shorter time-series is likely to have a simpler stochastic model over time, by virtue of lesser precision associated with model parameters. Thus, 81% of the series longer than 200 years are modelled by an ARMA(1,1) process, while 78% of the series shorter than 200, are modelled by AR(1). It is suggested that although fitting Box-Jenkins stochastic models to various genera represents an interesting area of research, the approximate equivalence of the various models, and their part-dependence on series length, negates the need to locate an optimal process in all circumstances. The principal advantage of utilising Box-Jenkins models in this application is to render data more suitable for analysis with environmental variables, and to enhance cross-correlation and mean sensitivity.
24058138|Terrestrial ecosystems that were rare before human colonisation of New Zealand often have highly specialised and diverse flora and fauna characterised by endemic and nationally rare species. Although many of these ecosystems are under threat from anthropogenic modification and their biodiversity values are declining, they still are not adequately identified by current land classifications. We compiled a list of 72 rare ecosystems from the literature and by canvassing New Zealand ecologists and land managers. Rare ecosystems are defined as those having a total extent less than 0.5% (i.e. < 134 000 ha) of New Zealand's total area (268 680 km2), and the resultant list includes both well-recognised and less well known ecosystems. To define the ecosystems in a robust fashion we developed a framework based on descriptors of physical environments that distinguish rare ecosystems from each other and from more common ecosystems. Using this framework the 72 rare ecosystems are defined using pertinent environmental descriptors selected from soil age, parent material, soil chemistry and particle size, landform, drainage regime, disturbance, and climate. For each ecosystem, an example locality and the dominant vegetation structural type are also given.
24053252|Foot area and structure, body weight and locomotion are compared in moas and ungulates to give estimates of pressure and edge loading when standing and moving. Moa foot pressures ranged from 0.15 kg/cm2 to 0.19 kg/cm2 which is very similar to those of emu feet. Red deer foot pressures were 0.395 kg/cm2, goat 0.430 kg/cm2, and tahr 0.35 kg/cm2. The differences in edge loadings were not so marked. During locomotion over soft ground, the ungulate hoof acts like a chisel, and as the toes splay out, the hoof edge shears the substratum. In contrast, the ratite foot is more flexible, and rolls off the ground causing little or no cutting damage with the edge. The action of the ungulate hoof is quantitatively and qualitatively different from that of moas in affecting the integrity of plants, animals, and substratum.
24052013|The winter diet of the takahe (Notornis mantelli), an endangered flightless gallinule, which inhabits the mountain grasslands and forests of the Fiordland region of southwestern New Zealand is described. A close correlation exists between their use of rhizomes of the summer-green fern (Hypolepis millefolium), a major item in the winter diet, and the peak in the rhizomes' annual cycle of carbohydrates and certain minerals. It is suggested that the high carbohydrate concentrations in the rhizomes are required by the birds to meet the metabolic requirements of thermoregulation in the subfreezing temperatures of mid-winter. The likely adverse effects of competition from introduced red deer (Cervus elaphus), both directly in limiting the extent to which the winter diet of takahe can be supplemented with other favoured plants, and indirectly in reducing availability of Hypolepis rhizomes by increasing the incidence of soil freezing through depleting subcanopy layers of the evergreen Nothofagus spp. forest, are also discussed.
24053633|Non-toxic plain and cinnamon-flavoured carrots and cereal-based baits used in poisoning operations for control of the brushtail possum (Trichosurus vulpecula) were offered to seven species of captive rare birds at Mt Bruce National Wildlife Centre. Some individuals of all species ate plain baits. Antipodes Island parakeets (Cyanoramphus unicolor) preferred carrot to cereal-based baits, North Island kokako (Callaeas cinerea wilsoni) and North Island saddlebacks (Philesturnus carunculatus rufusater) preferred cereal-based baits to carrots, but the other species showed no bait preference. Most baits eaten were greater than 2 g. Some individuals of all species also ate cinnamon-flavoured baits. However, cinnamon deterred North Island kaka (Nestor meriodionalis septentrionalis), Antipodes Island parakeets, and kokako from feeding on baits the first day offered, though not subsequently. Insufficient baits were eaten by North Island weka (Gallirallus australis greyi), red-crowned parakeets (Cyanoramphus novaezelandiae novaezelandiae), and Reischek's parakeets (Cyanoramphus n. hochstetteri) to determine whether they were also deterred by cinnamon. Only saddlebacks were definitely not deterred. All species except red-crowned and Reischek's parakeets probably ate sufficient to receive a lethal dose if the baits had been toxic. Baits may be made less acceptable to birds by increasing the strength or slowing the release of cinnamon, or by using a more repellent flavour. Because baits may always be acceptable to some birds, wildlife managers need to know the chances of wild rare birds feeding on baits before approving poisoning operations in areas where they occur.
24053258|In the 1950s, increased erosion, flooding and sedimentation was widely observed in New Zealand. The ruling opinion then was that the forests prevented erosion and floods, and browsing mammals were primarily responsible for the increased erosion of mountain lands. It followed that effective control of browsing mammal populations was necessary to prevent erosion and alleviate lowland flooding and alluviation. In the 1960s evidence was found for much severe erosion on the Ruahines in the 1840s  long before browsing mammals were there. Furthermore, four severe periods of erosion had affected the Ruahines, Ureweras and elsewhere, since the 13th century and each had ended regardless of humans, and without their assistance. By 1985 I was able to show that there have been at least seven other periods of accelerated erosion since 180AD, similar to, but greater than, the current one. These were long before even Polynesians and their animals had arrived in New Zealand. The present period of increased erosion and alluviation is primarily the consequence of atmospheric warming and the bigger rainstorms and floods it brings. Browsing mammals have not contributed significantly but they do reduce the density of the vegetation which minimises normal soil erosion and hence the concentrations of fine sediments in streams. The primary objectives in managing browsing mammals should be to: (a) protect the indigenous vegetation for itself and as habitats of native animals, and (b) enhance the beneficial effects of vegetation on the stability of surface soil and on water quality.
24052709|Kiore (Rattus exulans) carry food to husking stations to feed, where they are sheltered from predators, competitors and rain. On four northern offshore islands of New Zealand remains of plant foods left in husking stations and in the open included seeds, leaf laminae, shoots, bark, flowers and root bases. A wide variety of animal remains were identified in husking station material, from habitats as diverse as tree tops and below the ground. All stages of both small social and large solitary insects were eaten. Use of husking station material is a new technique; the advantages and limitations of which are discussed.
24055314|The contribution of seeds and fruit to the diet of the introduced brushtail possum (Trichosurus vulpecula) was examined in seral vegetation in lowland Canterbury, New Zealand. Fruit and seeds comprised c. 70% of total possum diet, and possums contributed 17% of the dispersed seed rain for the period of our study. The effect of gut passage on germination was measured for five seed species by germinating seeds recovered from faeces of captive and wild possums. At least one-quarter of seeds of four of the species germinated. Two seed species showed a negative effect, and one a positive effect of gut passage relative to uningested seeds. Although possums may increase the spread of invasive weeds, their seed dispersal behaviour may offer conservation benefits by accelerating succession in seral vegetation. Because of the reduction in numbers of large-gaped native birds (e.g. kereru, Hemiphaga novaeseelandiae), possums may now be the only dispersal agents for large-seeded native species in many areas.
24052813|The waterweed Lagarosiphon major (Hydrocharitaceae) was first recorded in Lake Taupo in 1966, and by 1979 it had occupied most, if not all, the potentially colonisable sites in the lake. The aim of this study was to examine the distribution, abundance and growth forms of L. major in Lake Taupo and to assess the effects of this plant on the native aquatic vegetation. Studies involved underwater mapping of the 161 km length of littoral zone of the lake and detailed analyses at 42 sites around the lake at which L. major biomass, height and density were measured together with the species composition of each site. Five growth forms of L. major were identified, ranging from absent to beds of continuous cover greater than one metre in height. The relationship between these growth forms and height and biomass was established. Height and biomass were negatively related to fetch, and positively related to littoral slope angle and proportion of fine sediment. The number of native species decreased markedly as L. major height and biomass increased. The most noticeable decrease was at 4 m depth. Large weed beds of L. major attract herbivorous birds and detritivores which also adversely affect the native flora. Until recently the implications of the spread of L. major for the conservation of the indigenous flora has been overlooked.
24052715|A bioclimatic zone system is proposed that defines a set of biogeographical cells so as to facilitate valid global comparisons of ecological data. These zones are primarily defined on grounds of temperature and secondarily on moisture balance. They roughly correspond with potential vegetation boundaries, but extant vegetation is not necessarily a biogeographically useful index of a site.
24054468|Relationships between composition of secondary vegetation and environment were studied in central North Island, New Zealand. A classification procedure was used to identify broad compositional groups which included forest, broadleaved scrub, shrub-fernland, sclerophyllous scrub and shrubland, and tussock-shrubland. Generalised additive models (GAMs) were used to examine relationships between species' distributions and mean annual temperature and rainfall, stand age, distance from intact forest, slope, topography, and drainage. There were marked differences in the environmental relationships of individual species. We conclude that temperature and rainfall have a dominant role in determining succession after disturbance at a regional scale, but distance from intact forest, topography, slope and solar radiation, become important at local scales. Variation unaccounted for by these environmental factors is most likely linked to historical factors such as variation in disturbance and/or grazing and browsing regimes. Intervention by managers will probably be required in the future if the current diversity of secondary vegetation in central North Island is to be maintained.
24060665|We investigated canine teams (dogs and their handlers) on Guam as a potential tool for finding invasive brown treesnakes (Boiga irregularis) in the wild. Canine teams searched a 40  40 m forested area for a snake that had consumed a dead mouse containing a radio-transmitter. To avoid tainting the target or target area with human scent, no snake was handled or closely approached prior to searches. Trials were conducted during the morning when these nocturnal snakes were usually hidden in refugia. A radiotracker knew the snake's location, but dog handlers and search navigators did not. Of 85 trials conducted over four months, the two canine teams had an average success rate of 35% of correctly defining an area  5  5 m that contained the transmittered snake; the team with more experience prior to the trials had a success rate of 44% compared with 26% for the less experienced team. Canine teams also found 11 shed skins from wild snakes. Although dogs alerted outside the vicinity of transmittered snakes, only one wild, non-transmittered snake was found during the trials, possibly reflecting the difficulty humans have in locating non-transmittered brown treesnakes in refugia. We evaluated success at finding snakes as a function of canine team, number of prior trials (i.e. experience gained during the trials), recent canine success at finding a target snake, various environmental conditions, snake perch height, and snake characteristics (snout-vent length and sex). Success rate increased over the course of the trials. Canine team success also increased with increasing average humidity and decreased with increasing average wind speed. Our results suggest dogs could be useful at detecting brown treesnakes in refugia, particularly when compared to daytime visual searches by humans, but techniques are needed to help humans find and extract snakes once a dog has alerted.
24054778|In 1996 an eradication operation against two species of rats (Rattus norvegicus and R. exulans was conducted on Kapiti Island (1965 ha) and its small offshore islands. Trials with non-toxic baits had been carried out to help determine the risks to non-target species, and research was undertaken to collect baseline data for measuring the response of vegetation, invertebrates, reptiles and birds to the removal of rats. Talon 7-20 bait (containing 0.002% brodifacoum) was distributed over Kapiti Island in September and October by helicopter and by hand, while bait stations were used on the offshore islands. Impacts on birds and reef fish were investigated. Although there were non-target bird deaths as a result of the poisoning operation, post-eradication monitoring indicated that the toxin had no deleterious effect on breeding and most losses would be rapidly made up by recruitment of new individuals into the breeding population. There was no evidence that reef fish were negatively affected. The successful removal of rats has apparently resulted in a significantly improved survival rate for stitchbirds (Notiomystis cincta) and saddlebacks (Philesturnus carunculatus). Benefits to other taxa are expected and will be documented as follow-up studies are completed.
24052711|Brushtail possums were studied over a period of four years by live-trapping, poisoning and kill-trapping on an altitudinal transect (4551500 m a.s.l.) in beech (Nothofagus) forest in South Island, New Zealand. There was a single breeding season in autumn in which most females (including 80% of one-year-olds) participated. Trap-revealed ranges of adults were up to 1 km long and some immature males dispersed up to 10 km. Capture rates in live-traps were highest in beech/podocarp forest at 455460 m a.s.l. and declined with altitude. No possums were caught above the treeline (1400 m a.s.l.). Removal of possums by poisoning on a 500  500 m grid yielded a density estimate of 0.46/ha in mixed beech forest at 460650 m a.s.l. The density, weights, reproductive performance, movements and structure of the study population are compared with the results of other studies and some implications for possum control and fur harvesting are briefly discussed.
24056188|The number and abundance of exotic weeds in native forest fragments are known to correlate with the distance to the nearest large town. This is of concern as land near lowland forest is increasingly being subdivided for housing throughout much of New Zealand. We quantified the relationship between settlements and exotic plants for the coastal forests in eastern Northland, New Zealand. Exotic plant species were sampled in 18 coastal forest areas of varying size, and related to attributes of nearby settlements (housing proximity, density, age, and the exotic plant species present). All settlement attributes were significantly related to the number of exotic species present in neighbouring forest fragments, unlike fragment size. The exotic species found in a particular forest area were significantly more likely to be present in the neighbouring settlement than in other settlements. The number of houses within 250 m of a forest area, alone, explained 66.8% of the variation in the number of exotic plant species in these forests. Our results suggest that proximity and size of settlements are currently the dominant factors controlling the number of exotic plant species in these forest areas, rather than ecological conditions within the forests. Properly managing the locations and densities of new subdivisions, as well as the species grown in gardens in existing and new subdivisions near forest reserves, will reduce the weed pressure and subsequent cost of weed control in these reserves.
24060859|We explored the relationships between ground vegetation, ground fauna (native skinks and invertebrates), rabbits, and predators in a modified New Zealand dryland ecosystem. We hypothesised that vegetation cover would provide habitat for ground fauna. We also hypothesised that rabbits (Oryctolagus cuniculus) would reduce the abundance of these fauna by reducing vegetation, and by providing prey for mammalian predators (cats Felis catus and ferrets Mustela putorius) that consume ground fauna as secondary prey. We measured these variables at 30 sites across three pastoral properties in the South Island in 1996 and 2002. There were mostly positive relationships between vegetation ground cover and fauna captures in pitfall traps. Relatively few beetles and caterpillars were caught where cover was less than 80%, no millipedes were caught where cover was less than 70%, and few spiders and mostly no skinks, crickets, flies or slugs were caught where vegetation cover was less than 50%. Most grasshoppers were caught where cover ranged from 30 to 80%. Faunal species richness was also positively related to cover. This supports our hypothesis that ground vegetation provides habitat for skinks and invertebrates in this ecosystem. The introduction of rabbit haemorrhagic disease in 1997 provided a natural experiment to test the hypothesised indirect effects of rabbits on ground fauna. Declines in rabbits varied between properties, and vegetation cover and predator abundance changed according to the magnitude of these declines. However, skink and invertebrate abundance did not track these changes as expected, but instead varied more or less consistently between properties. Some fauna increased (skink captures quadrupled and cricket captures nearly doubled), others declined (flies, caterpillars and spiders), and some did not change (beetles, millipedes, slugs and grasshoppers, and faunal species richness and diversity). Therefore, rabbits, predators and vegetation did not affect changes in skinks and invertebrates in consistent ways. The dynamics of ground fauna are likely to be more influenced by factors other than those we measured.
24053605|The abundance of birds in three different-aged stands (young, mature, and old) was examined at North Okarito, a lowland rimu (Dacrydium cupressinum) forest in Westland, using 5-minute counts, transect counts, and mist-netting. Most of New Zealand's common forest bird species were present in the study area, with relatively high numbers of brown creeper (Mohoua novaeseelandiae) and New Zealand robin (Petroica australis), and low numbers of kaka (Nestor meridionalis) and yellow-crowned parakeet (Cyanoramphus auriceps). Most insectivorous species were more abundant than expected (from sampling effort) in young and mature stands, the frugivorous New Zealand pigeon (Hemiphaga novaeseelandiae) was more abundant than expected in mature and old stands, and most omnivorous species, viz., bellbird (Anthornis melanura), silvereye (Zosterops lateralis), and tui (Prosthemadera novaeseelandiae), were more abundant than expected in young and old stands. North Okarito Forest provided an important source of seasonal foods (nectar, fruit, and seeds) for frugivorous, omnivorous, and introduced granivorous species, which tended to have greater changes in their seasonal abundance than did insectivorous species. Coupe-logging of old stands will affect all bird species because it will reduce the overall area of standing forest, but it will have a greater impact on the pigeon, bellbird, silvereye, robin, and tui because of their preference for old stands.
24053604|Bird populations were monitored for one year (October 1990-October 1991) to determine whether the 1080 poison used to eradicate possums and wallabies on Rangitoto Island had had any detrimental effects on them. There was no significant decline in bird numbers recorded immediately after poisoning, with four species increasing in abundance (P<0.001). Twelve months after the operation the abundance of four species had increased significantly (P<0.001). The poisoning does not appear to have had any negative effect on the bird populations of Rangitoto, while the removal of browsing mammals may in future prove to have beneficial effects.
24056170|In most regions of the world removal of environmental stress facilitates regeneration of native plants and habitats. However, in many of New Zealand's modified landscapes, exotic species are likely to respond first to any reduction in stress because these fast-growing species are prevalent in local vegetation and dominate seed banks. Given the trend in agriculture towards intensive management on larger units, the indigenous character in New Zealand landscapes is being marginalised and there is the risk that further reduction in visibility of native vegetation may be perpetuated by a growing familiarity and identification with ubiquitous exotic species. Alternative landscapes, based on an understanding of ecosystem processes, need to be explored if biodiversity goals set by international convention and national resource management law are to be achieved. This study provides a set of predictions and pathways, backed by field observations, to underpin a restoration strategy at patch to landscape scales. A forest model, LINKNZ, is employed to simulate species succession under New Zealand conditions. The incorporation of disturbance regimes and species dispersal processes in the model permits a wide range of scenarios to be investigated encompassing indigenous forest development, exotic species interactions with indigenous forest ecosystems, management of mixed introduced-indigenous forests, and landscape dynamics. The results illustrate an approach that identifies potential biosecurity threats and provides additional options for integrating nautre and production in New Zealand's rural and urban landscapes.
24060825|Multiple paternity increases the genetic diversity of litters, hence could have two important implications for the control of invasive pests in which multiple paternity is common. (1) Migrating pregnant females could establish a new population with substantial genetic variation from the first generation; (2) Existing populations could recover from a control operation with minimal bottleneck effect. We therefore sought information on the extent of this character in ship rats (Rattus rattus), and on the probability of pregnant females avoiding capture or moving to new areas. We genotyped the embryos carried by 17 pregnant female ship rats collected from eight forest fragments trapped to extinction in rural Waikato, North Island, New Zealand. Best results were obtained from a northern subgroup of five forest fragments, all located within 5 km of each other, where we had data for 57 candidate fathers, and 71 embryos in 15 litters. We matched 12 fathers with 24 embryos (34% of offspring) through correspondence of two independent analytical methods, using detailed ecological data to add to the value of the paternity data and exclude false matches. Six of the 12 northern-group fathers had contributed to only one litter each, whereas three were represented in three litters each and three in two litters. Additional fathers were identified by one or other method alone. A further 45 sexually mature males were present, but they were not definitely linked to any of the 71 northern embryos sampled, even though the genotypes of both were known. Another 55 embryos were genotyped but not firmly matched to any father. Multiple paternities were the norm: only one complete litter could be attributed to a single father, and all others had between two and four fathers. Only nine of the 101 old females (>121 g) caught at any time were marked with Rhodamine B dye, available only outside the trapping areas, whereas 18 of 62 old males (>141 g) were marked, of which 14 were caught after 7 days of trapping. We conclude that multiple paternity benefits surviving resident females of breeding age, whereas many breeding males are very mobile and benefit by moving on soon after mating.
24060829|North Island robins (Petroica australis longipes) and tomtits (P. macrocephala toitoi) are at risk of being poisoned during pest control operations in New Zealand. Robins are deterred from feeding on diets containing primary repellents (e.g. blue colour, d-pulegone) and secondary repellents (e.g. illness-inducing materials such as anthraquinone, which induce taste aversions). We tested, with wild robins, primary and secondary repellents surface-coated onto dough baits, over 4 days on Tiritiri Matangi Island. In comparison with green-coloured cinnamon-scented control baits, robins averaged at least 71% fewer pecks at blue-coloured, anthraquinone (0.09% wt/wt) baits with or without cinnamon oil (commonly used as a bird repellent) and 0.045% wt/wt anthraquinone baits with cinnamon oil or d-pulegone. There were no significant differences in pecking rates among the repellent formulations. Pecking rates at baits containing 0.09% anthraquinone were almost nil by Day 4. The efficacy of 0.09% anthraquinone at protecting tomtits from poisoning was tested in a commercial aerial possum control operation at Whareorino Forest using carrot baits. Prefeed (2 kg ha1) and toxic baits (3 kg ha1; 1080 at 0.12% wt/wt) were coated with anthraquinone (at 0.57 and 0.45 mg per kilogram of carrot, respectively), blue dye and an orange-flavoured lure and laid over an area of 1400 ha. Tomtit abundance, measured using sightings of territorial males along transects before and after the control operation, increased significantly more in the bird-repellent-treated block than in an adjacent block receiving the standard prefeed and green dye plus orange-lured toxic carrot baits. Possum catch rates declined further in the 'Repellent' block than in the 'No Repellent' block, but the field trial requires replication in a more effective possum poisoning operation. These trials have demonstrated the efficacy of repeatedly presented bird repellent formulations combining an illness-inducing agent, an unattractive colour and a distinctive flavour for protecting ground-feeding New Zealand forest birds from poisoning during mammalian pest control.
24053637|Hieracium, or hawkweed species, serious weeds in South Island high country, may be controlled by appropriate pastoral management. Experimental trials at Lake Tekapo, related to S and P fertiliser rates of 0-100 kg ha1 yr1, 27 different combinations of over-drilled and resident species and different seasons or intensities of grazing treatments on Hieracium dominated fescue tussock were conducted. These were monitored for 9 years in terms of fertiliser inputs used, sheep stocking rates, and vegetation changes. Hieracium decreased or disappeared under high fertiliser and sowing inputs, but remained an increasingly important component under successively lower fertiliser inputs.
24052011|The quantities of organochlorine insecticide residues in mynas (Acridotheres tristis L.) and especially in their eggs and nestlings reflected the concentrations of these pesticides in the soil of the birds' territories. Nearly all residues were derived from contaminated invertebrates, not fruit. Samples of soil, eggs and nestlings from areas adjacent to sprayed orchards contained little pesticideno more than was found in samples collected several kilometres from orchards. Although some adult starlings (Sturnus vulgaris), blackbirds (Turdus merula) and song thrushes (Turdus philomelos) died in tremors typical of organochlorine poisoning, no mynas were seen with these symptoms; earthworms, which readily accumulate DDT, DDD and DDE from the soil, are eaten less by mynas than by these other species. Fewer myna eggs hatched, and fewer nestlings survived in areas with much residue in the soil than elsewhere. The degree to which this mortality resulted from a shortage of insect food in heavily sprayed areas, rather than direct pesticide poisoning, was not determined. However, some eggs and nestlings probably died because of inadequate incubation or lack of food, while others were probably poisoned by pesticides.
24056286|We document the rapid recovery of kohekohe (Dysoxylum spectabile) canopy cover following the control of brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) in Motatau Forest, Northland, New Zealand. Possum trap-catch rates were reduced from 25.6  14.9% (mean  SE) in 1997 (prior to control) to 2.7  3.1% in 1999, but were little changed in Okaroro, an uncontrolled area nearby. Mean canopy cover scores for kohekohe in Motatau increased from 16.1  4.5 % in 1997 to 52.6  5.2% in 1999, but increased far less at Okaroro, from 42.3  6.3% to 48.0  7.75%. Changes of a similar nature, but of a much smaller scale, were recorded for four of the five other species monitored. For all six species combined, the increase in canopy cover at Motatau was much greater for the trees most heavily browsed initially, but there was no such pattern at Okaroro, further confirming that at least part of the observed increase in canopy cover was a response to the removal of possums.
24058133|Translocation is an important tool in the conservation of New Zealand reptiles. Despite this, it is generally not known how Hoplodactylus geckos respond to being translocated, partly because they are difficult to monitor. In this opportunistic study, 11 common geckos (H. maculatus) were captured from a site at Birdlings Flat (South Island, New Zealand) that was destined for destruction, and released in native coastal shrubland 1 km away. Geckos were sampled monthly using pitfall traps and artificial retreats, with only the latter method yielding captures. Ten out of 11 translocated geckos remained at the release site, and translocated animals moved equivalent distances to resident geckos (n = 13) over a 1-year period following translocation. Although studies spanning multiple decades may be needed to determine whether translocations of Hoplodactylus geckos are ultimately successful given their life-history traits, the development of an effective detection method is nonetheless a useful contribution.
24055333|Native birds may have been underestimated as pollinators of the New Zealand flora due to their early decline in abundance and diversity on the mainland. This paper reconsiders the relative importance of birds and insects as pollinators to eight native flowering plants, representing a range of pollination syndromes, on two offshore island refuges. Experimental manipulations were made on five of these plant species to assess the relative effectiveness of bird and insect visitors as pollinators. In addition, foraging behaviour and the respective morphologies of flowers and visitors were measured at all eight plants to identify the main pollinators. The experimental measures showed that percentage fruit set was significantly higher in flowers exposed to birds than flowers from which birds were excluded in all manipulated plants. The observational measures revealed that for six of the flowering species (Sophora microphylla, Vitex lucens, Pittosporum crassifolium, Pittosporum umbellatum, Pseudopanax arboreus and Dysoxylum spectabile) the endemic honeyeaters were most likely to meet the conditions necessary for successful pollination. For the remaining two species (Metrosideros excelsa and Geniostoma ligustrifolium) the contribution by honeyeaters and insects to pollination was equivalent. The results suggest that the role of the endemic honeyeaters in pollination of the New Zealand flora, and the subsequent regeneration of native forest ecosystems, should be important considerations in ecosystem management.
24058209|Impact of the irruptive fluctuation in abundance of brushtail possum populations since their initial colonisation was investigated in the forests of South Westland, New Zealand. Possum abundance, fecundity, and diet, the condition of common possum-palatable tree species, and the abundance of common forest birds were measured at three sites occupied by possums for c. 10, 20, and 30 years. Possum densities were highest at the site where possums had been present for c. 20 years. Possum fecundity was higher at the site they had recently colonised than at the two sites where they had been present for c. 2030 years. Diet of possums where they had recently colonised was dominated by highly preferred foods (72% of total diet), whereas these same foods contributed just 36% of total diet at the site where possums had been present for more than two decades. Canopy condition of common possum-preferred trees was scored progressively lower in areas with increasing length of possum occupation, especially at the site where the possum population had apparently declined from its maximum density. Native forest bird abundance also declined with increasing length of possum occupation. The implications of these results for management are discussed.
24058180|Pathological consequences of the blood-sucking mite Ornithonyssus bursa vary between species, with its impact ranging from no measurable effect, to significant blood loss and chick mortality. In New Zealand, where several bird species are known to be parasitised by O.bursa, the effect of this mite on host fitness is unclear, as few studies have been carried out. During a three-year study of the North Island robin Petroica longipes on Tiritiri Matangi Island, the prevalence of O. bursa in robin nests and on chicks and its impact on robin chick growth and survival was measured. The presence of mites was correlated with both time of the season and humidity of the habitat, with infestation being positively correlated with later nesting attempts and more humid microclimates. Robin chicks in infested nests were significantly smaller and fledged at an earlier age than chicks in nests where no mites were detected. Despite this effect, no significant difference in body size or survival was detected between the two groups at one month post-fledging. This was most likely because chicks from mite-infested nests compensated for their retarded growth once they left the nest environment. On mainland New Zealand, where ground-dwelling mammalian predators are present, chicks forced to leave the nest at an earlier age with less developed flying skills may be at an increased risk of predation.
24055296|We studied vegetation change on 142 permanently marked transects spread throughout tussock grasslands of Otago and Canterbury, in areas subject to both pastoral and conservation management. The transects were established between 1982 and 1986 and remeasured between 1993 and 1999, providing a record of vegetation change at each site over an interval varying from 10 to 15 years. Each transect consisted of 50 quadrats, each 0.25m2, in which the presence of all vascular plant species had been recorded. For each transect, we calculated the change between measurements in the mean number of species recorded per quadrat, and the change in the total number of species recorded per transect. Averaged across all transects, there was a significant decline in species richness between measurements at both the quadrat and transect scales. Small herbs (those  2 cm tall, excluding Hieracium species) showed the greatest decline. On average, more than one quarter of the small herb species present in a quadrat at the first measurement had disappeared within 10 years. Larger herbs, ferns, rushes, sedges and grasses (excluding Chionochloa species) also declined significantly in species richness, reflecting declines in the abundance of species in these groups. Woody species richness remained constant, while species in the genera Chionochloa and Hieracium increased significantly in mean quadrat species richness, reflecting increases in the abundance of these species along transects. The rate of decline in mean quadrat species richness was unrelated to changes in the abundance of either Chionochloa or Hieracium species, or to an overall increase in total vegetation cover on transects. The rate of decline in species richness was also unrelated to the level of grazing or burning between measurements. However, the rate of decline in species richness was greater at lower elevation, on schist rock and on yellow-brown and yellow-grey soils. Our results suggest that a major compositional change is occurring in these grasslands at a rate that is independent of local variation in management and independent of the widespread invasion of these grasslands by Hieracium species.
24058194|We compared nest survival of three urban bird species over two seasons in Dunedin City: silvereyes (Zosterops lateralis), a recent self-introduced native that is very abundant; blackbirds (Turdus merula), an abundant exotic species; and fantails (Rhipidura fuliginosa), a native species that occurs in relatively low numbers in some urban habitats. We also used artificial nests to compare nest predation rates between residential gardens and bush fragments isolated within a residential matrix. Silvereye nests had highest survival (daily survival probability = 0.98), with early nests and nests situated higher in trees having higher survival. Blackbird nest survival was lower (0.966); higher nests had better survival. Fantail nest survival varied significantly between years (0.908 in 200607 and 0.987 in 200708). Predation was a major cause of fantail nest failure, despite fantail nests being highest off the ground (mean = 4.2 m cf. 2.8 m for blackbirds and 2.2 m for silvereyes). Mortality of fantails during the week following fledging was high (41%). Low nest and juvenile survival may result in low abundance of fantails in Dunedin City. Predation of artificial nests was unaffected by nest placement (central or peripheral in the tree/shrub) and was the same in gardens as in bush fragments, with rats (Rattus rattus), possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) and possibly mice (Mus musculus) identified as nest predators.
24060644|Leaf functional traits have been proposed as general indicators of plant palatability to ungulate herbivores, identifying which species are likely to be most at risk from ungulates, and how ungulate grazing may change ecosystem processes. However, few studies have tested whether leaf traitpalatability relationships are consistent across different ungulate species. The palatability of 44 native New Zealand grass taxa (from the genera Festuca and Chionochloa) to two ungulate herbivores (sheep Ovis aries and red deer Cervus elaphus scoticus) was assessed in cafeteria experiments. There were significant differences between sheep and deer in the selection or avoidance of grass taxa, in part related to differences in response to variation in leaf functional traits. Deer had a greater tendency than sheep to select grasses with a higher specific leaf area (SLA) and to avoid taxa with a low SLA, suggesting that it is not possible to generalise leaf traitpalatability relationships across different ungulate species. Results suggest different ungulate species are likely to have additive effects on the biodiversity and ecosystem functioning of New Zealand's native grasslands. These findings indicate that the impacts of ungulate herbivory on ecosystem processes will depend on which grass species are present.
24054440|The relevance of Connell's Intermediate Disturbance Hypothesis (IDH) to explanations of diversity and co-existence among plant species generally and in the phytoplankton in particular has been debated recently. Compared to terrestrial vegetation, planktonic communities experience distorted time and space scales. Generation times are in the order of days, not years to decades. Advective fluid transport raises the critical patch size to the order of kilometers. Within these scales, species survival and growth, community assembly and successional development in the phytoplankton conform to all the standards (compositional, strategic, thermodynamic) of conventional community organisation. These processes are known to move toward competitively excluded outcomes. Equally, they are liable to be interrupted by externally imposed disturbances, which reset the succession or alter its potential outcome. These findings are not only illustrative of intermediate disturbance but are instructive in the nature of diversity-disturbance relationships generally. IDH has considerable potential to explaining persistent species co-existence.
24060827|Ongoing investigations into bird mortality caused by aerial 1080 poison operations to suppress pest populations will be required because the operational specifications continually change and improve. We summarise recent studies of bird deaths following 1080 operations and present six principles for use in prioritising future research into poison risk for bird populations. A decision tree and supporting flow diagram show how the need for new surveys can be evaluated using these principles. Iterative reporting of surveys and use of the six principles to prioritise new work will enable bird mortality risks to be continually updated in an evidence-base for conservation.
24066772|The 'Intermediate Disturbance Hypothesis' (IDH) is one mechanism suggested to explain indefinite species coexistence. Hutchinson's original concept of the IDH was of a mechanism based on patch dynamics, and logical consideration shows that IDH works only if interpreted this way. Dependence on patch dynamics distinguishes IDH from Gradual Climate Change (GCC), though they are distinct also in terms of premature death of individuals, species selectivity, and the suddenness and transience of the perturbation. The application of the concepts of 'disturbance' and of IDH to phytoplankton communities is questioned.
24052635|The vegetation pattern of Borland Mire, a 250 ha lowland raised mire near Monowai, in the rainshadow of the Fiordland mountains, is described using several numerical analyses of quadrat data collected at regular intervals along parallel transects across 430 m of a typical segment. A weak zonation pattern of both flora and vegetation is revealed among the 24 vascular species and the more abundant cryptogams present. The most abrupt change, some 90 m from the margin, is marked by decline in importance of the "Dacrydium" and "Empodisma-Campylopus" communities and is associated with changes in slope and water table depth, as well as in the depth, colour, and the water, organic matter and ash contents of the peat.
24060755|Many populations of invasive mice Mus musculus in New Zealand have experienced the removal of mammalian predators and competitors, with the consequence of mouse population irruptions. The effects of these removals on mouse foraging are largely unknown, yet this information is essential for developing and implementing better mouse control. We investigated the effects of direct and indirect predatory cues on foraging of free-ranging mice at a site where mammalian predators were eradicated 5 years previously. We used 17 stations, each containing four trays of millet seeds mixed thoroughly in sand, with three unfamiliar mammalian (a predator, a competitor, and a herbivore) odour treatments and a control (water), during the four phases of the moon. We measured mouse selectivity for treatment/control trays, giving-up densities (GUDs, a measure of food consumption), and tray encounter rates. Foraging by mice was not affected by odour cues from any of the unfamiliar mammals. Moonlight intensity, however, affected mouse foraging, with higher GUDs being recorded on brighter moon phases (full and waxing > new and waning) during the first night of the trials. This effect was less pronounced during the second night. Resource encounter rates were also affected, with the proportion of trays foraged lower during the brighter phases of the moon on both the first and second nights. We suggest that coordinating management efforts according to the phases of the moon has the potential to improve mouse control and reduce bait wastage.
24056438|The striped skink (Oligosoma striatum) is a poorly known New Zealand endemic species rarely seen in the wild despite ongoing efforts to locate specimens. It is uncertain whether its threatened status is due to low numbers, or to unusual habitat use and activity patterns that make it difficult to detect. Anecdotal reports indicate the species may be partly arboreal. We carried out captive-based behavioural comparisons between striped skinks and the common terrestrial brown skink (Oligosoma zelandicum). Brown skinks are of similar mass to striped skinks and overlap in geographic range and habitat, but are easily captured by hand and pitfall trapping in the wild. They were therefore a suitable comparison from which to assess activity levels and arboreal tendencies in striped skinks, with the aim of improving survey methods. Point samples and total frequencies of behaviours were collected using time-lapse video recordings taken concurrently of individuals of each species occupying identical enclosures. Striped skinks had significantly higher levels of diurnal activity than brown skinks. They also showed periods of nocturnal activity associated with high moisture levels. When active, the types of behaviours carried out by each species were very similar, as were the proportions of active time spent carrying out each behaviour. Striped skinks spent significantly longer periods at greater heights within the enclosure than brown skinks, indicating stronger arboreal tendencies. High levels of arboreal activity and in particular nocturnal activity may make striped skinks more vulnerable to introduced predators such as rodents and possums. In order to accurately assess the status and carry out long-term monitoring of the striped skink, new survey and capture techniques will be required. Arboreal traps, visual canopy surveys and surveying felled trees are recommended.
24052637|The Cromwell chafer, Prodontria lewisi, is a flightless chafer beetle whose natural range appears not to have been more than 500 hectares and which now, because of habitat destruction and modification, is reduced to about 100 hectares. This inhabited area is situated on the terrace on which the town of Cromwell, Central Otago, is built. The continued existence of the Cromwell chafer is threatened by the expansion of Cromwell township and increasing human activities in the vicinity. P. lewisi is thought to have evolved from a small founder population which became isolated in the Cromwell basin some time during the Pleistocene. It lives in stabilised dunes of wind-blown sand. Adults come out at night to feed mainly on scabweeds (Raoulia spp.). Larvae feed on the roots of tussocks, especially Poa laevis. Apart from habitat modification, an important limiting factor on P. lewisi may be predation by the little owl, Athene noctua. The Cromwell Borough Council has fenced an area of 95 hectares of predominantly native vegetation on wind-blown sand, inhabited by P. lewisi, south-west of Cromwell township. It is hoped that this area will soon be declared a reserve. The natural vegetation is threatened by exotic trees and shrubs, especially Pinus radiata. Proposals for control of exotic plants, and other management proposals, are outlined. Vegetation of the proposed reserve is mapped, and described in an appendix by Dr J. C. E. Hubbard and Mr T. Partridge.
24053306|The vegetation of 10 quadrats from each of 26 sites, in and around the Tongariro National Park, which contained the introduced dwarf shrub, Calluna vulgaris (L.) Hull, was analysed using Reciprocal Averaging and Indicator Species Analysis. Six major plant communities were recognised and related to previous mapping units: tussockland with shrubs and herbs (red tussock tussockland); heathland with tussock and Dracophyllum subulatum (monoao-red tussock tussock-shrubland); communities of herbfield and scoria slopes ([mountain inaka] gravelfield); Calluna-dominated tussock or heathland (heather-red tussock tussock shrubland and heathland shrubland); Gleichenia/Empodisma bog (red tussock/wire rush-gleichenia rushland); and weed/scrub communities of disturbed ground (unmapped). An ordination of the sites showed that the major directions of variation in the vegetation were associated with altitude and soil moisture. Calluna had increased in extent since the area was mapped in 1960, and has been observed to have increased further since this survey was completed in 1984. Calluna has a potential to spread in all the recognised communities, although increases have been greatest in tussock grassland and on disturbed ground at lower altitudes and least in boggy areas. Calluna thus remains a threat to the natural vegetation of the Park, although some areas may be equally liable to succeed to taller vegetation. It is suggested that future research should be directed towards the effective control of heather within the Park.
24052816|Increased dieback in Westland rata (Metrosideros umbellata) - kamahi (Weinmannia racemosa) forests has been linked to the build-up of populations of the Australian brush-tailed possum (Trichosurus vulpecula). Within these forests young even-aged stands are observed to be more resilient to dieback than older stands. The effect of possum browsing on individual rata trees was related to the level of defoliation. Trees which had been not or only lightly browsed maintained intact canopies. Where browsing resulted in canopy opening exposed leaf bunches continued to deteriorate, even in the absence of further browsing. In even-aged rata-kamahi stands which were still undergoing natural thinning crown size was small, and the loss of individual trees (whether by competition or possum browsing), did not affect the ability of the stand to maintain an intact canopy cover. Once thinning was complete, the loss of large crowned mature trees led to the opening up of the stand and to continuing damage by wind, fungi, and insects. Dieback is thus a positive feedback process in mature stands, but a buffered one in immature, self-thinning stands.
24052798|Recapture of marked Hoplodactylus maculatus individuals gave estimates of minimum longevity in the field ranging from 7 to 17 years with a mean of 12.7.
24055299|The Chatham petrel (Pterodroma axillaris) is an endangered species restricted to a single population on South East Island, Chatham Islands, New Zealand. The key threat to Chatham petrel breeding success is interference with chicks by broad-billed prions (Pachyptila vittata) prospecting for burrows for their oncoming breeding season. This burrow competition has resulted from alteration to breeding habitat by humans throughout the Chatham Islands. Understanding habitat preferences may enable managers to manipulate habitat to reduce burrow competition and will be essential in order to translocate Chatham petrels to a proposed second colony. Habitat characteristics surrounding both Chatham petrel and broad-billed prion burrows were quantified and selection ratios compared. Both Chatham petrels and broad-billed prions selected habitat factors associated with mature forest. Chatham petrels avoided a large number of habitat characteristics, which suggests they were habitat specific, and their preferred habitat is now limited. Broad-billed prions used a wide range of habitat characteristics, which suggests they are not habitat specific. This study recommends that selection values be used when deciding on the best location to establish a second Chatham petrel colony.
24054432|The sand dune system at Chrystalls Beach, New Zealand comprises front dune, dune hollow and rear dune areas. On the front dunes are two communities: one on the seaward face of the dunes, and another on the landward face. Most of the dune hollow is occupied by a series of grassland communities, but there are areas of a distinctive cushion community, still largely native in its species composition. It is suggested that the cushion community is maintained against invasion by a switch, possibly involving sand grain size, soil organic content, water supply, wind and magnesium:calcium ratio. The coarse sandy/pebbly substrate, with its low organic content, causes water stress. The water stress permits only low vegetation, which exacerbates the low soil organic content. The low vegetation results in high wind, again favouring cushion species. The water regime has also allowed a buildup of Mg:Ca ratio, especially in the lower layers of the soil.
24056324|Forest vegetation patterns alongside the Poerua River, south Westland, were studied to determine whether a distinct riparian community could be defined either immediately adjacent to the river, or out to the limit of overbank flooding. Ten randomly located 100 m transects were established perpendicular to the river at each of two sites. Ground cover of alluvial sediment indicated that annual overbank flooding occurred up to 20 m into the forest (the flood zone). No significant difference in vascular plant species richness was found between the flood zone and non-flood zone at either site, however a significant difference in species richness was found between sites, and this was attributed to recent disturbance at the edge of one site. Detrended correspondence analysis separated plots by site and indicated a gradient of species change from the river's edge to the ends of the transects. There were inconsistent differences in the densities and/or basal areas of trees and shrubs between sites and zones. No distinct band of vegetation was recognizable as a riparian zone alongside the Poerua River. Instead, there was evidence that edge processes had influenced vegetation patterns on a gradient away from the river, fluvial processes had eroded into, and influenced the vegetated edge, and historical disturbance events had had strong effects on vascular plant community composition. The riparian zone incorporates the whole floodplain and environmental management needs to take this into consideration.
24053608|The abundance and diet of stoats (Mustela erminea) were compared before and after an aerial 1080-poison operation for possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) in a New Zealand podocarp-hardwood forest. Poisoning dramatically reduced ship rat (Rattus rattus) abundance. Although rats were the main prey item of stoats before the poisoning, stoat abundance was unaffected by the operation and there was a change in stoats' diet from rats to birds. The conservation benefits and risks of undertaking such operations are not clear. It is not known whether the predation risk for any particular species of bird (or other animal) will be higher or lower with fewer rats but the same density of stoats. As large-scale poison operations are now common in New Zealand forests, a better understanding of predator-prey relationships in these areas is required as soon as possible.
24058184|The Canterbury Plains have lost most of their pre-Polynesian indigenous vegetation, primarily forest and shrubland. One of the few remaining areas is the 2.3 ha Eyrewell Scientific Reserve which consists mostly of low knuka (Kunzea ericoides) forest and a small area of grassland. We assessed the Reserve vegetation using a combination of plots and transect surveys at different times of the year between 20012003. For comparison with the Reserve vegetation we also assessed plots in an adjacent grazed knuka remnant, adjacent cultivated pasture and Eyrewell Forest, a pine plantation. Our study of the Eyrewell Reserve in 20012003 found that since an assessment of the Reserve in 1972, 28 indigenous species were no longer present but 14 indigenous species and 48 adventive species were newly recorded. The dramatic invasion of the Reserve is illustrated by the fact that 60% of the 118 species recorded in 2003 were adventives compared to 34% in 1972. Despite this invasion and the loss of indigenous species, Reserve plots still have more than twice as many species as plots in the adjacent pine plantation. The Reserve also included several species of high conservation value such as the "Chronically Threatened" Leptinella serrulata, and the "At Risk" Aciphylla subflabellata, Coprosma intertexta and Pterostylis tristis. Plots in the Reserve grassland and adjacent pasture had the lowest percentage of indigenous species of all habitat types, with the pasture plots having no indigenous vascular plant species. In contrast the understorey of the old pine stands had the highest percentage of indigenous species of any of the habitats and in places was dominated by knuka up to 4 m tall, indicating that these plantations also have conservation value. Eyrewell Reserve and the few other remaining knuka remnants in the Canterbury Plains represent an important pool of indigenous species for conservation. Options for the future management of the Reserve are discussed.
24056285|The condition of 79 plants of the loranthaceous mistletoe Tupeia antarctica in a podocarp-hardwood forest in the central North Island, New Zealand, was monitored over 4 years during a period of increasing possum density, following previous possum control. Mistletoe comprised 1.2% of total possum diet during the three years following possum control. Incidence of possum browse on mistletoe plants increased from 2.6% of plants when the trap-catch index of possum density was <3%, to 75.9% of plants when trap-catch rates reached 4.6%. Mistletoe foliage cover declined from 49.8% to 15.6% and mean plant size declined by about 55% over the same period. The mistletoe population was dominated by plants with large haustoria, located in heavily shaded locations in the lower crown of their Carpodetus serratus hosts. Most plants established more than 20 years ago, and the current potential for recruitment of new individuals into the population is severely limited by possum browsing and the senescent nature of the mistletoe population. Intensive management of host crowns and possum populations will be necessary to ensure the long-term viability of mistletoe at the study site.
24054552|Mature Octochaetus multiporus in pots of sieved soil created a network of burrows with a diameter of about 10 mm which did not open to the surface. Several chambers 15 to 20 mm wide and 20 to 50 mm long were found within the burrow network; some worms were found curled within these chambers which also contained a quantity of loose cast material. Octochaetus multiporus responded to the presence of plants by burrowing nearer to the surface under white clover and nearer to bottom of the pot under chicory.
24056347|We analysed pollen in short-tailed bat guano samples from Rangataua Forest and from guano and pollen found in bat holding bags used in the Kaimanawa Range, central North Island. Fifty seven percent of the pollen from Rangataua was from a previously unrecorded source and was tentatively identified as Trachycarpus fortunei (Chinese windmill palm). The significant remaining pollen was identified as Collospermum (15%) and Nothofagus (14%) from Rangataua, and Collospermum (90%) and Nothofagus (6%) from Kaimanawa. While the presence of Collospermum from both sites is consistent with previous work, pollen from T. fortunei, an exotic palm growing near Rangataua Forest, has not previously been found in association with short-tailed bats. Despite nocturnal surveillance with automated bat detectors and infra-red video cameras, we failed to confirm bat visitation to these palms. Nothofagus is wind-pollinated and pollen extracted from samples taken from both sites is probably wind-borne contamination. A collation of data from all available studies on the pollen found associated with short-tailed bats throughout New Zealand reveals that flowers from just four plant groups appear to be regularly used by bats: Collospermum spp., Knightia excelsa, Metrosideros spp. and, apparently, T. fortunei.
24052383|Approximately 50% of seedlings of lucerne cv. CUF101, selected in California for resistance to blue-green lucerne aphid (BGLA), proved resistant to heavy BGLA infestations in the glasshouse in New Zealand. All seedlings of cv. Wairau, cv. Saranac and cv. Washoe were severely stunted and altered in growth habit at the same level of infestation. These results for levels of resistance agree with U.S.A. results.
24060780|Gap analysis is a tool that allows conservationists to quantify the effectiveness of protected areas at representing species diversity, but the lack of distribution maps for invertebrates has precluded its application to the world's most diverse animal groups. Here, we overcome this limitation and conduct a gap analysis, using niche modelling, on the Pterostichini (Coleoptera: Carabidae) of New Zealand, one of the most diverse and most threatened tribes of ground beetles in the nation. Niche modelling uses data on abiotic parameters to model predicted species ranges based on records of their known distribution, and is a useful tool for conservation planning. This method is widely applicable where there is good taxonomical knowledge of the group in question and distribution records are available. We obtained sample localities from museum records for 67 species of Pterostichini, including 10 species listed as threatened, and modelled their spatial distributions based on climate, landforms and soil properties. Most species had small spatial distributions, with 4875% of species having ranges of less than 100 000 ha. We found the areas with highest species richness fell largely outside of the protected area network, as did the distribution of most individual species, with just 2025% of species having more than 30% of their range falling within a protected area. In terms of percent land area, New Zealand has one of the world's largest protected area networks, but the spatial distribution of that network affords little protection to this group of invertebrates. This analysis provides support for the creation of new reserves to increase the value and efficacy of the protected areas network.
24055297|Hihi (Notiomystis cincta) were reintroduced to Mokoia Island, Lake Rotorua, New Zealand, in September 1994, and two years later there was an aerial drop of brodifacoum cereal pellets aimed to eradicate mice (Mus musculus). Using Program MARK, we analyzed data from resighting surveys to assess whether hihi had lower than normal survival in the 6-week interval following the drop. The resighting data were collected on a regular basis over a 3-year period, from 1994-97, allowing us to control for yearly and seasonal variation in resighting and survival probabilities. We initially established that the Cormack-Jolly-Seber model had a good fit to the data and could therefore be used as the global model for our analysis. We then compared a range of simpler candidate models, some of which included a poison effect (an unusual survival rate for the interval after the poison drop). Under the best model (that with the lowest AIC), the survival probability was constant over time and there was no poison effect. The estimated survival probability for the 6 weeks after the poison drop was 0.95, which is slightly higher than the value of 0.89 expected based on pre- and post-poison intervals. The approximate 95% confidence interval for the probability of a bird dying due to poison ranged from 0.17 (i.e., a decrease in mortality rate due to the poison) to +0.04. We therefore concluded that the poison caused at most a negligible increase in mortality, and that mark-recapture analysis on resighting data provided a powerful method for assessing the impact of the poison drop. We discuss the relative costs and benefits of radio tagging versus resighting surveys of banded birds for estimating impacts of poison operations. For species with relatively high resighting rates, such as hihi, analysis of resighting surveys is a much more reliable and cost-efficient methodology.
24060696|Despite periods of extensive government-funded control, fluctuating commercial exploitation and ongoing recreational hunting, little is known about how red deer (Cervus elaphus scoticus Lnnberg) in New Zealand respond to the cessation of harvesting in terms of population growth rate and resource use. We describe the population dynamics and resource use of red deer in a montane catchment over 5 years (196267) following cessation of intensive government-funded control in 1961. Locations and sexage classes of deer were observed monthly along a fixed route in the Harper-Avoca catchment, inland Canterbury. A total of 2036 red deer groups were observed. The number of groups observed annually increased during the study but no trends in median (2 or 3) or modal (1 or 2) group sizes were found. Population growth rates (r) of deer were extraordinarily high in the first two years (e.g. 2.33  0.22 for adult females and 1.61  0.23 for adult males), but decreased in subsequent years and were not biologically possible without substantial immigration and/or changes in detectability of deer. Sexual segregation and selection of vegetation types (alpine grassland, montane grassland, and forest) and 10 topographic landforms showed stronger intra-annual than inter-annual patterns. Segregation was greatest in spring and summer, least in the rut, and variable in winter. In all seasons, sexual segregation was greatest at 25- and 50-ha scales, moderate at 100-ha, and absent at the 500- and 1000-ha scales. Selection of vegetation types also varied seasonally, with deer of both sexes preferring montane grasslands in spring and summer and alpine grasslands in the rut. Backslopes were preferred landforms in spring and summer, spurs during spring and the rut, and hollows during the rut. Our results highlight the need to consider spatial scale, immigration, and detectability in the design of red deer culling and harvesting programmes. Studies of home-range size and use, migration patterns, dispersal rates and distances are required to better understand the impacts of red deer on New Zealand ecosystems and the effects of management on red deer populations.
24053245|New Zealand's forest plants evolved in the absence of mammalian herbivores, but subject to the attentions of a variety of other animals. Insects are and probably were, the primary folivores, but birds may also have been important. Several extinct birds, notably moas (Dinornithidae), were herbivores, and speculation continues about their impact on the vegetation. Among existing forest birds, both kereru (Hemiphaga novaeseelandiae) and kokako (Callaeas cinerea) can significantly defoliate plants and may have had a greater impact in the past. Beneficial interactions of birds with forest plants include pollination and seed dispersal. Flower visitation by birds has already been reviewed, but the importance of frugivory and seed dispersal by birds has hitherto been given scant regard in New Zealand. About 70% of the woody plants in New Zealand forests have fruits suited for vertebrate dispersal and, of these, most are probably dispersed by birds. The recent extinction of several frugivorous forest birds (e.g., moas, piopio Turnagra capensis, huia Heterolocha acutirostris) and the decline of others (e.g., kokako) has reduced the number of potential seed dispersers, especially for large-fruited species, some of which now depend almost entirely on kereru for seed dispersal. A similar recent loss of potential seed dispersers has occurred throughout Polynesia, but consequent effects on patterns of forest regeneration are unknown.
24053667|The rate of spread of mouse-ear hawkweed (Hieracium pilosella) patches, the effect of hawkweed on soil properties, and the nutrient content of hawkweed biomass was investigated on grazed unfertilised land on Glencairn Station (altitude 440 m, mean annual rainfall 500600 mm) in the Mackenzie basin, southern South Island, New Zealand. Pallic soils (Typic Ustochrepts) under hawkweed patches and under surrounding herbfield were analysed for exchangeable cations, organic C and total N. Total nutrients in hawkweed and herbfield biomass were measured. Previous results showing lower topsoil pH and more organic C under hawkweed than under herbfield were confirmed. Soils under hawkweed had higher values of exchangeable Ca and Mg than soils under herbfield. The hawkweed patches had 85% more biomass (herbage plus roots) per unit area than the surrounding herbfield, and hawkweed biomass contained about three times the Ca and K of the herbfield biomass. In each of two successive years hawkweed patches, which had initial diameters of 11.2 m, increased their diameter c. 13 cm by expanding into the "halo" of bare soil surrounding them. Mean patch area increase was 25% per year. The halo soil contains less organic C and total N and has lower total exchangeable cations values compared to soils under hawkweed and herbfield. The halo, which is underlain by hawkweed roots, appears to be a zone in which nutrients are depleted to the benefit of the hawkweed patches. As patches grow in size, the advantage that the inferred nutrient depletion in the halo confers on hawkweed patches will become limited to patch margins.
24054782|In poisoning operations, sublethal consumption of the toxin, can produce bait aversion. This decreases the effect of the poisoning and may create problems due to the presence of uneaten toxin in the environment. The use of new bait additives may prevent aversion development. Here I report the effects of two bait additives, corticosterone and mifepristone, in altering bait aversion development in rats exposed to the widely used poison, monofluoroacetate (1080). Corticosterone is a glucocorticoid hormone, released in response to stress. Mifepristone (Ru 38486), inhibits the actions of this hormone. Imposed stress as well as administration of corticosterone, decreased consumption. Concurrent administration of mifepristone prevented these decreases. Mifepristone in low doses increased aversion in stressed, but not unstressed rats. At high doses, mifepristone both increased consumption and decreased aversion in all rats following exposure to 1080. Administration of corticosterone also produced dose-dependent effects on aversion. At low doses in unstressed rats corticosterone, alone, increased aversion, while at high doses in all rats it decreased aversion. Stress, and the hormonal outcome of this state, may thus contribute to aversion by influencing both consumption and aversion development.
24054435|An account is given of the vegetation of Flat Top Hill, in the driest part of semi-arid lowland Central Otago, New Zealand. Although highly modified, the area was acquired for conservation in 1992, following almost 150 years of pastoral use. The vegetation was sampled in a composite scheme using permanent monitoring sites placed to include the majority of habitats and communities present. A number of environmental factors were measured in each sample. Native species comprise 53% of the vascular flora of the area (211 species). From multivariate analyses of the data collected over three seasons, fourteen 'communities' are recognised. Although there are few constant or faithful species, strong relationships are shown with certain environmental parameters. Moisture stress is the major environmental influence on the vegetation; soil depth and past disturbance are secondary determinants. The communities differ by a factor of 10 in vascular species richness; the richest communities, and those with the greatest native component, are those around rock tors. Many of the communities present have not been reported from other vegetation surveys in Central Otago Moisture stress at xeric sites in the dry core of the region has excluded some exotic species, and allowed the survival of the native component, including three tiny spring ephemerals. Near elimination of grazing, as a result of reservation, will probably lead to an increase in the cover of taller, palatable exotic grasses and Thymus vulgaris, which may threaten the survival of some native species. Optimum management, for recovery or persistence of native species, may comprise exclusion of grazers in some areas, but continuity of grazing in others.
24060615|Markrecapture methods were used to determine population abundance and life history of five grand (Oligosoma grande Scincidae) and two Otago (O. otagense) skink populations over 6 years at Macraes Flat, in southern New Zealand. The population ecology of declining and stable grand skink populations was contrasted and the life histories of grand and Otago skinks were compared. The life histories of both species were similar and characterised by slow maturity and longevity (35 and 46 years to produce first offspring and longevity up to 18 and 13.5 years in the wild; grand and Otago skinks respectively). With the exception of one grand skink population, all skink populations showed evidence of declines. Annual reproductive output (ARO) was estimated at 1.46 and 1.41 offspring per female per year (grand and Otago skinks respectively). These ARO values were markedly lower than those reported during a previous study at Macraes Flat during the same decade (2.17 and 2.34 respectively). The stable grand skink population excelled (relatively) in all life history traits measured: ARO of 1.66, 30% of newborns persisted 5+ years, adult survivorship averaged 0.84, and 36% of newborns were recruited to the adult population. In contrast, many of the declining populations were seriously deficient in one or more traits. This study raises concerns about the viability of small populations that have dropped below a critical size, beyond which one or multiple life history traits can act to further the decline. It is imperative that conservation managers of k-selected species move outside the 'improving adult survival' paradigm and begin to consider other potentially limiting population parameters.
24056282|Native kanuka (Kunzea ericoides) and adventive gorse (Ulex europaeus) stands aged 10-14 years, and not grazed by domestic stock, were studied near Nelson, New Zealand. The aim was to determine their use by introduced small mammals, and native and adventive birds, and the effects of these animals on seed rain and seedling dynamics as factors influencing vegetation succession. Seed traps were established where they could catch only bird-dispersed or wind-blown seed, and seedling emergence and growth were monitored. Bird abundance was estimated by five-minute bird counts, and small mammal abundance by trapping. The summed frequencies of all birds, and those likely to disperse seeds, were similar in kanuka and gorse. The endemic native bird species, bellbirds (Anthornis melanura) which are omnivorous, brown creepers (Mohoua novaeseelandiae) and grey warblers (Gerygone igata) which are insectivorous, were more frequent in kanuka than in gorse, while fantails (Rhipidura fuliginosa) were equally frequent in both stands. Non-endemic silvereyes (Zosterops lateralis) which are omnivorous were the most abundant seed-dispersing species, and they were significantly more frequent in gorse, as were adventive California quail (Callipepla californica) which are granivorous. Other small adventive granivores and omnivores were either more frequent in kanuka or gorse, or equally common in both stands. Ship rats (Rattus rattus) and possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) were in low numbers throughout. Mice (Mus domesticus) were more frequent in the gorse, probably because of the shelter offered by the dry gorse litter, and food supply, e.g. gorse seed. More seeds of native, fleshy-fruited shrubs fell in the kanuka, largely those of Coprosma spp. and Cyathodes juniperina, which grow in the kanuka. Seed species richness was similar in kanuka and gorse. In both cases, the seed rain appeared more influenced by the local seed source than by the different bird communities. In both kanuka and gorse, the relationship between seed rain and seedling numbers was close only for the most common fleshy-fruited species. Seedling emergence and survival was greater in gorse because of openings in the canopy, and the lower density of the introduced hares and rabbits. Overall, the different morphology and structure of the adventive gorse probably have the greatest influence in seedling dynamics, and ultimately on vegetation succession.
24052677|The continuing effects of red deer on the rain forest of Fiordland's Secretary Island (80 km2) over the last six years are described in relation to their initial impact and control operations. On easily accessible sites the range of affected species is increasing as the most palatable become depleted while some previously unmodified sites are now threatened. Photographic records, quantitative samples and permanent plots are used to describe still virgin stands and various levels of modification to the forest composition and structure, as well as to provide a basis for further monitoring.
24052700|The lesser short-tailed bat (Mystacina t. tuberculata) has been found in 18 locations in indigenous forest in North Island since 1961, mainly in Northland kauri forest (including Little Barrier Island), on the volcanic plateau (including Tongariro National Park), Urewera National Park and in Tararua Range. In South Island this bat has only been reported once since 1961, in North West Nelson Forest Park, and must be regarded as endangered. It is present also on Codfish Island, but is thought to have become extinct on Big South Cape and Solomon Islands about 1967. The greater short-tailed bat (Mystacina t. robusta) survived in historical times only on two rat-free islands off southwest Stewart Island, Big South Cape and Solomon Islands, where it was sympatric with the lesser short-tailed bat, until the ship rat (Rattus rattus) irruption in the early 1960s. Classified in the Red Data Book of New Zealand in the "indeterminate" category, this bat was last positively recorded in 1965 and is now believed to be extinct on its last two known refuges. The long-tailed bat (Chalinolobus tuberculatus) is widely distributed in a variety of indigenous and man-made habitats in both North and South Islands and is the only common species of bat in New Zealand. It is also found on Little Barrier Island, probably on Great Barrier Island, and is present on Kapiti Island and on the northeast corner of Stewart Island. A major advance of this survey over that reported by Dwyer in 1962 is that far more bat sightings and positively identified specimens are now available for analysis. This collection of distribution records now gives a clearer understanding of the distribution of the New Zealand bats than was possible in the earlier survey. Seasonal activity, roost sites, predation and competition for food by introduced rats, and the conservation status of the bat fauna, are discussed.
24054467|The relationship between fleshy-fruited indigenous species and adventive weeds in the diet of 500 mist-netted birds was studied in forest remnants of differing size and degree of modification. Fruit abundance peaked in March and April, and most fruit was either red/orange or purple/black. The physical parameters of adventive and indigenous fruits were not significantly different. Six of the 15 passerine species netted are frugivores, and of those netted 77% had eaten fruit. They were divisible into three groups: endemic (bellbirds, Anthornis melanura; tuis, Prosthemadera novaeseelandiae), non-endemic but indigenous (silvereyes, Zosterops lateralis), and adventive (blackbirds, Turdus merula; song thrushes, T. philomelos; starlings, Sturnus vulgaris). Bird diets varied between the groups and according to fruit availability as determined by sites and seasons. Endemic birds ate the least adventive fruit; bellbirds ate mainly Podocarpus hallii and Coprosma robusta fruits at all sites. Tuis had a varied diet, including some adventive fruits. Silvereyes ate the widest range of indigenous and adventive fruits. Blackbirds and, to a smaller extent, song thrushes ate many of the same indigenous fruits as the other bird groups, but their diet included more adventive fruits, e.g., Berberis glaucocarpa. Starlings were caught only when they fed on Sambucus nigra, but they also ate a few indigenous fruits. There was little seasonal variation in bird numbers caught. Adventive species extended the seasonal availability of fruits into winter, particularly in the forest remnant closest to a town, which had the highest proportion of adventive fruits. Several weed species distributed mainly by non-endemic and adventive birds are forming new secondary vegetation. Some have large fruit crops which generally offer little food for endemic birds. Where fruiting weeds pre-empt sites that may have been occupied by native species, they create an inferior habitat for endemic birds. However, the non-endemic and adventive birds also disperse indigenous fruits into early successional vegetation, and the importance of their seed rain for conservation of biodiversity will therefore depend on the site.
24052789|Mana Island (217 ha) provides opportunities for conservation despite over 150 years of farming. It is free from all introduced mammals except mice. It supports native coastal communities representative of the region and already has nationally threatened plants and animals. To take best advantage of these opportunities, it is suggested that: the present native plants, animals and communities are protected; part of the island is revegetated; selected species of threatened native plants and animals are introduced; and the island and its natural and human history are used for education, interpretation and recreational enjoyment. Attention is drawn to some unanswered questions and potential conflicts associated with these management proposals.
24052641|A consideration of the composition of bird diets, and the list of bird species found dead, indicates that most New Zealand land bird species risk being killed by feeding directly on baits poisoned with Compound 1080 or by eating poisoned prey. Theoretically, if a population of a species is heavily reduced, its ability, or inability, to recover can be predicted from a consideration of its reproductive and dispersal capacities. Species with poor reproductive potential and poor dispersal have a high risk of non-recovery, e.g., the three species of kiwi, the takahe, kakapo, laughing owl, bush wren, rock wren, fernbird, yellowhead, stitchbird, saddleback, kokako, and New Zealand thrush. Species with either poor reproduction or poor dispersal are medium risk species, e.g., the New Zealand falcon, weka, New Zealand pigeon, kaka, kea, the three species of parakeets, the morepork, rifleman, brown creeper, whitehead, and robin. Species with good reproductive and good dispersal capacities are low risk species, e.g., the Australasian harrier, pukeko, kingfisher, welcome swallow, New Zealand pipit, grey warbler, fantail, tit, silvereye, bellbird, and tui. The implications of this classification are discussed in relation to forest management practice.
24053564|The population dynamics of the Cape Royds rookery were modelled by computer, in order to determine the probable causes of the dramatic increase since 1980 in the numbers of Adelie penguins, Pygoscelis adeliae, breeding in the Ross Sea region, Antarctica. Variations in the extent of sea-ice around the rookery during incubation and chick rearing cannot feasibly explain the population increase and another factor or event must be introduced, which increases chick production per breeding pair and decreases adult mortality. The timing of the event is critical and rules out the cessation of human impacts or the depletion of competing baleen whales as causal factors. The event is seen as most probably the result of a recent warming of the Ross Sea climate.
24052009|The effects of pollution (nutrient enrichment) and the presence of macrovegetation on the species diversity and density of large benthic fauna in the Manukau Harbour, Auckland, were studied by sampling eight soft shore, intertidal habitats. Pollution was found to reduce faunal density but to have only a slight effect on species diversity. The presence of dense meadows of the intertidal seaweed Gracilaria secundata var. pseudoflagellifera did not appear to affect the community structure of the underlying large benthic fauna greatly. However, species diversity of large benthic fauna was higher on both eelgrass (Zostera muelleri) flats and in mangrove (Avicennia resinifera) forests than in comparable nonvegetated habitats. Presence of mangroves also increased faunal density whereas eelgrass flats showed a slight decrease in density in relation to comparable nonvegetated habitats.
24052669|Digital data collected by Landsat II satellite were used to produce a vegetation map of Mt Tarawera, Rotorua, New Zealand. The accuracy of this map, when checked in the field, varied for each class of vegetation; low stature and cover vegetation were more reliably classified than tall forest. The average probability of a resolution unit being correctly classified (with 95% confidence limits) was 65% when strict vegetation class definitions were used, and 88% when more flexible definitions were adopted.
24053732|The hypothesis that predation on eggs and chicks by ferrets (Mustela furo) and cats (Felis catus) was limiting the productivity of North Island weka (Gallirallus australis greyi), was tested by removing predators from the home ranges of four breeding pairs of weka. Reproduction by four other breeding pairs was monitored to provide a control. I was not able to follow the breeding success of some weka because they died or removed their radio transmitters. Two of the pairs breeding in predator-removal areas reared five chicks to independence, while two control pairs reared no chicks to independence after three breeding attempts. It was not possible to draw solid conclusions from group comparison data gained from so few individuals. Because it is necessary to identify the factors preventing weka recovery now, I suggest an alternative way to gather reliable data about rare species like weka. Single subject experimental designs like those developed in the social sciences offer an alternative route for investigating agents of decline in rare species; such a design would have been preferable to the one used in the present study. A common experimental procedure in single subject studies is the A-B-A series or some variant of it where A and B refer to experimental conditions with A being the control and B the treatment. Treatments are switched on and off for individuals (e.g., animals, or areas) which are considered representative of the study population. Well designed, replicated single subject studies might allow data to be used even after unplanned alterations to experimental conditions. The results of such studies would be cumulative, interpretable and more readily publishable. For some species all that may be required is a re-analysis of existing data.
24054530|The intermediate disturbance hypothesis has been the focus of considerable analysis in terrestrial and aquatic systems. This model predicts that species diversity will be highest at intermediate frequencies of disturbance. Despite numerous theoretical and empirical analyses, the utility of the model is still the subject of intense debate. Rather than developing restrictive time and space constraints on application, we suggest that the model may best be used as a generalizable framework for testing hypotheses in both aquatic and terrestrial systems. In addition, we believe that the model may be applied to both within- and between-patch scales. Finally, we propose an empirical model in which disturbance is an extinction causing event, and post-disturbance succession is modeled based on the dynamics of immigration and extinction. Such a model can incorporate a variety of patterns in species diversity in response to disturbance.
24054433|Descriptions of 247 forest stands at Waipoua Forest, Northland, were used to explore relationships between species richness (alpha-diversity) of the vascular flora and stand environmental characteristics, both in terms of total flora and within a number of the component synusiae. The Waipoua forests, with an average of 52 species per forest stand, are comparatively species-rich compared to other New Zealand forests. An ordination score (interpreted as expressing variation in soil fertility related to soil catenary sequences), altitude, and canopy height correlated most strongly with indices of species richness and species diversity, although different synusiae showed different trends. Models using these factors predicted that greatest total species richness and tree species richness would occur in tall forest on moderately infertile sites, but at high altitude for total richness and low altitude for tree richness. Epiphyte richness was highly correlated with altitude, with greatest richness in tall forest on sites at high altitude. Observations of highest total and tree richness at intermediate positions on some environmental gradients are consistent with the intermediate stress/disturbance hypothesis.
24052824|Mineral element concentrations are presented in leaf and bark material from six woody species growing at a single site on the subantarctic Auckland Islands. Foliar total mineral element concentrations range from 5.81% (Olearia lyallii) to 2.71% (Dracophyllum longifolium), the lowest concentrations occurring in slow growing species tolerant of nutrient-poor soils. The browse preference of introduced goats is correlated with high foliar potassium levels while species that are preferentially debarked (Pseudopanax simplex and Myrsine divaricata) have the highest bark calcium concentrations.
24053634|The impact of browsing by introduced brushtail possums on mixed beech - broadleaved forests in South Westland was estimated from the amount of conspicuous canopy dieback present in 1989-1990. Aerial and ground-based reconnaissance in all catchments indicated most canopies (84%) were intact. The remaining 16% of canopies were affected by conspicuous dieback, principally of southern rata (Metrosideros umbellata) and/or fuchsia (Fuchsia excorticata). Major dieback nuclei were located in the three areas with the longest history of browsing by possums, which had spread from three known liberation centres. At each dieback nucleus, the amount of dieback reflected the abundance of possum-preferred canopy species. Because South Westland forests contain lower proportions of such species, they are less susceptible to dieback than the conifer-broadleaved forests of central Westland. However, the present low amounts of dieback in South Westland mainly reflect low overall possum densities and a short period of occupation. The occurrence of key possum-preferred species indicates that about one-third of the forests could develop conspicuous canopy dieback if possum numbers increase and 44-94% are susceptible to canopy and/or understorey depletion. By 1992, the few areas selected for sustained possum control effort in Westland under-represented the range of forest composition. However, recently boosted funding for possum control has provided the opportunity to protect representative forest tracts before the onset of widespread ecosystem depletion in South Westland.
24058197|Flower predators (florivores) may affect plant reproduction directly through loss of pollen and ovules, or indirectly by deterring pollinators which avoid damaged flowers. Caterpillars of the widespread endemic moth Zelleria maculata feed inside flower buds of the endemic mistletoes Peraxilla tetrapetala and P. colensoi in New Zealand. We measured flower predation rates between 1995 and 2007 at 24 sites throughout New Zealand and assessed Zelleria feeding impact on fruit set. Zelleria predation showed a strong latitudinal gradient, being rare in the North Island but affecting 81% of flowers in 1996 at Waipori (Otago) and averaging > 38% at Waipori and Eglinton (Fiordland). The reasons for this pattern are unknown, but a wasp parasitoid of Zelleria, Campoplex sp. (Ichneumonidae), may be less common further south. Rates of Zelleria attack were higher in mistletoes growing several metres above ground and in less fragmented habitats (i.e. in shaded positions, and away from edges), and higher in P. tetrapetala than P. colensoi. An experiment following 1005 tagged P. tetrapetala flowers at two sites showed that Zelleria attack significantly reduces both pollinator-flower-opening rates (required for effective pollination) and fruit set rates. Zelleria attack increased the chance of a flower not being opened by pollinators from 11 to 37% at Ohau in 1996 (reducing fruit set from 28% to 7.9%) and flower non-opening from 6 to 30% at Craigieburn in 1995 (fruit set: 44.4% to 16.6%), representing reductions in fruit set of 72% and 63% at the two sites. Therefore, Zelleria reduces reproduction in Peraxilla spp. through both pollinator deterrence and direct loss of flowers at many sites. This could affect conservation of these mistletoes, which are seed-limited and in decline. However, Zelleria impact is reduced by its avoidance of edge habitat, as P. tetrapetala is more abundant and flowers more heavily on edges.
24056203|Melanic and non-melanic mountain stone weta Hemideina maori (Orthoptera: Anostostomatidae) from the Rock and Pillar Range exhibit differential rates of melanotic encapsulation, a response to the presence of pathogens within the body. Because pathogens normally enter the body via food contamination, we hypothesised that dietary differences between the colour morphs might exist. We used faecal pellet analysis to determine the diet of the mountain stone weta. We then tested for differences between the two colour morphs in overall diet composition and the proportional contribution of invertebrate fragments to faecal pellets. The number of invertebrate fragments to the diet did not differ between the two colour morphs. Only when the plant species that were eaten infrequently were given greater weight in an Analysis of Similarity (ANSOM) did significant differences emerge in the diet of the two colour morphs. Hence, there was a weak but significant difference in the overall composition of their diets, but the ecological significance of this difference is unclear. Experimental studies could be used to determine if the dietary differences shown reflect true feeding preferences, or were due to small-scale differences in food availability or stochastic variation.
24060721|This paper explores distribution patterns exhibited by New Zealand's freshwater fish fauna, both fossil and extant, and seeks to clarify processes that have generated these patterns. Knowledge of a Miocene New Zealand terrestrial/freshwater fossil fauna is based substantially on lacustrine deposits in Central Otago. It reflects an ecologically very different fauna from that known today. Nothing is known of the Miocene fluvial fauna. Present-day patterns of distribution and diversity reflect a deep ecological dichotomy. About half the fauna is diadromous, and the habit of these species, of moving to and from the sea, provides them with great resilience in the face of major known landscape perturbations resulting from orogeny and land submergence, glaciation and volcanism. The diadromous species tend to be widespread throughout New Zealand. In contrast, non-diadromous species are more strictly confined to freshwater habitats, and a major means of spread relates to changes in directions and connections of stream flows. As a result, species are much less resilient, they exhibit complex patterns of sympatry, and their ranges are much more localised. Despite all elements in the fauna living across the same landscape in space and time, distribution patterns of the varying species groups display great differences in pattern.
24060899|Urbanisation is a signigicant and increasing threat to biodiversity at the global scale. To maintain and restore urban biodiversity, local communities and organisations need information about how to modify green spaces to enhance species populations. 'Citizen science' initiatives monitoring the success of restoration activities also require simple and robust tools to collect meaningful data. Using an urban monitoring study of the bellbird (Anthornis melanura), we offer advice and guidance on best practice for such monitoring schemes. Three independent surveys were undertaken across 140 locations in Christchurch's urban parks. Detection probabilities (estimated from six repeat five-minute point counts at each location per survey) were used to calculate unbiased occupancy estimates for the second and third surveys. A single five-minute count had c. 60% chance of detecting bellbirds at a location where they were present, while the cumulative detection probability increased to almost one after five repeat counts per survey. Bellbird detection probabilities varied between surveys (albeit weakly) but not with environmental conditions. Occupancy, which declined slightly over the study period, was highest in parks with more native woody vegetation, less paved areas and close to the Port Hills (which were mostly Riverbank/Conservation parks). Robust estimates of bellbird occupancy require at least three repeat counts per location per survey within a short time frame, with multiple locations ideally surveyed concurrently.
24060812|Gender bias in the sciences is a prominent issue. Evidence suggests that more equal involvement of women in science, technology, engineering and mathematics fields leads to a diversity of working styles that can contribute to multiple measures of workplace success, such as better student outcomes in university settings and improved managerial approaches. One of the main ways we can combat gender bias is by increasing awareness. Thus, to directly draw attention to this issue for New Zealand ecologists, we performed a gender analysis of the publication process in the New Zealand Journal of Ecology (NZJE) for manuscripts reviewed between 2003 and 2012. First, we compared the frequencies of publication success between female and male authors. Second, we compared the frequencies of female and male reviewers selected by both female and male associate editors on the journal's editorial board from 2010 to 2012. Results show that publication success was not biased by gender, nor was it related to the gender of the editor. However, editors selected more male reviewers and this pattern was slightly more pronounced for male editors, suggesting that there is potential for at least some associate editors to reduce gender bias in their reviewer selections. We believe this will become easier with the development of the new reviewer database and mentoring scheme recently launched by the NZJE. It is important that publication of ecological research in New Zealand is unbiased so that the growing numbers of women in this field are not disadvantaged, and our results show that the NZJE is doing a good job at this. However, it is also important that women's contributions to the field are encouraged and recognised. We believe that reviewer selection is one way to enhance this and we strongly encourage early-career female ecologists to enrol in the NZJE mentoring scheme.
24056425|This study examined how forest edges influenced leaf and floral herbivory, as well as seed predation, in a native New Zealand mistletoe species, Alepis flavida. Plants growing on forest edges and in forest interior were compared, and effects of plant size and the neighbouring conspecific plant community were also examined. Leaf herbivory by possums was significantly greater on forest edges than in forest interior in a year of high possum damage, but not in a year with low damage levels. Insect leaf herbivory did not differ between forest edges and interior. Although equal numbers of plants on edges v. interior experienced some floral damage by a specialist caterpillar, there were significantly higher levels of damage on plants growing in the forest interior than on forest edges. Plants with floral damage were larger than plants without damage, and distance to neighbouring mistletoe plants was positively correlated with amount of floral damage, but only for plants in the interior. Significantly greater numbers of plants on edges than in the interior exhibited seed predation by the same specialist caterpillar that caused floral damage, suggesting greater fruit abortion rates in the interior. Amounts of seed damage were inversely correlated with plant size. Forest edges had much stronger effects on leaf herbivory by possums, as well as floral herbivory and seed predation, than did plant size or the neighbouring plant community.
24056439|Asian paper wasps reach very high densities in some areas of the far north of the North Island, and concerns about their impact on native biota have led to a search for potential control methods. We simulated the effects of kill-trapping adults by manually removing either 50% or 75% of adults from nests and comparing subsequent counts of adults and capped pupal cells with paired untreated nests. Five weeks after treatment, the 50% removal group had an average of c. 29% fewer wasps than the untreated group, while the 75% removal group had c. 34% fewer than the untreated group. The rate of growth of both the 50% and 75% treatment groups after manipulation was similar to the untreated nests. We conclude that trapping is unlikely to be viable as a control tool unless it can be targeted at early-season queens, and that other options are better pursued at this stage.
24054775|The field use of brodifacoum baits (Talon and Pestoff) to control brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) has increased in recent years. This has raised concerns of secondary and tertiary poisoning, resulting from the transfer of this toxicant through the food chain. In New Zealand, feral pigs (Sus scrofa) are known to scavenge possum carcasses and may also gain access to bait stations containing possum baits. We have determined the concentrations of brodifacoum in muscle and liver tissue from captive pigs after primary and secondary poisoning. Highest concentrations were found in the liver. Pigs eating 500 to 1776 g of brodifacoum bait containing 20 mg kg1 had muscle concentrations ranging from 0.02 to 0.07 mg kg1 and liver concentrations ranging from 0.72 to 1.38 mg kg1. Both appeared to be independent of the amount of bait eaten. Possums fed 400 g of bait had similar liver concentrations (0.521.20 mg kg1). Pigs that had eaten the soft tissue from eight poisoned possums had brodifacoum concentrations of 0.32 to 0.80 mg kg1 present in the liver and the concentration increased in a dose-dependent manner. Brodifacoum was detected in muscle from only one of these animals. In a preliminary field survey, 11 of 21 wild pigs sampled from areas where possum control had been undertaken were contaminated with brodifacoum concentrations in the liver ranging from 0.007 to 1.7 mg kg1. In view of the potential impact on pig hunters and dogs consuming wild pig meat and offal, some restrictions on the wide-scale field use of brodifacoum baits appears to be warranted.
24060768|Palynological analysis of coprolites (preserved dung) can reveal detailed information on the diets and habitats of extinct species. Here, we present pollen assemblages from coprolites of the extinct heavy-footed moa (Pachyornis elephantopus) and coastal moa (Euryapteryx curtus) from the Central Otago region of the South Island, New Zealand. The data complement previous macrofossil (seed and leaf) analyses of the same specimens, and reinforce the interpretation that both species had generalist feeding ecologies. The pollen results reveal a broader selection of plant taxa consumed by both bird species than macrofossils alone, which has helped to discriminate between the predominantly grazing habit of the heavy-footed moa and the browsing habit of the coastal moa.
24053186|The horn length of male thar (Hemitragus jemlahicus) increased significantly with age, especially from birth to 5 years. Age, time of year, and body weight all influenced adult male horn length, but locality did not. Fewer than 1% of males produced horns of sufficient length to qualify as hunting trophies.
24054458|Feral horses (Equus caballus L.) occupy 64 000 ha of montane-subalpine tussock grassland in the south-western Kaimanawa Mountains, an area zoned for military training. Since 1979, the population has increased at 16.7% per annum, reaching 1102 in 1990. The most extensive habitat, red tussock (Chionochloa rubra) grassland, was variably affected by horses; tussocks in restricted mesic sites were heavily grazed and mostly eliminated, but those in extensive xeric grasslands showed little impact. The mixed hard tussock (Festuca novae-zelandiae)/red tussock grasslands on basin floors and plateaux, which had already been degraded by early European farming, were suffering further depletion from horse grazing. The restricted, high altitude Chionochloa pallens tussock communities were being eliminated rapidly through preferential grazing. Oligotrophic bogs, on the summits and basin floors were largely intact, whereas high nutrient flushes were severely affected by trampling and grazing. Horses appeared to have had little impact upon Nothofagus forest understoreys. Ten plant species, several of which are vulnerable nationally, occur in the North Island only within the wild horse range. The habitats of five of them were damaged by horses. Throughout the wide basins and plateaux of the north, horses compromised floristic, rare plant habitat, and landscape nature conservation values. Their numbers may therefore have to be controlled.
24052764|The flowering periodicity and intensity of some subalpine trees and shrubs at Pegleg Flat, Arthur's Pass National Park, was recorded from 1981/82 to 1984/85. Moderate to heavy flowering of most species in 1981/82 was followed by two years of little or no flowering in 1982/83 and 1983/84; almost all species observed flowered heavily in 1984/85. No clear correlation was found between flowering intensity and mean summer temperatures of the previous growing season, when flower buds were initiated. It is suggested that the extent of flower bud initiation may also depend on current carbohydrate and mineral nutrient levels in the plants, which are temporarily depleted after mass-flowering years. The observed 3-year cycle of heavy flowering coincides with previous records for many other New Zealand trees and shrubs.
24054686|The seasonal variation in possum browse and foliage cover of five possum-preferred species was quantified and studied in northern Westland, New Zealand over a 24 month period. Four of the five species (Pseudopanax simplex, P. colensoi, Aristotelia serrata, and Elaeocarpus hookerianus) showed marked seasonal patterns in both browse and foliage cover, with maximum browse evident in winter/spring when foliage cover was at a minimum. There was very little browse and no seasonal pattern in foliage cover for the fifth species, Pseudopanax crassifolius. In the season of maximum browse there were significant negative correlations between browse and foliage cover for the four impacted species suggesting that the changes in foliage cover were caused by possum browsing. Mortality was highest in the two most heavily browsed species (P. simplex and P. colensoi). This seasonality in possum browse needs to be accommodated when designing long-term surveys of possum impacts.
24056200|This study examined whether the diversity and relative abundance of ground-dwelling invertebrates changed in relation to type of vegetation cover. Invertebrate taxon diversity and relative abundance were assessed with pitfall traps placed under the native shrubs Olearia bullata and Coprosma propinqua, and in surrounding patches of exotic pasture. A total of 1935 invertebrates and at least 152 invertebrate taxa were recorded from 49 pitfall traps. The number of native taxa was c.63% of all taxa recorded, whereas exotic invertebrates represented only c.9%. The other c.28% were of undetermined origin. Taxon richness and relative abundance under the two shrub species were statistically similar, although all mean values (except for Coleoptera) were higher for traps set beneath C. propinqua. In contrast, taxon richness and relative abundance were significantly higher in the exotic pasture than under either of the shrub species. The same pattern was evident for exotic invertebrates and the relative abundance of native invertebrates, and for some of the most speciose orders. The data indicate that nearly half of native taxa occurred only under native shrubs. In contrast, 7 out of 12 exotic species were found in all three vegetation types, and all but one of them were recorded at least in exotic pasture. We conclude that the value of locally-modified and patchy vegetation cannot be underestimated for its potential in providing native biodiversity reservoirs for New Zealand's native invertebrate fauna.
24053253|The responses of rain-forest vegetation on Secretary Island (Fiordland National Park) which was subjected to low but sustained browsing by red deer, are compared with those of the full range of mountain vegetation in Mt Aspiring National Park where deer numbers had been reduced substantially from previously high numbers. On Secretary Island the most palatable species have continued to decline  Woody plants are debarked by chewing or antler rubbing, and herbs are grazed. Accessible parts of palatable trees and shrubs continue to be heavily browsed, while stems of some species continue to be distorted because lateral buds substitute for removed terminal shoots. Some unpalatable species have increased. In Mt Aspiring National Park, marked sites in five major vegetation types were assessed three times during 1970-1986 when deer numbers were kept low. The order of increasing recovery of communities has been: high-alpine fellfields and snowbanks through forests, subalpine shrublands, valley grasslands and low-alpine snow tussock grasslands. In the last, midribbed snow tussock grassland and many associated species recovered dramatically whereas previously prominent unpalatable or tolerant species have become less conspicuous. Vegetation has not yet stabilised in either Park. Possible future trends are evaluated in relation to changing management. For Secretary Island these include more effective lures with improved 1080 poison gel formulation; for Mt Aspiring a continuing decline in the commercial return from hunting
24054551|The distribution of the indigenous New Zealand megascolecid earthworm Octochaetus multiporus (Beddard) in hill pastures of different fertilities in the southern North Island of New Zealand, and the population density throughout a year are described. Octochaetus multiporus was most numerous in soils of low to moderate fertility. High fertility soils had a similar population density to that of an adjacent area of native forest, indicating that the exotic pasture environment can favour Octochaetus multiporus in some circumstances. Population density of Octochaetus multiporus was best correlated with soils which were moist in summer. There was no well defined breeding season for this species, mature and recently hatched individuals being found in most months of the year. Octochaetus multiporus is a deeper burrowing indigenous earthworm species which is successful in an exotic environment. In pastures which have moist soils in summer, this species may be improving soil structure and root penetration in the absence of deep burrowing introduced lumbricid earthworms.
24058182|Vegetation was sampled in kahikatea (Dacrycarpus dacrydioides)-dominant forest fragments having different recovery periods since grazing ceased in the Waikato region, North Island, New Zealand. Changes in vegetation were modeled against recovery periods ranging from 074 y and in relation to position within fragment (edge or interior). Indigenous plant species richness increased and adventive plant species (mostly pasture herbs) richness declined with increasing recovery period; small tree and sapling density and seedling ground cover increased. Fragment edges had higher adventive species richness, lower basal area, more established seedlings, lower litter cover and higher grass ground cover, than interior plots. Some indigenous species (e.g. Laurelia novaezealandiae and Myrsine australis) increased with recovery period while some adventive species (e.g. Solanum pseudocapsicum) declined. The relative basal area of Alectryon excelsus increased significantly with recovery period at edges, and that of Melicytus ramiflorus everywhere. Twenty years represents a turning point in the recovery period, with the end of the loss phase of adventive pasture species, the start of the re-establishment phase of indigenous ground layer and understorey species, and significant recovery of population structures of major species. In relatively non-weedy rural environments, retirement from grazing may be sufficient to ensure a return to near-natural states in 4050 y.
24052710|Adele (87 ha) and Fisherman (3.6 ha) Islands lie 800 m and 1100 m, respectively, offshore in Tasman Bay, Nelson. Both are covered predominantly in native forest and scrub. There are mice (Mus musculus) on Adele Island but no rodents on Fisherman Island. Both islands are within swimming range of stoats (Mustela erminea) which have colonised Adele Island and occasionally visit Fisherman Island, 700 m distant. Fourteen stoats were trapped on Adele Island between August 1980 and February 1981. Continued trapping (12637 additional trap-nights) up to August 1983 caught only four more, but stoat tracks were still occasionally being found on the islands' sandy beaches. At their original density of about one per 9 ha stoats were readily reduced to low numbers by trapping, but on Adele Island colonisation apparently continued at the rate of one or two stoats per year. Twenty-six New Zealand offshore islands are now known to have been colonised or visited by stoats, and many others closer than 1200 m from a stoat-infested shore are considered likely to have stoats or to be within reach of them.
24052823|Shoot growth was studied in 2 to 3 year old seedlings of 56 provenances of black, mountain, red, and silver beech. Differences between provenances within species groups were smaller than differences between species. Latitudinal variations occurred in the growth of silver beech provenances, but the altitudinal variation in mountain beech provenances reported earlier for younger seedlings was found not to be significant here. Genetic differences detectable between provenances in younger plants may become obscured by the later influence of local environmental factors as plants mature. Temperature but not rainfall was positively correlated with the rate of shoot growth. Red and silver beech provenances were the most susceptible to frost and mountain beech to grass grub beetle attacks.
24056345|We used outputs from a model of canopy carbon uptake [Dungan et al. (2004) Functional Ecology 18: 3442] and measurements of irradiance (PAR, 400700 nm) intercepted by the canopy to investigate the effect of daily changes in environmental conditions on daily light use efficiency, , for a canopy comprising two broadleaved New Zealand tree species with contrasting leaf habit. Irradiance absorbed by the canopy was 93% of the incident irradiance, and seasonal changes in the proportion of this absorbed by leaves of each species was estimated with a detailed model of leaf area phenology. Over the year,  for semi-deciduous wineberry (Aristotelia serrata) was 0.43 g C MJ1 PAR, with maximum and minimum values of 0.80 g C MJ1 PAR and 0.07 g C MJ1 PAR in summer and winter respectively. In contrast annual  was 0.60 g C MJ1 PAR for winter deciduous fuchsia, with a maximum value of 0.92 g C MJ1 PAR in spring. The most important environmental regulator of  for both species was , atmospheric transmissivity. Maximum values for  were estimated on days when  0.2, on cloudy days in mid-summer. Limits to photosynthesis from restricted root-zone water availability were also important, showing that drought limitations can restrict  even at a field site with annual rainfall of 4800 mm. Environmental limits to photosynthesis and  have been investigated for only a few canopy tree species. Uncertainty in models of the national carbon budget required for reporting purposes would be reduced by considering the environmental regulation of  for a wider range of tree species.
24060756|Robust and reliable information is required to measure impacts of aerial 1080 operations on non-target bird species. We examined the impact on seven forest bird species of an aerial pest control operation using 1080 cereal baits to poison possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) within Waitutu Forest, Fiordland National Park. The survival of South Island kaka (Nestor m. meridionalis) and ruru (Ninox novaeseelandiae) was monitored using radio telemetry, and replicated bird counts within and external to the operational area were used to monitor changes in numbers of grey warblers (Gerygone igata), kaka, kereru (Hemiphaga novaeseelandiae), riflemen (Acanthisitta chloris), robins (Petroica australis) and tomtits (P. macrocephala). All radio-tagged kaka known to be present within the operational area prior to the application of toxic baits (n = 15) were alive 6 months later. None of the 11 radio-tagged ruru present during the operation died from 1080 poisoning. One ruru found dead (cached in a hole) following the application of toxic baits was tested for the presence of 1080, and none was found. It is likely that this bird was killed or scavenged by a predator. Transect counts of tomtits and grey warblers provided the largest sample sizes and most interpretable results. There was no evidence of any negative impact of 1080 for these species. Similarly, independent measures from point counts conducted annually since 2006 at two locations within the operational area also failed to highlight any declines in distribution or relative abundance attributable to the application of 1080 baits for six of the bird species monitored. We recommend (1) further pest control operations within the Waitutu area to prevent further deterioration in diversity and size of bird populations and (2) the continuation of monitoring programmes capable of assessing direction and rates of change in key demographic parameters for the bird populations living there.
24054772|In Britain, the use of "second-generation" rodenticides has become widespread on agricultural premises. The high toxicity and relatively long half-lives of these compounds has raised concerns over potential secondary exposure and poisoning of non-target predators. Over the last 15 years, exposure has been extensively documented in the barn owl Tyto alba but relatively little is known about mammalian terrestrial predators. This paper reviews recent studies and demonstrates that there is evidence of both secondary exposure and secondary poisoning in a variety of non-target, terrestrial mammals in Britain. It also presents new data on rodenticide levels in the polecat Mustela putorius which preys on farmyard rats in winter in Britain and is, therefore, considered to be highly vulnerable to exposure to rodenticides. The new data demonstrated that 26% of polecats in the sample contained difenacoum or bromadiolone and that exposure was geographically widespread and occurred in several years. The possible effects of secondary exposure on populations of polecats and other predators are discussed.
24060735|The endangered grand skink (Oligosoma grande) is a New Zealand endemic lizard that persists as metapopulations occupying rock patches within matrices of mixed native vegetation and modified agricultural pasture. Parameterisation of metapopulation models applied in conservation biology assumes complete detectability of target species. Incomplete detectability may result in underestimates of occupancy and biased estimates of extinction and colonisation rates. Recent techniques use multiple surveys of sampling sites to model detectability and derive robust estimates of occupancy, and extinction and colonisation rates. Five years (19982002) of presence/absence survey data were analysed to determine grand skink site occupancy and estimate colonisation and extinction rates. Mean site occupancy was 0.38 (SE 0.07), compared with a nave estimate of 0.29. Occupancy, extinction and colonisation probabilities were habitat specific, varying according to tussock or a modified pasture matrix. Colonisation probability was higher in tussock than in pasture, whereas extinction probability was higher in pasture. Derived model-averaged estimates showed that occupancy was higher in tussock (range 0.515(0.02)  0.532 (0.02)) than in pasture (range 0.226 (0.03)  0.234 (0.01)), with a slight trend of decline in pasture areas and increase in tussock areas over time, with the result that overall occupancy has been reasonably static over the 5 years. Detectability varied interannually, ranging from 0.63 to 0.83. The difference between the nave occupancy estimate and the model-averaged estimate highlights the importance of deriving robust estimates of metapopulation parameters that take incomplete detectability into account. Unbiased estimates allow managers to predict and track responses to management interventions.
24054520|Biological invasions are a widespread and significant component of human-caused global environmental change. The extent of invasions of oceanic islands, and their consequences for native biological diversity, have long been recognized. However, invasions of continental regions also are substantial. For example, more than 2,000 species of alien plants are established in the continental United States. These invasions represent a human-caused breakdown of the regional distinctiveness of Earth's flora and fauna - a substantial global change in and of itself. Moreover, there are well-documented examples of invading species that degrade human health and wealth, alter the structure and functioning of otherwise undisturbed ecosystems, and/or threaten native biological diversity. Invasions also interact synergistically with other components of global change, notably land use change. People and institutions working to understand, prevent, and control invasions are carrying out some of the most important - and potentially most effective - work on global environmental change.
24058143|Introduced mammalian predators threaten populations of endemic New Zealand lizards but their effects on lizard populations have not been quantified on the mainland. We trialled the use of artificial cover objects (ACOs) for sampling small terrestrial lizards (the skinks Oligosoma maccanni, O. nigriplantare polychroma and O. inconspicuum, and gecko Hoplodactylus maculatus) in three experimental mammal-management treatments: a mammal-proof fence, two sites in an intensive mammal-removal area, and an experimental control site with no mammal removal. These predator control regimes were established in 20052006 to protect endangered grand skinks (O. grande) and Otago skinks (O. otagense) at Macraes Flat, North Otago. We (1) counted skinks and geckos found under ACOs on a single day and compared these counts between treatments, and (2) estimated lizard population sizes (N) based on capture-mark-recapture (CMR) of lizards under ACOs in daily and weekly sampling sessions. Our results provide baseline data of the abundance of the small lizard species shortly after implementation of predator management. Single-day counts of skinks were significantly higher inside the mammal fence compared with the experimental control. No consistent differences were found between the other treatments. Significantly more skinks were counted in gully habitats than in ridge habitats. $\hat{N}$, counts of skinks from the first day of CMR, and the total number of individuals caught were correlated, but these relationships must be validated with independent data. Few geckos were caught unless ACOs were placed near rock outcrops. Only two skinks but 25% of geckos moved between adjacent ACOs (5-m spacing). The recapture rate of skinks was low; captures declined when ACOs were checked daily but not when they were checked weekly. Because of potential biases of these methods, we propose to compare counts in ACOs and $\hat{N}$ based on CMR in ACOs with $\hat{N}$ based on CMR in pitfall traps with 3-m spacing.
24060716|New Zealand's offshore and outlying islands have long been a focus of conservation biology as sites of local endemism and as last refuges for many species. During the c. 730 years since New Zealand has been settled by people, mammalian predators have invaded many islands and caused local and global extinctions. New Zealand has led international efforts in island restoration. By the late 1980s, translocations of threatened birds to predator-free islands were well under way to safeguard against extinction. Non-native herbivores and predators, such as goats and cats, had been eradicated from some islands. A significant development in island restoration in the mid-1980s was the eradication of rats from small forested islands. This eradication technology has been refined and currently at least 65 islands, including large and remote Campbell (11 216 ha) and Raoul (2938 ha) Islands, have been successfully cleared of rats. Many of New Zealand's offshore islands, especially those without predatory mammals, are home to large numbers of breeding seabirds. Seabirds influence ecosystem processes on islands by enhancing soil fertility and through soil disturbance by burrowing. Predators, especially rats, alter ecosystem processes and cause population reductions or extinctions of native animals and plants. Islands have been promoted as touchstones of a primaeval New Zealand, but we are now increasingly aware that most islands have been substantially modified since human settlement of New Zealand. Archaeological and palaeoecological investigations, together with the acknowledgement that many islands have been important mahinga kai (sources of food) for Mori, have all led to a better understanding of how people have modified these islands. Restoration technology may have vaulted ahead of our ability to predict the ecosystem consequences of its application on islands. However, research is now being directed to help make better decisions about restoration and management of islands, decisions that take account of island history and key drivers of island ecosystem functioning.
24055337|To measure the costs and benefits of an aerial 1080 possum control operation to kereru and kaka in Whirinaki Forest Park, individuals of both species were radio-tagged from October 1998 to June 2002. We monitored birds in one treatment and one non-treatment study area to compare toxin-related mortality, nesting success and survival. The poison operation involved the spreading of non-toxic carrot baits on 1 May 2000, and the toxic baits on 17/18 May 2000. Possums and rats were moderately abundant in both study areas prior to the poison operation, but afterwards few possums and rats remained in the treatment area. All radio-tagged kaka and kereru in the treatment area survived the poison operation. No radio-tagged kereru and too few radio-tagged kaka bred in either study area during the 2000/01 nesting season to show whether reduced possum and rat populations would enable the birds to nest more successfully. A reduction in possum and rat densities in the non-treatment area (and an increase in densities in the treatment area) during 2001/02 meant that during the second nesting season after the poison operation, possum and rat densities were similar in the two study areas. The nesting effort and success of kaka and kereru is described for each of four nesting seasons, with the main cause of nesting failure for both species being predation. While no radio-tagged adult male kaka died during the study, 6 females did, giving them a mean life expectancy of 9.5 years. In contrast, radio-tagged adult kereru suffered high mortality, resulting in a mean life expectancy of just 1.5 years. Predation by introduced mammalian predators was the main cause of mortality of kaka eggs, chicks, fledglings and adult females, and of kereru eggs, chicks, fledglings and adults. Effective control of introduced mammalian predators, including control by aerial 1080 operations, just before mast fruiting events that invariably promote prolific kaka and kereru breeding, should benefit these bird populations.
24058212|The mountain stone weta Hemideina maori, a tree weta, is a cold-adapted New Zealand insect that shows increasing body size with increasing altitude and decreasing temperature. This study modelled the monthly survival probability of adult weta at three sites (high, medium and low altitude) in the Rock and Pillar Range, Otago. Survival was predicted to be lowest at the low elevation site where weta are at the lower limit of their current altitudinal range. A total of 504 adult weta were marked and released at all three sites between November 1999 and May 2002. Mark-recapture analysis showed that survival varied over time, being lowest during the summer months. Survival also differed between the sexes, with females having a higher probability of survival than males, but there was no difference in survival between altitudes. Our findings that body size varied significantly with elevation but that survival was similar between sites, suggest that body size at each altitude might be adapted to the local environment. It would be of interest in a longer term study to model survival of Hemideina maori as a function of variation in average summer temperatures, to test predictions about the effects of climate change on populations of alpine ectothermic animals.
24060840|'Microbranding', a system for individually identifying reptiles and amphibians based on a numbered code of spot brands applied to the body and limbs, was tested on New Zealand skinks and geckos. Common geckos (Woodworthia maculata) and copper skinks (Oligosoma aeneum) were used as test animals. Brands applied in autumn took 3 months or more to heal. There was no evidence of brand-related mortality or increased parasite loads in branded animals. However, after healing the brands faded very rapidly in the skinks to become totally unreadable in all surviving branded skinks after 2.5 years and not accurately readable in most geckos after 3 years. We therefore consider the technique unsuitable as a standard marking procedure for New Zealand lizards.
24060846|Spatial pattern plays an influential role in the ecological processes of ecosystems, and landscape pattern metrics computed from remotely sensed data offer a way to quantify the correlation between pattern and process. However, the resolution of geographic data affects the landscape metrics obtained from a GIS, with consequent implications for the interpretation of biological effects studied at landscape scales. Here, we studied the effect of data resolution on estimates of three metrics of forest cover commonly used in the landscape ecology literature: percent forest cover, forest edge density, and mean fractal dimension of forest patches. Estimates of each metric were computed for six landscapes (30  30 km) in the North Island of New Zealand at 10 different data resolutions with pixels ranging from 30 to 1000 m. All three metrics exhibited significant changes in value as a result of changing resolution, and the sensitivity of the fragmentation metrics to data resolution was impacted in a non-linear manner by the amount of forest cover in a landscape. In landscapes with low forest cover, changing pixel size altered estimates of percent forest cover by as much as 75%. Extrapolation to correct for effects of changing resolution and different landscapes seems a likely solution in the case of some, but not all, metrics. The scaling problem hinders efforts to correlate spatial pattern with ecosystem process and the subsequent conclusions concerning biodiversity and conservation policy.
24055345|There is a lack of comprehensive and consistent information to inform policy makers about the status of New Zealand's forest biodiversity. Three reasons for collecting such information are: assessing the effectiveness of management, reporting on the status of biodiversity under national and international requirements, and improving our knowledge of ecosystem dynamics for designing effective management systems. The challenge is to design monitoring systems that address these multiple needs simultaneously, and at a range of spatial and temporal scales. This article first considers principles for designing enduring monitoring systems based on past experiences, assessing how effectively these principles were implemented in designing New Zealand's Carbon Monitoring System (CMS), and finally, suggesting future directions for forest biodiversity monitoring in New Zealand. At a national scale we support an unbiased, systematic sample of forests as implemented in several countries (e.g. Austria and the U.S.A.). We consider it best practice to monitor shifts in the fundamental compositional, structural and functional characteristics of ecosystems and use these to derive indicators. We suggest forest biodiversity indicators should include forest area and spatial arrangement, tree mortality and recruitment, exotic weeds, introduced herbivore impacts, and woody debris. Principles discussed in this paper are relevant to biodiversity monitoring in a wider range of ecosystems than forests. Without spatially extensive, robustly designed, biodiversity monitoring systems, New Zealand will remain in a relatively weak position nationally, and internationally, to report on the effectiveness of biodiversity conservation.
24053641|The success of studies of change in South Island tussock grasslands can be assessed indirectly by the form in which their results are presented scientific paper, institutional bulletin, popular publication, conference proceedings, unpublished report, or not at all. Studies often fall short of their potential to increase understanding of the effects of natural processes or management: the results of many simply never reach either the authority that commissioned them or the public in general. The application of some general principles to the definition of objectives and choice of methods could considerably enhance the success of such studies.
24058109|Loss of indigenous habitat is a key factor in the decline of New Zealand's biodiversity. A recent contribution by Walker et al. (2006, New Zealand Journal of Ecology 30: 169177) described losses of indigenous vegetation between 1996/97 and 2001/02 (some 17 000 ha) based on an analysis of changes in the Land Cover Database, LCDB1 and LCDB2, respectively. We agree that the general approach of using these and other spatial datasets appears to be appropriate to investigate changes in land cover and the types of land uses that are responsible, but we would like to offer some comments to aid with the interpretation of this and other studies that use LCDB comparisons and similar techniques. Using aerial photography, satellite imagery, site visits, and other methods, we evaluated a stratified sample of 67 of the 449 polygons that were indicated to have changed from the most affected indigenous classes ('Tall Tussock Grassland', 'Manuka and/or Kanuka', and 'Broadleaved Indigenous Hardwoods') to the exotic forest classes 'Afforestation (not imaged)' and 'Afforestation (imaged, post LCDB1)'. Our assessment of the entire area of each of these polygons covered 56.6% of the total area that was identified to have changed, and this revealed an error rate of c. 70% for this particular comparison of LCDB1 and LCDB2 data. This indicates the accuracy of such analyses may be too low to be meaningful and requires verification of the data that are primarily based on remote sensing, even when the overall aggregate accuracy is very high. In addition, we comment on the relative merits of different land uses in relation to the conservation of indigenous biodiversity, particularly the contributions of low-producing exotic grassland and exotic plantation forests. This is important because much indigenous biodiversity remains in exotic forests and embedded indigenous remnants, and the current clearing of potentially over 100 000 ha of such land for exotic pasture will cause significant losses of indigenous biodiversity.
24060810|Invasive house mice (Mus musculus) have detrimental effects on biodiversity, but their impacts can be difficult to detect and are often unquantified. We measured their effects on survival of a translocated population of an endangered lizard in New Zealand. Twelve captive-reared Otago skinks (Oligosoma otagense) were translocated to a 0.3-ha area of grassland/shrubland cleared of invasive mammals and surrounded by a mammal-resistant fence. Sixteen more skinks were released 2 years later but this was followed by an incursion of mice for c. 160 days. Peak mouse density was at least 63 per hectare, and they were seen attacking adult skinks (> 25 cm in length), which is previously undocumented for this lizard species. Using photo/re-sight methods and Program MARK, we estimated skink survival (phi) and detectability (p) in the presence of mice (second cohort: phi = 0.15 per annum, 95% Confidence Interval (CI) 0.01  0.48; p = 0.28, 0.20  0.38) and their absence (first cohort: phi = 0.44 p.a., 95% CI 0.03  0.82; p = 0.29, 0.22  0.39). Survival of skinks from the first cohort during the mouse incursion was unaffected, presumably because they were already established and had access to familiar or more optimal refugia. Their survival over the entire 3 years of monitoring (0.83, 95% CI 0.600.93) compared favourably with published estimates for viable populations in the wild, protected from all invasive mammals. This suggests it may be feasible to re-establish captive-reared lizards in the wild, but mice should be considered a limiting factor, at least during the initial translocation phase.
24052008|The distribution of sheep was monitored for three years on part of an unimproved high-country summer range composed of several land units with different phases of degraded tall tussock and short tussock grassland. Sheep distribution was found to be non-random and to vary seasonally. Available dry matter and water content of inter-tussock vegetation were monitored on well vegetated land units for one season. The sheep tended to move from the study area as the available inter-tussock herbage matured and declined in water content and quantity, up to mid-January. Those sheep remaining on the study area and additional sheep liberated onto the range in late February tended to show an increased preference for a damper area and an adjacent land unit. Factors apparently influencing this behaviour are discussed. The proportion of daylight hours the sheep spent grazing was consistently high but with an apparent decline in autumn.
24053312|Volcanic activity has damaged or destroyed at least 20,000 ha of indigenous vegetation in the North Island in the last 450 years. The primary and secondary successions initiated are discussed and considered in relation to some recently proposed models of succession. Most of the variation relates to the scale and intensity of disturbance, and the type and heterogeneity of the substrate emplaced. Where disturbance has been extensive and severe, elements of slow 'classical' successions, from lichens and mosses to flowering plants, and facilitation by nitrogen-fixers such as Coriaria spp., are evident. In contrast, minor disturbance results in vegetative regrowth or regeneration of surviving species. Heterogeneity of substrate enables many taxonomic plant groups to establish more or less concurrently. Partial disturbance successions are not easily categorised and may contain elements of several successional models. The resource-ratio hypothesis of succession can be used to explain the general pattern of the volcanic successions outlined. Insufficient information, of the type suggested necessary by recent authors, is available to make detailed accurate predictions in respect of future volcanically-initiated successions. Recent volcanism has had a major influence on species distribution and vegetation patterns in the North Island.
24052732|The flora and vegetation of the four high domes of Mt Tarawera; Ruawahia, Tarawera, Wahanga and Plateau, are described, and successional rates and trends determined at some sites by comparing 1964 and present-day photographs and records. Although below the regional tree limit, the dome tops are dominated by scattered low shrubs, herbs, grasses, mosses and lichens. With increasing distance from the 1886 eruption craters vegetation complexity and rates of succession increase. Plateau dome vegetation is successionally the most advanced. In the last 18 years tutu (Coriaria arborea) has spread from adjoining valleys on to the dome crests and is now invading the remaining dome top vegetation. The flora of the high domes has increased since 1964 and a high proportion of the additional species are adventives. Adventive conifers are becoming increasingly abundant on the dome tops and may modify the natural succession which is to kamahi (Weinmannia racemosa)-broadleaf (Griselinia littoralis) forest.
24052727|Tree trunks are important links between the forest floor and canopy, especially for flightless invertebrates that move from the forest floor to feed or breed in the canopy. Traps were used to sample invertebrates moving up and down on mahoe (Melicytus ramiflorus), hinau (Elaeocarpus dentatus), hard beech (Nothofagus truncata), and kamahi (Weinmannia racemosa). In 19 months 22 696 invertebrates were collected. Many unexpected groups e.g. ground wetas, ground beetles, some caterpillars, amphipods, spring-tails, mites, peripatus, and earthworms were caught in up-traps 1.5 m above ground. Overall, up-traps caught more (80%) invertebrates than down-traps (20%) and 16 of 29 groups of invertebrates were caught more often in up-traps. Fewer invertebrates were caught on hard beech than on hinau with comparable catching surface area. The numbers of spiders caught were significantly correlated with tree circumference. The invertebrates caught fell broadly into 3 trophic levelsmost were saprophytes, with equal numbers of herbivores and predators. Perched leaf litter in epiphytes and in tree cavities contain invertebrates otherwise associated with the forest floor. Invertebrates in the lowland forests of New Zealand appear to be generalists in their use of habitats (as many of them are saprophytes and predators).
24054767|Although many species of native invertebrates have been identified on toxic baits containing sodium monofluoroacetate (1080) following aerial operations for possum control, few quantitative data are available to determine the risk of primary or secondary poisoning that may result from these exposures. This paper reports on a series of studies conducted to determine the risk of 1080 exposure to one such non-target insect, the native ant Huberia striata. Subsequent risk of secondary poisoning to insectivorous animals is extrapolated. Ants were exposed in the laboratory to cereal baits containing 0.15% sodium monofluoroacetate, with and without alternative sources of food, and mortality was compared with controls after 24 and 48 h. Acute mortality was significantly greater in both exposed groups and ants that died contained 1080 residues, indicating that some ants could consume lethal amounts of 1080 in cereal baits. However, the increase in mortality was relatively small (7% after 24 h and 12% after 48 h), indicating either that palatability of 1080 bait to this species is low, or that the toxin is not readily absorbed from this matrix. Additional trials were conducted to expose ants to 1080 in sugar-water, in order to determine the acute toxicity dose range. The oral LD50 at 48 h was 42 mg kg1, which was comparable to previous results obtained for the large-headed weta, Hemideina crassidens. The persistence of 1080 in ants consuming a sub-lethal dose was also determined, in order to assess risks of secondary poisoning to insectivores. Residues in ants receiving approximately 36 mg kg1 of 1080 declined rapidly, from a peak of 5.51 mg kg1 1 day after exposure, to 0.27 mg kg1 after 7 days. Potential risks to insectivorous birds were calculated using worst-case exposure assumptions, and were determined to be negligible.
24052000|A brief preliminary description is given of the taxonomy, distribution and ecology of Pachystegia (Compositae), a genus of shrubs confined to the dry north-eastern district of the South Island, New Zealand.
24060802|Succession from anthropogenic grassland to secondary woody plant communities in New Zealand's eastern South Island dryland zone has potential to alter animal communities. We compared indigenous and exotic birds, terrestrial invertebrates and ground-dwelling lizards in 100-ha blocks representing vegetation at three woodiness levels (grassland, mixed grasslandshrubland, and shrubland) at three sites in Central Otago. We predicted that shrublands would support invertebrate taxa and indigenous bird species complementary (additional) to those in grasslands, thus increasing the diversity of taxa present in the landscape, and that shrublands would have higher indigenous dominance of bird composition than grassland. We also expected that vegetation woodiness would affect the taxonomic composition of assemblages of indigenous and exotic birds and of ground-dwelling invertebrates. We predicted shrubland would have little net effect on indigenous dryland ground-dwelling lizards, which we expected to be regulated by other microhabitat characteristics. To test our predictions we used rarefaction-based analyses of faunal complementarity, and canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) and generalised mixed models of animal response variables in relation to vegetation and environmental predictors. Our results showed that shrubland blocks supported ground-dwelling vertebrate orders and indigenous forest bird species complementary to those present in grasslands. Block-level woodiness was a primary predictor of indigenous, but not exotic, bird assemblages. At smaller scales of transects within blocks, the indigenous dominance of bird species assemblages in shrubland blocks was not significantly higher than elsewhere, but was related to plant-community-specific variations in more numerous and diverse exotic birds. Terrestrial beetle-family assemblages within plots varied significantly with local woodiness, but invertebrateorder assemblages did not. Shrubland development had little effect on common ground-dwelling lizards, which showed strong microhabitat preferences and favoured habitats dominated by indigenous plant species. We conclude that sizeable (i.e. >1 km2) areas of shrubland vegetation enhanced the diversity of indigenous birds and of ground invertebrate orders present at a landscape scale. Both grassland and shrubland habitat patches in drylands supported indigenous ground-dwelling lizards, but lizards may be vulnerable to habitat modifications that reduce indigenous plant dominance.
24053731|Kiwi have declined markedly in abundance and range since human settlement of New Zealand. Three of the four species are still extant in mainland forests, despite decades of co-existence with various introduced mammals. Little spotted kiwi is now probably confined to offshore islands. The role of introduced mammals in these population declines was evaluated by measuring the survival rates of adults, eggs and chicks of brown kiwi (A. mantelli) and great spotted kiwi (A. haastii) in mainland forests. Mortality rates of adults ranged from 5%-16% and did not differ significantly between species or sexes. Overall, 14 out of 209 adult kiwi died during 159.6 radio-tracking years. Predators definitely caused five of these deaths. Sixty-nine (68%) of 102 eggs from 77 nesting attempts by 48 pairs failed to hatch. Predators probably caused about 10% of egg failures. Only three of 49 chicks probably survived to adulthood, indicating a juvenile mortality rate of about 94%. Predators killed at least 8% of chicks, 45% of juveniles, and possibly as many as 60% of all young kiwi. Ferrets and dogs were the main predators of adult kiwi, possums and mustelids were the main egg predators, while stoats and cats were largely responsible for the deaths of young kiwi. Population models show that northern brown kiwi are currently declining at 5.8% per annum. This decline could be halted by cutting the current predation rates on young kiwi by about 34% to 33%.
24058155|To enhance the breeding success and survival of kaka (Nestor meridionalis) and mohua (Mohoua ochrocephala), we initiated stoat (Mustela erminea) control in the Eglinton Valley (13 000 ha), Fiordland, New Zealand using a single 40 km line of traps spaced 200 m apart with traps set continuously. This low intensity stoat control regime permitted successful kaka breeding and fledgling survival was high. A large irruption of rats, probably due to two consecutive years of heavy seeding by beech and mild winters, complicated assessment of the benefits of the technique for protecting breeding mohua. However, no stoat predation on breeding was recorded.
24058158|We describe the colonisation of artificially created gaps in an alpine grassland dominated by Chionochloa pallens. Twelve years after their creation, the 50 cm  50 cm gaps supported a distinctive vegetation composed of a mixture of perennial forbs, grasses and mosses. Three species (Bryum sp., Epilobium alsinoides and Plantago novae-zelandiae) were recorded only in the gaps. Plantago novae-zelandiae and Polytrichum juniperinum had their highest frequency in the centres of the gaps, while Celmisia gracilenta and Geranium microphyllum were most frequent at the edges. The distinctive species composition of the gap plots indicates that they are still in an early stage of succession, assuming an eventual reversion to the surrounding 'climax' grassland.
24054523|Two tree weta Hemideina ricta and H. femorata are predominantly allopatric on Banks Peninsula (South Island, New Zealand) except for four small areas of overlap. H. ricta was found over the outer eastern portion of Banks Peninsula including the eastern slopes of Akaroa Harbour whereas H. femorata was usually lower down on the eastern edge of Akaroa Harbour and west of this. H. ricta ranged from 20 m to 806 m in altitude whereas all H. femorata were found below 450 m. Ninety-four per cent of H. femorata occupied holes in Kunzea ericoides and the remainder were in four other tree species and in logs. Forty-one per cent of H. ricta were in logs and old fenceposts, 20% were in Hoheria angustifolia, 19% were in K. ericoides, 16% were in seven other broadleaf hardwood species and 4% were under rocks.
24052007|The podocarp/mixed hardwood forests on Mt Bryan O'Lynn, Central Westland, are described from 304 plots surveyed during 1975-77. Eight major plant associations are identified, using patterns of forest structure, physionomic dominance, diversity and distribution. Each association possesses distinct physiographic requirements, which ultimately results in a broad altitudinal stratification of the forest. Thus, the forests on low-altitude cutover terrace lands are dominated by Weinmannia racemosa and Cyathea smithii on partially cleared areas and by scrub hardwood species on clear-felled sites; the unmilled mid-altitudinal slopes are dominated by W. racemosa and Quintinia acutifolia; the ridges by Metrosideros umbellata and W. racemosa; the high altitude forests by Griselinia littoralis and Libocedrus bidwillii; and the alpine scrublands by scrub hardwoods, e.g., Olearia spp. and Dracophyllum spp. Forest mortality is altitudinally stratified also. Few dead stems occur in the low-altitude and alpine scrub forests. Conversely, in mid and high-altitude forests 9.6-15.5% of all standing stems are dead. The latter forests are structurally simple, are highly palatable to browsing animals, particularly possums, and appear to have been extensively modified by this marsupial. Possum densities throughout the forest profile are derived from a comprehensive extinction-trapping programme and verified by faecal pellet surveys. Mean density is 10.7/ha, ranging from 25.4/ha to 1.9/ha in the low and high-altitude forests respectively. Current densities correlate with a gross palatibility index calculated for each association, but do not reflect present patterns of forest mortality as possum densities within the highly modified mid-altitude forests are moderate to low.
24056431|The rapid decline in bumblebee populations within Europe has been linked to habitat loss through agricultural intensification, and a consequential reduction in the availability of preferred forage plants. The successful introduction of four European Bombus species to the South Island of New Zealand from England (in 1885 and 1906) provides an opportunity to determine how important different forage plants (also introduced from the U.K.) are to two severely threatened European bumblebee species (Bombus ruderatus and B. subterraneus). In January 2003 we conducted a survey of bumblebee populations across 70 sites in the central and southern South Island, recording which plant species were being used as pollen and nectar sources for each Bombus species. All four bumblebee species showed a clear preference for plants of European origin. Only B. terrestris, the most polylectic species, was recorded feeding on native plant species. The longer-tongued bumblebees, B. hortorum, B. ruderatus, and B. subterraneus, foraged predominantly on just two plant species; Trifolium pratense for both nectar and pollen, and Echium vulgare for nectar. These plant species are now declining in abundance in the U.K. Our results provide support for the hypothesis that the loss of flower-rich meadows, particularly those containing populations of Fabaceae species with long corollae, is responsible for the decline of bumblebee species across Europe. Comparison with earlier bumblebee surveys suggests that long-tongued bumblebees may also be in decline in New Zealand, particularly B. subterraneus which is now very localised and scarce.
24060758|Markrecapture methods are frequently used to obtain the data needed to inform conservation management of vulnerable species. This typically involves animals being captured, individually marked, then released and later detected by capture or resighting. This may be stressful for individual animals and can be resource-intensive. Photo-identification has emerged as an effective, and potentially less intrusive, alternative to traditional markrecapture methods. Photo-identification can be used when animals have stable and individually identifiable natural markings that can be photographed in the field and used for long-term identification. A database of photographs and associated capture-history data can be used for robust estimation of demographic parameters such as population size and survival if an appropriate sampling regime is used. In addition, aspects of behavioural ecology, habitat use, movement patterns and home range can be examined. We outline the creation of a photographic database for jewelled geckos (Naultinus gemmeus) from Otago Peninsula and test the accuracy and speed with which human observers can use this database to differentiate between individual jewelled geckos. Jewelled geckos found during visual searches were captured, photographed and their photographs incorporated into a database. Volunteers then had to match 15 photos of randomly selected geckos to different photographs of the same animals, which were contained within a database of 855 individuals. All users correctly matched all 15 randomly selected geckos. Experience appeared to increase the speed of correct identifications. Our results show that photo-identification can provide an effective alternative to potentially more intrusive techniques such as toe-clipping or pit-tagging for jewelled geckos on the Otago Peninsula.
24053670|Pollen analysis of a high altitude bog (Winterton Bog) and an alluvial soil sequence in the upper Awatere catchment on the western flanks of the Inland Kaikoura Range, and radiocarbon dates on wood and charcoal from the Marlborough region, have established a Holocene (post 10 000 years B.P.) vegetation history for this area. The upper slopes of the catchment were almost entirely clad in Podocarpus and Phyllocladus dominant conifer/broad-leaved forest and the valley floor in Prumnopitys taxifolia for most of the Holocene, despite occasional forest fires in the region. Nothofagus forest spread into the wetter, mountainous region west of the Awatere valley at around c. 6000 years B.P., but failed to establish more than scattered stands on the drier Inland Kaikoura Ranges. Widespread fire broke out in the early Polynesian era and between 750 and 600 years B.P. the Awatere catchment lost most of its forest cover, which was replaced by bracken, grass and scrub. There was a slight recovery of forest and scrub after 600 years B.P. when burning frequency lessened. Increased burning, grazing, and introduction of exotic weeds accompanied the penetration of the region by European pastoralists in the 1860s. The post-1960 era is clearly indicated by the upsurge of Echium vulgare and Pinus spp. The Winterton bog has a finely balanced water budget, and it may have been initiated by changes in the seasonality of rainfall in the mid-Holocene.
24054670|Aerial poisoning operations with carrot or cereal baits are used to control brushtail possum (Trichosurus vulpecula) populations in New Zealand forests for ecosystem conservation and to stop the spread of bovine tuberculosis to cattle and deer herds on adjacent farmland. Although various measures have been implemented to reduce the incidence of bird kills, dead birds continue to be found after poison operations. Colour-banded North Island tomtits (Petroica macrocephala toitoi) were monitored in treatment and non-treatment areas in Pureora Forest Park to determine the costs and benefits of aerial 1080 possum poisoning operations to tomtit populations. The August 1997 operation (carrot baits with very little chaff, 0.08% w/w 1080, 10 kg ha1), resulted in 11 (79%) of 14 tomtits disappearing, but none of nine from the non-treatment area. Whether the birds died of primary or secondary poisoning is unknown. No tomtits in either treatment or non-treatment areas disappeared following the August 1998 operation (cereal baits, 0.08% w/w 1080, 5 kg ha1). The carrot bait operation resulted in almost all possums and rodents being killed, but a few possums and rodents survived the cereal bait operation, apparently because of a gap in bait distribution. During the 1997/98 nesting season, tomtit pairs in the 1997 treatment area had high nesting success (80% of nests fledged chicks, mean of four fledglings per nest). Even so, by the following spring it seemed that the population had not recovered to its pre-poison level. Further research on this topic is warranted, the priority being to monitor tomtit mortality during more aerial 1080-cereal bait operations in order to assess the likely risks of using those baits.
24052734|A knowledge of the sensitivity of the brushtail possum (Trichosurus vulpecula) to 1080 poison is important as a basis for planning effective control campaigns. This study assesses the effects that experimental procedure may have on determining the LD50 of 1080 for brushtail possums and reports on the variation in sensitivity within and between different populations of the species in Australia, where it is indigenous. LD50s obtained ranged from 0.39-0.92 mg kg1, with 95% confidence limits of from 0.29-1.20 mg kg1. These figures are similar to those obtained by Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries researchers in New Zealand but are less than those obtained by the New Zealand Forest Service and bring into question which figures are valid for free-roaming possums in the bush. This is important in regard to the toxic loading of baits, particularly given the reported aversion by some possums to baits containing the recently increased concentration of 1080 recommended for possum control in New Zealand forest areas.
24052386|Comparisons of climate data from the two known habitats of Leiopelma hamiltoni (a small deforested rock tumble near the summit of Stephens Island called the "frog bank" and a forest remnant on Maud Island) show that the two are remarkably similar, apart from greater extremes of temperature and humidity occurring at the open rock surface of the frog bank than on the surface of the Maud Island habitat. Furthermore, the air space between the rocks of the frog bank is significantly cooler, more humid and subject to less temperature fluctuation than the surface. The frogs, being nocturnal, shelter under these rocks during the day. This habit and the climate of the frog bank are the major factors permitting the survival of the frog on Stephens Island since the frog bank lost its forest cover. Climate data from a nearby remnant of the original forest suggest that the Stephens Island habitat would have been more suitable for frogs in its original forested form than in its present state. Although grasses and Muehlenbeckia vines are encroaching onto the frog bank and creating a more favourable micro-climate at the habitat's surface, such cover may eventually restrict the access of frogs to sheltering rock crevices.
24060895|Distance sampling and fixed-width strip-transect counts were compared as methods for estimating population trends of the tomtit (Petroica macrocephala) from late September / early October to early November 2004, before and after aerial 1080-poisoning for control of the brushtail possum (Trichosurus vulpecula). Two observers independently recorded the distance and compass bearing to tomtits detected along 36 transect lines in each of two forests (one prefed with non-toxic bait and one not prefed). From these data we calculated (a) male tomtit density in the program DISTANCE and (b) the number of male tomtits within 50 m of each transect line. The number of male tomtit detections increased from September/October to November, probably as a result of changes in bird behaviour. Detections peaked at 2125 m from the transect lines, most likely indicating that some closer birds stopped singing on approach of an observer and were undetected. The mean detection distance did not differ significantly between observers in September/October but did differ in November, suggesting changes over time in the relative performance of the observers. Thus, several key assumptions underlying distance sampling were not met. The two methods produced similar population trends, indicating no difference in bias. Also, both indicated that poisoning with prefeeding had either no adverse impact on the tomtit population or no greater adverse impact than poisoning without prefeeding.
24060737|Opportunities now exist to establish pest-free areas on the mainland of New Zealand by eradicating introduced mammals from within predator-proof-fenced areas. This has increased opportunities to investigate how the native insect fauna responds to the eradication of introduced mammals. We examined the response of weta populations to mammal eradication in a before-after-control-impact (BACI) experiment within the southern exclosure on Maungatautari. A novel monitoring technique (footprint tracking tunnels) was used in combination with a conventional technique (lethal pitfall traps) to monitor weta populations. Within 2 years after mammal eradication, there were dramatic increases in weta pitfall captures, weta tracking rates and the incidence of weta footprinting per tracking card (proportion squares tracked out of 100). The mean number of weta per pitfall increased 12-fold (95% credible interval 720) after mammal eradication for adult Hemideina thoracica and 52-fold (95% credible interval 3089) for other weta. Before and immediately after mammal eradication approximately equal proportions of juveniles, subadult and adult weta were caught in the pitfall traps. The age structure of weta caught in pitfall traps changed after mammal eradication, with the percentage of adult weta in the samples increasing markedly from 30% in summer 2004/05 to 66% in summer 2008/09. The sex ratio of weta caught also changed, the percentage of females in pitfall traps increasing from 25% in summer 2004/05 to 55% in summer 2008/09. The two monitoring techniques have different advantages and disadvantages, which are discussed, but key advantages of tracking tunnels are that they are non-lethal and time-efficient. Counting squares tracked per card gave a more sensitive and precise indicator of response to mammal eradication than simply recording presence and absence of tracks, but required much more processing time.
24060876|We investigated why some mature females of New Zealand's critically endangered parrot, the kakapo (Strigops habroptilus), did not attempt to breed during the 2005 breeding season on Codfish Island. At a population level, the initiation of kakapo breeding appears to correspond with years of mast fruiting of rimu (Dacrydium cupressinum) trees, with the proportion of females that breed each season dependent on the quantity of rimu fruit available. This research investigates possible links between habitat quality within individual home ranges and the breeding status of adult females during 2005, when the abundance of available rimu fruit was low. We assessed the importance of both home range size and habitat characteristics in determining breeding attempts. Foraging home ranges were characterised using radio-tracking and triangulation techniques. The relative importance of habitat variables in optimal breeding habitat was assessed using ecological niche factor analysis. Our results show that female kakapo breeding in 2005 had, on average, home ranges twice the size of those females that did not breed that season and the ranges contained a significantly greater quantity of mature rimu forest. Multivariate analysis illustrates female kakapo were effectively partitioning available habitat, as breeders' foraging locations were positively correlated with high-abundance rimu forest with a tall canopy, described as optimal breeding habitat. In contrast non-breeders' locations were weakly correlated with short forest containing little or no mature rimu forest. To maximise reproductive output each breeding season, conservation managers need to ensure that all breeding-aged females occupy optimal breeding habitat on Codfish Island. Removal to other islands of kakapo not required in the breeding population may enable females to increase their home range size and occupy better breeding habitat.
24052614|Forested wildlife habitats identified in a broad field survey of Northland, New Zealand, have been ranked to determine their relative importance for indigenous wildlife. A numerical scoring system was devised after consideration of schemes used by other authors and after a preliminary examination of the survey data by step-wise multiple regression analysis. Twenty-five habitats were ranked according to the criteria of four authors, and significant agreement was found between the four sets of rankings. It is concluded that all habitat ranking systems employing sound ecological criteria would produce rankings which differ only slightly.
24060848|Exotic plant invasions are a key threat to New Zealand biodiversity. Alligator weed (Alternanthera philoxeroides; Amaranthaceae) is an invasive, herbaceous weed native to South America. Little is known about its dynamics in natural ecosystems in its introduced range, despite known agricultural impacts. We quantified alligator weed infestation at Lake Rotokawau, Northland, and investigated alligator weed's relationship with other vegetation, both native and exotic, over a year (Nov. 2005 to Sep. 2006). We also examined the relationship between native vegetation and 'other' exotic vegetation at the site. Alligator weed, at its peak in spring, covered over 20% of the surveyed lake margin. Plant community composition of plots without alligator weed differed significantly from invaded plots even when alligator weed itself was removed from the analysis. Uninvaded plots were characterised by low beta-diversity and predominantly terrestrial plant species, with Phormium tenax contributing 41% of within-group similarity. In contrast, invaded plots had higher beta-diversity and were characterised by a variety of emergent sedges and herbs. Alligator weed cover was negatively related to cover of natives but not cover of 'other' exotics. Alligator weed cover was not related to species richness of natives or 'other' exotics. 'Other' exotic species were positively related to native cover and richness, likely due to shared responses to favourable environmental conditions.
24052679|Relationships of species numbers to island biogeographic variables (area, altitude, distance from source pool) have been studied for indigenous lepidoptera, diptera, coleoptera and vascular plants inhabiting seven of New Zealand's outlying islands to find the best statistical model for the linear relationship between species number and each of the biogeographic variables and for that between the insects and plants. Percentage of variance accounted for by the regressions was used as the criterion for best-fit. For the species-area relationship and that between the insects and plants the best model was that using untransformed data; for the species-distance and species-altitude relationships only the log/log model for the plant species-altitude relationship yielded a statistically-significant value for the correlation coefficient. Though there are significant correlations between island areas and the number of species per genus of both insects and vascular plants they support, this is not accepted as evidence for competitive exclusion. Simberloff's views (1970, 1978) on the subject are discussed and attention is drawn to the land arthropod fauna of the Bounty Islands in which there are 17 species each belonging to a different family.
24052724|An approach is outlined for synthesising current understanding of nitrogen dynamics in natural grasslands and extensively managed grassland systems. The increasing complexity of models is illustrated from recent literature, first conceptualising and eventually process-simulating the dynamics of nitrogen, especially in the soil sub-systems of grasslands. Some comparisons are made between New Zealand and North American grasslands in the magnitude of some N pools and fluxes and some of the principal features of soil biological studies are noted. Natural environmental variations in N balances are reviewed, especially with regard to climatic influences on organic N pools, mineral N pools and nitrification. The role of nitrogen fixation is related to ecological succession and is presented as sometimes a facultative response of natural systems to natural and some cultural perturbations. Attention is redirected at symbiotic nitrogen fixers in New Zealand tussock grasslands. The effects of management factors on N balances are reviewed. The special susceptibility of New Zealand tall tussock grasslands to large N losses from fire is indicated. Grazing is especially examined for its influence on mineral N pools and losses as well as for its N redistribution effects. A summary assessment of the understanding of nitrogen regimes of New Zealand tussock grasslands is made in terms of higher plant uptake and transfers, litter accumulation and decomposition, and soil biology and biochemistry. Special attention is directed to the possible effects of pastorally-induced changes in these regimes. The review ends with an indication of the likely significance of model-guided, co-ordinated research into the dynamics of nitrogen and other biogeochemical transformations, as of phosphorus and sulphur, in both natural grasslands and the culturally developed grasslands and forests which may now replace many of them.
24054691|The relative abundance of entomopathogenic nematodes and fungi was estimated for 10 sites in each of indigenous forest, pasture, and cropland habitats by baiting soil samples with Galleria larvae. The steinernematid Steinernema feltiae (Filip) was the dominant nematode, occurring in soils from all three habitat types. The heterorhabditid Heterorhabditis zelandica Poinar was recovered only from soils of podocarp (Dacrycarpus dacrydioides (A. Rich.)) forests. Galleria infection by nematodes was higher in soils from forest habitat than in soils from pasture and cropland. Among the sampled forests, nematode infection was higher in soils from podocarp stands than those from broadleaf stands. The deuteromycete fungi Beauveria bassiana (Balsamo) Vuillemin, Metarhizium anisopliae (Metschnikoff) Sorokin, and Paecilomyces cf. cicadae (Miquel) Samson, and a Entomophthorales zygomycete, tentatively identified as a Tarchium species, were recovered from the Galleria baits. Infection of Galleria by B. bassiana and M. anisopliae occurred in soils from all habitat types, while that by P. cicadae occurred only in soils from forest habitats. Tarchium was recovered from a single pasture site. The frequency of Galleria infection by these entomopathogenic fungi collectively, and by B. bassiana alone, was higher in pasture soils than in soils from either forest or cropland. These results are discussed in relation to disturbance effects of land use changes and the potential role of generalist entomopathogens as biological indicators of soil health.
24058104|Several species of giant weta, including wetapunga (Deinacrida heteracantha, Orthoptera: Anostostomatidae), New Zealand's largest terrestrial invertebrate, have high conservation value, yet no methods for detecting and monitoring them have been developed. Here we show that rodent tracking tunnels set over three consecutive nights can be used to detect wetapunga on Little Barrier Island. Adult wetapunga footprints had significantly longer tarsal pad lengths than subadult wetapunga and Auckland tree weta, but tarsal pad length does not distinguish between subadult wetapunga and adult Auckland tree weta. Results suggest that setting tunnels on the ground is more effective than setting them on tree branches and that peanut butter as an attractant bait increases the detection rate of adult wetapunga. Future research is required to determine if the footprints of ground weta, tree weta and giant weta of different ages can be distinguished and to determine how tracking rates of giant weta relate to the population density.
24060700|Fire has been a major driver of forest loss in New Zealand. A conceptual model has been proposed in which positive feedbacks between vegetation, fire and soils can arrest regeneration of recurrently burned wet forest landscapes. We used vegetation data collected across three topographically similar landscapes  Awana, Glenfern and Windy Hill  on Great Barrier Island to (1) describe current vegetation composition and structure and predict future change in composition and (2) assess evidence for interactions between fire and soils slowing regeneration in these landscapes. Compositional data were analysed via classification and ordination, and we used transition matrix models to explore how vegetation composition may change in the future. The vegetation in the three landscapes spans repeatedly burned scrubland dominated by mnuka (Leptospermum scoparium) and exotic fire-dependent woody species such as Hakea sericea, to intact mature forest. Scrubland vegetation tends to be found on north-facing upper slopes and ridges  drier sites where fire has been more frequent and rendered soil conditions (e.g. organic matter and moisture) poor for plant growth. There is a slow reinvasion of forest species into the Leptospermum and Kunzea scrubland from gullies and other remnant patches, with wind-dispersed species preceding fleshy-fruited bird-dispersed ones. In the absence of fire in the next few decades the landscapes will continue to move back towards forest. More fires, however, will further degrade these landscapes by removing remaining fertile topsoils from ridges and slopes and by favouring exotic species adapted to recruit from seed and/or resprout vegetatively after fire.
24060733|Satellite transmitters (PTTs) were attached to four kereru (New Zealand pigeon, Hemiphaga novaeseelandiae) in Invercargill, Southland, New Zealand, during 200506. The transmitters were used to monitor the birds' locations, movements and home ranges. Attachment of the transmitters affected the behaviour and body condition of one of the kereru; no other negative effects, such as skin abrasion, were noticed. Fifty-four percent of locations recorded were of Argos location classes 1, 2 or 3 (accuracy of 1 km), and were used to determine the birds' movements and home range areas. Three of the kereru made flights across Foveaux Strait (a minimum distance of 33 km) to Stewart Island; the other remained around Invercargill. The maximum distance between their locations ranged from 11.4 to 101.9 km. Home ranges, as determined by cluster analysis, ranged from 619 ha to 31,732 ha, 1001000 times greater than kereru home range areas estimated in previous studies. Given the long-distance movements kereru make, often to locations distant from roads and tracks, satellite telemetry is probably the most reliable and cost-effective method of determining their locations.
24060629|Black-fronted tern (Chlidonias albostriatus) breeding populations on braided rivers in the South Island, New Zealand, are assumed to be in decline as their habitat comes under increasing pressure from exotic pests, hydroelectric power development and water abstraction. We collated 326 index counts of black-fronted terns from 2313 km of surveys on 84 rivers throughout their breeding range to test this assumption. Black-fronted terns were observed on 73% (n = 61) of rivers surveyed, and the sum of the most recent counts was 8325 birds. However, >200 black-fronted terns were counted on only 14% of rivers. We used generalised linear modelling to assess whether population trends could be detected using data from 29 rivers where counts were repeated 418 times between 1962 and 2008. We detected significant declines on eight rivers (range 5.515.8% p.a.), a significant increase on one river (Eglinton; 16.3% p.a.) and no trends on the remaining 20 rivers. The Eglinton River is the only site at which sustained predator control (aimed at mustelids) occurred throughout the monitoring period. Rivers on which declines have occurred are characterised by having relatively low flows (<30 m3 s1). At such rates, populations on low-flow rivers (64% of rivers surveyed, representing 51.4% of black-fronted terns counted on the oldest counts) would decline by a further c. 90% within 25 years. Based on these results we predict that if flows were reduced significantly on higher-flow rivers, rates of population decline would accelerate. We conclude that the IUCN status of 'Endangered' is appropriate for black-fronted terns, based on a predicted population reduction of around 50% over the next three generations (c. 30 years). This conclusion is supported by previous studies that described significant loss of habitat, low breeding success and vulnerability to predation by introduced mammals, and population models that predict continued declines towards extinction if management aimed at recovering populations is not instigated with some urgency.
24053610|Recent evidence points to the plant's being a much more limited resource than previously expected. In addition to the restraints on feeding and population growth imposed by such factors as leaf toughness, the physical environment, plant nutrition, etc., recent work points to the role of feeding-induced chemical changes in the leaves in reducing herbivore 'fitness'. This suggests that population regulation in herbivores may indeed sometimes be from the trophic level below that of the herbivore  the plant itself.
24060891|We used five-minute bird counts to investigate whether introduced Australian magpies (Gymnorhina tibicen) influence the abundance of other birds in rural New Zealand. Over 3 years, magpies were removed from five c. 900-ha study blocks, one in each of Northland, Waikato, Bay of Plenty, Wellington and Southland. Birds were counted in both the treatment blocks and paired non-treatment blocks for the 3 years of removal and also 1 year before. To minimise problems raised elsewhere with index counts we (1) selected treatment blocks and count stations using randomisation procedures, (2) used trained observers who spent equal time in paired treatment and non-treatment blocks, and (3) counted all blocks at the same time of year and only in good weather. On average, 548 magpies were removed from each treatment block each year, with magpie counts reduced by 76% relative to non-treatment blocks. Our results suggest magpies may restrict the movements of some birds (including kerer and t) in rural areas, but are less important than pest mammals at limiting population abundance at a landscape scale. We submit that five-minute bird counts were appropriate for our objectives, but that more research to examine their relationship to absolute densities is needed.
24052762|Colonising humans, first Polynesians and then Europeans, greatly altered the pre-human landscapes and biota of New Zealand. Their actions arose from a combination of pioneering necessity and ignorance. The process of attrition continues, despite the lessons of history, the greater body of knowledge now available, and the worldwide statistics on environmental degradation. For many years several Government Departments have been active in converting the natural environment to commercial ends, either by their own actions or by substantial financial support to private individuals. Their effects are seldom called to account because they internalise their decisions and deceive politicians with partial advice on policy formation. Scientists are asked to be accountable for their work, but accountability can also be demanded of the people to whom scientists give their information and advice. In terms of land management, the ultimate measure for ecologists is the healthy functioning of those parts of the Gondwanaland heritage which are in trust to New Zealand. On those terms the administrators have failed, by consistently ignoring or perverting the scientific information and the advice given to them. The public perception of nature conservation is not sufficient of itself without the more fundamental scientific values embodied in the Gondwanaland concept. The present re-organisation of Departments may help to allow scientific insights a much greater role in land management.
24066770|The vegetation of Campbell Island and its offshore islets was sampled quantitatively at 140 sites. Data from the 134 sites with more than one vascular plant species were subjected to multivariate analysis. Out of a total of 140 indigenous and widespread adventive species known from the island group, 124 vascular species were recorded; 85 non-vascular cryptogams or species aggregates play a major role in the vegetation. Up to 19 factors of the physical environment were recorded or derived for each site. Agglomerative cluster analysis of the vegetation data was used to identify 21 plant communities. These (together with cryptogam associations) include: maritime crusts, turfs, megaherbfields, tussock grasslands, and shrublands; mid-elevation swamps, flushes, bogs, tussock grasslands, shrublands, dwarf forests, and induced meadows; and upland tundra-like tussock grasslands, tall and short turf-herbfields, bogs, flushes, rock-ledge herbfields, and fellfields. Axis 1 of the DCA ordination is largely a soil gradient related to the eutrophying impact of marine spray, sea mammals and birds, and nutrient flushing. Axis 2 is an altitudinal (or thermal) gradient. Axis 3 is related to soil reaction and to different kinds of animal influence on vegetation stature and species richness, and Axis 4 also appears to have fertility and animal associations. Autecological interpretation of the data demonstrates clear niche segregation of congeneric species and species with similar growth forms. The notable megaherbs and giant tussocks may be an adaptation to harvesting nutrients from the aerosol precipitate. Heat harvesting in the cool, cloudy, wet, and windy climate may also be implicated. The history of farming and natural disturbances has resulted in a complex mosaic of vegetation-soil systems of varying maturity. Their putative dynamic interrelationships are depicted in terms of impacts of burning, grazing, marine animals and climate change and subsequent recovery or primary and secondary succession.
24052729|The data of Lloyd (1971) on the 'chosen tree' and 'chosen seedlings' in 5607 4  4 m plots in Russell forest are analysed using a simple transition matrix model. The most realistic analysis predicts little change in relative species composition, other than a slight increase in the softwoods. The virtue of the approach lies more in the questions it raises than in the predictions obtained. Before such models can be applied satisfactorily in New Zealand basic data on seedling survival, tree growth rates and average life spans are required for most indigenous species.
24052605|A method of graphical analysis which accounts for cause/effect lag between biological populations and environmental factors is presented. The method involves analysis of ellipsoid curves generated by delayed population responses to cyclic environmental variables. Six ellipse types are distinguished which determine the type of relationship involved and provide a key to equations for calculating the lag interval. The equations are based on the formula  = L/360, where  = either arcsin x/x or 90+ arccos x/x, x and x are measurements taken from the ellipse,  = lag and L = independent cycle length. The method is constrained to populations where generation time is small relative to duration of the independent cycle (L), and where lag is no greater than half L. Sampling interval should be short relative to L. Examples are cited to demonstrate application of the method, and interpretation of biological relationships from it is discussed.
24058132|To investigate the potential for mortality or sublethal effects in the tree weta (Hemideina crassidens) as the result of exposure to baits used for rodent control, and the potential secondary hazard to non-target species, captive weta were offered Ditrac wax block bait containing the anticoagulant diphacinone. Bait consumption was recorded daily for the first week and then weekly. Weta were sampled in groups of four following 1, 4, 8, 16, 31, and 64 days of exposure to bait and analysed to determine the concentration of diphacinone residues in their bodies. Any changes in feeding behaviour, survival, and bodyweight were recorded. Weta found Ditrac wax block baits palatable even in the presence of natural plant food, showing steady consumption of bait over time. No mortality or weight loss was attributable to the intake of Ditrac bait. All weta that ate bait had detectable diphacinone in their bodies, but did not accumulate diphacinone, i.e. whole-body concentrations did not increase with the amount of diphacinone bait eaten over time. Field use of diphacinone bait is likely to present a low risk of mortality to weta, but the risk posed by secondary diphacinone exposure to non-target species that eat weta requires further investigation.
24053250|Reconstruction of a generalised biology of moas suggests they would have been most abundant in grassland and scrubland, especially near forest margins and at lower altitudes. Their numbers would have been limited by the abundance of food and, on easier low altitude country, their feeding pressure would have been equivalent to that exerted by the introduced mammals. Steep and rough ground, dense sub-alpine scrub, and the risks to incubation and chick-rearing of summer snows, would have severely limited the extent to which moas could have used montane and alpine country. As has been observed for divaricating shrubs, most deciduous and poisonous plants in New Zealand are low statured. They often dominate early in successions, forest canopy gaps, forest margins, open scrubland and grassland. Their general ecology is consistent with the hypothesis that browsing by moas was a significant selection force.
24054770|A poison baiting operation at Trounson Kauri Park in Northland, New Zealand using first 1080 and then brodifacoum targeted possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) and rodents (Rattus rattus, Rattus norvegicus and Mus musculus). Predatory mammals were monitored by radio telemetry during the operation. All six feral cats (Felis catus), the single stoat (Mustela erminea) and the single ferret (Mustela furo) being monitored at the beginning of the operation died of secondary poisoning following the 1080 operation. A further two cats and four stoats were monitored through the ongoing poisoning campaign using brodifacoum in a continuous baiting regime. None of these radio tagged carnivores died of secondary poisoning. However, tissue analysis of additional carnivores trapped at Trounson found that cats, weasels (Mustela nivalis) and, to a lesser extent, stoats did contain brodifacoum residues. The duration that the radio-tagged predators were alive in and around Trounson Kauri Park suggests that the secondary poisoning effect was much reduced under the continuous baiting strategy compared to the initial 1080 poison operation.
24060831|The use of non-destructive and non-invasive monitoring methods is often necessary for species of high conservation status. Developing monitoring methods to maximise numbers of individuals found is important, given that rare species can be difficult to locate. Artificial refuges called 'weta motels' have been used for monitoring tree weta (Orthoptera: Anostostomatidae) since 1992, but poor occupancy for Hemideina ricta and H. femorata necessitated an improved design and assessment of placement to encourage tree weta use. Modification to a basic design of weta motel was tested on New Zealand's rarest tree weta, H. ricta, on Banks Peninsula, Canterbury, New Zealand. Possible lures such as peanut butter or frass from male and female H. ricta were placed in motels in an attempt to improve occupancy. We recorded high occupancy rates with an improved weta motel design and found that motels containing female frass had significantly higher levels of occupancy than controls, with the former reaching 80% occupation after 6 months. Weta motels were more likely to be used by tree weta in areas with low subcanopy density and patchy or little canopy cover, with H. ricta found to prefer higher altitude sites. Occupation of weta motels was compared with results from a previous hand search survey, finding very similar distributions of tree weta species with the two survey methods. We conclude that this modified refuge is effective for monitoring tree weta, including the range-restricted Banks Peninsula tree weta H. ricta.
24053265|The effect of protection from sheep grazing on indigenous plant species in relatively mesic, strongly modified Poa cita grassland, was examined using paired grazed and ungrazed sites. Ungrazed sites, fenced at times ranging from four to more than 24 years ago, had fewer species, lower indigenous cover and lower tussock density than adjacent grazed sites. The dominance of adventive species, particularly cocksfoot (Dactylis glomerata), in ungrazed sites appeared to be important to these differences. Grazing would appear to be necessary for the maintenance of indigenous species in this strongly modified short tussock grassland.
24053665|This paper describes the impact of nine poison operations on ship rats in four areas (35 ha to 3200 ha) of North Island forest. Poisoning with 1080, brodifacoum, or pindone killed 87-100% of rats, based on trapping and tracking-tunnel indices. Rat populations took 4-5 months to recover. Operations to protect nesting birds should therefore coincide with the onset of nesting and be repeated each year, although not necessarily with the same methods. Population reduction declined each year at Mapara, King Country, during three annual 1080 operations which used the same lures and baits, but remained high at Kaharoa, Bay of Plenty, where poison toxicity was higher, non-toxic bait was pre-fed, and poisoning methods varied each year. Mouse tracking rates increased in poisoned forests 3-6 months after poisoning if the initial kill of rats exceeded 90%, peaked 7-9 months after poisoning, then declined to pre-poison levels. Future research should focus on how prey and non-prey species within a forest community respond to a temporary reduction in rat numbers, and on methods to maintain low rat densities after initial knock-down.
24052379|Phytomass was measured and net potential productivity estimated for normal climatic conditions on the Otago rainshadow mountains. Seven tall snow tussock grasslands were compared with lower-statured cushion, herbfield and short grassland communities. Total phytomass ranged from c. 5-9 Kg m2 (22 000-40 000 Kcal m2) in tall tussock and c. 2-4 Kg m2 (8100-16 500 Kcal m2) in cushion, herbfield or short grassland vegetation. Root: shoot ratios of less than unity, in all communities, probably reflect the oceanic nature of the climate. Total annual potential net production ranges from c. 0.7-1.0 Kg m2 (3200-4600 Kcal m2) in tall tussock, and c. 0.4-0.7 Kg m2 (1700-3400 Kcal m2) in cushion or herbfield and is 1.0 Kg m2 (4200 Kcal m2) in an induced mid-altitude Poa colensoi turf grassland. Growing season efficiency ratings (0.5-1.2%) tend to increase with altitude, suggesting an adaptation to the short, climatically erratic summers. The c. 150-200 day growing seasons are nevertheless considerably longer than for continental tundras abroad. Turnover times are typically c. 11 years, but may be up to 20 years at high altitudes. Growth is suppressed, presumably by cool, short growing seasons at high altitudes and perhaps by soil moisture stress at the base of the alpine zone. The Otago alpine cushion and herbfield communities achieve phytomass and productivity values within the range for world tundras. The larger values for tall tussock stands are, however, not unusual when compared with other natural large-statured herbaceous or shrub vegetation types.
24060875|Kea (Nestor notabilis), large parrots endemic to hill country areas of the South Island, New Zealand, are subject to anthropogenic lead (Pb) exposure in their environment. Between April 2006 and June 2009 kea were captured in various parts of their range and samples of their blood were taken for blood lead analysis. All kea (n = 88) had been exposed to lead, with a range in blood lead concentrations of 0.014  16.55 mol L1 (mean  SE, 1.11  0.220 mol L1). A retrospective analysis of necropsy reports from 30 kea was also carried out. Of these, tissue lead levels were available for 20 birds, and 11 of those had liver and/or kidney lead levels reported to cause lead poisoning in other avian species. Blood lead levels for kea sampled in populated areas (with permanent human settlements) were significantly higher (P < 0.001) than those in remote areas. Sixty-four percent of kea sampled in populated areas had elevated blood lead levels (> 0.97 mol L1, the level suggestive of lead poisoning in parrots), and 22% had levels > 1.93 mol L1  the level diagnostic of lead poisoning in parrots. No kea from remote areas had levels > 0.97 mol L1. The kea is a long-lived, slow-reproducing species at a high risk of decline from even a small reduction in its survival rate. Based on our findings, we conclude there is an urgent need to implement lead abatement strategies in areas of the kea range that overlap with permanent human settlement.
24060719|Biological invasions have significantly affected New Zealand's native species and ecosystems. Most prominent are the effects of exotic mammals and plants, whereas few invertebrate invasions are known to have major effects on native ecosystems. Exceptions are the well-known cases of Vespula wasps in Nothofagus forest ecosystems and Eriococcus scale insects in Leptospermum shrublands. This limited impact is surprising because over 2000 exotic invertebrates have become established in New Zealand, among them many pests of exotic crop plants. The low impact of exotic invertebrates that invaded forests and other native ecosystems in New Zealand is in contrast to the situation in other parts of the world where many invertebrates have become important pests. We provide an overview of known invasions by exotic invertebrates in New Zealand, and explore in more detail several examples of invasive species, including herbivores, predators, parasitoids, decomposers and other groups in forests, grasslands, and other terrestrial ecosystems. Several hypotheses have been proposed to explain the comparative scarcity of such invasions that affect New Zealand's indigenous ecosystems. There is a common view that New Zealand's native species and ecosystems are inherently resistant to exotic invertebrate invaders, and there is some evidence to support this view. As a result of the high level of endemism in New Zealand's flora, many native plants are phylogenetically distant from the host plants of many plant-feeding invaders. This provides some protection. Less host-specific plant-feeding insects, generalist predators, parasitoids and decomposers are less affected by such constraints, and these groups are perhaps more represented among the successful invaders of natural ecosystems. However, the shortage of studies on invader impacts on native species and ecosystems, compared with studies on economically important crops and production ecosystems, means that an unbiased comparison is not possible at this time. Furthermore, many invaders go through extended lag phases where their impacts are not easily noticed until they become more abundant and create more damage. Likewise, indirect effects of invaders, through more complex interactions in food webs, as well as impacts on ecosystem functions such as decomposition and pollination, are more subtle and difficult to detect without careful study. There is clearly a need for more research to determine more accurately which exotic invertebrates are already present, what their direct and indirect impacts are, and what generalisations and predictions about threats to native species and ecosystems are possible.
24060853|The biodiversity conservation task in New Zealand is considerable and complex, and effective prioritisation of conservation work, informative reporting, and efficient, well-targeted data gathering are essential. We propose an approach to biodiversity assessment for organisations implementing biodiversity conservation work in New Zealand that unifies (1) biodiversity conservation work prioritisation, (2) reporting on trend and difference made to biodiversity, and (3) gathering relevant biodiversity data for both. We argue that prioritisation and reporting are reciprocal assessment activities that share information needs and are best served by a common framework that links the current state of biodiversity and expectations of future persistence with pressures (e.g. habitat clearance, weeds and pests) and human conservation activites ('biodiversity conservation work', e.g. legal protection, pest control, restoration). We describe ideas that might underpin the approach, including diminishing returns, irreplaceability, and vulnerability. We distinguish reporting of net achievement (biodiversity change or trend) from reporting of difference made to biodiversity by conservation work, and argue that the latter is a basis for both prioritisation and reporting in operational conservation organisations. A unified approach to prioritisation and reporting would help clarify management organisations' total requirements for biodiversity inventory, monitoring and research; different organisations could develop and apply the approach in a variety of ways, but a shared approach to gathering the essential information would benefit all stakeholders.
24054769|Stoats were monitored by three methods through an aerial 1080 poisoning operation at Waimanoa, Pureora Forest in August 1997. Tracking rates and number of live captures were used as indices of abundance, and radio-transmitters were used to follow individual animals. All 13 stoats with radio-transmitters within the poisoned area died between 2-18 days after the operation. No mustelids were tracked or live-trapped after the operation for three months. Of the radio-tracked stoats that died, rat remains occurred in 67%, passerine birds in 17%, cave weta in 17% and possum in 8%. Residues of 1080 were found in 12 of the 13 dead stoats. Our findings have important implications for the management of threatened species. Stoats are known to be a major factor in the continuing decline of some native birds. Previously, the potential of secondary poisoning to control stoats (and other predators) in New Zealand had focused on the use of anticoagulants, as these compounds persist and can accumulate in predators over a longer period. However, our results suggest that secondary poisoning with an acute toxin can also be highly efficient. This may also have greater public acceptability.
24053269|Fallow deer did not prefer either of the two main canopy species (silver beech, Nothofagus menziesii, and radiata pine, Pinus radiata), or any of the common indigenous shrubs, ferns, herbs and monocotyledons in three habitat types (beech, shrub-hardwood, and exotic forest). They did prefer all the common subcanopy tree species, and these comprised the bulk of diet in all habitats. Broadleaf (Griselinia littoralis) was the most important single food, with litterfall being its dominant source. The most important non-woody foods were lichen and fungi (beech forest) and introduced grasses (exotic forest). Total forage availability did not differ between habitats (590  148 kg of dry matter ha1), but composition did. Preferred foods (other than the introduced grasses) were scarce, particularly in the beech forest. A comparison of probable food production and use within the browse zone indicated that, at present densities, deer were not likely to prevent regeneration of the less preferred species (including silver beech). In the beech forest, regeneration of most subcanopy tree species will be minimal while deer densities remain near present levels (0.1 deer ha1). However, the biomass of silver beech, shrubs, ferns, lichen, and fungi appears adequate to sustain the current deer population even if most of the preferred tree species disappear.
24054666|Despite the importance of forest edges in ecology, only one study has previously been carried out in New Zealand on the modification of climate across forest edges. We measured light exposure, wind speed, air and soil temperature, and vapour pressure deficit (VPD) perpendicular to a north-south aligned, mature, edge of native broadleaf rainforest adjoining grazed pasture. At a point 80 m into the forest from the edge, light was only c. 0.7% and wind speed c. 20% of that in the open, and there was much less diurnal fluctuation in soil temperature, air temperature and VPD. The gradient of microclimate near the edge, as measured with a third (mobile) weather station, was abrupt for soil temperature and similar to the pattern of light exposure, with almost complete change over about 10 m. The gradient was less steep for wind speed, air temperature and VPD, with at least 40 m being required to stabilise these variables when wind was directed into the forest. These findings suggest that forest buffers of at least 40 m may be needed to protect forest reserves and streams from climatic exposure.
24060837|Mortality and/or dispersal immediately after release can cause translocated populations to fail over both the short and long term, particularly at mainland sanctuaries. However, post-release mortality and dispersal can be limited by releasing individuals with an increased probability of survival and site attachment. We monitored a South Island saddleback (tieke; Philesturnus carunculatus carunculatus) population, translocated to a mainland sanctuary, for one year after release to understand the combined influence of post-release mortality and dispersal on initial establishment. We related settlement propensity to three individual characteristics (sex, age class, and previous pairing history) that are known to play a role in the success of reintroductions of other species. Observations of 38 individually marked birds within the sanctuary declined sharply immediately after release, similar to a pattern of post-release mortality observed after a saddleback translocation onto an offshore island. Thereafter, observations declined more gradually until after the start of the first breeding season (5 months after release), likely due to dispersal out of the sanctuary. By the middle of the first breeding season, significantly more subadults than adults survived and remained at the release site, which we attribute to differences in territorial status prior to translocation. Although only 18% of the released birds survived and settled inside the sanctuary at one year after release, our results suggest that, for saddlebacks, releasing a greater proportion of subadults than adults could have a positive effect on reintroduction outcomes at mainland sites where dispersal is of concern.
24052799|Kaka (Nestor meridionalis meridionalis) studied in Big Bush State Forest spent 35% of their feeding time digging out Ochrocydus huttoni larvae from live mountain beech trunks (Nothofagus solandri var. cliffortioides). Larvae of O. huttoni had a high energy value compared to that of other insects. The assimilation efficiency for energy of two captive kaka was 91  3% when fed a diet of O. huttoni. Using the energy intake of the aviary birds during the feeding trials, the requirement for existence metabolism at 8.5C for 593 g kaka was about 490 kJ per day. This was consistent with estimates made using Kendeigh's allometric equations for existence metabolism. Unless the cost of digging for O. huttoni was less than half that of flying, there would be a net loss of energy for a kaka feeding on the larvae. Kaka would need to balance their energy budget by eating other foods, the abundance of which may be currently threatened.
24053267|In honeydew beech forest in the South Island of New Zealand, introduced Vespula vulgaris wasps are now very abundant. Approximated biomass estimates indicate that Vespula (mostly V. vulgaris) biomass (mean estimate at peak = 3761 g ha1, averaged over the year = 1097 g ha1) is as great as, or greater than combined biomasses of birds (best estimate = 206 g ha1), rodents (up to 914 g ha1 in some years, but usually much lower) and stoats (up to 30 g ha1). Relative V. vulgaris biomass is also estimated to be two orders of magnitude greater than native wasp biomass during the peak V. vulgaris season in one beech forest. Mean density of Vespula workers at the peak of the season was estimated to be 10,000 workers ha1, a greater density than the densities attained by other large wasp species when they have been used (with some success) at 'enhanced densities' as biological control agents overseas. The biological impacts of Vespula, and particularly V. vulgaris, in honeydew beech forest are likely to be great, but most of these impacts have not been documented.
24060646|The effectiveness of Feracol, a possum control paste bait containing 0.8% cholecalciferol, as rodenticide has been assessed in cage and field trials. Caged rats were provided with toxic bait in choice and no-choice tests. Feracol was readily eaten when presented as the sole food source or with other food, and was effective at killing rats in both situations. Wild-caught and laboratory rats (n=35), comprising both ship (Rattus rattus) and Norway rats (R. norvegicus), were presented with 30 g of Feracol alone or with an equivalent toxic bait over 48 h. Thirty-four rats died in an average of 4.0 days. Having established that the paste, originally designed for possum control, is also an effective rodenticide for rat control, field trials were initiated with the paste delivered in the field in Philproof and Striker bait stations. Monitoring of rat numbers before and after application of toxic bait was undertaken at three trial sites, Lions Hut, Mangaone and Pakoakoa, in Te Urewera National Park in the North Island of New Zealand. Rat population density was assessed using tracking tunnels. Philproof bait stations containing 200 g of Feracol were placed 50 m apart on grids at Lions Hut and monitoring was undertaken at one location per hectare using tracking tunnels. At Mangaone and Pakoakoa, two Striker bait stations containing 18 g of Feracol were sited at 25-m intervals on lines 150 m apart, and monitoring was undertaken with five lines of 10 tunnels at 50-m intervals. At Lions Hut, rat tracking decreased from 78% to 3% of tunnels tracked; at Mangaone the reduction was 51% to 0%; and at Pakoakoa from 36% to 0%. These trials demonstrate that Feracol is effective at reducing both moderate and high concentrations of ship rats in the philproof and Striker bait station delivery systems.
24060888|The New Zealand Garden Bird Survey started in 2007 primarily to monitor long-term trends in common garden bird populations. The method was based on the Big Garden Birdwatch in the UK. Volunteers spent one hour in midwinter each year recording for each bird species the largest number of individuals detected at any one time in their gardens, as an index of abundance. A large number of species was recorded, the two most numerous being house sparrow (Passer domesticus) and silvereye (Zosterops lateralis). There was regional variation in species occurrence and abundance; more species and more individuals of most species in rural than in urban gardens; more individuals of some species and fewer of others in gardens where supplementary food was provided; and changes in the abundance of some species over the 4 years. Potential problems with the methodology and interpretation of the data are discussed. As a consequence of convenience sampling the results apply only to the gardens of participants, not necessarily New Zealand as a whole. The survey has the potential to alert authorities to changes in garden bird population trends, and to provide circumstantial evidence of the success or otherwise of management actions such as restoration planting.
24054473|New Zealand's avifauna is characterised by a variety of endemic, often flightless, birds most of which are critically endangered. One of these, the takahe, is a large flightless rail which has been reduced to one population of 115 birds in its natural alpine habitat plus 52 others introduced on four small offshore islands. By contrast the takahe's closest extant relative, the pukeko, has been highly successful since its invasion of New Zealand within the past 800 years. This paper summarises results of a pilot study in which takahe eggs were cross-fostered to pukeko nests on Mana Island in order to increase the number of juveniles produced by each pair of takahe. Over two seasons, 67% (8/12) of the cross-fostered eggs hatched successfully with 25% (2/8) of the resulting young surviving to one year of age. These results were not significantly different from 42% (5/12) and 40% (2/5) hatching and fledging success of takahe-reared eggs from the same clutches. Low fledging success of cross-fostered chicks may reflect poor quality of takahe eggs per chicks rather than poor parental care by the pukeko foster parents, as hatching success of all parent-reared takahe eggs on Mana Island was only 22% (5/23) over the course of this research.
24060618|We used a comparative approach to investigate heteroblasty in the Chatham Islands. Heteroblasty refers to abrupt changes in the morphology of leaves and shoots with plant height. Common on isolated islands such as New Caledonia and New Zealand, which once had flightless, browsing birds, heteroblasty is hypothesised to be an adaptation to deter bird browsing. The Chatham Islands are a small archipelago located 800 km off the east coast of New Zealand, which has clear floristic links to New Zealand. However, unlike New Caledonia and New Zealand, the Chathams never had flightless, browsing birds. We investigated heteroblasty on the Chatham Islands by: (1) comparing height-related changes in leaf morphology and branching architecture in several plant taxa with heteroblastic relatives on the New Zealand mainland; (2) characterising changes in leaf morphology in heteroblastic tree species endemic to the Chathams; and (3) comparing overall trends in leaf heteroblasty on the Chathams with New Caledonia and New Zealand. Reversions to homoblasty were observed in the three Chatham Island taxa with heteroblastic relatives on the New Zealand mainland. However, two endemic tree species were clearly heteroblastic; both produced dramatically larger leaves as juveniles than as adults. Inter-archipelago comparisons showed that this trend in leaf morphology is rare among heteroblastic species in New Caledonia and New Zealand. Therefore, while some of our results were consistent with the hypothesis that heteroblasty is an adaptation to avoid bird browsing, other processes also appear to have shaped the expression of heteroblasty on Chatham Island.
24054462|Replacing native forests and grasslands with plantations, pastures and crops has resulted in both contraction of ranges and exploitation of modified habitats by native species, and both general and restricted dispersal of introduced species of soil fauna. Contraction is shown by native earthworms, land snails, ring nematodes and various arthropods, while the areas with changed land use suggest certain native insects are more numerous than 150 years ago. Damage to pastures by grass grub and porina show clearly how native species can exploit modified habitats. Introduced Lumbricidae make a positive contribution to soil processes in pastures throughout New Zealand. The distribution of cyst nematodes reflects the distribution and intensity of cultivation of the hosts with which they arrived. Changes in soil structure, such as with the elimination or introduction of earthworms, can have marked effects on other soil animals. The faunal changes found are consistent with changes in land use; habitat protection for floristic and scenic reasons will help preserve both known and unknown elements of the soil fauna.
24056363|The diet of radio-tagged moreporks (Ninox novaeseelandiae) was studied at Pureora Forest from May to December 1997. An examination of 187 pellets yielded 1226 prey items. Approximately 99% of the diet was invertebrates; the commonest items being beetles (48.6%), stick insects (25.6%) and weta (11.8%). Vertebrate prey included silvereye (Zosterops lateralis) and rodents in small numbers. The diet varied significantly from month to month.
24060863|New Zealand urban environments are currently dominated by exotic plant species. Restoring native vegetation and its associated native biodiversity in these landscapes is desirable for both cultural and ecological reasons. We report on the first four years of an ongoing vegetation restoration experiment in Waitakere City, Auckland, that addresses four challenges to urban restoration: weeds, Anthropic Soils, attraction of frugivorous birds, and patch isolation. Nine commonly planted native species, grouped separately into wind- and bird-dispersed species, were planted across four sites increasingly isolated from native bush patches, using two site preparation methods. By year three, woody weeds >50 cm tall had established with an average density of 1.7 plant m2 across all sites. This was more than 17 times denser than all established wild native woody seedlings of any height. One of our establishment methods, sparse planting with mulch, resulted in higher native plant survival and faster plant growth. However, after 4 years, the more intensive method, dense planting and ripping of the soil, resulted in a denser canopy and a 2.8-fold reduction in woody weed establishment. The typically urban soils of all sites were highly modified, with substantial variation in compaction, ponding risk, and fertility over distances of 515 m. Several, but not all, species were detrimentally affected by soil compaction and ponding. Many bird-dispersed species, both native and non-native, colonised the experiment, although this did not differ between plots with planted wind-dispersed and bird-dispersed species, perhaps due to the small size of these plots. Site colonisation by native species was particularly high at sites  100 m from existing native vegetation, suggesting that even small patches of native vegetation in urban landscapes will be valuable as seed sources for accelerating native plant establishment at nearby receptive sites.
24055336|This study aimed to estimate the level of mortality of North Island tomtits (Petroica macrocephala toitoi) during an aerial 1080 possum poisoning operation in Tongariro Forest, New Zealand, and to evaluate transect-based alternatives to banding for monitoring tomtit populations. The operation used 12 g toxic (1080 at 0.15% weight/weight) cereal baits sown at 3 kg/ha. Transects were established at three neighbouring sites; two within the 1080 poison area, and one outside. The re-sighting of 14 out of 15 banded male tomtits at one site within the 1080 operation indicated that mortality was low. This was backed up by results from a before-after-control-impact (BACI) design to analyse density estimates from distance sampling along transects. We analysed the change in counts of territorial males before and after the operation based on the same transect surveys. This also showed little impact of poisoning on tomtits, and indicated that loss rates greater than 8.4% due to 1080 were incompatible with the data (95% one-sided confidence bound). Counts of territorial males gave a much tighter confidence bound than the banding or distance sampling results. Of the techniques applied, the counting of territorial males appears to have the most promise for providing high-precision estimates of short-term impacts, by taking full advantage of the territorial habits of male tomtits in spring. However, distance sampling shows potential for providing the basis for longer-term monitoring of tomtit populations. The transect-based approaches involved substantially fewer resources than banding for estimating short-term impacts, and offer a considerably less-intensive means of longer-term monitoring of tomtits.
24052744|The Noises and Motukawao Islands in Hauraki Gulf are small (maximum size 26 ha) and bushclad, and none is permanently inhabited. Norway rats reached the Noises about 1956, but their history on the Motukawao group is unknown. Live and kill-trapping was carried out between August 1977 and December 1981, mainly on the Noises Islands. Trapping success was high initially but declined rapidly and remained very low after mid-1978. Rats travelled widely between consecutive captures in live-traps and three home ranges of males averaged 1.2 ha. Density on one of the Noises Islands was estimated to be 2.64.2 rats/ha. The age distributions of kill-trapped rats and skulls found on the Noises were both weighted towards older individuals. Adult males and females were generally similar in body size and condition, but Motukawao rats were in better condition than Noises rats. Males remained fertile throughout the year, whereas females were in breeding condition only between August and April. Histological examination of females showed that, compared with urban and rural Norway rats, maturity was delayed, litters were small and some females ovulated but failed to breed. The most common foods on the Noises were insects, seeds and fruits, and other plant material. Potential factors limiting rat numbers on the Noises are discussed, especially shortages of protein-rich foods and fresh water.
24060731|Kiwi possess many unusual features that make them interesting subjects for behavioural study. However, their nocturnal, cryptic nature has meant that studies to date rely on data collected indirectly. Infrared technology has enabled us to observe kiwi directly and here we present the first study of wild brown kiwi (Apteryx mantelli) behaviour by direct observation. We used handheld infrared video cameras to obtain c. 6 hours of video footage of kiwi over 19 months. Kiwi used native forest and exotic pasture habitats while active at night and spent most of their time foraging (75%). Prey capture rates were significantly higher in pasture than forest. The remaining 25% of time was spent walking, vigilant, engaged in comfort behaviours, escaping disturbance, and investigating obstacles. Direct social and courtship interactions were observed rarely. The senses of hearing, olfaction and touch seemed most important to kiwi. Touch was used for investigating terrain and negotiating obstacles. Hearing was used in response to sounds made by observers, conspecifics and other sources. Olfactory search behaviours (OSBs) were used in the direction of these sounds, and olfaction was also apparently used to assess odours on the ground. We observed no behaviours that appeared to be guided by vision. Behavioural repertoire size and diversity increased in winter, due to increases in OSBs towards conspecifics and other odour sources, and rarely observed behaviours. Prey capture rates also increased near-significantly in winter and microhabitat use was more diverse. Female kiwi at our study site had 30% longer bills than males, and probed into soil substrates on average 30% deeper. No other fine-scale behaviours that might reduce competition between kiwi sexes were observed.
24054508|Predictions from three conceptual models of the dynamics of semi-arid vegetation (Clementsian succession, alternative stable states and annuation/pulse phenomena) are used to review the available evidence on changes in the vegetation of semi-arid lowland Central Otago, New Zealand. Evidence is presented from Central Otago that corresponds with Clementsian succession and with annuation/pulse phenomena, although there is so far no formal evidence of alternative stable states. A declining-productivity model, which combines aspects of the other models, is also shown to fit the process of vegetation change in Central Otago. Present data on vegetation dynamics in Central Otago are insufficient for the employment of management frameworks such as degradation gradient assessment and the state-and-transition model.
24060740|Dama wallabies (Macropus eugenii) are an introduced pest in New Zealand requiring control. Historically, sodium fluoroacetate (1080) has been used to control wallabies but there is increasing resistance to this method of pest control. Pen trials have shown that Feratox cyanide pellets are an effective and humane toxin for use on dama wallabies. The aim of this study was to test the effectiveness of these cyanide pellets in field trials for controlling dama wallabies. Twenty-four dama wallabies were captured, radio-collared, and released in a 32-ha block of degraded native forest south-east of Rotorua. Twelve of the wallabies left the study area within 3 days of being released and were subsequently located at least 3 km from the area during the trial. Two weeks of prefeeding was carried out with non-toxic baits that consisted of 213 paste bait (Connovation, Auckland, NZ) mixed with a molasses powder with a single placebo Feratox-sized pellet inside; this was followed by the presentation of Feratox pellets in the same bait formulation. Of the 12 collared wallabies that were at the study site when toxic baits were laid, 11 were killed with Feratox; 20 uncollared resident wallabies were also killed. These results support the use of Feratox cyanide pellets for control of dama wallabies.
24055298|The ecological impacts of Hydrodictyon reticulatum blooms (1989-94) were studied at Lake Aniwhenua (a constructed lake) in North Island, New Zealand by collating fish, invertebrate and macrophyte data collected towards the end of a four year bloom period and following its decline. Hydrodictyon reticulatum had some localised impacts on the biota of the lake. Some macrophyte beds were smothered to the extent that they collapsed and disappeared, and dense compacted accumulations of H. reticulatum caused localised anoxic conditions while it decayed. However, fish and some invertebrates in the lake benefited from the H. reticulatum blooms. High numbers of Ceriodaphnia sp. (maximum, 5.5  104 m2) were recorded amongst H. reticulatum, and gastropods were exceptionally abundant, the most common being Potamopyrgus antipodarum (maximum, 1.8  105 m2). Hydrodictyon reticulatum was consumed by three species of common gastropods in experimental trials, with Austropeplea tomentosa consuming up to 1.3 g dry weight H. reticulatum g1 live weight of snail day1. Gastropods comprised the major portion of the diet of Oncorhynchus mykiss in Lake Aniwhenua during and after the H. reticulatum bloom. A marked peak in sports fishing (with exceptional sizes and numbers of fish caught) coincided with the period of H. reticulatum blooms and the abundant invertebrate food source associated with the blooms.
24060619|Species composition patterns and vegetationenvironment relationships were quantified for montane volcanic outcrops on Banks Peninsula. The flora of these habitat islands comprises 346 vascular plant species including 82 exotic species and 52 species that are nationally rare, regionally rare, or regional endemics. Both Multidimensional scaling (MDS) ordination analysis and TWINSPAN results illustrated the high compositional and environmental heterogeneity across the outcrops. MDS revealed that primary environmental factors related to community composition comprise both regional-scale gradients of altitude and outcrop-scale gradients of slope steepness, soil pH, area available to plants, maximum vegetation height, and the percentage of the surrounding vegetation that is forest. Accordingly, TWINSPAN separated four outcrop communities that occur on steeper slopes, have less fertile soils and tend not to face north from three outcrop communities that have shallower slopes, more fertile soils and tend to face north. Types in the first group are more likely to be bordered by forest or taller shrublands, whereas those in the second group occur on outcrops primarily bordered by grasslands and support more exotic species. Within these broader groups, communities differ in their altitude and the size, soil depth and shading of the outcrops on which they occur. We describe the vegetation of the seven communities; this ranges from predominance of stunted trees and taller statured species such as Podocarpus hallii and Phormium cookianum to vegetation of shrubby species such as Heliohebe lavaudiana and Hebe strictissima, to short vegetation of native woodland and grassland species such as Polystichum vestitum and Rytidosperma corinum, to exotic pasture-like vegetation of clovers and exotic grasses. The percentage of species on an outcrop face that are exotic is well modelled by site factors, with exotics increasing as the surrounding matrix becomes more disturbed, slopes become more gentle, the percentage of shade on the outcrop decreases, and soil fertility increases. In contrast, nearby disturbance has little influence on the percentage or number of species that are rare on an outcrop face; rather rare species richness is more strongly related to outcrop area and lack of shade, echoing patterns observed for rare outcrop species elsewhere in the world. These results highlight the importance of considering the high compositional heterogeneity among outcrops and the influence of disturbance to surrounding ecosystems in guiding conservation planning.
24052388|New Zealand pigeons (Hemiphaga novaeseelandiae novaeseelandiae) are the main dispersers of large-seeded fruit in indigenous forest. They eat a wide range of plant material including leaves, shoots, buds and flowers as well as fruits. Food items found in the alimentary tracts of 177 pigeons and information from published and unpublished observations showed that 104 plant taxa contributed to the diet. Of these, 78 were indigenous and 26 were exotic species. Feeding on nine of the species found in the dissections had not been recorded elsewhere. Fruits or seeds of 14 species, and material other than fruit of 19 species, were found in the dissections. The list of observations includes 56 species from which fruit is eaten and 43 from which other material is taken.
24055294|This study provides the first quantitative comparison of methods for monitoring herbivory and growth of New Zealand beech mistletoes (Alepis flavida, Peraxilla colensoi and Peraxilla tetrapetala). Four monitoring methods  leaf maps, volume estimates, visual estimates of browse and foliage density, and repeat fixed-point photographs  were used to assess the health of 60 permanently tagged mistletoe plants in four South Island beech forests between February 1997 and February 1998. Leaf maps provided the most detailed information but were extremely labour-intensive so could only be used to monitor a small number of plants. Photographs were much faster to use, and the results corresponded well to leaf map data, but A. flavida could not be photographed because it was frequently hidden by host foliage. Visual scoring methods and volume measurements did not correlate well with leaf maps, probably because leaf loss and growth were not obvious without images of plants from previous seasons. Thus, photographs can provide valuable reference points for future evaluation of plant condition. However, because photos require more time and money than visual scoring and can only be used on a subset of the population, their most practical use is as a supplement to visual scoring.
24060799|Carbon storage by trees and soil in urban areas is of increasing interest as a potential greenhouse gas mitigation measure. Our objectives were to (1) quantify carbon accumulation in above- and below-ground tree biomass, organic layer and mineral soil (05 cm) of a 27-year-old planted forest in Auckland and (2) compare the sequestration potential of urban trees with natural shrublands and forests in New Zealand. A mixed-species allometric equation for urban-grown native trees was developed on the basis of the tree biomass of 21 trees belonging to four species (Corynocarpus laevigatus, Kunzea ericoides, Pittosporum eugenioides, P. tenuifolium). Our allometric equation and a recently developed mixed-species equation for New Zealand native forest species produced similar results. A total of 45.9 Mg C ha1 was stored in above- and below-ground tree biomass in our Auckland park, equating to an average annual carbon sequestration rate of 1.7 Mg C ha1. This rate is within the range reported for New Zealand shrublands. Despite the adverse conditions posed by some urban environments (e.g. poor-quality soil, contamination), planted urban forests can sequester carbon at similar rates to natural vegetation in New Zealand.
24054479|Rabbits are serious economic and environmental pests in New Zealand's semi arid lands, yet there is surprisingly little quantitative information about their grazing impacts. This paper describes the short-term gains in pasture yield following protection from rabbit grazing in a rabbit-prone, dry tussock grassland community in Central Otago. During the four most productive plant growing months of 1994 (September to December), a six-fold increase in pasture yield was observed after protection from rabbit grazing (139 kg dry weight ha1 with rabbits cf. 853 kg DW ha1 without rabbits). Rabbit counts were 30 to 42 rabbits per spotlight km. The following four months (January to April) were characterised by reduced pasture growth (3 kg DW/ha with rabbits cf. 337 kg DW ha1 without rabbits) and higher rabbit numbers (42-76 rabbits per spotlight km), and was a critical period of herbage depletion. These substantial differences in pasture yield indicate the potential benefits for pastoral production and land conservation following protection from rabbits.
24052741|The breeding ranges of thar are described as they were in 1976 and 1984 and compared with previously described ranges in 1936, 1946, 1956 and 1966. Commercial hunting during 19721976 harvested about 32 000 thar and along with habitat limits in some areas this slowed the rate of dispersal into new areas and eliminated thar from the periphery of their range in other areas. The rate of thar dispersal from the time of their liberation in 1904 until 1936 was non-linear and recalculation of their breeding ranges from 19361966 shows rates of dispersal consistent with an exponential curve. The implications of this to a threshold-pressure and to a diffusion model of dispersal and their implications to thar management are discussed.
24060900|We used the distance detection function from five-minute point counts entirely within large woody vegetation patches to derive a method of truncating counts of birds detected close to the observer to estimate their relative abundance in small habitat patches. Our method trades off loss of information by truncation of bird sightings at successively larger distances from the observer to reduce sampling bias. Truncation of counts to include detections within 10 m of the observer gave similar absolute density as distance methods for the six most abundant native and six introduced species. Distance analysis showed that introduced species were in general more conspicuous than New Zealand native species. Use of counts very close to the observer reduces detectability biases for species and habitat comparisons to give more robust measures of community structure, allows inclusion of very small habitat fragments into the analysis, and provides a density measure for infrequently encountered species. However, the counts are still best treated as relative indices rather than absolute density estimates. Much of the international literature using counts and distance sampling estimation methods to claim increased bird diversity and abundance in larger habitat patches may be unreliable because these include directional biased estimation of abundance in small patches.
24060702|New Zealand has a long-standing statutory policy goal to preserve the natural character of the coastal environment and various freshwater environments and their margins. In the absence of an authoritative definition, it has not been possible to develop a method to measure natural character and its change, nor the outcomes of the long-standing national policy goal. Here we develop a definition of natural character that is relevant and useful in the New Zealand environmental, cultural and legal/policy context. Literature-derived interpretations of natural character and equivalent concepts are evaluated as to their potential suitability for developing a biophysical definition of natural character. Using a set of carefully designed criteria a subset of interpretations are condensed into a definition of natural character. The application of this definition is qualified following consideration of the literature addressing human perception and experiences of natural character. Appropriate reference conditions and baselines for evaluating natural character in different contexts are discussed.
24053640|Changes in soil chemistry in relation to hawkweed (Hieracium pilosella) presence were determined at a site receiving less than 600 mm rainfall where hawkweed was colonising Pallic Soils (yellow-grey earths). pH was significantly lower (by 0.5 units) and organic carbon values were significantly higher (0.7% absolute, 40% relative) within hawkweed patches than in adjacent soil, but there was no significant difference in total nitrogen. These differences are attributed to the change from sparse vegetation dominated by ephemeral annual plant species to continuous vegetation dominated by a perennial.
24053251|Moas were common and widespread in pre-Polynesian New Zealand. They were most concentrated in the lowlands but ranged into the mountains with Megalapteryx didinus reaching at least 1800 m. This contribution examines niche separation between species of moa, the evolutionary effects of moas on plant species, and the effects of mammals and moas on New Zealand vegetation. The aim is to establish the extent to which mammals are ecologically equivalent to moas. Within forest there was a high degree of coexistence between different species of moa. Their niches were separated by differences in feeding height, in bill shape, in gizzard development, and by other differences correlated with size. Femur circumference, as an index of weight, shows that moas were mostly in the range 20 to 200 kg. It is suggested that herbivory by moas is responsible for the evolution of at least 11 kinds of growth characteristics seen in indigenous plants. Four of these, namely spiny tussocks, mimicry, reduced visual apparency, and divarication are discussed and suggestions are made on how hypotheses for such adaptations can be tested. These plant responses, together with adaptive responses among moas, are considered as an example of coevolution. Possible adaptive responses in moas are increase in the cutting power of the bill, increasing development of head and neck muscles, increasing development of the gizzard, and increase in height. Many other New Zealand plants have growth features including chemical characteristics which, although not originating as adaptations to moa browsing, nevertheless make them unpalatable to, if not ignored by, introduced browsing mammals. There are both qualitative and quantitative differences in the feeding behaviours of mammals and moas. The ecological (and evolutionary) consequence of these is that selection pressures exerted on New Zealand plants by browsing mammals are not the same as those formerly exerted by moas. The preliminary conclusion reached is that mammals are equivalent to moas only in a limited site-specific sense, in particular, on lowland high-fertility sites such as river terraces. Elsewhere the effects of introduced mammals are either relatively minor or, in the montane and subalpine zones, are a major new effect on the vegetation, which is now much depleted from its pre-Polynesian state.
24056160|The study of pastures, pests (rabbits and caterpillars) and sheep productivity by Barlow (1987; New Zeal J Ecol 10: 4355) is reviewed, updated and extended. Pasture growth was modelled as a dynamic process, though sheep and rabbit abundance were not dynamic. The model predicted that there was a parabolic relationship between sheep productivity and sheep stocking rate with the effects of rabbits being to shift the relationship lower and to the left. The relationship is analogous to a model of sustained harvest of a wild population, and the shape parameter of each has similar numerical values (2 to 3). The Barlow model also predicted a negative relationship between sheep productivity and rabbit abundance, with the relationship being curved with fixed stocking rates. Analysis of data from an independent experimental study shows more support for a negative quadratic (concave down, R2 = 0.509) than a negative linear (R2 = 0.416, AICc = 2.770) relationship. The Barlow (1987) study assumed a positive linear relationship between the area of denuded pasture and pest abundance. A model selection analysis of a priori models of disturbance by feral pigs provides support for a positive curved relationship (R2 = 0.854) and a positive linear relationship (R2 = 0.357; AICc = 0.03) between the area of denuded pasture (as disturbed ground) and pig abundance. The general results and their implications are discussed.
24052612|Mainland robins forage less and spend less time in interspecific interactions than do Outer Chetwode Island birds, but devote more time than the latter to vocalising, body maintenance and partner-interactions. Outer Chetwode Island males forage for a similar proportion of time throughout the day, but mainland birds forage less, and spend more time on vocalising and partner-interactions, in early and mid-morning than at other times. From the comparison it seems that the first priority of a robin is to find enough food to meet maintenance needs. When more time has to be spent finding food, that devoted to several other activities declines. Once sufficient food for metabolism is found, "spare" time is devoted to body-maintenance. The activities of least importance to robins in April, May and June are those related to reproduction, such as vocalising and partner-interactions. The birds' diurnal patterns of activities are such that most reproductive behaviour occurs in the early morning, a time of day when foraging efficiency is probably low, so that these activities take place when they have least effect on time required for foraging.
24056197|The remote identification of forest canopy gaps from Digital Elevation Models (DEMs) built from aerial photographs is potentially a viable alternative to ground-based field surveys. In this study a DEM-based gap-finding algorithm, given suitable experimentally determined input parameters, yielded canopy gap statistics for a study area that were consistent with ground-based survey data from the same area. The method could thus be 'trained' to replicate ground-based results for a small test area of beech (Nothofagus) forest, with the potential for it to be applied to larger areas of forest of a similar type to gather canopy gap data with relatively little additional field work. The use of a DEM-based method also has the advantage that the results are easily analysed and mapped using commonly available GIS and cartographic software.
24052010|There are about 40 species of native bees in New Zealand, all belonging to the two most primitive bee families. Seven species have been introduced and established, five of which belong to the most advanced family of bees. All bees exploit similar resources such as nest sites, pollen, and nectar, so the question arises as to whether native and introduced bees are competing for these resources. Similarly, are native or introduced bees affected by the pathogens of newly contacted bee species? Although basic data on many native bee species are scarce, wide differences in nest site requirements suggest that competition for nest sites does not occur, except for a slight overlap between large Hylaeinae and introduced Megachilinae. Many native bees and introduced honey bees forage on the same flowers, but honey bees from commercial hives, bumble bees, alkali bees and leafcutting bees forage primarily on introduced plants. Native bees frequently outnumber honey bees on native and some introduced plants. Peak native bee foraging occurs during the "honey flow" when pollen and nectar are abundant, thus competition between species for food is reduced. Leafcutting bees are attacked by native bee parasites but the converse is not known. It is concluded that some of man's activities such as destruction of native flowers, introduction of new flowers and unintentional creation of nest sites, have probably had more impact on native bees than any competition from introduced bee species. Some native bees have competed successfully with honey bees for about 140 years and for a lesser time with other introduced bee species, which suggests that competitive success should continue. The status of those native bee species which are uncommon cannot be estimated until basic biological data become available.
24060751|Zinc phosphide (Zn3P2) has been used overseas as a vertebrate pest control tool for several decades. It has been favoured in the USA and Australia for the field control of rodents and other animal pest species because of its comparatively low risk of secondary poisoning and lack of environmental persistence. Zn3P2 paste was approved for use as a possum control agent in New Zealand by the Environmental Protection Authority in August 2011. A micro-encapsulated form of Zn3P2 has been developed for use in paste and in the future will be developed in solid cereal bait, initially for controlling possums and as a rodenticide. New Zealand research over the last 1015 years has focused on several factors, including determining Zn3P2 effectiveness for controlling possums, animal welfare, understanding and reducing non-target risk, and environmental fate. Zn3P2 is fast acting when delivered at toxic doses in baits to possums, with clinical signs first appearing from 15 min, and death after a lethal dose generally occurring in 35 h. Its toxicity is largely mediated by phosphine, which is formed as a breakdown product when paste is digested; Zn3P2 interacts with stomach acid. A toxic dose for possums will be delivered in 5 g of paste containing 1.5% Zn3P2 w/w. When this paste is applied in bait stations in field settings following prefeeding, possum numbers will be rapidly reduced. There should be no long-term residue risks. However, considerable care must be taken when using Zn3P2 for the control of animal pests because, despite low secondary poisoning risks, it has the potential (like other toxins) to cause primary poisoning of non-target species, and treatment of accidental poisoning is difficult. Exposure to sublethal doses has the potential to cause adverse effects, and strict safety precautions must be enforced to protect contractors and workers in the pest control industry. Despite extensive use of Zn3P2 overseas there has been only limited research and practical experience with Zn3P2 paste in New Zealand, especially when compared with alternative tools such as baits containing sodium monofluoroacetate (1080). Additional research efforts and practical experience should enable the effective use of Zn3P2 in New Zealand as a tool to achieve conservation outcomes or to control vectors of bovine tuberculosis.
24054645|A single five night pulse of sodium monofluroacetate (0.15% 1080) applied in bait stations at two different spacing intervals, 100 and 200 m, along forestry roads in New Zealand beech forest, killed all four of the resident radio-tagged stoats (Mustela erminea) and all three of the resident radio-tagged wild house cats (Felis catus) by secondary poisoning. Gut contents of predators indicated that house mice (Mus musculus), ship rats (Rattus rattus) and brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) were important sources of the toxin. High kills of predators, possums and rats at both 100 and 200 m spacing regimes suggest that greater efficacy of controlling these pests would be achieved with the latter method. Evidence suggests that routine management of possums and rats using 1080 and brodifacoum has resulted in widespread control of small mammalian carnivores by secondary poisoning in New Zealand forests. However, aerial application of poison can kill large numbers of tomtits (Petroica macrocephala) and robins (Petroica australis) and few other native bird species have been adequately monitored through such operations. Reducing risks to native wildlife is responsible ecological management. Use of bait stations along forestry roads or tracks may be fundamental in mounting cost-effective large-scale ground-based protection of native wildlife through safer predator controls.
24052703|The takahe (Notornis mantelli), an endangered rail once widely distributed through New Zealand, had become restricted to Fiordland, and possibly Nelson and the Ruahine Ranges, by European times. Two contentious viewpoints have been advanced to explain the decline: climate and vegetational changes in the late Pleistocene and Holocene; and ecological changes induced by early Polynesians. These theories are examined in relation to the habitat requirements of takahe in its present restricted range, the historical and sub-fossil record, and the possible age of the sub-fossils. We conclude that the takahe is a specialised tussock grassland feeder adapted to the alpine region and that it is unlikely to have changed these feeding adaptations since the last glacial period of the Pleistocene; that the widespread sub-fossil distribution occurred in the glacial periods of the Pleistocene when alpine and sub-alpine grassland covered most of New Zealand; and that replacement of grassland and scrubland by forest when the climate ameliorated in the late Pleistocene-Holocene would have reduced takahe habitat restricting the bird to certain localities where it was vulnerable to hunting by Polynesians when they colonised New Zealand.
24060804|Common gorse (Ulex europaeus) is one of the most invasive species worldwide. Biological control of gorse by two pre-dispersal seed predators (the weevil Exapion ulicis and the month Cydia succedana) is used in New Zealand. Gorse shrubs are distributed along wide natural gradients, and this could influence seed predation. The aim of this study was to identify factors that influence seed predation along two natural gradients, of light availability and gorse density. Seed predation was studied in the native range of the species, in south-west France. A total of 140 shrubs in stands with different irradiance and population densities were monitored. The number of seeds damaged was determined at different scales: the pod, the shrub and the gorse stand. The multi-scale analysis revealed that weevil activity increased with the quantity of gorse seeds produced, mainly at the pod and plot scales. The moth appeared satiated by abundant seed production at the bush and plot scales. In addition, moth activity was maintained in shady plots where weevil activity decreased. On the whole predation intensity was high and varied little along the density gradient (about 6080% of seeds destroyed). Conversely, predation intensity decreased significantly with shade (from about 80% in full-light plots to 25% of seeds destroyed in the shadiest plots). These results could help predict the impact of pre-dispersal seed predation on the dynamics of gorse populations along environmental gradients. The activity of the moth appeared to be complementary to that of the weevil because it was maintained where the weevil was rare (i.e. in shady environments). Thus, the joint presence of the two predators may be helpful in the context of biological control of gorse.
24060865|Interaction between conifers and angiosperms in New Zealand's podocarpbroadleaved forests is a topic of enduring interest. We aimed to determine if the often discontinuous regeneration of the podocarps Dacrydium cupressinum and Prumnopitys ferruginea can be attributed to their seedlings' tolerating less shade than those of angiosperm canopy trees and/or to occupying a narrower range of light environments. We quantified the light environments (% diffuse light availability) naturally occupied by large seedlings (50200 cm tall) of these two conifers and five co-occurring angiosperms, in an old-growth podocarpbroadleaved forest in the central North Island of New Zealand. Randomisation was used to compare the mean and variance of the light environments occupied by each species with those of the distribution of light environments in the forest understorey. The 10th percentiles of distributions were also calculated as an indicator of the deepest shade tolerated by each species. These parameters showed D. cupressinum to be essentially randomly distributed in relation to light availability, like the angiosperm Beilschmiedia tawa. Although this was also true of the mean light environment of the other conifer, P. ferruginea, there was marginally significant evidence that this species was underrepresented at the shadiest microsites. In contrast, the angiosperms Elaeocarpus dentatus and Weinmannia racemosa showed strongly non-random patterns, occupying significantly brighter minimum and mean light environments than would be expected by chance. It therefore seems unlikely that the discontinuous population structures of podocarps in many forests result from an intolerance of shade at the large seedling stage. Furthermore, the similarity of the ranges of light environments occupied by D. cupressinum and P. ferruginea suggests that reported differences in population structure and successional position of these species are not attributable to differences in seedling shade tolerance.
24052769|The kiore or Polynesian rat (Rattus exulans) has been suggested as the probable cause for reduced reptile, seabird and invertebrate faunas on many of the northern offshore islands of New Zealand, but the evidence is largely circumstantial and it is based on comparisons between islands with and without kiore. In 1977, kiore colonised a small island in the Mokohinau Group (Hauraki Gulf), where they caused a dramatic drop in lizard numbers. Their impact upon seabirds appeared minimal. Kiore were subsequently removed by poisoning; the altered lizard fauna remaining suggests that some species were more susceptible to rat predation than others.
24058211|The most distinguishing feature of the tree weta genus Hemideina (Orthoptera: Anostostomatidae) is their cephalic weaponry, which is thought to be the result of sexual selection on males to aggressively defend groups of reproductive females. Mountain stone weta H. maori is a tree weta that shelters in cavities under flat rocks on rocky outcrops in the alpine region of the South Island. The main objectives of this study were to determine whether males with larger heads have access to greater numbers of females, and whether head size has an effect on male survival and longevity. Males with larger heads associated with larger groups of females than males with smaller heads. Male head size only accounted for 11% of the variation in mating opportunity when all rocks with females were considered, but explained 36% of the variation when only a few specific rocks that had large numbers of females were taken into account. The lower recapture rates of males in general and of small-headed males in particular, further suggested that small males intermittently retreat to small cracks or cavities within tor columns, where there are unlikely to be large female groups. Thus, larger males had access to more females than smaller males. Moreover, larger males had no detectable disadvantage in terms of daily survival and longevity. This study provides strong evidence that larger male tree weta do associate with larger harems in the wild, however, questions relating to male weaponry size and mating success will become clearer only through paternity testing of weta under natural conditions.
24058175|The effects of an aerial 1080 possum poison operation using carrot baits on invertebrates in Whirinaki Forest Park are described from an un-replicated study of artificial refuges attached to tree trunks. Auckland tree weta (Hemideina thoracica), cave weta (Pharmacus sp. and Isoplectron sp.), cockroaches, spiders and harvestmen, and leaf-veined slugs (Athoracophorus bitentaculatus) were the most frequent occupants, but snails, millipedes, centipedes, flatworms, lepidopteran larvae, glowworm larvae (Arachnocampa luminosa), peripatus, slaters and beetles were also present occasionally. Invertebrate numbers were monitored every second or third month for a year before the poison operation, and for two years afterwards. Numbers of tree weta, cave weta, cockroaches, spiders and harvestmen, and leaf-veined slugs did not decline substantially in refuges in the treatment area relative to those in the non-treatment area immediately after the poison operation. Our results, and those from two other similar studies, suggest that aerial 1080 poison operations are unlikely to have a detrimental effect on invertebrates that occupy cavities above ground.
24052745|An aged sample of over 17,000 rabbits (Oryctolagus cuniculus) from the Wairarapa, in the North Island of New Zealand (area 2535 km2, 41 10S), was autopsied between September 1965 and September 1967. The sample represented about two-thirds of all rabbits shot by the Pest Destruction Board. Information included: date; property; age; sex; body-weight; if male  testes scrotal or not, if female  whether pregnant/lactating, number and size of healthy/resorbing embryos. About 52% of the rabbits shot were males. Percentages of rabbits in the 1st, 2nd, 3rd and > 3rd year age-classes were: males 52.2, 30.7, 9.6, 7.5; females 60.9, 27.9, 6.9, 4.3. Young up to at least 3 months old were under-represented in the sample. The age distribution of the samples differed between years. About 10% of young conceived May-November survived at least 6 months, compared with about 0.1% of those conceived in other months. Relative changes in numbers through the year of 1st, 2nd and 3rd year, and of older rabbits, are illustrated. The average annual survival rate beyond age 6 months was 0.41. About 33% of males aged 46 months had scrotal testes, rising to 62% of those > 12 months old. Some males were found with scrotal testes in every month. Few females < 4 months old were pregnant. Above this age, over 90% were pregnant in September-November, and fewer than 50% in April, May and June. Pre-natal mortality of embryos may be adaptive in matching litter-size at birth to environmental conditions. In some months pre-natal mortality affected at least 28% of pregnant females; it was more frequent among older than younger females. Mean monthly litter-size at birth ranged from 4.17 in June to 6.55 in October. Females aged 1012 months were more productive than younger or older females. On average, about 45 young were born annually per adult female. Both sexes gained in weight until > 3 years old. Adult females weighed more than adult males, the difference depending on the proportion pregnant. Overseas, dates of breeding vary widely even at similar latitudes and productivity varies with the length of the breeding season. In Spain, where the rabbit evolved, summer rainfall is sparse and the arrival of autumn rain is erratic. Rabbits breed opportunistically in Spain and in parts of Australia, but rarely in New Zealand. Litter-size of Oryctolagus seems not to vary latitudinally, unlike that of Sylvilagus spp. in America. The first summer was on average 1.5C warmer than the second. Females were heavier and more of them were pregnant in the first summer, but they had smaller litters; males were lighter and fewer had scrotal testes. Productivity was similar in the two years. An average annual kill by the Pest Destruction Board of about 15,000 rabbits of mixed ages probably accounted for less than 20% of the adult population. This is unlikely to have reduced the size of the population a year later, though it may have reduced average survival.
24053738|Bonamia is a protozoan parasite of the haemocytes of oysters (Tiostrea chilensis), in which it has an annual developmental cycle between November and August each year. The parasite transmits directly, oyster to oyster, and therefore disease spread is related to host stock density. The Foveaux Strait oyster population experiences large mortalities every 20-30 years, and these may be attributable to Bonamia. The parasite appears to become less pathogenic at the end of, and probably between, mass mortalities, and some oysters appear more tolerant of infection than others. On the basis of these observations, and considering other protist pathogen:oyster models, the apparently reduced pathogenicity of Bonamia is discussed in terms of parasite kinetics. The population dynamics and selection of parasite tolerant host stocks, and kinetics of parasite transmission, may explain the cyclic nature of large-scale mortalities in Foveaux Strait, without change in parasite pathogenicity.
24060630|In this study I assess the statistical power to detect a significantly greater increase in bird population size on treatment farms than on control farms given that there is a substantial treatment effect. Computer simulations of bird populations on New Zealand sheep/beef farms were used to generate significant changes in bird abundance from (a) controlling predation by introduced small mammals, (b) habitat structural complexity, and (c) an interaction of both. A simplified computer model of bird population dynamics was developed that predicted a birth pulse of 357% when predators were controlled and 110% if not, and a target of detecting the experimental elevation of bird abundance at a statistically significant level (P < 0.05) in 75% of all attempts was set. If at least four farm pairs (treatment vs non-treatment) are monitored, this is feasible for 15 of 23 species common on farmlands for which sampling error of abundance estimation was below 40%. A second virtual experiment measured the power of tests of whether habitat complexity and predation in combination led to added increases in bird abundance. It showed that a 75% detection of elevated benefits of predation control in complex habitats could only be achieved if at least 48 farms were monitored, and then only for species for which abundance could be estimated with <10% error. Researchers are advised to invest in increased within-site monitoring to achieve a reasonable precision in bird abundance estimation before increasing the number of replicates.
24052001|Pollen analysis suggests that in central South Island the late Otiran landscape on both sides of the Main Divide was dominated by grassland. An outstanding exception is the presence of Nothofagus menziesii forest at Blue Spur Road, Hokitika. The grassland persisted from about 26 000 years to about 12 000 years ago and during this time there was little variation in the character of the vegetation. During the period under review there were several well defined glacial advances and retreats and it is suggested that either the periods of time involved were too short to initiate vegetation change or that climate, for whatever reason, inhibited the development of shrubland. In any event the absence of change cannot be taken as evidence of an unchanging climate. The general character of the climate is discussed and it is concluded that a cold and stormy climate influenced the development of the vegetation. The west-east climatic gradient so characteristic of the trans-alpine environment was probably greater than it is today, a feature emphasised by the greater land area available because of the late-glacial lowering of sea-level.
24054773|Aerial poisoning using Talon 7-20 baits (active ingredient 20 ppm brodifacoum) was carried out on Motuihe Island, Hauraki Gulf, during the winter of 1997. The operation aimed to eradicate Norway rats (Rattus norvegicus) and house mice (Mus musculus) and to reduce rabbit (Oryctolagus cuniculus) numbers significantly. We studied the diet of feral house cats (Felis catus) before the operation, then monitored the impact of the operation on them to determine whether secondary brodifacoum poisoning caused a reduction in their numbers. Large numbers of rabbits remained after poisoning; this and other observations suggested that insufficient bait had been applied to achieve the aims of the programme. Cat mortality, based on radio-collared animals, was 3/14 (21%). Cats on Motuihe Island appeared to eat rabbit muscle tissue in preference to internal organs; brodifacoum concentrations are lower in muscle than in liver and we suggest that rabbits may be a poorer vector than rodents for secondary poisoning of cats. We also confirmed the risk of an aerial brodifacoum application to a range of non-target bird species. Mortality of pukeko (Porphyrio p. melanotus) and paradise shelducks (Tadorna variegata) was 49% and 60%, respectively. No mortality of New Zealand dotterels (Charadrius obscurus) or variable oystercatchers (Haematopus unicolor) was detected. Twenty-nine individuals of 10 bird species (five indigenous and five introduced) were found dead after the operation and livers of all of them contained residues of brodifacoum; toxin levels averaged 0.84 g g1 (range 0.12-2.31 g g1).
24060620|Urban streams globally are characterised by degraded habitat conditions and low aquatic biodiversity, but are increasingly becoming the focus of restoration activities. We investigated habitat quality, ecological function, and fish and macroinvertebrate community composition of gully streams in Hamilton City, New Zealand, and compared these with a selection of periurban sites surrounded by rural land. A similar complement of fish species was found at urban and periurban sites, including two threatened species, with only one introduced fish widespread (Gambusia affinis). Stream macroinvertebrate community metrics indicated low ecological condition at most urban and periurban sites, but highlighted the presence of one high value urban site with a fauna dominated by sensitive taxa. Light-trapping around seepages in city gullies revealed the presence of several caddisfly species normally associated with native forest, suggesting that seepage habitats can provide important refugia for some aquatic insects in urban environments. Qualitative measures of stream habitat were not significantly different between urban and periurban sites, but urban streams had significantly lower hydraulic function and higher biogeochemical function than periurban streams. These functional differences are thought to reflect, respectively, (1) the combined effects of channel modification and stormwater hydrology, and (2) the influence of riparian vegetation providing shade and enhancing habitat in streams. Significant relationships between some macroinvertebrate community metrics and riparian vegetation buffering and bank protection suggest that riparian enhancement may have beneficial ecological outcomes in some urban streams. Other actions that may contribute to urban stream restoration goals include an integrated catchment approach to resolving fish passage issues, active reintroduction of wood to streams to enhance cover and habitat heterogeneity, and seeding of depauperate streams with native migratory fish to help initiate natural recolonisation.
24060628|We collated 48 surveys of individually banded birds or birds fitted with radio transmitters that were checked before and after 1080 poison (sodium fluoroacetate) baits were aerially distributed to control brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) in New Zealand forests. The surveys were associated with 34 pest control operations from 1986 to 2009 and covered 13 native bird species, of which four were kiwi (Apteryx spp.). Sample sizes ranged from 1 to 46 birds (median 15). In 12 cases a sample of 1 to 42 birds (median 13) was surveyed in an untreated area at the same time. In total, 748 birds were checked before and after operations and 48 birds disappeared or were found dead. In non-treatment areas, 193 birds were checked and four died. Surveys of kiwi, whio (Hymenolaimus malacorhynchos), kaka (Nestor meridionalis) and kokako (Callaeas cinerea) were grouped for meta-analyses. The 95% pooled upper confidence bounds for the point estimate of zero mortality were each less than 4% for kiwi, kaka and kokako indicating only a small risk of mortality during 1080 pest control operations. Prefeeding with non-toxic baits increased from 22% (19981999) to 79% (20072008) in 322 operations on public conservation lands but was used in only 9 (26%) of the operations during which individually marked birds were monitored. We caution that failure to observe bird deaths in small samples may lead to weak inference about zero mortality across a population, most surveys in the review did not involve prefeeding, and that 11 native bird species for which deaths were reported after 1080 operations have not been studied.
24052773|The relationships between an index of rabbit density (number spotlighted), bait application rate and control effectiveness of a single application of a highly acceptable cereal bait (1250 baits/kg), containing 50 ppm brodifacoum, were investigated. The impact of this control on non-target species was also evaluated. Bait application rates >500 baits per spotlighted rabbit killed 97-100%, while rates averaging <300 baits/rabbit killed <65%. Provided application rates did not exceed about 800 baits/rabbit, 80% were consumed by day 3 to 4, so few remained to pose risks to domestic livestock. Most rabbits died between the fourth and eighth day with the majority of deaths occurring in burrows or under scrub, thus reducing access to avian predators. The large number of baits eaten resulted in brodifacoum residues in the rabbits (mean 4.4 mg/kg in livers). This contributed to the few observed non-target deaths of avian and mammalian rabbit predators. However there appeared to be no long-term impact on rabbit predator-prey relationships in the study area as a result of a single application of brodifacoum baits.
24058122|Berberis darwinii (Berberidaceae) is a serious environmental weed in New Zealand, capable of invading a range of different light environments from grazed pasture to intact forest. According to optimal partitioning models, some plants optimise growth under different environmental conditions by shifting biomass allocation among tissue types (e.g. roots, shoots) to maximise the capture of limiting resources (e.g. water, light). We examined patterns of growth, biomass allocation, and seedling survival in Berberis darwinii to determine whether any of these factors might be contributing to invasion success. Growth and biomass allocation parameters were measured on seedlings grown for 7 months in five natural light environments in the field. Survival was high in the sunniest sites, and low in the shadiest sites. Seedlings grown in full sun were an order of magnitude taller and heavier, had five times as many leaves, and proportionally more biomass allocated to leaves than seedlings grown in other light environments. In the shade, leaves were bigger and thinner, and leaf area as a proportion of total plant biomass increased, but the proportion of above- to below-ground biomass was similar across all light and soil moisture environments. In summary, although leaf traits were plastic, patterns of biomass allocation did not vary according to optimal partitioning models, and were not correlated with patterns of seedling survival. Implications for the management of this invasive species are discussed.
24060811|Two species of rat (kiore or Pacific rat Rattus exulans and Norway rat R. norvegicus) coexisted on Kapiti Island (1965 ha) until 1996, when they were simultaneously eradicated. I radio-tracked rats of both species from June 1996 to September 1996, when the first of two aerial poison drops occurred. The aim of the study was to describe the home-range parameters of both species of rat in an area of grassland where they coexisted. Radio-tagged kiore occupied overlapping home ranges that varied from 26 to 89 m in diameter. Norway rats occupied larger home ranges (218916 m in diameter), which overlapped the home ranges of both other Norway rats and kiore. Jacobs' indices of cohesiveness indicated that kiore and Norway rats might avoid each other, despite the fact that their home ranges overlapped. Patterns of habitat use suggest that kiore prefer denser habitats than Norway rats. Differing habitat preferences, possibly driven by higher predation risk for kiore in open habitats, might be sufficient to explain coexistence of rodents on Kapiti Island. Further research is needed to elucidate the relative importance of diet, home range use, and predation risk in permitting multi-species assemblages in New Zealand.
24054515|Rats were eradicated from Lady Alice Island (Northland, New Zealand) in October 1994, using aerially applied cereal-based bait containing brodifacoum. To determine the fate and non-target impact of brodifacoum, streams, soil, invertebrates, and birds were monitored for 7 months after the baits were applied. No brodifacoum was detected in any of the stream or soil samples. Brodifacoum was detected in cave weta found on baits, and in morepork and red-crowned parakeet liver tissue. Significant contamination of water and soil is unlikely after a single aerial application of brodifacoum baits. Invertebrates such as cave weta may be at risk of consuming brodifacoum bait, morepork and red-crowned parakeet may be at risk of secondary poisoning.
24060823|Age and structure of local vegetation (habitat complexity) are commonly assumed to be indicators of habitat quality for breeding birds, but for many species these relationships are poorly understood. The hihi (stitchbird Notiomystis cincta), an endangered New Zealand cavity-nesting passerine that only survives on mammalian predator-free islands or within fenced areas, has been the focus of intensive conservation management and research. Between 1992 and 2004 we examined the fledging success of 347 nests from four island populations. Habitat quality was improved at the two scrub/regenerating sites and one of the two mature/climax sites through management using supplementary feeding, nest-box parasite control or both. At two sites (one mature, one regenerating) management was stopped during the study allowing us to measure fledgling success with and without habitat quality improvement through management. At the population level, the number of chicks fledged per nest increased as management intensity increased and habitat quality increased. The positive effect of management was greatest for populations in lower quality habitats. To assess the relationship between fledging success and local habitat variables around the nesting site we used a height-frequency vegetation survey method sensitive to changes in vertical structural complexity at the two mature/climax sites. For 36 natural nests, a cross-validated regression-tree analysis (R2 = 0.69) predicted that as habitat complexity increased, so did fledging success, which was generally higher for nests in trees with larger diameters (present in older forests). Because these habitats are free from nest predators, our results suggest that habitat age and complexity are proxies for habitat quality through effects on nestling food availability and/or nest-chamber characteristics. Our results support the current management approach of providing supplementary food to translocated hihi populations and suggest that supplementary food can be used to overcome resource deficiencies for this species in poorer quality habitats.
24056436|We present two statistical models documenting variations in density indices of stoats and of mice in New Zealand southern beech (Nothofagus spp.) forests. They confirm previous, simpler correlations showing that the summer capture rate of stoats increases with spring mouse density index up to about 2025 mouse captures per 100 trap-nights (C/100TN). However, at much higher mouse densities (6080 C/100TN), observed in the Grebe and Borland Valleys in southern Fiordland in 1979/80 and again in 1999/2000, fewer stoats were caught than expected. These models quantify a serious decline in capture rate of stoats during periods of high mouse abundance over the range 25-80 C/100TN. At such times, management strategies aiming to protect threatened birds by intensive lethal trapping of stoats during the nesting seasons may be least effective just when they are most needed.
24054457|Earlier studies of the starling (Sturnus vulgaris) population at Belmont, Lower Hutt, New Zealand, showed that nest productivity was low compared with other populations in New Zealand and elsewhere. Therefore, we investigated possible trade-offs between offspring number and quality (as measured by body mass and composition). We also compared these measures of offspring condition with pre- and post-fledging survival. Nestling mass did not significantly differ with clutch size or brood size at any age. In starlings about to leave the nest, lean (i.e., fat-free) dry mass and water mass increased with body mass, but lipid mass increased approximately twice as much. When the effects of the other variables were controlled in a partial correlation analysis, lean dry mass, water mass, lipid mass, and mass of stomach contents were positively correlated with mass at nest-leaving; brood size was not correlated with mass at nest-leaving. Nest success was independent of clutch size and brood size, but lighter broods were more likely to fail totally than were heavier broods early in the nestling period. Nestling survival early, but not late, in the nestling period was positively correlated with nestling mass. The likelihood that a nestling raised in 1973-1979 would be recruited as a breeder was independent of its mass at brood-day 12. Thus, unlike some other passerines, larger, heavier starling nestlings did not seem to survive better than average ones. Low productivity was not accompanied by a decrease in body condition of those nestlings that survived the nestling period. Therefore, starlings at Belmont reduced offspring number rather than offspring quality when they encountered unfavourable conditions.
24060745|A review of pest-exclusion fences throughout New Zealand shows that the goals of fence projects are frequently not achieved and cost-benefit analyses often do not adequately quantify ongoing costs. The creation of these sanctuaries enclosed by predator-proof fences often creates small expensive zoos surrounded by degraded habitat that will never be able to sustain the animal and plant species contained within the fence. We examine what fence proponents and conservation trusts believe they are achieving and ask whether the evidence available demonstrates that fenced areas are capable of fulfilling these objectives.
24052763|Hawthorn (Crataegus monogyna) is a naturalised tree that is classified as a noxious plant in several counties in the eastern South Island. It is locally abundant in lowland forest remnants, and with the indigenous spiny shrub matagouri (Discaria toumatou), on grazing land in Canterbury. Two scrub sites near Porters Pass, where the original hawthorn trees still existed, and a forest site near Kowai Bush were sampled by measuring stem diameters and counting growth rings, to determine the age structure and dynamics of hawthorn. Matagouri was sampled similarly at one of the sites. There is a close positive relationship between age, stem diameter and plant height for both hawthorn and the slower growing matagouri. Hawthorn growth is impeded by grazing, but it is spreading near Porters Pass in clumps of matagouri and in pastures that are only lightly grazed. If existing management continues, hawthorn is predicted to increase as more of the bushes reach fruiting age. In the forest site, less hawthorn is establishing now than when the forest was more disturbed, whereas seedlings and saplings of native trees are abundant. Hawthorn is predicted to decrease here. The management of hawthorn should recognise these different situations.
24052743|The diet of brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecula Kerr) in mixed hardwood forests on a central Westland hillside is described from analysis of plant cuticle fragments and seeds in their faeces. Faeces were collected monthly for 2.25 years from animals live-trapped from low altitude forest/pasture margins through to high altitude alpine shrublands. The diet included forest and pasture foliage, buds, and fruits of over 100 species, although most were eaten infrequently. Foliage was taken most often from woody forest species (88%), with three canopy species, kamahi (Weinmannia racemosa), southern rata (Metrosideros umbellata), and mahoe (Melicytus ramiflorus), providing 69% of the leaf intake. Pasture species formed 12% of the diet of possums living within 300 m of the forest edge, with 90% of this being clovers (Trifolium spp.) and grasses. Fruit was taken from a wide range of forest species. Diet varied with sex, season, and altitude. Males ate more pasture foliage and less ferns than females and differed significantly in their use of many of the major woody species. Woody species were favoured most in winter and spring, ferns and fruits in autumn and winter, and pasture species in autumn. Pasture species were eaten only by possums denning within 1000 m of the forest/pasture margin, and high-altitude species by possums denning nearby. Only 15 forest species were eaten as much as or more than expected from their relative abundance. Ten of these species were frequently eaten, and the remainder infrequently, being locally rare. Preferred species showed clear evidence of possum browse and were often represented by many dead stems. This demonstrated the adverse effects of possums in such mixed hardwood forests.
24054553|The challenge of community restoration is to understand and exploit the principles of ecological succession at all seral stages, by complementing and accelerating the processes of colonisation and regeneration. The main aim is to construct self-sustaining, appropriate communities, connected in the landscape, that meet conservation, landscape and crop production goals. Research, to date, has been biased towards the plant and soil components with little consideration for the animal element. We discuss the importance of this missing component, put forward our belief that it is essential for enhancing landscape biodiversity, given that invertebrates provide the bulk of the biodiversity in New Zealand, and ensure that many ecological functions are performed. We suggest that restoration is an ideal model system for testing succession theory.
24053182|Soil temperature, soil moisture and soil fertility were determined empirically at 63 predominantly hill sites in the South Island, New Zealand. Soil temperatures were measured at a depth of 0.5 m in four seasons and gave a standard deviation of mean annual temperature between sites of 2.2 C. Soil moisture levels, as available water in a 0-0.5 m profile, measured seasonally, gave a standard deviation between sites of 49 mm water. Soil fertility was measured in a common environment as yield of a test species grown in each soil expressed as a percentage of the yield in the same soil given complete nutrients. On this scale the standard deviation between sites was 19%. The trial showed that these environmental factors can be empirically measured in surveys.
24053179|Relict forests within tussock grassland and abundant subsoil charcoal indicate that prior to Polynesian conflagrations, conifer forests dominated by kaikawaka covered the upper montane plateaux in Moawhango Ecological Region. Much forest remains in peripheral districts where the plateaux border the encircling Kaimanawa, Kaweka and Ruahine greywacke uplands; in these districts, beech forest of the ranges extends on to plateaux surfaces as a narrow, variable-width strip intermixed with conifer forest. Factors considered in an investigation of the dynamics of the boundary zone between beech and conifer forest include the distribution pattern of beech outlier stands within conifer forest, stand structure, tree architecture and age hierarchies at the boundary, spreading rates of beech, seedling microsite requirements and radial increment growth rates. The study shows a centripetal spread of beech from the ranges at the expense of the conifer community. Range expansion occurs by both the slow marginal spread of beech trees and the establishment of outlier stands of beech within the conifer community. Spreading rates are comparable to those deduced from South Island forests. The chief limitation to beech spreading is lack of opportunities for seedling establishment beneath the dense, lower canopy of small trees and shrubs of the conifer community. Population growth of beech in the late Holocene, which is evident in the palynological records from the adjacent Ruahine Range, has probably been regulated by slope and how closely regional environments approximate the optimum conditions for beech.
24056321|Ship rats (Rattus rattus) were removed from sites on Pearl Island, southern Stewart Island, in 2004 and 2005, to test whether they excluded Pacific rats (R. exulans) or Norway rats (R. norvegicus) or both from podocarp-broadleaf forest. As predators can influence habitat use in rodents, Pearl Island was selected because no mammalian predators of rodents are present. Rats were trapped in two other habitats to clarify rat distribution on the island and to obtain samples for stable isotope investigation of food partitioning within habitats. The experimental removal of ship rats failed, as Pacific rats were found to share forest and shrubland with ship rats. This result contrasted with the restricted distribution of Pacific rats on Stewart Island. Ship rats were ubiquitous, and appear to have been the dominant species in podocarp-broadleaf forest on Pearl Island. The largest species, the Norway rat, was trapped only on the foreshore of Pearl Island, but on Stewart Island it is more widespread. Ship rats and Norway rats were partitioning the coastal habitat by exploiting different food sources. Stable isotopic ratios (15N and 13C) in muscle samples from Norway rats revealed a strong marine signature, suggesting intensive foraging in the intertidal zone. Ship rats trapped in the same habitat exhibited mixed terrestrial and marine sources in their diet. There was little obvious partitioning between ship rats and Pacific rats in forest, except a possible delay in breeding in Pacific rats relative to ship rats. Whether Norway rats select the intertidal zone to forage, or were excluded from forest by ship rats is unknown, but competitive exclusion is likely. Estimated densities of rats were low (2.15.1 rats ha1 in forest, 1.42 rats ha1 in shrubland) and similar to other New Zealand sites with low soil fertility. Further research will be required to elucidate the roles of food quality, habitat structure and predation in facilitating habitat selection in these species.
24053729|The primary aim of a scientific investigation is to find the most likely model for a situation out of a host of alternative explanations. The strength of evidence provided by anecdote, logical argument, mathematical modelling, observation, and designed studies (manipulative and observational) are discussed and the effectiveness of randomisation and orthogonal designs in separating hypotheses compared. Pseudoreplication is shown to be often misunderstood. It consists of two concepts: the importance of adequate replication and the independence of the sampling units. While replication is necessary to separate out the effects of different factors and to provide an error term for inference, contrary to popular belief independence of sampling units is not necessary. Finally the interpretation of evidence is discussed and the distinction made between formal and informal generalisation to a population.
24060893|We evaluated the accuracy and precision of three population estimation methods (markresight, distance sampling and five-minute bird counts) for two populations of South Island robin (Petroica australis australis) of known size in the Eglinton Valley, Fiordland, over 5 years (March and August, 20052009). The performance of these population estimators was compared to known robin abundance derived from simultaneous territory mapping of individually marked birds. Markresight methods performed well with Bowden's estimator generating accurate and precise population size estimates and trends very similar to those obtained from territory mapping. Distance sampling estimates displayed significant positive bias and poor precision even though we could identify the general population trends derived from territory mapping at Knobs Flat and Walker Creek. Five-minute bird counts (and associated generalised linear mixed models) performed well when the assumption of constant detectability was met, and poorly when it was not. Such failures prevented robust inference and confounded longer-term trend analyses. As robins are attracted towards stationary observers, we recommend that they be counted from line transects rather than points. Whenever monitoring objectives demand accurate and unbiased estimates of population abundance, the monitoring methods used should explicitly account for incomplete detectability wherever possible.
24054753|The longevity of common geckos (Hoplodactylus maculatus) on predator-free Motunau Island, North Canterbury, was investigated. Sixteen of 133 individuals marked between 1967-75 were re-captured in the summer of 1996/97. A growth curve was generated to estimate the age of these geckos at first capture, and from this their age in 1996/97; 10 were estimated to be at least 36 years old. In this cool-temperate habitat, H. maculatus matures late and has a low annual reproductive output over an extended lifespan. This suggests that nearby mainland populations would be particularly slow to recover from the impacts of introduced mammalian predators.
24060752|The introduced brushtail possum (Trichosurus vulpecula) is the most important wildlife host of bovine tuberculosis in New Zealand and is considered to be a major environmental and agricultural pest. Dry grassland ecosystems in New Zealand include some of the least protected and most threatened native biota. Drylands cover 19% of the country, but there is little published information on the population density of invasive brushtail possums in these environments, and previous estimates are not bases on quantitative methods. We surveyed possum density in two open dry grassland habitats on hilly slopes in the southern South Island. One site had higher shrub and rock cover than the other. We used a spatially explicit capturemarkrecapture method to estimate possum density. Possum densities were slightly higher at the more shrubby and rocky site; estimates (SE) from capturemarkrecapture using maximum likelihood were 0.69 (0.05) per hectare, compared with 0.44 (0.03) per hectare in the less shrubby and rocky site. Density estimates were similar to those rocorded in radiata pine (Pinus radiata) and beech (Nothofagus spp.) forests in New Zealand, but were 5- to 29-fold lower than those in podocarpbroadleaved forest. Maximum likelihood home range estimates derived from spatial trap data were larger in the less shrubby and rocky site (54.07 ha cf. 36.19 ha). These home ranges are much larger than those recorded in native forest, and probably reflect the lower abundance and more patchy distribution of food resources and shelter in dryland environments. The ecological information provided here is useful for wildlife managers planning to target possum control in dryland environments.
24052674|Clubiona cambridgei is a short-sighted hunting spider that lives on bushes of New Zealand flax (Phormium tenax) and constructs silken nests within tunnels formed by rolled-up leaves. Intraspecific interactions in this species are integrally related to the use of nests. In laboratory observations, mating was never observed outside nests, although virgin females readily mated while inside their nests. A distinctive courtship preceded copulation in every case, and displays occurred also in other types of interactions. Interactions were more lengthy at than away from nests. Males cohabited in nests with subadult females. After the subadults moulted and matured, the males mated with them inside the nests. Vacant nests of adult and subadult females elicited courtship behaviour from males, and males discriminated between these nests and ones of males, immatures, and another species of spider, never courting at the latter three types. After being washed in ether, nests of females no longer elicited male courtship, suggesting that contact sex pheromones are involved.
24058111|Genetic diversity allows a population to adapt genetically to a changing environment or to buffer it against stochastic events such as harsh weather or disease outbreaks. Genetic diversity is therefore an important consideration in the development of management strategies for threatened populations around the world, with the possible exception of New Zealand, where species recovery programmes tend to focus on increasing population size while neglecting the maintenance of genetic diversity. Many of New Zealand's threatened species have relatively low genetic variation and consequently may still be at risk in the long-term due to reduced resilience even if the effects of introduced predators were eliminated. The three main factors affecting genetic diversity  genetic drift, inbreeding and population subdivision  are processes that potentially impact on many of our locally threatened species, but their effects tend to occur over a considerably broader timescale than ecological effects, and as such are much more difficult to detect and ultimately to justify additional resource spending towards. Our message is that genetic management of New Zealand threatened species should not take priority over other management concerns such as controlling predators or improving habitat quality, but it needs more attention than it currently receives. We recommend that genetic diversity be a fundamental component in long-term management strategies for threatened species, and that such strategies are made explicit within the New Zealand Department of Conservation's current species recovery plans so that the persistence of biodiversity becomes of key importance, as opposed to current approaches that seek solely to maximise representation.
24060744|The term territorial is used in a variety of ways and is rarely defined unambiguously, or tested empirically. Nevertheless, attributing it correctly has far-reaching implications for our understanding and management of populations. Territoriality is commonly attributed retrospectively, as a convenient description of spatial pattern without an a priori and operational definition and tests for territorial behaviour. It is distinguished from female-defence or male-dominance mating systems by the defence of resources, including space. Thus, territories are defined operationally by site-specific dominance and their boundaries are determined by spatial changes in an individual's success in agonistic interactions with competitors. A number of recent articles describe the reptile, tuatara (Sphenodon punctatus: Rhynchocephalia) as territorial and use Gans et al. (1984) and Gillingham et al. (1995) in support. Neither Gans et al. (1984), nor Gillingham et al. (1995), provided operational definitions of territoriality, or tested for territorial behaviour, however. Gillingham et al. (1995) also confused the concepts of home range and territory by using the former to define the latter. The recent literature on tuatara includes the same errors. Home ranges continue to be used to define territories without measures of spatially dependent, female-independent dominance, and even though body size relates positively to success in malemale competition and access to females, neither of these factors influences 'territory' size. Instead, territory-like artefacts such as range dispersion and fidelity have been used as evidence of territoriality, although they can also be products of female-defence and male-dominance mating systems. Measures of the frequency, intensity and outcomes of malemale conflict where proximity of females and a priori territory boundaries vary, or ideally are varied experimentally, are necessary to tease apart the influence of females, resources and male dominance in the tuatara mating system.
24056279|Nest success, the proportion of clutches resulting in one or more fledglings, is a key indicator for assessing the effect of management on bird populations. However, the figures reported for New Zealand populations are usually "apparent nest success", the number of successful nests divided by the total number found. Apparent nest success invariably overestimates the true success rate, and the degree of bias depends on the population and monitoring regime. Consequently, apparent nest success rates cannot be reliably compared. We used Stanley's (2000) method for estimating stage-specific daily survival probabilities for New Zealand robin (Patroica australis) nests at Tiritiri Matangi, Paengaroa, Boundary Stream and Pureora. We show how Stanley's method can be used to eliminate biases, to calculate point estimates and confidence intervals for nest success, and to model the factors affecting nest success. At Pureora, where monitoring was extremely intensive, the apparent overall nest success (39%) was close to that estimated from daily survival probabilities (37%). Apparent nest success rates were extremely biased for the other populations due to less intensive monitoring, with the bias exacerbated by changes in survival probabilities with season and/or stage of the nesting cycle. Modelling the data showed that failure rates were: (1) higher early in the breeding season for at least some mainland populations, (2) different for incubation and nestling stages, with the pattern depending on the season (early or late) and type of predator, and (3) substantially lowered by predator control at Pureora, with the impact varying between sites and stages. Taking these factors into account, the estimated nest success (and 95% confidence limits) was 60% (44-74) at Pureora after predator control, 47% (23-73) at Boundary Stream, 37% (26-49) at Tiritiri Matangi, 25% (11-48) at Paengaroa, and 25% (17-35) at Pureora without predator control.
24058210|In New Zealand, the European shrub gorse (Ulex europaeus) is becoming the initial post-disturbance shrub, replacing the native myrtaceous manuka (Leptospermum scoparium) and kanuka (Kunzea ericoides) scrub in this role. Change in the dominant vegetation is likely to affect the native invertebrate community. To quantify these changes, we compared the assemblages of four selected insect taxa (Coleoptera, Lepidoptera, and two groups of Diptera, the Tachinidae and the fungus gnats, represented in New Zealand by the families Ditomyiidae, Keroplatidae and Mycetophilidae) in neighboring stands of kanuka and gorse using Malaise and pitfall traps set during December. We sorted 34 387 specimens into 564 recognisable taxonomic units. Ordinations showed that insect assemblages associated with each habitat were distinct for all four insect groups. The gorse habitat was species rich compared with kanuka for tachinids, fungus gnats and Malaise-trapped beetles, and both habitats contained few adventive species. Many species were unique to each habitat. Some species loss might occur if the kanuka-dominated community continues to be replaced by gorse, but gorse is nevertheless considered to be valuable as a habitat for native invertebrates.
24060718|Pre-human New Zealand had some unusual feeding guilds of birds (e.g. the herbivorous moa fauna), thought to have developed as a result of the absence of a 'normal' mammal fauna. Insectivorous birds, on the other hand, are an integral part of all the world's ecosystems, regardless of the presence or absence of mammals. While it is acknowledged the overall predation impact from birds in New Zealand is unlikely to have differed greatly from elsewhere, the low impact of mammalian insectivores (apart from microbats), coupled with the presence of a specialised avian feeding guild that concentrated on ground-active prey, might have exerted certain unique selection pressures. Do New Zealand invertebrates reflect this? It would be necessary to compare the New Zealand invertebrate fauna with that of mammal-dominated lands in greater detail than is available today before we could assert whether any unique anti-predator characteristics have evolved. Knowledge of the insects that succumbed to extinction when mammals invaded New Zealand should provide clues to avian-adapted features that might have rendered them particularly vulnerable to introduced rodents. Predation by kiwi (Apteryx spp.), an extraordinarily mammal-like nocturnal bird, may to some extent have prepared the invertebrate fauna for the arrival of small mammals.
24060887|Since the Ornithological Society of New Zealand (OSNZ) was founded in 1939 its primary objective has been the collection and dissemination of information on New Zealand's birds. For 70 years the Society has maintained databases on all aspects of the behaviour, population sizes and movements of New Zealand's avifauna. This paper summarises what information members of the OSNZ collect and curate and discusses an Internet initiative (eBird) the Society has recently put in place to allow members to record observations and give researchers easy access to these data.
24056193|Ascarina lucida Hook.f. (Chloranthaceae) is a small tree species endemic to New Zealand. The distribution of A. lucida suggests an inability to survive severe frosts or droughts. Therefore, peaks in the abundance of A. lucida in pollen records have usually been interpreted as indicating periods of mild, moist climates. The environmental tolerance of A. lucida seedlings to climatic extremes was experimentally tested by exposing seedlings to frost, drought, and waterlogged soil conditions. This research confirms the sensitivity of A. lucida to climatic extremes. Ascarina lucida has a similar drought tolerance to Coprosma grandifolia, a species known to be drought intolerant; seedlings had considerable tolerance of waterlogged soils, but exhibited reduced root weights when severely waterlogged; and a frost of 2C resulted in complete mortality for seedlings sourced from lowland and submontane populations. Peaks in the abundance of A. lucida can be attributed, at least in part, to periods of warm, wet climate. However, the early successional nature of this species also suggests that disturbance regime plays an important role in regulating its distribution and abundance.
24052714|The levels of mineral elements in foliage of 10 Coprosma species growing in secondary forest in Dunedin were compared using canonical discriminant analysis. The results revealed distinctive patterns of nutrient accumulation separating divaricating and non-divaricating growth forms. Foliar concentrations of N, P and Na were higher in divaricating species, particularly those with small, membranous leaves, compared with small- and large-leaved non-divaricating species. The results are discussed in relation to herbivory and the current ecological niche of the different Coprosma species.
24052735|Numerical and spatial components of dispersion, and the activity of pukeko (Porphyrio p. melanotus) in swamp and pasture in coastal Manawatu, New Zealand, are described. Pukeko are concentrated in few locations during the autumn population peak, but are widely scattered in spring when the population size is minimum. Flocks are consistently larger in pasture than swamp; those of up to ten birds are more frequent in swamp, and those of 25 or more birds more frequent in pasture. In pasture, pukeko distribution and density declines outwards from the edge nearest to water. The suite of activities is similar in swamp and pasture but feeding is more frequent in pasture, and the main kinds of feeding employed vary in frequency between the habitats. Activity is labile, but feeding is interrupted less frequently than non-feeding behaviour. Use of swamp and pasture is discussed briefly. Pukeko grazing effects may be significant in autumn, but mainly in pasture close to water and cover.
24052394|Red deer (Cervus elaphus scoticus) and wapiti (C. e. nelsoni) colonised the Murchison Mountains in Fiordland National Park during the 1930s and 1940s. After the rediscovery of the rare, flightless bird the takahe (Notornis mantelli) in the area in 1948, efforts were made to control the numbers and dispersal of deer to protect the birds and their habitat. These early efforts were sufficient to halt the eruption of wapiti but not red deer, which by about 1960 had spread throughout the area. This caused considerable damage to the vegetation, despite a kill of at least 5000 deer before 1962. Hunting on foot was then intensified and since 1975 has been supplemented by shooting from helicopters. At least 17 000 deer have been shot in the area since 1948. Four surveys to estimate faecal-pellet densities have been carried out since 1969 and showed that deer numbers did not decline between 1969 and 1973; however, an increased shooting effort and the use of helicopters resulted in a 60% reduction by 1975. We estimate that the population size fell over this period from about 2040 deer to the present 815 deer. Deer have now largely deserted the once highly favoured subalpine scrub, and make far less use of the alpine grasslands and climax forests. However, no significant changes in density have occurred within the seral forests. The relationship between these changes in deer density and distribution and the known range use of the takahe are discussed.
24055300|The Chatham petrel (Pterodroma axillaris) is an endangered species, restricted to a single population on South East Island, Chatham Islands. The key threat to breeding success is loss of chicks as a result of interference by broad-billed prions (Pachyptila vittata) prospecting for burrows for their oncoming breeding season. The effectiveness in decreasing interference using an artificial burrow entrance flap was investigated. The flap exploits behavioural differences between the species. Chatham petrels have a high incentive to push through a flap due to their investment in their burrow and chick, while prospecting prions are influenced by ease of access when searching for potential burrows. This trial found 90% of Chatham petrels entered their burrows through the artificial flap. Flaps acted as barriers to broad-billed prions, where 22% entered the burrow through the flap (P < 0.01) compared to the control burrows. Artificial burrow flaps have the potential to provide a low cost, low labour strategy for protecting the known breeding population of Chatham petrels.
24052786|A significant recovery of food plants preferred by introduced deer (Cervus elaphus) occurred between 1969 and 1984 on 57 permanent plots in the alpine grasslands of northern Fiordland. During this period the deer population was reduced markedly by hunters operating from helicopters. Deer showed a strong preference for grasslands characterised by Chionochloa pallens and large-leaved herbs. These occur on fertile soils, and have shown the most recovery, especially at low altitude (c. 900-1100 m a.s.l.). Little change occurred in the less-favoured grasslands characterised by C. crassiuscula and C. acicularis on infertile soils. Several studies suggest the vegetation preferred by deer was some of the best former habitat of the takahe (Notornis mantelli), an endangered rail. Little competition from deer would now occur if takahe were reintroduced on to these sites, providing intensive aerial hunting continued.
24053638|Possible control options are investigated for the introduced Hieracium weeds, particular problems in South Island high country, New Zealand. In a pot experiment regression of input to output ratios of above ground biomass over successive harvests, from binary mixtures was used to determine the competitive interaction between 13 pasture species and two Hieracium species, H. pilosella and H. praealtum, in a low fertility soil. Treatments also included a factorial of presence or absence of compartments separating root and shoots of species. Species differed in their mean growth rate, relative to Hieracium species. The ranking of mean growth rate relative to H. pilosella was Trifolium repens (best), Bromus inermis, Sanguisorba minor, Festuca novae-zelandiae, F. rubra, Arrhenatherum elatius, Anthoxanthum odoratum, Lotus corniculatus, Hypochoeris radicata, Trifolium repens, T. hybridum, T. medium and Astragalus cicer. Shoot partitions decreased Hieracium's interaction with white clover while root partitions increased interaction with B. inermis. However, the rates were not related to the proportion of Hieracium in the mixtures, indicating a general lack of specific competitive effects against Hieracium.
24053606|Plant species preferences of birds were determined by comparing the proportional bird use of plant species during direct observations with the proportions of plant species present on point-height intercepts in lowland rimu (Dacrydium cupressinum) forest in North Okarito, Westland. Plant species and bird use of plant species were divided into 5 m height classes, and rimu trees were divided into four age classes (sapling, pole, mature, and old). The frugivorous New Zealand pigeon (Hemiphaga novaeseelandiae) used mature and old rimu more than expected from the proportion of these age classes present, and it preferred the upper tiers of the forest. The omnivorous tui (Prosthemadera novaeseelandiae) had similar preferences to the pigeon. Other omnivorous species, viz., the bellbird (Anthornis melanura) and silvereye (Zosterops lateralis), shared preferences with both the pigeon and insectivorous species. Most insectivorous species, viz., the brown creeper (Mohoua novaeseelandiae), grey warbler (Gerygone igata), New Zealand fantail (Rhipidura fuliginosa), New Zealand tomtit (Petroica macrocephala), and rifleman (Acanthisitta chloris), used pole rimu more than expected and preferred the middle and lowest tiers. The insectivorous New Zealand robin (Petroica australis) had no preference for any plant species but had a strong preference for deadwood and the lowest tier of the forest. Of the 10 species sufficiently abundant to be monitored, the pigeon, bellbird, and tui are most likely to be detrimentally affected by selective-logging of mature and old rimu.
24054744|Changes in Hieracium abundance in Eastern Otago tussock grassland were examined by sampling 163 sites in 1982 and again in 1992. For Hieracium pilosella, H. praealtum and H. lepidulum, as well as Agrostis capillaris for comparison, colonisation of new sites was recorded, as well as extinction of species from sites over the 10 years, and changes in cover. H. pilosella colonised the majority of sites from which it had been absent in 1982; it disappeared from only a few sites where it had been present at very low cover. In sites where it remained over the decade, its cover increased by 50%. Its rate of increase was very similar to that recorded for North Canterbury, but with no indication of the 34% stabilisation point that has been hypothesised for the latter area. H. praealtum and H. lepidulum, in contrast, remained absent from most sites, and colonised only a few; in very few sites was their cover greater than 1%. Agrostis capillaris was widespread and abundant, but increased little over the period. The sites where H. pilosella colonised tended to be degraded, with a greater, and increasing, percentage of bare ground and low tussock cover. The few sites where it disappeared were ones where pasture improvement had occurred, as seen in the increase of species indicative of pasture development. Several explanations are considered for the increase in H. pilosella in recent decades. The increase of this species in Eastern Otago has been greater than that of most other exotic species. Changes in land management have contributed to its increase, but probably changes caused indirectly by government policy, not gradual degradation. Genetic changes in the species, and metapopulation dynamics, have not been investigated, but they could well have contributed to Hieracium invasion.
24052385|New records indicate an expanded distribution of Litoria ewingi in the Manawatu district. Frogs called in every month of the year, at all air temperatures between 0C and 21C. Between February 1973 and July 1976 the following events were seen or inferred: nuptial pads and spawn from April to December, amplexus from April to November, tadpoles throughout the year, and newly-emerged frogs (mean length 12.3 mm) from November to May. In three cases, tadpoles grew and metamorphosed in about four months. High densities of whistling frogs in small ponds may reflect an absence of competition from other species of frog.
24052716|Meteorological data from stations around and within the Kaimai Ranges and data from temporary sites are used to characterise the climate of the ranges. Lowland climate is warm temperate with ample rainfall but the upland region is cooler, wetter and frequently enveloped in fog. Frequent fog plays an important part in the climate of upland regions. By modifying light, moisture and temperature regimes fog may be a significant determinant of plant associations and may severely restrict growth. The absence of fog during prolonged drought may accentuate plant water stresses and appears to play a significant role in the occurrence and location of forest mortality.
24056341|Intraspecific foster feeding and adoption has rarely been observed in birds, with the exception of waterfowl. In this study, I document for the first time the existence of intraspecific foster feeding and adoption of fledglings by adult passerines with their own young. During a three-year study of the North Island robin (Petroica longipes), a species with very low levels of extra-pair paternity, eight fledglings (4% of the fledglings in the population the study years) were fed by adults other than their parents, with four of these being adopted. In cases of foster feeding and adoption in this species: 1) adopted fledglings came from parents with lower feeding rates than the population average; 2) the territories of adopting/foster parents were of higher quality than the fledglings original parents' territories; 3) in all cases the adopting/foster-feeding parent was a male; 4) adoption of a fledgling was associated with a very low survival of the foster parent's own fledglings; 5) the original parents of the adopted fledglings had a higher reproductive output than the general population. Although the frequency of adoption/foster-feeding was very low, the findings suggest that both the original parents and the fledglings may have a fitness payoff from this behaviour with the fledgling most likely being the active participant. Foster parents appear to be victims of this phenomenon, with it reducing their life-time reproductive output. This begs the question of why selection does not act to improve recognition of one's own young. One possibility is that males are trapped in a situation where better discrimination of offspring is more costly than any benefits it may bring. To better understand the complex phenomenon and possible adaptive explanations for adoption, the perspective of all participants, juveniles, original parents and the foster parents, need to be considered.
24056362|For two summer/autumn periods (1999, 2000), we studied the movements and survival of feral ferrets (Mustela furo L.) at a site in North Canterbury that had been previously subjected to intensive control of ferrets. Movement distances of juvenile ferrets from the place of initial to final capture were generally low (median =1.2 km) though variable [$\bar{X}$=2.51.0 (S.E.M.), range 0.121.7 km]. The estimated instantaneous mortality rate of juvenile ferrets was high ($\bar{X}$ = 0.8 yr1), though imprecise (95% C.I. 0.41.8 yr1), as was that of adult ferrets ($\bar{X}$=1.1 yr1, 95% C.I. 0.34.5yr1). Summer/autumn home ranges of adult ferrets in North Canterbury were larger than estimates from comparable studies. The density of ferrets during May was 1.7 km2 in the first year and 2.5 km2 in the second year. This corresponded with a trend for juvenile movements to increase, and juvenile survival rates to decrease. Our results suggest that formal studies to determine whether movements and survival of juvenile ferrets are density-dependent are warranted.
24052002|Floristics of Vittadinia triloba communities in Central Otago and the upper Waitaki valley and Rumex acetosella communities in the upper Waitaki, are compared with each other and with similar communities elsewhere in the South Island. Many species are common to all semi-arid areas, but each area has as its own special features, either the presence of a particular species or the greater abundance of a widespread species. The recent increase in Vittadinia triloba is thought to be due to a combination of reduced rabbit grazing pressure, changing land and stock management and recent droughts.
24056165|One of the strongest patterns in the historical record of biological control is that programmes targeted against lepidopteran pests have been far less successful than those targeted against homopteran pests. Despite fueling considerable interest in the theory of hostparasitoid interactions, biological control has few unifying principles and no theoretical basis for understanding the differential pattern of success against these two pest groups. Potential explanations considered here include competitive limitation of natural enemy establishment, the influence of antagonistic parasitoid interactions, generation time ratio, and gregarious parasitoid development. An analysis of the biological control record showed that on average six natural enemies have been introduced per pest for both pest groups, providing no evidence of a differential intensity of competition. Similarly, use of a discrete time hostparasitoid model showed that antagonistic interactions that are common among parasitoids of Lepidoptera should not limit the success of biological control as such interactions can readily be counteracted by host refuge breaking. A similar model showed that a small generation time ratio (coupled with a broad window of host attack) and gregarious development can facilitate the suppression of pest abundance by parasitoids, and both were found to be positively associated with success in the biological control record. Of the four explanations considered here, generation time ratio coupled with a broad window of host attack appears to provide the best explanation for the differential pattern of success.
24060901|To make sense of how nature is responding to an increasingly rapidly changing world, a lot of species distribution and abundance data are needed. To infer population trends, these data ideally need to be collected in a standardised, repeatable manner that includes 'absence' data on species sought for but not found. If many people, even just professional ecologists and postgraduate students, are to record biodiversity frequently in their daily lives, a convenient method that meets these requirements is needed. A method is presented here that has been employed by the author since 2003 to frequently record a predefined subset of bird species along standard routes and locations. The approach is a hybrid of the five-minute bird count and slow-walk transect methods, designed for high frequency use while the observer is stationary and moving respectively. Predetermined subsets of bird species are recorded in 20-min intervals, often consecutively, each with one nested 5-min interval. N-mixture models now allow for abundance and detection probability to be statistically separated from such simple high frequency, pseudo-replicated count data. Nearly 100 000 bird counts have been collected using this method, plus many more 'sought but not found' records. The value of this simple, high frequency monitoring approach is demonstrated by summarising data from one location, one weekly route, and one daily route for three widespread native forest birds. These show striking patterns of seasonality and biotope use in urban and rural Christchurch. Hence this approach, if widely adopted, could provide a valuable resource for bird monitoring.
24052607|Population studies of grass grub and black beetle have revealed simple patterns of population determination. Populations fluctuate in response to variations in soil moisture and temperature. The upper limit to population growth is set by density dependent factors (larval mortality of grass grub and variation in natality of black beetle). Parasites and predators appear to be generally unimportant, but disease organisms may be potentially useful in the management of grass grub and black beetle populations. Black beetle outbreaks occur sporadically following warm springs whereas grass grub tends to be a more persistent problem. In areas such as the Waikato and Bay of Plenty where both species can occur as pasture pests, years in which the weather is favourable for black beetle population growth are unfavourable for grass grub. Population models have been developed which accurately describe the general patterns of grass grub and black beetle population change and can account for the observed effects of varying the application time of transient soil insecticides.
24054752|Stoat (Mustela erminea) density was estimated by live-trapping in a South Island Nothofagus forest, New Zealand, at 8-9 (Jan/Feb 1996) and 15-16 (Aug/Sep 1996) month intervals after significant beech seedfall in autumn 1995. Absolute densities were 4.2 stoats km2 (2.9-7.7 stoats km2, 95% confidence intervals) in Jan/Feb 1996 and 2.5 stoats km2 (2.1-3.5 stoats km2) in Aug/Sep 1996. Trappability of stoats increased in the latter sampling period, probably because mice (Mus musculus) had become extremely scarce. Accordingly, trapping rates of stoats may vary temporally and spatially with food supply rather than only with absolute abundance. Ship rats (Rattus rattus) capture rates doubled between Jan/Feb 1996 and Aug/Sep 1996, but rapidly declined shortly afterwards. Trappability of ship rats also increased in the latter sampling period. These factors must be considered when planning methods of indexing relative densities of stoats and rats.
24054771|The results of a programme to monitor the containment and natural breakdown of approximately 12 000 kg of toxic vertebrate pest bait, containing compound 1080 (sodium monofluroacetate), in a landfill site are reported. The baits were buried in a purpose-dug pit in a managed solid waste disposal site at Winton in central Southland, New Zealand, in August 1996. Compound 1080 is used extensively in a bait form to control a range of introduced vertebrate pests, (e.g., European rabbit, Australian brush tailed possum), which cause considerable economic and environmental damage in New Zealand. Two shallow monitor bores, sited 5 and 13 m from the disposal pit, were sampled weekly for five weeks and thereafter monthly for 13 months. Analyses detected 1080 in 5 of the 28 groundwater/leachate samples. The 1080 concentrations in those samples, except for one result, were low. These were either below or close to the Ministry of Health provisional maximum acceptable value standards (PMAV) for drinking water, currently 0.005g ml1. The concentrations of 1080 in groundwater in the more distant bore (13 m) were markedly lower than those in the nearer bore (5 m). 1080 was first detected in the near bore after 5 weeks and the more distant bore after 16 weeks. The level and frequency of incidence of 1080 in both holes decreased over the sampling period until none was detected after 10 months. In situ sampling of the residual waste material indicated the 1080 concentration in the disposal pit decreased to less than 10% of its original level in 12 months. The active anaerobic bacterial processes operating in the organic refuse pile appear to provide an ideal environment for the rapid natural breakdown of 1080. The findings will assist with the setting of conditions for resource consents concerning the disposal of materials containing 1080 in landfill sites.
24054763|Toxins, especially sodium monofluoroacetate (1080) and brodifacoum, are widely used throughout New Zealand for control of introduced mammals that are considered pests. This level of toxin use (not necessarily with these toxins) is unlikely to decline for at least 510 years. Ecological consequences derive both from mammal population reduction or eradication, and from using toxins as the control method. Scientists have not examined the net ecological outcomes of these consequences at the community level due to their daunting complexity, although managers usually manipulate whole communities and key conservation legislation demands that they do so. A food web could be a useful conceptual framework to generate hypotheses about toxin movement through communities, and to explore net outcomes of pest control at the community level. It could also sharpen objectives for ecosystem restoration on the New Zealand mainland, and help to find common ground between different participants in ecosystem management. We interpret present evidence to suggest that the ecological costs of using toxins are much less than the damage costs if they are not used, due to the magnitude of known impacts of introduced pest mammals. This suggestion deserves exploration; it may not be true when persistent toxins such as brodifacoum are used repeatedly. Research on toxin use should continue on its present broad front, but we suggest that priorities are to measure net ecological outcomes at the community level, to reduce toxin use, and to improve pest control strategies and techniques in the maintenance phase of control operations. Finally, we suggest that an annual ecosystem management conference in New Zealand, which explicitly brings together managers, policymakers, landowners, and scientists from the many disciplines now relevant to the complex field of pest mammal control, would enhance progress and co-operation.
24058216|This study examined how forest edges, fruit display size, and fruit colour influenced rates of seed dispersal in an endemic, bird-dispersed, New Zealand mistletoe species, Alepis flavida. To examine rates of seed dispersal, fruit removal rates were compared between plants growing on forest edges and in forest interior, and also between two morphs of plants with different coloured fruits. Two aspects of fruit display size were examined: plant size and the neighbourhood of conspecific plants. There was no overall difference in fruit removal rates on forest edges and in forest interior, but birds removed fruits from red-fruited plants at a faster rate than from orange-fruited plants. Proximity of plant neighbours interacted with edges to influence fruit removal rates. The smaller the distance to nearest neighbours, the greater the fruit removal rates for orange-fruited plants in both habitats, but this relationship was significant for red-fruited plants only in the interior. Plant size affected fruit removal rates for orange-fruited plants, but not for red-fruited plants, and these differences were consistent in both habitats. Thus, fruit colour had the strongest effects on rates of fruit removal in this system, but forest edges also affected fruit removal rates, via altering the effects of neighbouring plants. Although birds prefer red fruits, there appears to be little selection pressure against orange-fruited plants because fruit removal rates are very high for both morphs.
24054470|The Humped-back theory of plant species richness, a theory related to Grime's C-S-R 'triangular' model, has been widely discussed, and some evidence has been claimed in support of it. The theory suggests that species richness is maximal at intermediate levels of productivity, i.e., at intermediate positions on a stress/favourability gradient. We sought evidence for the theory from 90 stands of native podocarp/broadleaved and beech forest in the Coastal Otago region, with an adjustment made for the effect of stand area on species richness. There was no relation between adjusted species richness and an index of site stress/favourability, i.e., no support for the Humped-back theory. The theory may be inapplicable to woody vegetation, or it may be applicable only when the 'favourable' end of the spectrum comprises agricultural communities, or support for the theory might be inflated in the literature by a wish to find ecological generalisations.
24053655|A range of slack vegetation in southern New Zealand was described by detailed sampling of four dune slacks, contrasting in topographic situation and in vegetation. Comparison is made with a slack previously sampled on Stewart Island. The five slacks differed markedly in the plant communities present. One slack, where there was considerable peat accumulation, was dominated by the megaherb Phormium tenax and the restiad Leptocarpus similis. In another, the peat was deep and had apparently accumulated over a long period; the vegetation contained the trunked sedge Carex secta and was similar in species composition to carr vegetation described from the region. These two slacks were predominantly native in species composition, though the European Erica lusitanica was a component at the second. The other two slack sites were on substrate largely comprising sand; the vegetation was shorter, and included a mixture of native and exotic species. Many of the exotic species found in these sites have been recorded in European slacks. Communities were defined by Cluster analysis. With rare exceptions, each plant community was specific to one or another of the five sites. Even the few community/site overlaps were in the vegetation of the surrounding dune areas, not of the slack itself. The communities within a site generally formed discrete zones, related to small differences in elevation. The environment was characterised in terms of elevation, water table level, and soil salinity (chloridity), organic content, pH, physical texture and fertility (assessed by bioassay). There were varying amounts of organic matter accumulation, but the mineral part of the substrate was almost pure sand throughout, except that at one site a stream had brought in silt. In three of the sites, the mineral base was below high tide level. The water table fluctuated through the year, with the same pattern as described for Northern Hemisphere slacks. Chloridity was low, but varied through the year. Some features of the yearly variation could be related to weather events. It is concluded that slacks in the area show considerable variation in vegetation, much of which can be correlated with peat accumulation.
24052600|An analysis of New Zealand's vegetation cover is presented, based on vegetation information from the New Zealand Land Resource Inventory. This survey, undertaken between 1973 and 1979, recorded vegetation in homogeneous land inventory map units as part of a physical resource inventory, using a classification of 45 vegetation components covering indigenous and introduced vegetation cover. The analysis is presented within the framework of a classification of New Zealand's vegetation cover, which is a functional grouping of the most common combinations of vegetation mapped. The classification emphasises the number of significant components of vegetation cover within map units rather than their importance or dominance. The total of 6 863 different combinations of vegetation cover recorded in 89 875 map units have been aggregated into 232 primary units of vegetation cover, termed vegetation cover categories. These were grouped into 88 vegetation cover classes and 11 vegetation cover groups. The latter, identifying the components of New Zealand's vegetation cover at the broadest level were as follows: grassland (22.5% of the New Zealand land area), grassland-cropland (8.2%), scrubland and fernland (2.2%), forest (18.3%), forest-scrub (7.7%), grassland-scrub (26%), grassland with forest (3%), forest with grassland (0.7%), grassland-scrub-forest (5.3%), miscellaneous (2.2%), no vegetation (3.9%). The analysis is briefly discussed and compared with other available information. The comparatively detailed analysis of grassland and scrubland vegetation has revealed the large extent of mixed vegetation cover, especially grassland-scrub mixtures. It is concluded that the analysis confirms the dynamic and complex nature of New Zealand's present vegetation cover.
24060828|The anticoagulant rodenticide brodifacoum is widely used to eradicate invasive rats from islands for the protection and restoration of populations of native species. However, brodifacoum is also highly toxic to birds. We report the first apparent case of secondary brodifacoum exposure and subsequent poisoning in nestlings of an insectivorous passerine, the Stewart Island robin (Petroica australis rakiura). Thirteen dead nestlings were collected 34 months after brodifacoum bait was applied to eradicate rats from Ulva Island, New Zealand. Twelve of these composite nestling samples contained moderate concentrations of brodifacoum (mean = 0.080.02 g g1; range = 0.0110.28 g g1) at levels comparable with those associated with mortality in adult birds of other species (0.2 g g1 in liver), which suggests exposure in the robin nestlings was lethal. However, we were unable to determine the definitive cause(s) of death because sampling of dead nestlings was opportunistic and we were unable to test live nestlings for residue as a comparison. The period between brodifacoum application and mortality in the nestlings (5292 days) implicates secondary poisoning. Our results highlight the potential role of invertebrates as vectors of anticoagulant rodenticides in the environment, as well as the need for further research on this exposure pathway.
24054510|Baited pitfall traps were used to sample Oligosoma maccanni and Oligosoma nigriplantare polychroma at Birdlings Flat, on Kaitorete Spit, Canterbury, New Zealand. The two species of skink showed distinctive patterns of habitat use with O. maccanni being almost entirely confined to dunelands while O. n. polychroma was invariably captured in the shrub-covered terraces behind the dunes. This is in direct contrast to what has been documented for these species in central Otago. Habitat partitioning appears to have also influenced the patterning and colouration of the two species which is also opposite to what has been documented for these species in Central Otago. Other factors examined did not show the same degree of deviation from what has been documented for these species elsewhere. The Birdlings Flat populations of O. maccanni and O. n. polychroma are diurnally active summer breeders, and dietary generalists.
24056320|Natural regeneration on waste rock was investigated at the old Wangaloa coal mine, south-east Otago. A 450-m long waste rock stack had been created 4050 years ago, and has had little anthropogenic intervention since. The stack is made up of a gradient of three main waste rock types, defined as 'silt-rich', 'mixed', and 'quartz-rich', which reflect different proportions of loess siltstone and quartz gravel conglomerate. Plant species assemblages were quantified in four 5-m2 quadrats in each waste rock type. Invertebrates were heat extracted from substrate cores (7 cm diameter; depth 5 cm) collected from quadrats over an eight-week period in spring 2003. Ordination analysis showed statistically distinct plant and invertebrate assemblages had arisen on each waste rock type. Revegetation patterns were dominated by native, woody individuals on all waste rock types, particularly manuka (Leptospermum scoparium) and kanuka (Kunzea ericoides). Plant cover on 'silt-rich' waste rock was four-fold that on 'quartz-rich' waste rock. Total numbers of invertebrates were highest on 'quartz-rich' waste rock, but richness greatest on 'silt-rich' waste rock. Collembola dominated the fauna but their numbers were proportionally greatest in poorly vegetated areas. Further work is required to explain the absence of plants and invertebrates from local areas of waste rock.
24060711|Since the 1980s, morphological and molecular research has resulted in significant advances in understanding the relationships and origins of the recent terrestrial vertebrate fauna in the New Zealand biogeographic region. This research has led to many taxonomic changes, with a significant increase in the number of bird and reptile species recognised. It has also resulted in the recognition of several more Holocene (<10 000 years ago) bird species extinctions. The conclusion that Holocene extinctions were primarily caused by human-hunting and predation by other introduced mammals (particularly rats and cats) has been supported by new data. Despite many local eradications of introduced pests, the number of introduced species has increased, with the establishment of five more foreign birds and (on Norfolk Island) the house gecko (Hemidactylus frenatus). Many new, significant New Zealand Vertebrate fossils have been reported, including more dinosaurs from the Cretaceous, and the first Tertiary records of frogs, rhynchocephalids, lizards, crocodylians, bats and a terrestrial "Mesozoic ghost" mammal from the Early Miocene near St Bathans. For birds, the earliest known penguins in the world have been discovered, and there are intriguing Late Cretaceous  Early Paleocene remains still awaiting detailed description. Other significant Tertiary bird fossils reported include a rich avifauna from the Early Miocene St Bathans sites and a small terrestrial fauna from the Early Pleistocene near Marton. In line with the traditional theory, new research has supported the vicariant Gondwanan origin of some distinctive New Zealand terrestrial vertebrates, such as leiopelmatid frogs, tuatara and moa, and the immigration of many others, including New Zealand wattlebirds and piopio, during the Cenozoic. Extinctions caused by an asteroid impact and climate fluctuations probably explain the absence of many groups, such as crocodylians, dinosaurs, monotremes, palaelodids and swiftlets, from the modern fauna.
24052814|Forest containing rata (Metrosideros umbellata) and kamahi (Weinmannia racemosa), with scattered trees of silver beech (Nothofagus menziesii), was sampled on Cedar Hill, Owaka Valley, Catlins Ecological Region. Diameter frequency distributions, age estimates, and basal area measurements show single cohort establishment of rata and kamahi, whereas three establishment phases of silver beech are evident. Tree population structures, the presence of many large dead and decaying manuka (Leptospermum scoparium) stems, and the absence of evidence of windthrow or landslip, suggest that the vegetation originated 250-300 years ago as a result of fire. Initially, manuka and a few silver beech established together. Natural opening of the manuka canopy 50-100 years later allowed invasion by rata, kamahi and a second cohort of beech. A third episode of beech establishment occurred about 70 years ago. Eventually forest structure will be similar to that of adjacent older, more diverse forest.
24052682|A survey of matai (Podocarpus spicatus)/totara (Podocarpus totara var. waihoensis) forest in South Westland recorded that c. 600 ha of these forests remain from a possible former 43,000 ha. Basal discs cut from logged or windthrown matai and totara showed a strong linear relationship between diameter and age (annual growth rings). Detailed surveys of stands showed grouping of size class distributions, reflecting the seral nature of these forests. A pattern of continuous regeneration of matai/totara forests in the region for at least the last 400 years is apparent and there is no evidence of any climatically-induced regeneration gap. Widespread grazing has destroyed much recent regeneration, particularly of matai. The reservation of the remaining stands of matai/totara forest is advocated as a matter of urgency since 25% of the remaining forests in South Westland have been logged or cleared in the last two years.
24060767|Determination of clade membership is a crucial requirement for many research questions addressing phylogeography, population structure, mating patterns, speciation, and hybridisation. The little blue penguin (Eudyptula minor) can be separated into two deeply divergent clades. However, assigning clade membership in little blue penguins requires molecular methods. Genetic sequencing can be used to identify clade membership but is expensive. Here, we present an economical alternative to the use of sequencing to determine little blue penguin clade membership. We extracted DNA from feathers using a method that produced reasonable quantities of DNA. We then amplified the D-loop section of the mitochondrial control region from total genomic DNA extracts, using the primers 'C L-tRNAglu' and 'D H-Dbox' followed by digestion with the restriction enzyme AluI. When visualised on a gel, distinctive banding patterns clearly indicated clade membership. We sequenced a subset of our samples and verified the accuracy of this method. The methods we present should facilitate little blue penguin research through a cost-effective approach to clade analysis as well as a successful technique to extract DNA from feathers when blood or tissue samples are not available.
24060830|New Zealand's subantarctic Antipodes Islands are of international significance for breeding seabirds. However, penguin populations on the islands are declining. Uncertainty about the extent of this decline has been accentuated by a lack of accurate information on the population size and nest distribution of the penguin species, and the absence of an appropriate methodology for their long-term monitoring. We surveyed the nest abundance and distribution of eastern rockhopper penguins (Eudyptes filholi) and erect-crested penguins (E. sclateri) on the Antipodes Islands from 22 October to 6 November 2011 and compared counts with historical censuses from 1978 to 1995. Presence or absence of colonies previously known to have existed was recorded and counts of all nests within colonies around the islands were undertaken. In total, 42 689 nests of both species were counted over 103 colonies. Of these, 86% of nests (2475 rockhopper and 34 226 erect-crested) were counted accurately from on land. Overall, 24 entire colonies have ceased to exist since 1978, and there was an estimated 23% decline in the number of penguin nests between 1995 and 2011. Despite differences in methodology between surveys, there appears to have been a significant decline in penguins nesting on the Antipodes Islands. Worldwide, most crested penguin species (Eudyptes spp.) are in decline. Since New Zealand is a world hotspot for endemic penguin species, a consistent monitoring system needs to be developed and a monitoring schedule put in place to allow quantification of the scale of these declines. The causes of the declines on the Antipodes also need to be investigated, as they are unlikely to be a result of on-land predation by introduced mammals and human habitat disturbance or destruction, as occurs on the New Zealand mainland.
24052639|The "Wahine" Storm in April 1968 destroyed the beds of aquatic macrophytes in Lake Ellesmere, South Island, New Zealand and the resident population of black swans (Cygnus atratus) has since declined by at least 75%. Extensive breeding failure, poor cygnet survival, increased adult mortality, and permanent emigration, all responses to the diminished food supply, and intensive hunting, have contributed to this decline. The population in January 1978 was estimated to be 9 500, only one-third of which was less than 10 years of age. It is predicted that over the next four years the breeding component of the population will decline by about 50%. The methods by which the North Canterbury Acclimatisation Society has managed the swan population before and since the storm are discussed and suggestions for future management made.
24053635|We examined possum trapping data collected from 1945 to 1989 in the Pararaki catchment to assess whether there was any evidence for a major natural decline in possum numbers several decades after colonisation and whether the population has subsequently shown any long-term trend in abundance. The catchment was probably colonised by possums around 1915-20. We found evidence for a major decline (c. 80%) in possum numbers between 1945 and 1965. There was no significant trend in our trap catches from 1965 to 1976, but in 1977 there was a further abrupt decline. The next decade was characterised by a progressive increase in possum numbers, which by 1989 reached a level slightly below that during the stable period 1965-76. We suggest that the population now experiences irregular fluctuations around a more-or-less stable equilibrium abundance. Our data thus support cautious application of the irruptive fluctuation model (sensu Riney, 1964) to possums, which have some of the demographic characteristics of larger ungulate herbivores.
24058126|We developed a capture-mark-recapture protocol for measuring the population density (D) of ship rats (Rattus rattus) in forest. Either mesh cage traps or Elliott box traps were set at each of six sites (48 traps per site for 5 nights) in the Orongorongo Valley on two occasions in autumn 2003. Cage traps only were set at three sites in autumn 2004. Rats were caught much more readily in cage traps than in Elliott traps and none were recaptured in Elliott traps. Additional food, bedding and trap covers reduced mortality and interference with traps. To estimate density we fitted a spatial detection model; this method avoids the need to estimate effective trapping area. Estimates were based on both a model assuming equal capture probability ($\hat{D}_{0}$) and a model incorporating temporal and individual variation ($\hat{D}_{th}$). Our target for precision was CV($\hat{D}$)  20%, but when data were pooled from multiple sites with cage traps, CV($\hat{D}_{th}$) was 30%. Estimated density of rats ($\hat{D}_{th}$) was 5 ha1 in 2003 and 9 ha1 in 2004; these estimates did not differ significantly. The overall capture index in 2004 was 31 rats per 100 corrected trap-nights on snap-trap lines set after live trapping. House mice were caught in both types of live trap, but at rates high enough for density estimation only where Elliott traps were used. Field estimates of detection functions for rats captured with cage traps allowed us to simulate the performance of alternative trapping systems. We predict that a 64-trap layout at three sites with five trapping occasions would yield acceptable precision of $\hat{D}_{th}$(2023%) at the observed rat densities. Our use of $\hat{D}_{th}$ was conservative; slightly higher precision may be achieved by assuming constant trappability ($\hat{D}_{0}$), and future work may justify this assumption.
24060761|Te Paki Ecological District in Northland is regarded as a New Zealand biodiversity hotspot, but habitat loss and forest fragmentation have adversely affected many of its endemic species. We investigated the distribution and habitat associations of Mecodema tenaki (Coleoptera: Carabidae), a Te Paki endemic ground beetle whose threat status was recently changed from 'Nationally Critical' to 'Declining'. Manual searching and pitfall trapping (live-capture and lethal) were used to detect the species at 46 sites in three habitat types: native forest, pine plantation and shrubland. Between 2006 and 2010, 41 individuals were found at five locations in the east of the district, significantly increasing individual and locality records for the species. Efficacy of both forms of pitfall trapping for determining presence/absence of M. tenaki was extremely high, whereas manual searching had lower sensitivity. Beetles were only found in structurally heterogeneous native forest with a closed canopy, including edge zones. All beetles were found at sites underlain by rocks of the Parengarenga Group (mainly Kaurahoupo Conglomerate); however, neither forest community composition nor soil properties were good predictors of beetle presence. The most important factor influencing the present distribution of M. tenaki is likely to have been anthropogenic habitat disturbance. Our study shows that lethal trapping methods are not essential for studying or monitoring this threatened species. It also shows that retaining and managing even very small native forest fragments within its historical range may be important for the protection of the species, and that a site-based rather than a single-species approach is likely to be the most effective management strategy. The possibility of relocating beetles to suitable, presently unoccupied locations should not be discounted. Our results indicate that a threat ranking of 'Nationally Vulnerable' rather than 'Declining' may be more appropriate for the species.
24053305|Replacement patterns under buddleia (Buddleja davidii) groves aged between 2 and 17 years were studied in streambeds in the western Ikawhenua Range and in the upper Waioeka catchment, Te Urewera National Park. Height and basal diameter growth followed an exponential pattern, with rapid early growth (0.5 m/year and 1 cm/year respectively), levelling off after 15 years or more. Intense self-thinning occurred in younger stands. Typical forest floor vegetation was developing within 15 years of colonisation by buddleia. Seedlings of ten indigenous trees and shrubs were widespread under buddleia, with primary colonising species (e.g. Hebe stricta, Kunzea ericoides) more common under young stands, and other seral species (e.g. Pseudopanax arboreus, Melicytus ramiflorus, Aristotelia serrata) more common under older stands. Buddleia quickly displaces primary native colonisers, herbaceous and woody, where it occurs en masse, accelerating successions to forest on fresh alluvium by replacing longer-lived species such as K. ericoides. It is a very effective coloniser of new surfaces, and is likely to continue spreading in the Park and persist indefinitely in lowland catchments subject to frequent flooding and alluviation.
24060788|Sowing 1080 baits for vertebrate pest control in clusters, rather than evenly, could potentially reduce toxin use. We developed a new technique for aerial delivery of 1080 baits in clusters and, in a set of four trials, compared its efficacy in controlling pests against conventional aerial broadcast baiting. In an initial trial where non-toxic prefeeding was not used (Molesworth Station, North Canterbury) we confirmed that aerial delivery of bait clusters is technically feasible and operationally practical. The reductions in possum activity indices achieved with cluster sowing (98.4%) were similar to those achieved with broadcasting sowing (97.8%), despite using 60% less 1080 bait (1 kg ha1). Comparable efficacy against possums was also recorded in the Landsborough Valley, Westland, where aligned prefeeding and an even lower sowing rate of toxic bait were used (0.25 kg ha1). In a third trial (Isolated Hill, Marlborough) the same cluster-sowing approach resulted in large reductions in possum and rat activity indices, but the possum reductions were more spatially variable than with broadcast baiting. At Maruia, Westland, near-total reductions in possum and rat activity were recorded with both broadcast and cluster sowing, even when there was a longer than usual interval (>30 days) between the aligned prefeeding and cluster baiting, and even when a wide (150 m) helicopter-flight-path spacing was used to reduce the cluster sowing rate of toxic bait to just 0.17 kg ha1 (92% lower than the broadcast sowing rate used). These trials suggest that cluster baiting at lower-than-usual sowing rates could lower operational costs, and substantially reduce toxin usage, while maintaining high control efficacy against rats and possums in most cases. Reduced use of toxin might go some way to allaying public concerns over 1080 usage. Further operational testing is required to refine aerial cluster baiting and to identify the optimal balance between lowering costs and toxin use yet consistently achieving high control efficacy.
24054475|Populations of four species of carnivores were sampled over the five years 1983-87 at Pureora Forest Park, by regular three-monthly Fenn trap index lines supplemented with occasional control campaigns by shooting and additional traps. Stoats were the most frequently collected (63 captures), followed by weasels (18), cats (15) and ferrets (13). Stoats ranged throughout the mosaic of forest types but especially the older exotic blocks, hunting rabbits, rats, possums and birds. The mean age of 55 stoats trapped was 15 months, and their maximum life span about 5 years. The age-specific mortality rate of first year stoats was about 0.76, and the proportion of older stoats (>1 year) declined from 52% of 21 killed in summer/autumn of 1983 to 27% of 22 killed in the same seasons of 1984-87. Weasels were collected mainly from habitats favouring mice, such as a young plantation and the road verges, and 40% of 15 non-empty weasel guts contained mice. Cats and ferrets hunted the native forest blocks where their main prey, rats and possums, were abundant. The body sizes and reproductive patterns of mustelids at Pureora were similar to those recorded in podocarp-broadleaf forests elsewhere in New Zealand.
24060877|The last remaining natural population of the critically endangered takahe (Porphyrio hochsletteri) is confined to the Murchison Mountains in Fiordland, New Zealand. This mainland population contains about half of the c. 300 remaining takahe and benefits from one of the costliest recovery programmes in the country. Management activities include deer culling, stoat trapping, nest manipulation (e.g. removal of infertile eggs) and captive rearing of chicks. To determine what effect this intensive management has had on the recovery of the Fiordland takahe population, we modelled 25 years of survival and breeding success data as as function of environmental factors (e.g. precipitation, temperature, beech seedfall, tussock flowering) and specific management activities (egg manipulation, captive rearing, stoat control). Annual adult survival, estimated at 78% (credibility interval (CI) = 7581%), is significantly increased to 85% (7692%CI) in presence of stoat trapping, but is still low relative to introduced takahe populations on offshore islands and other large New Zealand bird species in predator-free environments. This suggests that the harsh environment of Fiordland may be suboptimal habitat in terms of survival for takahe. On the other hand, reproductive output in Fiordland is similar to that for introduced island populations, and is improved even further by management. Number of chicks per pair fledged with nest manipulation and captive rearing is estimated at 0.66 compared with 0.43 in the absence of nest management. The difference is explained mainly by low fledging success in the wild, especially for double clutches, which justifies the practice of removing one of two viable eggs and transferring it to a captive-rearing facility. The results of this study indicate that current management activities such as stoat trapping and captive rearing have a strong positive effect on population growth of the Murchison Mountains takahe population.
24055319|In the first quantitative study of an endemic New Zealand aphid, the only known field populations of the rare Paradoxaphis plagianthi were monitored for two years from 1999 to 2001. The species appears to be anholocyclic, persisting viviparously throughout the year on its deciduous host tree, the lowland ribbonwood (Plagianthus regius). Local aphid abundance increased rapidly in spring as new leaves appeared, but collapsed abruptly in November, probably due to dispersal and a decline in resource quality. Numbers then remained low until leaf senescence in late autumn, when they increased again to a smaller peak. Aphids persisted on plump terminal buds for the short time in winter when host trees were completely leafless. Though several colonisation events were observed in late spring, these were generally unsuccessful in establishing new populations, and local colony extinction was common. The apparent rarity of P. plagianthi suggests it could be threatened by introduced predators and competitors, or climate change.
24056202|This study investigates the hypothesis that tomtits are significantly less susceptible to 1080 poison operations when cereal rather than carrot bait applications are used, both at relatively low sowing rates. We made counts of territorial male tomtits along transects during standard 1080 possum control operations in 2001 to 2003. The transects had 35 kg ha1 sowing rates of either carrot or cereal baits. The case-study evidence, all from operations that reduced possum populations to below five percent residual trap-catch, indicates that cereal bait operations with low sowing rates and large bait size have little, if any, immediate impact on tomtit populations. These results should be taken into account when planning aerial 1080 operations, especially given the contrasting evidence that carrot operations, even at low sowing rates, can have a negative impact on tomtits.
24060762|Gravel beaches are discrete, irregularly separated habitats along New Zealand's coasts. They are one of a diverse range of small, disparate, naturally rare ecosystems that tend to occur in extreme environments, and provide critical habitat for threatened, rare and endemic species. New Zealand's gravel beaches are threatened by urbanisation, weeds, adjacent agriculture, introduced animals and predicted sea-level rise. We studied 51 gravel beaches distributed along the New Zealand coastline to provide primary information on invertebrate composition, habitat patterns and threatened species, and how these relate to national (climate), landscape (surrounding habitat type and human influences), and site-level (geomorphology, vegetation) factors. Invertebrate abundance was mostly driven by beach-scale factors with little influence of the surrounding landscape. However, urbanisation and the presence of exotic plants were significant drivers of invertebrate community composition. A number of observations of interest (i.e. rare species, new localities, habitat specialists, threatened species and exotic species with incursion risk) were also recovered from gravel beaches. Our results demonstrate that vegetation surveys are not necessarily adequate indicators of other biotic components of gravel beach ecosystems and suggest that further ecological assessments of gravel beaches are warranted.
24060833|The den use of possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) may be density dependent, meaning that individuals change their denning behaviour in response to changes in population density. Increases in den use due to changes in density may result in increases in bovine tuberculosis (Mycobacterium bovis; bTB) transmission among possums, as infection has previously been correlated with den use. In this study, the den use of a possum population was monitored in 2011 before and after a density reduction event. Females increased their den use following density reduction, but males did not. However, den use was more dependent on the sex of the individual than density reduction, with males having greater den use than females. A second site of different habitat where density reduction was not carried out was also monitored for den use, in 2012. In contrast to the manipulated site, den use did not differ between monitoring events or possum sex at this site. Possums at this site also had greater den use than possums at the manipulated site. This research suggests that bTB transmission risk may not be uniform among habitats. In addition, to prevent potential increases in transmission risk from bTB-infected possums surviving control, pest control operations should aim to remove the majority of possums in a population.
24060627|Sodium fluoroacetate (1080) is a vertebrate pesticide, originally developed in the 1940s and principally used for the control of unwanted introduced animals in New Zealand and Australia. Fluoroacetate is also a toxic component of poisonous plants found in Australia, Africa, South America, and India. In relation to its use as a pesticide, recent research has focused on further elucidation of its potential sub-lethal effects, on animal welfare issues, on understanding and reducing its risk to non-target species, on its ecotoxicology, and fate in the environment following use in baits. 1080 acts by interfering with cellular energy production through inhibition of the tricarboxylic acid cycle and lethal doses can kill animal pests within 648 h of eating baits. Exposure to sub-lethal doses has been shown to have harmful effects on the heart and testes in animal studies, and strict safety precautions are enforced to protect contractors and workers in the pest control industry. Considerable care must be taken when using 1080 for the control of animal pests. Primary poisoning of non-target birds and secondary poisoning of dogs must be minimised to ensure that benefits in terms of conservation outcomes and pest and disease control significantly outweigh the risks associated with its use. Despite over 60 years of research and practical experience, the use of 1080 is still embroiled in controversy, while research efforts continue to improve its target specificity when it is used as a conservation tool or for Tb vector control.
24052728|The diet of the North Island kokako (Callaeas cinerea wilsoni) was studied in three central North Island habitats, Pureora, Mapara, and Rotoehu, for three years. Possum (Trichosurus vulpecula) diet was less intensively studied for part of the same time in Pureora and Mapara. A literature review was made of the diet of possum, red deer (Cervus elaphus), and feral goat (Capra hircus). There is considerable overlap between the diets of kokako and the three mammalian browsers; leaves and/or fruit of some species are eaten by all four, e.g. mahoe (Melicytus ramiflorus), fivefinger (Pseudopanax arboreus), lawyer (Rubus cissoides), pigeonwood (Hedycarya arborea), and raurekau (Coprosma australis). Possums, red deer, and goats have reduced the abundance of preferred kokako food plants in much of the remaining kokako habitat. The present distribution of kokako suggests that their decline has been caused not only by forest clearance and introduced predators, but also by impoverishment of habitat resulting from the introduction of browsing mammals.
24058106|Norway rats (Rattus norvegicus) were eradicated from Ulva Island, Rakiura National Park, in 1996. The aim of our work was to determine if seedlings and saplings increased in density and/or species richness following this eradication. In 2003, we took advantage of eight permanent plots (5  5 m) that had been established on Ulva Island in 1991, by counting seedlings and saplings of woody species, including tree ferns. Over this period, total numbers of woody seedlings (< 30 cm tall), and saplings (30 cm  2 m tall) did not increase significantly (P > 0.05). However, seedlings of two species, Dicksonia squarrosa and Pittosporum colensoi, and saplings of one species, Coprosma colensoi, did increase in numbers significantly. Little change in the species richness of seedlings or saplings was recorded. The removal of Norway rats may have been partly responsible for the recorded increases in density, though the eradication of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus borealis) from Ulva Island approximately two decades prior to this work is an important confounding factor.
24052707|Marked sites established around Port Ross in 1973 were re-examined in 1983 to measure changes in the vegetation and assess the impact of goats and pigs. Goats had not increased in numbers, nor extended beyond their earlier range, but they were seen higher on the Hooker Hills. Pigs were scarce, but their sign was seen throughout. Photopoints and numerical methods both showed that Chionochloa antarctica tussock was eliminated or greatly reduced where goats and pigs occurred together, and where only pigs were present it was reduced slightly. Despite browsing by goats, woody vegetation has continued to replace the Chionochloa tussock grassland and occupy sites where tussock has been removed. Poa litorosa tussock has further invaded a strip of dead Hebe elliptica-Metrosideros umbellata forest killed by goats and by exposure to the wind. As the low-altitude Chionochloa tussock disappears, goats may move to unmodified tussock grassland at higher altitudes and so gain access to other parts of the island. Pigs, by rooting and browsing, will continue to reduce lowland Chionochloa in their range. Extermination of pigs and goats from the main Auckland Island should therefore be planned.
24060834|The brushtail possum (Trichosurus vulpecula) is a widespread introduced pest in New Zealand. Some hair and faecal remains suspected to be from a possum were found on a vehicle transport barge in port at Great Barrier Island in the Hauraki Gulf (North Island, New Zealand), an island that has historically remained possum free. So that appropriate action could be taken, we used forensic genetics to confirm the species, number, and sex of the individuals that may have disembarked at the island. We concluded that forensic samples were attributable to a single male possum that did not disembark on the island, hence no eradication response was put in place. This case study illustrates how forensic DNA analysis of wildlife remains can assist in the response to a potentially disastrous invasive event by providing information in a timely and cost-effective manner.
24058139|Our evaluation of pre-settlement Holocene (10 0001000 BP) fire, using radiocarbon-dated charcoals and pollen and charcoal spectra in pollen diagrams, concludes that fires were infrequent and patchy in the eastern South Island of New Zealand. Charcoal radiocarbon dates point to three broad phases of fire frequency: infrequent patchy fires from 10 000 to 2600 BP; a slightly increased frequency between 2600 and 1000 BP; and an unprecedented increase of fires after 1000 BP, which peaked between 800 and 500 BP. We suggest that natural fire was driven more by vegetation flammability (with ignitibility and combustibility components) than climate within this rain-shadow region, that plant chemistry principally determined fire frequency, and that topography determined the extent of fire. The review suggests that there were rare spatial and temporal instances of a feedback relationship between fire and early-successional grasses in eastern South Island. This occurred only within narrow-range, cool environments, whose equilibrium communities were of flammable, phenolic-rich woody species and grasses, and was predominantly in the late pre-settlement period. Elsewhere, grasses and herbs were understorey components to otherwise low-flammability, hardwood forest and scrub.
24053270|Samples of one and two seasons old foliage, leaf litter, shoots, bark, and wood of Hoheria glabrata, Olearia ilicifolia, Senecio bennettii, and Dracophyllum traversii were analysed for nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, and calcium. Total mineral element concentration was 9.14% in leaves of the deciduous H. glabrata and ranged from 3.94% to 1.93% in one season old evergreen foliage of S. bennettii and D. traversii, respectively. On average, 60-70% of foliar N, P, and K were withdrawn before leaf fall, but Ca content increased by some 100% and 200%, respectively, in leaf litter of O. ilicifolia and S. bennettii. Results are discussed in relation to the species' ecological status and browse resistance.
24053587|Successful possum control operations were conducted in 1990, using aerially-sown sodium monofluoroacetate (1080) possum baits, at Waipoua (85% kill) and on Rangitoto Island (93% kill). In Waipoua Forest Sanctuary, streams and rivers were monitored for 4 months after 100 tonnes of 1080 possum baits were sown over 17 000 ha of forest. At Rangitoto Island, adjacent to Auckland, surface and ground water samples were analysed for 6 months after 20 tonnes of 1080 possum baits were sown over the 2300 ha island. No 1080 was detected in the streams and rivers of the Waipoua forest or in the surface or ground water of Rangitoto Island.
24054429|Recent concern that honey bees may threaten natural areas by increasing weed abundances through increased pollination was investigated by reviewing the literature to determine which weed taxa surveyed from New Zealand Protected Natural Areas (PNAs) are visited by honey bees. The contribution made by honey bees to weed reproduction was assessed by checking reproductive strategies and pollination mechanisms of a subset of problem weeds. A substantial proportion of surveyed weeds in PNAs are probably visited by honey bees (43%) including half of the problem weeds. However, reproduction of the majority of problem weeds is characterised by plastic reproductive mechanisms and/or simple pollination mechanisms where honey bee influence is low or unimportant. Although honey bees may be important pollinators of some weeds, they probably do not contribute substantially to weed problems.
24054455|The prevalence of infestation of the skulls of stoats with the parasitic nematode Skrjabingylus nasicola was previously described in a national survey by King and Moody (1982). Since then, more samples from Craigieburn Forest Park and from the Eglinton Valley, Fiordland, have been collected, and a method of determining the actual ages of adult stoats has been developed. The extended samples are here examined for a relationship between infestation and age, which could not previously be tested. Prevalence generally increases with age, significantly so at Craigieburn. Stoats which had lived through one or more beech (Nothofagus solandri) mast years at Craigieburn were significantly more likely to be infested, when the effects of age were allowed for. The hypothesis is advanced that the paratenic host for S. nasicola in New Zealand is the feral house mouse, Mus musculus, which is more numerous after a heavy beech seed fall.
24052683|Information on toxic loading and piece-weight distribution are used to calculate an index of the number of baits which an animal must encounter and eat before the probability of death exceeds 99%. It is termed the 99% bait quality index (99BQI). The index shows that, on average, rabbits of median susceptibility to 1080 must find 4.2-5.4 unscreened carrot baits; possums of median susceptibility must find 6.5-8.4. Indices for 1080-tolerant rabbits and possums ranged from 6.2-15.6 baits. Indices for machine-screened baits range from 1.9-3.2 for rabbits of median susceptibility, and 3.2-4.4 for tolerant individuals. Corresponding figures for possums are 2.4-3.8 and 3.2-5.7. Indices for hand-screened bait of appropriate toxic loading are 1-2 baits. It is argued that when poorly prepared baits, containing many sub-lethal fragments, are used, large amounts of bait must be distributed to enable an intended victim to find many pieces before poison-induced anorexia suppresses further feeding. If bait is scarce, the chances of survival are high, and this is suggested as a possible cause of failure of some control operations. Ways by which the use of large quantities of poorly prepared bait increase the risk of incidental poisoning of birds are also discussed.
24053180|The heathland vegetation of northern New Zealand is usually regarded as a "derived" vegetation type resulting from forest destruction during the Maori and European periods of settlement. Plant species cover-abundance data from sample quadrats in the Far North are analysed using Detrended Correspondence Analysis (DCA) and Two-way Indicator Species Analysis (TWINSPAN) and are then correlated with soil nutrient data. Variations in species composition of heaths appear to be related primarily to soil type. Age since last fire is also important but was not examined in detail in this study. Heaths on volcanic soils were commonly dominated by Kunzea ericoides and will follow a succession to forest in the absence of recurrent fire. Heaths on podzolised earths and sands were characterised by low nutrient status and dominance of Leptospermum scoparium and a number of cyperaceous species. Slow growth rates, probably due to nutrient limitation and seasonal waterlogging of soils, in combination with occasional fires are likely to maintain a heathland vegetation type.
24052733|Growth of Avena sativa L. and Agrostis tenuis Sibth was measured on peat and mineral soils from sites on Campbell Island in the New Zealand subantarctic. For the peat soils, growth was strongly positively correlated with both pH and Mg levels and less strongly with Ca and Na. With the inclusion of the mineral soil data, only the fit between growth and Ca levels was significant.
24056338|Recently developed national spatial databases enable improved estimates of how much of the full range of New Zealand's terrestrial biodiversity pattern remains, its rates of change, and how much is legally protected. Analysis using a classification of land environments derived from soil and climate data layers (LENZ) as a surrogate for biodiversity pattern, and spatial databases of land cover and legal protection, shows extreme (>70%) loss of indigenous cover in 57% of land environments, and poor protection (<20% land area protected) in more than two thirds. Loss of indigenous cover has continued, with 49% of environments having lost indigenous cover from 1996/97 to 2001/02, and the highest rates occuring where indigenous cover was already most depleted. The Resource Management Act (1991) (an Act of Parliament bringing together laws governing land, air and water resources and concentrating on the environmental effects of human activities) and associated provisions have not halted these losses on private land. Monitoring progress towards halting biodiversity decline in New Zealand will depend on maintenance and updating of these national databases, and development of measures of processes that sustain indigenous species assemblages and ecosystem functions.
24054472|The distribution and abundance of lizards relative to habitat structure were studied at Pukerua Bay, Wellington between December 1982 and March 1988 in order to identify options for management of the habitat of the five species of lizards present. One species, Whitaker's skink (Cyclodina whitakeri), is a threatened species with only one known mainland population. Pitfall traps were set for 23 667 trap-days and yielded 2897 lizard captures. Highest capture rate was for common skinks (Oligosoma nigriplantare polychroma) and lowest rate was for C. whitakeri. Of the five lizard species at Pukerua Bay, C. whitakeri had the narrowest habitat range and was most sensitive to temperature extremes. These features, combined with predation, and habitat disturbance and degradation, have resulted in critically low numbers of C. whitakeri. Assessment of management options to lessen the threats to C. whitakeri concluded that risks from disturbance, predation and fire could best be minimised through a managed revegetation programme.
24058096|Indigenous peoples' knowledge on changes in wildlife populations and explanations for these changes can inform current conservation and wildlife management systems. In this study, Thoe Tuawhenua interviewees provided mtauranga (traditional knowledge) about a repertoire of visual (e.g. decreasing flock size), audible (e.g. less noise from kerer in the forest canopy), and harvest-related (e.g. steep decline in harvests since the 1950) indicators used to assess kerer (New Zealand pigeon; Hemiphaga novaeseelandiae novaeseelandiae) abundance and condition in Te Urewera, New Zealand over the last 100 years. Metaphorical explanations for the decline in kerer included the loss of mana (authority and prestige) by the iwi (tribe) over the kerer and forest, and the retraction of the kerer's mauri (life force) by Tne Mahuta (God of the Forest). Interviewees reported that predation and interspecific competition with introduced species, variability in food supply, and loss of habitat were the principal biophysical mechanisms to have caused declines in kerer abundance. Long-term qualitative monitoring by Thoe Tuawhenua has the potential to guide the restoration of kerer and wider environmental management in Te Urewera. Allowing iwi the self-determination to make management decisions according to their mtauranga (or science, if desired) is likely to lead to greater application of results and altered practices where required for sustainability.
24052684|The influence of physical factors and forest type on the distribution of benthic invertebrates in 43 New Zealand streams was investigated using a systematic survey technique. A small nucleus of common taxa was numerically dominant at most sites regardless of forest type. The mayfly, Deleatidium was found at 42 of the sites and was the most abundant taxon at 27. Other widely distributed genera were Nesameletus, Coloburiscus (Ephemeroptera), Stenoperla, Zelandoperla, Zelandobius (Plecoptera), Olinga and Hydrobiosis (Trichoptera). Numbers of invertebrate taxa and relative abundance of shredders (large particle detritivores) were not correlated with stream gradient but were correlated significantly with stream stability. Implications of these findings for stream management are discussed, and it is suggested that combined physical-faunal surveys of the kind used in this study have the potential to identify streams which may require particular protection.
24055344|The New Zealand flatworm, Arthurdendyus triangulatus (formerly Artioposthia triangulata) has become established in the British Isles and the Faroe Islands and its human-mediated spread within Northern Ireland and Scotland is well documented. The geographical distributions within New Zealand of it and two related species, A. australis and A. testacea have always been assumed to reflect the natural distribution patterns. However, an analysis of the vegetation groups where the flatworms are presently found suggests that within New Zealand the distributions of endemic terrestrial planarians have been extended significantly by human intervention. Delineation of present distribution patterns of these species within New Zealand may lead to a better understanding of their potential distribution in other countries if they ever became established in them. Such extensions of ranges of New Zealand endemics within the country have implications for biodiversity analyses.
24058179|Socially monogamous male birds are predicted to maximise their reproductive success by pursuing extra-pair copulations (EPCs) while engaging in anti-cuckoldry behaviour such as mate guarding. In the stitchbird, Notiomystis cincta, high levels of forced EPCs and a high proportion of nestlings resulting from extra-pair fertilisations lead to the prediction that males of this species should exhibit intense paternity guarding behaviours. While studying an isolated stitchbird population on Tiritiri Matangi Island  New Zealand (3636S, 17453E), I collected daily behavioural data throughout the breeding season from 15 males in 2000/01 and 27 males in 2001/02. In this study, male stitchbirds demonstrated clear paternity guarding by exhibiting: (1) an increased likelihood of being close to their mate during her fertile period, (2) an increased initiation of mate contact during her fertile period, (3) switching from site-specific territorial defence during the pre-fertile period to defending an area centring on the their female partner's location during her fertile period, and (4) an increased following of the female to communal feeding sites outside the territory during her fertile period. For polygynous males, mate guarding and territorial defence were conditional on which of their females was fertile. Additional evidence supporting the hypothesis that mate guarding in this species is a form of paternity assurance, rather than protection from harassment, is that males protected their partner from harassment by other stitchbird males but did not intervene when females were harassed by male bellbirds, Anthornis melanura. While mate-guarding intensity in many species is conditional on the stage of female fertility, male stitchbirds also modified their behaviour depending on the location of the female and the rate of intrusions by extra-pair males. Resident males adopted a best-of-a-bad-job tactic when they were unable to locate their female by defending an area around her last known location. Furthermore, when the rate of intrusions by extra-pair males increased they traded-off the area they could defend within their territory against their ability to guard the female. Territory takeovers were uncommon, but when they did occur older males displaced younger males and healthy birds displaced sick ones. Contrary to the prevailing view that mate guarding is a male response to female infidelity, male stitchbirds appear to use mate guarding primarily to prevent paternity losses from forced EPCs. Future assessments of mate guarding function should consider the possibility that mate guarding involves a combination of conflict and co-operation between the sexes.
24060822|Endemic biota of native grasslands commonly co-exist with introduced grazing mammals, and often this is seen as a conservation threat. The endangered pygmy bluetongue lizard (Tiliqua adelaidensis) is restricted to remnants of native grassland in the mid-north of South Australia, with a long history of sheep grazing. Pygmy bluetongue lizards use ambush predation from their burrow entrances, and prey capture may be more efficient in a habitat with low vegetation density. We experimentally investigated changes in predatory behaviour in this lizard, with different grass density. We maintained and filmed captive lizards, in sequence, in grassed and bare habitat, and in habitat with low and high grass density, and provided them with crickets (Teleogryllus commodus) as prey. In habitats with lower grass density lizards emerged from their burrows more, made more prey capture attempts, and these attempts were more often made with the body further emerged from the burrow. We suggest that some grazing by domestic stock might benefit predatory efficiency for this lizard, perhaps by allowing a clearer view of approaching prey when grass density is lower. Our results conform with a previous study of the behaviour of pygmy bluetongue lizards in their natural burrows in the field under different simulated grazing regimes. From a broader perspective, together the results suggest a balance between detrimental impacts and benefits from grazing pressures on grassland lizard species in other geographical regions, and the potential to maintain conservation good will among farming communities.
24058131|Investigations of nest predation are often limited by the researchers' inability to identify nest predators accurately. I tested a chemical bait marker, Rhodamine B (RB), as an indicator of egg predation at artificial ground nests. In a pen trial, the presence of characteristic fluorescent bands in one or more facial vibrissae from all treatment animals confirmed the suitability of RB as a bait marker in the introduced European hedgehog (Erinaceus europaeus). In a field trial in which artificial ground nests were baited with RB-dosed eggs, five of 21 trapped hedgehogs showed evidence of RB ingestion. One animal showed markings indicating two temporally separate predation events. This ability to identify nest predators to species, demographic class, or individual level could lead to more focused control programmes. Other potential uses of this technique include investigation of individual foraging behaviour, calibration of predation rates in artificial nest studies, estimation of the efficacy of poisoned eggs as a control method, and testing for bait or poison uptake by non-target species.
24052638|Eight species and 175 individual fish were sampled from a small estuary in Tennyson Inlet, Marlborough Sounds from 1971 to 1978 by a 27.4 m set net of 12.4 cm stretched mesh size. During the sample period there was a consistent significant decline in both total number and total weight of fish per tide. Similar significant declines in both numbers and mean weight per fish occurred from the 1971-74 to 1975-78 periods for all species that had sufficient numbers to be tested for significance (dogfish, mullet, snapper, kahawai and warehou), but inadequate data for mullet and warehou prevented a test of weight decline for the 1975-78 period. Since these species range over a wide area of coastal habitats, it is conjectured that their declines reflect regional as well as local factors.
24056337|Anticoagulant poisons, especially the second-generation anticoagulant brodifacoum, are used worldwide to eradicate pest mammals from high priority nature sites. However, the potency and persistence of brodifacoum may present threats to non-target species. In New Zealand, most ecosystems lack native terrestrial mammals; instead, birds, reptiles and invertebrates fulfil key ecosystem roles. Introduced mammals represent the biggest threat to persistence of native species. Therefore, in addition to use in eradications, brodifacoum is often continuously supplied in ecosystems for pest mammal control and detection of mammalian reinvasions, creating a potential long-term risk of poisoning to non-target species. We reviewed literature concerning brodifacoum effects on non-target native fauna in New Zealand as a framework for discussing current research requirements. Birds and their invertebrate prey have, to date, been the focal taxa of such empirical studies (26 species and 11 orders studied, respectively). Brodifacoum is linked to both mortality and sub-lethal contamination in native birds, and the toxicant is consumed by a range of native invertebrates. Reptiles, amphibians, bats and aquatic invertebrates are considered at low risk of anticoagulant poisoning and are not routinely included in risk assessments. However, recent field evidence demonstrates that native geckos consume brodifacoum bait. Reptiles are often abundant on mammal-free offshore islands where brodifacoum is used persistently as a simultaneous rodent detection and killing strategy. Ectothermic vertebrates, though at low risk of toxicosis themselves, may act as vectors of brodifacoum and create a risk of secondary poisoning to native birds. The effectiveness of using poison bait to protect mammal-free ecosystems is uncertain, due to the abundance of alternative food supplies available to an invading rodent. However, where sustained brodifacoum use is deemed appropriate, the role of reptiles as consumers and vectors of anticoagulant poison should be a research priority.
24053184|The vegetation of an area of the Upper Clutha basin, New Zealand, with a 'semi-arid' climate, was sampled with 95 quadrats in a nested randomised design. All types of vegetation were sampled, from near-natural to managed pastures. Twenty four environmental factors were measured in each quadrat. Five 'formations' are described, and 14 'communities' recognised within them, although there are few constant or faithful species. Such weak structure, and relatively weak correlation with the environment, are partly attributed to non-equilibrium. All formations, and many of the communities, are scattered over the area. The most important environmental factors in determining the vegetation are latitude, elevation, soil fertility (especially sulphate) and water. All sites contain exotic species; some contain only exotics. Correlation between the sizes of the native and exotic guilds gave no evidence that natives and exotics were competing for niches. The lowest proportion of exotics is at higher elevations and on steeper slopes. Analyses showed a strong gradient from near-natural vegetation to managed pastures, but with no discontinuity. Agricultural communities, especially lucerne fields, include species typical of unmanaged sites in similar conditions.
24060760|In a polygynous mating system, males frequently compete by locating and defending sites with resources essential to female survival and reproduction. We investigated seasonal changes in site occupancy in a sexually dimorphic, harem-forming insect, the Auckland tree weta (Hemideina thoracica). First we established artificial cavities as diurnal refuge cavities and potential harem guarding sites. We then examined cavity occupancy changes, and, based on our knowledge of prior occupants, determined sex-specific patterns of arrival, departure, and aggregation at a population level throughout the year. Both season and the sex of prior occupants influenced weta occupancy patterns. Most observations were of single females. However, both males and females moved into cavities previously occupied by a weta of the opposite sex more often than expected by chance alone. Females avoided cavities where other females were present, except during summer when most harems formed. In early summer, male and female tree weta previously living apart began co-habiting. Generally there was little relationship between the number and sex of the weta inside cavities and female departure rates from cavities. Males who were sharing with other males departed cavities more frequently than single males, as might be expected in a polygynous species with malemale combat. Males were less likely to depart if they were sharing a cavity with a harem of more than two females during the summerautumn period. Analysis of departure rates from artificial cavities indicates males are more mobile than females only in winter and spring. Based on our arrival and departure data, and high occupancy of artificial cavities, we suggest that female weta at this site are mobile and may search for mates during the summer. The data are consistent with a polygynandrous mating system as inferred for other tree weta species (Hemideina spp.).
24056191|The Canterbury Plains in the eastern South Island is one of the most modified regions of New Zealand with less than 2% of indigenous vegetation cover remaining. The critically endangered ground beetle Holcaspis brevicula Butcher, a local endemic known only from a small area in that region, is thought to be threatened by the loss and fragmentation of the formerly widespread forest and shrubland habitat. Previously, only the two type specimens, both male, were known to science. From 20002005, we conducted a survey for H. brevicula, using pitfall traps and active searching, in four of the largest remnants of the once extensive low forest and shrubland of knuka, Kunzea ericoides, each covering less than 20 ha. In addition we conducted extensive trapping in an adjacent 7000 ha plantation forest of exotic Pinus radiata, in grassland and pasture areas, exotic shrubland, and in the nearest mountain beech (Nothofagus solandri var. cliffortioides) forest in the foothills of the Southern Alps. A total of 8658 carabids representing 47 species were collected over 57 494 trap-days, including five specimens of H. brevicula, all found in the pine plantation. A search of all major New Zealand collections for this species revealed three additional specimens, bringing the overall total of known specimens to ten, all of which were collected in this plantation forest. We propose that the exotic plantation forest inadvertently provides an important substitute habitat for this forest carabid, whereas the few small and fragmented native knuka remnants appear to be insufficient to maintain populations of this species.
24056201|The striped gecko (Hoplodactylus stephensi) is one of the rarest and most elusive of New Zealand's lizards. It is currently known from just three locations; Stephens Island (Takapourewa) in Cook Strait, Maud Island in Pelorus Sound, and the Coromandel Peninsula. The striped gecko is a relatively poorly studied species with little data available on many aspects of its biology. We report on the first estimate of longevity in H. stephensi (a minimum of 16 years) and provide baseline data on population structure, habitat use, morphometrics and pregnancy rate. Our data show the value of permanently marked populations of reptiles available for long-term study by different researchers.
24053733|Anticoagulant poisons were laid within native forest at Wenderholm Regional Park (near Auckland) to reduce rat numbers during the summer months. Snap trapping indices and an artificial nest experiment confirmed the high potential for rat interference in unpoisoned forest patches outside Wenderholm, compared with the near-zero potential at Wenderholm. Over two breeding seasons, 70 New Zealand pigeon (Hemiphaga novaeseelandiae) nests were located and monitored. Nest predation was significantly lower at Wenderholm than in non-treatment areas, but hatching and fledging success were not significantly different, due to a high level of nest desertion at Wenderholm. Possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) were found to be nest predators, and their low numbers at Wenderholm confounded the results of the rat poisoning experiment.
24060889|Robust monitoring systems are required to improve the ecological outcomes of management actions aimed at preventing biodiversity loss. We present a pilot study that measured assemblages of widespread and common bird species at the national scale in New Zealand. Bird surveys were undertaken at 18 sampling locations (six per land cover class: forest, shrubland and non-woody) randomly selected from a national grid. The full sampling protocol (five count stations surveyed on each of two consecutive days) was implemented at 80% of sampling locations. Each survey consisted of a ten-minute bird count, with distance sampling carried out in the initial 5-min period and any new species recorded in the second 5-min period. Most observations were based on aural cues (particularly in forest and shrubland). On average, one additional species was recorded per sampling location in ten- versus five-minute counts. Analyses highlighted spatial heterogeneity as a major factor influencing detection probabilities both for species present and for individuals of those species at sampling locations. This issue is often overlooked when estimating bird population trends through time. Most endemic species were detected in forest, while native and introduced species were most frequently detected in shrub. Potential uses of the information collected, along with recommendations for improving the sampling protocols, are highlighted.
24060759|Nectar is an important factor influencing the level and persistence of butterfly populations, but particular sources of nectar may not be optimal for all species. In a farmland context, it is not always clear whether nectar sources used by butterflies are good quality species. They may be used opportunistically in the absence of true preferences, therefore possibly limiting maximal reproduction. This study investigated the use of nectar by adults of the endemic New Zealand butterfly, the common copper Lycaena salustius, in two ways: (1) a choice experiment in the field using a replicated design of different plant species, and (2) a greenhouse no-choice bioassay examining fitness enhancement by different flower species. In the field experiment, only Lycaena salustius males were observed in large numbers, and they spent a significantly longer time on flowers of Veronica 'Youngii' and Fagopyrum esculentum than on species already available in vineyards. In the laboratory, Veronica salicifolia and Fagopyrum esculentum flowers significantly enhanced the fitness of females over Achillea millefolium and the water control. These findings together imply that superior and preferred floral resources are not yet available to adult Lycaena salustius in vineyard landscapes. The no-choice greenhouse experiment suggests that the plant group with which the butterfly may have co-evolved is more beneficial than other exotic species, and that such plants could enhance populations in vineyards. The conservation of other butterfly populations in farmland and other ecosystems may benefit from similar investigations.
24060870|New Zealand's offshore islands are refuges for many threatened species, a high proportion of vertebrate diversity, and the world's most diverse fauna of seabirds. We present key issues and questions that can be used to guide research on the conservation of biodiversity on these islands. Four global reviews formed a basis from which we identified research questions of potential relevance to the management of these islands. The research questions were assigned in the context of nine objectives proposed as a means of achieving ecological integrity. For each of the nine objectives, we then asked what has been achieved in terms of island research and management, and what needs to be achieved in order to meet long-term goals. We used local examples to identify issues and questions specific to the islands of New Zealand. Our analyses revealed two research areas in which current understanding is poor. One is the need to understand ecosystem processes and their resilience to long-term environmental change. The second is the need to define and better understand the consequences of direct involvement by the public in the management of islands, including partnerships between government agencies, tangata whenua (original people of the land  Mori) and non-government organisations such as community groups.
24053734|Many cabbage trees (Cordyline australis) are dying throughout much of the North Island and the northern South Island of New Zealand. The symptomatology of those dying in urban environments is described, and is concluded to be consistent with the hypothesis that death is caused by a biotic agent entering through a leafy tuft of the branch system. This disease, which has been named Sudden Decline, usually leads to almost total defoliation of affected trees within 2-12 months. Disease incidence has increased linearly at about 11% per annum since 1987/88. Cultivated trees of C. kaspar, C. obtecta, and various Cordyline hybrids have also been observed dying with Sudden Decline symptoms. Investigations aimed at identifying the causal agent are described, and the hypothesis is advanced that a phytoplasma (mycoplasma-like organism or MLO) is the cause. Sudden Decline is contrasted with the widespread ill-health apparent in many pastoral populations of cabbage tree throughout the country. This Rural Decline is characterised by a general loss of branch and leaf vigour and occasional tree death. It is suggested that Rural Decline is a complex disease (decline disease) caused by various biotic and abiotic agents interacting with an ageing population growing in situations where regeneration is prevented. In many pastoral situations Sudden Decline is superimposed on Rural Decline. The ecological implications of Sudden Decline are discussed.
24060886|The five-minute bird count (5MBC) method was developed in New Zealand in the early 1970s by the DSIR for monitoring forest birds. The method has been undertaken consistently for nearly 40 years leading to a large resource of counts (over 200 000). These counts are valuable as they often provide our only historical baseline measure of multi-species bird populations in New Zealand forests. Over 120 000 counts are held in the 5MBC database. The method was used between 1973 and 1992 by the DSIR, NZ Wildlife Service and NZ Forest Service to investigate important ecological questions such as which forests are important for which bird species, and whether pest control operations affect bird populations. The method played a role in persuading the government to cease all logging of native forests on public land in New Zealand in 2002. Reviewing 5MBC studies suggests a number of features of the method that should be considered when designing a study including that (1) it is an index not a census method, (2) observer, species behaviour, weather and season can all affect the number of birds detected, (3) counts are habitat- species- and probably year- specific preventing inter-species comparisons, and comparisons of species numbers at different sites if the counts were undertaken in different years. The method is suitable for investigating long term trends but there is likely to be considerable annual variability and a pilot study should be undertaken to investigate the number of counts needed to detect the difference of interest (i.e. power). The Department of Conservation website includes pages that provide resources for counters including standard data recording sheets. At present counters cannot enter their data into the 5MBC database and there is a risk that data from counts will continue to be lost.
24060871|The legume gorse (Ulex europaeus) is one of the most widespread nitrogen (N) fixing species and is also one of the most invasive weeds of New Zealand. Despite its widespread occurrence, little research has been undertaken on N cycling in gorse ecosystems. This lack of knowledge is important since gorse covers up to 900 000 ha in New Zealand and there is a potential for a large environmental impact from the cycling of large amounts of N fixed by gorse entering waterways and water bodies. We undertook this overview to summarise the current understanding of N cycling in gorse-dominated ecosystems and identify knowledge gaps and provide recommendations for future research in New Zealand. Specifically, we describe some key biological processes associated with N cycling under gorse-dominated ecosystems. Gorse is capable of fixing up to 200 kg ha1 N annually during the period of rapid dry-matter accumulation. External factors such as temperature, fertiliser application, moisture, pH and atmospheric CO2 can affect biological N fixation in legumes, but such information is scarce for gorse. Gorse produces large quantities of litter, and N concentrations are generally higher in gorse litter than in the litters collected under other shrubs and trees. During and after litter decomposition, N is released into the surrounding soil, resulting in higher N concentration in the soils under gorse sites compared with under other species. This is due to the ability of gorse to fix N and produce large quantities of litter. The contribution of gorse-infested land to surface water eutrophication is also discussed because gorse has invaded large areas within the catchment of some significant lakes in New Zealand. From this review a good understanding of N cycling under gorse ecosystems has emerged. To better understand the wider environmental impact of gorse-dominated ecosystems in New Zealand, further research is needed including monitoring and modelling the impact of climate change on N fixation, leaching and C sequestration in gorse-dominated ecosystems.
24053567|A 20-year capture-recapture study of alpine grasshoppers spanned three distinct sequences of abundance, featuring in turn dis-equilibrium, equilibrium and secondary cyclic equilibrium. This succession of population patterns in the most abundant species, Paprides nitidus, retained high stability between generations. It arose via superimposed life-cycle pathways and adaptive responses between grasshopper phenologies and their environmental constraints. The responses were identified by correlation coefficient analysis across extensive matrices (11 500+ correlations) of environmental records  time-lagged grasshopper estimators. An estimator of resident population members performed better than total population estimators. The observed retention of population stability despite shifts in the patterns of abundance implies some predictability, and potential effects of climate change (increased temperature, rainfall and raindays) are examined in a context of global warming. It is concluded that flora and fauna could eventually become depleted in alpine regions due to the displacement of grasshopper populations to vegetation-scree margins where physical weathering and vegetation instability are often pronounced. The highly flexible P. nitidus life cycle emphasises a high level of variation in egg phenology, whereby alternative overwintering pathways (quiescence, dispause, extended diapause) lead to variable life-cycle durations. The schematic cycle accommodates two quite different species, Sigaus australis and Brachaspis nivalis, and is probably applicable to New Zealand's alpine Orthoptera in general. Population mortality sequences are identified throughout the cycle, and the 20-year census history suggests that a classic predator-prey response may arise between a native skink species (Reptilia) and grasshoppers.
24054476|Over five years from November 1982 to November 1987, we examined 495 mice collected from unlogged and logged native forest and from exotic forest at Pureora Forest Park, in the central North Island of New Zealand. Sex ratio, litter size, and breeding effort (pregnancy rate in females, proportion of males with visible tubules) were similar in all samples. By contrast, both density (captures per 100 trap-nights = C/100TN) and recruitment (proportion of young mice of age classes 1-3) were higher in densely vegetated habitats (along the road edge or in a young exotic plantation) than in the forest interior, whether logged or not. The age structures of the road edge and interior forest samples were significantly different (road edge, 33-35% young; interior, 10-11% young, means adjusted for sex, season and year by GLM). Mice of a given age caught in summer were larger, especially the females, implying that young mice grew faster in summer than at other seasons, and that older mice, especially females, also put on extra weight in summer. Most pregnant mice were found in spring and summer, but there was no winter quiescence in mature mice of either sex, and three of 29 pregnant females were collected in August. In five of 29 litters of embryos, at least one embryo was resorbing, totalling 12 of 161 embryos (7.4%). Litter size (viable embryos only) ranged from 5 to 8 (average 6) in 23 spring and summer pregnancies, but only 1-5 in four autumn and winter pregnancies. At high densities during 1984 in the young plantation (41.1 C/100TN in May) mice were significantly smaller in autumn, though somewhat larger in spring, and fewer young were recruited in 1984 and 1985. In these years we found significantly fewer males fertile, litters smaller and pregnancy rates lower, both in the plantation and in other habitats. The population peak was much higher than most apparently similar post-seedfall peaks in beech forest documented by the same methods, but it was different because (1) it developed very suddenly in autumn rather than building up slowly over winter and spring and peaking in summer; (2) it was not preceded by winter breeding; and (3) it was made up mostly of mice born in the previous summer, whereas peak populations in beech forests are usually made up of mice born during the previous winter and spring.
24058176|Most research into the diet of stoats in New Zealand has been in low altitude valleys such as the Eglinton and Hollyford Valleys. Yet much of New Zealand's national parks (e.g. Fiordland National Park) consist of many small montane valleys and alpine areas. This research identified the key prey species of stoats inhabiting such small mantane valleys and alpine grasslands. Stoats were collected from Department of Conservation kill-trap lines in the Murchison Mountains in Fiordland National Park over two summers (1999/2000 and 2000/2001) that followed heavy and moderate beech and snow tussock seed-fall events respectively. During the first summer mice were the most common prey item in stoat stomachs (68%), however in the second summer ground weta occurred most commonly (59%). These results support previous stoat research and suggest that ground weta may be an important prey species for stoats in the Murchison Mountains.
24053244|In the past 1000 years New Zealand has experienced a major 'extinction event', losing 40-50% of the avifauna, at least 50% of the frog fauna, and unknown proportions of the lizard and invertebrate faunas. During this period, bird species became extinct at different times and rates depending on the particular aspects of their ecology and life history which made them vulnerable to habitat loss, hunting, predation, and competition for food resources. Three groups of species with different levels of vulnerability are recognised within this event: Group I, 1000-1200 AD - species susceptible to initial impact of hunting by Polynesians and dogs, and predation and competition for food after an explosive irruption of kiore (Rattus exulans); Group II, 1200-1780 AD - species more resilient but gradually reduced by Polynesian hunting and continuous clearance and fragmentation of habitat; Group III, 1780-present - species susceptible to hunting with European weapons and predation by Rattus norvegicus, R. rattus, mustelids, cats, and to competition by mammalian herbivores, and destruction of wet forest and wetland habitat. Climatic change is seen as a negligible influence relative to these major intrusions. Discussions of the pre-human avifauna have so far concentrated almost exclusively on moas (Aves: Dinornithidae, Anomalopterygidae), partly because information on the other extinct species is sparse. The ecology of 12 species in the pre-human avifauna is inferred from their anatomy, relationships to extant species, sub-fossil evidence of diets, and analogy with related forms elsewhere.
24054750|In this paper we document the role of Phormium tenax as a nurse plant in unimproved pasture. We show that for our study area the regeneration of woody species was limited solely to P. tenax clumps with 22 native and one introduced regenerating woody species present. The number of woody species and of individual woody plants regenerating within P. tenax is not correlated with distance from the edge of the remnant forest but is significantly correlated with P. tenax clump area. P. tenax is acting as a nurse plant facilitating the succession from pasture to forest and we suggest that this species has considerable potential for use in restoration plantings.
24054780|Poisonous baits used for pest control in New Zealand commonly contain green dye and cinnamon oil to make them less attractive to birds. Research aimed at reducing the impact of poison based pest control on birds has shown that some birds are initially deterred from feeding on blue or, to a lesser extent, green coloured food and are attracted to yellow or red food. We determined whether colours that deter or attract birds affected the acceptance of non-toxic and toxic cereal baits by captive brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecula). Individual possums were offered, daily, a choice between a standard green dyed non-toxic cereal bait and either a blue dyed (17 possums) or yellow dyed non-toxic bait (16 possums) for 10 days. Following this, for the first group of 17 possums, 1080 toxin was added to either the green bait (9 possums) or blue bait (8 possums) and possums were offered the green versus blue choice again. Two additional groups that had not previously been fed cereal baits were also given a choice between blue and green baits, one of which was toxic. All possums offered non-toxic bait ate less on the first day of presentation than on subsequent days. There was no difference in acceptance of either blue or yellow coloured non-toxic bait compared to the standard green non-toxic bait on any days. Bait colour appeared to be unimportant in cereal bait choice and did not deter possums from eating any of the baits. The addition of toxin to baits did not significantly alter bait choice in any groups, although some individuals which had no previous experience with baits ate more toxic than non-toxic bait. These data suggest that adding a stronger bird deterring colour (i.e., blue) to poisonous baits is unlikely to adversely affect the acceptance of baits by possums.
24056196|This study uses data from forty-nine 20 m  20 m permanent plots measured in 1976, 1982, 1989 and 1997-2002 in Wakatipu Forest, western Otago. We relate changes in red (Nothofagus fusca), silver (Nothofagus menziesii) and mountain beech (Nothofagus solandri var. cliffortioides) forest vegetation to the presence of fallow deer (Dama dama). Vegetation composition is likely to have been altered prior to plot establishment, and results show that there was little change in vegetation composition during the study. There are some signs of fallow deer reducing silver beech seedling abundance at some plots, but most beech stands appear to be in the late phase of development and undergoing self thinning, so are probably not immediately vulnerable to suppression of canopy regeneration. In the future, widespread disturbance is likely to release plants in the understorey from competition for light and nutrients, and at that stage fallow deer browsing of beech species may be able to alter successional pathways more than has occurred over the past two decades. Seedling and sapling density of the palatable Griselinia littoralis (broadleaf) was probably insufficient to ensure successful regeneration. Comparisons of seedling densities with other mixed beech forests throughout New Zealand suggest that fallow deer density will need to be nearly zero in Wakatipu Forest before regeneration of all palatable subcanopy hardwood species is assured.
24053268|Brushtail possums began colonising a rata/kamahi forest in the Taramakau catchment, Westland, about 1950 and by 1973 had caused widespread conspicuous canopy defoliation. They were poisoned in one block of this forest in 1970, at about the time they reached peak density, and again in 1974. In an adjacent block they were poisoned in 1974 only. A survey of forest canopy condition in 1985 showed that, in the block poisoned at peak density, 21% of the basal area of palatable trees had died compared with 47% in the block where poisoning was deferred for 4 years. This suggested that control at or before populations attain peak density is critically important for limiting canopy mortality. After the 1974 poisoning, possum numbers in both blocks recovered to within 20% of their pre-control level in 10 years, indicating that control should be carried out at about decade intervals. Defoliation indices and species condition patterns showed that canopy dieback was least evident on relatively unpalatable trees. Of the palatable trees, kamahi was in best overall condition with least canopy dieback, followed by cedar, southern rata, then Hall's totara.
24056442|The assessment of ecological significance is a key part of a territorial local authority's (TLA) responsibility to provide for the protection of areas of significant indigenous vegetation and significant habitats of indigenous fauna as required under Section 6(c) of the Resource Management Act (RMA) 1991. While a number of methods have been used to achieve this, these have been largely unpublished and there is considerable variability in the approach taken by different TLAs. We propose four criteria (rarity and distinctiveness, representativeness, ecological context, and sustainability) for assessing significance of indigenous biodiversity in terms of RMA Section 6(c). These criteria could form the basis for a consistent national approach to significance assessment. These criteria have been developed from early assessment schemes such as the Protected Natural Areas Programme. While there is no one "right" system for conservation assessment, we hope this paper will stimulate discussion amongst the ecological community on the best ways to undertake significance assessment.
24054688|The diet of red-crowned parakeets (Cyanoramphus novaezelandiae novaezelandiae) and yellow-crowned parakeets (C. auriceps auriceps) was compared on Little Barrier Island, New Zealand between 1986 and 1987. Significant dietary differences were observed in these sympatric, congeneric species. Yellow-crowned parakeets ate significantly more invertebrates than red-crowned parakeets, which fed on a greater variety of plant foods. Red-crowned parakeets were found in all vegetation types depending on the availability of food and were commonly seen foraging on the ground in open habitats. In contrast, yellow-crowned parakeets were more arboreal and showed distinct preferences for forested habitats. The existence of both parakeet species in sympatry is examined as is the ecological importance of invertebrate food sources. Observed differences in the behaviour and ecology of parakeet species on Little Barrier Island are used to provide insight into the present day distribution and status of parakeets on mainland New Zealand.
24060701|Invasive weeds have been shown to alter ecosystem processes such as decomposition and nutrient cycling. However, little is known about the effects of introduced biocontrol agents on these processes. This study examined the effects of alligator weed (Alternanthera philoxeroides) and its biocontrol agent, the alligator weed flea beetle (Agasicles hygrophila), on nutrient cycling in a northern New Zealand lake. Alligator weed litter decomposed significantly faster than either of two native sedge species (Schoenoplectus tabernaemontani, Isolepsis prolifer) in a litterbag experiment. In addition, the presence of the alligator weed flea beetle resulted in large amounts of decaying alligator weed litter entering the lake in early summer. Both the timing and magnitude of this litter input were uncharacteristic of seasonal biomass dynamics of the native sedges. Combined with alligator weed's rapid decomposition, this indicates altered patterns of nutrient cycling at the lake, with potential flow-on effects including facilitation of further weed invasion.
24054474|Populations of ship rats (Rattus rattus), Norway rats (R. norvegicus), feral house mice (Mus musculus), stoats (Mustela erminea), weasels (M. nivalis), and ferrets (M. furo) were sampled with killtraps every three months from November 1982 to November 1987 in logged and unlogged native forest and in exotic plantations of various ages at Pureora Forest Park, central North Island. Mice (n=522 collected) were fewest in unlogged native forest, more abundant in road edge cutover forest, and most abundant in a young (5-10 year old) plantation. Traps catching most mice were set in dense ground cover under a low, sparse canopy. Ship rats (n=1793) were absent from the young plantation, present but not abundant in older exotic forest, and abundant in all native forest regardless of logging history. Traps set on warmer, steeper sites caught most ship rats, and those set in early successional habitats caught fewest. There was a marked reciprocal relationship between the distributions of ship rats and of mice: the proportion of mice in the total catch of rodents decreased significantly at the least disturbed forest sites (P<0.001). Most (81%) Norway rats (n=43) were caught in a single trap in unlogged native forest on the bank of a stream. Stoats (n=57) were most abundant in the older exotic plantations; weasels (n=16) in the young plantation and along road edges in native forest; and ferrets (n=11) in unlogged native forest. Hedgehogs (n=290) were common in unlogged native forest far from any roads and also in older exotic forest. Our data suggest that selective logging and conversion to exotics have different effects on each of the six species we monitored. We hypothesise that (1) selective logging is likely to stimulate temporary increases in the numbers of mice and weasels, but not rats or stoats, and (2) after conversion to exotic forest, mice and occasionally weasels will be abundant at first but will gradually be replaced by ship rats and stoats as the forest matures.
24060843|Many types of birds regularly consume fleshy fruits and, as seed dispersers, perform important mutualistic services for plants. Some frugivorous birds have recently been introduced to geographic locales beyond their native range. Are non-native birds important frugivores in their introduced range? To answer this question, I observed native and introduced birds foraging for fruits in a New Zealand forest at approximately 5-day intervals for 5 years. I then compared fruit consumption patterns of European blackbirds (Turdus merula) to native New Zealand birds to determine whether blackbirds are important frugivores in New Zealand. I also compared the fruit diets of blackbirds to previously published dietary records from similar latitude forests in the United Kingdom. Results showed that blackbirds were among the most common frugivores at both New Zealand sites. They exhibited similar levels of dietary diversity to native bird species and consumed an unusually broad composition of fruit species. Introduced blackbird populations also exhibited remarkably similar patterns in dietary diversity and composition to populations in their native range. Results suggest that introduced birds can form important mutualistic partnerships with native plants, as seed dispersers, in the absence of contemporary coevolution.
24053588|A number of Chatham Island plants show morphological differences from related plants on mainland New Zealand. These differences could have arisen as a result of freedom from moa browsing on the Chatham Islands. A possible test for this hypothesis is suggested.
24052645|The four major types of natural grasslands in Australia are described and their present status for preservation in national parks and nature reserves assessed. Management of the reserved areas for the future will require, in most cases, an increased level of understanding of community and species dynamics, especially in response to a range of fire and grazing regimes. An example is discussed for each of two grassland types in contrasting regions of Australia.
24054653|Hybridisation is a rare event in facultatively apomictic species. We report the recovery of two hybrids from reciprocal crosses between the facultatively apomictic species Hieracium praealtum and H. caespitosum. Both parents were tetraploid (2n=4x=36). H. caespitosum x H. praealtum (CR6) was a hexaploid (2n=6x=54) and an apomict. The increased ploidy number is evidence of a BIII hybrid origin, having arisen from the fusion of a reduced and an unreduced gamete. In contrast, the hybrid recovered from the reciprocal cross H. praealtum x H. caespitosum (RC4) was a tetraploid and therefore probably arose as a BII hybrid from the fusion of two reduced gametes. Further evidence for this is the expression of sexuality in this plant. As apomixis in Hieracium is thought to be determined by a single dominant locus, a sexual plant is consistent with a model of inheritance where this represents the putative homozygous recessive phenotype. The formation of a sexual plant from the hybridisation of apomicts has potentially significant evolutionary implications. The formation of an interspecific BIII hybrid has not previously been recorded.
24054684|This study reports the diet of feral ferrets (Mustela furo) in a pastoral habitat, East Otago, South Island, New Zealand. Rabbits (Oryctolagus cuniculus) were the most common prey of ferrets, occurring in 86.7% of scats, but birds (12.4%) and invertebrates (11.3%) were also frequently eaten. Female ferrets ate more non-lagomorph prey items, especially invertebrates and birds than males. No signigicant dietary differences were found between juvenile and adult ferrets except in summer when juveniles ate more lagomorph prey. There were seasonal differences in the consumption of rabbits, invertebrates, skinks, possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) and small and large secondary prey items. Seasonal differences in ferret diet are likely to be related to the relative abundance of the various prey items. Lagomorph availability may also be a determinant of the frequency of occurrence of other prey items in the diet. Dietary differences may differentially influence the functional response of adults and juveniles and/or males and females to rabbit control or other manipulations of prey populations. Bovine tuberculosis (Mycobacterium bovis) infections in ferret populations show intraspecific variation with more males than females and more adults than juveniles infected. Intraspecific dietary differences in diet were not observed in the species (possums and hedgehogs (Erinaceus europaeus)) considered to be the main sources of infection for ferrets.
24052376|Information on diameter frequency distributions and spatial patterns, together with estimates of diameter growth and mortality, are used to draw up regeneration balance sheets for three stands of red beech (Nothofagus fusca) on Mount Colenso, New Zealand. Because large canopy gaps are a feature of these forests, attention is directed particularly to their future status. It is concluded that, in the short-term, a further opening of the canopy is likely in the higher altitude forest. This forest appears to have developed following catastrophic destruction, and its predominantly even-aged red beech population may be still undergoing competitive thinning. At lower altitudes uneven-aged forest is likely to maintain its present canopy structure. Simple mathematical predictions based on the Leslie Matrix Model indicate that, in the longer term, the present population has the potential to colonize the larger gaps in all the stands. However, such predictions do not take account of the observed lack of suitable microsites for seedling survival in the centres of large gaps. Small canopy gaps created by the fall of one or two trees are a consequence of the regeneration strategy in uneven-aged stands. The varying ages and spatial distributions of such gaps lead to considerable variation in size class frequency distribution from place to place. The strategy of individual replacement in "stable" forests, which generates small gaps of varying duration, may render such forests particularly susceptible to invasion by other species.
24052747|Vegetation and habitat descriptions are given for sites that span the very limited environmental range of southern outlier stands of hard beech (Nothofagus truncata). These are on well-drained, north to northwest aspect slopes at 44S in South Westland, 260km south of the species' previously assumed southern limit. Size class distributions and diameter growth rates of hard beech stems indicate that it is competing effectively with podocarp and broadleaved species, including the two other beeches present. Of the three local species (mountain beech  N. solandri var. cliffortioides and silver beech  N. menziesii), only hard beech showed a significant relationship between stem diameter and age, though diameter growth rates were generally similar among the three species. The erratic distribution of the three local beech species in the Haast and adjacent Paringa Ecological Districts is discussed in relation to possible glacial refugia. The scientific and conservation values of the outlier stands are emphasised.
24056421|Pollen and charcoal analyses of sediments from northern coastal Taranaki, New Zealand, show that Maori settlement impacts on the vegetation began with the burning of tall coastal forest in the mid-17th century. Forest was replaced with a fern-shrubland, and small wetlands expanded with changing hydrological conditions. This forest clearance was much later than in most regions of the country, where major forest disturbance and clearance began between AD 1200 and AD 1400. However, Maori were known to be using the forested coastal Taranaki landscape from at least AD 1300 to hunt the now extinct moa, and to collect shellfish, but neither of these activities necessarily required forest clearance or permanent settlement. Preserved rat-gnawed seeds in the wetland deposits provide evidence for the presence of the introduced kiore (Polynesian rat, Rattus exulans) in coastal Taranaki from about AD 1200, significantly before forest clearance or permanent human settlement. Although kiore were present in the coastal forests for as much as 400 years before forest clearance, the pollen records do not show any changes in forest composition during this time.
24052642|Feral cats (Felis catus) are very scarce on Campbell Island (52S, 169E). Scats were collected during three summer visits and later examined. Norway rats (Rattus norvegicus) were much the most important prey, although birds and insects were also taken.
24058173|New Zealand bracken (Pteridium esculentum) belongs to a group of closely related fern species of near global extent. Pteridium species worldwide are aggressive, highly productive, seral plants, functionally more akin to shrubs than ferns. Their deeply buried starch-rich rhizomes allow them to survive repeated fire and their efficient nutrient uptake permits exploitation of a wide range of soils. They are limited by cool annual temperatures, frost, wind, and shallow, poorly drained and acidic soils. Bracken stands accumulate large amounts of inflammable dead fronds and deep litter and often persist by facilitating fire that removes woody competitors. Bracken was present but not abundant in New Zealand before the arrival of humans. Occasional fire or other disturbances created transient opportunities for it. Rhyolitic volcanic eruptions led to short-lived expansions of bracken, and it briefly became dominant over ash-affected areas of the central North Island after the large AD 186 Taupo Tephra eruption. Andesitic eruptions had limited effects. Bracken became one of the most abundant plants in the country after the arrival of Maori in the 13th century, when massive deforestation affected most of the lowland landscape. The bracken-dominated vegetation that formed in most places immediately after burning gave way with time to fire-maintained mosaics in which bracken dominated on deeper soils and under moist, mild climates. Although Maori relied on bracken rhizome starch as a major element of their diet, food-quality rhizomes were obtained only on deep, moderately fertile soils. The dominance of bracken over very large areas was mainly a result of burning to create open landscapes for access and ease of travel. Bracken remained a troublesome weed through the European pastoral period and well into the 20th century. Bracken has a problematical role in conservation as it can form a persistent, fire-prone, low-diversity cover in drier regions. However, it is an indigenous plant that is effective in preventing erosion and, in wetter areas, it will easily suppress exotic grasses and facilitate regeneration to forest. It should be considered an essential component of landscapes conserved for their historical significance to Maori.
24053666|The objective of this study was to quantify the population dynamics, morphological characteristics, and diet of rodents on Rangitoto Island (Hauraki Gulf, New Zealand) to provide information for the future development of an eradication strategy. An aerial 1080 operation to eradicate possums and wallabies was carried out two months after the study began. The effects of this operation on rodent population dynamics are discussed. Both ship rats (Rattus rattus) and mice (Mus musculus) were trapped on Rangitoto Island over a 15 month period. A two month decline in mouse abundance was noticed following poisoning; following this the population recovered rapidly, reaching a peak of 12 captures per hundred trap nights (12 C100TN1) in autumn and then declining over winter. A longer decline in ship rat abundance was observed, although this reached a pre-poisoning level of 1.6 C100TN1 in April. Thereafter the population did not reach pre-poisoning levels again. Total body length and weight were significantly related to age, and were similar to those of mice and ship rats recorded in other New Zealand studies. The majority of breeding appeared to occur between September and May for both species. There was evidence of delayed reproductive maturity for female mice and rats born at the end of summer. A relatively large number of young mice were caught in autumn, with very few being caught in spring. Invertebrates were the major component of both species' diet, with weta (Hemideina thoracica) predominant, while plant matter was a minor constituent. The nematodes Physoloptera getula and Mastophorus muris were present in the stomachs of 22% of mice and 59% of ship rats.
24054783|The risks to non-target species of a newly developed bait containing either 0.15% 1080 or 0.6% cholecalciferol in a gel matrix were assessed. Very few of them ate gel bait. The safety of the gel bait is further enhanced by its placement in the purpose-designed bait station from which little spillage occurs, and which can be placed so that it is out of reach of most non-target animals. Comparative data show that non-target species are considerably less susceptible to cholecalciferol than to sodium monofluoroacetate (1080). Risks to non-target species could be further reduced by use of the cholecalciferol form of the bait.
24066769|Aspects of the production and vegetative performance of Calluna vulgaris (heather) were examined in four areas of New Zealand between 1981 and 1983; Tongariro National Park in the North Island, together with Mount Cook National Park, the Wilderness Scientific Reserve, and Ben Callum peat bog in the South Island. The height and height/width quotient of Calluna bushes, the diameter increment of woody stems and the amount of flowers/stem all decreased with altitude. Other age-adjusted components of stem biomass were positively related to soil depth, soil moisture, soil organic content and soil pH. Biomass by direct harvest gave values between 300 g m2 and 2200 g m2 for plant communities with Calluna. These are similar values to recorded from British and European heaths, although the contribution of Calluna to the total biomass was often less in New Zealand. Calluna from New Zealand has a higher proportion of wood relative to total biomass than is normally found in Britain and Europe and this is probably related to the management of British and European heaths by burning. Multiple regressions indicated that increased woodiness is associated with lower altitudes and deeper, moister soils. Woodiness tended to decrease on more organic and more acidic soils, with a corresponding increase in the proportion of green shoots. Flowering declined with increased altitude, while the proportion of green shoots relative to total biomass increased. It is suggested that the upward extension of Calluna within Tongariro National Park is limited mainly by constraints on flowering and sexual reproduction.
24054436|Previous work in New Zealand has shewn that genetic variation within populations of Agrostis capillaris can be comparable to that between populations, even between populations over a very wide environmental range. To determine whether this reflects the recent advent of A. capillaris in New Zealand, with a small founding gene pool and a short time for ecotypic differentiation, populations from a comparable range of environments were sampled randomly in the same way in Britain. Populations were grown in comparable conditions in the two countries, but to ensure comparability only proportional variation was examined. Characters used in the assessment of within- and between-population variation were stem+sheath length, lamina length, lamina width and relative growth rate. Within populations, there were highly significant genotypic differences, especially in the British populations. Differences between populations were rather greater than those within-populations, and for lamina length this was significant in both countries. For both Britain and New Zealand, there were cases where the two genotypes sampled from a population were similar in a particular character. In some cases, populations from comparable habitats in the two countries were similar to each other. For the three morphological characters, total genotypic variation over all populations sampled was greater in Britain than in New Zealand. For some characters this was due to between-site variation, and for some to within-site variation. It is concluded that some of the evidence for non-adaptation in A. capillaris in New Zealand is caused by a more limited gene pool, and insufficient time for sorting of genotypes into habitats.
24054694|We sampled soils and vegetation within and outside two sheep and rabbit exclosures, fenced in 1979, on steep sunny and shady slopes at 770 m altitude on seasonally-dry pastoral steeplands. The vegetation of sunny aspects was characterised by higher floristic diversity, annual species, and low plant cover. Here the exotic grass Anthoxanthum odoratum dominated on grazed treatments, and the exotic forb Hieracium pilosella on ungrazed. Shady aspects supported fewer, and almost entirely perennial, species. Here Hieracium pilosella dominated grazed treatments, but co-dominated with the exotic forb H. praealtum and the native grass Festuca novae-zelandiae on ungrazed treatments. There was 43% more biomass in exclosures (P<0.01). Most of the biomass difference (4285 kg/ha) was from greater root mass (2400 kg/ha). 1385 kg/ha of the difference was from herbage and the remainder (500 kg/ha) from litter. Exclosures had 50 to 100% more Ca, Mg, K and P in the biomass (P<0.05), but the effect on soils was limited to significantly higher concentrations of total N (P<0.05) and exchangeable Mg (P<0.01) in 0-7.5 cm soils. We conclude that stopping grazing for 16 years on seasonally-dry steeplands results in greater plant cover, approximately double the biomass of standing vegetation, greater biomass in roots, and more biomass nutrients relative to grazed areas. However, it does not favour native species and has little effect on soil nutrients or soil carbon. Stopping grazing alone therefore cannot be regarded as a comprehensive short- or medium-term vegetation or soil rehabilitation option.
24060798|Many of New Zealand's natural and induced tussock grasslands are in a degraded low-biomass state due to a combination of fire, overgrazing and weed invasion. The capacity of degraded grasslands to recover biomass is uncertain because legacies of degradation can strongly influence the demographic processes controlling ecosystem recovery. We develop a conceptual framework for understanding biomass carbon (C) flux in degraded perennial grassland based on demographic processes of growth, mortality and recruitment. We apply this framework to 22 years of data from Chionochloa- and Festuca-dominated perennial tussock grassland in the South Island high country, sampling two grazed sites and two sites retired from domestic grazing. Total biomass C stocks were assessed at site level using 174 temporary plots measured in 1989 and 2011. Long-term demographics were monitored using 24 permanent plots in which 7213 individual tussocks were tagged and monitored every 15 years from 1989 to 2011. Although biomass C stocks were generally low (2159  494 kg C ha1), there was a significant increase in total biomass C over the 22-year period at the north-facing retired site of 92  47 kg C ha1 year1. Increases in total biomass C were generally due to recruitment and growth of tall tussock (Chionochloa spp.) and/or woody shrubs. Biomass C stock in grazed sites, and the retired south-facing site, declined by up to 65 kg C ha1 year1 or remained constant. Declines were due to dieback of the dominant short tussock (Festuca novae-zelandiae) across all treatments, and a lack of recruitment of tall tussock and shrub species. Our results suggest that retirement from grazing was not sufficient to ensure total biomass C gains after 22 years, and highlight the roles of recruitment limitation, shrub establishment and management history in controlling ecosystem recovery.
24058195|In New Zealand, alpine grasslands occur above the treeline of beech forest. Historically stoat control paradigms in New Zealand's montane natural areas have assumed alpine grassland is a marginal habitat that limits dispersal between beech forest stoat populations. We compared the summer-to-autumn (JanuaryApril) density, weight, diet and winter survival of stoats between these two habitats during years of low beech seedfall. Stoats were live-trapped, marked and released in alpine grassland and low-altitude beech forest in the Borland Valley, Fiordland National Park, during 2003 and 2004, and were caught and euthanased for necropsy in 2005. Stoat density was estimated using spatially explicit capturerecapture (SECR). The proportion of stoats marked in one year but recaptured in the next was used as a measure of 'observed survival'. Prey remains were identified from scats collected during 2003 and 2004 and stomachs from stoats killed in 2005. Stoat density was similar in both habitats over the two years, about one stoat per square kilometre. Observed survival from 20032004 was also similar, but survival from 20042005 was higher in alpine grassland than in beech forest. In 2003, male stoats were on average heavier in alpine grassland than in beech forest, although average weights were similar in the other years. Diet differed significantly between the two habitats, with stoats in alpine grasslands eating mainly ground weta (a large invertebrate) (72%) and hares (23%), while stoats in beech forest ate mainly birds (31%) and mice (19%). Collectively these results suggest that alpine grasslands are not a poor quality habitat for stoats. Traditionally it has been thought that stoats cannot survive on invertebrate prey alone. This research demonstrates that stoats relying largely on invertebrate prey can occur at similar densities and with equivalent survival to stoats relying on vertebrate prey.
24056168|Models were developed to examine the efficacy of immunocontraception as an alternative control method for pest rabbits. The models simulated the dynamics of rabbit populations structured by age and sex, and helped identify the benefits of an integrated pest management strategy that includes immunocontraception and lethal control. Virally vectored immunocontraception (VVIC) using a sterilising myxoma virus reduced the long-term density of rabbits. However, our models indicated that the efficacy of VVIC is much less than using lethal methods of management currently available (e.g. poison baiting). Nevertheless, in areas where lethal control cannot be used, a sterilising strain of myxoma may be a useful tool for rabbit management, but competition between sterilising and non-sterilising strains will reduce the overall efficacy of VVIC. Regardless of how effective poisoning is at reducing rabbit numbers, the benefits in terms of increased pasture availability and wool growth may not outweigh the costs incurred by a poisoning campaign. In our analysis the most cost-effective control remains natural epizootics of myxomatosis since they do not incur a cost to the landholder. There is likely to be some small additional benefit to releasing a sterilising strain of myxoma, and landholders may need to supplement this with baiting under some circumstances (e.g. above average breeding season or areas where myxomatosis occur infrequently).
24060739|We compared establishment of Douglas fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) and Corsican pine (Pinus nigra) seedlings in knuka (Kunzea ericoides) and mnuka (Leptospermum scoparium) shrubland to test the hypothesis that Douglas fir, because of its greater shade tolerance, is better able to establish in woody communities than pine species. Seed of the conifer species was sown under a range of canopy covers at six sites, the cover being low-statured vegetation in openings between stands, stand edges, and moderate and dense canopies. After three growing seasons, survival of Corsican pine seedlings was greatest in the open and declined progressively as canopy cover increased. This contrasted with Douglas fir, where survival was greatest at the canopy edge. Survival of Douglas fir seedlings significantly exceeded that of Corscican pine seedlings under dense canopy positions. Seedling numbers of both species declined significantly with increasing leaf area index of mnuka, but not knuka stands, where seedling numbers were lower. Leaf area index of mnuka stands accounted for substantially greater variation in number and survival of Corsican pine than Douglas fir seedlings. It is concluded that Douglas fir is better able to establish in shaded environments in woody communities than Corsican pine; however, further monitoring is required to confirm the long-term survival of both species under the moderate and dense canopy positions in this trial.
24060661|A recent advance in biosecurity surveillance design aims to benefit island conservation through early and improved detection of incursions by non-indigenous species. The novel aspects of the design are that it achieves a specified power of detection in a cost-managed system, while acknowledging heterogeneity of risk in the study area and stratifying the area to target surveillance deployment. The design also utilises a variety of surveillance system components, such as formal scientific surveys, trapping methods, and incidental sightings by non-biologist observers. These advances in design were applied to black rats (Rattus rattus) representing the group of invasive rats including R. norvegicus, and R. exulans, which are potential threats to Barrow Island, Australia, a high value conservation nature reserve where a proposed liquefied natural gas development is a potential source of incursions. Rats are important to consider as they are prevalent invaders worldwide, difficult to detect early when present in low numbers, and able to spread and establish relatively quickly after arrival. The 'exemplar' design for the black rat is then applied in a manner that enables the detection of a range of non-indigenous species of rat that could potentially be introduced. Many of the design decisions were based on expert opinion as data gaps exist in empirical data. The surveillance system was able to take into account factors such as collateral effects on native species, the availability of limited resources on an offshore island, financial costs, demands on expertise and other logistical constraints. We demonstrate the flexibility and robustness of the surveillance system and discuss how it could be updated as empirical data are collected to supplement expert opinion and provide a basis for adaptive management. Overall, the surveillance system promotes an efficient use of resources while providing defined power to detect early rat incursions, translating to reduced environmental, resourcing and financial costs.
24060838|The control of introduced mammalian predators has become a standard response to protecting the viability of threatened wildlife species on oceanic islands. However, examples of successful outcomes of integrated pest control in forests are few. We investigated the efficacy of a pest control programme in the Landsborough Valley, New Zealand, during 19982009, which used continuous trapping to control mustelids and pulsed aerial application of the toxin 1080 to control rats (Rattus spp.) and brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecula). We predicted recovery in the populations of mohua (Mohoua ochrocephala) and other predator-sensitive hole-nesting birds and maintenance of numbers of South Island kaka (Nestor meridionalis meridionalis). In addition, we examined whether annual mean counts of mohua and kaka, as potential 'population indicator species', could predict those of other forest bird species. Annual counts of nine species (eight indigenous: bellbird Anthornis melanura, brown creeper Mohoua novaeseelandiae, fantail Rhipidura fuliginosa, grey warbler Gerygone igata, mohua, rifleman Acanthisitta chloris, tui Prosthemadera novaeseelandiae and yellow-crowned parakeet Cyanoramphus auriceps; one introduced: song thrush Turdus philomelos) showed significant increases during the 12-year study period. South Island kaka and redpoll (Carduelis flammea) showed no change with time. In general, trends in the two focal threatened taxa (mohua and kaka) were poor predictors of trends in other bird species. Lack of correlation in annual counts between bird species that share a recovery trajectory are likely due to differences in breeding biology and resource use. Our results suggest that an integrated strategy for predator management is effective at mitigating the impacts of predation by introduced mammals on forest birds, including the most vulnerable species, at a landscape scale.
24054685|The effects of environment and management on the composition of short-tussock grasslands and the abundance of the invasive weed Hieracium pilosella were investigated in two small catchments. Species composition and site factors were recorded on a total of 182 plots and the management history of each catchment was reviewed. H. pilosella was present on >80% of all plots, but was at an early stage of invasion in one catchment (<5% cover) and dominant in the other (25% cover). Classification and ordination revealed strong between-catchment differences in community composition that reflected differences in environment (soil fertility and rainfall), disturbance history (animal populations and burning), and the stage of invasion by H. pilosella. In both catchments H. pilosella tended to be least abundant on the wettest, driest, and most fertile soils. However, such relationships were weak. Generalised additive models and regression showed that in the earlier stage of invasion individual site factors explained less than 20% of the variation in H. pilosella cover. Topographic position and slope (both indicative of soil moisture) were the most significant combined predictors, but together explained only 32% of the variation. In the later stage of invasion individual factors explained up to 33% of the variation. Topsoil sulphur, slope and topsoil calcium were the most significant combined predictors, but together explained only 53% of the variation. Between-catchment comparisons highlighted the inter-related roles of environment, disturbance history, geographic location, availability of H. pilosella propagules, and stage of invasion in more fully explaining the abundance of H. pilosella. Of five models that have been proposed for Hieracium invasion, the "grassland decline" model best incorporated the inter-related factors that influence spatial and temporal variation in H. pilosella abundance in the study area. This model concentrates on identifying predisposing and trigger factors that increase the likelihood of invasion and accounts for multiple causes and interactions by specifying five key factors that influence the ability of a plant species to invade existing vegetation: environment, disturbance, vegetation structure and composition, life history attributes of the invader, and the availability of invading propagules. The model potentially provides a comprehensive framework for evaluating the causes of Hieracium invasion, targeting research effort, and developing sustainable management strategies.
24052377|The relationships between age and diameter for red beech (Nothofagus fusca) at six sites in the South Island and on Mt Colenso in the North Island of New Zealand are illustrated and discussed. Red beech trees of one diameter varied in age by up to 150 years, but in any one area the correlation between age and diameter was significant. The coefficient of slope of the linear regressions of age on diameter ranged from 1.0 to 3.0 years/cm. The maximum longevity of the species was c. 500 years. Plotting the mean altitudes from which the samples were obtained against their mean growth rates revealed a steep and significant trend. The maximum average (between trees) growth rate was c. 1.0 cm/year for stands at the lower limit of the species, falling by c. 0.076 cm/year for every 100 m of altitude gained. These growth rate relationships are compared with data from other species of Nothofagus, in particular N. menziesii. It is suggested that if growth rate is taken to be a component of the competitive balance between these two species, this balance varies continuously with altitude, red beech gradually losing its advantage as it ascends. The struggle for dominance may occur in the seedling and sapling stages following colonisation of limited microsites by seedlings of both species.
24060860|Productivity data on the New Zealand falcon (Falco novaeseelandiae) were collected from 87 nest sites in Kaingaroa pine plantation during three breeding seasons, 2003 to 2006. On average, 1.81 chicks were successfully fledged per nest, with young reared successfully at 71% of nests. Breeding occurred between August and March, with most eggs laid before December and most chicks fledged by February. Fifteen percent of nests were depredated, 9% contained eggs that failed to develop and 4% failed owing to forestry operations disturbing or destroying nests. No negative impact of 1080 bait or of desiccant or release spray application was recorded on falcon productivity. The population of falcons in Kaingaroa Forest increased during a period of pest control using 1080 bait so we see no reason to discontinue its use. Although impacts from forestry operations were low and restricted to land preparation and harvesting operations, there is potential for adverse impacts to increase. Mechanical forestry operations can continue without negative impacts by avoiding a buffer zone of 100200 m around an active falcon nest.
24058100|Himalayan thar or tahr (Hemitragus jemlahicus), Alpine chamois (Rupicapra rupicapra) and brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) are native to the Himalaya, Europe and Australia, respectively, but are now sympatric in parts of the central Southern Alps, New Zealand. All three species are managed as pests by the Department of Conservation. We analysed the diets of 246 thar, 78 chamois and 113 possums collected in the central Southern Alps during 19881996. The diets of thar and chamois strongly overlapped, but thar ate more grasses and less herbs and woody plants than chamois. The diet of possums differed from the diets of thar and chamois, containing a different suite of herbs and almost no grasses. The diets of thar, chamois and possums varied seasonally. Contrary to expectation, the diets of adult male and female thar were similar during the period when they are spatially segregated (OctoberMay). Chamois sampled outside the thar range ate more species than those sampled inside the thar range, suggesting the presence of thar modifies the diet of chamois. If managers wish to protect the dominant Chionochloa snow tussocks then thar should be controlled; chamois should be controlled to protect herbs such as Ranunculus spp.; and possums should be controlled if Podocarpus nivalis or Muehlenbeckia axillaris need to be protected. However, managers need to be aware of the potential for chamois to increase in abundance, at least in some sites, if thar are controlled to low abundance, and that this could lead to different impacts on plant populations.
24054765|To establish whether poisoning programs affect non-target density, the null hypothesis that density does not decline on poisoned sites needs to be tested. However, where no statistically significant reduction in density is found, there is some probability that a biologically significant reduction has been overlooked. The probability that such an error has occurred (a Type 2 error) depends on the effect poisoning has on non-target density, the precision with which the reduction is assessed, and the number of poisoning operations sampled. Prospective power analysis can identify minimum sample sizes that reduce the probability of a Type 2 error to acceptable levels. Equivalence tests require a priori identification of the minimum change in non-target density that can be safely overlooked and the acceptable probability of doing so. As such, they explicitly link the statistical and biological significance of non-target poisoning assessments. We illustrate these principles using an experimental assessment of the effect rabbit poisoning has on the density of large kangaroo populations in Australia. A rule-of-thumb guide was used to estimate appropriate levels of power (0.85) and reductions in kangaroo density (r = 0.12) for the assessment, and a pilot study conducted to estimate the between-sample standard deviation for estimates of change in kangaroo density (s = 0.089). Prospective power analysis based on these estimates indicated that 6 poisoning programs would provide a robust assessment of the effect of poisoning on kangaroos. However, because the between-sample standard deviation was underestimated, a subsequent assessment based on 6 samples had insufficient power to usefully estimate the effect poisoning had on kangaroos. Retrospective power analysis indicated that at 0.85 power, reductions in kangaroo density as high as r = 2.2 may have been overlooked. Using the between-sample standard deviation from this assessment, changes in kangaroo density would have to be estimated for 17-19 poisoning programs if a subsequent experiment was to achieve a biologically as well as statistically robust result.
24053668|Growth, sun/shade acclimation and nitrogen nutrition were examined in Tradescantia fluminensis to gain greater understanding of why this species is so successful in New Zealand native forest remnants. Over a two year period, the rate of shoot extension of T. fluminensis in a New Zealand mixed mahoe (Melicytus ramiflorus) coastal forest remnant showed a similar pattern to monthly mean values for mean daily air temperature and day length. Growth at the shoot apex was balanced by death at the shoot base. During the first year, nitrate ($NO^{-}_{3}$) content of the plant in the field was always > 250 mol g1 dry weight. On high $NO^{-}_{3}$ supply in pot experiments, in a glasshouse or outdoors, total plant dry weight increased with increased relative irradiance from 1 to 30-50% (open ground photosynthetically active radiation = 100% relative irradiance). Changes in shoot to root dry weight ratio (S:R), specific leaf area (SLA) and leaf chlorophyll, carotenoid and protein content associated with decreased irradiance from 50 to 1% were similar to those associated with increased distance into the forest remnant and are discussed in relation to shade acclimation. Values for S:R (>30:1) and SLA (900 cm2 g1 dry weight) were extremely high at low irradiance. These results support earlier conclusions that irradiance level is likely to be the primary factor limiting the extent of colonisation of forest remnants by T. fluminensis. Under glasshouse conditions, the growth response of T. fluminensis to different ammonium and $NO^{-}_{3}$ concentrations was similar to that previously reported for herbaceous species capable of rapid growth. Leaf nitrate reductase activity was within the range previously reported for fast growing species. Tradescantia fluminensis accumulated substantial amounts of $NO^{-}_{3}$ in shoots with no depression in growth. This $NO^{-}_{3}$ was utilised when nitrogen became limiting to growth. An 'invasion strategy' of T. fluminensis into N.Z. native forest remnants is proposed.
24060653|Reintroduction programmes need to be monitored as a way of gauging potential causes of their success or failure. This, in turn, can be used to improve the likelihood of future translocation success. Since the 1990s, stitchbird (or hihi: Notiomystis cincta) translocations have been intensively monitored, with comparisons between two of these projects (Tiritiri Matangi Island  a successful introduction, and Mokoia Island  an unsuccessful introduction) often compared and contrasted as a means of identifying factors important in translocation success for this species. A consistently low adult survival rate on Mokoia Island in conjunction with a study showing a high prevalence of aspergillosis (a fungal disease of the respiratory tract caused by Aspergillus fumigatus) in adult stitchbirds led to this disease being commonly discussed as a major factor responsible for the difference in translocation outcomes. However, A. fumigatus infection rates have never been compared between the two stitchbird populations; thus, population differences in adult survival may have resulted from other factors. One possibility is that survival differences between populations were influenced by differing predation pressures from morepork (or ruru: Ninox novaeseelandiae). Evidence of stitchbird predation by moreporks and the fact that morepork density on Mokoia Island was markedly higher than on Tiritiri Matangi Island provides some support for this hypothesis. It is important that all plausible hypotheses for differences in survival be considered so that we can better evaluate future conservation strategies that target the recovery of this species.
24060897|When designing large-scale bird monitoring schemes, financial constraints often require researchers to make trade-offs in the spatial resolution and precision of the density estimates by varying the number of sites monitored and the intensity of sampling effort per site. Here, I compare density estimates of four common farmland bird species (skylark, blackbird, song thrush, Australasian magpie) on South Island sheep & beef farms collected using a large-scale monitoring scheme with equivalent estimates from a more intensive survey, and discuss possible sources of imprecision and bias in each. Density estimates from the intensive survey were generally lower and more precise than the monitoring-scheme ones, and the surveys were susceptible to different types of bias. These effects were linked to combined differences in modelling methods and sampling effort distribution, and to observer-related issues. In long-term designs, estimates from data pooled over several annual surveys are likely to become accurate quickly, but an increase in monitoring effort per site may be required to increase the precision of individual-survey estimates. Species that pose challenges to observers may be hard to estimate accurately with the monitoring-scheme design explored here, and the use of pilot surveys is recommended. Raw count data from the same species were tested for their usefulness in the creation of reliable relative population indices. A sufficiently constant ratio of plot-count indices to absolute density estimates was found in skylarks and thrushes, while inclusion of a correction parameter to account for woody vegetation effects on detectability was necessary in blackbirds, and magpie estimates proved unreliable. Similar analyses are recommended for all monitored species when trend estimation using relative indices is intended.
24052678|The kiwis analysed contained a wide range of invertebrate food species, most of which are associated with the bush margin. Individual gizzards contained high numbers of cicada nymphs and other species that are numerous, available throughout the year, or gregarious, and their presence is believed to reflect their availability rather than the bird's ability to select. Earthworm chaetae were present in 94%, and coleoptera (30% as adults, 70% as larvae) in 90% of 50 gizzards examined. A list of all invertebrates recorded in this, and earlier studies, is appended. Vegetable matter was found, often as incidental ingesta, in 93% of the samples and seed intake appeared to be inversely related to grit ingestion with hinau berries in particular playing a part in grinding food. Observations of captive birds indicates a likely intake of 330 Kcal of food each night, and their willingness to catch aquatic prey suggests that underwater foraging provides the principal use for their nasal valves. Both captive and feral kiwis demonstrate a reliance on olfaction for locating foods.
24060614|The diet and food preferences of the kerer (Hemiphaga novaeseelandiae) were studied in Whirinaki Forest Park, central North Island, New Zealand, during February 2000  March 2001. The study was carried out in two areas of podocarphardwood forest, Oriuwaka (1750 ha) and Otupaka (1830 ha). Fruit dominated in the diet at both sites (65% in Oriuwaka, 87% in Otupaka), but there were seasonal changes. Foliage and flowers were more important in the diet in winter and spring, but the timing of the switch from fruit to foliage differed between the areas. The main fruit eaten also changed seasonally from tawa (Beilschmiedia tawa) in early summer to miro (Prumnopitys ferruginea) in late summer and autumn. Variation in diet partly reflected seasonal phenology of the plants and differences in vegetation between the two areas, but when food-type availability is considered, kerer showed selective preference for some food types at some times. Miro and tawa fruits were highly preferred food types in both areas. This study highlights the likely need of kerer to have access to various vegetation types in order to meet their seasonally changing nutritional requirements in a podocarphardwood forest where the availability of food, especially fruits, can differ markedly both in time and space. Thus, large forest blocks that contain a variety of habitat types, or landscapes containing patches of various habitat types, are needed for the long-term conservation of kerer populations.
24060796|Para-aminopropiophenone (PAPP) paste was approved as a stoat control agent in New Zealand by the Environmental Protection Authority in August 2011 and for feral cat control in November 2011. PAPP was originally researched in Europe and the USA as treatment for cyanide and radiation poisoning. Over the last 10 years, our research has focused on several factors, including determining its toxicity to predators, field effectiveness for controlling stoats and feral cats, animal welfare profile, toxicology, ecotoxicology, and understanding and reducing non-target risks. PAPP has been developed specifically for the control of stoats and feral cats because of the special sensitivity displayed by these species. Its toxicity is mediated by the induction of methaemoglobinaemia (the ferric state of haemoglobin). Normally, methaemoglobin levels in the blood are below 1%. Levels of methaemoglobin in the blood above 70% are usually fatal, creating a lethal deficit of oxygen in cardiac muscle and the brain. In stoats and feral cats, death after a lethal dose usually occurs within 2 h after eating bait, with clinical signs first appearing in 10 to 20 min for stoats and at around 35 min for cats. Animals become lethargic and sleepy before they die, hence PAPP is relatively humane. A simple antidote exists, namely methylene blue. Further, birds display a lack of toxicity to PAPP when compared with other vertebrate pesticides. A paste containing 40% PAPP has been developed for use in meat baits in New Zealand. A toxic dose for stoats and feral cats is achieved when pea-sized amounts of paste are delivered in 1020 g meat baits. When meat baits containing PAPP are applied in bait stations in field settings, stoat and feral cat numbers can be rapidly reduced. However, there has been limited practical experience with PAPP to date, especially when compared with alternative tools such as traps or sodium monofluoroacetate (1080) baits. Additional practical experience should enable the effective use of PAPP as a tool to help protect native species from introduced predators. In the future, PAPP will be developed in long-life bait and in a resetting toxin delivery system.
24053632|Prey collected by Vespula vulgaris and V. germanica were sampled by intercepting foragers returning to nests at two sites in scrubland-pasture near Hamilton. About 12% of returning foragers carried animal prey and 5% carried wood pulp. The remaining 83% carried no external load. The most common prey item for both species was Diptera, followed by Lepidoptera and Araneae (spiders). Even in similar habitats the two species collected different prey, with V. germanica collecting more Diptera and V. vulgaris more Lepidoptera. The prey changed slightly over time at both sites. V. germanica and V. vulgaris collected an estimated 1800 g and 600 g of prey nest1 season1 respectively. The wasps collected an estimated 75 000 prey loads ha1 season1 at Mystery Creek and 12 000 at Ruakura. This represents biomasses of 50 and 470 g ha1, respectively, which are at least an order of magnitude lower than estimates of prey biomass for honeydew beech forest in parts of the South Island. The distribution of wasp nests was patchy however, and the biomass of prey collected exceeded 10 kg ha1 in some places.
24058215|Expenditure on endangered species management is increasing greatly, on a global basis. Managers need tools to evaluate the performance of endangered species programmes because there will always be more demand for resources than there are available. Cost Effectiveness Analysis (CEA) is used here to evaluate the performance of the kokako (Callaeas cinerea) recovery programme. This species is being managed at a number of sites in New Zealand and analysis shows a large variation in costs and effectiveness between these sites. Cost Effectiveness Analysis provides a tool to allow managers to better predict where resources should be invested to most cost-effectively achieve their conservation targets, in this case recovery of an endangered species. Issues of lack of reliable cost data and ongoing policy problems limit the potential of economics to contribute to improved conservation management of threatened species in New Zealand.
24060797|Biological nitrogen fixation (BNF) is a key process for ecosystem development on new substrates. On young volcanic substrates, the near absence of nitrogen (N) and the presence of available phosphorus (P) in the soil should stimulate the activity of diazotrophic, N-fixing, bacteria. Our main hypothesis is that ecosystem N gain through BNF is tightly coupled to the development of progressive and maximum phases of ecosystem succession, as element contents build up. We investigated ecosystem development in a well-established 60 000-year-old chronosequence in Llaima volcano, south-central Chile. Tree basal areas and total carbon (C), N and P contents in soils showed declining trends over the millennial chronosequence following maximum values between 326 and 3470 years of succession. Maximum rates of BNF (36 kg N ha1 year1) were recorded in the interval from 776 to 3470 years of substrate age, partly associated with high soil C and P contents, and with the lowest denitrification rates in the chronosequence (0.170.42 kg N ha1 year1). Accordingly, over this time interval, there was a positive balance of gaseous N fluxes (5.72.8 kg N ha1 year1), which produced the lowest 15N signal in the surface soil (15N = 4.6 ). In turn, the first stage of the chronosequence was characterised by low symbiotic N fixation associated with Racomitrium moss carpets (0.07 kg N ha1 year1) that did not compensate for denitrification losses (2.6 kg N ha1 year1), yielding a negative balance of N gas exchanges. At 3470 years in the chronosequence, BNF rates declined (1.042.3 kg N ha1 year1) and denitrification increased (1.22.5 kg N ha1 year1), leading to N losses and enriching the 15N signal in the surface soil (2.4 ). Finally, the oldest sites of the chronosequence presented BNF rates that balanced denitrification rates (1.3 kg N ha1 year1), thus supporting the hypothesis that a net nitrogen budget of zero for N gaseous fluxes characterises the retrogressive phase in this chronosequence.
24053181|A vegetation sampling technique is described where the prime measurement is only the listing of the relative order of abundance (rank) of species at a series of sample points and is estimated visually. Such data are appropriate for ordinal methods of statistical analysis. Repeated measurements show that the observer is only a small component of variation in rank values. The analysis of rank data for individual species is shown for deriving summary parameters, deriving association between species, and determining significance of changes in ranking with respect to qualitative or quantitative treatment variables. Vegetation types can be defined by the rank order of constituent species, and a hierarchial procedure is described for subdivision of sample data. Repeated measurements at regular intervals allow the application of the transition matrix approach to the study of vegetation trends.
24060803|The density of shrubs is increasing in many dry grassland ecosystems worldwide. In the dry interior of the South Island, New Zealand, secondary succession generates novel woody communities, as shrubs colonise anthropogenic grasslands where fire frequency has decreased. The avifauna of this dry region is also novel, with many indigenous birds extinct, extirpated or uncommon, and exotic species predominant. We studied how succession from grassland to shrubland habitats affects the abundance of dryland birds, by estimating population densities of nine common exotic and indigenous passerine bird species in dryland habitats in grassland, mixed grasslandshrubland and shrubland, at three sites in Central Otago, South Island. We used distance sampling along line transects to estimate densities. Generally, succession from grassland to forest leads to decreased numbers of granivorous birds and feeding generalists, and increased numbers of insectivores. We therefore predicted that density of birds in five guilds would change as follows during succession to woodier habitats: (1) granivores: decrease, (2) a primarily ground-nesting, ground-feeding granivoreinsectivore: decrease; (3) a tree- and shrub-nesting granivoreinsectivore: increase; (4) ground-feeding insectivores: increase; (5) indigenous insectivores: increase. Our predictions were supported for only one guild. Yellowhammer (Emberiza citronella) (exotic primarily ground-nesting, ground-feeding granivoreinsectivore that prefers open country) declined in density as woody-species frequency increased. Exotic European goldfinch (Carduelis carduelis) and common redpoll (C. flammea) (granivores) were most abundant at intermediate woodiness. Densities of other guilds did not vary consistently with woodiness. We conclude that continued succession to shrubland in Central Otago will have little effect on densities of many common exotic passerine birds, but may lead to local declines in yellowhammer, and ultimately goldfinch and redpoll. Our density estimates for silvereye (Zosterops lateralis) and grey warbler (Gerygone igata) were lower than densities reported in forests; therefore later stages of succession may benefit these widespread indigenous insectivores.
24056437|We document an increase in house mouse (Mus musculus) abundance in a year (2002) when there was light beech (Nothofagus species) seedfall but very heavy rimu (Dacrydium cupressinum) seedfall in Waitutu Forest, southern New Zealand. On our nine study grids, mouse numbers in November were highly correlated with rimu seedfall. Feeding trials with wild-caught captive mice showed that mice typically opened the rimu nut and ate the seed (endosperm and embryo) leaving the husk. Chemical analysis showed that the nutritional content and calorific value of rimu seed was more than sufficient to sustain growth and reproduction in house mice. We conclude that the heavy rimu seedfall drove the house mouse population eruption in Waitutu Forest. Although large increases in house mouse populations in beech forest systems are well documented, this is the first description of a mouse population increase as a result of a podocarp seeding event in New Zealand. We highlight the potential risk these dynamics pose to threatened native birds living in mixed forest systems.
24055343|Although reproductive and behavioural studies have been conducted on captive tree weta, there have been very few ecological field studies of any of the weta species involving free-ranging, marked individuals. The mountain stone weta (Hemideina maori) is a tree weta that lives on rock tors in the alpine region of the South Island of New Zealand. Over three seasons each of 480 adults and 789 juveniles was individually marked on four large and 14 small tors to gather baseline information on aspects of H. maori's life cycle and life history. Seasonal patterns were seen in the appearance of the smallest nymphs, moulting, and in the survival and recruitment of adults. Some marked juveniles were recaptured after 10 or more months, with a maximum interval of 14.1 months, indicating that instar intervals can be exceptionally long. Adult males and females had similar survival rates and often lived for 2 or 3 breeding seasons. Relatively high recapture rates (6070%) and long life spans make adult H. maori amenable to modern mark-recapture analyses using the programme MARK. We believe this research will be a useful template for further mark-recapture studies such as those to verify life history characteristics of endangered species of weta or the effects of secondary poisoning on invertebrates.
24058105|There is concern that avian malaria maybe partly responsible for fluctuations in yellow-eyed penguin (Megadyptes antipodes) populations in New Zealand. Recent findings, however, have provided no evidence of avian malaria parasites infecting yellow-eyed penguins on the Otago Peninsula, raising questions as to whether this area is currently free of such parasites. To test this possibility we collected blood samples from 109 individuals of five non-native bird species known to carry malarial parasites elsewhere in New Zealand. Molecular screening by polymerase chain reaction revealed 6% of the sampled birds were positive for malarial parasites, indicating that a local reservoir of infection is present. Sequence data revealed a generalist strain of Plasmodium is present, one that infects a number of native and non-native bird species elsewhere in the country. The absence of this generalist strain in yellow-eyed penguins, some of which were sampled during the same period as the current study, may be due to low levels of mosquito vectors of disease during the study period, low densities of non-native birds around yellow-eyed penguin colonies, or infected penguins dying before they could be sampled. Continued monitoring of mosquito populations and the factors that affect their densities should be included in the future management of native birds in this area.
24054689|The pattern of herbivore damage on the New Zealand pepper tree (kawakawa; Macropiper excelsum) caused by its main insect herbivore (Cleora scriptaria) was investigated in the field and laboratory. In the field, only a small proportion of kawakawa leaves had no herbivore damage and C. scriptaria typically produced a number of small holes in each leaf. Leaves were shed at a rapid rate but leaf shedding was not increased by higher levels of herbivore damage. Some older leaves had less damage than would be expected for their age, possibly suggesting some variation in leaf susceptibility to herbivory. The effect of previous leaf damage on subsequent herbivory was examined in the field and laboratory. On no occasion did artificial leaf damage, or herbivory by larvae of the same or another species, affect the edibility of leaves to C. scriptaria. The results suggest that leaf shedding by kawakawa was not primarily a response to herbivore damage and induced defences against herbivores could not be demonstrated in this system.
24060785|Many endemic species on islands are vulnerable to predation and local extinction by introduced rats (Rattus spp.). As a result, the reintroduction of species to predator-free sanctuaries is a successful conservation strategy, especially in New Zealand. Nevertheless, reintroduced populations, even those that reach high densities, are still vulnerable to predation in the event of a rat reinvasion, and may also be susceptible to non-target poisoning during a subsequent eradication operation. We quantify for the first time the changes in population size and survival rate of a well-established, reintroduced species (Stewart Island robins, Petroica australis rakiura) following the reinvasion and eradication of Norway rats (Rattus norvegicus) on Ulva Island, New Zealand, in 2011. The robin population declined by nearly one-third (31.5%; 432 to 296 adults) in the breeding season following the rat reinvasion and eradication. The survival rate of robins prior to the poison operation was only slightly lower than expected, which suggests the growing population of Norway rats may have had a relatively minor negative effect on robin survival. In contrast, the majority of the decline occurred immediately following the poison operation. This suggests the robins were susceptible to non-target poisoning from the brodifacoum poison bait, although the robin population would have likely declined even further if Norway rats had not been eradicated. Our results indicate the importance of developing permanent surveillance systems on island sanctuaries to detect and kill rats upon arrival in order to avoid the potentially high rates of non-target poisoning associated with post-invasion, large-scale eradication operations.
24056342|Brodifacoum is a second-generation anticoagulant used for rodent control in New Zealand. Concerns about the poisoning of non-target species have resulted in restrictions being imposed on the mainland. It is, however, still commonly employed on offshore islands. Previous research investigating the poisoning risks of brodifacoum has generally focused on birds eating brodifacoum bait (primary poisoning) or through depredation of live rodents or carrion containing brodifacoum residues (secondary poisoning). Other research has highlighted the potential for secondary poisoning of birds via the consumption of contaminated invertebrates. An inspection of rodent bait stations undertaken on Quail Island revealed that both cave and ground weta were feeding on brodifacoum bait. A sample of ground weta (Hemiandrus n. sp.) and cave weta (Pleioplectron simplex) was removed from Quail Island and exposed to toxic bait for 60 days. These weta were then assayed for brodifacoum residues and the values used to quantify the secondary poisoning risk for bird species found around Quail Island. We also calculated the risk to birds of secondary poisoning from the tree weta (Hemideina ricta) and the risk of primary poisoning via direct consumption of brodifacoum bait. The LD50 estimates indicated a low risk of secondary poisoning from contaminated ground weta and cave weta. By contrast, the estimates indicated a higher risk from larger-bodied tree weta; however, our calculations were based on a single residue concentration value and should be treated with caution. Of most concern was the primary poisoning risk from the brodifacoum bait. The results indicated that all the 17 bird species assessed are more susceptible to primary poisoning than secondary poisoning and access to brodifacoum bait by non-target bird species needs to be minimised.
24052712|Thrips, in particular Thrips obscuratus, were collected from the flowers of 13 species of trees common in the lowland forest of New Zealand. Many New Zealand trees have flowers which are small, shallow, clustered, and lack bright colours. This unspecialized floral form is suitable for pollination by small insects, such as flies and thrips. Thrips obscuratus is among the most frequent visitors to the flowers of some trees. The pollen loads of the thrips and the breeding system of the plants indicate thrips may function as effective pollinators.
24058161|Despite the global importance of New Zealand's invertebrates, relatively little is known about them and their relationships with plants and plant communities in native habitats. Invertebrate diversity was examined by beating randomly chosen shrubs of the species Olearia bullata (Asteraceae) and Coprosma propinqua (Rubiaceae). Invertebrate taxon richness was assessed initially using morphospecies, which were identified subsequently by expert taxonomists. Though the taxon richness of invertebrates recorded from O. bullata was not significantly higher than that on C. propinqua (except for the orders Diptera and Hemiptera), there was a clear indication that O. bullata hosts a higher diversity of invertebrates. Mean number of taxa per shrub for O. bullata was higher in all cases (except Coleoptera), and so was the maximum number of taxa per shrub. Overall, O. bullata yielded 115 invertebrate taxa compared with 93 for C. propinqua. Moreover, 50 invertebrate taxa were restricted to O. bullata compared with 28 for C. propinqua. Since at least ten species of Olearia are threatened or uncommon, this could be cause for concern with respect to the maintenance of invertebrate diversity. Therefore, sites where Olearia species are still present are likely to be of significance for invertebrate conservation.
24060819|In New Zealand, there are treelines of two main forms: abrupt southern beech treelines and gradual coniferbroadleaved treelines. At similar latitudes, abrupt treelines form at higher elevation than gradual treelines, but it is unclear whether this difference is also reflected in the climatic conditions experienced at the contrasting treeline ecotones. In this study, we measured soil and air temperatures across four gradual and two abrupt treelines ecotones in New Zealand for 2 years, and compared the climatic conditions between the treeline forms. Although gradual treelines form at lower elevations, they experience similar summer temperatures as the higher abrupt treelines. In contrast, temperatures in the shoulder season and during winter differed between sites of contrasting treeline forms. Soil scarcely froze and air temperature did not fall below 6C at the gradual treeline sites, whereas freezing soils and snow were more common (extreme air frosts down to 9C) at the abrupt treeline sites. Air and soil temperatures mirror the change in tree stature in the ecotone: with increasing altitude through the gradual treeline ecotone, temperature decreased gradually; whereas abrupt temperature changes were found at the abrupt treelinegrassland interface. These altitudinal patterns provide insights into potential mechanisms that drive treeline form and position, and their response to climatic change.
24052393|Mortality of New Zealand fur seal pups from birth until approximately 300 days was investigated on Taumaka, Open Bay Islands, Westland, New Zealand (43 52 S, 168 53 E) between December 1974 and August 1976. In both 1974-75 and 1975-76 there was an approximate mean mortality rate of 20 percent from birth to 50 days, and 40 percent from birth to 300 days. Starvation was the greatest cause of mortality, accounting for 70 percent of the deaths to 50 days. Other deaths were a consequence of stillbirths, suffocation, drowning, trampling and predation. First year mortality could have been as high as 50 percent of the total pup crop. Human disturbance killed pups indirectly by causing panic on the rookery. Tagging with monel metal cattle ear tags on the posterior edge of the foreflipper may have increased mortality.
24055316|Sympatric orange-fronted (Cyanoramphus malherbi) and yellow-crowned parakeets (C. auriceps) were surveyed in a South Island beech (Nothofagus spp.) forest during the spring and summer of 1998/99. Habitat use, behaviour and diet were recorded for each parakeet identified. A single observer did all recording. Both species were seen most frequently in the upper-most 20% of the forest stratum. Orange-fronted parakeets were seen more frequently than yellow-crowned parakeets in the lowest 20% of the forest stratum. Orange-fronted parakeets were seen calling less frequently and comforting more frequently than yellow-crowned parakeets, and this may reflect a difference in breeding period behaviour. Both species were usually seen feeding. In summer, both species were seen feeding mostly on seeds, predominantly from mountain beechbut this was a beech mast year. The spring diet of both species appeared to be largely flowers and invertebrates. Orange-fronted parakeets were seen feeding on flowers less frequently and on invertebrates more frequently than yellow-crowned parakeets. We suggest factors that may have contributed to the decline in abundance of both species: (1) greater competition between the two species in a habitat substantially modified by humans; (2) competition with introduced finch species; (3) competition with wasps for invertebrates; and (4) vulnerability to introduced predators. These last two factors are likely to affect orange-fronted parakeets in particular, because they appear to feed more on invertebrates and make greater use of the ground and low-growing plants.
24058130|Predation by introduced stoats is now considered a major threat to the population viability of several New Zealand endemic bird species. Historically stoat research and management has focused on beech forests and little is known about the ecology of stoats in the alpine grasslands occurring above the natural altitudinal limit of beech forest. Several stoat control operations in beech forest valley floors in southern New Zealand assume that adjacent montane areas act as a barrier to stoat immigration. Stoats were live-trapped and radio-tracked in alpine grasslands above the Borland Burn, Fiordland National Park, during the summer and autumn of 2003 and 2004. Seventeen stoats were radio-collared and home ranges were estimated for 11 of them. These home ranges were used in a compositional analysis which showed that these stoats spent significantly more time in alpine grassland than in adjacent beech forest. Range cores calculated for six of these stoats were located high up in alpine grassland and contained very little beech forest. This means that montane areas that contain alpine grasslands are unlikely to be barriers to stoat immigration; rather they may be a source of dispersing stoats that reinvade control areas. Also, endemic animal species that inhabit alpine grasslands could be at risk from stoat predation.
24054746|Eradication of rodent species from some offshore islands has proved to be an effective means of conserving native animal communities and restoring natural ecological processes on the islands. As methods of eradication differ for different rodent species, a truthful monitoring method to detect species presence and relative density is essential for a successful eradication programme. This study compared two spatial arrangements (line vs. grid), 5 different baits (chocolate, cheese, soap, wax, oiled wood) and 3 cover types (transparent plastic, wire netting, galvanised iron) on the detection of 2 species of rodents on Browns (Motukorea) Island in June and August. The two species of rodents present on the island were Norway rats (Rattus norvegicus) and mice (Mus musculus). Trapping using conventional trapping lines and trapping grids was carried out in June and August, respectively. The traps were set for 8 nights for both lines and grids. Trap lines caught 12.40 rats per 100 corrected trap-nights (100 ctn1) and no mice; trap grids caught 5.3 rats 100 ctn1 and 0.2 mice 100 ctn1. Trap grids appeared to be better than trap lines for detecting the presence/absence of rodent species when two species coexist and one appears subordinate to the other. On trap lines the trapping rate of rats was consistently high for five of the first six nights. On trap grids the trapping rate was variable on all nights with the first mice being caught on the third night. Three-night trapping sessions, conventionally used by most researchers, should be reliable for testing the relative densities of numerically dominant species but may not detect all rodent species present. Of five different bait types tested for monitoring rodent presence, the preferred order was chocolate, cheese, soap, wax and oiled wood. The efficiency of covers made of different materials, (galvanised iron, plastic, and wire netting) was also tested. Wire netting covers had the highest trapping rate and galvanised iron covers had the lowest. Three blackbirds (Turdus merula) were caught under wire netting covers, indicating a risk to non-target organisms.
24056361|A valley mire was sampled on the flanks of Swampy Hill, east Otago, New Zealand. It formed in a narrow valley, apparently originally comprising two basins. The end of the mire nearest the outlet contained species typical of fens (i.e., rheotrophic mires). At the head of the valley there was a section of the mire with mixed vegetation cover comprising the tussock grass Chionochloa rubra, Sphagnum species, and cushion/herb/shrub cover. Ombrotrophic status of this section was indicated by a slightly raised profile, greater acidity, lower exchangeable Na and K, and lower substrate cation exchange capacity, identifying it as a bog. Total Ca:Mg molar ratios were generally above 1.0, but this rule-of-thumb for ombrotrophic status may be inapplicable here. It is not known whether New Zealand Sphagnum species are as efficient at lowering the pH as those investigated elsewhere. Macrofosssil evidence indicates that some components of the bog, such as Sphagnum and epacridaceous subshrubs, have remained constant, almost since the inception of the bog. However, Empodisma minus, currently absent from the bog and rare in the region, was present at one stage. The change from cover with Empodisma and Dracophyllum as significant components, to the present Chionochloa/Sphagnum/cushion composition, occurred a few hundred years ago, probably initiated by fire. Comparison with preliminary information for other bogs suggests that those in the eastern part of the South Island vary considerably in species composition, with individualistic assemblages of species. The site is seen as having high conservation values. To protect these values the bog needs protection from invasive exotic weeds, and from damage by wild pigs.
24054674|Tree weta (Hemideina) are an important component of New Zealand forest ecosystems and have been identified as possible invertebrate indicator species in restoration programmes. We present designs for artificial weta roosts that have been used to monitor tree weta in Hawke's Bay for five years. A variety of invertebrates use the roosts including two species of Hemideina. Our data suggest that occupation of roosts may take a number of years, each roost monitors a very limited area, and that occupation by invertebrates fluctuates seasonally. We recommend that data from weta roosts be used primarily for temporal rather than spatial comparisons, and that installation of roosts takes place as far ahead of changes in management as feasible.
24054747|We evaluated willow removal as a technique for enhancing habitat for birds of braided rivers by monitoring five bird species at three sites in the Mackenzie Basin, New Zealand, from 1991 to 1994. Four species - banded dotterel (Charadrius bicinctus), pied stilt (Himantopus novaezelandiae), black-fronted tern (Sterna albostriata) and South Island pied oystercatcher (Haematopus ostralegus) used the areas of riverbed cleared of willows for nesting and foraging, at the same or greater density than other areas of riverbed already free from willows. Wrybills (Anarhynchus frontalis) were occasionally seen in cleared areas of riverbed but were not nesting there during the study. Densities of banded dotterel and wrybill were lowest at sites with the greatest densities of willows, and only three out of 327 monitored nests were located in willow habitat. Nest predation rates did not differ significantly among sites with differing levels of willow infestation, nor did they differ between areas of cleared riverbed and riverbed already free from willow. In addition to weed control, predator control may be necessary to increase bird populations. This study indicates that willow removal increases foraging and nesting habitat for some river bird populations, but further surveys are necessary to assess whether willow removal has any long-term benefits.
24066771|This paper is a reflection on J.B. Wilson's (1990) publication which presents an attempt to understand the development of terrestrial plant communities of New Zealand against twelve different explanations of Hutchinson's Paradox. I make a rough comparison between terrestrial and planktonic communities; then I briefly review Hutchinson's Paradox and some of the later relevant phytoplankton results. I summarize the relevance of the IDH in phytoplankton dynamics, assessing its strengths and weaknesses; and finally, try to project our conclusions to terrestrial plant communities; this concerns chiefly the need for appropriate spatial and temporal scaling.
24060807|Many restoration projects aim to increase populations of native fauna and flora, but benefits to the ecological interactions between species are unknown. The restoration of bird pollination services to Fuchsia excorticata (tree fuchsia) was examined at Maungatautari, in the Waikato Region, New Zealand. At Maungatautari, a pest-exclusion fence encloses 3400 ha of native forest, within which most mammalian pests were eradicated between 2004 and 2007. In December 2010, 140 five-minute bird counts at Maungatautari and a non-treatment site, Pirongia Forest Park, indicated that t (Prosthemadera novaeseelandiae) and bellbirds (Anthornis melanura), key pollinating species, were significantly more abundant at Maungatautari than Pirongia. We then examined whether greater bird numbers at Maungatautari translate into enhanced bird services. A previous study correlated visual pollen scores on F. excorticata flowers to fruit set, allowing rapid assessment of pollination levels. Pollination service to F. excorticata was significantly greater at Maungatautari, with good pollen loads on the stigmas of both female and hermaphrodite flowers there, compared with inadequate pollination on both sexes at Pirongia. Observations of bird visitors to F. excorticata flowers found significantly higher visitation rates at Maungatautari than Pirongia, consistent with the better pollination levels. Pollination levels of F. excorticata were compared with data from 68 sites from around New Zealand with a range of mammalian predator control levels. Sites that were pest-fenced, islands, or mainland islands (and assumed to have lower densities of mammalian pests) had good pollen scores on female plants, whereas at unmanaged sites females had inadequate pollination. This study indicates that higher abundance of pollinating birds as a result of mammalian pest control restores the pollination service to F. excorticata.
24056360|Several recent studies have used "roll calls"  searches for individually-marked birds  to assess impacts of aerial poison operations on non-target species. Roll calls have advantages over methods such as 5-minute bird counts, call counts, and dead body counts, but roll calls are based on the assumption that detection rates are 100%, or that detection rates are constant over time and space. They also require more than one group of birds, at a poisoned and unpoisoned site for example, for valid statistical comparisons. With minor adjustment of field methods, however, a series of surveys can be treated as a mark-recapture experiment, allowing powerful analysis without such restrictive assumptions. Survival and detection rates can be estimated independently for each time interval, and alternative models fitted to the data for factors affecting those rates. Using the software package MARK, we analyzed data for New Zealand robins (Petroica australis) on Tiritiri Matangi Island to estimate impact of an aerial brodifacoum operation conducted in September 1993 to eradicate kiore (Rattus exulans). The population was established by translocations in 1992 and 1993, and consisted of 40 birds at the time of the operation. Taking seasonal and yearly variation in detection and survival rates into account, we estimate that 11% of robins (4-5 birds) died as a result of the poison. There was strong evidence that survival probability was lower immediately after the operation, despite the small number of birds disappearing. The poison effect was confined to the interval from September-October 1993, including the first two weeks after the poison drop, and survival for subsequent monthly intervals was consistent with the normal summer rate. Using simulation modelling based on our data from the population, we predict that the operation set population growth back by about one year but had no longer-term impact.
24056339|Positive effects of fragmentation on plant reproduction are uncommon; in a literature review we found significant negative effects on fruit or seed set for 50 plant species, compared to 26 species showing no effect, and only nine affected positively. One of these is the declining New Zealand mistletoe Peraxilla tetrapetala (Loranthaceae), and here we investigate the mechanism of this positive effect. P. tetrapetala requires visits from native bird or bee pollinators to produce fruit. Fruit set was consistently pollen limited at several South Island sites because of a shortage of pollinators, but within a site at Lake Ohau, plants on forest edges had higher fruit set than those in the forest interior. Previous work showed that this difference was not caused by a shortage of resources in interior plants, but was associated with higher bird visitation rates to flowers on edges. In this study, we tested whether native bees also show a preference for edge flowers. At two sites (Ohau and Craigieburn) edge mistletoes had higher visitation by native bees (Hylaeus agilis and Leioproctus sp.) and higher fruit set. Some, but not all, of the higher visitation to edge flowers was explained by a preference amongst bees for flowers in direct sunshine. Therefore, P. tetrapetala experiences higher fruit set on edges because both of its main groups of pollinators (endemic birds and bees) visit edge flowers more often. The other eight published cases of positive effects of fragmentation on fruit set also all reported increased visitation rates by pollinators.
24060824|The continued coexistence of ecologically similar species relies on niche separation in space or time. Four similar species of introduced rodent occur in New Zealand, but the mechanism(s) allowing them to coexist in varying species combinations throughout the country is poorly understood. In order to investigate the coexistence of kiore or Pacific rats (Rattus exulans) and Norway rats (R. norvegicus) on Kapiti Island, rats were kill-trapped in exotic grassland and four forest types between 1992 and 1996. At each trap site, vegetation and microhabitat variables were measured and related to rat capture at that site with the aim of identifying and describing the preferred habitat of each species in the presence of the other. The demography and productivity of each species in each habitat was measured to determine the distribution and success of rats over the island. From 12 202 corrected trap nights, 923 rats were caught (391 Norway, 518 kiore, 14 unknown). Kiore were associated with low-growing vegetation in well-drained, flat areas whereas Norway rats were associated with taller vegetation, growing in steeper areas that were poorly drained. There was no significant inverse relationship between species capture rates. The number of kiore captured varied with year, season, and habitat. Kiore were most common in grassland and knuka (Kunzea ericoides) forest. However, kiore were larger and produced more offspring per female in kohekohe (Dysoxylum spectabile) forest. Norway rat capture also varied with year and habitat, but was unaffected by season. Norway rats, reached similar sizes, and produced similar numbers of offspring per female, in all habitats. The coexistence of rats on Kapiti Island appears to be due to the variety of habitats present combined with spatial partitioning of those habitats and the presence of some habitats in which kiore are, at least seasonally, very successful.
24060806|The New Zealand mountain flora is rich in fleshy-fruited species but many terrestrial frugivorous birds are extinct or declining, potentially putting seed dispersal mutualisms at risk. To determine whether fruits are currently being removed by animals, we measured removal rates of eight fleshy-fruited mountain plant species from five families over two fruiting seasons, at two sites in inland Canterbury. We compared fruit removal rates within cages (no animal access to fruits), on unmanipulated plants (open-access to fruits by all animals), and within lizard-only cages (large mesh). For the eight species, unmanipulated fruit removal rates were generally high, with overall percent fruit removal by the end of autumn ranging from 67% to 99% (mean 81%) in open-access treatments. Effects of cage treatments were significant for seven of the eight species, with 5875% removal (mean 62%) in lizard-only treatments and 2379% (mean 40%) in animal-exclusion cages. The largest difference in fruit removal between open-access and cage treatments was for the montane shrub Aristotelia fruticosa (98% vs 5% respectively) and the smallest was for Coprosma petriei (81% vs 65%, cage treatment effect non-significant). On average, fruit removal inside lizard-access cages was just over half of that on open-access plants, suggesting that lizards can move many fruits. Delays in fruit removal are unimportant provided that most fruits are removed before they rot, and levels of final fruit removal seen in this study provide no evidence for large-scale dispersal failure despite changes to the disperser fauna.
24060632|Spore consumption and aspects of the life history of Zearagytodes maculifer (Coleoptera: Leiodidae) were studied on the bracket fungi Ganoderma cf. applanatum and G. australe in the Waitakere Ranges, New Zealand. Eggs, the four larval instars and their duration are described. The 25-day development time found (egg to adult) is short compared with other mycophagous beetles inhabiting bracket fungi. Numbers of larvae and adult beetles found on hosts were only weakly associated with season, and both larvae and adults were active in winter. Rate of spore consumption did not depend on larval instar, or which fungal species was host. However, fewer larvae and adult beetles were found per sporocarp on G. australe, whose ingested spores appeared to be less easily broken. The impact of Z. maculifer on host fitness appeared to be neutral as larvae consumed a very small proportion of discharged spores.
24056330|Silvereyes, Zosterops lateralis Latham, commonly feed on kiwifruit rejected for export and either stored in open bins at packhouses or in piles ready to be fed to livestock, and may play a role in the spread of wild kiwifruit in native and exotic forest in the Bay of Plenty, New Zealand. We determined the germination rate and percentage germination of Actinidia chinensis Planch. seed sown (1) after gut passage through silvereyes, (ingested seed), (2) after a standard laboratory fruit pulp removal method (enzyme-extracted seed), (3) as entire fruit and (4) as fruit sections. Ingested and enzyme-extracted seed sown in trays in a glasshouse had nearly identical percentage germination (63.7% and 64.7% respectively) after 71 days. No seed germinated from intact fruit or fruit slices during the experiment. Gut-passage accelerated the germination rate compared with enzyme-extracted seed. This study supports the view that Z. lateralis is involved in dispersing kiwifruit seed into native and exotic forest.
24052006|The absence of introduced browsing animals from Bench Island, located 5 km east of Stewart Island, provides the opportunity to compare forest structure and regeneration in these two areas of similar vegetation with and without browsing animals. The population structures of the main canopy tree species, rata (Metrosideros umbellata), kamahi (Weinmannia racemosa), and rimu (Dacrydium cupressinum), are similar in the areas compared. However, on Stewart Island, browsing animals, mainly white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) and the Australian brush-tailed possum (Trichosurus vulpecula), have drastically reduced the abundance of subcanopy trees and shrubs such as Pseudopanax simplex, P. crassifolius, Fucshia excorticata, Myrsine australis, Schefflera digitata, Coprosma lucida and C. foetidissima; ferns such as Phymatosorus diversifolius, Asplenium bulbiferum and herbs like Kirkophytum lyallii have likewise been reduced. The regeneration of the tree fern Dicksonia squarrosa is also severely impeded by browsing, and the generally sparse character of the understorey vegetation on Stewart Island contrasts sharply with the nearly continuous cover on Bench Island. On Stewart Island, the more open main tree canopy and greatly reduced abundance of plants in the 15-140 cm tier results in greater species frequencies in the 0-15 cm tier, but browsing pressure impedes their further development. Introduced browsing animals have already significantly altered the structure and floristic composition of the rata-kamahi-rimu forests on Stewart Island and their effects are likely to be more severe in the future unless animal numbers are reduced.
24060697|The presence of feral cats (Felis catus) in the braided river valleys of New Zealand poses a threat to native species such as the critically endangered black stilt (Himantopus novaezelandiae). Trapping remains the most common method to control introduced predators, but trap placement criteria have not been fully informed by advances in the understanding of the spatial ecology of the pest species. We assessed the suitability of Global Positioning System (GPS) tags to study the spatial behaviour of feral cats in New Zealand braided rivers. We tagged and tracked five individual adults, one female and four males. Tracking periods varied from 3 to 18 days at a fix rate of one location every 15 min. This rate was considered an adequate trade-off between battery limitations and the opportunity to approximate the continuous displacement path of a cat for a representative number of days. Individual home range size estimates (100% Minimum Convex Polygon, MCP) varied from 178 to 2486 ha. For four of the six cats incremental analysis revealed that at least 460 locations are required to calculate a home range using MCP. Habitat selection analysis showed significant differences among individuals tending to select 'Mature riverbed' habitats. Trapping effort should be focused on this habitat. Movements and distances travelled revealed that cats move mainly between mid-afternoon (1500 hours) and early morning (0300 hours). This study showed that GPS telemetry provides a powerful method to study feral cat movements in open landscapes in New Zealand.
24053254|Polynesian settlement of New Zealand (c. 1000 yr B.P.) led directly to the extinction or reduction of much of the vertebrate fauna, destruction of half of the lowland and montane forests, and widespread soil erosion. The climate and natural vegetation changed over the same time but had negligible effects on the fauna compared with the impact of settlement. The most severe modification occurred between 750 and 500 years ago, when a rapidly increasing human population, over-exploited animal populations and used fire to clear the land. Human predation, and destruction of forest habitat eliminated the moa and other large ground birds. Moa appear to have been more abundant in drier conifer-broadleaved forest on fertile lowland sites, than in wetter areas and in cool upland forests. Most forests remaining today are wet mountainland communities, and may never have experienced severe browsing pressure until Europeans introduced browsing mammals. The moderate amount of browsing pressure exerted in them by moa may have been insufficient for the plants to develop browsing adaptations capable of coping with the impact of mammals. Knowledge of these climatic, physical and cultural forces which shaped the biota of present day New Zealand are important for understanding how to manage the remaining estate.
24055341|Honeydew excreted by phloem-sap sucking scale insects (Ultracoelostoma sp.) living in the bark of beech (Nothofagus solandri) trees growing at a high elevation (900 m) site in the Craigieburn range of Canterbury, New Zealand, was measured over four days during 110 May 1996. Average standing crop of honeydew sugar was 3.1 mg m2, and ranged from 0.4 to 5.5 mg m2. Daily production of honeydew sugar ranged from 0.2 to 1.5 mg insect1 24 h1, and 4.1 to 45.9 mg m2 24 h1. Honeydew production varied significantly between trees, and trees with the highest mean individual rates of production (mg sugar insect1 24 h1) tended to be those with the highest numbers of insects per unit bark area. Air temperature averaged over the 24 hours preceding each production sample explained 65% of the variability in 3-hourly honeydew production, showing that honeydew production is controlled by environmental and host-tree variables. Using this data, together with previously published estimates of carbon uptake and seasonal variability in honeydew standing crop, it was estimated that carbon contained in honeydew is equivalent to 1.8% of net primary production of beech trees at Craigieburn. Determining the effects of environmental variables on tree and insect physiology will allow formulation of an environmentally-driven process-based model of honeydew production.
24060612|Surveys were undertaken at Campbell Island/Motu Ihupuku during January and February 2008, to determine the distribution and pup production of New Zealand sea lions (NZ sea lion; Phocarctos hookeri). In addition, necropsies were performed at the main breeding site of Davis Point to determine the principal causes of early mortality for NZ sea lion pups. In total, 397 pups were tagged and 186 untagged pups were found dead, giving a minimum pup production of 583 pups and a one month of age mortality estimate of 40%. This represents a higher pup production than previous estimates from Campbell Island (although survey techniques are not comparable), and equates to 21% of the total pup production for NZ sea lions in the 2007/08 season. Early pup mortality was high (40%) at Campbell Island, with trauma, starvation, and drowning in rock pools and peat mires the major causes of death. Pups were concentrated in two colonial breeding sites: Davis Point on the north shore of Perseverance Harbour (76%) and a newly recorded breeding site (Paradise Point) on the southern shore of Perseverance Harbour (21%). Non-colonial breeding or single pups occurred around the southern parts of the island from sea level to 400 m; however, these only contributed 3% of the known pup production.
24060795|Fire is a complex physical and ecological process and one that has dramatically affected New Zealand's landscapes and ecosystems in the post-settlement era. Prior to human settlement in the late 13th century, the Holocene palaeoenvironmental record suggests that fire frequencies were low across most of New Zealand, with the notable exception of some wetland systems. Because few of New Zealand's indigenous plant species show any real adaptation to fire, the greatly increased fire activity that accompanied human settlement resulted in widespread, and in some cases permanent, shifts in the composition, structure and function of many terrestrial ecosystems. The combined effects of Maori and European fire have left long-lasting legacies in New Zealand's landscapes with the most obvious being the reduction of forest cover from 8590% to 25% of the land area. Here we review the long-term ecological history of fire in New Zealand's terrestrial ecosystems and describe what is known about the fire ecology of New Zealand's plant species and communities, highlighting key uncertainties and areas where future research is required. While considerable emphasis has been placed on describing and understanding the 'initial burning period' that accompanied Maori arrival, much less ecological emphasis has been placed on the shifts in fire regime that occurred during the European period, despite the significant effects these had. Post-fire successional trajectories have been described for a number of wetland and forest communities in New Zealand, but in contemporary landscapes are complicated by the effects of exotic mammalian species that act as seed and seedling predators and herbivores, reduced pollination and dispersal services due to declines in the avifauna, and the presence of pyrophyllic exotic plant species. Many invasive plant species (e.g. Pinus spp., Acacia spp., Hakea spp., Ulex europaeus) are favoured by fire and now co-occur with indigenous plant species in communities whose long-term composition and trajectory are unclear. On the other hand, some highly-valued ecosystems such as tussock grasslands may require recurrent fire for their long-term persistence. Combined, the direct and indirect effects of the introduction of anthropic fire to New Zealand may have shifted large areas into successional 'traps' from which, in the face of recurrent fire, escape is difficult. Developing appropriate management strategies in such a context requires a nuanced understanding of the place of fire in New Zealand's ecosystems.
24058217|Population densities of the endemic red admiral butterfly, Bassaris gonerilla, were monitored over two summers on Banks Peninsula, New Zealand. Egg-laying usually begins in September and ends in late May. Peaks in egg, larval and adult densities suggest that B. gonerilla completes two full generations per season and in favourable years, a third generation is started but not completed. Population density was lower in a low-rainfall season probably because of the lower survival and nutritional quality of the host plant, Urtica ferox. "Non-target" parasitism levels by Pteromalus puparum (introduced to manage populations of the small white butterfly Pieris rapae) were low at 3.516.9% of pupae collected from the field. However, parasitism by the self-introduced pupal parasitoid Echthromorpha intricatoria was very high at 67.582.3%. Echthromorpha intricatoria can overwinter in B. gonerilla pupae and is thus capable of attacking all generations of B. gonerilla. More long-term data are needed to determine the status of, and regulatory mechanisms affecting B. gonerilla populations.
24060839|Two conservation tools have been developed over the last 1015 years for species on the New Zealand mainland that are vulnerable to introduced mammalian predators: landscape-scale predator trapping networks, and eradication of predators within mammal-proof exclosures. We tested whether these tools would allow population growth of critically endangered grand skinks (Oligosoma grande) and Otago skinks (O. otagense) over three years. Skink populations were subjected to one of three predator treatments: (1) near-eradication inside a mammal-proof fence; (2) suppression by trapping within a 2100-ha area; and (3) unmanaged predator populations. Monitoring by non-invasive photoresight methods, and data analysis using program MARK, showed that the greatest increase in abundance of both species occurred at the centre of the predator trapping treatment and inside a mammal-proof fence. For grand skinks, there was little or no change in population size at the trapping periphery. At the unmanaged sites, the grand skink population underwent a catastrophic decline whereas the Otago skink population was stable. A grouping analysis showed that the unmanaged grand skink treatment was clearly distinguished from the other predator treatments based on survival rate. Results suggest that: (1) predation by introduced mammals is a key driver in the decline of these skinks, and episodic predation events may be a component of this process; and (2) use of mammal-proof fences or intensive predator control over a large enough area should allow skink populations to recover.
24056323|Habitat use of the endangered chevron skink (Oligosoma homalonotum) was investigated between 1997 and 2002 at three sites on Great Barrier Island, New Zealand. Habitat preferences were determined by pitfall trapping and radio-tracking studies, and a comparison of catchments with and without chevron skinks. Over the course of the research, 88 skinks were encountered. Significantly more skinks were caught in pitfall traps set in stream habitat than in alluvial terrace, boulder bank or ridge habitat. Eight chevron skinks were radio-tracked for periods between three and eight days, and 118 fixes were taken from 55 different retreat sites. When compared with randomly selected sites, chevron skinks were more likely to be found at sites that had crevices, debris dams and trees than those that did not. The further a site was away from the stream edge, the less likely it was to be a chevron skink retreat site. Chevron skinks were more likely to be found in catchments with narrow streams with rocky, as opposed to silty, substrates. We recommend that future management of chevron skinks incorporate sites that contain mature forest and rocky streams. While forest habitats on Great Barrier Island appear to be increasing in area, chevron skinks may still be declining due to the effects of introduced predators.
24053730|Biological and physical disturbance has had a severe impact on New Zealand's endemic flora and fauna. Along with the lessons of the past, predicting the sensitivity of communities to disturbance in the future may help direct more attention to those communities with a greater need for preservation (i.e., a lower ability to recover from any such disturbances). In theory it is possible to measure the resilience (or local stability) of a community by constructing a matrix to describe that community and then examining its eigenvalues. Local stability characteristics of invertebrate communities in 11 aquatic habitats were examined with respect to differing levels of habitat disturbance. It was predicted that communities in more unstable habitats would be more resilient in order to persist despite more frequent disturbances. All communities had eigenvalues outside the stability criteria, although those in the unstable habitats did have eigenvalues closer to these criteria. The open and/or patchy nature of stream communities may explain why local stability is not a prerequisite for these communities, however examining the local stability of community matrices still remains a potentially useful tool for predicting the effects of physical and biological disturbances.
24052825|Study of the cooperative breeding of southern great skuas (Stercorarius skua lonnbergi) on the Chatham Islands has identified differences in food availability among territories. Skuas here feed substantially on breeding petrels. Transmitters were placed on 10 birds of pairs and cooperatively breeding groups to monitor their movements on dark nights. Birds on territories containing petrel burrows remained within the territory, and fed on petrels caught on the ground. The territory of one pair on a rocky point lacked breeding petrels. The male was tracked at night away from the territory to an inland site. No birds left the island at night or followed flying petrels. No differences were found in the nocturnal behaviour of the individual birds of cooperative groups. The evidence obtained that skuas may feed both within and outside territories has implications for theories of territoriality and cooperative breeding based on resource defence.
24054687|We monitored the behaviour of 62 radio-collared ferrets and 25 radio-collared cats in dry, tussock grassland habitat in New Zealand's South Island. The total home range of adult male ferrets (102  58 ha, mean  1 s.d.) was marginally greater than that of females (76  48 ha), and averaged 90  55 ha. Male ferret core ranges (27  15 ha) were larger than those of females (16  8 ha). Adult cat home ranges were similar between sexes, and were larger and more variable than those of ferrets (225  209 ha). Core range size of cats was similar between sexes and averaged 54  24 ha. The upper 95% confidence limits of the mean home range lengths of adult ferrets and cats were 2.7 km and 5.1 km, respectively, indicating the width of buffer zones where predator control should be extended to protect the boundaries of areas targeted for predator control in dry, tussock grasslands. Although core areas were mostly discrete, home ranges were distributed randomly, and animals that shared space neither avoided nor attracted each other. Little evidence of territoriality may be related to high densities of primary prey. Too few cats were monitored to determine territoriality. Ferrets used at least 9.4  3.2 dens, and cats used 11.5  3.0 dens during the study. Although 71% of dens were used only once, some were used up to nine times. Day time resting by ferrets was mostly solitary. If transmission of bovine Tb occurs between adult ferrets, simultaneous sharing of dens during the day is unlikely to be a significant mode of transmission in this habitat. We were unable to determine the extent of den sharing by cats. Cats occupied den sites with more shrubs and rocks compared with ferrets. Predator control stations in dry tussock grassland habitat may therefore be more effective at killing cats than ferrets if placed in shrubby, rocky areas.
24056284|Lesser short-tailed bats (Mystacina tuberculata) feed on arthropod taxa known to consume 1080 baits. Thus, they may be vulnerable to secondary poisoning after control operations for brushtail possum (Trichosurus vulpecula) using aerially broadcast 1080 baits. Short-tailed bat mortality was monitored during 11 days after 1080 baits were broadcast over their winter foraging area. Monitoring involved catching a sample of 269 bats as they arrived at a roost after foraging, then holding them in captivity for 48 hours. None of the captured bats displayed any symptoms of 1080 poisoning. Power analysis indicates that there was a  0.95 probability of detecting mortality when the actual mortality rate was above 11.1 deaths per thousand foraging flights. Uncertainties in assumptions about the bats' behaviour mean that the overall population mortality corresponding to this minimum detectable mortality rate may range from 5.4 to 28.4%, with a best estimate of 14.4%. Although it can be concluded that this 1080 operation probably did not cause major mortality of short-tailed bats, several replicate trials are required before a generalised conclusion can be drawn about the fate of short-tailed bats following aerial 1080 operations. More information about short-tailed bat population demography is required to assess the impact of 1080 operations on population viability.
24052390|The effects of organochlorines on raptors are reviewed. Pectoral muscle samples from 13 New Zealand falcons, 3 Australasian harriers, 7 little owls, 7 moreporks, 1 long-tailed cuckoo and 1 New Zealand pigeon were analysed for organochlorine pesticide and polychlorinated biphenyls. Five juvenile falcons contained a mean level of 2.6 mg total DDT/kg wet weight in their muscle, six adult falcons had an equivalent value of 11.7 mg/kg. Total DDT levels in harrier muscles ranged from 2.0-64.9 mg/kg. Levels in other species examined were probably too low to have detectable biological effects. Changes in New Zealand falcon eggshell thickness since 1948 were measured. There was no correlation between eggshell thinning and residue levels in two eggs and two young chicks. The shell-thinning of 0-13.3% found probably had little effect on breeding success as the most affected pairs were at the margins of the falcon's range.
24054742|Polistine and vespine wasps were captured in Malaise traps in two fire-modified shrubland habitats of varying canopy height and composition at Lake Ohia, Northland, New Zealand. Prey consumption rates were calculated for the Asian paper wasp (Polistes chinensis antennalis) occupying these two areas of shrubland and a home garden in Whangarei, Northland. The sites were systematically searched for nests and wasp prey determined by intercepting foragers returning to nests. The Asian paper wasp predominated in the Malaise trap samples from the low-growing habitat while the German wasp (Vespula germanica) was more common in the taller vegetation type. The Asian paper wasp was more abundant than the German wasp in the samples in February and early March. Only four Australian paper wasps (Polistes humilis) and no common wasps (Vespula vulgaris) were caught. Asian paper wasps collected an estimated 15 000 prey loads per ha per season from one of the shrubland areas, and 478 000 prey loads per ha per season from the second area. These convert to estimates of 31 and 957 g per ha per season of invertebrate biomass removed by paper wasps from each habitat, respectively. The estimate for the garden site was 79 g per ha per season. Wasp nest densities varied between 20 and 210 nests per hectare. The biomass estimates are similar to average figures calculated for vespine wasps in scrubland and pasture. Both Asian paper wasps and Australian paper wasps preyed mainly on lepidopteran larvae. The cabbage white butterfly (Pieris rapae) was the most commonly collected species. Noctuid species were also well represented. Both male and female Asian paper wasps collected nectar in late March and early April.
24060845|Natural regeneration of new forests has significant potential to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions, but how strong is the potential biodiversity co-benefit? We quantified carbon accumulation and biodiversity gain during secondary succession of two New Zealand lowland forests. The rate of carbon sequestration was the same for the kanukared beech succession as for the coastal broadleaved succession (c. 2.3 Mg C ha1 year1) over the first 50 years of succession. Mean above-ground carbon stocks were 148  13 Mg C ha1 for kanukared beech forests and 145  19 Mg C ha1 for tall coastal broadleaved forests after at least 50 years of succession. Biodiversity gain was investigated through the quantification of 'ecological integrity', which comprises dominance by indigenous species, occupancy of indigenous species or a group of species fulfilling a particular ecological role, and gain in representation of lowland forests within each ecological region. All components of ecological integrity increased with carbon accumulation for both successions. In addition, above-ground carbon stocks were correlated with the Shannon and Simpson diversity indices and species richness for both successions, suggesting that conventional metrics of diversity also show biodiversity gain with above-ground carbon during succession of recently non-forested lands to secondary forest.
24054548|Introduced common wasps (Vespula vulgaris) are widespread, abundant pests in New Zealand. They compete for food with native birds and feed on native invertebrates. We poisoned wasps annually over 4 years to see if it was possible to reduce their abundance in two 30-ha beech forest sites. Two different poisons (sodium monofluoroacetate and sulfluramid) were used, mixed with sardine catfood. There was no evidence that one poison was more effective than the other. Between 82 and 100% of the colonies were killed in the poisoned sites, but reinvasion by foraging workers meant that cumulative wasp biomass (measured using Malaise traps) was reduced by only 55 - 70%. Individual wasps were about 16% heavier in the poisoned sites at the peak of the wasp season (March) than in the non-poisoned sites, although this had a minimal effect on cumulative biomass over the entire season. Conservation gains need to be quantified in order to assess whether the expense of such poisoning operations is warranted.
24052725|Provenance variation was studied in the growth and morphology of seedlings of silver beech (Nothofagus menziesii), red beech (N. fusca), hard beech (N. truncata), black beech (N. solandri var. solandri), and mountain beech (N. solandri var. cliffortioides). Seedlings were grown for 2 years in replicated provenance experiments at Rangiora and Rotorua. Silver beech was shown to be a genetically variable species, with strong differentiation into regional ecotypes and possibly altitudinal clines. North Island provenances from lower altitudes grew the fastest and had the biggest leaves. Exceptionally small leaves, which turned a claret red in winter, were a feature of two low-elevation provenances from Westland. Red beech seemed a comparatively uniform species, with only minor genetic variation apparent in the growth rate and appearance of seedlings from a comprehensive range of provenances. Hybridism with N. solandri was prevalent in several seedlots. Hard beech was poorly represented in the study. At Rotorua, the local Mamaku Plateau provenance was the most vigorous, but was the slowest-growing at Rangiora. In the black beech - mountain beech complex there was considerable provenance variation in the size, shape, colour, and arrangement of leaves, as well as in the branching habit and growth rate of seedlings. Clinal genetic variation in seedling growth rate was demonstrated in a series of altitudinal provenances of mountain beech from the Craigieburn Range, Canterbury. Seedlings of black beech grew faster than those of mountain beech, had a characteristic interlacing habit, with distant, orbicular leaves, and were partially deciduous in winter. A third form of N. solandri was recognised, with seedlings in many ways intermediate between those of mountain beech and black beech. These undifferentiated populations of N. solandri occur on well-drained, low-altitude sites in the South Island. The seedlings are of erect habit, have relatively large leaves, and are among the fastest-growing of all the New Zealand beeches.
24060851|Scofield et al. (2011) recently questioned the goals and current achievements of New Zealand pest-fenced sanctuaries. Here we dispute some of their evidence, describe the conservation context and achievements of fenced sanctuaries, and show that pest-fenced projects have distinctive and important roles among the diverse approaches addressing biodiversity restoration in New Zealand. This arises primarily from their ability to achieve zero or near-zero residual abundance of nearly all mammal pests in mainland environments, and to capture public interest and involvement with exceptional advocacy and education opportunities that should benefit all conservation. The key sustainability challenge confronting fenced sanctuaries is little different from that facing other conservation initiatives, namely reducing threats over the long-term to enable indigenous species and ecosystem persistence. We concur with Scofield et al. (2011) that fenced sanctuaries need time and further research to evaluate costs and benefits compared with other approaches.
24052750|A modified plant diameter measurement protocol is suggested for demographic analysis. The conventional diameter at breast height (1.35m) is used for stems  2.6m tall whereas those  2.6m tall are measured at half their height. The diameter equivalent to the combined cross sections of all the stems is used as the measure of size.
24052726|Honeydew is produced by a scale insect (Ultracoelostoma assimile, Margarodidae) in some Nothofagus forests of South Island, New Zealand. The quantity of honeydew present and its sugar concentration varies through the year. Honeydew is a valuable resource for bellbirds (Anthornis melanura), tuis (Prosthemadera novaesealandiae) and silvereyes (Zosterops lateralis). Bellbirds and tuis were commoner in forests with more honeydew. Bellbirds spent more time feeding on honeydew when its sugar concentration was low.
24054774|The presence of brodifacoum residues in possum (Trichosurus vulpecula) livers following routine possum control was investigated. Possums were poisoned in six nature reserves in the Wellington Region, New Zealand, using cereal baits containing 20 mg kg1 brodifacoum dispensed from bait stations. Thirty-five surviving possums, and five dead possums were sampled from the reserves following poisoning, and their livers analysed for the presence of brodifacoum. The majority (83%) of samples contained brodifacoum at concentrations ranging from 0.007 mg kg1 to 6.2 mg kg1. The presence of significant quantities of brodifacoum in possum carcasses following poisoning operations creates potential for secondary and tertiary poisoning of non-target species.
24052770|Sheep introduced to Campbell Island in 1895 for farming reached numbers of over 8000 in 1916 then declined to 1000 by 1961 (exponential growth rate r = 0.05 p.a.). Numbers increased to around 3000 from 1961 to 1969 (r = 0.14 p.a.). The island was divided into halves by a fence in 1970, and all sheep north of it were killed. The southern population continued to grow from 1970 to 1984 (r = 0.053 p.a.). The southern half of the island was cleared of sheep in 1984 except for about 800 fenced off on a peninsula. Censuses in 1961 and 1969, and the sample shot in 1970, showed that population growth rate, lambing rate, sex ratio, and time of breeding varied in different places on the island, and from year to year. The average number of lambs present per 100 females ranged from 30 to 40 in the farming years up to 1931, and from 60 to 80 by 1970. The age structure in 1970 was consistent with a stable age-distribution in an expanding population. During the farming years the southern hemisphere was in a cold climatic phase. From the mid 1930s there was a general warming, especially during the 1950s. These better conditions, together with falling grazing pressure and absence of burning, allowed an increase in the island's woody and herbaceous vegetation. The sheep developed traits for self shedding of the unshorn fleece and for breeding at one year old. These changes are discussed in relation to the decline and subsequent increase of the population.
24052776|A timberline stand of Libocedrus bidwillii subalpine low forest at Pegleg Flat, Arthur's Pass, was partly destroyed by fire in the late 19th century. Patches of surviving low forest contain very few Libocedrus seedlings and lack young trees of 5-15 cm d.b.h. Only 14 large seedlings and saplings were located in the post-fire sere in the formerly burnt areas. The small numbers of seedlings on both undisturbed and disturbed sites have not replaced the trees which were burnt or died of natural causes and Libocedrus is now absent from certain, climatically unfavourable locations.
24052673|In four populations of possums more than 94% of animals accepted each of the three types of dye-marked, non-toxic bait. In a fifth trial, conducted in summer, only 68% of the population accepted bait. This poor level of acceptance was attributed to the abundance of natural food available, as indicated by the good condition of the animals. In a trial with toxic bait approximately 25% refused either to eat a lethal quantity of toxic bait or to eat any toxic bait at all, compared with 98% acceptance in the non-toxic control trial. Reasons for possums surviving poison operations include: sub-lethal poisoning as a result of encountering and eating sub-lethal baits, or by sampling baits followed by aversion to the taste of the poison; olfactory aversion to toxic bait; inadequate distribution of baits; and infrequent visits by possums to the forest floor. The high acceptance rate of non-toxic bait types eliminates bait refusal as a major reason for operational failures, especially in winter.
24056199|We recorded trap site characteristics and captures during a trapping programme designed to protect breeding and released black stilts (kaki, Himantopus novaezelandiae) from predation, in order to learn about trap site features that might improve the efficacy of future predator trapping management. Captures were made at 1629 leg-hold traps opened over 71 333 trap nights between 1998 and 2000, at six locations in the Upper Waitaki Basin, New Zealand. Twelve trap site variables were recorded. The model describing the best combination of variables for four groups of predators (cats Felis catus, mustelids Mustela furo (ferrets) and M. erminea (stoats), harriers Circus approximans and hedgehogs Erinaceus europaeus) was found using logistic regression and AIC values. For all predator groups both the way the trap was set and its placement within the landscape (with respect to habitat type and the distribution of landscape features that might be important to predators) influenced capture rates. Mustelids and harriers were more likely to be caught on stable riverbed habitats where rabbit densities are highest, while hedgehogs were mainly caught on river terraces and cats were equally likely to be caught anywhere. Individual trap characteristics in terms of set type, trap haze, trap backing, plate haze, visibility of bait, substrate and ground cover, associated with higher catch rates for each predator group are described.
24052681|Pukepuke Lagoon is one of a series of shallow dune-lakes in the Manawatu district of New Zealand. Its open water area has been reduced by about 90% during the last century by sand drift from adjacent dunes, man-made changes to the local drainage, and the spread of macrophytes, especially Typha. Superimposed upon these changes are others due to the influx of exotic plants and animals. The vegetation of the macrophyte swamp is described in terms of the supposed sequence of hydroseral development. A reciprocal average ordination is used to describe the extensive Typha stands. The first axis of the stand ordination correlates with water depth, pH and the depth of the underlying organic matter. The second axis probably reflects stand disturbance. A species list is presented.
24060703|The contribution of exotic plantation forests to the conservation of New Zealand's flora and fauna is a somewhat controversial issue, partly because the establishment of some plantations involved the conversion of indigenous vegetation. Such conversion no longer occurs within the professional forest industry and there is a growing appreciation of the contribution of 'production' land, including plantation forests, to the protection of New Zealand's unique indigenous biodiversity. This paper provides a comprehensive synthesis of information currently available on threatened species known to occur in New Zealand's plantation forests. Based on an evaluation of the published literature, unpublished reports, national threatened species databases, and personal observations we have compiled records of 118 species classified by the Department of Conservation as threatened that occur in plantations. Of these species, 16 are classified as 'Nationally Critical', 17 'Nationally Endangered' and 17 'Nationally Vulnerable', while the majority are classified as either in 'Gradual Decline', 'Sparse' or 'Range Restricted'. We highlight the direct and indirect benefits of plantations to various threatened taxa and draw attention to the missed conservation opportunities that are generated by a lack of understanding and the somewhat 'puritanical' views of New Zealand's mainstream conservation paradigm. We also discuss some of the potential negative consequences of plantations such as their potential function as 'population sinks' and 'ecological traps'. We conclude with a discussion of future research opportunities that aim to improve the conservation value of plantation forests.
24052670|Previous studies have shown fruits of native plants to be an important part of the diet of the possum (Trichosurus vulpecula Kerr) in the broadleaf-podocarp forest of Orongorongo Valley, New Zealand. Fruits from six species of native plants, abundant in the valley in late summer and autumn, 1979, were analysed physically and chemically and compared with the leaf-only portion of the possum diet. These fruits were generally moist, rich in available carbohydrate and low in fibre and appeared to be a source of readily digestible energy. The fruits and dietary leaves were generally similar in levels of crude protein, lipid and ash, with the exception of pigeonwood fruit which was very high in lipid. Some physical characteristics of some fruits seemed to detract from their value as food for possums. It is hypothesised that inclusion of fruit in the natural diet permits greater rates of intake of digestible nutrients than is possible by consumption of leaves alone. The high status of hinau (Elaeocarpus dentatus) fruit as a source of available energy supports the conclusion of a demographic study (Bell, 1981) that its abundance in autumn enhances the success of winter reproduction of possums in Orongorongo Valley.
24056164|The KeanBarlow model predicts how the equilibrium distribution and abundance of a population may be affected by local rates of increase, dispersal, colonisation, and extinction. Here, the model is parameterised for three insects: the Glanville fritillary Melitaea cinxia in land, Finland, the ribbonwood aphid Paradoxaphis plagianthi in Christchurch, New Zealand, and the coxella weevil Hadramphus spinipennis in the Chatham Islands, New Zealand. The model was modified for the weevil to accommodate its unusual habit of overexploiting local resources. For the butterfly and the weevil, parameters estimated from the literature suggest high patch occupancy with low to moderate relative local population sizes. For the aphid, the model suggested low distribution and abundance. These predictions appear to match field observations, at least qualitatively, suggesting that the model captures sufficient biological detail to be a valid tool for exploring the relative effects of population-level processes on rarity and commonness.
24060652|Winter is a challenging time for temperate insectivorous songbirds, due to colder temperatures, reduced prey activity and shorter diurnal foraging times. For species that are non-migratory, territorial and monogamous, winter conditions may result in within-pair competition. However, little is known about how monogamous pairs coexist on their winter territories. We investigated temporal patterns in malefemale interactions of the New Zealand robin (Petroica australis) to better understand mechanisms of coexistence during winter. Previous work has shown that male robins are physically dominant over females and maintain priority access to food year-round. We quantified female behaviour throughout the 2008 non-breeding season to better understand how females coexist with physically dominant males on winter territories. Results showed that pairs rarely forage in close proximity in autumn and winter, suggesting females avoid males at this time of year. Males and females begin to spend more time foraging together as winter turns to spring. During this winterspring transitional period, females steal large amounts of food hoarded by males. These results indicate that male and female New Zealand robins use different behavioural mechanisms to coexist on their winter territories. While males are dominant physically, females show a seasonally variable strategy where they avoid males in autumn and winter, and then steal male-made caches from early spring until the onset of inter-pair cooperation and the breeding season.
24058147|The effectiveness of line- and point-transect distance sampling methods was compared for estimating the density of a conspicuous endemic passerine, the North Island saddleback Philesturnus carunculatus rufusater, in two forest habitats on Tiritiri Matangi Island, Hauraki Gulf, New Zealand. The reference population abundance in each habitat was calculated through an intensive capture, colour-banding, and resighting effort. Line transects consistently produced unbiased estimates of density for both sites at two time periods (morning and afternoon), and proved to be the most efficient of the distance sampling methods tested. Point-transect methods proved to be biased in this instance, consistently producing overestimates of density for this species, and were unreliable as indices of the small differences in density between habitats. Transect counts conducted from established walking tracks underestimated both density and the variance of estimated density. We conclude that in situations requiring estimates of absolute density for North Island saddleback, a series of randomly positioned line transects will accurately represent the density of individuals. Furthermore, this study highlights the need to pilot distance survey techniques on the species of interest to detect possible violation of the assumptions underlying these methods. We question the widespread use of point-transect counts for censusing avian species without such preliminary investigation, and recommend further comparisons of distance sampling methods in New Zealand with reference populations where opportunity provides.
24054521|Exotic pine plantations constitute a significant landscape feature in the North Island of New Zealand but their conservation value for native plant species is not often documented. Pine stem density, height and basal area of nine plantations of Pinus radiata ranging in age from 6 to 67 years in Kinleith Forest was determined. Pines reached heights of 60m, and stand basal areas up to 183  14 m2ha1. The abundance of woody shrubs, tree ferns and ground ferns was assessed in each stand. Understorey composition of shrubs and ferns was reflected on the first two axes of DCA ordinations and correlated with the age of the pines. Adventive shrubs predominated in stands < 20 years old. Light-demanding native shrubs with bird dispersed fruits predominated in older stands, with more shade-tolerant species in the oldest site. Species richness increased rapidly in the first 11 years, but thereafter more slowly. Twelve native shrub species and 22 ferns were recorded from the most diverse stands. Richness and species composition were related to stand age, and probably also to topographical heterogeneity and aspect. Tree ferns reached densities of 2000 - 2500 ha1 and basal areas of 20 - 30 ma2ha1 in the older stands. Initially the tree fern population was strongly dominated by Dicksonia squarrosa, which comprised 84% of individuals overall. Five species were present by 29 years. The faster growing Cyathea medullaris and C. smithii achieved greater heights than the Dicksonia spp., and their relative biomass was greatest in the oldest stands.
24053264|A problem perplexing many ecologists studying natural communities has been how the species of a community coexist without competitive exclusion occurring. Hutchinson named this the 'Paradox of the Plankton', though the question has been asked especially for tropical rain forest and coral reef communities. Twelve mechanisms have been proposed to explain the paradox: 1. Niche Diversification, 7. Initial Patch Composition 2. Pest Pressure, 8. Spatial Mass Effect 3. Equal Chance, 9. Circular Competitive Networks, 4. Gradual Climate Change, 10. Cyclic Succession, 5. Intermediate-timescale Disturbance, 11. Aggregation, 6. Life History Differences, 12. Stabilising Coevolution. Evidence is reviewed for the relative importance of these twelve mechanisms in New Zealand indigenous vegetation. From the available evidence, it is suggested that (4) Gradual Climate Change is probably a major explanation of the Paradox of the Plankton in New Zealand. (10) Cyclic Successional processes are probably involved in this change, though there is so far only speculation for N.Z. (8) Spatial Mass Effect and (1) Niche Diversification are probably also important, though poorly documented. Aggregation (11) may facilitate these processes. (5) Intermediate-timescale Disturbance is probably unimportant for within-community coexistence, with the notable exception of small forest gaps. Elements of (3) Equal Chance and (6) Life History Differences are probably involved in this, though there is no evidence available for N.Z. Some of the elements necessary for Pest Pressure (2) appear to occur. (7) Initial Patch Composition, (9) Circular Competitive Networks, and (12) Stabilising Coevolution are probably unimportant, or even non-existent.
24052672|Recent trends in the New Zealand fur industry, based on introduced brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecula), include an increasing proportion of small skins and some evidence of declining catch per unit effort, suggesting that populations are being exploited hard. There is a case for considering sustained yield harvesting in non-sensitive habitats. A logistic model is used to estimate the maximum sustainable yield of possums from New Zealand exotic forests. Practical difficulties in controlled harvesting and potential refinements to the simple model are discussed.
24053609|Bio-dynamic control involves burning pest tissue or organs and spreading the ash on areas to be protected. In New Zealand, bio-dynamic methods have been suggested for repelling possums where they damage forests or spread disease. We assessed the repellent effects of five bio-dynamic tinctures. First we tested these materials on possums in pens and noted their effects on foraging behaviour, food consumption, and body weight. Then we monitored bait consumption from treated and untreated feeder stations in the field. Although an orthodox herbivore repellent significantly deterred possums, we detected no behavioural or repellent effects of the bio-dynamic tinctures in any of our trials. We are unable to recommend these tinctures for possum control.
24060844|Restoration of native forest vegetation in urban environments may be limited due to isolation from native seed sources and to the prevalence of exotic plant species. To investigate urban seed availability we recorded the composition of seed rain, soil seed banks and vegetation at native forest restoration plantings up to 36 years old in Hamilton City and compared these with naturally regenerating forest within the city and in a nearby rural native forest remnant. Seed rain, soil seed banks (fern spores inclusive) and understorey vegetation in urban forest were found to have higher exotic species richness and lower native species density and richness than rural forest. Both understorey vegetation and soil seed banks of urban sites >20 years old had lower exotic species richness than younger (1020 years) sites, indicating a developmental threshold that provided some resistance to exotic species establishment. However, the prevalence of exotic species in urban seed rain will allow reinvasion through edge habitat and following disturbance to canopy vegetation. Persistent soil seed banks from both urban and rural sites were dominated by exotic herbaceous species and native fern species, while few other native forest species were found to persist for >1 year in the seed bank. Enrichment planting will be required for those native species with limited dispersal or short-lived seeds, thus improving native seed availability in urban forests as more planted species mature reproductively. Further research into species seed traits and seedling establishment is needed to refine effective management strategies for successful restoration of urban native forests.
24060783|Since human settlement, wetland ecosystems in New Zealand have been severely modified by fire and reduced by drainage for agricultural development. Those remaining are problematic to manage, with modified water regimes, invasive weeds and grazing by livestock. Before settlement, wetland habitats supported diverse avian herbivores, the majority of which are now extinct. However, introduced birds are increasing in wetlands. We sought to understand the role of grazing birds in the maintenance of local turf communities in a lacustrine environment in Otago, New Zealand. To determine the causes of the vegetation patterns, we investigated the influence of abiotic (water table and soil nutrients) and biotic (direct via grazing and indirect via faeces deposition) effects of the birds on the vegetation. Four plant communities were distinguished, two dominated by Leptinella and two by Carex species. The occurrence of the communities was correlated with the distance from the nearest permanent water, soil phosphorus levels, and amount of faecal deposition. The results indicate that avian grazing decreased the proportion of dominant exotic plant species by biomass removal, but not through enhanced nutrient inputs via faecal deposition. Results from this site suggest that naturalised geese facilitate the maintenance of indigenous plant species in the face of exotic invasion, and have a conservation role in highly modified wetland systems, perhaps restoring a herbivore function lost with the extinction of native avian grazers. The long-term conservation management of wetlands in New Zealand may require the utilisation of both native and introduced avian grazers to facilitate the dominance of indigenous plants.
24060662|Estimating the detection probability of introduced organisms during the pre-monitoring phase of an eradication effort can be extremely helpful in informing eradication and post-eradication monitoring efforts, but this step is rarely taken. We used data collected during 11 nights of mark-recapture sampling on Aguiguan, Mariana Islands, to estimate introduced kiore (Rattus exulans Peale) density and detection probability, and evaluated factors affecting detectability to help inform possible eradication efforts. Modelling of 62 captures of 48 individuals resulted in a model-averaged density estimate of 55 kiore/ha. Kiore detection probability was best explained by a model allowing neophobia to diminish linearly (i.e. capture probability increased linearly) until occasion 7, with additive effects of sex and cumulative rainfall over the prior 48 hours. Detection probability increased with increasing rainfall and females were up to three times more likely than males to be trapped. In this paper, we illustrate the type of information that can be obtained by modelling mark-recapture data collected during pre-eradication monitoring and discuss the potential of using these data to inform eradication and post-eradication monitoring efforts.
24060808|Feral cats (Felis catus) are predators and competitors of native species on many islands and are therefore the target of control efforts. Cat eradication has been achieved on 83 islands worldwide. Six of these successes have been from large islands (over 2000 ha) and have reported sufficient data to examine how the eradication was achieved through combinations of aerial and ground-based poison baiting, fumigation in rabbit burrows used by cats, cage and leghold trapping, day and night shooting, and hunting with dogs. No common sequence of tactics was deployed although leghold traps were used in the latter phases of most projects. It took a mean reported effort of 543  341 person-days per 1000 ha of island over 5.2  1.6 years to completely remove cats and validate success from the six islands. These precedents may assist in planning future proposals to eradicate cats from other large islands.
24058193|New Zealand's managed offshore islands provide sanctuary to endangered and rare fauna but also benefit common native species. These productive islands may facilitate the expansion of mobile species back to the mainland. In northern New Zealand, many mainland protected sites are located on coastal headlands within short distances of these offshore islands. Bellbirds (Anthornis melanura), locally extinct on the mainland of this region for > 100 years, are capable of dispersing these distances and are occasionally sighted along the coast. Nonetheless, it was unknown whether they had established breeding populations. Natural dispersal events are difficult to assess in terms of their source, structure and likelihood of succeeding. Females are generally more difficult to detect but when present provide conservation practitioners with confidence that a population may establish. Here we test a non-invasive monitoring method for a self-reintroduced population of bellbirds at Tawharanui, a managed coastal headland situated equal distances (20 km) from two potential source populations, Little Barrier and Tiritiri Mtangi islands (LBI and Tiri, respectively). Bellbird song playbacks effectively confirmed the presence of both male and female bellbirds. The male and female song types recorded at Tawharanui were not found on Tiri but matched those of LBI and we propose this as the source population. We tested our playback protocol at other coastal parks and advocate annual playback surveys for detecting new populations at potential mainland sites.
24060713|There has been considerable ongoing debate about the extent to which the impacts of introduced deer on native vegetation have replaced those of moa, and since the 1980s there have been major changes in thinking about the impacts of deer and ratites on ecosystems. Although it has long been known that deer caused a predictable sequence of changes in forest understorey composition, recent work has shown that the foliage of species preferred by deer contains lower concentrations of fibre  and decomposes faster  than avoided species. Analyses of long-term permanent plot data suggest that some preferred species are failing to regenerate in forest types where deer are present. As well as likely altering the long-term biogeochemistry of forest ecosystems, deer have a strong negative effect on the abundance of litter-dwelling macrofauna (most likely through trampling). Estimating the impacts of extinct taxa on an ecosystem has much uncertainty, but recent experiments have shown that extant ratites and deer may have more similar feeding preferences than previously believed. It is likely that moa were important seed dispersers, but this has not been studied for deer in New Zealand. Although collectively the various taxa of deer in New Zealand use all of the habitats utilised by moa, and there is partial overlap in the diets of deer and moa, deer can attain densities and biomasses 100-fold greater than reasonably surmised for moa. We believe that the impacts of introduced deer on ecosystems are markedly different from those of moa. One way to compare the impacts of moa and deer is to use pollen to reconstruct the vegetation at a forested site in recent millennia and evaluate vegetation dynamics during the moa period, following the extinction of moa but prior to the arrival of deer (i.e. the moa gap), and following the arrival of deer. We illustrate the potential of this approach with a soil core from Chester Burn, Murchison Mountains in Fiordland. Five other areas that deserve further research are also identified.
24054669|Norway rats (Rattus norvegicus) were present on Whale Island (Moutohora), Bay of Plenty, New Zealand between about 1920 and 1987. During 1969-1971 they reduced by less than 10-35 % the breeding success of grey-faced petrels (Pterodroma macroptera gouldi), by eating unattended eggs and killing young or weak chicks. Rabbits (Oryctolagus cuniculus), introduced to Moutohora (240 ha surface area) in about 1968, multiplied rapidly to reach a density of up to 375 individuals/ha by early 1973. Their young and corpses were also eaten by rats, and this additional food, available when petrels were absent or less vulnerable (February-June), apparently increased the rat population. During 1972 to 1977, production of fledged young by the petrels was negligible. Applications of anticoagulant baits to kill rats in 1978, 1980 and 1982 resulted in large numbers of young petrels fledging only in those years; there was no carry-over effect in following years. Island-wide laying by hand of brodifacoum baits (Talon 50WB) in 1985 decimated the rat population. Further poisoning, associated with a tandem operation to kill rabbits, led to the eradication of both mammals by late 1987. Breeding success of the petrels from 1985 to 1988 (no data for 1989), and from 1990 to 1994, was consistent and increasing. This study shows that the effect of rats as predators of petrels may be modified by external factors governing the abundance and annual cycle of the predator.
24053603|Historical and recent records indicate that kiwi are less numerous and widespread in Hawke's Bay than they used to be. The birds are still scattered throughout the ranges to the west and north of the region, usually at densities of about one bird per 100 ha. Kiwi have now almost completely disappeared from their former lowland habitats. The decline of kiwi in Hawke's Bay may have started before European settlement, but has been particularly rapid in the last 70 years. Repeat surveys of three populations between 1984 and 1990-91 indicate that the decline is continuing. The main cause is thought to be predation by cats and stoats on chicks and the accidental destruction of adults by possum hunters. Feral dogs may have been important earlier this century. Kiwi will not now survive in Hawke's Bay unless they are actively managed. We give several reasons why a population should be maintained within the region, despite the costs and effort of doing so, and identify the birds at Lake Waikaremoana in Urewera National Park as being the best ones to target.
24052705|Goats were liberated on Raoul Island early in the 19th century. Attempts to eliminate the goats commenced in 1937 and have accounted for at least 15 000 animals. Since 1972, when annual hunting expeditions began, both the number of goats and the area over which they range have steadily declined and the herd is now almost extinct. Despite these changes, the mean group size of goats in 198183 remained the same at 3.19, 2.74 and 3.24 respectively. On average, 19% of goats escaped each encounter with the hunters. The breeding season extended from JanuarySeptember, with most activity in AprilJune. Productivity of the herd has increased by 77% since 1972, presumably in response to an improving food supply. This increased productivity has been achieved by an increase in the frequency of breeding from an average of 0.83 times/year in 1972 to an average of 1.08 times/year since 1981, increases in breeding rates of young females, and in mean litter sizes of older females. These parameters, and the primary sex ratio of 49:34, are used to calculate an estimate of exponential birth rate of 0.529.
24052640|For 70 years following the discovery of Macquarie Island in 1810 the endemic parakeet Cyanoramphus novaezelandiae erythrotis remained plentiful, despite the introduction of cats (Felis catus) and other predators. The crucial factor in the bird's rapid disappearance between 1881 and 1890 appears to have been the successful liberation of rabbits (Oryctolagus cuniculus) in 1879. This led to great increases of feral cats and introduced wekas (Gallirallus australis) and presumably to greatly intensified predation on parakeets.
24056167|The two haplotypes of Varroa destructor that have been identified as parasites of the Western honeybee (Apis mellifera L.) show disparate levels of virulence towards honeybee colonies. The Korea haplotype has been associated with severe colony mortality, whereas untreated colonies of European A. mellifera have survived long-term infestation by the Japan haplotype. The possible existence of a benign haplotype of V. destructor raises the prospect that it be used to "inoculate" colonies to provide biocontrol of the virulent haplotype. The feasibility of such a strategy was investigated using a mathematical model. Competition for resources during reproduction is known to reduce varroa mites' reproduction rates as their infestation levels increase. Results from modelling suggested this density-dependent effect is sufficient for an established benign population to prevent the virulent population reaching destructive levels if a colony is subject to sporadic influxes of virulent mites. A colony faced with a continuous influx of mites could be protected if the proportion of virulent mites in the influx were below a threshold level (dependent on length of breeding season and intensity of influx). This condition might be achieved by "inoculating" neighbouring apiaries and controlling feral colonies in the vicinity. Decreased brood cell invasion rate by the benign haplotype decreased the threshold level. Any reproductive isolation between the benign and virulent haplotypes would cause further reproductive suppression, driving sporadic influxes of the virulent haplotype to extinction and conferring greater tolerance to a colony faced with a virulent influx. Increased colony resistance to varroa in the model was synergistic with the inoculation of colonies in the absence of reproductive isolation, but potentially antagonistic in its presencealthough not to an extent that would preclude their joint use.
24052791|The distinction is drawn in this paper between true dendrochronological studies (using crossdating) and studies using tree-ring counts to age trees or date events. The advantages of the former approach are emphasized. We summarize the main methods used in dendrochronology, concentrating on new approaches and techniques important in the New Zealand context, present a review of recent dendrochronological research in New Zealand, and finally discuss applications of dendrochronology relevant to New Zealand.
24052609|This paper considers the questions of what limited peak density, and what caused the long decline after peak density, in a confined population of wild rabbits, Oryctolagus cuniculus. An hypothesis is proposed in which both food shortage and predation are essential components. This may also be relevant to free-living populations of voles, lemmings, and perhaps other small herbivorous mammals.
24056169|The theory of population regulation predicts that threatened species are safest at high population numbers, partly because density-dependent compensatory mechanisms counteract unpredictable disturbances. We illustrate this principle using data from the endemic kokako (Callaeas cinerea wilsoni) populations in the North Island, New Zealand. First we calculate the fledging rate per female (production) necessary to stabilise the population and thereby the residual numbers of nest predators, namely ship rats and possums, which have to be achieved to reach this production. Both predator species must be reduced to low densities to exceed this threshold production. At these low predator densities kokako numbers increase rapidly, and we predict that the population will at some stage experience density- dependent negative feedback producing a declining rate of increase. We review evidence for such feedback at Mapara. More research is required to verify and understand these density-dependent causes of loss at high density, particularly the role of territoriality and intra-specific and inter-specific competition, and to generalise across species. In addition to the increased resilience of a threatened species when at high numbers, the degree of predator removal can be relaxed. Consequently, the cost of management will also decline.
24054784|A long-life poison bait dispenser, consisting of a tree-mounted platform that dispenses a highly attractive liquid bait only when triggered by actions characteristic of a possum (Trichosurus vulpecula), was developed. The liquid bait formulation prevents deterioration due to the action of oxygen, moisture, bacteria and insects. The prototype is designed to dispense 100 lethal doses of poison, and is expected to last more than five years in the field without attention. The equipment is designed to avoid fouling by algae, debris or nesting insects. The selectivity for possums provides a low risk of exposing non-target mammals, birds and insects to poison. A reset delay reduces the likelihood of over-consumption of bait.
24060637|Improvements in technology now make it possible to track animals of cat size using Global Positioning System (GPS)-telemetry. GPS technology has important advantages over traditional Very High Frequency (VHF)-radio tracking, but does incur higher per-tag costs. Budget is a limiting factor in experimental research; thus, an evaluation of the costs associated with both technologies according to the targets of a project should be undertaken before making any final decisions on the purchase of units and final experimental design. We simulated and compared the relative costs associated with the use of GPS and VHF telemetry applied to the study of the spatial ecology of feral cats (Felis catus) in the Tasman Valley (South Island, New Zealand) as a test case. We assessed different project durations and location acquisition rates. Cost analysis revealed that GPS-telemetry is the less expensive method to quantify the spatial ecology of feral cats when long-term (<1-year duration) projects and/or high acquisition rates (>1 location/day) are required.
24054743|Short-tailed bats (Mystacina sp.) were rediscovered in Nothofagus dominant rainforest in the Eglinton Valley in February 1997, representing the first records of these bats in Fiordland since 1871. Breeding females, adult males and juveniles were captured. This paper presents preliminary observations of taxonomy, echolocation calls, population size, habitat use, activity patterns, home range size, movements, roosting, and singing behaviour. Compared to lesser short-tailed bats (M. tuberculata) on Codfish and Little Barrier Islands, the Fiordland bats were heavier, had larger wings and smaller ears, and were sexually dimorphic. The Mystacina echolocation calls were of low intensity (quiet), making them difficult to detect. Call durations in free-flying bats were only 1.0-2.9 ms long. In a comparative trial the majority of calls that were detected at 25 kHz using the Batbox III bat detector were not recorded at 40 kHz, indicating that there was little overlap with the calls of long-tailed bats (Chalinolobus tuberculatus). In February, roosting groups numbered from 107 to 279 individuals and the bats ranged over 130 km2 of the valley. Bats began emerging c. 20 minutes after sunset and were active at the roost sites throughout the night. Radio-tagged bats were active for an average of 372 minutes at a time. All roosts were in large diameter (67-146 cm dbh) red beech (N. fusca) trees.
24056441|We examine the height growth, diameter growth and below-ground allocation responses of mountain beech (Nothofagus solandri var. cliffortioides) seedlings to the experimental removal of root competition through root trenching and the addition of fertiliser within relatively intact-canopied mountain beech forest in the Craigieburn Range, Canterbury. Trenching and trenching combined with fertiliser increased relative height and diameter growth of mountain beech seedlings above that of controls. Trenching and trenching combined with fertiliser also increased the root:shoot biomass ratio of seedlings above that of controls suggesting rapid root proliferation to maximise short-term nutrient uptake. Our results are consistent with an increasing number of studies that show that on infertile soils under intact canopies seedlings of 'apparent' light-demanding species can respond to the removal of root competition. Because New Zealand indigenous forests usually occur on infertile soils, we conclude that root competition may be particularly important.
24060847|Establishment of Nothofagus spp. into grasslands can be limited by a lack of ectomycorrhizal inoculum, but the degree of mycorrhizal inoculum limitation and how far mycorrhizal inoculum spreads from forest edges has not been quantified. Further, it has been hypothesised, but not confirmed, that established Kunzea ericoides (a native Myrtaceae tree with both ectomycorrhizal and arbuscular mycorrhizal associations) could serve as an alternative host for ectomycorrhizal fungi and thus facilitate mycorrhizal infection of Nothofagus. To confirm and quantify these hypotheses, first we used an ex situ, intact-soil-core bioassay of soils collected near Nothofagus solandri var. cliffortioides forest, near established Kunzea, and in grassland distant from trees of either species. Second, we collected soils along transects of increasing distance from Nothofagus forest into adjacent grasslands. Mycorrhizal infection of Nothofagus solandri var. cliffortioides seedlings was high in soils from Near-Nothofagus and Near-Kunzea (74% and 67% of root tips, respectively) and lower in soils Distant from trees (28% of root tips). Seedlings in soils from Near-Nothofagus also had 3.4 greater biomass than those in soils Distant from trees. In the transects, mycorrhizal infection declined in a stepwise fashion at approximately 16 m distance from the forest edge, and seedling biomass was positively correlated with mycorrhizal infection. These data confirm that a lack of mycorrhizal inoculum can limit seedling establishment and show that Kunzea can provide an alternative host for Nothofagus-compatible mycorrhizal inoculum. Further, they provide quantitative data for spatially explicit models of woody establishment. Forty percent of seedlings in soils collected distant from trees had greater than 20% infection, suggesting that a lack of mycorrhizal inoculum is not a complete barrier to woody establishment, but instead may act as one of multiple environmental filters slowing beech spread.
24054542|Vegetation succession on 4 recent (1852-1942) montane lava flows on Mauna Loa, Hawaii, was remeasured 22 years after the first measurement in 1967. Colonisation patterns of vascular plant species were observed on a new lava flow (1984) which overwhelmed part of the earlier studied 1852 flow. An influx of adventive species, positively correlated with flow age, was noted at the remeasured sites; most were herbs and grasses that do not appear to interfere with the succession to Metrosideros-dominated forest. Some indigenous species important in older forest, e.g., Cibotium glaucum, had apparently colonised all four remeasured flows regardless of flow age. Densities and total basal area of Metrosideros polymorpha increased on all flows, but a closed-canopy forest had not yet developed. Vascular plant aggregations comprising a mixture of adventive and indigenous species were found on the 1984 flow associated with soil or logs of the overwhelmed forest. This phenomenon may allow rare individual Metrosideros trees to be in place on a new flow within 10 years of its formation. A closed-canopy, self-thinned Metrosideros forest can develop within 400 years but dieback of colonising Metrosideros individuals and/or invasion of adventive species capable of altering ecosystem processes can delay this process.
24056194|There are many examples in the literature of a positive correlation between the distribution of a species and its local abundance, i.e., widely occurring species tend to be more abundant locally when they do occur. Such relations have been documented over a wide range of taxa and spatial scales. There are five major hypotheses seeking to explain the relation: Random placement, Sampling error, Niche width, Demography, and Metapopulation dynamics. However, there is little evidence to distinguish between them, especially for plants. In this study, plant species presence in a short tussock grassland in inland Canterbury, New Zealand was sampled at three spatial scales (i.e. quadrat sizes; sizes of spatial grain): 0.20.3 m, 0.40.6 m, and 1.01.5 m, each divided into 0.10.15 m sub-quadrats for recording local frequency. The data were also analysed at different ranges of soil pH, water content, organic content and fertility (by bioassay). Significant positive correlations between species distribution and local abundance were found at the two larger spatial grain scales. There was no significant relation for native species, but the relation for exotic species was considerably stronger than that over all species. Reduction of environmental heterogeneity, by restricting the dataset to narrower ranges of soil factors, produced higher correlations at the two smaller grain scales. In contrast to reports in the literature, many species (most of them native) showed narrow regional distributions but high local abundance when they were at a site. It is concluded that the Sampling-error hypothesis cannot be an explanation of the results obtained here. Aspects of the results are inconsistent with the Random-placement, Demography and Niche-width hypotheses. The results are most compatible with the Metapopulation dynamics hypothesis. However, it is likely that several mechanisms are operating simultaneously. Whilst detailed analysis of empirical distributions at different spatial grains and over different ecological ranges can exclude some of the hypotheses, detailed studies of the autecology of species are the next necessary step.
24052380|Forty-two native woody species were selected to represent the range of temperature-related ecological gradients in New Zealand. Twigs collected in July (mid-winter) were sent by air to Sapporo, Japan, where they were artificially hardened and then tested for freezing resistance. Although only one plant of each species was sampled from each site in any one year, results were consistent from year to year. Freezing resistance of the plants correlates well with their natural distribution; for leaves this ranges from 4C or warmer for broad-leaved species not extending south of 39S, to 18C to 25C for the hardiest high-altitude shrubby conifers. Ecotypic differences are also apparent. Air temperatures only occasionally reach or exceed the freezing resistance of local native species, but ground frosts are more likely to affect seedlings in frosty depressions. Other temperate, southern hemisphere, evergreen trees grown at Christchurch, New Zealand, show similar freezing resistances to native species, but two deciduous species of Nothofagus are hardier than evergreen Nothofagus. Even the hardiest New Zealand trees and shrubs compare only with trees growing in warm temperate, lowland districts of Japan.
24060645|Ship rat (Rattus rattus) density was assessed by snap-trapping during summer and autumn in eight indigenous forest fragments (mean 5 ha) in rural landscapes of Waikato, a lowland pastoral farming district of the North Island, New Zealand. Four of the eight were fenced and four grazed. In each set of four, half were connected with hedgerows, gullies or some other vegetative corridor to nearby forest and half were completely isolated. Summer rat density based on the number trapped in the first six nights was higher in fenced (mean 6.5 rats ha1) than in grazed fragments (mean 0.5 rats ha1; P = 0.02). Rats were eradicated (no rats caught and no rat footprints recorded for three consecutive nights) from all eight fragments in JanuaryApril 2008, but reinvaded within a month; time to eradication averaged 47 nights in fenced and 19 nights in grazed fragments. A second six-night trapping operation in autumn, 13 months after eradication, found no effect of fencing (P = 0.73). Connectedness to an adjacent source of immigrants did not influence rat density within a fragment in either season (summer P = 0.25, autumn P = 0.67). An uncalibrated, rapid (one-night) index of ship rat density, using baited tracking tunnels set in a 50  50 m grid, showed a promising relationship with the number of rats killed per hectare over the first six nights, up to tracking index values of c. 30% (corresponding to c. 35 rats ha1). The index will enable managers to determine if rat abundance is low enough to achieve conservation benefits. Our results confirm a dilemma for conservation in forest fragments. Fencing protects vegetation, litter and associated ecological processes, but also increases number of ship rats, which destroy seeds, invertebrates and nesting birds. Maximising the biodiversity values of forest fragments therefore requires both fencing and control of ship rats.
24052676|During a peak summer for stoats in 1979/80 (density indices in two study areas 8.2 and 10.7 new captures per 100 trapnights) a total of 134 stoats were caught, marked and released (86% young of the year, 58% males). Fifty-seven of 110 stoats were recaptured at least once, of which 42 moved 0.4 - 1.6 km between first and second captures. Frequency distributions of numbers of captures and first recapture-distances up to 1.6 km were similar in males and females, adults and young, but Leslie's test showed significant (P<0.05) inequality of catchability of 21 stoats known to be present over seven trapping rounds. Dispersal movements recorded by young males exceeded 20 km. Nine males and five females, from a possible 107 animals, were recovered up to 18 months after the end of livetrapping. Significantly more marked adult males (45%) than young males (9%) were recovered. Two important implications of these data for conservation are (a) kill-trapping over large areas at considerable effort (400 m trap spacing) may only hasten an inevitable post-peak decline in stoat density, because the chances of capture are low and not the same for all stoats; and (b) those killed may be replaced by immigrants from over 20 km away.
24060666|In 2007 The Nature Conservancy (TNC) undertook an intensive ungulate control programme throughout three of its preserves on the Hawaiian islands of Maui and Moloka'i, with one aim being to reduce feral pig numbers to zero or near zero. The preserves were divided into manageable zones and over a 2 to 5 month period hunted from the ground with dogs in a series of up to four sweeps across the zones. More focussed hunting followed at sites with evidence of survivors. We used the data collected by the hunters to evaluate the efficacy of the control programme. The data comprised the number of pigs shot per zone per sweep and the hunters' effort and were used to fit a Weibull catch-effort model within a Bayesian framework. The fitted model provided posterior parameter estimates of the initial number of pigs resident in each zone and the relationship between hunting effort and the probability of detecting (and dispatching) a pig. The large shape parameter estimate indicated that the probability of detecting a pig increased substantially with cumulative hunting effort or experience in that zone. The control programme was successful in six out of eight of the control zones reducing pig numbers to zero or one per zone (equating to <1 pig per km2) but was less successful in two zones where an estimated 914 pigs remained. However there were large credible intervals around some of the parameter estimates, suggesting an additional source of variation that was not captured by the current model. We suggest this was due to immigration of pigs back into the preserves. The quantified relationship between search effort and the probability of detecting a pig was used to make predictions on how much effort is required to detect all pigs, and can be used by TNC to interpret future monitoring data.
24060622|The stomach contents of 158 hedgehogs captured at Macraes Flat, Otago, New Zealand, over two summers in 2000 and 2001 were examined for the occurrence of lizards. The remains of at least 43 skinks (both Oligosoma nigriplantare polychroma and O. maccanni) and one gecko (Hoplodactylus sp.) were found. Twenty-one percent (n = 33; 8 males and 25 females) of the examined hedgehogs had fed on skinks. Female hedgehogs ate significantly more skinks than did males. Our results suggest that the presence of large numbers of hedgehogs can have a high impact on native reptile populations in New Zealand and therefore they should be targeted in future trapping programmes.
24060621|Most non-native weeds and other naturalised plants are in the early stages of invasion into New Zealand landscapes. For this invasion to be controlled, even partially, it is important to understand the dominant routes, mechanisms, and rates of weed spread across landscapes. With their linear corridors of disturbed habitats, roadsides are thought to play a large role in the spread of some weeds. We used both new surveys and existing data to assess which of the 328 environmental weeds listed by the Department of Conservation are most frequently found on roadsides, where, and whether distribution patterns are consistent with linear dispersal. We also analysed historical survey data for relationships between reserve weediness and proximity to roads. We surveyed 340 plots of 100-m-long stretches of roadside across four regions and found between 2 and 19 environmental weeds per plot; 128 species in total (Chao estimate 148). Especially abundant were agricultural species (weeds and cultivated), species that have been naturalised for well over 50 years, and species that disperse externally attached to vertebrates. While we purposefully sampled within 10 km of town limits, we found no strong effect of distance from town on roadside weed richness, including richness of just ornamentally sourced weeds. Instead, number of houses within 250 m and presence of an adjacent house or other residential structure were both important, as was presence of woody vegetation on and adjacent to roadsides. Reserves adjacent to roads had significantly higher weed richness than reserves further from roads, although the causal mechanisms are unclear. Our results suggest that while roadsides include suitable habitats for most environmental weeds, distributions are patchy and roads show little sign of acting as linear dispersal corridors, instead largely reflecting neighbouring land uses. As such, roadside weeds should best be managed as part of the wider landscape.
24053737|Two of New Zealand's most important insect pests, grass grub and porina, are endemic species which have successfully colonised improved pastures. Population densities of these insects within this new environment are far greater than in the native plant systems in which they evolved. Within these high populations diseases have flourished, and high numbers of diseases are recorded from each of these pests. These include bacteria, fungi, nematodes, viruses and protozoa. Diseases have been frequently associated with population collapses in both grass grub and porina, and the role of diseases in natural population regulation is discussed. Insect diseases can also be applied artificially and can have a useful role in pest management.
24060832|Ecological compensation involves measures to create positive conservation outcomes intended to offset the residual impacts of development (e.g. restoration planting, pest control). Rarely, however, have the exchanges arranged been subject to objective assessment. Here we assess 110 cases of ecological compensation involving diverse New Zealand ecosystems on the basis of how they addressed the six key implementation issues identified by McKenney and Kiesecker (2010: Environmental Management 45: 165176): equivalence, location (i.e. spatial proximity), additionality, timing, duration and compliance, and currencies. Our research showed that habitat enhancement and protection is the most common form of ecological compensation, and that 72 of 110 case studies undertook compensation on the same site or immediately adjacent. The great majority (94.5%) of compensation was required by condition of resource consent to be demonstrated after the development had proceeded, with an average of 11.3 years of continuing management or monitoring required. The most common form of security other than a consent condition was a covenant (29 of 110 cases) followed by a resource management bond (25). We also found that in 97 cases there was no objective quantification of the compensation needed to make up for impact losses, with the requirements being devised by negotiation between parties with the assistance of expert input. We recognise the potential of ecological compensation as a policy tool, but recommend that significant improvements are made to its implementation to enhance ecological outcomes.
24060800|Anthropogenic fire has transformed New Zealand's vegetation. Small-scale historical Mori fires in the forests of Te Urewera National Park, North Island, initiated forest successions that were dominated early on by Kunzea ericoides (Myrtaceae), and later by Knightia excelsa (Proteaceae) and Weinmannia racemosa (Cunoniaceae). Previous work in these forests suggested that the more recent of these successions, initiated after the arrival of deer in the late 19th century, have failed to recover to pre-fire composition and structure. This failure was attributed to browsing pressure that prevented palatable canopy tree species such as Weinmannia racemosa establishing at adequate densities. We tested this hypothesis by quantifying changes in forest structure, tree species composition and above-ground tree biomass between 1980 and 2010 using permanent forest plots in three successional communities. The three communities were dominated by (1) Kunzea ericoides  kanuka, (2) Knightia excelsa  rewarewa, and (3) Weinmannia racemosa  kamahi. We show that above-ground biomass increased in all communities between 1980 and 2010, and did so most strongly in the first two communities. However, tree species composition changed little over the same time except for a more than three-fold increase in tree fern abundance in the kanuka community where they are now co-dominant with Kunzea ericoides. Recruitment of trees of canopy species was very low ( 0.06% per year) relative to mortality (1.13.9% per year) in all three communities. The proportional increase in above-ground biomass observed in the kanuka community was low relative to the large proportional increase in basal area. This occurred because of the higher abundance of tree ferns in 2010 plots that have low stem tissue density. The minimal compositional change over 30 years in these communities and paucity of recruitment of trees of canopy species point to arrested succession. Without management intervention to increase tree recruitment rates of canopy species, forest successions in this region will be characterised by high tree fern abundance, low biomass at local scales, and limited transitions to tall forest communities.
24052671|The relative abundance of possum faecal pellets in two neighbouring blocks of lowland rimu-rata forest was measured. On the commercially-trapped and poisoned block, 12.9% of sample plots contained pellets, compared with 26.3% on the other block free of hunters for 14 years. On the commercially exploited block there was a mean 0.215 pellets/m2 compared with 0.347/m2 on the untrapped block, which was probably carrying its full capacity of 9.0-12.3 possums/ha. If the relative abundance of faecal pellets directly reflects the relative abundance of possums, the trappers were holding possum numbers to between 49% and 63% of the full carrying capacity, though the confidence limits for these figures cannot be calculated.
24058128|Ratites (ostriches Struthio camelus) and ungulates (red deer Cervus elaphus scoticus and goats Capra hircus) were presented with 14 indigenous shrubs in cafeteria-style trials. The shrubs represented the spectrum of woody plant architecture, ranging from broadleaved monopodial species through to small-leaved highly branched divaricates. Trials were stopped when almost all shoots of the plant expected to be most preferred had been consumed. There were considerable differences between the herbivores in their selection of certain plant species. Aristotelia fruticosa was avoided by deer, neutrally selected by goats, and preferred by ostriches. All herbivores strongly avoided two species, Pseudopanax crassifolius and Coprosma rugosa. Analysis of relative offtake (proportion of biomass consumed from each species, relative to total biomass consumed) showed that all three herbivores ate less of species with small leaves. Consumption by all herbivores was reduced by structural plant traits (i.e. divarication and related attributes) more than by chemical plant traits. The immediate impact of browsing on the plants, measured as the rank of proportion of shoots eaten, was broadly similar across the herbivores. The broadleaved species (e.g. Myrsine australis, Aristotelia serrata) experienced the greatest browsing, while divaricate (e.g. Coprosma rugosa) and conifer species (e.g. Podocarpus hallii) were generally least browsed. Although cafeteria-style experiments have limitations, our results for deer broadly correspond to those of field-based diet preference studies.
24058146|The forests of Rangatira Island (218 ha) in the Chatham Islands are a critical breeding site for a number of rare and threatened forest bird species, but are also home to more than three million seabirds, which could significantly affect forest regeneration processes. We surveyed the forests of Rangatira Island by establishing 40 permanent forest plots, estimated seabird density through burrow counts, and analysed soil properties. To determine if seabirds were impacting on forest regeneration, we established exclosures (0.25 m2) in 30 of the forest plots, and examined the role of canopy gaps in forest regeneration. The tallest current forest (c. 15 m), dominated by Plagianthus chathamicus, has mostly regenerated since stock were removed in 1959. Mean burrow density was estimated to be 1.19 per square metre, all soils were highly acidic (pH 3.365.18), and burrow density was positively correlated with soil phosphorus. Seedling density of woody species in seabird exclosures measured after 9, 24 and 33 months was significantly higher than in the adjacent non-gap plots, and seedling density was positively associated with reduced canopy cover. Seedling densities were also significantly higher in canopy gaps than in adjacent non-gap plots, but seabird burrow density was significantly lower in gaps. These results suggest that canopy gaps allow forest regeneration despite the negative impacts of seabird burrowing. However, the gap makers, largely senescing Olearia traversii, are slowly disappearing from the forests. The cohort of Plagianthus that has regenerated following farm abandonment may progressively collapse, allowing regeneration to continue in small openings, but there is also the potential for a catastrophic blowdown. This might have serious implications for forest-dwelling birds, invertebrates, and plants.
24052387|Fairy prions, Pachyptila turtur, breed in large numbers on Stephens Island in north-western Cook Strait. The 1974-75 breeding cycle was followed with the aid of observation burrows. Laying, hatching and chick departure times were between those previously observed by Harper (1976) on the Poor Knights Islands and Richdale (1945, 1965) in Foveaux Strait. Tuatara, Sphenodon punctatus, are also numerous on the island and often share burrows with the prions. They were directly responsible for the loss of more than one quarter of the eggs and chicks, by predation and interference in the nesting chamber. This mortality is not considered to be a major factor in the regulation of fairy prion populations. That the tuatara-petrel relationship is complex, frequently aggressive, and almost exclusively favours the reptile, is emphasised by this studv.
24054741|Fuchsia (Fuchsia excorticata) has been heavily browsed and often killed by brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) in many New Zealand indigenous forests, but remains healthy at some sites despite long histories of possum occupation. To determine whether fuchsia varied genetically in its palatability to possums, material from six widely dispersed stands (provenances) was propagated, and leaf chemistry, leaf morphology, growth rate, and palatability to captive possums was compared. Leaf specific gravity, nitrogen, and phosphorous levels in field-collected foliage varied between palatable and apparently unpalatable provenances of fuchsia. However, these variables, and palatability to captive possums, were similar in propagated material from all provenances. To test the hypothesis that selective browsing had eliminated the more palatable or susceptible genotypes at sites where possums have been present for long periods, we tested the relationship between variation within provenances of measured variables and length of possum occupation at each site, but no significant relationships were found. These results suggest that phenotypic or situational differences rather than genetic variation between the six provenances may help explain observed regional differences in fuchsia health.
24058144|Control of one pest species may permit increases in abundance of other pests, thereby reducing the overall net benefit from pest control. We provide evidence that control of introduced possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) may increase ship rat (Rattus rattus) abundance in some New Zealand native forests. Ship rat abundance in a podocarphardwood forest was assessed using simple interference indices over 14 years (19902004) that included two aerial possum-poisoning operations (1994, 2000). Ship rat demography and rat and possum diet were measured from June 2001 to June 2003 when the rat population was increasing after the 2000 poisoning. Mean ship rat abundance indices increased nearly fivefold after possum control and remained high for up to 6 years after the 1994 poisoning. Rat fecundity was high (50100% of adult females breeding), even during winter, and young animals dominated the population (73% in age classes 13) in 20012002 when rat numbers were increasing. During 20022003, rat abundance stabilised, without marked winter or spring reductions, the population aged significantly (only 32% in age classes 13), and fecundity declined to low levels (427% of adult females breeding). Although seeds and fruit dominated the diet of rats driving population recovery after control (74.0% of total diet by dry weight), rat fecundity was instead closely correlated with the proportional consumption of invertebrates (r=0.91). Juvenile survival was correlated with proportional seed consumption (r =0.75), while adult survival was correlated with combined seed and invertebrate consumption (r=0.83). Adult rats ate more seeds and fewer invertebrates than juvenile rats. Seeds and fruit also dominated possum diet (52.2% of total diet). These results are consistent with the hypothesis that increased rat abundance following possum control is a consequence of greater availability of, or reduced competition for, seeds and fruit.
24054524|We examined the distribution and abundance of the invasive Hieracium species (hawkweeds) in the dry grasslands of the Upper Waitaki Basin (Canterbury) and Otago, using measures of Hieracium species frequency and hawkweed cover from 301 vegetation plots. Average hawkweed cover was significantly less in Otago than Canterbury. Hawkweed cover was also lower on drier sites, with hawkweeds having less cover at lower elevation, on more xeric sites and, in Canterbury, on soils with a lower moisture holding capacity. Environmental variables (elevation, moisture index, soil class, and measures of rabbit activity and the amount of recent pasture development) explained 43% of the variation in hawkweed cover in Canterbury, but only 25% in Otago. Furthermore, having controlled for environmental differences among plots, hawkweed cover in Otago was significantly spatially autocorrelated such that plots on the same property had similar hawkweed cover, but tended to differ from plots on other properties. This pattern is consistent with the hypothesis that variation in property management influenced the degree of hawkweed infestation. However, the same pattern was not found in Canterbury. We propose a general model to explain the observed patterns. The probability that a site will be invaded by hawkweeds is a function of: (1) the suitability of the site for hawkweed establishment (a function of the environment and past management), and (2) the size of the hawkweed propagule rain. The probability of hawkweed invasion is high when one or both of these variables have high values. Following initial invasion, there will be more local propagules coming from newly established plants and hawkweed cover at a site will increase, eventually stabilising at a level predictable from the environmental conditions at the site. This model predicts that the sites most suited for hawkweed establishment would be invaded first and fill the quickest. These susceptible sites would then serve as foci, providing propagules for subsequent hawkweed spread into adjacent, less invasion prone areas. The model predicts that the initial increase in hawkweed cover at a site should be exponential, and that there should be a lag in hawkweed spread whereby less susceptible sites are invaded later or at a slower rate. Both predictions are supported by data from monitoring trials. The model can explain the lower abundance of hawkweeds, the less predictable distribution of hawkweeds in relation to environmental variables, and the significant spatial autocorrelation in hawkweed cover in Otago compared to Canterbury, if hawkweed invasion in Otago is less complete than in Canterbury.
24060715|Holdaway (1989) described three phases of historical extinctions and declines in New Zealand avifauna, the last of which (Group III, declining 17801986) was associated with European hunting, habitat clearance, and predation and competition from introduced European mammals. Some forest bird species have continued to decline since 1986, while others have increased, usually after intensive species-specific research and management programmes. In this paper, we review what is known about major causes of current declines or population limitation, including predation, competition for food or another resource, disease, forest loss, and genetic problems such as inbreeding depression and reduced genetic variation. Much experimental and circumstantial evidence suggests or demonstrates that predation by introduced mammals remains the primary cause of declines and limitation in remaining large native forest tracts. Predation alone is generally sufficient to explain the observed declines, but complex interactions between factors that vary between species and sites are likely to be the norm and are difficult to study. Currently, the rather limited evidence for food shortage is mostly circumstantial and may be obscured by interactions with predation. Climate and food supply determine the number of breeding attempts made by herbivorous species, but predation by introduced mammals ultimately determines the outcome of those attempts. After removal of pest mammals, populations are apparently limited by other factors, including habitat area, food supply, disease or avian predators. Management of these, and of inbreeding depression in bottlenecked populations, is likely to assist the effectiveness and resilience of management programmes. At the local or regional scale, however, forest area itself may be limiting in deforested parts of New Zealand. Without predator management, the number of native forest birds on the New Zealand mainland is predicted to continue to decline.
24052384|The balanomorph barnacle Megabalanus decorus (Darwin, 1854) (Balanidae) is recorded attached to a plastic fish tag taken from a trevally (Caranx georgianus) collected in the Bay of Plenty (37 53.2 S, 176 50 E), and attached to the spine of the posterior dorsal fin of a male dogfish (Squalus acanthias L.) trawled from off the Kaikoura Peninsula (42 25 S, 173 42 E), New Zealand. Despite its extensive geographical distribution from the Kermadec Islands (30 S, 178 30 E) to Macquarie Island (54 29 S, 158 58 E), and its usage of ships, sharks and other nektonic objects, M. decorus has not spread beyond the New Zealand region.
24054673|Previous studies have shown that indigenous beetle diversity reflects indigenous plant diversity in modified and remnant habitats. This study examines the indigenous: introduced relationship at a locality where degraded pasture has been progressively revegetated. Pitfall traps were used to collect beetles from three revegetated sites of different ages (5, 17 and 100 years) and in a coastal Muehlenbeckia habitat on Matiu-Somes Island (25 ha), Wellington Harbour, New Zealand. A total of 78 morphospecies were found over 12 months. The indigenous: introduced status of 74 species were determined; 67 were classified as 'indigenous', and 7 as 'introduced'. A positive trend was found between the proportion of ground-dwelling indigenous beetle species collected and the proportion of indigenous plant species present at a study site. As the revegetated site matured, the proportion of indigenous beetle species increased. We collected 20 (83%), 37 (88%) and 48 (92%) indigenous beetle species from the 5-year scrubland, 17-year shrubland and 100-year forest, respectively.
24060647|An understanding of the mechanisms influencing habitat selection in reintroduced bird populations is fundamental for successful translocation programmes. Plant species composition, abundance, structure and food availability are likely to influence animal movement and habitat choice, but few studies have evaluated their combined effect on habitat selection of translocated birds. Stewart Island robins (Petroica australis rakiura) and South Island saddlebacks (Philesturnus carunculatus carunculatus) are two threatened New Zealand bird species that have been reintroduced to Ulva Island (Stewart Island). We hypothesised that their initial settlement patterns were driven by habitat quality. We tested this hypothesis by comparing habitat components between occupied and unoccupied habitats as the population grew after initial tanslocation. We also modelled probabilities of site selection as a function of the composition and structure of vegetation, availability of food (invertebrate composition) and nesting resources (cavity type). Founding pairs of both species first established territories in coastal habitat in the western part of the island, which is characterised by structurally complex broadleaved vegetation. Birds also selected sites with a greater abundance and diversity of food resources. Thus in the early stages of population establishment robins and saddlebacks appear to select high quality habitat that offers enhanced cover and foraging opportunities.
24060631|Understanding the factors that influence patterns of ectoparasite infestation within wildlife populations involves knowledge of the mechanisms that influence host infestation. For ectoparasitic ticks, knowing where ticks might occur in the off-host environment and how they locate their hosts is essential to understanding patterns of ectoparasite infestation. The tuatara tick (Amblyomma sphenodonti) parasitises the tuatara (Sphenodon punctatus) on Stephens Island, New Zealand. We completed a series of laboratory microcosm experiments to examine daily activity patterns, microhabitat preferences and host-seeking behaviour by Amblyomma sphenodonti. Firstly, to determine the diel activity pattern of ticks, we observed the behaviour of ticks every 2 h over a 48-h period. We then tested the preferences of ticks for soil moisture, soil texture and shade by offering different pairs of substrate conditions. Last, to determine what cues ticks used to locate their hosts, we tested the response of ticks to filter paper infused with host scent or excrement. Ticks were most active at night. They also showed a significant preference for moister, coarser and shaded substrates 12 h after the start of the experiment. Ticks did not show an immediate response to either of the two host stimuli, but after 12 h showed a significant preference for host scent and avoided host excreta. We suggest that the microhabitat preferences of ticks reflect conditions within host refuges (burrows), and that the delayed response to host odour suggests ticks could use host scent to identify substrates frequented by hosts.
24060753|House mice (Mus musculus) were introduced to New Zealand accidentally in 1824 following the stranding of an Australian ship. Phylogeographic analyses have revealed many subsequent introductions from diverse sources. Mice have significant negative impacts on native ecosystems in New Zealand and elsewhere. This makes their eradication a desirable conservation outcome, yet a large proportion of mouse eradication attempts worldwide have failed for unknown reasons. We used a phylogeographic approach to identify mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) D-loop haplotypes of mice obtained from 12 previously unsampled island and mainland sites to expand the previous sampling range for investigation of mouse genetics in New Zealand, and to test the hypothesis that eradication failure is linked to either mouse subspecies or source population as indicated by D-loop haplotype. We predicted that populations that had survived an eradication attempt would be of a different mouse subspecies or D-loop haplotype from those where eradication had succeeded. In addition, mouse populations at failed eradication sites may have a common D-loop haplotype, indicating a shared source population that may be more resistant to eradication attempts. Twenty-fice complete mtDNA D-loop sequences were generated, describing six haplotypes including two D-loop haplotypes that had not previously been recorded in New Zealand linking New Zealand mice to populations in Portugal and Iran. A Portuguese haplotype was also recorded for the two geographic outgroup specimens sourced from Reunion Island, Indian Ocean; the first recorded mouse D-loop haplotype from that location. Mice sampled from six New Zealand populations where eradication outcome was known all possessed domesticus D-loop haplotypes. Mice in four of these six populations (three successful eradications and one failure) possessed the same D-loop haplotype (domNZ.04) making it difficult to infer a link between D-loop haplotype and mouse eradication success. Further sampling in New Zealand may uncover additional haplotypes linking New Zealand mice to other areas.
24060723|We highlight three areas of significant progress in ecology since 1989 which are particularly relevant to New Zealand, and three major challenges for the next two decades. Progress: (1) The unusual life histories of New Zealand organisms, including extreme longevity and low reproductive rates, are now seen as efficient responses to the low-disturbance environment present before the arrival of large mammals, including humans. (2) Recent data show that long distance dispersal has been far more common than previously supposed, changing our image of New Zealand from a Gondwanan ark to the "flypaper of the Pacific". (3) Greatly improved techniques for pest control, and innovative species management, have stabilised numbers of many of the most charismatic of New Zealand's threatened species. Problems: (1) Native species continue to decline, including many previously thought to be stable, and improved phylogenetics and new discoveries have added threatened species. (2) Despite increased emphasis on biosecurity, biological invasions are continuing, driven by increased trade and lags in naturalisation. (3) Conservation efforts risk being overwhelmed by the direct effects of increasing human population, resource use, invasions, and global climate change at a time when human food supplies and economies are coming under increasing pressure from environmental constraints. Conclusions: (1) We need improved ecological understanding and more management tools for invasive and threatened species, especially for species other than birds. (2) In these decades of rapid climate change and habitat conversion, there is an urgent need for more widespread and sustainable integration of native species into New Zealand's rural and urban lowland landscapes.
24053569|Incubation temperatures of the great spotted kiwi were studied by telemetry methods at the Otorohanga Zoological Society in October 1989. The male maintained the core temperature of the egg at about 28-31.8C. When he emerged to feed at night, the female started to incubate. She did not have a brood patch, but could heat the egg to 28-28.5C, sufficient for embryo growth. Some of the reasons why female great spotted kiwi might help with incubation are discussed. In cold, mountain environments, the energetic costs of incubation could be so high that males alone cannot meet them. The hypothesis predicts that there are also places in the North Island where female brown kiwi (Apteryx australis mantelli) should share in incubation.
24053248|Evidence is put forward suggesting that at least some species of moa (Aves: Dinornithidae) used regular tracks, and that these tracks are still visible in various parts of New Zealand. Tracks at Poukawa, Hawke's Bay, are illustrated. Studies of the tracks may provide further information on the distribution and habitat preference of moas.
24053654|Functional convergence of different communities in similar environments would be expected as an outcome of the operation of 'assembly rules'. At an ecological level, competitive exclusion would restrict the co-occurrence of species with similar niches. Repetition of competitive sorting on an evolutionary time scale might lead to character displacement. Either process would ultimately lead to species niches being more regularly arranged in ecological factor space than expected on a random basis, with the consequence that the niche structure of different communities in similar environments would converge. We assessed the applicability of this model of community structure by comparing vegetation between study sites spaced in altitude 20 m apart along a continuous gradient in South Westland low-altitude conifer/broad-leaved forest, with respect to seven variates of vegetation texture primarily concerning the morphology of the photosynthetic unit (PSU). We employed a null model that assigns observed species to sites at random, as would be expected in the absence of assembly rules for the communities, comparing observed variation in texture to variation under the null model to look for convergence or divergence and to determine statistical significance. Significant convergence between adjacent sites was found in all variates when species weighted either by percentage cover or cover rank were used to calculate site texture means, but convergence was less pronounced among groups of five or 10 consecutive sites. Significant divergence occurred at the five-site level (three variates) using cover rank as a weighting factor and at the two-, five- and 10-site levels (five variates) when no weighting factor was used. Overall, divergence was more pronounced among sets of sites spanning a wider range in altitude, which seemed consistent with the presence of an environmental gradient along the transect, although a DCA ordination of site floristics failed to reveal a simple altitudinal trend. This study is the first to seek community-level convergence within a local area and the first to find statistically significant convergence between vegetation patches.
24060698|Reliable information about population density and trends is essential for making valid inferences regarding conservation management. The suitability of point counts using distance sampling was examined as a means of monitoring a population of kaka (Nestor meridionalis septentrionalis), a large forest-dwelling parrot, inhabiting the Waipapa Ecological Area in the central North Island of New Zealand. Counts were conducted on 13 occasions between 2000 and 2007. The sampling design was tailored to maximise the detectability of kaka and to minimise violations of the four most important assumptions of distance sampling. Location errors and subsequent distance estimation errors were most likely to bias density estimates despite our attempts to minimise failures of this assumption. Densities estimated from counts conducted in October were similar between 2000 and 2007 (approximately 0.5 kaka ha1) with no evidence of either a positive or negative trend. Densities derived from counts in February or March were more erratic and seemed to reflect variation in the frequency and success of the preceding breeding season. Given the frequency of kaka breeding, the pest control regime during the study period, and our attempts to minimise violations of distance sampling assumptions, we are confident that the reported trends in density are realistic. Although distance sampling was found to give reliable density estimates of kaka at Waipapa, this may not be the case at other sites, particularly where kaka density is low, location error is high, forest structure or topography are more complex, or surveys of kaka are made part of more extensive multi-species surveys.
24054668|We measured horse density, social structure, habitat use, home ranges and altitudinal micro-climates in the south-western Kaimanawa ranges east of Waiouru, New Zealand. Horse density in the Auahitotara ecological sector averaged 3.6 horses.km2 and ranged from 0.9 to 5.2 horses.km2 within different zones. The population's social structure was like that of other feral horse populations with an even adult sex ratio, year round breeding groups (bands) with stable adult membership consisting of 1 to 11 mares, 1 to 4 stallions, and their predispersal offspring, and bachelor groups with unstable membership. Bands and bachelor males were loyal to undefended home ranges with central core use areas. Band home range sizes varied positively with adult band size. Home ranges overlapped entirely with other home ranges. Horses were more likely to occupy north facing aspects, short tussock vegetation and flush zones and avoid high altitudes, southern aspects, steeper slopes, bare ground and forest remnants. Horses were more likely to be on north facing aspects, steeper slopes, in exotic and red tussock grasslands and flush zones during winter and at lower altitudes and on gentler slopes in spring and summer. Seasonal shifts by bands to river basin and stream valley floors in spring and higher altitudes in autumn and winter are attributed to the beginning of foaling and mating in spring and formation of frost inversion layers in winter. Given horse habitat selectivity and the presence of other ungulate herbivores, results from present exclosures are likely to exaggerate the size of horse impacts on range vegetation. Proposals to manage the population by relocation and confinement are likely to modify current social structure and range use behaviour and may lead to the need for more intensive management in the longer term.
24052382|New Zealand does not possess native social bees and many of the advanced insects which pollinate plants in other areas of the world. The flowers of most New Zealand plants are visited by a wide range of unspecialised insect species. These assemblages of flower-visiting insects on New Zealand montane and alpine plants are highly variable. Six factors which affect the relative frequency of different flower visitors on a plant species at a particular time are examined: weather, habitat, diel variation, plant mating type, animal competition, and sexual behaviour of the pollinators. Knowledge of these factors allows the dynamic nature of New Zealand pollinator assemblages to be investigated. The unspecialised floral syndromes possessed by most New Zealand plants are viewed as an adaptation to highly variable pollinator assemblages: flowers are visited by whatever pollinators are immediately available.
24053585|Changes in density and breeding of the house mouse (Mus musculus) in a New Zealand forest dominated by hard beech (Nothofagus truncata) were monitored for 2.5 years. Mice bred during winter and increased dramatically in density only during a beech mast year. Mice readily ate the endosperm and embryo of hard beech seed in the laboratory and chemical analysis showed it to be a very nutritious food source, similar in quality to Fagus beech seed in the northern hemisphere. Thus the mouse, introduced to New Zealand, responds to a Nothofagus mast year in a similar way to other rodent species in the northern hemisphere during a Fagus mast year.
24060878|Conservation strategy for maintaining and protecting tuatara (Sphenodon punctatus), a rare endemic reptile from New Zealand, includes the reinstatement of populations through the past historical range. A proposal exists to translocate tuatara from Stephens Islands in Cook Strait to the Orokonui Ecosanctuary (Te Korowai o Mihiwaka), a coastal site in southern New Zealand. The proposed site is within the former latitudinal range of the genus, but lies outside the current distribution of tuatara, where the climate is warmer. In this study, we examined whether cool incubation temperature is a limiting factor for the proposed reintroduction of tuatara to Orokonui. The tuatara is a species with temperature-dependent sex determination, with only females being produced at low incubation temperatures. Thus, cool southern temperatures may produce only females, even if incubation temperatures are high enough to support successful development. We experimentally translocated tuatara eggs to the ecosanctuary and found that nest temperatures were consistently below those of nests in their current natural distribution and would produce only female hatchlings if successful incubation occurred. An addition of sand to soil did not raise temperatures sufficiently to produce both sexes. However, additional assessments of soil temperatures in a third year indicated that some new sites were warm enough for males to be produced. Given that other aspects of site suitability appear favourable, and that global temperatures are predicted to rise in the near future, which should produce a more viable incubation environment, translocation of this long-lived reptile to the southern ecosanctuary is worth further exploration. However, monitoring of female nesting behaviour, including nest locations, depths and resulting temperatures, will be essential. Our study demonstrates an experimental approach for assessing site suitability for translocation that may be relevant to other egg-laying reptiles.
24054527|Feral goats (Capra hircus) were studied in the Mahoenui giant weta reserve, southern King Country, New Zealand, from March 1992 to February 1993. The reserve supports the main population of the undescribed Mahoenui giant weta (Deinacrida sp.). Gorse (Ulex europaeus) is the dominant woody browse plant in the reserve and provides protection, shelter and food for weta. The activities, foraging behaviour and diet of feral goats within the reserve were measured by direct observation and analysis of rumen contents. Measures of nutrient levels indicate that gorse is adequate for goat growth only during late spring/summer, and becomes a maintenance food at other times of the year. Feeding (grazing and browsing) was the dominant activity of adult feral goats in the reserve. Females spent more time feeding than males. Grazing and browsing changed seasonally for both sexes, with grazing generally decreasing from autumn to summer, and browsing increasing from summer to spring. In every season females spent more time grazing than males, but males browsed more than females. Greater use of browse by males may be an effect of the presence of females. Browsing of gorse by goats may not be an important influence on weta survival.
24052644|The distribution of native grassland types is related to moisture and temperature gradients. Past trends in distribution likely to continue are the advance into the forest zone, the retreat from higher altitudes and further extensive modification by grazing agriculture. Whether these changes are "good" or "bad" is a human viewpoint. Current social issues influencing native grasslands are considered. In particular the conservation movement is seen as a transient phenomenon.
24054438|A 55 ha remnant of coastal native forest at Wenderholm Regional Park (near Auckland) was selected as the site for a pilot experiment to test if rat control could yield measurable benefits in increased productivity of New Zealand pigeons. Talon 50WB poison baits were used to reduce rat numbers over the summer of 1992-93. Pigeon breeding success was significantly higher (5 fledglings from 11 nests) than in preceding summers without rat control (no fledglings from 27 nests).
24052818|The diet and food preferences of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) on north-eastern Stewart Island are described from the analysis of 160 samples of rumen contents collected between 1979 and 1985, and vegetation surveys in 1975 and 1976. Deer browsed all the hardwood trees, but few shrubs, ferns, or podocarps. Woody plants comprised 85.1% (dry weight) of annual diet. Broadleaf (Griselinia littoralis; 34.6%) and supplejack (Ripogonum scandens; 18.6%) were the most important foods, all other species comprising less than 5%. There were no differences in diet between the sexes and only small differences between areas. Fawns, however, ate more supplejack fruit and less shrubs, ferns, herbs, and grasses than older deer. All deer ate more supplejack fruit and foliage of subcanopy trees, and less broadleaf, shrubs, and ferns in winter than in other seasons. Food appeared scarcest in summer. Deer probably obtained most of their food as fallen leaves and fruit; this is discussed in the context of the long term trends in forest structure and deer carrying capacity that follow deer colonisation. We believe the main hardwood food trees will gradually die out, resulting in a substantial decline in the carrying capacity of the forest.
24056283|Comparisons were made of density indices of free-living populations of ship rats (Rattus rattus) in mixed forest in New Zealand by using footprint tracking tunnels and two kill-trapping methods. Tracking tunnels and snap-trap removal indices of rat densities showed similar trends when run on a 9 ha trapping grid, although immigration onto the grid occurred, thus violating one of the assumptions of the analysis. Tracking rates and snap-trap capture rates were not significantly correlated when run along a trapping line for a 12 month period, although tracking rates and the total number of rats caught in a trapping session were significantly correlated. Time series analysis showed that rat density indices from tracking tunnels and Fenn traps were significantly correlated when run for 27 consecutive months in a rat population with moderate density, but were not correlated in a low density rat population. The findings highlight the importance of habitat, sample size and target species behaviour in influencing relative density indices obtained from tracking tunnels, snap-traps and Fenn traps. Given the widespread use of rodent tracking tunnels in New Zealand, we suggest that tracking tunnels should only be used to compare relative abundance within similar habitat types, and should always be complemented with a second density index. The relationship between the commonly used density indices and true rodent population density requires urgent attention.
24053256|During the Late Holocene (1800 years BP to the present day) there have been three depositional episodes in coastal sand dune areas: Tamatean (1800 to 450 years BP), Ohuan (450 to 150 years BP) and Hoatan (150 years BP to the present day). Each episode comprised two phases: an unstable phase with a high rate of deposition, followed by a stable phase with a low rate of deposition and soil formation. For the last 1000 years sand dune areas have been favoured places for human settlement. Despite a growing population, unstable dunes have twice become stable. Soils formed on them at the same times as on river alluvium. During that 1000 years, three quarters of the forest cover was progressively cleared by burning, but there was no apparent correlation with increased instability in sand dune areas. The depositional episodes are therefore considered to be independent of human influence. Their principal cause appears to be climatic, with unstable phases being windy and dry and stable phases less windy and moist.
24060777|Litterfall reflects forest productivity and is an important pathway of nutrient cycling in forests. We quantified litter quantity, nutrient concentrations, and decomposability for 22 permanently marked plots that included gradients of altitude (a range of 320780 m), soil nutrients and past disturbance in a cool temperate evergreen montane rain forest in the western South Island of New Zealand. For each plot we quantified total fine litterfall and sorted it into components over a 2-year period, and for each of four widespread tree species in each plot (when present) we measured litter nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) concentrations, litter decomposability, and the release of litter N and P during decomposition. Total fine litterfall (mean 2.96 Mg ha1 year1) was low compared with other similar montane forests in New Zealand and elsewhere, and it declined with altitude and increasing successional stage of the plots. However, litterfall of four widespread tree species was unrelated to successional stage and that of only one was related to altitude. Further, neither total fine litterfall nor that of these four species was related to soil N or P concentrations with one exception. For the four species we found substantial variation among plots in litter N and P concentrations (up to 16-fold for N, 57-fold for P), litter decomposability, and the release of N and P during decomposition. Despite this, these variables were only rarely correlated with altitude, successional status, or soil nutrient concentrations across plots. Our results suggest that within-species variability in litterfall, nutrient concentrations, and decomposability are likely to be substantial in systems that have a high level of spatial variability because of recurrent large disturbances, and this has potentially important implications for the cycling of carbon, N and P, at the landscape scale.
24052766|The 'regrassing' trials established by L. Cockayne in 1920 on Northburn Station, near Cromwell, Central Otago, were last described by Douglas (1970) from observations made in 1967. In this paper, the early results are briefly reviewed and discussed in comparison to a 1984/85 assessment of the plots. This assessment includes quantitative data on the composition and spread of both pasture species and tree species inside and outside each trial area, thus establishing a base for future appraisals of Cockayne's plots. The ability of several plant species to survive and spread from the plots, despite the semi-arid climate and soils of low fertility, is noted in relation to possible low-cost development in depleted tussock grasslands. The spread of conifers from the Cockayne plots is viewed with concern.
24052611|Food habits of the tuatara (Sphenodon punctatus) on Stephens Island, in north-western Cook Strait, were studied by field observations and faecal analysis. The tuatara is a selective predator, feeding on a wide range of small animals, mainly large insects. Its diet shows seasonal changes and habitat differences, related to local conditions: the coastal broadleaf forest habitat, which predominated in pre-European times but is now only represented by remnants, seems to be most favourable. The tuatara population, although large, seems to be no threat to the survival of any of its prey species.
24053176|Seven feral pigs (Sus scrofa), radio-tracked in relatively undisturbed rough pasture and forest near Murchison, New Zealand, for periods of 18-186 days, occupied home ranges of 28-209 ha. The immature pigs were significantly more active and had significantly larger home ranges than the adults, particularly adult females. The pigs were mainly nocturnal but they varied individually. The frequency of grazing and the rooting up of pasture and bracken (Pteridium esculentum) varied seasonally. Some of the pigs preferred pasture and bracken in their home ranges while others preferred mixed beech (Nothofagus spp.) forest. The number of pigs and their use of habitat were probably related to the seasonal availability and quality of food and shelter. Farrowing occurs throughout the year but peaks during spring. Litter sizes ranged from 1-9. Density was roughly 12-43 pigs per km2 compared with 3-8 per km2 in a nearby, more heavily hunted area.
24052003|The Paringa district is almost completely forested below timberline, with conifer/hardwood forests prevailing in the northeast, and silver beech widely dominant in the southwest, especially at the higher altitudes. In a transitional zone, silver beech grows as scattered stands, isolated by distances up to 6 km. During heavy glaciation of the mountainous part of the district, silver beech may have survived near the present coast and beyond it on land exposed by a lowered sea level. Post-glacial spread from such refugia to the most inland valley heads would require a spreading rate averaging at least 700 m/century, and it is suggested that this was achieved by dispersal of seed on to freshly exposed mineral soils, where beech seedlings apparently can grow independently of mycorrhizal infection. From the nuclei thereby established there was, and still is, gradual invasion of surrounding vegetation. The post-glacial pollen record and the present distribution of silver beech both indicate a pattern of northeasterly spread.
24058149|Heteroblastic plants produce markedly different leaf morphologies between juvenile and adult stages, while homoblastic plants exhibit little or gradual changes. We tested the hypothesis that the leaf morphology of the seedling stage of New Zealand heteroblastic species is advantageous in dealing with low light levels found in forest understorey. We used four independent contrasts of heteroblastic and homoblastic seedlings from the genera Aristotelia, Hoheria, Pseudopanax, and Melicope grown in full-sun (100% sunlight) and shade (5% sunlight) light environments in a glasshouse. The four heteroblastic species had consistently smaller leaves and lower specific leaf area than their paired homoblastic species both in sun and shade. In the shade, there were no consistent differences in leaf anatomy (thickness of leaf blade, cuticle, epidermis, and palisade mesophyll, and stomatal density  stomatal aperture length) or physiology (maximum photosynthetic rate, dark respiration, and light compensation point) between homoblastic and heteroblastic species. However, in the sun, heteroblastic A. fruticosa, P. crassifolius, and M. simplex had appreciably thicker leafblades as well as higher maximum photosynthetic rates than their homoblastic congeners. These traits suggest heteroblastic seedlings possess leaf traits associated with an advantage in high-light environments. We conclude that the heteroblastic seedling leaf morphology is unlikely to be an adaptation to very low light. Alternative explanations for the functional significance of changing leaf morphology in association with life-stage should be sought.
24054514|We describe the use of harmonic radar in the field with simple, inexpensive tags with extended lifespan. The effects of aerial size and shape, and the detection range of several types of diodes under different conditions are described. Examples are provided of tracking short-term movement of a ground beetle, Plocamosthetus planiusculus, and long-term movement of a snail, Paryphanta busbyi watti. The potential and limitations of the method are discussed.
24058188|Assessments of the effects of invertebrate herbivores on high-altitude plants have seldom taken into account both mutualistic and antagonistic interactions. To evaluate the effect of herbivores (antagonists) and pollinators (mutualists) on the female reproductive success of the high-Andean perennial herb Alstroemeria umbellata, we separately and simultaneously excluded aphids (herbivores), and bees and bumblebees (pollinators) in a 22 factorial design. In flowers with pollinators excluded, aphids did not reduce seed set per flower (i.e., a direct effect). However, in flowers exposed to pollinators, aphids reduced seed set by 1.7 times (i.e., a pollinator-mediated indirect effect). Likewise, both types of animals exerted non-additive effects on maternal fecundity. These results suggest a modulating role for herbivores on the selection pressures exerted by pollinators on A. umbellata.
24052731|Vegetation succession on Mt Tarawera, Rotorua, New Zealand, a recently erupted volcano, was studied. Field data from 70 plots were collected and analysed by a clustering algorithm. The plots formed an altitudinal and successional series which included bare scoria, herbfield, mixed hardwood, scrub, kamahi forest and tawa forest. Because of the differential effects of the 1886 eruption, different successional trends are being followed on the north-west and south-east faces of the mountain.
24060720|This paper briefly reviews advances in knowledge of the non-lichenised fungi of New Zealand over the past 25 years. Since 1980, the number of species recorded from New Zealand has doubled, and molecular techniques have revolutionised studies on fungal phylogeny and our understanding of fungal distribution, biology and origins. The origins of New Zealand's fungi are diverse; a few appear to be ancient, whereas many have arrived in geologically more recent times following trans-oceanic dispersal. Some of these more recent arrivals have evolved subsequently to form local endemic species, while others may be part of larger populations maintained through regular, trans-oceanic gene flow. Although questions remain about which fungi truly are indigenous and which are exotic, about one-third of the fungi recorded from New Zealand are likely to have been introduced since human settlement. While most exotic species are confined to human-modified habitats, there are some exceptions. These include species with potential to have significant impacts at the landscape scale. Examples from saprobic, pathogenic, endophytic and ectomycorrhizal fungi are used to discuss the factors driving the distribution and dispersal of New Zealand's fungi at both global and local scales, the impact that historical changes to New Zealand's vascular plant and animal biota have had on indigenous fungi, and the broader ecological impact of some of the exotic fungal species that have become naturalised in native habitats. The kinds of fungi present in New Zealand, and the factors driving the distribution and behaviour of those fungi, are constantly changing. These changes have occurred over a wide scale, in both time and space, which means New Zealand's indigenous fungi evolved in response to ecological pressures very different from those found in New Zealand today.
24060663|Detecting the presence of invasive mammalian pests is expensive, particularly where multiple species of interest are sympatric, yet is key to determining when, where and how much control to do, and the effectiveness of that control. Here we describe the efficacy of a simple new and cheap device, the chew-track-card (CTC), both as a potential tool for simultaneously indexing the relative abundance of sympatric small-mammal pests, and for cheaply and comprehensively mapping the distribution of these pests over large, remote areas. The CTC is an interference device that can record both tooth impressions and the footprints of animals interacting with it. Several studies comparing CTC indices (CTCIs) with established indices of possums and rodents are reported. Possum CTCIs were positively and significantly correlated with established trap-catch indices (TCI), WaxTag and faecal pellet indices of possum abundance. The relationship between possum CTCI and TCI in seven study sites was always positive and, with adequate sampling, statistically significant, but was also variable, probably due to monitoring protocols differing between trials. Rat CTCIs were also positively correlated to tracking tunnel indices, but these two indices were unrelated for mice. Standard leg-hold trapping cost 2946 times more per possum detection than for CTCs during a large-scale survey of the Hauhungaroa Range. CTCs are a sensitive and cost-effective means of detecting the presence of small mammalian pests, especially possums and rodents. They also potentially provide a robust tool for indexing low density populations of such pests, particularly possums and rats, although further calibration of CTC indices of pest abundance with standard indices is required. Also, the consequences of interaction between abundant pests, particularly rats, on CTC detection rates, and means to reduce these interactions, need further investigation.
24053311|The improvement of New Zealands pastures over the last 150 years has increased the nutrient status of the soil as a result of the application of fertiliser, an increased soil organic matter content and increased biological activity. The grazing animal has also influenced the nutrient status of the soil by increasing the rate at which nutrients cycle between the soil, plants and animals. However, the grazing animals also cause losses of nutrients from the soil through concentrating nutrients into small volumes of soil under dung and urine patches, redistributing nutrients around the farm and removal of nutrients in the form of animal products. If these losses are not replaced by fertiliser applications then reductions will occur in both the amount of nutrients in the soil and in pasture production. Research directed toward maximising the cycling of nutrients originating from animal excreta is required in order to develop strategies to minimise fertiliser inputs.
24054654|Kawakawa (Macropiper excelsum) is an understorey, forest tree which sustains conspicuous and substantial herbivory from the larvae of a geometrid moth, Cleora scriptaria. This study examined the relationship between leaf abscission and the amount of damage a leaf had sustained. In the field, kawakawa trees showed no increase in the rate of leaf shedding in response to experimental damage by C. scriptaria larvae or to artificial damage produced by a hole punch, even when 90% of the leaf area was removed. The tree did not compensate for a loss in leaf area by increasing the chlorophyll content of damaged leaves. Although herbivore damage is conspicuous and appears detrimental, the tree's leaf phenology does not appear to be affected. It is concluded that this plant species has evolved to tolerate frequent and severe feeding damage to its leaves.
24060820|Forest dynamics in New Zealand are shaped by catastrophic, landscape-level disturbances (e.g. volcanic eruptions, windstorms and fires). The long return-intervals of these disturbances, combined with the longevity of many of New Zealand's tree species, restrict empirical investigations of forest dynamics. In combination with empirical data (e.g. palaeoecological reconstructions), simulation modelling provides a way to address these limitations and to unravel complex ecological interactions. Here we adapt the forest landscape model LandClim to simulate dynamics across the large spatio-temporal scales relevant for New Zealand's forests. Using the western slope of Mt Hauhungatahi in the central North Island as a case study, we examine forest succession following the Taupo eruption (c. 1700 cal. years BP), and the subsequent emergence of elevational species zonation. Focusing on maximum growth rate and shade tolerance we used a pattern-oriented parameterisation approach to derive a set of life-history parameters that agree with those described in the ecological literature. With this parameter set, LandClim was able to reproduce similar spatio-temporal patterns in vegetation structure to those seen in pollen reconstructions and contemporary vegetation studies. The modelled successional sequence displayed a major shift in forest composition between simulation years 400 to 700, when the dense initial stands of conifers (dominated mainly by Libocedrus bidwillii) were progressively replaced by the angiosperm Weinmannia racemosa in the montane forest. From around year 1000, the contemporary elevational species zonation was attained. Competition for light controlled the major successional trends and, together with temperature-limitation, explained the observed elevational species zonation. Although originally designed for European temperate forests, LandClim can simulate New Zealand landscape dynamics and forest response to catastrophic disturbances such as the Taupo eruption. We suggest that LandClim provides a suitable framework for investigating the role of spatial processes, in particular disturbance, in New Zealand's forest landscapes.
24054430|Percentage non-toxic bait interference is currently used by local authorities to monitor brushtail possum control operations but the validity of the method has not been established. Two models have been proposed to estimate an index of possum density (possums per bait) from a log-transformation of percentage bait interference. In two trials, percentage bait interference and the density index derived from percentage bait interference using the Bamford (1970) model usually increased from night to night. Variation in the number of possums per bait was reduced by dividing the Bamford index by the number of nights baits were put out, as proposed by Jane (1981). The spatial distribution of bait interference along lines of bait stations was random for the first night and usually for at least 5 nights. Rhodomine dye and cyanide poison, alternated at bait stations after at least 5 nights non-toxic baiting, showed that about 83% of possums in one trial and 29% of possums in the other trial interfered with more than one bait on the same night. Increasing the spacing between bait stations reduced the proportion of possums interfering with more than one bait. The number of possums per line killed by cyanide baits after at least 5 nights of non-toxic baiting was strongly correlated with percentage bait interference, with and without logarithmic transformation, on the first night. The possums' apparent ability to remember the location of bait stations from one night to the next means that, in the absence of better advice, the original Bamford (1970) model should be modified as proposed by Jane (1981) to estimate possum density and change in possum density (e.g., from pre- to post-poison).
24056162|Early models of directly transmitted wildlife disease focused on rabies transmission as a travelling wave, usually in a homogeneous density of wildlife. Such models of epi-enzootic diseases paid little attention to local-scale disease prevalence. Historical data on bovine tuberculosis (Tb) in cattle indicates that very localised areas can suffer from frequent repeat breakdowns, indicating that some environmental factors might be the cause. There are a number of different ways to simulate such local disease 'hotspots' in wildlife, and these resultant hotspots may mean that, overall, wildlife disease prevalence is very low. However, spatial and temporal persistence of this hotspot is more difficult to model. This heterogeneity in disease prevalence is difficult to produce in non-spatial models, and is one of the reasons why such models gave poor predictions of disease dynamics in the field. For example, Nigel Barlow struggled with finding a way to produce this spatial heterogeneity in mathematical models, culminating in his 2000 paper in Journal of Animal Ecology. This gave a phenomenological treatment, but not a causative solution. I take a look at the various causative methods of producing disease heterogeneity in simulation models of Tb, a chronic wildlife disease. These include (1) chance, (2) model artefacts, (3) population (e.g. demographic, genetic) heterogeneity and (4) environmental heterogeneity. I further argue that only (4) can be predicted over a medium timescale, and propose methods to assess the contribution of (1) and (2) in a model. I also discuss how spatial heterogeneity may affect Tb management.
24060757|In a biodiversity conservation exercise a native raptor has been reintroduced to Marlborough, a wine-growing area in New Zealand's South Island, on the assumption that the abundant passerines attracted to the grapes will provide a natural food resource for this predator. As part of a study to assess the value of vineyards as habitat for the threatened New Zealand falcon (Falco novaeseelandiae) we used remote videography and prey remains to compare the diet composition of falcons nesting in a vineyard-dominated landscape with that of falcons nesting in natural habitat in nearby hills. We also quantified the abundance and species composition of avian prey in the habitats surrounding each falcon nest. Generally there were more birds in the vineyards but the composition of available prey did not differ between vineyards and the nearby hills, nor did the composition of avian species in the breeding-season diet of falcons. Avian prey was the main food source for falcons during the breeding season, representing 97.9% of prey items by frequency and 83.3% of prey items by biomass. Mammals represented only 1.9% of prey items by frequency, but made up 16.7% of prey items by biomass. We also found that falcons preyed on introduced species more than would be expected, and on endemic species less than would be expected, based on their availability in the landscape. The absence of any significant differences in diet between native and vineyard habitats during the breeding season suggests that the latter may be a suitable alternative when natural habitats are unavailable, although further study must be conducted into the role of supplementary feeding on these effects. These findings pave the way for research in other production landscapes that could be used for conservation measures.
24058160|Wild ginger (Hedychium gardnerianum) is a tall rhizomatous herb that invades forests and shrubland fragments in northern New Zealand. In order to determine the impacts of this invasive weed on forest processes, comparisons of conifer-broadleaved forest patches with different densities of ginger were made at Opononi and Whangarei in Northland. Soil properties, vegetation structure, floristics, and seed rain were recorded. Annual litterfall biomass and chemical composition were measured. There were no significant differences between soils under forest with sparse (< 5% cover) and dense (> 50% cover) ginger. A sparse subcanopy layer and fewer saplings were common factors in ginger plots. Forest canopy litterfall (c. 6.8 t ha1 yr1) and total N (45.1-56.2 kg ha1 yr1) were similar in plots with sparse or dense ginger. Species richness of adult trees and seedfall richness varied little. In contrast, seedling density and richness were lower in dense ginger stands and seedling composition was dominated by species with large (> 200 mg) seeds, i.e. Corynocarpus laevigatus, Dysoxylum spectabile and Rhopalostylis sapida. These seedlings may produce a different forest canopy from that currently found in areas where ginger is sparse.
24054526|Soil conditions, vegetation features and soil fauna were recorded in montane tall tussock grassland dominated by narrow-leaved snow tussock Chionochloa rigida ssp. rigida up to 30 months after a spring fire. Burning reduced the stature of tussocks and the size and density of tillers in the first growing season. After two growing seasons, tussock canopy development and tiller size remained below those found in the unburnt grassland nearby. New tillers and tussocks established following the prolific fire-induced flowering one year after burning. After the fire and sheep grazing, intertussock cover became progressively dominated by introduced grasses and herbs. While soil pH, moisture content, bulk density, surface litter and total nematodes showed significant treatment (burning) effects, these properties also showed significant year-to-year variation. The greatest increase in any nematode group was in Paratylenchus, a distinctive genus widespread in tussock grasslands and apparently responsive to environmental fluctuation and root development; its population was 100 and 29 greater in the burned area than in the control area 16 and 30 months after burning. Subject to detailed testing, populations of mites and collembola may provide relatively simple indicators of recovery of ecosystem function of such grasslands after burning.
24054692|To assess the effect of possum browse on plant growth, an index of the amount of foliage on about 50 trees of Fuchsia excorticata and the number of trees that died or were completely defoliated was measured at five sites in South Westland over 5 years. This index was compared to possum density indices taken at each site each year. At one site, possums were reduced from a high density about 6 months before the final measurement. The degree of defoliation of fuchsia was significantly related to the density of possums at each site. Possums defoliate and kill fuchsia within two years once the catch-rate index of their density exceeds about 25%. However, this impact can be halted and quickly reversed by reducing possum density.
24052012|The paper summarizes information on the identity of plant fragments from 14 moa gizzard contents samples and outlines some features of moa diet, feeding habits and habitat which may be inferred from the investigation of these samples. Most of the moa specimens (possibly all of them) were from the genus Dinornis. Twigs of shrubs and trees, which were sheared off, formed the predominant part of the diet of the birds just before their death, but seeds, fruits, and leaves were also present. These moas were browsing animals living at the margins of forest and mires, though they must have traversed some open ground and probably also penetrated the forest.
24054777|We monitored 16 radio-tagged moreporks (Ninox novaeseelandiae) on Mokoia Island after a brodifacoum poison drop to eradicate mice (Mus musculus), normally included in the owls' diet. All 16 moreporks were alive after 13 days. One bird was found dead on day 22, and corpses of two radio-tagged birds were located on day 51. The bird found on day 22 contained 0.97 mg kg1 of brodifacoum in its liver. The other two carcasses were not analysed, but they probably died as a result of brodifacoum poisoning. Thus, three out of 14 birds died (21% mortality). A further eight banded and six non-banded birds were also monitored. Of these, 50% were not seen following the drop. Secondary poisoning is implicated in the disappearance of these birds. Sublethal effects such as lowered breeding success and stress may have affected morepork over a prolonged period following the poisoning operation. Further studies are needed to investigate the exact pathway of this poison, especially the potential for invertebrates to carry poison.
24055315|Incubation behaviour varies among the different taxa of kiwi. For North Island brown kiwi (Apteryx mantelli) and little spotted kiwi (A. owenii), only the male incubates the eggs, except for in the first week. Meanwhile, for Okarito brown kiwi (A. mantelli) and the tokoeka (A. australis), incubation is shared by both sexes. In addition, amongst southern tokoeka, family group members can assist with incubation to the extent that breeding males may take no part in incubation at all. This study shows that kiwi turn their eggs regularly, an observation that contradicts earlier findings. There is a mean incubation temperature of 36.5C at the top of the egg but the bottom may be 10C lower in North Island brown kiwi and 5-8C lower in Okarito brown kiwi eggs. Experiments inducing water loss from fertile and infertile eggs show that the presence of an embryo does not influence rate of water loss. North Island brown kiwi, Okarito brown kiwi and tokoeka regularly have more than one clutch in a season, and some North Island brown kiwi females lay up to seven eggs each year.
24056435|This study investigated how predation risk in North Island brown kiwi changes as the birds grow and develop. Over a 10-year period, 53 adult and 126 young kiwi were radio-tagged at Lake Waikaremoana and studied to determine survival rates, causes of death, and rates of growth. Predation loss amongst adults was low (2.49% year1) and caused mainly by ferrets. Young kiwi suffered intense predation from stoats during their first four months of life, but thereafter became too large (> 800 g) for stoats to kill. Juveniles took at least 880 days to attain adult size, about four times longer than expected for a 23 kg bird. Growth rates peaked at about the point of hatch, rather than later on in development as in other birds. We suggest that a long evolutionary history dominated by resource limitation rather than predation may account for slow rates of development in kiwi, and that differences among kiwi species in their ability to persist in the presence of stoats are explained by differences in the time that they take to reach safe-size.
24053249|Large and medium-sized moa were trapped in soft calcareous sediments in Pyramid Valley mire at various times within the last 4 millennia. Before about 1800 yr B.P. any trapped birds must either have been wading in a shallow lake, or walking on its dry bed, just before being mired. Later, some birds were probably trapped while traversing a Carex secta  Phormium tenax swamp. Gizzard contents include large quantities of twigs of shrub and tree species which, characteristically, do not occur on mires and could not have been reached by trapped birds. The moa must have browsed within forest and along its margins before venturing onto the mire.
24054459|A plant sociological survey of tall-tussock grasslands in the Mackenzie country was repeated after an interval of 26-28 years. Changes in physiognomy of the grasslands which have been inferred from earlier studies have been found to be continuing on many sites. A noteworthy feature of most sites has been a reduction in number of indigenous species found. An increase in abundance of Hieracium pilosella or H. praealtum has occurred at most sites. About 140 species and 9 variables from 53 sites were interrelated in a direct unimodal ordination (canonical correspondence analysis). Ordination results of the 1960s and the 1989 data were compared and interpreted with respect to spread of Hieracium pilosella and H. praealtum. The dynamics of Hieracium infestation was studied within changing community structure. A distinct trend is demonstrated of increasing infestation with increasing grassland degradation.
24060648|The translocation of animals between populations is becoming a common conservation technique, which, in addition to the target species, unfortunately inevitably involves any parasitic organisms they host. Many of these organisms can become pathogenic in a new environment. We assessed the prevalence of intestinal carriage of Salmonella, a common disease organism in wildlife worldwide, in New Zealand native lizards on eight islands off the coast of New Zealand. Cloacal swabs were obtained from 703 lizards and cultured for Salmonella, using four aerobic enrichment and culture methods at two incubation temperatures. We recorded six environmental and physical variables that may affect Salmonella carriage. Logistic regression revealed that two variables were significantly correlated to the presence/absence of Salmonella. In general, Salmonella was found predominantly but not exclusively in six species of lizard and in beach habitats. Salmonella prevalence on the islands was not correlated to previous lizard translocations to the island. More research is required to determine the pathogenicity to New Zealand wildlife of the Salmonella serovars identified in this study. Pending further research, translocations of the six species highlighted in this study or to beach habitats should include disease screening in order to prevent the spread of this potential pathogen.
24060866|This study investigates symbiotic microorganisms in the New Zealand dampwood termite Stolotermes ruficeps using culture-independent techniques to describe the diversity of nitrogen-fixing organisms within this termite. Phylogenetic analysis of a portion of the nifH gene (encoding dinitrogenase reductase) revealed 19 phylotypes (>98% sequence identity) with 7786% similarity to published nucleotide sequences from uncultured microorganisms described from termite guts. The majority of sequences obtained in this study were most closely related to sequences obtained from basal families Kalotermitidae, Termopsidae and the closely related wood-feeding cockroach species Cryptocercus. This adds to the growing amount of evidence suggesting that the composition of nifH sequences is characteristic of a termite family. This study also identifies wood-dwelling termites as a potentially important source of nitrogen input into temperate forests, something previously neglected and warranting further investigation.
24060873|Establishing the factors that correlate with the distribution of invasive species on islands provides a means of evaluating invasion potential and pathways, and enables the invasion risk for specific areas to be predicted. These island risk profiles then provide a basis for conservation managers to prioritise conservation areas, and to create appropriate monitoring regimes. In New Zealand, stoats (Mustela erminea) are invasive predators responsible for numerous local extinctions of birds, and they present a significant invasion risk for offshore islands. Here we examine the distribution of stoats on New Zealand's offshore islands in order to establish what factors are correlated with their distribution, and predict which islands display a high invasion risk. Data on the distribution of stoats were compiled, along with the characteristics of New Zealand's islands and their settlement history. The distribution of stoats on these islands was regressed on island characteristics using a logistic generalised linear model. Species interactions were examined by including the distribution of a range of other introduced mammalian species. The distribution of stoats was found to be strongly affected by the distance offshore and by the area of the island. No significant correlations with the extent of human settlement or the presence of other animals were detected. The model indicates that the invasibility of islands by stoats has been underestimated. Islands within 1 km of the mainland have a very high stoat invasion risk, which is consistent with known invasions, and for large islands ( 500 ha) there remains a significant risk to at least 3 km offshore. This model provides a framework for assessing risks of stoat incursion and makes specific predictions of islands with a significant invasion risk that have not had stoats detected before.
24052389|Feeding intensity of moorhens (Gallinula chloropus) in Scotland is indexed by combining frequency of feeding activities with rates of pecking measured on three substrates. Scottish moorhens peck fastest on a grass/herb sward and slowest on water, with mud intermediate. The foraging pattern over spring, with a March peak, is influenced more by changes in pecking rates than by frequency of feeding activities. Because frequency of feeding and rates of pecking are both higher before sunset than after sunrise the hypothesis of equal feeding intensity at dawn and dusk is discarded. Factors possibly contributing to this result are: reduced energy expenditure at night; diurnal variation in the proportion of time taken up by other, especially social, activities; regulation of bodily heat losses; and diurnal variation in availability of invertebrates and in concentrations of nutrients in plants.
24054477|Ship rat (Rattus rattus) and mouse (Mus musculus) density and habitat use were estimated by snap trapping and tracking tunnels at Kaharoa in central North Island, New Zealand. Eighty-one ship rats were caught in an effective trapping area of 12.4 ha. Extinction trapping gave an estimated density of 6.7 rats ha1 (6.5-7.8 rats ha1, 95% confidence intervals). A linear relationship existed between ship rat trapping and tracking rates. Estimating the density of mice was impossible because trapping rates increased rather than decreased during the experiment. Comparisons of density from tracking and trapping rates of mice may be confounded by interference by rats, but this requires further investigation.
24060738|Descriptions of alpine climate in areas of high solar radiation are increasing, but there is a paucity of microclimate data for shaded alpine rock bluff ecosystems. These shaded systems are important because they represent plant habitats that are subject to unique climate drivers within the alpine ecosystem, but which are poorly characterised globally. We describe microclimate characteristics, including photosynthetically active radiation (PAR), atmospheric vapour pressure deficit, and air (Tair) and soil temperature (Tsoil) for three shaded alpine bluff sites at 13701800 m altitude on the South Island of New Zealand that support a diverse flora, including obligate shaded-bluff species of Pachycladon (Brassicaceae). Maximum instantaneous PAR at all study sites was generally < 100 mol m2 s1, or approximately 5% of full sunlight. Monthly mean Tair at the lowest altitude site ranged between 1.1C and +13.7C and declined to between 4.2C and +7.6C at the highest altitude site. Tsoil covaried with Tair, but with less extreme temperatures. The low-incident PAR of these bluff ecosystems suggests leaf temperatures at these sites are primarily regulated by air temperature and not by incident radiation. This study emphasises the need for information on the physiological response of these alpine plants to climate drivers, particularly in relationship to photosynthetic carbon uptake and respiratory carbon loss.
24056365|A simple deterministic accounting model was used to predict the rate at which a colonising stoat (Mustela erminea L.) population would reach specified sizes. The model was used to explore how the size and composition of the founder population, and the survival schedule to which it was exposed, influenced this rate. A function used in disease surveillance was modified to predict the number of tracking tunnels necessary to detect the presence of the colonising population with a specified degree of confidence. This function was used to assess how the detection characteristics of tracking tunnels (the probability that a stoat will enter a tracking tunnel), and the degree of certainty associated with detection, might influence the number of tracking tunnels required. Founder populations consisting of females and males established more quickly than those consisting of one or two pregnant females in the absence of males. Over and above the effects of founder population size and composition, survival schedules had little influence on the time establishing populations took to attain moderate sizes (<50 individuals). The number of tracking tunnels necessary to detect the presence of a newly establishing stoat population increased exponentially below a population size of about five. Both the detection characteristics of tracking tunnels and the degree of certainty associated with detection influenced the number of tracking tunnels necessary to detect stoats at low abundance.
24060864|Bone-seed, Chrysanthemoides monilifera ssp. monilifera (L.), is an environmental weed of coastal vegetation communities scattered throughout New Zealand. To assess the long-term implications for native forest regeneration in sites where bone-seed is present, we selected four study sites around Wellington, New Zealand, where bone-seed was abundant. We compared seed bank composition in bone-seed-invaded sites with nearby native forest patches, and monitored bone-seed and native seedling recruitment with and without control of mature bone-seed plants. We also tested the potential effects of fire on bone-seed recruitment in these communities by heating seeds prior to germination. Bone-seed, gorse (Ulex europaeus), and native species emerged from seed bank samples taken from bone-seed-invaded sites, but only native species and (less) gorse emerged from seed bank samples taken from native forest patches. Gorse germination was strongly promoted by heat but bone-seed germination was less affected by heat. Bone-seed seedling abundance increased dramatically following canopy removal, whereas native seedling abundance decreased dramatically. This suggests that disturbance of any form is likely to favour recruitment of bone-seed (and gorse) over native species, although in the long term, native seedlings can establish beneath the canopy of mature bone-seed plants. It is not yet known if, in the absence of further disturbance, regenerating native vegetation will eventually replace bone-seed in New Zealand.
24053565|Feral cats became established on Raoul Island some time between 1836 and 1872; the prey available to them included a great variety of nesting seabirds, few of which are present now, landbirds and kiore (Rattus exulans). Norway rats reached the island in 1921, providing additional prey for cats, but also another potential predator of seabirds. The diet of cats is described from guts and scats collected between 1972 and 1980. Rats are the main food, with land birds second in importance, and seabirds are now a minor item. More than 90% of the rats eaten by cats are kiore although more Norway rats than kiore are trapped. Eradicating cats from Raoul Island is feasible but because Norway rats too are important predators of birds on islands, it is likely that eradicating cats without also eradicating Norway rats will do little to restore the diversity of bird species on Raoul Island, although the densities of a few species now present might be increased.
24054672|A modern pollen-vegetation data set of 46 samples is presented from subantarctic Campbell Island, 600 km south of the New Zealand mainland. The sampled vegetation includes all major community types: maritime turf and grassland, sedge flushes, dwarf forest, scrub, cushion bog, tussock grassland, and high altitude graminoid turfs and tundra. Macrophyllous forbs - characteristic plants of subantarctic islands - are common throughout. Most taxa have highly restricted pollen dispersal, largely due to the short stature of the vegetation and the high proportion of insect-pollinated species. Percentages of pollen or spores of the dominant taxa have a significant positive correlation with the percent vegetation cover of the corresponding species, the exceptions being the widespread ferns Polystichum vestitum and Blechnum spp., and the ubiquitous macrophyllous forb, Bulbinella rossii. The relationship between the vegetation cover of a given taxon and its pollen representation was usually not strong enough to give confidence in a quantitative reconstruction based on pollen frequency alone. However, the broad vegetation groupings have characteristic pollen and spore spectra clearly related to the abundance of their dominant plant species. Detrended correspondence analysis of the pollen spectra grouped most sites according to their source vegetation type and generated a pattern similar to that of vegetation data analysed in a similar fashion in previous studies of the island. This study, together with recent work on Auckland Island pollen and spore representation, has resulted in a combined modern palynological data base of more than 100 sites for the New Zealand subantarctic islands.
24058151|The importance of possums as competitors with livestock for pasture is sometimes used as justification for possum control. Unfortunately a confusion of wet and dry weight values of pasture and daily consumption by possums appears to have resulted in a significant overestimate of the economic costs of possums as pasture pests. A correctly estimated daily dry matter intake of pasture by possums is 0.0144 kg pasture dry matter per possum per day. For a possum density of 1 ha1, this amounts to a reduction of about 1% of a stock unit ha1 year1. At higher possum densities, which often occur on farms adjacent to forest or scrub, losses would be correspondingly higher. A more direct way to measure possum impact on pasture production would be to use exclosures.
24060854|Invasive mammalian herbivores (e.g. deer, feral goats and brushtail possums; hereafter 'herbivores') are widespread throughout New Zealand and their control is important for conservation. In addition to known biodiversity benefits, it has recently been suggested that herbivore control could lead to measureable carbon gains when aggregated across a large area of conservation land. However, a significant amount of uncertainty exists regarding the potential effects of herbivore control on carbon, and the practicalities of successfully implementing such projects. This paper provides a general basis for managers and ecologists to design scientifically robust herbivore control projects for carbon gain in New Zealand. Although there are few direct data on changes in carbon sequestration rates following herbivore control, the data that are available suggest that effect sizes are likely to be small in magnitude, variable in direction, and to occur primarily though complex indirect mechanisms. The largest positive effects of herbivore control (carbon sequestration rate of 12 Mg C ha1 year1) are likely to occur in localised areas of highly palatable early-successional vegetation and high herbivore densities where control initiates rapid development of woody vegetation. Project location is therefore critical in determining the potential for carbon gain in herbivore control projects. A power analysis reveals that the ability to monitor changes in carbon stock using plot-based methods is limited to effect sizes of > 0.5 Mg C ha1 year1, as smaller effect sizes would require an impractically large number of plots (i.e. >100), and the financial and carbon costs of implementing the control and quantifying the effects are likely to outweigh any potential carbon gains. Although more research is urgently required to quantify potential gains, and the mechanisms that underlie them, our findings suggest that with careful site selection, implementation, and monitoring, control of invasive mammalian herbivores could sometimes provide carbon gains in certain areas of New Zealand's indigenous vegetation.
24052819|Samples of stomach contents were collected from 104 feral pigs (Sus scrofa) shot in the Urewera Ranges between December 1982 and June 1985. These were sorted into food items which were dried, weighed, and combined to give estimates of their annual and seasonal diets. Overall 51.8% of the pigs' food was obtained by foraging on the ground, 30.6% by rooting, and 17.6% by browsing and grazing. Their annual diet comprised 71.9% plant material and 28.1% animal material, the proportions being similar in all seasons. The fruits of tawa (Beilschmiedia tawa), hinau (Elaeocarpus dentatus), and supplejack (Ripogonum scandens) together made up one-third of the pigs' diet. These were taken seasonally, comprising 60% of their food in autumn, 42% in winter, and 25% in summer. The other major plant foods were the roots of supplejack, the fronds and stems of tree ferns (Cyathea spp.), and the rhizomes and roots of bracken (Pteridium esculentum); the first two foods were taken mainly in spring and summer. Earthworms and vertebrate carrion, especially the carcasses of brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecula), were the main animal foods eaten. It is suggested that periodic fluctuations in pig numbers may be associated with yearly differences in tawa and hinau fruiting.
24052790|The available literature on ragwort is reviewed. The ecological behaviour of ragwort can be explained by its tendency to act as a colonising plant, which is encouraged by pasture disturbance. Ragwort-infested pasture and closed pasture alternate with each other, and this is influenced by a number of environmental and management factors.
24053671|Pronounced differences between the vegetation of four islands in a low-alpine lake compared to an adjacent mainland site are attributed to browsing by feral goats. The herbs Anisotome haastii and Ourisia macrocarpa are significantly more abundant on the islands, where they form tall herbfields. The grass Hierochloe recurvata and the shrub Gaultheria crassa were also more common on the islands, and were absent at the mainland study site. It is suggested that these species may be useful indicators for assessing the success of feral goat control operations in low-alpine areas of the Paparoa Range.
24054647|Hihi (or stitchbird, Notiomystis cincta) is a rare honeyeater endemic to the North Island of New Zealand. Hihi were translocated from Little Barrier Island to Mokoia Island, Lake Rotorua, in 1994. Mokoia is a small (135 ha) island with secondary vegetation, so there was some doubt as to whether the island had sufficient diversity of fruit and nectar sources to support a hihi population. This paper reports data collected in the year after the translocation on the density, distribution and phenology of plants likely to be used by hihi. We address the following questions. (1) How many hihi food plant species are on Mokoia? (2) How are the food plant species distributed over the island? (3) Are there periods when flower and fruit sources are scarce and/or spatially confined? (4) How might the availability of fruit and nectar change with succession or additional planting? There was always a minimum of 2-3 species providing nectar or fruit used by hihi. Most (16/21) of the species providing nectar flowered during the hihi breeding period, from October-February, and most (9/16) of these were canopy tree species. The greatest diversity of fruit sources was from March-May. August-September stood out as the period with the lowest diversity of fruit and flower sources, followed by June-July. While there was no time of year when hihi clearly suffered from shortage of fruit and nectar, we suggest that they may be susceptible to shortages in future years at times when diversity of food sources is low. We recommend further planting that could make the island more suitable for hihi in the long term.
24054652|There are at least three hypotheses to account for the abundance of divaricating shrubs in New Zealand: 1) Ratites in the form of 11 species of moa, led to divarication for browse protection (Greenwood and Atkinson, 1977); 2) Divarication evolved as a microclimatic shield (McGlone and Webb, 1981); 3) Divarication evolved to aid leaves in light harvesting (Kelly, 1994). In Patagonia before human arrival, there were browsing mammals in addition to the ratite rhea. To examine the possible influence of the different grazing animals on the degree of divarication in Patagonian shrubs, a transect was established across Argentine Patagonia at c.40 S lat., from Andean forests to the shrub desert of the east, providing a rainfall gradient from 3000mm to 134mm annual precipitation. Divarication Indices of Atkinson (1992), IATK and Kelly (1994), IKEL were calculated for all shrubs encountered at 20 sites along this gradient. As IKEL gave zero values for four leafless shrubs, including the important Mulinum spinosum, this index was not further used for distributional analyses. IATK gave 18 species as fully divaricate (IATK > 14) and 8 as semi-divaricate (IATK <14). The highest values of IATK were lower than in New Zealand (Atkinson 1992), a function of a lower number of wide-angle branches (>90) in Patagonia. All except two species were spiny, as were most other shrubs on the traverse. Unlike the majority of divaricates in New Zealand which retain divarication in dense forest, none of the Patagonian shrubs are divaricate in forest and only two species divaricate in more open forest and scrub. Divaricate cover increased steeply along the traverse through drier, open forest and seral scrub. Once out of the seral scrub zone into arid country, a different suite of divaricate taxa was encountered. The diversity and cover of divaricates rose to reach a maxima at 134 mm annual precipitation. In Patagonia, divarication and spininess could be responses to the indigenous browsing mammals that are common in the semiarid and arid zones, or to climate.
24060781|Designing robust monitoring programmes for cryptic species is particularly difficult. Not detecting a species does not necessarily mean that it is absent from the sampling area. A conclusion of absence made in error can lead to misguided inferences about distribution, colonisation and local extinction estimates, which in turn affects where and how conservation actions are undertaken. It is therefore important to investigate monitoring techniques that reduce the non-detection rate of cryptic species. As habitat complexity plays an important role in the activity of bats within a forest, it was hypothesised that the amount of vegetative 'clutter' present at different heights within two different forest types affected the flight activity of lesser short-tailed bats (Mystacina tuberculata). This could affect detection of the species within different forest structures. To compare bat activity at three heights  top (22.025.0 m), middle (10.012.0 m) and bottom (1.52.0 m)  within a podocarp and a beech forest we used automatic bat monitors during January to March 2005. The number of bat passes was recorded at each height at two study areas within each forest and compared between forest types. The forest structure was described using the Recce method and vegetative cover estimated within the three height tiers sampled for bat activity. Within both forest types, the middle-level bat detectors logged the greatest amount of activity. However, differences between the forest types were most pronounced closer to the ground, where a high amount of activity was detected within the beech forest, and very little within the podocarp forest. This suggests that flight activity of lesser short-tailed bats may be affected by the level of vegetative clutter found at different heights within a forest. When designing monitoring programmes for lesser short-tailed bats, it is recommended that consideration be given to the forest structure and how this may affect detection of bat activity.
24054690|Two techniques for assessing possum (Trichosurus vulpecula Kerr) diet from stomach contents ("point-sampling" and "layer-separation") are described and compared. Point-sampling involves sieving stomach contents, systematically selecting fragments from the retained material then, identifying and weighing these. Layer-separation involves separation, identification, and weighing of the discrete layers apparent in most possum stomach contents. In 41 of 43 stomachs examined, we were able to separate discrete layers that nearly always comprised a single food item. To compare the two techniques both were applied to these 41 stomachs, with the point-sampling technique applied as two separate treatments using 1.4-mm and 2.0-mm sieves. There were major differences in diet composition estimates between layer-separation and point-sampling but with few differences between the two point-sampling treatments. Relative to layer-separation, point-sampling underestimated the proportions of food groups with small average fragment size and overestimated those with large fragment size. However, both techniques gave similar frequencies of occurrence for 8 of 10 food groups tested, although the apparent importance of foods based on ranking by frequency of occurrence did not accurately match the ranking based on percent composition data. Identification of material was usually easier and more complete with layer-separation than with point-sampling (i.e., there were virtually no unidentifiable stems and fibre after layer-separation). Layer-separation therefore appears likely to provide a simple technique for diet assessment in possums. Although the technique requires formal validation the existence of layers shows that there can have been little mixing (or digestion) of stomach contents, and therefore, that the layer-separation estimates cannot differ greatly from what was eaten. Techniques that involve sieving possum stomach contents appear to have serious limitations, but may be useful as a last resort when layers contain a mixture of foods, or for stomachs in which the layers are not distinguishable.
24054545|Flowering intensity and plant size were monitored in 155 Festuca novae-zelandiae individuals over four years to determine if trade-offs exist between inflorescence production and vegetative growth, and between inflorescence production in different years. Less than half of the population flowered in any one year, 36% of individuals did not flower at all, and only 17% flowered in all four years of the study. Mean number of inflorescences per individual per year varied from 1.54 to 5.53 (maximum = 85). No trade-offs were detected between flowering frequency and intensity; individuals that flowered more frequently also produced more inflorescences in each flowering episode. No trade-off was detected between current and future reproduction, rather flowering intensity was positively correlated between years. Growth, as measured by diameter increment, was positively related to flowering frequency and flowering intensity, both across all individuals studied and within 1m  1m plots. The presence of a positive relationship between growth and reproduction within plots argues against meso-scale variability in environment factors being the cause of the results from analyses involving all individuals. Clearly reproduction in F. novae-zelandiae does not incur a marked cost in growth or future reproduction. The assumptions underlying theoretical expectations of such trade-offs may not be valid for long-lived clonal plants such as F. novae-zelandiae.
24052796|Tag loss caused by an underlying Poisson process biases downwards the estimate(s) of the survival parameter(s) in a multi-sample single recapture census. A simple approximate correction is possible in this case. The less plausible assumption of homogenous tag loss is also examined and it is shown that the survival parameter(s) again can be simply corrected.
24056423|Major trends in forest successions following fires are identified for northern offshore islands of New Zealand. Data are from the author's observations over several decades, and published descriptions. Islands studied extend from the Cavalli group in the north to the Aldermen group in the south. Their original vegetation was largely destroyed by human-induced fires. Successions that followed were dominated for several centuries by pohutukawa (Metrosideros excelsa) or, for a shorter time, by kanuka (Kunzea ericoides). Compared with other seral species, pohutukawa retards the rate at which a diverse community can develop. This should be recognised when restoring an island that has lost most of its woody vegetation.
24052004|Results of field and laboratory experiments on decomposition of leaves and twigs of mountain beech (Nothofagus solandri var. cliffortioides) submerged in stream water are presented. Litter released up to 6% of its initial dry weight as leachate within 11 days of immersion. Subsequent losses of water soluble components from litter were constant at about 0.05% per day. Litter in 0.2 and 1.0 mm mesh bags kept in a mountain stream lost up to 65% of initial dry weight in one year. This loss rate is slower than that of any litter species reported to date but was partly due to the inclusion of twigs in the present study. Macrofauna colonising the bags did not affect weight loss. Nitrogen increases of up to 0.5% in litter are attributed to microbial colonisation. Although weight losses conformed to linear, positive and negative exponential, and logistic models, consideration of possible mechanisms of weight loss suggests that the latter represents the most accurate interpretation.
24054478|Brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) were offered Japanese quail (Coturnix japonica) eggs and day-old domestic chickens (Gallus gallus) during a captive feeding trial. Differences in feeding sign left by possums of differing sex, age class, and hunger were slight or absent. Possum feeding trial remains were also compared with remains of North Island robin (Petroica australis longipes) and North Island tomtit (Petroica macrocephala toitoi) eggs and chicks preyed on by ship rats (Rattus rattus) at videoed nests. Eggs fed on by possums were frequently crushed or had crushed shell margins whereas eggs preyed on by ship rats often had jagged shell margins and separate small shell fragments. Possums that ate chickens mostly left partially eaten carcasses with torn flesh, of which 50% were at least partially skinned. Ship rats left partially eaten birds with chewed flesh and bones but did not skin carcases. Possums rarely spat out shell pellets but produced feather pellets on eight of 13 occasions. Egg shell remains left by possums were indistinguishable from those left by ship rats for 11% of 72 shell remains examined from the feeding trial. Characteristic sign should enable possums and ship rats to be differentiated as predators after most but not all predations.
24058142|The European hedgehog is a significant predator species of rare and endangered ground-nesting birds in the riverbeds of the Waitaki Basin, South Island, New Zealand. Studies focusing on the movements and habits of this species have generally been limited to broad-scale radio-tracking studies or incidental trap-catch data. Within our study, we aimed to investigate the finer scale movement patterns of the hedgehog in relation to vegetation structure by using spool-and-thread tracking. We captured 30 hedgehogs (15 female, 15 male) within the study area, and spool-and-thread-tracked the movements of each over a single night. Only two of the 30 animals moved onto the gravel areas of the riverbeds where birds nest  hedgehogs may therefore not target birds' nests as a primary prey source, but rather as a secondary prey item. The movement paths were all non-random, and males demonstrated particular linearity in their tracks. This straighter and more directed movement may be due to more intensive mate search at this time of the year. We also assessed habitat use using a very high resolution habitat map (derived from Ikonos 4-m-resolution satellite image). Dense grassland was the most selected habitat type, perhaps because insect prey are at a higher density in this vegetation type. Hedgehogs (particularly males) also used boundaries of all habitat types significantly more than the centre of habitat patches. We found the spool-and-thread tracking technique does have limitations: (1) it could be inappropriate for animals exhibiting a significant escape response; (2) the data do not include a temporal dimension. However, these problems were not considered relevant for this study. Fine-scale studies such as this can provide increased power when investigating the ecology of species at a scale relevant to trap placement.
24054431|Exclosure plots established in three separate areas of kanuka (Kunzea ericoides var. ericoides) forest on south Kaipara spit in 1983 to assess the impact of introduced fallow deer (Dama dama) were remeasured in 1993. Kanuka shared canopy dominance with mapou (Myrsine australis), houpara (Pseudopanax lessonii) and mahoe (Melicytus ramiflorus ssp. ramiflorus) in relatively old forest in Lookout Bush, Woodhill, and dominated exclusively in two younger stands at South Head; Coprosma rhamnoides dominated understories throughout. At Lookout Bush cohort senescence continued in kanuka and began in mapou and houpara during the period of the study. Seedling thickets of kanuka self-thinned and were also likely to have been smothered by other species. Massive recruitment of mahoe occurred inside the exclosure, and continued in houpara, mostly outside. Mahoe and another generation of houpara are replacing the existing canopy in the absence of deer, and another generation of kanuka and houpara elsewhere in a partially stalled succession. Canopies are still intact at South Head, and there were no major changes in populations of canopy species. However, similar successional pathways are likely to occur there in future. An influx of highly palatable shrubs, e.g., coastal karamu (Coprosma macrocarpa) and hangehange (Geniostoma rupestre var. ligustrifolium), into collapsing forest in the absence of deer, and their scarcity or absence elsewhere, indicates continuing impoverishment of the understorey as well as the canopy by deer. In the long term it is likely that a variety of broadleaved trees will invade these stands and that tall semi-coastal forest, similar to extant relics on the dunes, will develop. In the meantime, the high conservation value of these stands suggests that a major reduction in the deer population - sufficient to allow natural successional changes to proceed unhindered - should be a conservation priority for the region.
24058103|Recent work has shown that resource accumulation is important in allowing mast-seeding plants to display occasional intense reproductive efforts. Anecdotal reports suggest that Chionochloa tussocks (bunchgrasses) on patch edges flower more frequently, and it has been proposed that this is due to greater resource availability. This study aimed to quantify any edge effect in flowering effort in Chionochloa populations at Mt Hutt in the Southern Alps of New Zealand, and to look for correlations with available soil nutrients. It also focused on how higher flowering along edges might affect seed predation rates in these plants, since seed predation is recognised as the likely cause of masting in this genus. As predicted, in a generally low-flowering year flowering was found to be most prolific on upslope edges across a range of altitudes with at least 43% of the flowering effort in the upslope plots being concentrated in the 20% of plot area within 2 m of the upper edge. Upslope edges also exhibited higher nitrate availability than did patch interiors or downslope edges. However, other measured nutrients did not show such a clear pattern. The elevated flowering effort on upslope edges does support the importance of a resource accumulation component in flowering effort. Higher edge-flowering did not significantly affect the distribution of the insect seed predators, suggesting the scale at which these insects move in search of oviposition sites is greater than the scale of the vegetation patches studied.
24058148|Species abundance, species richness, and ground cover were measured over 10 years on nine paired grazed and exclosure plots in short-tussock grassland in the early stages of invasion by Hieracium species. With and without grazing, H. pilosella and H. caespitosum increased markedly and H. lepidulum increased locally. In contrast, 50% of all other common species and species groups, and total, native, and exotic species richness declined significantly. Exclusion increased or had no effect on rates of increase in Hieracium species and rates of decline in short tussocks, and did not reduce rates of decline in other species. Exclusion had no effect on decline in native species richness, but mainly accelerated declines in total and exotic richness. Declines in 13 key vegetation variables were significantly predicted by increase in Hieracium abundance, suggesting competitive exclusion. With or without grazing, Hieracium species will become more dominant and other species will continue to decline. The effects of large herbivores on plant species diversity can often be predicted from site productivity. Our results indicate the need also to account for species origin, spatial scale, time, and exotic invasion.
24053255|During the last 1800 years there have been eight periods of increased erosion and alluvial sedimentation in New Zealand, which have generally decreased in magnitude towards the present. Throughout New Zealand, alluvium of all erosion periods contains abundant remains of plants as evidence of widespread destruction of vegetation during erosion periods. Indices of the relative magnitude of alluviation, and estimates of the damage to vegetation in the current Waipawa Period (since 1950), are applied to estimate the impact of earlier erosion periods. In 13 basins on the Ruahine Range, 2.6% of the 1950 vegetated area was destoyed by slope erosion during 1950-1986; on the Pouakai Range (Taranaki) it was 3.2%. On these ranges the areas of vegetation probably destroyed or damaged by erosion, alluviation and other factors are estimated as 17-18% in the Wakarara Period (180-150 years BP), 26% for Matawhero (450-330 years BP), 52% for Waihirere (680-600 years BP) and >52% for the pre-Kaharoa Period (1300-900 years BP). The vegetation of other areas, in both North and South Islands, would have been affected to greater or lesser extents. Large areas of vegetation along downstream channels, and on flood plains, were destroyed by alluviation in each previous erosion period. On alluvial sites the vegetation is closely linked to the history of the site  it may grow entirely on the new surface or be a mixture of survivors and new colonists. The accelerated erosion, alluviation and consequent vegetation destruction in erosion periods, were associated with atmospheric warming and increases of major rainstorms and floods; they did not coincide with either the colonisation or activities of humans or mammals. Since 1950, the impact of rainstorms and floods has increased, while mammal populations have been reduced. Local fauna is seriously affected when vegetation is destroyed, and some species may have become extinct, or very reduced because of erosion periods. The present national forest estate is dominated by relatively young forests which are still developing towards some condition of quasi-equilibrium. Even in the absence of humans and mammals this vegetation would be in a dynamic state of imbalance and change.
24053735|The dispersal, germination and establishment of the New Zealand Loranthaceae (Alepis flavida, Peraxilla colensoi, P. tetrapetala, Ileostylus micranthus and Tupeia antarctica) were investigated. The most important bird dispersers were tui, bellbirds and silvereyes. These birds appear to provide reasonably good quality dispersal: fruits were swallowed whole and the seeds later defecated in germinable condition; birds tended to visit plants for only 1-2 minutes and eat a few mistletoe fruits each time. Germinability of seeds ranged between species from moderate to high (17-96%). None of the study species of mistletoe germinated successfully unless the fruit skin (exocarp) was removed, by hand or by passage through a bird gut. While hand removal of the exocarp gave the same or higher percentage germination as bird removal, in the field bird dispersal is the only effective method of exocarp removal and is therefore essential. Dispersal was limiting at one of three sites studied (Craigieburn), suggesting that reductions in bellbird densities by introduced carnivores or competition for honeydew food sources may be indirectly affecting mistletoe reproduction. Establishment and survival of seedlings on host branches was low (15-28% depending on species to production of first independent leaves, 0-14% after two years). Survival of adults over one year of the study was 80% for Tupeia and 91-95% in the other species, showing that frequent establishment of seedlings is necessary for population maintenance. While disperser limitation does not seem to currently be a major threat to mistletoe survival, it must be considered as as possible factor both historically and in the future.
24052820|Autopsies on over 3000 rabbits collected between October 1980 and January 1983 provided information on the reproduction of rabbits in Central Otago. In contrast to year-round breeding elsewhere in New Zealand, reproduction was restricted to the period September-February. Distinct seasonal cycles occurred in both male and female fertility. Both sexes reached peak fertility when 12-17 months old. Female fertility is also related to carcass weight and condition. Most females (80%) experienced some pre-natal mortality, which accounted for about 30% of ovulations. Pre-natal mortality varied seasonally and was greatest in young (<6 months) and older (18 months) females. Despite a larger mean litter size (6.04), the annual productivity of 23.1 young per female is about half that of other areas in New Zealand, an effect of the restricted breeding season. Comparisons for most reproductive parameters highlight the effects of seasonally severe but predictable environmental conditions in Central Otago. Poisoning success will be greatest between March and August, when there are fewer territorial and social constraints on a rabbit's ability to encounter baits.
24054749|Insect communities from a range of successional vegetation stages on the central North Island volcanic plateau were characterised and compared using Malaise trapped beetle samples. Results were derived from sampling series conducted in a total of ten sites over three separate summers. Divisive classification successfully grouped samples according to four main habitat types despite temporal and spatial separation of samples within these groups. A four-week period in early summer was found to be optimum for sample discrimination according to the main vegetation types. Component species and the functional (trophic) structure of samples showed a relationship with generic habitat types as well as reflecting attributes of the individual sites sampled. The most useful information was derived from the identity of the biological entities rather than simply from numerical relationships. Use of this pragmatic methodology has potential to improve our ecosystem understanding and the sustainable management of the dominant area of terrestrial biodiversity provided sufficient attention is given to standardisation, particularly of taxonomy.
24052680|In a cultural-ecological perspective of New Zealand pastoralism the amount and form of energy supplements at different stages of pastoral development are characterized and prospects for sustainability discussed. The history of the pastoral exploitation of the tussock grasslands of South Island, New Zealand is reviewed with particular attention to physiognomic changes brought about by early fire and grazing. Current changes in farming on high country mark an end to the exploitative phase of use of the tussock grasslands and promise a transformation of some existing grassland communities into entirely different associations. The opportunities and needs for biological reservation of tussock grasslands are re-examined in the light of the changes that have been already induced and of the development now occurring.
24056429|The grass genus Chionochloa in New Zealand exhibits a high degree of mast seeding synchronised across species and habitats. Masting appears to be maintained by a predator satiation mechanism involving three pre-dispersal seed- and flower-feeding insects. It is not clear how important each of the three insects is in favouring the masting strategy. An undescribed cecidomyiid fly (Diptera: Cecidomyiidae) may be particularly important, since its conspicuous larvae are found throughout the South Island of New Zealand on many Chinochloa species. Despite the wide distribution of the larvae, it is not clear whether they are conspecific. Since the species is undescribed and adults are rarely seen, there may be different species on different host plants or in different geographic areas. We used Inter Simple Sequence Repeats (ISSRs) to determine whether cecidomyiid larvae found in four different areas in the South Island and on four species of Chionochloa exhibited molecular variation consistent with the presence of a single species of fly. Cluster analysis using Unweighted Pair-Group Method using Arithmetic averages (UPGMA) based on 38 ISSR fragments showed no clusters based on either host plant or geography. Analyis of Molecular Variance (AMOVA) analyses showed statistically significant differentiation among both host populations and geographic populations, but most of the molecular variation was explained by individual variation within geographic regions and host-plant populations. Thus, the molecular variation in the cecidomyiid larvae suggests the presence of a single species of cecidomyiid. Our data, combined with previous population surveys, suggest that the cecidomyiid is the most widespread of Chionochloa seed predators and may provide the selective benefit for the synchronous flowering observed among different Chionochloa populations in New Zealand.
24058099|The diet of 871 stoats (Mustela erminea) caught within the Okarito Kiwi Sanctuary, South Westland, New Zealand, between 2001 and 2004 was studied by assessment of gut contents. Stoat and ship rat (Rattus rattus) captures were used as a measure of relative abundance over time, and rat and mouse (Mus musculus) abundance was indexed using tracking tunnels between spring 2002 and winter 2004. There were major increases in rat captures in spring of 2002 and again in spring of 2003. Stoat captures peaked in the following summers, as rat captures declined. Rats and invertebrates were major components of stoat diet, occurring in 41% and 52% of guts respectively; birds were found in 19%. Changes in these percentages with time indicated that stoats shifted their diet from rats to birds and invertebrates as rat abundance (as indexed by tracking tunnels) decreased. The greatest impact on native species is therefore likely to be when rat abundance is declining after major irruptions, as the increased consumption of birds and invertebrates overlaps with the periods of highest stoat abundance.
24058159|Totara-matai forests are an under-represented forest type in Westland, relative to their original extent, and require protection and enhancement where possible. This study examined the regeneration of totara on gorse-covered river terraces of the Whataroa and Waiho Rivers, on a site grazed by cattle at Whataroa, and ungrazed sites at both locations. Totara is regenerating prolifically at all sites. Tall-seedling densities were significantly higher at the grazed Whataroa site than at the ungrazed Whataroa site. Conversely densities of small seedlings were significantly higher at the ungrazed Waiho site, with the majority of seedlings occurring on raised surfaces created by rafted logs or occasional silt patches, than at either of the Whataroa sites where seedlings established on the ground. Sapling and tree densities were similar at both Whataroa sites, but significantly greater than at the Waiho site. There was a significant relationship between the density of saplings and trees with terrace age at the Whataroa sites. Gorse cover and seedling density were significantly related at both ungrazed sites, but not at the grazed site. Grazing and gorse cover both appear to have roles in totara regeneration on river terraces. The implications of current management for future forest development are discussed, and it is considered that these areas warrant designation as areas of significant indigenous vegetation because of their conservation potential.
24052602|This paper describes the first visit to Jacquemart Island in the south of the subantarctic Campbell Island group. The island contrasts with the main island by the absence of introduced grazing mammals, rats (Rattus spp.) and feral cats (Felis catus), and in the dominance of palatable plant species. A survey of the main vegetation communities was made and bird species seen were recorded. Specimens of an endemic weta (Notoplectron campbellensis) were collected.
24055342|In a Festuca novae-zelandiae short tussock grassland in South Island, New Zealand, we tested the propositions (1) that present regional trends in vascular plant species-richness in tussock grasslands are independent of current pastoral management, and (2) that grazing retards the invasion and dominance of non-native species, particularly where soil resources are not limiting. Sheep and rabbit-grazed, ungrazed, ungrazed+fertilised and ungrazed+irrigated treatments were applied in a replicated experiment that was sampled annually from 1988 to 2000. Native species richness and native forb cover decreased, and exotic grasses increased in all treatments, with no significant differences between grazed and ungrazed treatments in either trends or final cover. Exotic species richness decreased in the ungrazed, ungrazed+fertilised and ungrazed+irrigated treatments but showed no trend in grazed vegetation. Cover of native tussock grasses and the tall shrub Carmichaelia petriei decreased in the grazed treatment, remained steady in the ungrazed treatment and increased in the ungrazed+fertilised and ungrazed+irrigated treatments. Native subshrubs decreased in the grazed, ungrazed+fertilised and ungrazed+irrigated treatments but not in the ungrazed treatment. The invasive forb Hieracium pilosella increased with time in grazed, ungrazed, and ungrazed+irrigated treatments, but after 10 years it decreased in the ungrazed+fertilised treatment and its cover was negligible there after 12 years. Grazing appeared to reduce the cover of tussocks and certain woody species, and we conclude that current management affected vegetation trends. Grazing did not decrease the dominance of exotic species, or maintain native species richness at a higher level than in ungrazed vegetation. There was limited recovery of taller native species with grazing removal alone. However, grazing removal plus 12 years of resource enrichment promoted the growth of native tall shrubs and tussocks and did not result in physiognomic dominance by exotic species. Succession towards taller native tussock-shrubland communities may be an appropriate goal for conservation management of short tussock grasslands, and nutrient enrichment in the absence of grazing may be an appropriate management device in some circumstances.
24054693|The measurement of parasitism rates of wasp nests at Pelorus Bridge, New Zealand, at different distances from the initial release point suggests that the mean displacement of the parasitoid has increased by 1 - 1.5 km y1 from 1988 to 1993. Since average parasitism rates within this radius at any given site show little trend over time, this suggests an approximate 3-fold increase in the total parasitoid population each year, two-thirds of which is devoted to dispersal and one-third to maintaining local populations.
24058186|The Department of Conservation established tree fuchsia (Fuchsia excorticata) monitoring in the Tararua Range in 1994 to determine the effectiveness of large-scale (66 000 ha) possum control for protecting fuchsia. We present results from data collected from 39 permanent plots on fuchsia tree stem survival, growth, and canopy condition between 1994 and 2004 using standard permanent plot and foliar assessment methods. Plots were established in four areas where possums were controlled or 'treated' by aerial application of sodium monofluoroacetate (1080) poison, and in one untreated area. More fuchsia stems died in the untreated area (29.8%) than in the treated areas combined (mean of 7%) over the duration of the study. Stem mortality was offset by a mean 3% ( 1.1% SEM) increase in fuchsia basal area in the treated areas, whereas basal area declined by 15% in the untreated area. Stem mortality occurred largely in smaller size-classes (<21 cm diameter) in all areas. Mean foliar cover showed a greater decline (42%) in the untreated area than in the treated areas (range 0 to 26%). Within two of the four treated areas, foliar cover declined as the interval between possum control operations lengthened. Our results clearly show that the conservation goal of preventing 25% mortality of tree fuchsia between 1994 and 2004 was successfully achieved in upland possum control areas.
24054764|Sodium monofluoroacetate (1080) is a highly toxic vertebrate pesticide that has been widely used for possum and rabbit control in New Zealand since the 1950s. Because of its importance in pest control and the highly toxic nature of this compound, its environmental fate, persistence, non-target impacts and general toxicology have been and continue to be extensively studied. A series of in vitro (cell culture) and laboratory animal studies (in rats and mice) have recently been undertaken to update the regulatory toxicology database for 1080. Results of three different, complementary tests indicate that 1080 is not mutagenic, and therefore unlikely to cause cancer. Results of developmental toxicity studies indicate that 1080 causes developmental defects in rats when pregnant females are exposed to relatively high doses (0.33 and 0.75 mg kg1 day1) on a daily basis during the period of organogenesis (from days 6 through to 17 of gestation). The developmental abnormalities observed were mild skeletal effects: slightly curved forelimbs, and bent or "wavy" ribs. These results highlight the highly toxic nature of 1080 and the need for extreme care when handling this pesticide during the manufacture and distribution of bait, but do not preclude its proper use. The morphological changes in foetuses observed in the recently completed rat developmental toxicity studies are likely to raise concern regarding the exposure of humans (particularly pregnant mothers) to 1080 through contamination of waterways after the aerial sowing of 1080 baits. However, ongoing monitoring (199098) of waterways from areas where 1080 baits have been aerially sown confirms that there is negligible risk of human contact with 1080 through this route of exposure.
24056366|We have been studying the social behaviour and ecology of pukeko (Porphyrio porphyrio) for over five years at a study site in the lower Taieri River, Otago New Zealand. After an application of rabbit poison in 1995 and the illegal release of rabbit haemorrhagic disease (RHD) in 1997, there was strong anecdotal evidence that rabbit (Oryctolagus cuniculus) abundance on and around our study site had been substantially reduced. In a retrospective analysis, we compared predation rates on the nests of pukeko over a four-year period (1991-1994) before the application of these measures and one year after the release of RHD (1998). Significantly more nests were predated in 1998 than in previous years. While we recognise a number of possible explanations for this result, we suggest that one of the most plausible reasons for the increase in predation rates is a shift in diet by the rabbit specialist predator, the Australasian harrier (Circus approximans).
24058185|Mid to late 20th century expansion of Dracophyllum scrub into tussock grassland on subantarctic Campbell Island has been attributed to the collective effects of global warming, cessation of farming in 1931, and continued grazing by feral sheep. To determine the importance of these, we dated the timing of scrub expansion by aging 241 Dracophyllum plants in 17 plots chosen to sample the range of environments this shrub/small tree occupies on Campbell Island. Three plots, in lowland, well-drained, locations were dominated by large, old Dracophyllum that had established between 1846 and 1940. Virtually all shrubs in the remaining plots had established after 1940, with peaks in 1970 and 1985. The pattern of establishment does not coincide with any marked change in the temperature regime, although a prolonged period of relatively dry winters (c. 19701990) coincides with a late surge of regeneration on very wet sites. The removal of feral sheep from different parts of the island at different times is also unrelated to the pattern of establishment. In contrast, Dracophyllum spread follows farm abandonment in 1931 when regular burning ceased, suggesting that Dracophyllum is invading sites from which it was excluded by fire. However, the earliest reports from the mid 19th century indicate that tussock grassland was previously the dominant vegetation cover on the island, with limited Dracophyllum scrub. It is possible that the reduction of the dense tussock grasslands by fire and grazing in late 19thearly 20th century opened a regeneration window for Dracophyllum scrub to spread once burning ceased.
24058219|Fire occurs relatively frequently in beech (Nothofagus) forest in drought prone eastern areas of the South Island, New Zealand. Because beech is poorly adapted to fire, and is slow to regenerate, forest is normally replaced by scrub or grassland. Seeding was investigated as a means of restoring mountain beech (N. solandri var. cliffortioides) forest after fire destroyed 300 ha of forest at Mt. Thomas, Canterbury, in 1980. A mixture of mountain beech, Leptospermum scoparium and other small tree and shrub species was sown within a year of the fire in the presence and absence of pasture species as a cover crop, and fertiliser. Seeding of mountain beech and L. scoparium was successful, but other species were of limited success. Competition from pasture species inhibited establishment of all native species. Fertiliser increased L. scoparium plant numbers in the first year but had no other beneficial effect on establishment of native species. Leptospermum scoparium provided a dense shrub cover in plots where the native species were sown in the absence of pasture species, but mountain beech had begun to overtop the shrub canopy by 20 years after seeding. Browsing by insects or small animals in the first 2 years is suggested as the main cause of mortality in mountain beech. Mountain beech seeded at 1.4 kg/ha resulted in about 1800 saplings/ha at age 20. It is suggested that seeding the wider burn area more than 2 years after the fire would have been unsuccessful because of competition from herbaceous species, especially Agrostis capillaris, which rapidly invaded the burnt area. A strategy is outlined for establishing mountain beech over large areas when limited quantities of seed are available.
24058181|The relative abundance of ship rats (Rattus rattus), Norway rats (R. norvegicus), and Pacific rats (R. exulans), was measured in four vegetation types on Stewart Island/Rakiura, over six consecutive seasons. Ship rats were found in all four vegetation types and dominated in podocarp-broadleaf forest and riparian shrubland. Norway rats were most common in subalpine shrubland and Pacific rats dominated in manuka (Leptospermum scoparium) shrubland. Analysis of micro-habitat affinities for the three species showed that ship rats were habitat generalists. Norway rats were associated with plants of damp sites. Pacific rats showed a significant positive relationship with increasing amounts of the ground cover wire rush, (Empodisma minus). Reasons for the observed habitat use on Stewart Island could include physiological adaptation to cold and wet conditions in Norway rats; the avoidance of predation or inter-specific competition by Pacific rats; and possibly preference for more structurally complex vegetation types by ship rats.
24056325|The role of backcountry huts as focal points for weed establishment and spread into New Zealand's national parks has received little attention. In this study we describe the pattern of weed spread around Takahe Valley Hut, Murchison Mountains, Fiordland National Park. Established in 1948, the hut is located at 900 m a.s.l. at the ecotone between Nothofagus forest and valley floor shrubland/grassland. We recorded the distribution of vascular plants in quadrats (110) placed by restricted randomisation around the hut, and measured relative irradiance and distance from the hut. Nine exotic species, mostly grasses, were recorded, the most frequent being Agrostis capillaris (34%). The majority of occurrences of exotic plant species were located in the immediate vicinity (less than 5 m) of the hut but two exotic species (Agrostis capillaris and Dactylis glomerata) ranged more widely. Exotic species were present in well-drained shrubland and grassland but did not extend far into Nothofagus forest or onto infertile wetlands. The percentage of exotic species in quadrats declined significantly with distance from the hut. There was no linear relationship between the percentage of exotic species and relative irradiance. When forest quadrats were excluded, the number of native species in quadrats was negatively correlated with the number of exotic species, suggesting competitive displacement of native species by exotics in non-forest habitats. Long-term persistence of most exotic species at this site depends on physical disturbance and nutrient enrichment associated with human activities at the hut site. However the maintenance of this species pool has provided sufficient propagule pressure for some exotic species to disperse into the wider area. Weed accumulation around huts can be reduced by locating huts in vegetation types that are more resistant to invasion, and maintaining facilities to eliminate local weed infestations.
24056281|The effect of honeydew density on arthropod community structure was investigated in the Nothofagus forest of Nelson Lakes National Park, New Zealand. Pitfall trapping revealed no community response to honeydew density, whereas sticky trapping showed the community composition of trunk-dwelling arthropods varied along a honeydew gradient. Mycetophilidae, Staphylinidae, Pteromalidae and Margarodidae were classified as high honeydew biased, while Diapriidae and Platygasteridae were non-honeydew biased. Arthropod distributions within a forest are not uniform, as a result of honeydew patchiness.
24055313|Making use of existing fences as ready-made exclosures, this study aimed to assess the long-term effects of cattle grazing on forest margins. Results indicated: 1) that cattle browsing and trampling has an impact on vegetation species composition, structure and regeneration; 2) that the effects of a particular grazing regime may take many decades to dissipate; and 3) that the impacts of cattle change with stock intensity. Some plant species appeared to be highly palatable to cattle and only occurred on sites without cattle. Such species included pate (Schefflera digitata), broadleaf (Griselinia littoralis), pigeonwood (Hedycarya arborea), supplejack (Ripogonum scandens), mahoe (Melicytus ramiflorus), milk tree (Streblus heterophyllus), lancewood (Pseudopanax crassifolius) and hen and chickens fern (Asplenium bulbiferum). A small group of plants appeared to regenerate better under cattle than in their absence, particularly mountain horopito (Pseudowintera colorata) and prickly shield fern (Polystichum vestitum). A few species were encouraged by cattle at one site but suppressed by them at another: kahikatea (Dacrycarpus dacrydioides), wheki (Dicksonia squarrosa), Coprosma rhamnoides and Blechnum fluviatile. The impact of cattle on most other plant species was not discernible. The results of this study, while somewhat equivocal, indicate that future grazing licences in South Westland should restrict stock to low numbers and be confined to already modified sites where damage to conservation values would be minimal.
24052606|The application of two types of model to aphid populations is discussed, with particular reference to the lime aphid (Eucallipterus tiliae L.). The role of detailed simulation models is briefly reviewed and it is shown that a model of the lime aphid developed in Britain can represent the differing population behaviour of the same species in New Zealand. A much simpler, general herbivore/plant model is then applied to the lime aphid in Britain and gives as good agreement with observed data as did the detailed simulation model.
24052817|About 30 female and juvenile Himalayan thar (Hemitragus jemlahicus) were observed over 2 years on a 200 ha study area. At dawn, thar were at low altitudes and most were feeding. They ascended during the morning to spend the middle of the day resting at high altitudes. In the afternoon they descended again, with increasing feeding activity, to reach low altitudes at dusk. The vertical movement was 450 m in summer and 150 m in winter. The proportion of the day spent feeding was highest in November-February and lowest in August-September. Resting behaviour was more frequent in March-May and August-October than at other times. The proportion of the day spent standing increased threefold during June-July. The feeding pressure during daylight on four vegetation associations showed that tall snow tussock grasslands at high altitudes were likely to be the most susceptible to modification. Lower altitude associations, such as short tussock grasslands and matagouri scrub, received more intense feeding pressure during spring, but were rarely used in winter.
24056328|The brown teal or pateke (Anas chlorotis) is an endangered endemic duck that has declined greatly throughtout its range in the last 120 years but about which there is little dietary information to inform the species' management. We studied the diet of brown teal from six populations (most data were from Great Barrier Island, with additional samples from Northland, Little Barrier Island, Kapiti Island, Mana Island and Karori Wildlife Sanctuary) using feeding observations, gut and faecal analyses. Brown teal had a diverse diet for a dabbling duck: 78 taxa were recorded, including terrestrial, freshwater and marine invertebrates, fungi, and terrestrial and freshwater vegetation. Based on gut content analysis, the most frequently occurring foods were Cyperaceae nuts, white clover leaves, cased caddisfly larvae, beetles, earthworms, gastropods and bivalves. Faecal analysis and visual observations showed marine molluscs to be abundant in the diet in intertidal areas. The use of pastures by much of the present-day population may make teal vulnerable to starvation during dry summers.
24054549|Predation of yellow-eyed penguin (Megadyptes antipodes) chicks may be reduced by removing stock around penguin breeding sites because long grass may reduce lagomorph abundance and hence small mammal predators. This study tests this hypothesis in the South Island, New Zealand. The abundance of lagomorph faeces (mainly rabbit Oryctolagus cuniculus, but some European hare Lepus europaeus) was used as an index of relative abundance of lagomorphs at 16 penguin breeding sites in winter 1991 and 37 sites in 1992/93. There was no evidence that lagomorph pellet abundance was reduced where vegetation was ungrazed. Lagomorph sign was widespread throughout ungrazed areas indicating that the entire ungrazed area and not merely the edge was used by lagomorphs. Lagomorph pellet abundance was higher on sand dunes than elsewhere. Retirement from grazing by stock may help protect and provide nesting habitat for penguins, but does not decrease lagomorph abundance close to nesting sites. It is not yet known whether high lagomorph abundance leads to increased or decreased predation on penguin chicks. The habitat should not be modified ostensibly to reduce lagomorph abundance until the effect on predation is known.
24058208|We studied the roosting ecology of the long-tailed bat (Chalinolobus tuberculatus) during the spring-autumn months from 19982002 at Hanging Rock in the highly fragmented landscape of South Canterbury, South Island, New Zealand. We compared the structural characteristics and microclimates of roost sites used by communally and solitary roosting bats with those of randomly available sites, and roosts of C. tuberculatus occupying unmodified Nothofagus forest in the Eglinton Valley, Fiordland. Roosting group sizes and roost residency times were also compared. We followed forty radio-tagged bats to 94 roosts (20% in limestone crevices, 80% in trees) at Hanging Rock. Roosts were occupied for an average of 1 day and 86% were only used once during the study period. Colony size averaged 9.8  1.1 bats (range 238) and colonies were dominated by breeding females and young. Indigenous forest, shrubland remnants and riparian zones were preferred roosting habitats. Communally roosting bats selected roosts in split trunks of some of the largest trees available. Selection of the largest available trees as roost sites is similar to behaviour of bat species occupying unmodified forested habitats. Temperatures inside 12 maternity roosts measured during the lactation period were variable. Five roosts were well insulated from ambient conditions and internal temperatures were stable, whereas the temperatures inside seven roosts fluctuated in parallel with ambient temperature. Tree cavities used by bats at Hanging Rock were significantly nearer ground level, had larger entrance dimensions, were less well insulated, and were occupied by fewer bats than roosts in the Eglinton Valley. These characteristics appear to expose their occupants to unstable microclimates and to a higher risk of threats such as predation. We suggest that roosts at Hanging Rock are of a lower quality than those in the Eglinton Valley, and that roost quality may be one of the contributory factors in the differential reproductive fitness observed in the two bat populations. The value of introduced willows (especially Salix fragilis) as bat roosts should be acknowledged. We recommend six conservation measures to mitigate negative effects of deterioration of roosting habitat: protection and enhancement of the quality of existing roosts, replanting within roosting habitat, provision of high quality artificial roosts, predator control, and education of landowners and statutory bodies.
24053586|The fish prey consumed by New Zealand fur seals (Arctocephalus forsteri) was investigated by analysis of faeces collected between February and August at sites on the east and west coasts of South Island, New Zealand. Twelve species were identified from otoliths recovered from faeces. Lanternfish (Symbolophorus sp. and Lampanyctodes hectoris), the most frequent fish prey, comprised 79% of all otoliths, followed by anchovy (Engraulis australis) at 12%, ahuru (Auchenoceros punctatus) with 3.9%, and hoki (Macruronus novaezelandiae) at 3.7%. Of these species only hoki is commercially important. Regional and seasonal differences in the proportions of species were evident, and the results are compared with those from previous studies.
24054745|There is an increasing requirement to breed durable resistances to woolly apple aphid (WAA) into apple cultivars. Genetically diverse apple plantings have been established in New Zealand with one aim to identify new sources of resistance to this pest, and also to allow the computation of parameters of genetic interest. Such computations are hindered by the uneven distribution of the pest in the orchard. The spatial distribution of WAA was investigated using local trend surfaces to examine large scale patterns, and point process analyses to check for the presence of small scale clumping. Large scale patterns in WAA distribution were found which could be attributed to the degree of exposure of the trees, and clumping was also detectable. The experimental design was found to adequately accommodate these spatial patterns. The application of the point process analysis to other ecological situations, and manners in which it could be extended, are discussed.
24052793|The distribution of banded rail habitat use in a saltmarsh was measured by recording the rate at which their footprints accumulated. The relationships between habitat use, time of day, state of the tide, and 15 environmental parameters, were investigated using multivariate analysis. Banded rails were most active in the morning and evening and immediately after a tide. They did not venture far from cover and their activity was greatest at low levels on the shore, and amongst certain vegetation types. The patterns of habitat use are consistent with the rails being most active at times and places where their prey were most readily available. The absence of banded rails from the south of the South Island may be related to the dominance of Leptocarpus similis in saltmarshes there.
24060778|Two indigenous small tree and shrub species, kanuka (Kunzea ericoides) and manuka (Leptospermum scoparium), have potential as reforestation species in New Zealand as they are forest pioneer species that can invade grassland naturally from present seed sources. The aim of this study was to determine if establishment of kanuka and manuka from seed in grassland distant from stands of these species might be constrained by lack of appropriate mycorrhizal fungi. Both species were grown in an unsterilised grassland soil from a low-productivity montane site assumed to be devoid of appropriate mycorrhizal fungi and inoculated with sterilised or unsterilised O-horizon or mineral soil from beneath three kanuka and three manuka communities expected to contain such fungi. Inoculation with unsterilised O-horizon soil improved kanuka biomass by 3692%, depending on the source of the inoculant. Inoculation did not improve manuka biomass. No ectomycorrhizal infection was observed on either kanuka or manuka in samples examined under binocular microscope. The biomass response by kanuka to inoculation may be due to introduction of more effective arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi from kanuka communities or possibly to the introduction of soil microorganisms. Testing of inoculation under field conditions will be essential to determine whether establishment of either species in grassland soil by seeding is seriously constrained by lack of appropriate mycorrhizal fungi or soil microorganisms.
24060633|Once widespread, Cook's scurvy grass (or nau, Lepidium oleraceum) is now confined to a few offshore populations. Classed as nationally endangered by the New Zealand Department of Conservation, populations of Cook's scurvy grass are threatened by a number of factors, including introduced herbivorous insect species such as the white butterfly (Pieris rapae) and white rust infection caused by the oomycete Albugo candida. In this paper, we investigate the occurrence of white butterfly on Cook's scurvy grass and possible interactions with the white rust infection on the northernmost of the Matariki Islands in the Firth of Thames, New Zealand. We found that larger host plants were more likely to be infested with white butterfly. The occurrence of white butterfly eggs and larvae also decreased as levels of white rust increased. Twenty-eight percent of the white butterfly larvae collected and reared in the laboratory were parasitised by the braconid wasp species Cotesia rubecula. We also reared a hyperparasitoid belonging to the super-family Chalcidoidea from one of the parasitoid cocoons. Further studies on the trophic interactions between Cook's scurvy grass, Albugo candida and white butterfly and its parasitoids could improve the understanding of the threats posed by plant pathogens and insect herbivores to populations of Cook's scurvy grass, which in turn may lead to new management strategies for conservation.
24053601|Collections of gannet regurgitations at most of New Zealand's gannetries allowed the identification of major components in the gannet diet and an estimate of the total annual consumption of the most important prey species. Major species were pilchard (Sardinops neopilchardus), anchovy (Engraulis australis), saury (Scomberesox saurus), and jack mackerel (Trachurus novaezelandiae).
24052767|Over a 3-year period, 1183 brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) were live-trapped in 125 ha of mixed hardwood forest and adjacent pasture in Westland, and 50 were radio-tracked for up to 14 months. Foraging movements between forest and pasture were much longer than previously reported. Twenty-eight percent of males and 18% of females denning c. 1000 m into forest were trapped on pasture at least once a year. These values were higher for possums denning closer to pasture, but dropped abruptly at distances beyond 1000 m and ceased beyond 1300 m into forest. Radio-tracking confirmed the trapping results and showed that possums travelled to and from pasture within the same night. Age had little influence on travel to pasture, but males were twice as likely to travel as females. Pasture travel peaked in summer and autumn, coinciding with maximum pasture growth. Possums usually travelled less than 300 m beyond the forest edge, but foraged occasionally to 1300 m. Possums moved vertically rather than horizontally across steep terrain, thereby minimizing travel between different food sources in the vertically stratified forest. Forest residents travelling furthest were those with dens 600-1000 m into forest. Consequently, control of possums in Tb-problem areas will be required over forest at least 1 km in from forest-pasture margins. Changes in farm management that reduce possum-cattle interactions are also desirable.
24060741|Introduced mammalian predators are a major threat to New Zealand's wildlife, including bats. Controlling these predators using traps and poison baits can reduce their impact on bat populations. However, lesser short-tailed bats (Mystacina tuberculata) are potentially susceptible to toxins used for pest control in New Zealand forests because of their broad diet and habit of feeding on the ground. Therefore, the risk of secondary poisoning should always be assessed before new toxins are used in areas inhabited by lesser short-tailed bats. We measured survivorship of a sample of lesser short-tailed bats monitored before, during and after deployment of the first-generation anticoagulant toxin pindone in the Eglinton Valley, Fiordland, during late winter and summer 20092010. Pindone-laced cereal baits were deployed in bait stations from September to late December 2009 in an effort to control rats (Rattus spp.). Communal roosts of the one lesser short-tailed bat colony in the valley are located entirely within or immediately adjacent to the area poisoned. Minimum number alive was determined for the sampled bat population after monitoring the occupancy of colonial roosts by individually PIT-tagged bats through the study period. Survivorship of bats was high throughout the monitoring period, with 319 of 322 bats (99%) recorded in the pre-monitoring period (August) known to be alive in October 2009 and 312 of 322 bats (97%) known to still be alive in January 2010. We conclude that lesser short-tailed bats did not consume pindone baits and that their survival was probably enhanced by rat control in the study area.
24052787|High deer numbers in northern Fiordland in the 1960s significantly changed forest understorey composition. The density of woody plants in the understorey was reduced in some areas by as much as 50%, and preferred plants became less abundant than those seldom eaten. However, the impact of deer and wapiti varied between forest types. Seral communities and silver beech forests at low altitudes in the unmodified Milford/Bligh Sound area had high proportions of preferred plants in the understorey, and these were the types that were more modified by browsing pressure than those growing at high altitudes or on poor soils. A resurvey of the Wapiti, Doon, and Glaisnock catchments in 1984/85 showed that densities of woody plants in the forest understorey had increased on average by at least 75% after a c. 80% reduction in deer numbers since earlier surveys (1969 and 1975). Woody food plants highly preferred by deer were rare in most forest types in 1969, but were present in all types by 1984 and had increased in density by as much as 300-400%. However, recovery was still largely confined to understorey tiers <75 cm high and most of the recovery had occurred since 1975. Proportions of highly preferred species in the understorey of these forests had not reached those recorded in unmodified forests in the Milford/Bligh Sound area in 1969.
24058098|We describe the recovery of an 88-m2 area of sooty shearwater breeding habitat on Northeast Island, The Snares, New Zealand, during the eight breeding seasons after it was completely destroyed by excavation in December 1996. Burrow entrance density did not differ between the destroyed site and three comparison sites one year after the event. We detected breeding attempts of shearwaters in the season following disturbance, but burrow occupant density recovered more slowly, perhaps because the overall population density was declining over the same period. Burrow occupant density did not differ between the destroyed site and comparison sites within five breeding seasons of disturbance.
24052391|Foods of the Australian Brush-tailed opossum, Trichosurus vulpecula, were identified from stomach contents of 360 opossums collected from May 1975 to May 1976 in Ashley State Forest, Canterbury, New Zealand. Plant species eaten were identified with the aid of reference cuticles prepared from known plant species collected from the study area. Thirty different foods were identified, but only seven were eaten extensively. These were broom (Cytisus scoparius) leaves and flowers, blackberry (Rubus fructicosus) leaves and fruit, Pinus radiata pollen cones, gorse (Ulex europaeus) flowers, and grasses. The opossums showed seasonal preferences for certain food species. Pine pollen was preferred during late winter and spring, blackberry leaves during summer, and grasses and seeds during autumn. Broom leaves formed a large proportion of the diet in all seasons. Huhu beetles (Prionoplus reticularis) and nematoceran larvae were also eaten. There was no evidence in Ashley Forest of opossums causing economic damage to the pine trees.
24055317|In New Zealand, as elsewhere, research on rare species has been dominated by autecological studies of individual threatened species. Limitations of this approach are that it involves no comparison with related common species which may have similar traits, and that the minimal sample size prevents generalisation about causes and consequences of rarity. We report on experimentally determined growth and reproductive traits of 10 rare and common Acaena (Rosaceae) species from two taxonomic sections (sect. Ancistrum and sect. Microphyllae). We examined the relationship between rarity or commonness and relative growth rate, mode of vegetative expansion, morphology/presentation of reproductive structures and reproductive allocation. Rarity and commonness were defined according to geographic range size, measured as the number of 10-km grid squares containing at least one record of the species. There were tendencies across both taxonomic sections for species with large range size to have higher relative growth rates and in section Microphyllae, faster lateral expansion. Among section Ancistrum species, common species tended to produce inflorescences for a shorter period and held their capitula higher above the canopy, but other reproductive attributes showed little association with range size. In section Microphyllae all reproductive traits tended to be positively associated with range size. This was mainly due to the single very common species having high fecundity. The lack of strong patterns among our results may reflect insufficient sample size or that the rare species represent different types of rarity.
24052392|Weddell seals (Leptonychotes weddelli) have been killed annually since 1956 at Scott Base, McMurdo Sound, Antarctica, to provide food for the resident husky dogs. Between 1970 and 1976 personnel of Antarctic Division, DSIR, killed 399 seals, recorded information on their physical characteristics and collected jaws and reproductive organs (females only). Data made available to the Zoology Department, University of Canterbury, for analysis included 321 seal data-sheets, 186 lower jaws and 103 sets of female reproductive organs. The overall sex ratio of seals killed was 1:1. Mean ages of males ranged from 6.75 years (1972) to 13 years (1975), with an overall mean of 10.4 years; mean ages of females ranged from 7.82 years (1973) to 12 years (1974) with an overall mean of 9.87 years. In the four seasons with adequate sample sizes (15+ animals) the proportion of animals 10 years and older in the samples ranged from 28% (1972) to 65.7% (1976). The mean body lengths of males declined from 260.63 cm in 1970 to 239.8 cm in 1976. Lengths of females fluctuated from year to year between values of 258.25 cm (1974) and 249.28 cm (1975). The thickness of subcutaneous fat on the chest of males in the years 1974-76 ranged from 4.43 cm to 5.16 cm; that of females varied from 4.98 cm to 5.78 cm. The overall pregnancy rate was 65%, with a range from 55% (1974) to 76.5% (1976). Comparison with data from seal kills in 1957, 1962-64 and 1966-68 (Stirling, 1971a) suggests that in the 1970-76 period the Weddell seal population of eastern McMurdo Sound was close to stability, but fluctuating slightly from year to year, probably in response to changes in availability of food and other resources.
24052812|Ecological restoration is defined as active intervention and management to restore biotic communities that were formerly present at a particular place and time. Examples are given from both New Zealand and overseas of a variety of different restoration projects. The possibility is raised of replacing some animal species extinct in New Zealand with related living forms from other countries. The arguments for devoting resources to ecological restoration include creation of educational assets, aesthetic benefits, and scientific opportunities. They also include the maintenance of native plants and animals for environmental repair and enhancement work, and genetic conservation at the species and infraspecific levels. Thus ecological restoration is a means of restoring biological diversity to depleted landscapes and, as a consequence, can increase the variety of ways in which people appreciate nature. Ecological restoration of lost biotic communities should be seen as complementary to the protection of those remaining: both activities are needed in a comprehensive approach to nature conservation.
24058150|Leptospermum is one of only three New Zealand genera that are colonised by ectomycorrhizal (EM) fungi, and L. scoparium is one of the very few New Zealand species that can be colonised by both arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) and EM fungi. This study examined AM and EM colonisation on L. scoparium growing within AM grassland ecosystems or adjoining Nothofagus forest in the Rakaia catchment, Canterbury. Very low AM colonisation was found (<4%) in all samples, while EM colonisation ranged from 7 to 55% of root length colonised. These results contradict an earlier report that L. scoparium is mostly colonised by AM fungi. We suggest the montane environment of the study sites would favour EM rather than AM colonisation. EM colonisation was higher in mature plants than in saplings. Lowest EM colonisation (715%) was recorded on root samples that were from either young or mature plants occurring as separate individuals in grassland distant from other indigenous EM species, while highest colonisation (4955%) was recorded on samples from mature closed canopy L. scoparium stands, irrespective of distance from other indigenous EM sources.
24054513|Possum leaf dief from 1976 to 1989 in the Orongorongo Valley was compared with the diet recorded from four previous years, using faecal analysis. There were large differences in the proportions of species eaten in different seasons and between different years. There was little overall change in the proportion of the main diet tree species, Metrosideros robusta and Weinmannia racemosa, and seasonal increases or declines in one were usually balanced by opposite changes in the other. However, the results of a study of forest composition in the same area showed that living stems of both species declined substantially in abundance, the former mostly before 1978. Melicytus ramiflorus maintained both an important contribution to the diet and its stem density in the forest. The lianes Metrosideros fulgens and Ripogonum scandens both increased their proportion of the diet, but no data were available on their abundance in the study area. At present browse levels, Weinmannia racemosa will become extinct locally, and Metrosideros robusta more rare, especially if drought and higher than average possum densities coincide. Given their large contribution to possum diet, the decline of these species will have a significant effect on possum feeding habits, including increased browsing pressure on Melicytus ramiflorus, Ripogonum scandens and Metrosideros fulgens. The trend for formerly less palatable tree species to replace those previously important in the diet will continue, with consequent changes in forest species composition.
24053653|Vegetation on 5 km (c. 100 ha) of the braided bed of the Orongorongo River, Wellington, was sampled in March from 1973 to 1990. The riverbed has become aggraded since an earthquake in 1855. Surface water covered little of the riverbed; Callitriche stagnalis was the only common vascular aquatic plant. Most grasses and dicot herbs were adventive. The scabweed Raoulia tenuicaulis was the commonest dicot. The extent of plant cover was measured on 300 circular plots (radius 1.5 m); it ranged between years from 5% to 22%, depending on the severity of floods. The number of plots with little vegetation varied widely, independently of plant cover. Plots with a sandy substrate had most plant cover. Much wind-blown sand accumulated beneath established vegetation. Patterns of early succession, which relied on available seed, were largely dictated by floods and droughts. If not disturbed for 20-25 years, succession invariably led to a temporary dominance of kanuka (Kunzea ericoides), with or without manuka (Leptospermum scoparium).
24054650|Assays for the toxin sodium monofluoroacetate (compound 1080) were undertaken on arthropods collected from toxic baits after a brushtail possum (Trichosorus vulpecula) control operation in Nothofagus forest in central North Island, New Zealand. The 1080 concentrations measured (mean 57 g g1, max 130 g g1) are considerably higher than those reported by other researchers who collected arthropods randomly after control operations. These data, together with published information on sensitivities to 1080, as well as diet and consumption rates, were used to calculate the median lethal doses of arthropods that have fed on 1080 baits for a number of vertebrate insectivores found in Nothofagus forest. The results indicate small insectivores that feed on, or close to, the ground (e.g., tomtit Petroica macrocephala, robin P. australis, hedge sparrow Prunella modularis, and the short-tailed bat Mystacina tuberculata) may be vulnerable to secondary poisoning. For instance, a tomtit will receive the median lethal dose of 1080 from 1.32 g (i.e., 14.7% of its daily food intake) of arthropods containing 57 g g1 of 1080. Because of their greater sensitivity to 1080 poisoning, bats are at much greater risk; a short-tailed bat will receive the median lethal dose of 1080 from as little as 0.04 g (0.7% of its daily food intake) of arthropods containing 57 g g1 of 1080.
24055301|By summarising ecological publications over the last 30 years, this paper provides an assessment of the amount and focus of New Zealand ecological research with respect to land tenure. While the number of published articles that deal with private land has increased over the last 30 years, the majority of New Zealand ecological research publications (65%) still focuses on public conservation lands, despite these only accounting for c. 30% of the land area. Even with the increasing emphasis in ecological research on private land there is still a need to better understand both the distribution of indigenous biodiversity and the interactions that occur between land management and indigenous biodiversity on private land. Such research is essential if we are to sustain indigenous biodiversity in lowland New Zealand.
24060704|Stoats (Mustela erminea) are a significant pest in New Zealand. A critical aspect of their management is the ability to identify individuals in order to estimate abundance or to determine the origin of residual animals after control, particularly as the trap-shy nature of stoats reduces the utility of trapping to gain this information. We investigated non-invasive 'capture' methods as an alternative to live-trapping or removal methods for estimating stoat abundance. First we determined whether sufficient variability exists at six microsatellite DNA loci to reliably identify individuals in the potentially bottlenecked, introduced stoat populations of New Zealand. In December 2001 we conducted a 7-night pilot field experiment using a modified hair-tube design, where we obtained a total of 64 hair samples. Sufficient DNA was extracted from 36 hair follicles to genotype a total of 51 samples. DNA quality declined if samples were left in the field for several nights before being collected, and daily checks proved best for maximising the quality of DNA obtained, while minimising the risk of multiple 'captures' of stoats. Conclusions were that non-invasive molecular sampling is likely to be a viable technique for estimating population density of stoats in New Zealand beech forest but that additional variable loci are required.
24054675|Mountain stone weta (Hemideina maori) on the Rock and Pillar Range in the South Island, New Zealand, are found primarily in cavities under flat rocks on isolated outcrops or 'tors'. We marked 66 adult weta on one tor and 30 adults on an adjacent tor and recorded their location during the summer and for the following three years to obtain baseline data on survival, longevity, dispersal, and movement within tors. It was not uncommon for adult weta to live for two to three years. Most marked weta were resighted at least once, usually under the same rock. Few weta moved further than the rock adjacent to where they were first captured and only one dispersed to a neighbouring tor. On one tor, a relatively stable group of 68 females and 2 males was resighted during most of the summer period under one large rock. An analysis of our mark-recapture methodology and results indicates that H. maori may be an appropriate species for investigation population structure in a metapopulation context as well as local mate competition.
24060617|Mycorrhizal colonisation of Douglas-fir and Corsican pine seedlings in soil from knuka and mnuka dominated shrublands in Canterbury was studied using a bait plant technique. Soil cores were collected from 10 sites of each shrubland, transferred to a glasshouse, and sown with seed of both tree species. Mycorrhizal colonisation was examined after 19 weeks' growth. Overall, seedlings of Douglas-fir were larger than those of Corsican pine, but the amount of Corsican pine seedlings that were colonised (56%) was about twice that of Douglas-fir (29%). Across the sites, 761% of Douglas-fir and 1681% of Corsican pine seedlings had mycorrhizas. Colonisation of the two tree species was correlated in soil cores from knuka stands, but not from mnuka stands. Colonisation was significantly greater in knuka than mnuka stands in Douglas-fir, but not in Corsican pine. knuka stands were of a lower overall elevation than mnuka stands and had higher levels of soil available phosphorus. Both factors may have contributed to the greater mycorrhizal colonisation of Douglas-fir in knuka stands. Differences in colonisation between sites could be partially explained by the proximity of sources of spores of mycorrhizal fungi. It is concluded that low numbers of mycorrhizal propagules may constrain mycorrhizal formation in environments distant from a spore source, but are ultimately unlikely to preclude it, or limit successful seedling establishment.
24053183|Seedlings of fifteen species of shrubs and small trees, commonly found in open sites and early stages of secondary succession, were grown in a glasshouse under light intensities of 16% and 66% full daylight, and their growth parameters (height, number of leaves, dry weight, mean relative growth rate) recorded. Three species from open habitats, Coprosma robusta and Dodonaea viscosa, and an adventive shrub, Crataegus monogyna, had the highest mean relative growth rates in 66% daylight and 16% daylight, but their ranking for other parameters (e.g. height) was variable. Acer pseudoplatanus and Plagianthus regius had particularly fast height growth. Carpodetus serratus was the fastest growing species of early successional vegetation on weakly to moderately leached soils, and it grew as well in 16% daylight as in 66% daylight. Many species had significantly faster height growth in 16% daylight, e.g., Melicytus ramiflorus and Pittosporum tenuifolium, and several species had faster height growth rates overall, in 16% daylight, e.g., Myrsine australis, Melicytus ramiflorus, and Pittosporum eugenioides. Griselinia littoralis, from moderately to strongly leached soils, had the slowest height growth rates in both light levels. All species had lower root:shoot ratios and a greater proportion of dry weight in leaves in 16% daylight. Such responses may contribute to the slow establishment of these species in secondary vegetation experiencing summer drought in the seedlings' rooting zone. Growth patterns are also likely to be adaptations to factors other than light, particularly soil fertility. There is some evidence that seedlings of the earliest successional and less shade-tolerant species, especially those from weakly leached soils, grew more rapidly than those from later-successional vegetation and edaphically harsher sites. Some shade-tolerant species benefit from slight shade which concurs with their later entry into secondary vegetation.
24055293|The National Vegetation Survey (NVS) databank is designed to safeguard the investment of millions of dollars spent over the last 50 years collecting, computerising and checking New Zealand vegetation data and to optimise the potential knowledge gains from these data. Data such as these can be synthesised across a range of spatial and temporal scales, allow novel ecological questions to be considered, and can underpin land management and legal reporting obligations. The NVS databank builds largely on the base of data collected under the auspices of the New Zealand Forest Service from the 1940s to 1987. In more recent years, it has incorporated data from Protected Natural Area (PNA) surveys and from new and remeasured plots in a range of ecosystems collected by staff of, among others, the Department of Conservation, Landcare Research, regional councils and universities. The databank currently stores data from approximately 14 000 permanent plots, 52 000 reconnaissance descriptions and PNA plots, and 14 000 timber volume plots measured in the 1940s and 1950s. Ecosystems that are best represented are grasslands in montane and alpine areas and indigenous forests. Geographic coverage is widespread but patchy. As the NVS databank continues to develop and grow, a range of data management issues are being addressed. These include (i) developing mechanisms to meet the needs of both data users and data providers and incentives to encourage individuals and organisations to deposit data into the databank, (ii) ensuring that metadata are adequate to allow raw data to be interpreted, and (iii) ensuring that the data stored meet set quality standards. In the future, the databank will take advantage of changing technology to best meet the needs of data users and providers. Further information about the NVS databank can be obtained from www.landcare.cri.nz/science/nvs.
24054547|Heteroblasty, changes in vegetative phenotype during ontogeny, is unusually common in the New Zealand flora. Some feature(s) unique to the New Zealand situation must have influenced the evolution of this strategy. Similarities were examined between the ontogenetic changes in phenotype and growth strategy in Elaeocarpus hookerianus, Carpodetus serratus and Pseudopanax crassifolius. Variation in hypothesised light capture efficiency of juvenile and adult forms can be related to changes in the light environment that these growth forms experience. Heteroblasty is hypothesised to have evolved as a result of the change from a low light intensity environment below the canopy of high altitude conifer/broad-leaved forests, to a high light intensity environment above the canopy. The differences in architecture between juvenile E. hookerianus and C. serratus on the one hand, and P. crassifolius on the other hand, are likely to be related to their adaptation to heterogeneous moderate light intensity and homogeneous low light intensity, respectively. The divaricate form characteristic of many New Zealand shrubs may have arisen following the development of heteroblastic trees with a divaricate juvenile, and the subsequent loss of the adult state. This paper provides hypotheses which future research can scientifically test.
24054671|Rakiura Maori annually harvest sooty shearwater (Puffinus griseus) chicks from islands in Foveaux Strait and adjacent to Stewart Island, New Zealand. Chick availability and the number of chicks harvested were estimated during the 1994 and 1995 seasons on Poutama (Evening Island). Burrow entrance densities estimated using circular plots were significantly higher in 1994 (0.45  0.03 m2) than in 1995 (0.41  0.03 m2). A similar burrow entrance density (0.45  0.04 m2) was obtained in 1995 using a transect sampling technique. The number of usable burrows estimated using circular plots in 1994 and 1995 was 387 508 and 337 732 respectively. Of these, chicks occupied 24%  6% in 1994 and 29%  4% in 1995. It was estimated the muttonbirders harvested 13-24% (15 722) of the chicks present on Poutama in 1994 and 17-28% (22 092) in 1995. Muttonbirders targeted areas of the island with higher chick density and less fallen stems. Excluding chicks rejected by the muttonbirder ( 750g), harvested chicks were significantly heavier and had less down than randomly encountered chicks. If larger heavier chicks are more likely to return and breed, then the preference for these chicks by muttonbirders would affect predictions of harvest impacts.
24052603|In a rock shelter on Tawhiti Rahi, one of the Poor Knights Islands, northern New Zealand, shells of Placostylus hongii (some of which are broken and charred) occur in a hearth and on the floor in association with adze-worked wood. This provides conclusive evidence that the flax snail was eaten by the prehistoric Maori. While some may have been eaten raw, it seems most Placostylus were cooked on the embers of a fire, then the shell broken open and the meat extracted. Powell (1938) suggested that the populations of P. hongii on the Poor Knights and some other northern offshore islands were accidentally introduced there in leaf mould by the prehistoric Maori when transplanting karakas from the mainland. This previously unrecorded exploitation of Placostylus for food, however, provides an incentive for the Maoris to purposely transfer these snails to the offshore islands and possibly also around other parts of Northland.
24054667|Changes in the vegetation of Flat Top Hill, a highly modified conservation area in semi-arid Central Otago, New Zealand, are described four years after the cessation of sheep and rabbit grazing. Unusually moist weather conditions coincide with the four-year period of change in response to the cessation of grazing. Between 1993 and 1997, the average richness and diversity (H') of species increased, and the average proportion of native species decreased significantly. The vegetation was significantly richer in exotic annual and perennial grass species, exotic perennial forbs, exotic woody species and native tussock grasses in 1997 than in 1993. Eight response guilds of species are identified. Most "remnant" native shrubs and forbs were stable, in that they remained restricted to local refugia and showed little change in local frequency. However, taller native grass species increased, some locally, and others over wide environmental ranges. Rare native annual forbs and several native perennial species from "induced" xeric communities decreased, and this may be a consequence of competition from exotic perennial grasses in the absence of grazing. The invasive exotic herb Sedum acre decreased in abundance between 1993 and 1997, but several other prominent exotic species increased substantially in range and local frequency over a wide range of sites. Exotic woody species, and dense, sward-forming grasses are identified as potential threats to native vegetation recovery.
24052774|The diet of the house mouse (Mus musculus L.) was studied in an exotic pine (Pinus radiata D. Don) and an indigenous kauri (Agathis australis Salisb.) forest near Auckland from 1976-1977. Stomach contents of 594 and 117 mice collected by snap trapping in the Woodhill and Hunua Forest respectively revealed an omnivorous diet consisting largely of adult arthropods, lepidopteran larvae and seeds. In the Woodhill pine forest adult arthropods and lepidopteran larvae were the main foods throughout the year, while seed generally became important between spring and autumn. In the Hunua kauri forest, adult arthropods and seed were important foods all year round. Kauri seed largely prevailed in the stomach contents during April and May. Predation by mice on birds' nests was not evident.
24052822|The diet of the Stewart Island brown kiwi at Scollay's Flat, southern Stewart Island was determined by analysis of 146 faeces collected during 11 field-trips from September 1982 to October 1984. A variety of invertebrates and a small quantity of plant matter were represented in the faeces. The four invertebrate groups excluding Annelida, that contributed most soft tissue dry matter to the sample were Lepidoptera (36%), Coleoptera (21%), Arachnida (19%) and Hemiptera (10%). Circumstantial evidence suggests that the habit of the Stewart Island brown kiwi of foraging by day is partly a response to low invertebrate biomass in the island's nutrient-poor soils.
24060896|Factors influencing detection probability in line transect distance sampling were investigated to estimate the abundance of four common farmland birds on 12 sheep & beef farms in the South Island of New Zealand. Our primary aim was to evaluate the necessity of employing distance methods to correct for heterogeneity in detection probability. Detections of skylark Alauda arvensis, blackbird Turdus merula, song thrush Turdus philomelos, and Australian magpie Gymnorhina tibicen were recorded using ten 500-m unbounded line transects on each of 910 visits, and modelled using multiple covariate distance sampling methods. Covariates of detectability played a strong role in model fitting, but showed few consistent directional trends within species. Increased woody vegetation cover on farms greatly decreased detectability, while few seasonal or geographical effects were found. No detectability differences were found between farms using certified organic, integrated management or conventional farming systems, indicating that bird population dynamics might be compared between systems using simpler index counts. However, unless detectability parameters can be standardised to a high degree within a survey, we recommend the use of analysis methods that incorporate heterogeneity in detection probability.
24060763|Understanding the evolutionary history and biogeography of the New Zealand alpine flora has been impeded by the lack of an integrated model of geomorphology and climate events during the Late Miocene, Pliocene and Pleistocene. A new geobiological model is presented that integrates rock uplift age, rate of uplift and the resulting summit elevations in the Southern Alps (South Island) during the last 8.0 million years with a climate template using the natural gamma radiation pattern from the eastern South Island Ocean Drilling Program Site 1119 that covers the past 3.9 million years. This model specifically defines the average treeline in relation to mountain height, allowing predictions as to the timing of the formation of the alpine zone and other open habitats. This model predicts open habitats such as rock bluffs, tussock grasslands and riverbeds would have been available from about 4.03.0 Ma, coinciding with the initiation of summit uplift and a cooling climate providing an opportunity for the evolution of generalist alpine and open-habitat herbs and shrubs. Alpine habitats began to form at about 1.9 Ma and were a permanent feature of the Southern Alps from about 0.95 Ma. Specialist alpine plants confined to alpine habitats can have evolved only within this period once the alpine zone was persistent and widespread. Bog habitats are likely to date from the Late Miocene (c. 6.0 Ma), and the specialist bog species would have evolved from this time. Molecular-clock dates for DNA sequences from species of specialist alpine habitats, generalist open habitats, and bog habitats are consistent with predictions made on the basis of the model.
24056427|The exotic sand-binder Ammophila arenaria (marram grass) has displaced the native sedge Desmoschoenus spiralis (pingao or pikao) from many of New Zealand's coastal dunes. This study explores the possible role of drought as a mechanism promoting marram invasion and pingao displacement. The response of the two sandbinders to conditions of increasing soil water deficit was compared in a four-week pot trial. Water potential, relative water content and stomatal conductance were measured every 34 days on randomly selected individuals from a control and two drought treatments. Desmoschoenus exhibited significant signs of water stress within eight days, while Ammophila did not show significant signs of stress until day 18. Only 5% of Desmoschoenus individuals recovered after four weeks without water, compared with 80% of Ammophila. Although pot trials have limited applicability, these results suggest that Ammophila is relatively tolerant of desiccation compared with Desmoschoenus. This may give Ammophila a competitive advantage over Desmoschoenus during drought events, potentially resulting in the displacement of the native sedge.
24060841|Faecal pellet counts are commonly used as indices of lagomorph abundance but uncertainty over variation in decay rates among sites has led to most researchers recommending the use of pellet accumulation rates in previously cleared plots rather than the simpler and quicker method of counting uncleared plots. We use data from cleared and uncleared 0.1-m2 brown hare pellet plots at six sites in the central North Island of New Zealand to test the reliability of the two methods. The sites varied considerably in hare pellet density and also varied in altitude and rainfall, but the initial cleared count was extremely tightly correlated with the subsequent pellet accumulation rate (r = 0.987) suggesting there is minimal bias from differential decay rates in uncleared plot counts. Our results show that the simpler and less time-consuming uncleared-plot method is an adequate index of hare density across a range of hare densities and climates and is not unduly biased by differential decay rates. This should simplify the work of land managers interested in assessing relative abundance. At one site (the area round Manson Hut on the Kaweka Range) where the plots were followed for a year in a variety of habitat types, there were strong seasonal changes in hare abundance (peaking in summer and declining through winter), and strong habitat preferences for exotic grasslands and grasslandherbfield mixes, while pure herbfield, and particularly rocky scree and southern beech forest were not favoured. We estimated that based on published defecation rates of hares, population densities at our six sites varied from 0.03 to 3.93 hares per hectare and that they consumed between 1.4 and 188 kg ha1 of biomass annually.
24055334|: This paper examines, theoretically, how dispersal affects the viability of brown kiwi populations in protected areas of different size. Brown kiwi are threatened by introduced mammalian predators in mainland forests and are likely to persist only in managed forests where predators are controlled. In each protected area, the kiwi population will function as a net source, with an outflow of juveniles into the adjoining forest and minimal backflow into the reserve. Computer simulations show the minimum area of forest required for population viability increases non-linearly as the mean dispersal distance of juveniles increases. Preliminary measurements of the mean dispersal distance of brown kiwi in the wild suggest kiwi populations are unlikely to be viable in protected areas of less than 10 000 ha. Our estimate of the forest area requirement for viable populations of brown kiwi agrees with those derived by earlier workers using biogeographic techniques.
24054544|Predator-free offshore islands play an important role in the conservation of many of New Zealand's endemic species. Takahe (Porphyrio mantelli) have small populations established on four offshore islands and although hatching success is lower than that of the wild mainland population in Fiordland, juvenile and adult survival is high and populations are growing exponentially. Accurate estimates of home range size and potential carrying capacities are therefore essential for the future management of the population as a whole. The mean home range size of takahe pairs in one study population on Mana Island (217 ha) was 2.8  1.9 ha. The island was assessed for current and maximum available area for takahe and the potential carrying capacity was estimated at 22 - 53 pairs. Current and maximum available areas were also used to calculate carrying capacities on each of three other islands using two different estimates of mean home range size for Maud Island (7 - 34 pairs) and Kapiti Island (5 - 33 pairs) and one estimate of home range size for Tiritiri Matangi Island (25 pairs). A model of the population growth of takahe on islands predicted that estimated carrying capacities would be reached between 1997 and 2009. The urgency of planning to make use of the considerable potential of island populations of takahe is stressed.
24058178|Determining whether animals select some habitats over others provides basic information about how animals meet their requirements for survival and reproduction. Habitat selection is therefore an important component of conservation research. Studies involving the release and establishment of threatened species on island refuges can be particularly insightful because breeding pairs should be able to select habitat of the highest quality within the range availabel. This study uses GIS technology to investigate the spatial distribution of breeding territories in relation to overall habitat availability of two threatened passerines, South Island saddlebacks (Philesturnus carunculatus carunculatus) and Stewart Island robins (Petroica australis rakiura) two years after their release onto predator-free Ulva Island. Both species established breeding territories around the periphery of the island in coastal forest fringe habitat and away from mature forest in the interior of the island. Compositional analysis suggested that both species prefer dense, fringe-type habitat with open ground cover and deep litter layers and avoid more mature forests, especially with moss cover. Thus habitat structure is likely to be more important for both species than plant-species composition. However, the possibility exists that the preference of coastal fringe habitat could represent an 'ecological trap', where habitat preference does not correspond to better quality habitat in terms of reproductive fitness. It will be useful to continue monitoring saddlebacks and robins to obtain data on survival and fecundity as the density of birds increases, and breeding pairs are forced to establish territories in what is presently perceived to be less preferred habitat in the interior part of the island.
24053584|The amount of conspicuous canopy dieback in all central Westland southern rata-kamahi forests east of the Alpine Fault, between 500 m altitude and treeline, was assessed and mapped from aerial photographs taken in 1984-85 and verified by aerial reconnaissance of selected areas in 1988. At least 20% of all canopy trees, predominantly southern rata (Metrosideros umbellata) and Hall's totara (Podocarpus hallii), were dead in 1984-85. Major catchments with their headwaters east of the Alpine Fault comprised 78% of the study area and were worst affected (5%-44% canopy mortality). Because affected trees decay and eventually disappear from the canopy, the extent of visible dieback underestimated total canopy depletion, particularly where mortality occurred more than c. 15 years ago. Geographical variation in canopy dieback reflected the intensity and duration of browsing by the introduced brush-tailed possum (inferred from patterns of invasion from their liberation sites) and the influences of forest composition and timing of dieback. Although 29% of the forests showed light dieback (<10% mortality), only 11% had not experienced heavier past dieback and could be classified as having canopies largely unmodified by possums. Such widespread and continuing forest depletion, and declining possum control effort over the last decade, indicate the urgent need for a coordinated rata-kamahi forest conservation strategy, involving long-term possum control and monitoring in representative tracts.
24056159|Has the science of ecology fulfilled the promises made by the originators of ecological science at the start of the last century? What should ecology achieve? Have good policies for environmental management flowed out of ecological science? These important questions are rarely discussed by ecologists working on detailed studies of individual systems. Until we decide what we wish to achieve as ecologists we cannot define progress toward those goals. Ecologists desire to achieve an understanding of how the natural world operates, how humans have modified the natural world, and how to alleviate problems arising from human actions. Ecologists have made impressive gains over the past century in achieving these goals, but this progress has been uneven. Some sub-disciplines of ecology are well developed empirically and theoretically, while others languish for reasons that are not always clear. Fundamental problems can be lost to view as ecologists fiddle with unimportant pseudo-problems. Bandwagons develop and disappear with limited success in addressing problems. The public demands progress from all the sciences, and as time moves along and problems get worse, more rapid progress is demanded. The result for ecology has too often been poor, short-term science and poor management decisions. But since the science is rarely repeated and the management results may be a generation or two down the line, it is difficult for the public or for scientists to decide how good or bad the scientific advice has been. In ecology over the past 100 years we have made solid achievements in behavioural ecology, population dynamics, and ecological methods, we have made some progress in understanding community and ecosystem dynamics, but we have made less useful progress in developing theoretical ecology, landscape ecology, and natural resource management. The key to increasing progress is to adopt a systems approach with explicit hypotheses, theoretical models, and field experiments on a scale defined by the problem. With continuous feedback between problems, possible solutions, relevant theory and experimental data we can achieve our scientific goals.
24056163|The influence of micro-habitat on stoat (Mustela erminea) and rat (Rattus rattus) capture success was explored using trapping data collected from large scale predator control operations at the Okarito and Moehau Kiwi (Apteryx spp.) sanctuaries. Generalised linear models were used to explore the relationship between micro-habitat predictors and predator kill trapping records from individual trap sites. Our results suggest that micro-habitat information can provide useful predictors of rat and stoat capture success. Evidence from other studies and the current trapping regime provided a reasonable explanation for why some micro-habitat variables were or were not significantly associated with capture success. However, model complexity and the subjective trapping layout made interpretation of some variables challenging. Model results varied considerably between sanctuaries for the same species. We recommend reducing the number of micro-habitat variables to better reflect biological mechanisms; where possible recording variables continuously; nesting small-scale spatial variables within large-scale spatial variables; and standardising micro-habitat variables to allow model comparisons between trapping areas. Future research also needs to disentangle the effects of trapping edge and biased topographical layout from trap capture success. Good study design would resolve many of these problems. Results should help generate new and/or prioritise existing hypotheses for more focused research in the future.
24060667|A common question that arises when considering the results from a well-designed sampling programme for a rare or invasive species is: 'Sampling has failed to detect a species that could have been present, so can we calculate the probability that it truly was absent during the sampling period?' Noting that this invokes a Bayesian view of 'probability', which therefore must be accepted if the question is to be answered in the affirmative, we present a method of addressing it.
24066768|Habitat use of a forest bird community was studied in temperate rainforests in South Westland, New Zealand between 1983 and 1985. This paper examines foraging methods, feeding stations and seasonal variations in the availability and use of food types and provides a brief review of the subject. The forest bird community was comprised of a large number of apparently generalist feeders and few dietary specialists. However, the degree of foraging specialisation should not be viewed only in relation to the food types consumed. The 18 species studied differed from each other in the number of plant species used, their preferred feeding stations and method of feeding. Most importantly, the omnivorous birds exhibited varying degrees of sequential specialisation in their diets as they switched between specific food sources from season to season. The information on foraging provides the first step towards predicting the impacts of logging important food trees.
24060742|Host bark traits are known to affect the characteristics of epiphyte communities in forests worldwide; however, few investigations of such relationships have been undertaken in New Zealand forests. By examining the trunk epiphyte communities on four co-occurring forest tree species (Agathis australis, Dacrydium cupressinum, Knightia excelsa and Vitex lucens) representing a range of bark characteristics, we sought evidence that bark traits may shape these communities. Sampling was conducted on tree trunks in the Waitakere and Hunua ranges in the Auckland Region. As expected, the rough but lightly shedding bark of Vitex lucens was found to support many epiphytes, whereas the coarsely flaking bark surface of Dacrydium cupressinum supported few epiphytes. Conversely, despite bark with a smooth texture that sheds in large flakes, and contrary to the suggestions of previous authors, Agathis australis trunks were found to support the greatest numbers of epiphytes and this species was one of the most frequent epiphyte hosts. The individual epiphytes found on Agathis australis, however, were significantly smaller and more appressed to the trunk than those on the other trees, and species composition differed from the other host species.
24056364|Recent work at several central South Island sites has shown that the bird-pollinated mistletoe Peraxilla tetrapetala (Loranthaceae) is extensively pollen-limited. We studied the diet, time-budget, and densities of its principal pollinator, bellbirds (Anthornis melanura, Meliphagidae), at Craigieburn to find out what aspect of bellbird ecology may be limiting pollination. Direct observations of bellbird diets showed that they are annual generalists on invertebrates (diet range 22 - 85% of food items) and honeydew (diet range 2 - 45%), and concentrate seasonally on mistletoe fruit (18 - 60%) and mistletoe nectar (27 - 58%) when available. The bellbirds at Craigieburn are more insectivorous than New Zealand's other two honeyeaters (tui and stitchbirds). In general, bellbirds are most similar to the short-billed guild of Australian honeyeaters in their beak morphology, foraging behaviour, and diet choice, but with a greater importance of fruit in the bellbird diet. The annual mean number of bellbirds recorded per 5-minute count (1.05) at Craigieburn was relatively low, even compared to other eastern South Island sites, which have lower counts of bellbirds than the western South Island and offshore islands. As mistletoe fruit and nectar were preferred foods when in season, and bellbird counts were low at Craigieburn, we conclude that it is the probable low number of bellbirds in the area, and not their choice of diet, which limits mistletoe pollination and dispersal. The bellbird population at Craigieburn did not appear to be food limited as bellbirds spent less than 20% of their time feeding, and the number of hours per day bellbirds spent feeding and foraging did not change significantly from winter to summer while food resources became more plentiful. Other pressures that limit the bellbird population size, particularly predation from introduced mammals, would appear more likely explanations for poor pollination and disperser services to mistletoes at Craigieburn.
24058198|Despite the ecological importance of tree holes as habitat for many species in New Zealand, few studies have quantified the abundance, distribution or structural characteristics of tree holes in native forests. We recorded a total of 364 tree holes in ground-to-canopy surveys on 50 trees of five endemic species in the families Fagaceae and Podocarpaceae within Orikaka Ecological Area, Buller District, New Zealand. Tree holes were not uniformly distributed throughout the forest, with more holes in the three podocarp species Prumnopitys ferruginea, P. taxifolia and Dacrycarpus dacrydioides than in Nothofagus fusca or N. menziesii. However, N. fusca had the largest tree holes of any of the tree species sampled. Tree-hole volume and tree-hole opening both increased with tree size. Tree-hole opening was strongly positively correlated with internal volume, especially for the podocarps. It therefore potentially provides a useful surrogate measure for quantifying the abundance of large tree holes from cost-effective ground surveys. We estimated there might be as many as 771 tree holes per hectare of forest at this site, but fewer of these were thought to be large enough for obligate hole-dwelling vertebrate species. Our findings differ from those of previous researchers in native forests around New Zealand because earlier studies used ground-based surveys to sample the abundance of tree holes suitable for specific fauna, whereas we used climbed inspections where all tree holes were recorded. These differences in tree-hole estimates per hectare could be particularly important for the conservation management of native vertebrate and invertebrate species.
24058177|The Argentine ant, Linepithema humile, was found established in New Zealand in 1990. During summer 2001/2002 the spread of Argentine ants from urban environments into native habitats was investigated. During an initial large-scale survey around the northern cities of Auckland and Whangarei, Argentine ants were observed at 35 of 211 sites. Eight sites in Auckland were subsequently surveyed in greater detail to determine the extent of movement by Argentine ants into native habitats. The presence of Argentine ants was determined every 10 m along a total of 28 transects into native forest, scrub and mangrove habitats. Argentine ants moved up to 20 m into forest habitats. In habitats with more open canopy (mangrove and scrub), ants moved at least 30 m and 60 m, respectively. We predict that open habitats and relatively open canopy scrub environments in northern New Zealand are likely to be vulnerable to invasion, and to experience the highest densities and the greatest impacts of Argentine ants. Our preliminary data, coupled with data from other parts of the world suggests that intact indigenous forest in New Zealand will probably not be invaded. Indigenous forests are likely to have Argentine ants only at the boundary with open habitat, but in highly fragmented landscapes the impact could be significant.
24060894|The suitability of line-transect-based distance sampling to robustly estimate population densities of bellbird (Anthornis melanura), kerer (Hemiphaga novaeseelandiae), North island tomtit (Petroica macrocephala toitoi) and t (Prosthemadera novaeseelandiae) during concurrent multi-species surveys was investigated. Densities were estimated annually from 2006 to 2009 at three sites within Coromandel Forest Park, New Zealand. The line-transect distance sampling method appeared to be suitable for estimating population densities of kerer, tomtit and t for little additional cost than a single-species survey. Potential violation of the three most important distance sampling assumptions was expected to have been minimised for these species; however, distance estimation errors were most likely to bias density estimates. In this study, the line-transect distance sampling method was not found to be suitable for estimating bellbird densities.
24060782|At-sea shifts in food quality and availability can affect populations of marine birds; however, it is difficult to evaluate the impacts of changes in prey composition and availability without some baseline information on diet composition. The little penguin (Eudyptula minor) is a common inshore-feeding seabird in New Zealand and Australia. To date, only two dietary studies have been undertaken on the little penguin in New Zealand, at two widely separated locations. This study recorded diet of little penguins during the chick-rearing stage of breeding at three colonies in southern New Zealand. Sixty-nine stomach samples were acquired via the stomach flushing technique at Banks Peninsula, Oamaru, and Stewart Island. Prey composition differed between each site: (1) at Oamaru, Graham's gudgeon (Grahamichthys radiata) occurred most frequently (100%) and contributed the most to meal mass (92.1%); (2) at Banks Peninsula arrow squid (Nototodarus sloanii) occurred most frequently (87.5%), but two fish species  slender sprat (Sprattus antipodum) (33.9%) and ahuru (Auchenoceros punctatus) (37.4%)  contributed most to meal mass; and (3) at Stewart Island arrow squid occurred most frequently (91.3%), and contributed most to meal mass (73.1%). Little penguins take a wide diversity of species, and may switch between species, probably in response to temporal variation in availability. In New Zealand, little penguins ate higher proportions of lower quality cephalopods than those in Australia. As top predators in the marine ecosystem, changes in little penguin diet may indicate changes occurring in the inshore marine ecosystem.
24058213|Artificial refuges and mark-recapture techniques were used to monitor the non-target impacts of hand-broadcast application (simulating aerial application) of Wanganui No.7 cereal-based baits containing 0.15% (1500 g g1) 1080 on populations of weta and other invertebrates in Tararua Forest Park, North Island, New Zealand. Wellington tree weta (Hemideina crassidens) and a cave weta (Isoplectron sp.) were the only species of weta that occupied the refuges. Flatworms, slugs, spiders, harvestmen, amphipods, millipedes, centipedes, cockroaches, and beetles also occupied the refuges. Invertebrate numbers in the refuges were monitored for 12 months before and 4 months after bait application on 22 August 2000. Bait application had no significant impact on the numbers of either species of weta, or on slugs, spiders, and cockroaches, the most numerous other invertebrates occupying the refuges. Bait application also had no effect on the number of individually marked tree weta resighted in the refuges. Few weta or other invertebrates were observed on baits at night. The concentration of 1080 in a cave weta collected alive from a bait, and in a tree weta collected alive from outside an artificial refuge, was less than 10% of the average lethal dose. The results indicate that 1080-poisoning for vertebrate pest control is unlikely to have any negative impact on populations of weta or the other invertebrates monitored.
24052608|At Belmont, Lower Hutt, a population of starlings which nested in 500 nest boxes on 1500 ha of pasture land was studied from 1970 to 1979. In total, 750 breeding females and 60 males were individually banded, and of 4006 chicks that fledged 258 females returned to nest in the study area. In different years, 3-60% of the females attempted a second clutch after a successful first brood. Clutch size of females more than 1 year old averaged 4.48 eggs (4.17 to 4.81 in different years) and declined seasonally in early (4.57), intermediate (4.40) and late clutches (4.06). On average, individual females laid 4.17 eggs per clutch in their first year, reached peak clutch size of 4.77 when 3 years old, and declined steadily to 3.9 eggs at 8-10 years old. Productivity was low: 33% of 17 326 eggs laid produced young likely to have fledged, equivalent to 1.63 chicks per box available or 1.92 per occupied box. The annual mortality rate of starlings banded as young was only 33% in New Zealand as a whole, compared with 50-70% overseas.
24060787|The Norway rat (Rattus norvegicus) is a highly destructive invasive species but while rat eradications on islands are effective, detection of survivors or reinvasions is challenging. We tested whether laboratory rats can act as lures for wild rats. We live-trapped rats first by using food baits, followed by live trapping using male and female lure rats vs controls (i.e. the same trapping device but without the lure animal). Norway rats were more frequently attracted to lure rats compared with controls. There was no sex bias in the trapped animals. Numbers of Norway rats caught with food baits compared with lure rats did not differ, but trapping rates were higher when using lure rats. Rat activity was detected only around lure rats. Ship rats (Rattus rattus) were not caught with Norway lure rats. We demonstrate the potential for detecting invasive Norway rats using conspecific rats as lures. Further research looking at conspecific attraction in other situations and in direct comparison with food-baited traps is needed to determine the efficacy of this method as a control measure.
24053583|Light environments in two lowland New Zealand podocarp rainforests are described using data from quantum sensors. Mean daily total photosynthetic photon flux density (PPFD) in the forest understorey varies from 2.6-5.2% incident PPFD in summer and 1.0-2.5% in autumn, and in gaps from 5.0-16.6% in summer and 6.3-8.3% in autumn. Pronounced differences in understorey PPFD occur between clear and overcast days. Overcast days tend to have a lower proportion of 2-minute periods with very low mean PPFD than clear days. In summer, 37.7-91.7% of PPFD occurs as sunflecks, but these only occur for 4.0-27.9% of the time. Most sunflecks are short duration (42.2-72.7% less than 4 minutes in summer) but some are very long (>32 minutes). Overall, light environments are similar to those found in other forests, both in New Zealand and elsewhere. However, canopy structure has a pronounced influence on spatial distribution of light environments within a forest, and differences in the size and frequency of canopy disturbances are a contributing factor to the floristic differences between the two forests studied.
24054522|Primary successions involving teatree (Kunzea ericoides var. ericoides with some Leptospermum scoparium) were studied on shallow landslide scars on soft sedimentary (mudstone) hill country under extensive pastoral use in the East Cape (Tairawhiti) region, using a 5-72 yr chronosequence established from sequential aerial photography and the age of the oldest teatrees on scars. Dynamics of primary even-aged teatree stands are similar to those in secondary successions on reverting pasture described previously from the region. Height growth rates and basal area indicate that the productivity of teatree stands on landslide scars is similar to that on intact regolith. Although seventy five vascular species were recorded, one-third of them adventive, only five species - all native - were consistently present. Classification and ordination revealed four distinct stages in the evolution of ground layer communities, the first three with <50% plant cover (establishment and persistence of adventive grasses and herbs for 15 years; exclusion by shading of species other than Hypochoeris radicata and mosses from 15-30 years; establishment of Microlaena stipoides, Uncinia spp., and ferns from 30-50 years) and the fourth with >50% plant cover (principally M. stipoides, from 50 years), reflecting the dynamics - dominated by intraspecific competition - of the teatree stands. Apart from Leucopogon fasciculatus, other early successional canopy species were rare and later successional canopy species typical of primary forest in the region were absent. Despite the presence of seed sources of later successional canopy species in nearby remnants of primary forest and the persistence of their dispersers, continued removal of mostly palatable potential successors by grazing will stall their progression to tall forest. Mean soil depth increased logarithmically with age, from an average of 20 cm at age 10 yr to 58 cm at age 70 yr, a rate substantially faster than on sandstone elsewhere in the country.
24052713|A feeding association between two New Zealand passerine birds, saddlebacks (Philesturnus carunculatus, Callaeidae), and fantails (Rhipidura fuliginosa, Muscicapidae) is described. Saddlebacks are poor fliers, give loud vocalisations, and feed noisily. These characteristics allow fantails to find saddlebacks and to capture insects disturbed by the saddleback's activity. Fantails follow at a distance of about 50 cm, and tend to remain behind and below the saddleback. Fantails use different feeding sites when feeding in association with saddlebacks than they use when feeding alone.
24056346|Adult mortality, seed production, and seedling establishment of two species of New Zealand broom (Carmichaelia juncea and C. vexillata) were studied in exclosure trials to determine the level of threat posed by herbivory by introduced mammals. While no effect on mortality was observed for either species, herbivory by hares drastically reduced seed production and subsequent seedling establishment in C. juncea. C. vexillata seemed less vulnerable to herbivore damage due to its plant architecture, as well as the timing and intensity of the herbivore impact. The results of this trial suggest that species characteristics and the dynamics of herbivore impacts need to be considered in planning targeted herbivore control.
24060850|Introduced feral pigs (Sus scrofa) include native fruit and seed in their diet, and thus may act as seed dispersers if seeds are passed intact. The aim of this study was to determine whether pigs consume, and subsequently disperse, intact seeds of the New Zealand native tree matai (Prumnopitys taxifolia). Two captive pigs were fed 100 ripe fruit of matai and their faeces checked for seeds for 4 days. Fourteen intact seeds (14%) were recovered and 57% of these germinated under glasshouse conditions, comparable with germination from hand-cleaned seeds. We collected 3.5 kg of feral pig faeces from matai-dominated forest in Isolated Hill Reserve, southern Marlborough. This sample contained over 450 intact matai seeds; these seeds readily germinated in the glasshouse, reaching 68% germination after 22 months. These results indicate that pigs are consuming native fruit and passing some viable seeds out  thus acting as occasional seed dispersers.
24060872|The introduced brushtail possum (Trichosurus vulpecula) is a major environmental and agricultural pest in New Zealand but little information is available on the ecology of possums in drylands, which cover c. 19% of the country. Here, we describe a temporal snapshot of the diet and feeding preferences of possums in a dryland habitat in New Zealand's South Island, as well as movement patterns and survival rates. We also briefly explore spatial patterns in capture rates. We trapped 279 possums at an average capture rate of 9 possums per 100 trap nights. Capture rates on individual trap lines varied from 0 to 38%, decreased with altitude, and were highest in the eastern (drier) parts of the study area. Stomach contents were dominated by forbs and sweet briar (Rosa rubiginosa); both items were consumed preferentially relative to availability. Possums also strongly preferred crack willow (Salix fragilis), which was uncommon in the study area and consumed only occasionally, but in large amounts. Estimated activity areas of 29 possums radio-tracked for up to 12 months varied from 0.2 to 19.5 ha (mean 5.1 ha). Nine possums (4 male, 5 female) undertook dispersal movements (1000 m), the longest of which was 4940 m. The most common dens of radio-collared possums were sweet briar shrubs, followed by rock outcrops. Estimated annual survival was 85% for adults and 54% for subadults. Differences between the diets, activity areas and den use of possums in this study and those in forest or farmland most likely reflect differences in availability and distribution of resources. Our results suggest that invasive willow and sweet briar may facilitate the existence of possums by providing abundant food and shelter. In turn, possums may facilitate the spread of weeds by acting as a seed vector. This basic ecological information will be useful in modelling and managing the impacts of possum populations in drylands.
24060821|A major paradigm in plant ecology is the recognition of the profound consequences of the below-ground environment on the interactions between plants and other species above ground. It has recently been suggested that this perspective should be incorporated into plans to restore disturbed habitats. However, these efforts are undermined by our lack of knowledge on the consequences of naturally occurring below-ground disturbance. The 6.2 moment magnitude earthquake that struck near Christchurch, New Zealand, on 22 February 2011 provides a rare test case to identify the effects of profound below-ground disturbance on above-ground interactions. We study these effects by quantifying interactions between the weedy perennial Malva sylvestris and its above-ground antagonists. We show that across two spatial scales, the presence of earthquake-induced soil disturbance (liquefaction) has no significant effect on the abundance of antagonists on M. sylvestris. Our results demonstrate resilience of some above-ground interactions to profound, natural below-ground disturbance. This result is important both for understanding the limits of the above-groundbelow-ground linkages paradigm and to help remediate the consequences of profound below-ground disturbances.
24056359|Fruit features of 17 Acaena species in New Zealand were investigated to determine the relations between reproductive allocation patterns, mode of dispersal and species ecology. Three basic morphological types, corresponding to major sections within the genus, are represented: spineless fruits (Sect. Pteracaena - one species), spined fruits lacking barbs (Sect. Microphyllae - 6 species), and spined fruits with barbs (Sect. Ancistrum - 10 species). The presence of terminal barbs on spines enhances fruit adhesion to animals, and is associated with the development of longer scapes, globular many-fruited capitula, and smaller single-seeded fruits. Barb-spined species generally have the broadest geographical range and habitat distribution within New Zealand, and are the only species of Acaena to occur in forests or on offshore islands. These species are generally strongly stoloniferous. Acaena species with barbless spines and/or no spines are often regional endemics confined to open and/or localised habitats, are rhizomatous, and may be dispersed by water, ingestion or wind. There is a tight correlation between intrageneric classification and species ecology and fruit features which requires testing via independent phylogenetic analysis based on molecular genetic characters. Although avian dispersers have declined since human settlement, introduced mammals may be performing a similar function for barbed Acaena species.
24052730|Approximately 50,000 ha of native wet Metrosideros forest on the island of Hawai'i experienced a drastic reduction (dieback) of the tree canopy between 1954 and 1977. Two general hypotheses have previously been suggested to explain this phenomenon: 1) Metrosideros dieback has resulted from recently introduced pathogens, and 2) the dieback has naturally occurred previously in Hawai'i, and is related to plant succession under periodic conditions of climatic instability which effect the soil moisture regime. Plant species composition, vegetation structure, and general substrate characteristics (lava flow type and soil drainage) were sampled on adjacent dieback and non-dieback rain forest stands. Although the only primary difference identified between these two forest stands was lava flow structure, both the soil drainage conditions and the plant communities which had developed on the two sites were found to be considerably different. The results of this study lend support to the successional hypothesis of Metrosideros dieback.
24054439|We compare hemispherical (fisheye) photography and direct measurement using dataloggers for quantifying light intensity (photon flux density) in a New Zealand forest remnant. The hemispherical method was generally accurate, and faster than using dataloggers, but deviated from measured light intensity at low light levels (<20% of full sunlight). For deeply shaded sites, diazo-paper chemical light meters may be more suitable.
24060732|Genetic variation in two translocated populations of North Island saddleback (Philesturnus rufusater) on Kapiti Island and at Zealandia was investigated using five microsatellite loci and compared with the source populations in the Hauraki Gulf. Although the absolute number of alleles in the two populations was low (3 alleles per locus), both populations carried all the alleles found in their immediate source populations, but lacked one rare allele found in only one individual from the original remnant population on Hen Island. Overall heterozygosity was high and inbreeding coefficients were low. Population viability analyses showed that these populations will likely reach carrying capacity by the middle of this decade, and genetic simulations predicted that they should retain between 90% (Kapiti) and 95% (Zealandia) of the heterozygosity of their sources. The difference between the two populations is most likely due to the prolonged post-translocation bottleneck on Kapiti when rats were still present on the island. While our results suggest that additional top-up translocations would be unnecessary and unwarranted at this time, further work on potentially selected loci or inbreeding depression could justify this decision to be revisited.
24060898|Urban areas can support significant bird populations, including species of conservation concern, but urban ecologists have been slow to apply detectability-based counting techniques. We compared abundacnes and relative abundances of eight urban birds, derived using two commonly applied techniques (fixed-radius point and strip sampling) and distance sampling. We evaluated the influence of habitat and two covariates (observer and whether birds were seen or heard) on detectability. Due to built-up structures in urban areas, point counts are appropriate. Unavoidable and sometimes complex but necessary interactions with multiple property owners may compromise the number of points able to be counted and therefore the precision of estimates. Abundances from strip and fixed-radius point counts were on average only one-third (strip) and less than one-half (fixed-radius point) those obtained using distance sampling, with interspecific variation in the degree to which densities were underestimated. Rankings of relative abundances were mostly similar, although distance sampling ranked silvereye (Zosterops lateralis) and grey warbler (Gerygone igata) relatively higher in residential habitat. Habitat did not appear to influence detectability for most species, but the two covariates (observer and seen/heard) improved model fit for a number of species, indicating it is useful to record this information. Well-standardised non-detectability-based counts could provide useful information on community structure and relative abundances in urban areas, but distance sampling is necessary to track the population status of species, although it cannot usefully be applied to rare species.
24056343|Estimates of abundance, age structure and sex ratio are essential for monitoring the status of populations. We report the first attempt to reliably estimate these parameters in a population of the recently discovered Raukumara tusked weta (Motuweta riparia), which is found almost entirely near streams. On two occasions we searched a 211-m section of creek for 45 successive nights and individually marked all weta. We estimated abundance of adults and juveniles using closed-population mark-recapture analysis. The choice of mark-recapture model made a substantial difference to the estimated abundance (116238) and proportion of juveniles (3272%). However, no single model was clearly better supported than any other. We therefore used model averaging to account for uncertainty in model choice, giving an estimate of 142 (95% CI 105231) weta including 56 (95% CI 41234) adults and 77 (95% CI 46209) juveniles. This corresponds to a density of 0.11 (95% CI 0.080.18) weta per m2, assuming 3 m of habitat on either side of the creek. Recapture probability was much lower for adults (n = 2) than juveniles (n = 10), possibly caused by a difference in handling (adults were held overnight whereas juveniles were not). Slightly more juvenile males (n = 22) were caught than juvenile females (n = 21), but more adult females (n = 51) were caught than adult males (n = 31), suggesting a potentially higher mortality in males. An initial assessment of population size is crucial when considering the conservation status and management strategy of rare animals, such as the highly endangered Middle Island tusked weta. The immediate practical benefit of the methods developed here is therefore clear. In the long-term, these methods also have important implications for the continued monitoring of trends in other threatened invertebrate populations.
24058107|Both tree and ground wt have been proposed as potential seed dispersers of some New Zealand fruit. We examine evidence for coevolution of ground wt and fleshy fruits as suggested by Burns (2006). We found that although ground wt consume fruits from Gaultheria depressa and G. antipoda, they do not do so in a way that would suggest they had coevolved as dispersers with these or other New Zealand plants (Coprosma, Muehlenbeckia, Leucopogon). In our experiments, ground wt ate fruits piecemeal and avoided most seeds even when these were very small (<1 mm) as in Gaultheria. We also found a positive preference for eating fruits of plants with seeds that were too big for ground wt to ingest. Several lines of reasoning we explore lend no support to the proposal that ground wt have coevolved with New Zealand plants resulting in the unusual characteristics displayed by many species (pale fruit presented within a divaricating canopy).
24058162|We quantified brushtail possum (Trichosurus vulpecula) diet in a mixed Nothofagus fusca-N. menziesii forest in north Westland. Diet comprised 49 food items of which four (Aristotelia serrata, Muehlenbeckia australis and Weinmannia racemosa foliage, and W. racemosa flowers) contributed 68%. The canopy dominant Nothofagus species were a minor diet component (<1%), while wood, fungi and bark were a small but consistent part of diet (10.1%). Our results are similar to previous possum diet studies in Nothofagus forests and suggest that possums are very selective in their feeding, both spatially and temporally, focusing on key preferred species in particular parts of the forest and taking advantage of different food types that become available at different times of the year.
24054546|Egg and chick loss at banded dotterel (Charadrius bicinctus) nests was studied over the 1992/93 season on the Tekapo, Ohau and Ahuriri Rivers in the Central South Island. Egg loss at nests was higher on the Ohau and Tekapo Rivers than on the Ahuriri River, especially early in the season. Only 11 % and 12 % of nests fledged one or more chicks on the Tekapo and Ohau Rivers respectively, compared to 42 % of nests on the Ahuriri River. Nests on islands within the braided riverbeds were more successful than nests on the mainland. Proximity of nests to potential predator cover did not influence hatching success although close proximity of nests to rabbit burrows increased the risk of predation. A lack of knowledge of the predator species involved in this study hampers assessment of the impact of various factors on the breeding success of banded dotterels. Further research to identify predators is necessary to target conservation management and better protect banded dotterel and endangered riverbed birds.
24060842|Evidence of diet has been reported for all genera of extinct New Zealand moa (Aves: Dinornithiformes), using preserved gizzard content and coprolites, except the forest-dwelling Anomalopteryx. Skeletal features of the little bush moa (Anomalopteryx didiformis) have led to competing suggestions that it may have either browsed trees and shrubs or grubbed for fern rhizomes. Here, we analyse pollen assemblages from two coprolites, identified by ancient DNA analysis as having been deposited by Anomalopteryx didiformis. The pollen results, together with identified fragments of leaf cuticles from the coprolites, support the hypothesis that Anomalopteryx didiformis browsed trees and shrubs in the forest understorey.
24053308|The numbers of Adelie penguins Pygoscelis adeliae (Hombron and Jacquinot) in the Ross Sea, Antarctica, have increased markedly over the past 10 years. Proportionally, this increase is most pronounced in McMurdo Sound, where the species' breeding range has recently been extended 3 km south to Cape Barne (7735'S) with the re-occupation of a former rookery that was abandoned sometime before the present century. These biological trends show remarkable synchronisation with physical evidence of climatic variation in the McMurdo Sound region. We suggest that the dynamics of Adelie penguin populations may be very sensitive indicators of changes in the Antarctic climate.
24053674|In addressing the issue of customary management of indigenous species, we begin by defining the rights of Maori and the responsibilities of the Crown under Article 2 of the Treaty of Waitangi. We then criticise the status quo by demonstrating what we see as cultural bias in native bird management. This is followed by an outline of the approach we believe is needed to better serve the requirements of the Treaty. We conclude that existing unfair management emphases produce outcomes that are both culturally and ecologically counterproductive.
24053570|Low acceptance of protein baits by common (Vespula vulgaris) and German (V. germanica) wasps (Hymenoptera: Vespidae) occurred after rain in honeydew beech forest. This corresponded with a sharp decrease in the proportion of natural protein in the diet of V. vulgaris and V. germanica, and a reduction in the concentration of carbohydrate-rich honeydew in the crops of foraging wasps carrying liquid. The reduction of protein foraging most likely results from a change in the efficiency of foraging wasps at gathering high energy foods such as honeydew after rain, because rain reduces honeydew availability. Workers may therefore take longer to meet their own energy requirements before they can forage for protein to feed developing larvae.
24055312|Changes in vegetation from 1990 to 2000 were examined at 10 high country localities, representing four grassland types: fescue tussock (Festuca novae-zelandiae), snow tussock (Chionochloa rigida), red tussock (C. rubra), and silver tussock (Poa cita). At each locality, three treatments were established: ambient sheep+rabbit grazing, rabbit grazing only, and no grazing. The mutivariate methods of classification and ordination were used on individual-quadrat cover data to define vegetation states and to examine transitions between them over time. Vegetation states in quadrats already dominated by Hieracium pilosella (>50% cover) in 1990 showed little change in species composition regardless of grassland type and grazing treatment. In fescue tussock grassland, H. pilosella increased regardless of grazing treatment in states with low initial H. pilosella cover (<5%), while the cover of Carex colensoi, Aira caryophyllea and Rumex acetosella decreased. In the single silver tussock locality, Poa cita decreased markedly in the ungrazed treatment as adventive species such as Dactylis glomerata and Echium vulgare increased. However, Poa cita also decreased, probably due to drought, in the grazed treatment. Snow tussock and red tussock grassland states were more stable than those in short tussock grasslands, but there was also a general trend towards increasing H. pilosella cover in intertussock vegetation regardless of treatment. However, at one snow tussock locality, transitions from H. pilosella-dominated to C. rigida-dominated states occurred in ungrazed quadrats, while the reverse occurred in grazed vegetation. Implications for the management of tussock grasslands for conservation are discussed.
24054646|We examined the jaw size, age and sex distribution of 324 red deer constituting a comprehensive record of all recreational hunting kills made by a single hunter of the Tararua ranges of North Island New Zealand over a period 20 years (1976-1996). The proportion of stags shot at times other than the rut (March - April) was not significantly different to that in a sample of deer obtained by commercial helicopter hunting and did not change significantly after the first three years of hunting regardless of any effect of helicopter hunting. Conversely, significantly greater numbers of males were shot during the months of the rut and this proportion increased significantly after the first three years of hunting presumably as a result of increased selectivity and or skill. The recreational hunter harvested significantly greater numbers of older animals than did helicopter hunters. The proportion of older animals shot during, and at times other than the rut, increased significantly after the first three years of hunting. Analysis of jaw length versus age showed a significant increase in the jaw size of age cohorts born after 1976 i. e. after an increase in culling effort and was indicative of a general decline in population density during the period of the study.
24054471|Soil characteristics were examined within and adjacent to two vegetation exclosures near Porters Pass, Canterbury retired from grazing 45 years ago. Soils were analysed for a range of simple physical (topsoil depth, bulk density), chemical (pH, exchangeable cations, P, S, total C and N) and biochemical (microbial carbon) properties to determine whether the vegetation recovery inside the exclosures was reflected in soil differences. At both sites there were few significant differences between the exclosure and the surrounding grazed area, despite vegetation recovery since exclusion of grazing. At Starvation Gully topsoil depth and Na were higher, and bulk density, pH, K, total C, total N and microbial C mass, and the microbial C to total C ratio were lower in the exclosure. At Cloudy Knoll Ca, Mg, total C and N were higher and Na was lower in the exclosure. There was a marked contrast in the trends at the two sites, with slightly lower nutrient status and organic matter in the exclosure at Starvation Gully, and the reverse at Cloudy Knoll. The differences between the sites probably reflect differences in the partitioning of nutrients and organic matter between vegetation, litter and soil at the two sites. The results suggest a slow rate of change of soil properties following cessation of grazing and the need to sample soils, litter and vegetation when determining trends in organic matter and chemical fertility.
24060890|Growing concerns about significant biodiversity decline due to agricultural intensification are increasingly leading consumers to seek agricultural products that are produced sustainably. To raise awareness of sustainable land management and direct policy and research to mitigate adverse impacts, large-scale bird monitoring programmes are being used in Europe. New Zealand's first farmland bird monitoring scheme was established in 2004 to quantify bird abundance on 98 farms across three sectors (sheep & beef, dairy and kiwifruit). Distance methods were considered ideal because they minimised disruption by nuisance variables that affected detectability (most often observer and whether birds were seen or heard; less frequently, effects of wind, habitat and farming systems). However, distance detection functions could only be measured for half the species present on the study farms, and sampling uncertainty remained high for several of those species. Gradually more species with reduced sampling uncertainty can be added as sufficient detections are gathered to generate their global detection functions. This will likely increase the scheme's power to detect any ongoing decline, but simulations that combine sampling uncertainty with observed inter-annual variation in abundance are now needed to test whether population-decline thresholds can be reliably detected using the current and alternative survey designs.
24052742|We quantify the notion of predictable species loss from progressively smaller islands, and apply the quantification to the indigenous forest-dwelling birds of a series of New Zealand islands and to the passerines of the Cyclades Archipelago in the Aegean Sea. The analysis focuses on the reasons why the species-area relationship deviates from a perfect rank-correlation. For both avifaunas, most species are found remarkably predictably: they approximate a pattern in which each species occupies all those and only those islands larger than some species-specific minimum area. However, a minority of species in each avifauna do not conform to this pattern. Possible reasons for non-conformance include habitat differences among islands, anthropogenous extinctions, and equilibrium turnover. To the extent that the first two forces predominate, it would be far better to base conservation decisions on species lists from particular tracts that are potential refuges than on island occupancy patterns.
24052381|Plate counts and CO2-respiration rates for various added substrates were measured for samples of mud from the lower reaches of the Heathcote River, Christchurch. All samples tested contained large populations of aerobic and anaerobic micro-organisms able to metabolize glucose, succinate and benzoate. Our results suggest that the availability of utilizable carbon was the major limiting factor for cell growth.
24058201|We studied the genus- and species-specialist monophagous herbivorous insects of Senecio (Asteraceae) in Auckland, New Zealand. With the exception of the widespread S. hispidulus, the eight native Senecio species in mainland Auckland (two endemic) are typically uncommon and restricted to less modified conservation land. However, 11 naturalised Senecio have established and are often widespread in urban and rural habitats. Three endemic Senecio-specialist herbivores  Nyctemera annulata, Patagoniodes farnaria, and Tephritis fascigera  formed novel host associations with naturalised Senecio species and spread into modified landscapes. Host associations for these species were not related to whether Senecio species are naturalised or native. However, the abundances of Patagonoides farnaria and Tephritis fascigera were significantly higher in wildland habitats than rural or urban habitats, and wildland Senecio were on average 1.4 times more likely to experience >5% folivory than urban conspecifics.
24058125|Plants can change the soil that they grow on, for example by producing litter. If litter characteristics are such that their effect on the soil increases a plant's fitness, a positive feedback can develop between the plant and the soil. Several studies indicate that New Zealand kauri trees (Agathis australis) lower the availability of nutrients in the soil beneath their crown. Low nutrient availability would be positive for the survival of kauri seedlings as they are known to use nutrients more efficiently than angiosperm species. We tested the hypotheses that nutrient availability is lower and light availability is higher beneath kauri trees than beneath the surrounding angiosperm vegetation. We determined the availability of nutrients (using leaf nutrient concentrations as a proxy), soil moisture, and light in both situations. As a reference we did the same measurements in tea tree vegetation (Leptospermum scoparium and Kunzea ericoides) where kauri seedlings were abundant. The availability of nitrogen, phosphorus and calcium was lower under kauri than in the surrounding vegetation. Further, in a dry period the availability of water in the organic layer surrounding the kauri trunk was lower than in the mineral soil further away from the kauri trunk. We suggest that periodic drought explains why the density of kauri seedlings under mature kauri trees is less than in tea tree vegetation. Kauri seedlings are more tolerant of drought and low nutrient availability than other tree seedlings and we conclude that the conditions under mature kauri give kauri seedlings an advantage over seedlings of other tree species. The low nutrient availability under mature kauri trees supports the idea of a positive soilplant feedback driven by poor decomposability of kauri litter.
24053602|The yellowhead, a forest-dwelling passerine endemic to the South Island of New Zealand, has declined in both abundance and range since the arrival of European settlers last century. In the last 30 years it has all but disappeared from the northern half of the South Island but remains widespread in the south. One possible explanation is that the yellowhead has declined in abundance throughout its range, disappearing from less suitable habitats in which it was never very abundant. To test this hypothesis a habitat suitability index was constructed and northern and southern forests compared. Yellowheads appear to be tall forest specialists and are most common in tall red beech dominated forests at low altitude on flat valley floors. No evidence was found that forests in the northern South Island are any less suitable for yellowheads than those in the south. Other explanations for the decline of yellowheads in the north of their range are discussed.
24060649|The endangered New Zealand widow spider, Latrodectus katipo, is believed to have undergone marked population decline over the last 30 years, but as monitoring methods are time- and labour-intensive, and require observers to have a high level of experience, the current status of many populations is unknown. We investigated the use of artificial cover objects (ACOs) as an alternative monitoring tool for L. katipo at three sites at Himatangi Beach, Manawatu, New Zealand, from late 2004 through to mid-2005. Occupancy rates of the ACOs were compared to population densities obtained from habitat searches, to assess their efficacy as a monitoring tool. Numbers of the introduced spider, Steatoda capensis, which may be a competitor of L. Katipo, were also recorded during habitat searches. ACOs were reliable monitoring tools, with occupancy rates higher at the site with the highest L. Katipo population density. Latrodectus katipo populations were found to have highly female biased sex-ratios, with a longer breeding season at Himatangi than reported previously at other sites. Steatoda capensis exists at much higher population densities than L. katipo at Himatangi. However, fluctuations in the populations of the two species appear to be unrelated. ACOs could be used as a non-destructive monitoring tool for many other invertebrate species.
24053568|New Zealand's protected natural areas are being increasingly threatened by weeds as the natural landscape is fragmented and surrounding land use intensifies. To assist in designing management to reduce the threat, we attempted to determine the most important reserve characteristics influencing the presence of problem weeds in forest and scrub reserves. Data on 15 reserve characteristics were derived from surveys of 234 reserves. From correlation analysis, analysis of variance and consideration of several multivariate models, it appears that the most important characteristics influencing the number of problem weeds in reserves are proximity to towns, distance from roads and railway lines, human use, reserve shape, and habitat diversity. These factors reflect principally increased proximity to source of propagules associated with intensifying land use, including urbanisation. Reserves with the most weeds are narrow remnants on fertile soils with clearings and a history of modification, and those close to towns or sites of high human activity. If these reserves are to continue to protect natural values, they will require regular attention to prevent the establishment of further weeds. Accidental spread of weeds and disturbance in reserves should be minimised.
24052792|Twelve kiwis were radio-tagged and tracked for 12-78 weeks in two sites in Hawke's Bay. Four bonded pairs had ranges of 19.1 to 42.3 ha (estimated by the convex polygon method), which were apparently defended against other kiwis. Two unmated females had ranges of 48.0 and 43.1 ha. Another unmated female occupied a narrow, circular strip, 5.4 km long, covering about 26 ha. The ranges of four kiwis in scrubland and eight in climax beech/podocarp forest were similar in size. Kiwis roosted on 36% of days in burrows which they excavated themselves. On other days they roosted in natural subterranean tunnels, or in hollows under fallen trees, thick vegetation, or inside logs. Generally they roosted in a different place each day but often returned to sites they had used previously. Members of bonded pairs roosted apart on 92% of days, in different parts of their range. In terms of current understanding of population genetics, reserves for kiwis in Hawke's Bay probably need to be at least 7500 ha in order to support a genetically enduring population of 250 breeding pairs. None of the existing reserves meet this requirement.
24054456|Records of official deer control operations in the Kaweka Range between 1958 and 1988 have been used to describe the pattern of official hunting, to indicate changes in hunting efficiency, and to show trends in the proportions of sika and red deer in sympatric populations. The pattern of hunting largely reflected wild animal control priorities, and to some extent the resources available. Whereas hunting effort was concentrated in Block 1 (of three) during the 1960s to protect catchment values, changes in the rationale for wild animal control and the efforts of commercial and recreational hunters in the more accessible areas led to a more even spread of the hunting effort from the early 1970s. Hunting efficiency also varied between the three hunting blocks, probably reflecting differences in the ease with which particular habitats could be hunted. A decline in hunting efficiency over the study period was interpreted as an overall decrease in the density of the deer population. The proportion of sika among the deer shot in the Kaweka Range has increased steadily from about 10-20% in the early 1960s to 70% in 1987-88. A competitive advantage over red deer because of their different digestive physiology is suggested as the main reason. The most rapid increases in the proportion of sika were associated with two peaks in commercial venison and live-capture operations that concentrated on red deer, indicating that commercial hunting has also been a factor. It is likely that sika will continue increasing in proportion to red deer in areas already inhabited. In addition, sika will probably continue to disperse into new areas as they competitively displace red deer.
24053178|In late 1986 an official deer hunting regime in the Murchison Mountains, Fiordland, was compared with two commerical aerial hunting regimes in the adjacent Stuart Mountains by measuring the density of deer faecal pellet groups. Overall densities in the Stuart Mountains were twice those in the Murchison Mountains. Official hunting appeared to be more effective than commercial hunting at reducing and controlling deer densities in heavily forested catchments, but not in catchments with less extensive forest cover. The deer density in individual catchments was determined primarily by the extent of forest cover, which controlled the vulnerability of deer to aerial hunting. The presence of the protected wapiti (Cervus elaphus nelsoni) in the northern Stuart Mountains resulted in higher deer densities, when differences in deer vulnerability between catchments were taken into account, than in the southern Stuart Mountains where there are only red deer (Cervus elaphus scoticus). The restriction on the commercial harvesting of wapiti appears to have increased the proportion of wapiti-like deer in some catchments in the Stuart Mountains. Normal commerical hunting may provide the same level of deer control as official hunting for the management of takahe (Notornis mantelli) in some of the catchments studied, assuming 1986 economic conditions and hunter skills.
24054779|There is growing awareness and concern in New Zealand about native birds eating poisonous baits intended for pest species such as brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) and rats (Rattus rattus, R. norvegicus, R. exulans). We investigated the colour preferences of North Island robins (Petroica australis) a species known to be vulnerable to poisoning. The main aims were to determine if: (1) robins had colour preferences, (2) the preferences were consistent between two separate populations and 3) the preferences were similar to those found previously in weka (Gallirallus australis), another native species. Robins in Pureora Forest Park and Te Urewera National Park were individually offered a choice between differently coloured versions of a novel food (red, yellow, brown, green, light blue and medium blue) daily, for six consecutive days. Robins showed food colour preferences pecking more at the red, yellow and green cake than the medium blue, light blue or brown cake. No difference was evident in the colour preferences of the two populations. The colour preferences of robins were similar to those reported previously with weka. Dyeing poisonous baits may be sufficient to stop a proportion of robins from eating them. Further work is needed to determine how colour preferences vary across seasons, populations and species.
24052775|The hypothesis that communal roosts and breeding colonies of birds act as information centres for food-finding was tested using pigeons, Columba livia, in Hawke's Bay, New Zealand. The birds roosted and bred in lofts, but were free each day to search for food in the surrounding fields. Two of three experiments showed that naive pigeons could learn the location of a patch of food when with experienced birds. A fourth experiment showed that naive birds learned by following experienced ones to a good feeding area. Pigeons returning from a successful foraging trip did not transfer information on the distance and direction of the food to other members of the colony.
24056349|Honeydew production by New Zealand beech scale insects (Ultracoelostoma spp., Hemiptera: Margarodidae) is widely considered to have a positive influence on native animal abundance and ecosystem functioning. As a first assessment of whether there is a positive relationship between honeydew throughfall and litter decomposition rates, we placed experimental litter bags in each of 10 high and 10 low honeydew plots in mixed southern beech (Nothofagus) forest at each of two sites, Lakehead and Rotoiti, in the Nelson Lakes National Park. High and low honeydew plots were selected using sooty mould biomass on the forest floor as a surrogate for honeydew throughfall, as sooty mould biomass was shown to be strongly correlated (r = 0.906) with scale insect population size at the Rotoiti site. Contrary to our expectation, terrestrial litter decomposition was significantly lower in high honeydew plots than in low honeydew plots, at both Lakehead and Rotoiti. The presence of introduced wasps (Vespula spp., Hymenoptera: Vespidae) at the Lakehead site did not appear to have any significant effect on litter decomposition rates, despite the fact that wasps are thought to intercept much of the honeydew produced in this forest. Variance in litter decomposition rates between high and low honeydew treatments was predominantly determined by a direct relationship between sooty mould biomass and litter decomposition rate at the scale of individual litter bags. However, the mechanistic explanation for the observed relationship is unclear. Future studies should be directed towards quantifying the functional relationship between honeydew throughfall and growth rates of sooty mould, and their subsequent effects on abiotic conditions, microarthropod community dynamics and microbial activity rates in litter.
24060634|Spatial studies of ecology rarely look at small-scale spatial community organisation within multiple plots on multiple sites therefore it is difficult to draw conclusions that can be generalised. We hypothesised that small-scale spatial patterns of Festuca tussock grasslands should be consistent within a site and between various sites because their functional ecology is likely to be similar. Tussocks were mapped in 15 plots ranging in size from 56 to 400 m2 spread over four sites. Ripley's K, inhomogeneous Ripley's K and inhomogeneous pair correlation functions were implemented to detect patterns of aggregation, regularity and not significantly different from random at scales up to 300 cm. While Ripley's K indicated a general trend of regularity up to small scales (c. 20 cm) and aggregation up to larger scales (>40 cm), these patterns were not upheld by the inhomogeneous Ripley's K and inhomogeneous pair correlation function analyses, which did not yield consistent patterns. Our results suggest that within- and between-site variation of spatial patterns cannot be assumed to be consistent.
24055335|During a comprehensive survey in 1999, 2000 and 2001, we investigated the number of breeding yellow-eyed penguin pairs on Stewart Island, where cats are present, and on adjacent cat-free islands. We found 79 pairs of yellow-eyed penguin breeding in 19 discrete locations on Stewart Island (4.2 pairs per location), and 99 pairs breeding in 10 discrete locations on all cat-free islands (9.9 pairs per location). Large-scale human-induced habitat modifications have not occurred on Stewart Island, nor on any of its adjacent offshore islands. While the extensive coastline of Stewart Island (673 km) offers potentially large areas of breeding habitat for penguins, the highest number of breeding pairs were found on the smaller, predator-free Codfish Island (25 km coastline), where a total of 61 breeding pairs were recorded. On Stewart Island, where mustelids do not occur, only feral cats can pose a serious threat to penguin offspring. Results from this study suggest that feral cats may prey on yellow-eyed penguins on Stewart Island. Further work is necessary to investigate whether the observed low numbers of yellow-eyed penguins on Stewart Island are caused by feral cat predation. If so, it may be possible to develop appropriate measures to protect this penguin species from a population decline.
24056440|We describe a simple gravimetric technique for measuring the standing crop or production of carbohydrate-rich solutions such as honeydew or nectar. Simulated honeydew was sampled by absorbing droplets of solutions of known concentration and volume with dried and weighed pieces of filter paper. The change in mass of the paper after redrying provides an estimate of the total solution carbohydrates. This method was compared with a widely-used technique, whereby the volume and concentration of droplets is measured with microcapillary tubes and a sugar refractometer. A factor was derived to convert gravimetric refractometer readings (g sucrose 100 g1 solution) to volumetric carbohydrate concentration (g carbohydrate 100 ml1 solution) for the simulated honeydew solutions. There was no difference in the ratio of measured-to-expected carbohydrate mass between the two techniques, showing that the quick, easy, and accurate filter-paper method is appropriate for measuring carbohydrate-rich solutions.
24053185|An estimate of intrinsic rate of increase (rm) of a brushtail possum (Trichosurus vulpecula) population was calculated from the measured increase in possum numbers after a poisoning operation in Westland rata/kamahi forest. Our empirical estimate of rm (0.220.25) was lower than published estimates for this species (0.30, 0.34, 0.59). Consequently, the control operation was effective for longer than predicted by population models that used these published values. We suggest reasons why the rates of fecundity and juvenile survival used in other modelling studies may have been inappropriate for this population.
24054748|Population structure, diversity and gene flow in four populations of Aciphylla glaucescens were studied using allozymes. Six of the seven putative loci were polymorphic in at least one population. Within populations the mean percentage of polymorphic loci was 68%. Gene diversity for Aciphylla glaucescens (He = 0.258) was greater at the species level compared with other outcrossing, wind pollinated plant species (He = 0.162). The mean diversity among populations of A. glaucescens (FST = 0.256) was also greater than that reported for most other species with similar breeding systems. Estimated gene flow (Nm) between populations was low, with only 0. 72 migrants per generation. The high gene diversity of A. glaucescens may be due to the widespread distribution, obligate outcrossing and high fecundity of this species.
24055346|The claim by Dungan et al. (2002) that "in many areas possums may be the only potential dispersal vector for large-seeded native species" is unsubstantiated. There is little evidence possums excrete viable seed of large-seeded fruit greater than 10 mm diameter, and seeds up to this size are dispersed by a suite of bird species. Nowhere in New Zealand are there likely to be possums in the absence of this suite of bird species.
24053257|Anthropic, or man-induced erosion can be recognized on Canterbury's mountain land. Almost all of it is identical in form and mode of origin to other erosion types, and may be indistinguishable unless obviously associated with roads, tracks, or fences. In particular, where vegetation is destroyed or impaired by fire or grazing, it is impossible to separately identify anthropic and natural components of the erosion. Early surveys reported significant anthropic erosion throughout the region. Subsequent work has revealed some errors in methodology, but more importantly it allows the human influence to be viewed in context with the more significant and more extensive natural erosion. The highest sediment yields and erosion rates in Canterbury are within the wetter, and in some places well-forested, areas near the main divide, rather than in the drier, depleted eastern ranges. Some barren screes have changed little over centuries, and even very active unstable screes may be old landforms. Soil stratigraphy reveals a long history of episodic stability and instability. Dated charcoals provide a fire history spanning more than 40,000 yr. More frequent fires between 500 and 1000 yr ago brought widespread deforestation. There probably were regional increases in erosion while forest soils adjusted to loss of tree-root strength. Early pastoralists further increased the frequency of fires and grazed sheep, greatly modifying the grass- and shrub-land vegetation in both stature and composition. Erosion rates would have increased because sheet erosion is more than 10 times greater from bare soils than from those with intact tussock, scrub, or scree cover. Repeat photographs near Porters Pass, however, show both increases and decreases in bare ground rather than a general trend over the last 90 yr. Widely distributed grassland transects also show little consistent change in bare ground in the last 10 to 35 yr. Harsh climate and soil infertility slow or inhibit plant re-establishment on bared ground for decades and probably centuries in the drier mountain lands of Canterbury.
24060786|Artificial nests and tracking tunnels are alternative predator encounter devices that can be used to predict predation risk to native species. Tracking tunnels are used ubiquitously in New Zealand, whereas artificial nests are used extensively overseas. To assess whether these devices give similar information about predation risk, we compared tracking tunnel and artificial nest data from 16 native forest fragments in the central North Island over two summers. The fragments were expected to vary in predation risk due to rat control in some fragments, and possibly due to habitat differences caused by stock grazing. We modelled the 'survival' of both types of devices, where 'survival' is defined as the probability of not being tracked or bitten by a rat over a set period (possum bites were also considered to indicate nest failure, but were rare). We used a Bayesian hierarchical framework that allowed for random effects of individual devices as well as fragments, and random time effects. Data from both devices showed clear effects of rat control, but otherwise gave different results. Tracking tunnel survival varied greatly among fragments in the absence of control, with survival generally higher in grazed than ungrazed fragments, whereas no such pattern occurred in artificial nest survival. Different habitat variables explained variation in survival at both site and fragment level; understorey density was the only useful predictor of tracking tunnel survival, whereas artificial nest survival was correlated with canopy cover, vegetation cover at 1.5 m, and supplejack presence. When both data types were modelled simultaneously, the tracking tunnel data improved capacity to explain the artificial nest data whereas the reverse was not true. Consequently, while it is unknown whether the additional inter-fragment variation detected by tracking tunnels indicates real variation in predation risk, we currently see no reason to prefer the more labour-intensive artificial nests.
24052788|Simple grazing models with two herbivores are used to assess the effects of pasture pests on stability and productivity of continously-growing pastures. Algebraic and graphical methods are also presented for estimating losses from pasture pests at different stocking rates directly, from data on productivity/stocking rate relationships. Pests are considered as competing grazing herbivores and denuders of pasture area. Denuding pests have no effect on stability but grazing pests increase the likelihood of discontinuous stability. The forms of the damage function and its dependence on stocking rate are described for both types of pest. Estimating losses from pasture pests by an equivalent reduction in stocking rate can give useful 'best bet' results even when the true effect is to reduce per capita productivity at fixed stocking rates. However, the first will overestimate or underestimate the second in particular situations, depending on the level of the fixed stocking rate relative to the economic optimum. Actual economic losses for rabbits and porina caterpillars, representing grazing and denuding pests, are estimated as $2.1/rabbit and $0.08/porina m2/stock unit carried, based on a reduction in stocking rate. At a fixed optimum stocking rate losses are 30% greater, and at a fixed 75% optimum stocking rate losses are 60% less. Given the sensitivity of losses to stocking rate, field trials to estimate pest or weed effects should assess their impact on stocking rate rather than their effect on productivity at a fixed stocking rate whose relationship to the theoretical optimum is unknown. The equilibrium model is shown to apply to seasonal pastures, but regular variations in growth rate reduce productivity and increase stability, converting some discontinuously stable systems into continuously stable ones. The likelihood of discontinuous stability appears in any case remote. The 'laissez-faire' herbivore/vegetation model (the 'extensive' equivalent of the one described in this paper, with herbivore numbers varying) can not be applied to more than one herbivore.
24054460|Population size and structure of 52 isolated Nothofagus fusca stands were investigated in the lower Otira Valley, 3-6 km from a major population centre in the upper Taramakau catchment. The approximate age of N. fusca pioneer trees, estimated from partial increment cores and calculations based on diameter growth rates, indicated that nearly all isolated stands originated after 1600 AD, predominantly during the periods 1600-1760 AD and 1865-1910 AD. Age and location of pioneer trees from the latter time span suggest that their establishment was a result of human disturbance associated with European settlement of the region. Most of the sites occupied by the older N. fusca outliers are prone to intermittent natural disturbance, creating temporary gaps in the generally forested habitat. Reduced competition from both other tree species and ground cover in these habitats may have allowed establishment of N. fusca pioneer trees, but subsequent recruitment was limited except in floodplain stands. The comparatively abrupt regional geographical limit of N. fusca is discussed in relation to the local rainfall regime.
24060879|Banana passionfruit (Passiflora tripartita var. mollissima) is an invasive vine in New Zealand where it lacks its natural hummingbird pollinator. We investigated the mating system and reproductive traits that facilitate its spread in the Marlborough Sounds. Flower observations revealed that visitors were almost exclusively introduced honeybees and bumblebees, indicating an invasive mutualism. We investigated the pollination system of banana passionfruit by comparing fruit set, fruit size, seed set, and germination success between hand-selfed, hand-crossed, bagged and open flowers, and inbreeding depression in seedlings grown in competition. Fruit set was reduced by 83% when pollinators were excluded (3.0% fruit set, compared with 18.0% for unmanipulated flowers) indicating reliance on pollinators for reproduction. While banana passionfruit is partially self-compatible, fruit set was significantly reduced in hand-selfed flowers (17.5%) compared with crossed flowers (29.5%), and we found significant pollen limitation (hand-crossed vs unmanipulated, Pollen Limitation Index = 0.39). There was no significant inbreeding depression found in fruit size, seeds per fruit, germination success, seedling growth or seedling survival. Combining these data showed that natural unmanipulated flowers produce more seedlings per flower (1.7) than bagged flowers (0.9), but fewer than hand-selfed (3.0) and hand-crossed (5.3) flowers. Thus, reproduction in Passiflora tripartita var. mollissima is facilitated by an (imperfect) new association with exotic bees.
24053246|From the relationship of the number of bird species to land area in New Zealand, the expected number of moa species is about 8 to 12. Of these, half should have lived in forest and half in open habitats. This may help to explain the uneasiness biogeographers have felt with 28 described species of moas, and the question of whether they were forest birds or not.
24058127|Size, density and distribution of the brown garden snail (Cantareus aspersus) were observed relative to cover at a coastal reserve on the North Island, New Zealand. Cover variables depended on vegetation height and available debris (rubbish, wood, cow dung). Air temperature, ground temperature, and relative humidity were recorded continuously during the field survey for the various cover types. Live snails used debris disproportionately as resting habitat, where relative humidity and temperature were the least variable. Desiccation rates were obtained by dehydrating snails of three size-classes and calculating desiccation rates as a function of water loss over time under controlled conditions in the laboratory. Results suggest that the shell aperture:size ratio is an important factor regarding desiccation stress in C. aspersus, especially in young and small-sized snails.
24058141|The size and shape of the managed area for a threatened species to have a stable or growing population is a central issue for conservation management, for example for kiwi, Apteryx sp. Combining geometric probability results for retention of juveniles to breed in the protected area with a standard matrix population model allows the creation of an explicit relationship between the minimum area needed and how far juveniles of the species disperse to establish breeding territories. For a given set of demographic parameters for the population, and a rectangular protected area, there is a quadratic relationship between area and dispersal distance. Extensions for a circular protected area, and for a probability distribution on dispersal distance, are considered. The results are applied to kiwi, using established population parameters, giving results that match closely those from a previously published simulation. This approach can provide simple tools, readily implemented in a spreadsheet, for assessment of the size and shape of protected areas needed in conservation management of animals that disperse before breeding.
24053736|Dactylanthus taylorii, a root parasite in the family Balanophoraceae, is New Zealand's only fully parasitic flowering plant. It grows attached to the roots of a wide range of hardwood trees and shrubs, often in fire-induced secondary forest on the margin of podocarp-hardwood forest. It is inconstantly dioecious with a skewed sex ratio of approximately 5:1 male to female inflorescences. The inflorescences, especially the males, contain a large quantity of nectar, up to 1.6 ml, and can produce 0.5 ml per day for 10 days. The morphology of the inflorescences, the quantity and chemistry of the nectar, time-lapse video monitoring and other evidence suggest that the Dactylanthus flowers are adapted for pollination by short-tailed bats. Ship rats are also effective pollinators but occasionally destroy the inflorescences. Kiore completely destroyed all the inflorescences observed on Little Barrier Island in 1992 and 1993, although some seed was found there in 1991. Dactylanthus plants have been successfully cultivated by sowing seeds close to the roots of broadleaf plants. Germination was very slow with the highest rates occurring nearly five years after the seed was sown. Further research is needed to clarify the role of fungal hyphae found inside the cells of a young plant and that of the sheath processes which may assist vegetative reproduction. Video monitoring provided evidence that the introduced possum, by browsing the inflorescences, threatens the survival of Dactylanthus at most North Island sites. Where possums were present, and the plants unprotected, almost all the inflorescences were browsed. Adult plants at the main study site had a half-life of only 8.5 years. Conservation management to ensure the survival of Dactylanthus will require protection of the plants from possums, rats and humans and adequate areas of secondary forest containing abundant host plants.
24058097|Understanding resource selection by animals is important when considering habitat suitability at proposed release sites within threatened species recovery programmes. Multi-scale investigatory approaches are increasingly encouraged, as the patchy distribution of suitable habitats in fragmented landscapes often determines species presence and survival. Habitat models applied to a threatened New Zealand forest passerine, the South Island saddleback (Philesturnus carunculatus carunculatus), reintroduced to Ulva Island (Stewart Island) found that at landscape scale breeding pairs' preferences for sites near the coast were driven by micro-scale vegetation structure. We tested these results by examining models of breeding site selection by a reintroduced saddleback population on Motuara Island (Marlborough Sounds) at two scales: (1) micro-scale, for habitat characteristics that may drive breeding site selection, and (2) landscape scale, for variations in micro-scale habitat characteristics that may influence site colonisation in breeding pairs. Results indicated that birds on Motuara Island responded similarly to those on Ulva Island, i.e. birds primarily settled at the margins of coastal scrub and forest and later cohorts moved into larger stands of coastal forest where they established breeding territories. Plant species composition was also important in providing breeding saddleback pairs with adequate food supply and nesting support. However, Motuara Island birds differed in their partitioning of habitat use: preferred habitats were used for nesting while birds were foraging outside territorial boundaries or in shared sites. These differences may be explained because Motuara has a more homogeneous distribution of micro-scale habitats throughout the landscape and a highly bird-populated environment. These results show that resource distribution and abundance across the landscape needs to be accounted for in the modelling of densitybirdhabitat relationships. In the search for future release sites, food (invertebrates and fruiting tree species) should be abundant close to available nesting sites, or evenly spread and available throughout the landscape.
24052395|A census of the Himalayan thar (Hemitragus jemlahicus) in Carneys Creek, a tributary of the Havelock branch of the Rangitata River, was undertaken in 1965, when thar were at about peak density, and repeated in 1977. In the intervening 12 years, the population was hunted from the ground for recreation, and from helicopters for animal control purposes and commercially for meat. This paper describes the results of the two censuses and discusses the differences. The 1965 census was 710 thar, the 1977 census was 48 thar. This is a decrease of 93% from 32.9 animals/km2 (825 kg/km2) to 2.2 animals/km2 (56 kg/km2). One half of the thar seen in 1965 were in groups of 31 animals or more (mean group size 15.8), whereas the largest group seen in 1977 was of 7 animals (mean group size 3.2). Female-juvenile groups comprised more than 90% of the thar seen in both censuses.
24053652|Home range dimensions and habitat use by ship rats (Rattus rattus) at Puketi, a kauri (Agathis australis) forest in Northland, were examined by live capture and radio-tracking over five weeks in September and October 1993. Home ranges of six females and five males averaged 0.86 ha in area and 174 m in length, with no significant difference in range area or length between males and females. There was substantial overlap in ranges between and within sexes. One adult male increased the size of his range more than four-fold in seven nights in late October, coinciding with the beginning of the breeding season. Some rats changed daytime den sites frequently and others used the same den for a number of consecutive days; rats were found sharing dens on many occasions. Most rats returned to previously-used dens after denning elsewhere. At night, rats spent most of their time active on or close to the ground. There are a number of important differences between our findings and those from other studies of ship rats in New Zealand; we suggest that the different times of year at which the studies were carried out are responsible for some of these differences. Our results, with those of others, suggest that in winter rats of both sexes have 0.5-1.0 ha ranges, but that during the breeding season ranges of males increase while those of females stay similar in size. Trapping indices showed that ship rats were not evenly distributed in Puketi Forest. In December 1993, an aerial poison operation to control brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) was carried out over the study area, at which time five rats (three male, two female) still carried functioning radio-transmitters. The three males died within four hours on the night following the operation but the two females were alive three days later.
24052772|Poison was used at remote anchorages of southern Stewart Island in spring and summer of 1984/85 to reduce the likelihood of ship rats (Rattus rattus), Norway rats (R. norvegicus) and kiore (R. exulans) boarding fishing boats heading for the Snares Islands. Poison baits were removed at successively slower rates, probably because poisoning had reduced rat numbers. The effectiveness of poisoning was tested by (i) live-capturing and tracking marked rats at a simulated anchorage near Halfmoon Bay, (ii) poisoning there as in southern Stewart Island, and (iii) monitoring the survival and responses of the marked population. Population density approximated 2.0-2.5 ship rats per hectare before poisoning. The minimum monthly home range of ship rats averaged 0.54 ha (mean range length 142 m), which is much larger than previously recorded for ship rats in New Zealand. Neither Norway rats nor ship rats were restricted to the shoreline or along creeks. Poisoning caused a 93% reduction in an index of rat numbers in a 0.69 ha poisoning zone over 16 days, and a 76% reduction over the larger 10.4 ha effective trapping area including the poison zone. Poisoning reduces the risk of rats boarding boats, and can protect endangered plants and animals on infested islands.
24060826|Efficient detection techniques will confirm the presence of a species at a site where the species exists, and are essential for effective population monitoring and for assessing the outcome of management programmes. However, detection techniques vary in their ability to detect different species. A wide range of mammalian predator species, most introduced into New Zealand since the late 18th century, have had a detrimental impact on the native flora and fauna. To date, there has been little research to compare the efficiency of detection techniques for these species, especially in non-forest habitats. We used nine commonly-available techniques to survey for the presence of mammalian predators at 19 sites on the open, non-forested banks of the Rangitata River, a large braided river in the South Island, New Zealand. We compared the relative efficiency of the techniques using three metrics: raw detection rates, KaplanMeier survival analysis, and probability of detection. Techniques varied in their ability to detect eight species of mammalian predator. The most efficient detection techniques included large tracking tunnels and hair tubes for feral cats (Felis catus), large tracking tunnels for European hedgehogs (Erinaceus europaeus), and WaxTags for brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecula). Using our data to simulate a reduction in survey effort, we found that detection rates would be significantly reduced only when devices were at very low densities. We show also that 371 nights of monitoring are needed for a 90% probability of detection by our most efficient techniques. Our findings emphasise the merit of using more than one technique to detect a species, and we recommend that detection devices are left open for at least 10 nights. Finally, we highlight the need for further research to develop standardised monitoring protocols for introduced mammalian predators in New Zealand's non-forested habitats.
24056195|There are currently many attempts in New Zealand to restore native ecosystem functioning through the intensive control of introduced mammalian predators. One system that is faltering is bird pollination of endemic mistletoes (Peraxilla tetrapetala) by bellbirds (Anthornis melanura), apparently because of stoat (Mustela erminea) predation. We used a paired-catchment experiment in Nothofagus solandri var. cliffortioides forest at Craigieburn, central South Island, to measure whether stoat control could restore bellbird densities and mistletoe pollination. Stoat trapping for 1012 weeks during the 2000/01 and 2001/02 nesting seasons significantly reduced stoat abundance in the treatment area compared with the non-treatment area. As a consequence, bellbird nest survival and densities increased immediately and significantly in the treatment area. Nests in 2000/01 were four times more likely to succeed in the treatment area (66.4%) than in the non-treatment area (16.4%), where video monitoring showed stoats were the key predator. Bellbird numbers per 5-minute count increased 79%. Such a large response following a small-scale stoat control operation suggests that predators limited the Craigieburn bellbird population. Adult bellbirds seem to be less susceptible than eggs and chicks to predation, as bellbird densities were still significantly elevated 24 months after trapping ceased. However, the increase in bellbird densities did not significantly improve mistletoe pollination. Therefore, the stoat trapping was only partially successful in restoring ecosystem functioning.
24054511|The density of rabbits (Oryctolagus cuniculus) in the modified tussock grasslands of the Mackenzie Basin, South Island, New Zealand, in August-September 1991 was determined within 26 1-ha quadrats spread over 1000 ha. The area was poisoned with 1080-carrot baits and dead and live rabbits counted. The overall kill rate was 93%. Wide variability in rabbit densities amongst the quadrats was correlated with burrow density, but vegetation was not a significant predictor of rabbit numbers. High density quadrats were not all spatially clumped together. Variation amongst quadrats of 0-43% of rabbits dying underground shows that searching burrows as well as the surface will provide the most accurate rabbit densities. Poisoning efficacy was 90% in 77% of the quadrats, but two low-density quadrats recorded kill rates <70%. Nine per cent of carcasses had been partly eaten by predators, suggesting a potential for the predators to be killed during rabbit control operations via secondary poisoning. The average density of 19 rabbits per ha confirms the classification of this area as a moderate to high rabbit-prone zone, with the rabbit population imposing grazing pressure equivalent to at least 1-2 sheep per ha at the beginning of spring. Sustainable agriculture cannot be attained in these semi-arid regions of New Zealand without cheap, widespread and effective rabbit control.
24058174|This study assessed the level of utilization by mosquitoes of the available phytotelm habitats in indigenous forests in the Wellington region (New Zealand). The native epiphyte Collospermum hastatum was found to be the most abundant source of larval mosquito habitats in local native forests, but no mosquito larvae were recorded in the plants' leaf axils. Apart from these epiphytes, the local forests were found to have few natural breeding containers, and the only other relevant type of phytotelm habitat for mosquitoes was tree holes. The single mosquito species recorded was the exotic Ochlerotatus notoscriptus, whose larvae occurred in 23% (9/39) of the water-bearing tree holes in the region. The results provided some evidence that larval mosquito habitats in the region are underutilized.
24060809|New Zealand robins are thought to be vulnerable to poisoning by sodium fluoroacetate (1080), because individual birds found dead after aerial pest control operations have tested positive for 1080. We investigated the impacts of an aerial 1080 operation (preceded by non-toxic prefeeding) to control brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) on the survival and breeding success of a robin population at Silver Peaks, Dunedin environs, South Island, New Zealand. We monitored the survival of individual marked robins and their nesting success before and after the 1080 application. Robins were also monitored at a non-treatment site at nearby Silverstream. The possum control operation at Silver Peaks reduced rats (Rattus rattus), possums and mice (Mus musculus) to very low numbers, which remained low for at least 3 months. In contrast, at Silverstream, pest numbers remained high throughout the study. All individually colour-banded robins monitored in the treatment area (n = 19) plus five unbanded territorial birds were resighted post-drop, indicating that no known birds died as a direct result of the poison application. Nesting success in the treatment area, measured as daily survival rate, was higher than in the non-treatment area, and did not significantly differ between the breeding seasons before and after the poison drop. Our study showed that the 1080 operation did not adversely affect the robin population at Silver Peaks, but did reduce important nest predators (rats and possums) to low levels. Although there was no evidence of a positive indirect impact on nesting success through the reduction in predators, rat and possum abundances were relatively low at Silver Peaks (cf. Silverstream) prior to the 1080 drop, and vary from year to year. We recommend continued monitoring over several seasons to ascertain whether 1080 operations have any long-term benefits for robins at Silver Peaks.
24060734|Index counts are commonly used to detect spatial and temporal changes in the size of wildlife populations. For indices to be valid there must be constant (usually linear) relationship between the index and population size. In a study conducted in the Eglinton Valley (Fiordland, South Island, New Zealand), single-day index counts of common skinks (Oligosoma polychroma) from artificial retreats were compared with capturemarkrecapture (CMR) estimates of population size (N) obtained by pitfall trapping. Generalised linear models revealed that skink counts from artificial retreats provided a reasonably accurate (P < 0.05) and highly precise (P < 0.001) index of population size, but only if sampling was conducted under optimal weather conditions. Density ranged from 3639 (25916827; 95% CI) to 9245 (634616431) skinks ha1, which was high compared with other common skink populations. We recommend: (1) long-term monitoring of common skinks in the Eglinton Valley, using the index method described herein; (2) calibration of index counts against population size estimates collected from other habitats and species.
24060613|Figure of Eight Island is located in the southern end of the Auckland Islands and hosts the smallest breeding colony of New Zealand (NZ) sea lions (Phocarctos hookeri). Between 1995/96 and 2005/06, pup production in this colony decreased by 57% (from 144 to 62 pups). In contrast, there was a 30% decrease in pup production in the largest colony in the north-east of the Auckland Islands over the same period. NZ sea lions in the Auckland Islands area are subject to by-catch deaths and resource competition from subantarctic trawl fisheries. The present study investigated where four lactating females from Figure of Eight Island foraged during the austral summer of 2007/08 and compared their foraging areas with female NZ sea lions from the northern Auckland Islands breeding locations (Enderby and Dundas islands) and with fisheries activities. Females foraged south of Adams Island (the southernmost Auckland Island), predominantly at the edge of the Auckland Islands shelf, but those from Figure of Eight Island made shorter foraging trips within more concentrated areas than females from Enderby or Dundas islands. The 59 female NZ sea lions satellite-tracked to date from Figure of Eight, Enderby and Dundas islands foraged over the entire area of the Auckland Islands shelf and many (including three of the four females from Figure of Eight Island) had extensive overlap with subantarctic trawl fisheries. Further research is needed to determine whether the foraging behaviour of females from Figure of Eight Island is linked to their greater decline in pup production.
24054766|Large scale aerial poison operations with 1080-carrot baits are used extensively to control possum (Trichosurus vulpecula) populations in New Zealand forests for ecosystem conservation purposes and to stop the spread of bovine tuberculosis. Although various procedures have been implemented to reduce the incidence of bird kills, dead birds continue to be found after poison operations. Colour-banded North Island robins (Petroica australis longipes) were monitored in treatment and non-treatment areas to determine the costs and benefits of aerial 1080-carrot bait operations to robin populations. An August 1996 operation, that included much chaff or fine particles of bait, resulted in 43% mortality of territorial birds (banded and unbanded) or 55% mortality of colour-banded birds. During the same period there was no robin mortality in the non-treatment area. By comparison, the September 1997 operation, that included minimal amounts of chaff, resulted in just 8.6% and 9.7% robin mortality as determined by territory mapping and of banded birds, respectively. These levels of mortality did not differ significantly from that evident in the non-treatment area. Monitoring of possums and rats indicated that both populations were at very low densities and remained so during the robin nesting seasons (September-February) following the operations. Robin breeding was particularly successful in the treatment areas following the two poison operations (mean of 3.7 and 3.8 fledglings per pair) compared with that in the non-treatment area in 1996-97 (0.4 fledglings per pair) and in the post-treatment area in 1997-98 (1.5 fledglings per pair). Through recruitment of the fledglings, both populations had more robins and a greater proportion of females one year after the possum control operations than immediately before. Thus the results suggest that as long as carrot bait protocols are strictly adhered to and baits are distributed over large blocks of forest so that mammalian predator populations remain low during the next robin nesting season, the robin populations will benefit from aerial 1080-carrot possum control operations.
24060902|We developed a new automated recorder, powered by a 12-volt battery, to monitor activity patterns of wild animals marked with passive integrated transponders (PIT tags). The recorder was used to monitor Chatham Island taiko (Pterodroma magentae), a critically endangered seabird species with remote and dispersed breeding burrows. We collected information on annual return rates of individuals and pairs, dates of return and departure for the courtship and egg-laying periods, duration and dates of incubation shifts and also chick feeding visits. Taiko return to their burrows in September and October each year to mate. Return dates are independent of moon phase. Females can spend as little as one day ashore during the month-long courtship period. The pre-laying exodus averages 55 and 51 days for females and males respectively. The three main incubation shifts average 1415 days each but some shifts can be as long as 19 days. Adults feed their chicks 3235 times over a 3-month period, with males feeding their chicks more often than females. We discuss problems encountered during the development and field testing of the new PIT tag recorders, but also the benefits of these devices over conventional monitoring techniques for cavity-nesting birds.
24060712|Avian herbivores dominated New Zealand's pre-settlement terrestrial ecosystems to an unparalleled extent, in the absence of a terrestrial mammal fauna. Approximately 50% (88 taxa) of terrestrial bird species consumed plant foliage, shoots, buds and flowers to some degree, but fewer than half these species were major herbivores. Moa (Dinornithiformes) represent the greatest autochthonous radiation of avian herbivores in New Zealand. They were the largest browsers and grazers within both forest and scrubland ecosystems. Diverse waterfowl (Anatidae) and rail (Rallidae) faunas occupied forests, wetlands and grasslands. Parrots (Psittacidae) and wattlebirds (Callaeidae) occupied a range of woody vegetation types, feeding on fruits/seeds and foliage/fruits/nectar, respectively. Other important herbivores were the kereru (Columbidae), stitchbird (Notiomystidae) and two honeyeaters (Meliphagidae). Cryptic colouration, nocturnal foraging and fossil evidence suggest that avian populations were strongly constrained by predation. With the absence of migratory avian herbivores, plant structural, constitutive defences prevailed, with the unusual 'wire syndrome' representing an adaptation to limit plant offtake by major terrestrial avian browsers. Inducible plant defences are rare, perhaps reflecting long-standing nutrient-limitations in New Zealand ecosystems. Evidence from coprolites suggests moa were important dispersers of now rare, annual, disturbance-tolerant herb species, and their grazing may have maintained diverse prostrate herbs in different vegetation types. The impact of moa on forest structure and composition remains speculative, but many broadleaved woody species would likely have experienced markedly reduced niches in pre-settlement time. Several distinctive avian-mediated vegetation types are proposed: dryland woodlands, diverse turf swards, coastal herb-rich low-forest-scrubland, and conifer-rich forests. Since human settlement (c. 750 yrs ago), c. 50% of endemic avian herbivore species or c. 40% overall have become extinct, including all moa, 60% of waterfowl and 33% of rail species. Numerically, avian herbivore introductions (c. 24 taxa) since European settlement have compensated for extinctions (c. 27 taxa), but the naturalised birds are mostly small, seed-eating species restricted to human-modified landscapes. Several naturalised species (e.g. Canada goose, Branta canadensis; brown quail, Coturnix ypsilophorus) may provide modes and levels of herbivory comparable with extinct species. The original avian and current introduced mammal herbivore regimes were separated by several centuries when New Zealand lacked megaherbivores. This 'herbivory hiatus' complicates comparisons between pre-settlement and current herbivore systems in New Zealand. However, predation, animal mobility, feeding mode, nutrient transfer patterns and soil impacts were different under an avian regime compared with current mammalian herbivore systems. Levels of ecological surrogacy between avifauna and introduced mammals are less evident. Ungulates generally appear to have impacts qualitatively different from those of the extinct moa. Because ofNew Zealand's peculiar evolutionary history, avian herbivores will generally favour the persistence of indigenous vegetation, while mammalian herbivores continue to induce population declines of select plant species, change vegetation regeneration patterns, and generally favour the spread and consolidation of introduced plant species with which they share an evolutionary history.
24058145|Damage by introduced brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) to Pinus radiata trees was assessed in 41 compartments of a commercial forestry plantation on the Coromandel Peninsula, New Zealand. All the trees assessed were less than 3 years old. Possum damage in the compartments was low (median prevalence 3.3%) but highly variable (range 030%). Eight of 37 measured habitat factors differed significantly (P < 0.05) between the sites with damaged and undamaged trees. The best predictor of mean damage was stand age, but this explained only 21% of the variation in damage among compartments. Including both stand age and New Zealand bracken (Pteridium esculentum) cover improved the model significantly and explained 36% of variation in damage. Damage was apparently unrelated to compartment size, distance from the compartment boundary, and possum den-site availability. Surprisingly, the relationship between browse damage and a trap-catch index of possum abundance was weakly negative (rs=0.53, P=0.05). The dense understorey associated with young pine stands tends to increase possum damage to associated P. radiata trees, but the possums in such stands may be less mobile at ground level and thus less easily trapped. Assessment of stand age and understorey characteristics, together with visual inspection for early signs of damage, is likely to be more cost-effective than possum surveys for identifying forest compartments at risk from possum browse.
24060743|The distinctiveness of New Zealand's large endemic orthopterans and lack of small mammals in our forest ecosystems led to the description of weta as ecologically equivalent to rodents in other countries. We review the use of this metaphor and the characteristics, such as diet and reproductive behaviour, given to support it. We note, however, that species are rarely specified when comparisons are made, thereby neglecting the ecological diversity of both weta and rodents. We suggest that if these taxa are to be compared, the details of their ecology are important and the scale of their influence in an ecosystem must be taken into account. We consider in particular the relevance of the 'invertebrate mouse' clich in understanding evolutionary ecology in New Zealand and find it misleading. We show that reproductive potential and scale of change in population size differ greatly between mice and tree weta. We find that endothermic mice (Mus musculus) have a metabolic rate almost 20 times faster than ectothermic tree weta (Hemideina sp.), an intrinsic rate of increase some 275 times higher, and consume a high quality diet dominated by seeds and invertebrates and devoid of leaves, in contrast to tree weta diets. Comparative quantitative analyses of the influence of different animals on ecosystem services, biomass, nutrient cycling and energy turnover of forests in New Zealand and elsewhere will contribute to interpretation of the evolutionary history of the New Zealand biota.
24053571|Stem density, basal area, vegetation cover and vegetation surface area were compared as measures of the proportions of plant species present in North Okarito Forest, South Westland, for use in determining bird preferences for plant species. In general, stem density estimates of the proportions of canopy species were about 10 times lower than basal area estimates. The converse was true for estimates of the proportions of sub-canopy and understorey species. The proportions estimated from vegetation cover and vegetation surface area were similar for most species, and were intermediate between the proportions estimated from stem density and basal area. However, in the upper forest tiers, vegetation cover gave lower estimates for the proportions of canopy species and higher estimates for the proportions of sub-canopy species than given by vegetation surface area. These differences affect calculation of bird preferences for plant species. We recommend vegetation surface area as a measure of the proportional availability of plant species to birds because it is appropriate to most birds in New Zealand forests, is likely to be more accurate than visual estimates of vegetation cover, and can be measured on the same plots separately for trunks, branches, foliage, and fruit.
24054751|We analysed biomass allocation of Pleurophyllum speciosum (Asteraceae) and Anisotome latifolia (Apiaceae) to explore the 'megaherb' phenomenon, the apparent importance of large-leaved, colourful forbs on southern oceanic offshore islands. The two species had similar shoot dry weights, with high leaf:stem ratios. Even within the megaherb form there are differences in shoot allocations, with Pleurophyllum investing more biomass in rhizome than foliage, compared with Anisotome. The megaherb form might be attributable to responses to the physical environment, involving the pre-emption of resources such as light, nutrients, water, or space; alternatively it may be related to the paucity of woody species at this latitude.
24052397|The Ecological Society supports in principle the reserve proposals being formulated by the Scientific Co-ordinating Committee for Beech Research and recognises the need for a continuation of the Committee's review of reserves. It doubts that proper notice has yet been taken of the needs of the indigenous avifauna or that typing of forests is sufficiently precise to ensure that representative areas can yet be delineated for reservation. The Society is emphatically opposed to reduction of existing and proposed reserve areas to meet short-falls in podocarp timber. The Society also endorses, in principle, parts of the new indigenous forest policy published by the Forest Service that relate to retention of native forest cover and sustained yield of podocarps and beech.
24056327|Reproductive phenology is likely to vary spatially with environmental conditions that alter microclimate, in particular temperature. We hypothesized that within the same plant community type, environmental changes produced by recent burning would alter plant phenological patterns and temporal structure of the plant community. Specifically, we predicted accelerated flowering and fruiting dates in the burned, open environment compared with the unburned, intact community. We tested this hypothesis in a post-fire tall shrubland (matorral) in northwestern Patagonia, Argentina. During the reproductive season, phenological stages of seven vascular plant species were monitored weekly. Temperature, humidity, soil nutrients and photosynthetically-active radiation were also recorded. At the burned site, flowering began earlier in all species and the success rate of fruiting was higher. These patterns correlated with significant environmental differences, including higher mean temperatures at the burned site.
24056326|We identified nest predators of two European thrush and three European finch species in the central North Island, New Zealand, using artificial clay eggs in active natural nests. The acceptance of the artificial egg by females was 75%, with low rates of female egg ejection (7%) or desertion (7%). Due to high predation rates we could not confirm the acceptance of six (11%) artificial eggs before predation occurred. Of the 57 nests that received an artificial egg 30 were preyed upon. We were able to successfully identify predators from 18 (60%) nests by imprints left in the artificial eggs, with rats (Rattus sp.), Australasian Harriers (Circus approximans) and Australian magpie (Gymnorhina tibicen) accounting for nine, eight and one of the predatory events respectively. In the remaining twelve predatory events imprints were too faint or no marks were left on the clay egg for identification. This study successfully demonstrates the use of an inexpensive, seldom-used method for quantifying and identifying nest predators, with low rates of nest abandonment and high rates of predator identification. We believe this method could add valuable information for future studies of nest predation in New Zealand.
24052601|Diels (1897) first put forward a climatic hypothesis for the origin of divaricating plants. This hypothesis has been elaborated by subsequent authors and is further extended herein. In contrast, Greenwood and Atkinson (1977) proposed that the divaricating shrub form evolved as a protection against moa-browsing. These two hypotheses are critically compared and it is concluded that the climatic hypothesis better explains the ecology, distribution and morphology of divaricating plants. Divaricating plants are adapted to existing non-forest and forest margin habitats and it is suggested that they arose during the harsh, near-treeless glacial periods of the Pleistocene. The main function of the divaricating form is to protect growing points and leaves from wind abrasion, desiccation and frost damage. Also, a favourable microclimate is maintained inside the shrub and this may permit higher rates of photosynthesis during periods of adverse weather. Distribution and ecology of divaricating plants are related to these factors. We consider divaricating plants evolved in New Zealand as one of the responses of a sub-tropical flora, isolated from sources of artic-, alpine-, and desert-adapted plants, to the onset of harsh glacial climates.
24056161|Three different models of bovine tuberculosis (Tb) in brushtail possums were evaluated against their stated purpose, and testable assumptions and predictions evaluated against available data where possible. Not surprisingly, two of the models may be falsified based on currently available data with respect to either important model assumptions or predictions, and the third may suffer from being right for the wrong reason. This does not mean that these models are not useful. To the contrary, I argue that all models, especially those published in the scientific literature have largely addressed their stated purpose, and have contributed to our understanding of and ability to manage bovine tuberculosis infection in brushtail possum populations. No model, however, satisfactorily explains the pronounced spatial clustering of possum Tb, and the models critiqued have provided little strong inference as to the routes of transmission of Tb among possums. This situation is not helped by the scarcity of datasets on Tb in uncontrolled possum populations that are readily available to confront competing possum/Tb models with. As time passes, there is a very real risk that these data sets will be lost. This is of particular concern, as the expansion in the area of New Zealand under active possum management means the future opportunity to collect further data on Tb in uncontrolled possum populations is severely limited.
24060699|Leaf lifespan varies widely among plant species, from a few weeks to >40 years. This variation is associated with differences in plant form and function, and the distribution of species along resource gradients. Longer leaf lifespans increase the residence time of nutrients and are one mechanism by which plants conserve nutrients; consequently, leaf lifespan should increase within species with declining soil nutrient availability. The Franz Josef chronosequence is a series of post-glacial surfaces along which soil fertility declines strongly with increasing soil age. We used this fertility gradient to test whether leaf lifespans of six common indigenous woody species increased as soil nutrient availability declined. Leaf lifespan varied from 12.4 months in Coprosma foetidissima (Rubiaceae) to 47.1 months in Pseudopanax crassifolius (Araliaceae). These leaf lifespans sample 12% of the full range of leaf lifespans reported globally and occupy a relatively conservative portion of global leaf trait space. Contrary to our expectations, leaf lifespan of two species (Pseudopanax crassifolius and Prumnopitys ferruginea) decreased by 4461 % with increasing soil age and there were no other relationships between soil age and leaf lifespan. Across all species, leaf nutrient residence times increased by 85% for N and 90% for P with declining soil fertility, but this was caused by increased nutrient resorption efficiency rather than by increased leaf longevity. These data demonstrate that plants increase leaf nutrient resorption efficiency rather than leaf lifespan as a within-species response to long-term declines in soil fertility.
24053650|The anti-predator behaviours of a New Zealand freshwater crayfish (Paranephrops zealandicus) to the native long-finned eel (Anguilla dieffenbachii) and the introduced brown trout (Salmo trutta) were investigated. Crayfish modified their behaviour in the presence of both trout and eels. However, a significantly greater number of defensive chela displays and swimming responses were made to eels than trout. Crayfish were able to use chemical cues from skin mucus to detect eels but not trout. Paranephrops zealandicus is able to make some appropriate defensive behavioural responses to the introduced brown trout as well as to its native predator, the long-finned eel. However, crayfish may be at greater risk from the introduced predator because of their apparent inability to detect trout using non-contact chemical cues. This may be a reflection of the different co-evolutionary histories crayfish have had with trout and eels.
24058187|Introduced brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) are controlled over large parts of New Zealand to protect canopy trees. The condition of canopy trees is one of the cues used to trigger possum control, but selecting an indicator of canopy tree condition is difficult because many factors unrelated to possum browsing can affect canopy condition, and indices based on canopy scoring may not always quickly detect real changes in possum herbivory. We therefore investigated the usefulness of the percentage of fallen mahoe (Melicytus ramiflorus) and kamahi (Weinmannia racemosa) leaves browsed by possums ('fallen-leaf browse' or 'FLB') as a trigger for control aimed at protecting these tree species. We collected leaves falling from kamahi and mahoe trees every two months for two years at two study areas in the central North Island, one with initially high possum abundance (Oriuwaka) and the other with low possum abundance (Otupaka). We classified each of 92 384 leaves as either not-browsed, possum-browsed or insect-browsed. There was a strong and similar seasonal pattern in the mean number of fallen leaves per tree for both mahoe and kamahi at both study areas; fewest leaves fell in winter, and the most leaves fell in spring and early summer. Mahoe and kamahi FLB exhibited a similar seasonal pattern at both areas, being lowest in winter and highest in spring and early summer. FLB for both mahoe and kamahi declined following control of possums to low densities at Oriuwaka. The proportion of fallen mahoe and kamahi leaves browsed by possums was small compared with those browsed by insects or not browsed. We show that spring/early summer (i.e. SeptemberDecember) is the best period for sampling FLB and that the mean FLB can be estimated with a CV of 20% if one trap is randomly placed under the canopy of each of 24 randomly located trees. However, CVs were much larger in other seasons and when possum abundance was low. We consider FLB to be a sensible trigger for initiating possum control when the objective of control is to protect canopy trees, but further work is needed to determine the relationships between possum abundance, FLB, canopy condition, and key tree demographic rates.
24053672|The preferences of a captive herd of goats with feral ancestry were evaluated for 11 artificial pest control baits and commercial stock feed pellets. A commercial stock food pellet (based on barley, bran, and oats) was the most preferred basic bait. A mixture of 2% diced Griselinia littoralis (broadleaf) leaves (a preferred natural food plant) and 2% molasses (per weight of basic bait) increased palatability of this basic bait. The best lured bait was aerially sown at 1 kg ha1 in a 380 ha area with about 50 feral goats. Only 25% of the goats were shown by the biological tracer iophenoxic acid to have eaten baits after 8 days. We conclude that one-hit aerial poisoning of goats is unlikely to be effective as a control method because most goats are unlikely to eat food from off the ground.
24060664|It is usually uncertain when to declare success and stop control in pest eradication operations that rely on successive reductions of the population. We used the data collected during a project to eradicate feral cats from San Nicolas Island, California to estimate both the number of cats remaining towards the end of the project, and the amount and type of surveillance effort required to declare successful eradication after the last known cat was removed. Fifty seven cats were removed between June 2009 and April 2010 and our model estimated that there was a 95% chance that a further 1 to 4 cats remained, with 1 cat being the most likely number. After this time a further two cats were detected and removed and the model predicted this outcome with a probability of 0.25. If managers wished to confirm eradication success at this point, we estimated that 55 km of effort searching for recent evidence of cats over the whole island without detecting any would provide 99% certainty that no cats remained (stopping rule 1). Alternatively, the optimal amount of search effort for evidence that minimized the joint cost of searching and the cost of wrongly declaring eradication was 75 km (stopping rule 2). The equivalent amount of camera-nights (26 cameras were available) required to declare successful eradication were 416 (stopping rule 1) and 1196 camera nights (stopping rule 2). During the confirmation phase, 270 km of sign search effort and 3294 camera-nights surveillance were used from late June 2010, when the last cat was removed, through August 2010, without detecting signs of survivors. Managers can be very confident that eradication has been successful.
24054768|This study was initiated in response to concerns that vertebrate pest control operations in New Zealand may be having deleterious impacts on invertebrate populations and, secondarily, on insectivorous non-target vertebrate populations. Invertebrates feeding on non-toxic baits of the types used for vertebrate pest control were collected and identified. The bait types were diced carrots and three types of cereal-based baits (No.7, RS5, and AgTech). The study was conducted in two rata/kamahi dominated forests (Bell Hill Scenic Reserve and Kopara Forest, West Coast), in July and September 1996. The most common species found on baits was the ant Huberia brouni (Hymenoptera: Formicidae). Other common taxa were Orthoptera (at least eight species of weta including Zealandosandrus aff. gracilis, Gymnoplectron sp., and Pleioplectron sp.), Coleoptera (at least nine species of beetles including Saphobius nitidulus, Nestrius sp., and Phrynixus sp.), Dermaptera (at least one species of the earwig Parisolabis sp.), Opiliones (at least three species of harvestmen), and Acarina (at least three species of mites). The ants and weta were found predominately on cereal-based baits, and the beetles, earwigs, harvestmen, and mites predominantly on carrot baits. More invertebrates were found on carrot and RS5 cereal-based baits than on the other two bait types, and more on baits at night than during the day. Fewer invertebrates were found on cinnamon-flavoured baits (used for 1080-poisoning of possums) than on plain baits (used for brodifacoum-poisoning of rodents). The number of species and number of individual invertebrates found on baits were a small proportion of the number likely to be present in the forest litter. We predict that vertebrate pest control operations are unlikely to have any long-term deleterious impacts on invertebrate populations. This prediction should be tested by monitoring populations of invertebrate species, found to eat baits, during vertebrate pest control operations.
24060714|Worldwide declines in bird numbers have recently renewed interest in how well birdplant mutualisms are functioning. In New Zealand, it has been argued that bird pollination was relatively unimportant and bird-pollination failure was unlikely to threaten any New Zealand plants, whereas dispersal mutualisms were widespread and in some cases potentially at risk because of reliance on a single large frugivore, the kereru (Hemiphaga novaeseelandiae). Work since 1989, however, has changed that assessment. Smaller individual fruits of most plant species can be dispersed by mid-sized birds such as tui (Prosthemadera novaezelandiae) because both fruits and birds vary in size within a species. Only one species (Beilschmiedia tarairi) has no individual fruits small enough for this to occur. Germination of 19 fleshy-fruited species, including most species with fruits >8 mm diameter, does not depend on birds removing the fruit pulp. The few studies of fruit removal rates mostly (7 out of 10) show good dispersal quantity. So dispersal is less at risk than once thought. In contrast, there is now evidence for widespread pollen limitation in species with ornithophilous flowers. Tests on 10 of the 29 known native ornithophilous-flowered species found that in 8 cases seed production was reduced by at least one-third, and the pollen limitation indices overall were significantly higher than the global average. Birds also frequently visit flowers of many other smaller-flowered native species, and excluding birds significantly reduced seed set in the three species tested. So pollination is more at risk than once thought. Finally, analyses of both species numbers and total woody basal area show that dependence on bird pollination is unexpectedly high. Birds have been recorded visiting the flowers of 85 native species, representing 5% of the total seed-plant flora (compared with 12% of those with fleshy fruit) and 30% of the tree flora (compared with 59% with fleshy fruit). A higher percentage of New Zealand forest basal area has bird-visited flowers (37% of basal area nationally) than fleshy fruit (31%). Thus, bird pollination is more important in New Zealand than was realised, partly because birds visit many flowers that do not have classic "ornithophilous" flower morphology.
24053175|Two morphological types of brushtail possum (Trichosurus vulpecula) were introduced to New Zealand: smaller, grey possums from mainland southeastern Australia, and larger, black possums from Tasmania. Analysis of patterns of allozyme variation and allele frequencies of present-day possum populations in New Zealand and southeastern Australia indicates that populations comprised predominantly of black possums remain genetically similar to possums in Tasmania, whereas predominantly grey populations are genetically closer to Victorian and New South Wales possums. The distribution of possums in New Zealand can be accounted for at least partly by selection of stock types with respect to climate. Genetic differences between populations may have important implications for the control of possums, because Tasmanian possums have a greater resistance than mainland southeastern Australian possums to 1080 poison (sodium monofluoroacetate), which is commonly used to control possums in New Zealand.
24055347|We agree with Williams' (2003) response to our previous paper (Dungan et al., 2002) whereby data is presented in support of the contention that we overstated our argument that possums may be the only dispersal vector for large-seeded native New Zealand species. We contend that this does not alter our overall conclusions, but agree that additional work is needed to balance any potential positive effects of possums as seed dispersers against their significant negative impacts on forested ecosystems.
24058214|The kukupa or New Zealand pigeon (Hemiphaga novaeseelandiae) is gradually declining on the New Zealand mainland, due mostly to predation by introduced pest mammals including ship rats (Rattus rattus) and brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecula). We report on a co-operative project between Maori landowners, the Department of Conservation, and Manaaki WhenuaLandcare Research researchers to restore a Northland kukupa population and to examine kukupa nesting success in relation to pest abundance. Ship rats and possums were targeted by trapping and poisoning throughout Motatau Forest (350 ha) from 1997 to 1999; only possums were targeted in 2000. All 13 kukupa nests located before pest control started in late 1997 failed at the egg stage, but all seven nests located in 199899 successfully fledged young when trapping and tracking indices of possums and ship rats were less than 4%. After pest control, counts of kukupa and some other bird species increased at Motatau compared with counts in a nearby non-treatment block, suggesting numbers of adult kukupa can be increased in small forest areas by intensive pest control. This increase is due at least partly to increased nest success. Evidence from time-lapse video cameras, sign remaining at nests, and nest success rates under different pest control regimes suggest both ship rats and possums are important predators at kukupa nests.
24054461|This paper reviews current knowledge of dynamic processes in New Zealand land-water ecotones drawing on published quantitative data wherever possible. Basic ecosystem processes in forested and natural unforested land-water ecotones are compared, and dynamic processes are discussed under the following headings: time scales of change; water movement; sediment trapping and transport; dissolved nutrient dynamics; dissolved oxygen; trophic interactions. Environmental "resetting" agents such as floods, fires and storms have been shown to be important regulators of change at the land-water interface. However, an element of stability is imparted by continuous allochthonous inputs from evergreen vegetation into the water at the interface, as well as an important contribution from terrestrial insects. Stable isotope studies have shown that such inputs are translated as a carbon source through aquatic food chains in some New Zealand streams. Dynamics of sediment movement and nutrients are governed by the complex patterns of water movement along the ecotone. Patterns of water movement at this interface are controlled by obstructions to flow providing eddies and "dead zones". Manning's coefficient of drag is a convenient measure of the degree of obstruction by aquatic vegetation, fallen branches etc. Nutrient dynamics along the land-water interface of lakes and streams are affected not only in moving surface water, but also in groundwater. New Zealand studies have, in recent years, concentrated on nitrogen pathways in ground waters at the interface where denitrification is shown to be an important N sink. This is controlled largely by dissolved oxygen and prevailing redox conditions. Implications for management of New Zealand land-water ecotones where ecosystem dynamics are governed by periodic physical disruptions such as floods, fires or dry-wet cycles are discussed.
24060849|Translocation to island reserves is a common strategy in New Zealand and elsewhere for safeguarding species against introduced predators. When successful, however, the closed nature and relatively small size of many island sanctuaries can result in populations quickly reaching their carrying capacity, which in itself can present further challenges such as reduced productivity and population growth rates associated with density-dependent effects as well as increased rates of inbreeding. As part of its management strategy, small numbers of the highly endangered takahe (Porphyrio hochstetteri) were translocated during the 1980s and 90s from the last remaining natural population on the mainland of New Zealand to four offshore islands where introduced predators had been eradicated. We used logistic regression and generalised linear models to assess trends in population growth and recruitment and to evaluate whether the island metapopulation displays density-dependent effects on productivity. Our results indicate that the island metapopulation appears to have reached its carrying capacity, as reflected in an increasing ration of non-breeding to breeding adults, and recent declines in juvenile production. These density-dependent effects are likely to constrain management strategies aimed at maintaining genetic diversity and minimising inbreeding. A recommendation to increase the immigration rate of takahe onto islands via translocations of birds from the source population on the mainland may be ineffective unless surplus birds are removed.
24052613|The gizzard contents of 57 pipits and 64 skylarks collected from December 1973 to April 1976 at Huiarua Station, Tokomaru Bay are described. Pipits fed mostly on invertebrates; in only nine percent of the gizzards did the volume of seeds exceed that of invertebrates. Adult Coleoptera, Hymenoptera and Diptera occurred in 77%, 67% and 63% of the gizzards respectively while adult insects of three other orders, insect larvae, insect pupae, Arachnida and seeds of four plant families were each recorded less frequently but in 10% or more of the gizzards. Only Diptera displayed significant seasonal variation in frequency of occurrence. Skylarks ate mostly seeds; only 25% of the gizzards contained a volume of invertebrates equal to or exceeding that of seeds. Seeds of Gramineae occurred more frequently than those of any other plant family (in 73% of the skylark gizzards) and adult Coleoptera were the most frequent invertebrates (66%). Seeds of eight other plant families, adult insects of two other orders, insect larvae, insect pupae and Arachnida were each recorded in 10% or more of the gizzards. Seasonally, only Coleoptera were taken with significantly variable frequency. In addition to the difference in the relative importance volumetrically of invertebrates and seeds in each diet, significant differences were determined between pipits and skylarks in the occurrence of all the food groups most frequently consumed by each and it is concluded that the level of interspecific competition for food can not be regarded as high.
24060636|Vegetation and soils were sampled at remaining gumland heath ecosystems in northern New Zealand to determine vegetation patterns, environmental controls and major threats to long-term persistence. Classification and ordination techniques identified six vegetation types reflecting differences in drainage, rainfall, altitude, nutrients, and time since fire. Two modal types reflected opposite ends of the main environmental spectra. Leptospermum scoparium (Myrtaceae) shrubland occurred on relatively better drained sites with lower rainfall, altitude, and soil nutrient levels, whereas Gleichenia dicarpa (Gleicheniaceae) fernland typically occurred on more poorly drained sites with higher rainfall, altitude, and nutrient levels. Another widespread vegetation type dominated by both Leptospermum scoparium and Gleichenia dicarpa occupied plots of intermediate drainage, rainfall, altitude and nutrients. The three remaining types were of limited distribution and reflected uncommon combinations of environmental conditions or recent fire. Low soil nutrients in gumlands (mean total N = 0.182%, total P = 0.004%, oven-dry weight) are reflected in low Leptospermum scoparium foliage nutrients (mean total N = 0.858%, total P = 0.034%, 15N = 6.06, oven-dry weight) and slow growth rates (mean annual height growth rate = 11.90 cm year1), as in heathlands in Australia and South Africa. Gumlands are threatened by non-native plant species invasion, especially Hakea sericea (Proteaceae); habitat destruction for agricultural, industrial, and suburban development; and nutrient enrichment from adjacent agricultural land. Currently, fire is much less common in gumlands (mean time since fire = 18.4 years) than during early European settlement and some communities are apparently reverting to forest. Research to investigate the use of fire as a management tool is recommended for long-term conservation of New Zealand gumlands.
24058221|Five-minute bird counts were made on Rangitoto Island in 1998 and 1999, 8 and 9 years after the start, and 1 and 2 years after the completion of a 7-year programme that resulted in eradication of the introduced brushtail possum (Trichosurus vulpecula) and brushtailed rock wallaby (Petrogale penicillata). These were compared with counts made in 1990 (immediately before the start of the programme), to assess whether bird species diversity and abundance had increased as a result of the eradications. The number of bird species detected in 1998/99 was similar to 1990. Five-minute counts of all species except silvereye (Zosterops lateralis) and tui (Prosthemadera novaeseelandiae) were also similar in 1998/99 to those in 1990. Silvereye and tui counts increased significantly. This is most likely a response to increased flowering of pohutukawa (Metrosideros excelsa) and rewarewa (Knightia excelsa) as a result of possum (and wallaby) eradication. The most likely reason for no apparent increase in the abundance of other bird species is the continued presence of predators, especially ship rats (Rattus rattus), cats (Felis catus), and stoats (Mustela erminea).
24053266|To test the hypothesis that the divaricate habit protects internal leaves from cold and dry conditions, and raises leaf temperatures on cold sunny days, thermocouples were attached to internal and external leaves on divaricate plants. For Coprosma propinqua plants at Cass, inland Canterbury, there were consistent differences in temperature between leaves, but these were not simply related to their canopy position (internal vs. external). While leaf temperatures fell as low as 9.5C on frosty nights, internal leaves were not consistently warmer (between 0.28C warmer and 0.04C colder) than external leaves. Consistent differences in temperature between leaves were not clearly related to their position or degree of exposure. Internal leaves near the top of the canopy were often close in temperature to external leaves at the same height. Specific humidity was higher inside the bush than outside, but again the effect was small. On calm, sunny winter days, internal leaves were usually slightly cooler than external leaves. For Hoheria angustifolia on the Port Hills, there was only a slight temperature difference between internal and external leaves (0.3 to 0.5C). Overall, the temperature and humidity data give little support to the climate hypothesis. However, there was more damage (apparently due to frost) to Coprosma propinqua leaves on the outside of bushes over winter 1989, suggesting that the biological significance of the divaricate habit may be greater than these physical data would indicate.
24056344|Brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) tend to eat young canopy foliage in southern rt (Metrosideros umbellata), and browsing tends to be concentrated on only a few trees. Samples collected as part of an artificial defoliation experiment were analysed for NPK (nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium), carbohydrate, and polyphenolic concentrations to determine whether changes in foliar chemistry associated with defoliation provide an explanation for these patterns of browsing. In non-defoliated trees, NPK concentrations were highest in young leaves and declined with age, while concentrations of carbohydrates and polyphenolics were independent of leaf age. Nitrogen, phosphorus and polyphenolic concentrations were consistently higher in canopy (sun) versus subcanopy (shade) foliage regardless of leaf age, a trend that was reversed for potassium. Partial (50%) defoliation had little effect on foliar chemistry, regardless of its timing. Total (100%) defoliation stimulated NPK concentrations and depressed condensed tannin concentrations of new foliage produced by the surviving shoots. These results suggest that brushtail possums may focus their feeding on only a few trees because of nutritional changes to leaves as a result of browsing.
24058220|Negative effects of human presence and activities on breeding success and survival of many water bird species are well documented. The New Zealand dabchick (Poliocephalus rufopectus) is a protected endemic New Zealand grebe, confined to the North Island mainland and classified as vulnerable. A third of the total New Zealand dabchick population live on the lakes of the central volcanic plateau, where there is potential conflict between humans and dabchicks. We used data from two independent surveys describing the distribution of New Zealand dabchicks to investigate the effect that human-made structures (i.e. jetties and houses) and human recreational activities (i.e. boating) have on the numbers of New Zealand dabchick pairs, chicks and nests in the bays of Lake Rotoiti, Tarawera and Okareka. Our results suggest that human-made structures and recreational activities are not significantly affecting the numbers and distribution of New Zealand dabchick pairs or nests at this time. Furthermore, the number of human-made structures was positively correlated with the number of chicks in the sampled bays. Humans and dabchicks may be distributed similarly around the lakes because factors such as wind exposure and shoreline topography made certain sites preferable for both species. Alternatively, human-made structures may provide protected nesting environments and/or cover for chicks from predators, refuges from harassment by other bird species, or other benefits. Pairs may therefore be able to raise chicks to the fledging stage more successfully. However, little is currently known about dabchick life history or population dynamics. We recommend that a method of capturing and marking be developed so that further monitoring of behavioural and population changes can be carried out. It is also necessary to conduct research on how boats and human activities at jetties affect incubating dabchicks and their young during the nesting phase.
24054550|To determine the susceptibility of different forest types to lianes, and to investigate which ecological factors are limiting for lianes, a field survey covering 28 naturally forested sites in Golden Bay (Northwest Nelson) and on Banks Peninsula (Canterbury) was carried out. Results from Detrended Canonical Correspondence Analysis of liane species abundance data in relation to tree and shrub species abundance data and abiotic site variables, showed that the liane community composition was highly correlated with the composition of the tree and shrub community. Forest remnants with introduced lianes in the canopy were characterised by high soil pH, low altitude and high mean temperatures. Native lianes were more widespread geographically and showed a wider ecological tolerance range than introduced lianes. Native liane species were found in both early successional and mature forest, whereas introduced lianes occurred more often with early-successional vegetation. Forest canopy height was also an important factor affecting liane distribution and abundance. Both climbing mechanism and liane stem longevity seemed to affect the height of canopy accessible to lianes. The three twining lianes with longer-lived woody stems (Muehlenbeckia australis, Parsonsia spp. and Ripogonum scandens) reached higher host canopies than a twiner with herbaceous stems (Calystegia tuguriorum), a tendril climber (Passiflora mollisima), and a hook climber (Rubus cissoides). The susceptibility of individual tree and shrub species to canopy invasion by lianes was affected both by the light environment of the potential host, and the architectural properties (height and support availability) of the host.
24060764|Bryophytes are widespread in many plant communities and can attain cover and biomass levels that influence ecosystem processes. We investigated the impact of disturbance (fire, topsoil removal) on the composition, biomass, and water storage capacity of bryophytes in indigenous temperate tall-tussock grasslands managed to sustain an ecosystem service (regular provision of water) to nearby urban areas. We surveyed bryophyte composition, structure and water-related traits 9 years after experimental fires and topsoil removal. Total water storage capacity of non-epiphytic bryophytes in control grassland sites was estimated at 4.3 mm, a value similar to that found in temperate New Zealand forests. Total biomass, species composition, and water-related traits were the main drivers of water storage potential from bryophytes. A major shift in bryophyte species composition following disturbances reduced this potential by over 80%. Bryophyte community changed from a dense ground cover (71%) of the pleurocarpous moss Hypnum cupressiforme with high water holding capacity (c. 1400% of dry mass) in control plots, to low frequency of the colonist moss Polytrichum juniperinum in burned plots, and two Campylopus species in areas with topsoil removed for firebreaks (all three displaying a low water holding capacity of less than 800% dry mass). We concluded that despite their low species diversity (12 species in total in undisturbed sites), bryophytes form a major, previously unrecognised, component of indigenous tall-tussock grasslands in New Zealand, and contribute towards sustaining the valued water holding capacity of these systems. Like the tussock dominants, bryophytes and their associated ecological functions are highly susceptible to long-term impacts from burning and vegetation clearance. It is therefore critical to account for the recovery of bryophytes in the management of indigenous tall-tussock grasslands to maintain healthy ecosystems.
24052771|Withdrawal of the use of cheap, persistent organochlorine insecticides in New Zealand pastures has shifted the emphasis of insect pest control to non-chemical methods during the last 10-15 years. The potential of plant resistance and biological control for achieving major advances in pasture pest management are illustrated by the resistance to Argentine stem weevil (Listronotus bonariensis) of ryegrasses infected by the endophytic fungus Acremonium loliae, the reduction of Australian soldier fly (Inopus rubriceps) populations to subeconomic levels by invertebrate predators, and the effects of pathogens on grass grub (Costelytra zealandica) populations.
24054656|Five herbivorous introduced mammals are sympatric in the central Southern Alps. All of these species have the potential to affect conservation values, yet the Department of Conservation at present monitors and mitigates the impacts of only one. We outline ecological arguments for multi-species management of sympatric herbivore pest impacts and use the two-species system of sympatric thar and chamois to highlight the need for multi-species management of the central Southern Alps alpine pest community.
24060779|Agathis australis (A. australis, New Zealand kauri, Araucariaceae) exerts a substantial influence on soil properties and nutrient cycling, and mature specimens form an acidic organic soil layer beneath them that can be up to 2 m deep. We investigated whether phytotoxic compounds occurred in A. australis leaf litter and organic soil, and whether allelopathy may explain the distinctiveness of plant communities surrounding A. australis. We extracted water-soluble compounds from fresh litter, and conducted bioassays of seed germination and seedling growth in these extracts on both A. australis-associated and non-associated species. Germination of all species except A. australis was inhibited by extracts from A. australis litter, which probably contains phytotoxic compounds. Germination of a forest species that is not associated with A. australis was inhibited by the low pH organic soils collected from beneath mature A. australis, but when these soils were neutralised using lime, its germination was not inhibited. Lactuca sativa, a species highly sensitive to phytotoxic compounds, was negatively affected by both the low pH of the organic soil and the presence of phytotoxic compounds. In contrast, there was no effect of the organic soil on the germination and growth of A. australis-associated species. These results suggest that the high acidity of A. australis organic soil plays a considerable role in structuring the composition of plant communities associated with A. australis, and also that A. australis litter probably contains unidentified phytotoxic compounds that may exert additional direct allelopathic effects on sensitive species.
24056433|Extra-pair copulation (EPC) occurs frequently in hihi (stitchbird), Notiomystis cincta, resulting in a high rate of extra-pair paternity. It occurs despite resistance by females, and is often witnessed by the paired male. We studied male behaviour to assess whether extra-pair males were timing copulation attempts to coincide with peaks in female fertility, and whether paired males were behaving in ways to reduce cuckoldry. Extra-pair males concentrated copulation attempts at peaks in female fertility. Paired males attempted to defend their paternity by defending an area around the nest site, by territorial calling and displacing intruding males. The frequency of EPC attempts varied between nests and this variation mirrored closely the variation in the percentage of extra-pair paternity. Potential additional paternity guards, such as frequent copulation, did not occur in this population.
24052821|Three pairs of kiwis were fitted with radio transmitters and followed for two years in a forest remnant in Hawke's Bay. Laying began in late June or July, when both sexes reached peak weight, and usually finished in November. Twelve of 14 nests were in burrows, 470-900 mm long. Females laid 2-5 eggs each season, 21-60 days apart; clutches which failed in the first few weeks of incubation were replaced. Completed clutches comprised two eggs. A second clutch laid after the first had successfully hatched was recorded only once. Males did all of the incubating and emerged every night to feed, except when chicks were hatching. Their feeding bouts averaged 4.9 h, about half the feeding time of non-incubating kiwis. The weights of both sexes declined during the breeding season  females by about 20% and males by about 13%. Only 6 of 21 eggs laid in the two years hatched. One chick died while hatching, and two died soon afterwards. Three fledged 16-20 days after hatching, giving a productivity of 0.5 chicks/pair/year. The breeding behaviour and mating system of kiwis in Hawke's Bay are discussed.
24058123|It has been suggested that plants can change soil characteristics via their litter to favour their own species. The New Zealand kauri tree (Agathis australis) presents an interesting case for studying such a positive feedback between plant and soil because it has a huge impact upon the soil. We hypothesised that, under mature kauri trees, compared with sites outside the projection of the crown, seedlings of angiosperm trees are relatively rare, while kauri seedlings are relatively common, due to the poor soil conditions and the higher light intensity. We counted seedlings under and outside the crowns of kauri trees and correlated the presence of these seedlings to measured site conditions. The results confirm the hypotheses and indicate that the establishment of kauri seedlings is favoured by the open canopy and high light intensities below kauri. The low nutrient availability under kauri appears to be unfavourable for the survival of angiosperm seedlings but not for the survival of kauri seedlings. Since the lower nitrogen availability under kauri is due to sequestration of nitrogen in the organic layer under kauri, a positive feedback between kauri and the soil is likely.
24060717|New Zealand forests grow under highly oceanic climates on an isolated southern archipelago. They experience a combination of historical and environmental factors matched nowhere else. This paper explores whether the New Zealand tree flora also differs systematically from those found in other temperate and island areas. A compilation of traits and distributions from standard floras is used to compare the New Zealand tree flora with those of Europe, North America, Chile, southern Australia, Fiji and Hawaii. New Zealand has a large number of trees (215 species 6 m in height). It is more tree-rich than temperate North America and Europe having up to 50% more species at a quadrat scale of 2.5 latitude  2.5 longitude. However, this richness is due to a greater abundance of small trees (15 m in height) and we argue that it is a legacy of allopatric speciation and radiation during the late Neogene (2.510 million yrs ago) when the New Zealand landmass was repeatedly split into smaller island groups and mountain building occurred. The leaves of New Zealand trees, along with those of southeast Australia, are smaller and narrower than those of the temperate northern hemisphere. Dominance of the canopy by small-leaved evergreen conifers and angiosperms may have facilitated the persistence of small tree species in the lower canopy. The proportion of tree species with a deciduous or divaricating habit, and toothed-margin leaves, increases with latitude, suggesting a link with lower winter temperatures in the south. Tree species richness decreases with increasing latitude and, in conformity with Rapoport's Rule, latitudinal range width increases. Wide-range trees are mainly bird-dispersed, fast-growing seral small trees, or long-lived, tall podocarps. Wide-range trees appear to have no greater tolerance of climate extremes than narrow-range trees, and their persistence at high latitudes derives from their enhanced colonization ability.
24058196|Browsing by introduced brushtail possums is linked to major declines in mistletoe abundance in New Zealand, yet in some areas mistletoes persist, apparently unaffected by the presence of possums. To determine the cause of this spatial variation in impact I investigated the abundance and condition (crown dieback and extent of possum browse cover) of two mistletoes (Alepis flavida, Peraxilla tetrapetala) and abundance and diet of possums in two mountain beech (Nothofagus solandri var. cliffortioides) forests in the central-eastern South Island of New Zealand. Mistletoe is common and there are long-established uncontrolled possum populations in both forests. Mistletoes were abundant (2161359 per hectare) and important in possum diet (4159% of total diet), but possum density was low (c. 2 per hectare) in both areas. Possum impacts were slight with low browse frequencies and intensities over much of the study sites. However, impacts were significantly greater at a forest margin, where possum abundance was highest, and at a high-altitude site where mistletoe density was lowest. Mistletoe crown dieback was inversely proportional to intensity of possum browsing. These results suggest that the persistence of abundant mistletoe populations at these sites is due to mistletoe productivity matching or exceeding consumption by possums in these forests of low possum-carrying capacity, rather than low possum preference for the local mistletoe populations.
24055338|Artificial barriers, such as nest boxes and metal collars, are sometimes used, with variable success, to exclude predators and/or competitors from tree nests of vulnerable bird species. This paper describes the observed response of captive stoats (Mustela erminea) to a nest box design and an aluminium sheet collar used to protect kaka (Nestor meridionalis) nest cavities. The nest box, a prototype for kaka, was manufactured from PVC pipe. Initial trials failed to exclude stoats until an overhanging roof was added. All subsequent trials successfully prevented access by stoats. Trials with a 590 mm wide aluminium collar were less successful, but this was mainly due to restrictions enforced by enclosure design: Stoats gained access above the collar via the enclosure walls and ceiling. In only one of twelve trials was a stoat able to climb past the collar itself. The conservation implications of these trials and directions for future research are discussed.
24058204|Production lands make up 58% of Aotearoa New Zealand's landcover and contribute greatly not only to the national economy but also to patterns and trends in native and introduced avian biodiversity. However, unlike in native forest and other indigenous habitats, birds in agro-ecosystems have received little attention to date. We argue that this is due to (1) a research focus on understanding the causes of the dramatic decline of New Zealand's critically endangered, endemic species, (2) an adherence to a 'preservation for intrinsic value' over a 'conservation through sustainable use' paradigm for environmental management, and (3) a historical view of production landscapes as being devoid of endemic and native species and thus of no conservation value. In countering these attitudes, we suggest that the agricultural matrix may contain more native species than many people believe, and that many introduced bird species are key contributors to the social and environmental performance and resilience of these systems. We draw attention to the context, composition, ecology, and status of native and introduced birds in production landscapes in New Zealand, particularly in the face of ongoing agricultural intensification. We first identify the potential roles of local habitat, landscape composition, and introduced predators in shaping farmland bird communities. We then highlight the potential threats and opportunities for birds posed by ongoing intensification, particularly the influences of habitat modification and simplification, increased ecological subsidies through farm inputs, increased stocking rates and yields, and altered predatorprey interactions. We suggest the landscape is the appropriate spatial scale for research and management, and call for an integrated approach to the investigation of farmland birds that combines ecology, sociology, and agro-ecosystems management, and includes farmers, researchers, regulators, and the wider New Zealand public.
24058140|Native plants are an important part of New Zealand's uniqueness, and there is increasing awareness of the need to maintain these species in managed landscapes, particularly pastoral areas, in addition to the country's conservation lands. The most widely used method of establishing native plants is transplanting nursery-grown seedlings, and for many species, much experience and knowledge has been gained in using this technique. Establishment of native plants in the field by direct seeding is a potentially useful alternative techniquewhich has been evaluated in the North and South Islands only to a limited extent. This paper reviews the current state of knowledge on the direct seeding of species into pastoral areas. It covers site and species selection, seed availability and quality, site preparation, and post-sowing management. It also compares the economics of native plant establishment by transplanting and by direct seeding. Direct seeding of pastoral areas is a relatively cheap technique, but its general applicability is currently limited because of frequently inadequate supplies of viable seed, lack of knowledge on appropriate sowing times and rates, unreliable field germination and seedling emergence, and frequent intense competition from existing vegetation, particularly exotic grasses.
24060818|Less than 4% of the non-bamboo grasses worldwide abscise old leaves, whereas some 18% of New Zealand native grasses do so. Retention of dead or senescing leaves within grass canopies reduces biomass production and encourages fire but also protects against mammalian herbivory. Recently it has been argued that elevated rates of leaf abscission in New Zealand's native grasses are an evolutionary response to the absence of indigenous herbivorous mammals. That is, grass lineages migrating to New Zealand may have increased biomass production through leaf-shedding without suffering the penalty of increased herbivory. We show here for the Danthonioideae grasses, to which the majority (c. 74%) of New Zealand leaf-abscising species belong, that leaf abscission outside of New Zealand is almost exclusively a feature of taxa of montane and alpine environments. We suggest that the reduced frequency of fire in wet, upland areas is the key factor as montane/alpine regions also experience heavy mammalian grazing. Without frequent fire to remove dead leaves, detritus and woody competitors, evolution of leaf abscission is favoured, especially in large, long-lived tussocks with sclerophyllous leaves. As fire frequency was low in New Zealand before the arrival of humans, grass leaf-abscission was an evolutionary advantage whenever large tussock species shared habitat with tall woody plants.
24054434|Vegetation changes were investigated on 27 transects in agriculturally unimproved short tussock grasslands dominated by Festuca novae-zelandiae in the Harper-Avoca catchment, Canterbury. These were remeasured at 5 or 10 year intervals between 1965 and 1990. Change was widespread. It was characterised by invasions by exotic species, declines in native species (including F. novae-zelandiae), and a trend towards vegetation dominated by the flatweeds Hieracium lepidulum and H. pilosella, and the grass Agrostis capillaris. The effects of different histories of sheep-grazing were examined on the transects and on 174 quadrats established in 1988. Although prolonged grazing generally promoted decline in native species and invasion by exotic species, including H. lepidulum, these trends also developed on sites protected from grazing for 22 or 35 years. There was no evidence that the rate or extent of invasion by Hieracium pilosella was enhanced by continued sheep grazing, or that removal of grazing prevented invasion. Two common hypotheses seek to explain Hieracium success as either a symptom of ecosystem depletion or an example of an aggressive invader. However, neither hypothesis alone adequately accounts for the observed patterns of Hieracium invasion. Such single-factor explanations fail to account for interactions between the many mechanisms that affect plant populations at different spatial and temporal scales. Similarly, single-factor prescriptions for preventing or controlling Hieracium invasion, such as the removal of grazing, may not provide widespread success.
24058156|To examine the seasonal availability of the major bellbird (Anthornis melanura) food sources in a mountain beech (Nothofagus solandri var. cliffortioides) forest at Craigieburn, the invertebrate, honeydew, and mistletoe (Peraxilla tetrapetala and Alepis flavida) fruit and nectar resources were sampled over 12 months. The total available food varied 2.6-fold from a low in October (8798 kJ/ha) to a high in December (22,959 kJ/ha) with an annual mean of 15,782 kJ/ha. Invertebrates were available all year and represented 88% of the available food energy. Only 16% of the invertebrate resource was on beech foliage, and beech trunks with honeydew had 60% more invertebrate energy than trunks without honeydew. The energy value of honeydew at Craigieburn (0.9% of the total) was much lower than at lower altitude sites. The relative rankings of honeydew standing crops on 25 permanently marked trees were very constant. On an annual basis mistletoe nectar and fruit made up 6.3% and 4.9%, respectively, of total food energy, but P. tetrapetala nectar was 46% of available food in early January, and P. tetrapetala fruit was 25% of the total in March. Bellbirds spent less time foraging on invertebrates, and more time on the other foods, than energy values would predict. However, during the peak of its short flowering season, P. tetrapetala nectar made up 46% of available energy but only 33% of bellbird foraging observations. At this site P. tetrapetala is pollen limited due to insufficient visits from pollinators. This may be because bellbirds require invertebrates for protein, or to feed to nestlings. Therefore the pollination mutualism is faltering, despite high investment in nectar by the plant.
24060754|Invasive rodents pose a grave and persistent threat to New Zealand's native biodiversity. Rodent eradication is a successful conservation tool on islands. However, eradications may fail, and there is always potential for reinvasion. It is therefore essential that effective systems are in place for the early detection of rodents in the case of eradication failure or reincursion. We used data from a small New Zealand island experimentally colonised with house mice (Mus musculus) to investigate the effectiveness of selected mammal surveillance practices, including detection device choice, duration of deployment period, and device placement. The effect of population density on mouse detectability was assessed using population abundance estimates made regularly throughout the experimental island colonisation. We found that commonly used detection practices were highly effective for the detection of mice, even at low population density.
24060874|Predators at black-fronted tern (Chlidonias albostriatus) nests on the Wairau braided riverbed in Marlborough, New Zealand, were identified using (1) mtDNA analysis of 438 swabs from shell remains, nest contents, and carcass remains, and (2) digital video surveillance of 85 nests. DNA analysis suggested harriers (Circus approximans) were the main predator of tern eggs (171 of 192 shell samples containing predator DNA). Cats (Felis catus) and stoats (Mustela erminea) were the probable predators of the majority of adult terns killed (9 and 8 respectively, of swabs from 19 carcasses). Video results were broadly, though not entirely, consistent with the DNA results, and showed that harriers were the main predator of eggs (9 of 19 videoed predation events), followed by Southern black-backed gulls (Larus dominicanus dominicanus; 3/19); hedgehogs (Erinaceus europaeus occidentalis; 2/19), ship rats (Rattus rattus; 2/19), pied oystercatchers (Haematopus finschi; 2/19) and stoats (1/19). DNA was analysed from nine of the 19 videoed nests but the only predator DNA obtained was from harriers (four nests). Sixty-four percent of depredated nests (683/1063) contained no eggshell remains at the next monitoring visit after predation. DNA analysis of nest material from 71 of these empty nests yielded only one predator result; video footage was therefore essential to identify the cause of 12 empty nests at 19 videoed nest predations. Terns removed the depredated egg remains from eight nests; black-backed gulls consumed eggs at three nests; and a stoat carried the eggs away from one nest. Hedgehog DNA was not found on shell remains from nests with videoed hedgehog predations. Analysing DNA from eggshell and carcass remains is a valuable new tool in wildlife research and management because it can identify predator species and indicate their relative importance. However, our results show that predator species are not equally detectable using this technique, leading to biases in the DNA results. This 'detectability bias' needs to be further quantified, and recognised when interpreting DNA results.
24052740|The distribution and abundance of Hochstetter's frog (Leiopelma hochstetteri Fitzinger) in part of the catchment of the Motu River was assessed during two short surveys in 1981 and 1983. Specimens were found in most tributaries examined and on the banks of the main river, above extreme flood level. Crude indices of abundance were obtained by relating the numbers found to the time spent searching and number of stones and logs turned. Generally about four frogs were found per hour, but there was considerable variation in counts obtained in simultaneous searches by different observers. The highest counts were obtained in areas with stable, moss-covered substrates, shaded by overhanging vegetation. Frogs in the upper Motu River were significantly further away from the edge of streams than those in the catchment of the Takaputahi River. Most adults were dark grey or dull khaki, spotted with rust or brown, whereas juveniles less than 20mm long were bright lime green. Snout to vent lengths ranged from 15-46 mm and weights from 1.0-7.1 g. A cluster of eggs with well developed embryos was found in the catchment in March 1983.
24052636|Botanists describing the Ruahine Range prior to 1920 made no mention of the forest debility described by later writers. In the 1870s and 1880s the lowland forests were cleared from round the southern half of the range and grazing commenced on the northern and western plateaux. Opossums (Trichosurus vulpecula) were liberated in the 1880s and red deer (Cervus elaphus) first entered the range about 1900. By the mid-1920s deer had modified forests in the northern part of the range. By 1940 deer damage was extensive and opossum damage had been noted. During the 1950s some forest canopies were severely damaged by opossums, and considerable forest collapse occurred during the 1960s. There has been subsequent recovery in some places and continuing forest deterioration in others.
24054776|Brown kiwi (Apteryx mantelli) in central Northland have been monitored for up to 32 months of sustained exposure to brodifacoum poison. The cereal baits were placed in bait stations to target brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecula). Annual survival of 55 radio-tagged adult kiwi in two poisoned forest patches has been high (95.9%), and similar to that in two nearby unpoisoned forest patches and in the patches before poison was used (95.3%). The two adult birds tested of the four that died in the poisoned areas had no traces of brodifacoum at the detection limit of 0.05 mg kg1. With an improved detection limit of 0.02 mg kg1, no traces of brodifacoum were found in nine eggs collected over 18 months after adults were first exposed to the poison. Of four chicks tested (detection limit: 0.005 to 0.02 mg kg1), that had apparently died of natural causes or were killed by predators, three contained traces of brodifacoum (0.01 - 0.18 mg kg1). The median survival of 39 radio-tagged chicks in the poisoned areas (36 days) was significantly better than that of 18 chicks in untreated areas nearby (15 days). Kiwi chicks may be more vulnerable than adult kiwi to accidental poisoning because of physiological or behavioural differences; however, the effects of sustained exposure to low levels of brodifacoum poison may not be visible in the adult population for several years. At this stage of the ongoing study, the benefits to kiwi of this method of pest control outweigh the costs, because chick survival is greatly improved.
24054509|Food of the North Island kaka (Nestor meridionalis septentrionalis) on Kapiti Island was identified while quantifying the foraging activity of nine radio-tagged birds from March 1991 to January 1992. Additional food types were identified by opportunistic observation of feeding birds and qualitative examination of nestling faeces. A diverse range of food was taken, including wood-boring invertebrates, scale insects, seeds, nectar or pollen, fruits, and sap. Radio-tagged birds foraged predominantly for invertebrates over most of the year, but hinau (Elaeocarpus dentatus) seed, five-finger (Pseudopanax arboreus) nectar or pollen and tawa (Beilschmiedia tawa) seed were seasonally important food types. Most of the plant food taken by kaka on Kapiti is known to be eaten, or otherwise reduced in abundance, by Australian brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecula), a widespread potential competitor that has been eradicated from Kapiti. Annual variation in the abundance of important plant food types may explain variation in the breeding intensity of kaka on Kapiti Island.
24052704|The diet and feeding methods of kakapo (Strigops habroptilus) on Stewart Island, southern New Zealand, were studied by examining sign left by the birds. Most feeding sign was found on herbs, ferns, and shrubs, especially on new and developing growth such as leaves, bark, fruits and seeds, as well as the subterranean portions. The species on which most kakapo sign was found were Lycopodium ramulosum, L. fastigiatum, Schizaea fistulosa var. australis, Blechnum minus, B. procerum, Cyathodes juniperina, Dracophyllum longifolium, Olearia colensoi, Thelymitra venosa, Oreobolus strictus, Gahnia procera and Carex appressa. Though all (but Oreobolus and Gahnia) were fed on frequently throughout the year, variations in the use of different parts of plants occurred both seasonally and annually. The nature of the feeding sign indicated that kakapo are versatile feeders with highly variable feeding patterns, and many foods are taken opportunistically. This flexible feeding pattern allows kakapo to utilise a broad spectrum of seasonal foods which may only be available for short periods or on intermittent years.
24060651|Introduced mice were trapped in the three main vegetation types on subantarctic Auckland Island, New Zealand, over three trapping sessions, in winter 2007. Fifty mice were trapped over 675 trap-nights. Mice were caught most often in upland tussock grassland and more often in rt forest than in shrubland but there were no significant differences among the catch rates in these habitats. Upland tussock grassland appeared to have been a better vegetation type for mice, as adult females were trapped only there and mean weight of adult males was heavier there than of adult males from the other vegetation types.
24056319|The literature on wind damage in New Zealand forests is reviewed to investigate how abiotic and biotic factors influence damage severity, damage type, and forest recovery. Winds that damage forests tend to result from extra-tropical depressions or from topographically enhanced westerly air flows. Severe wind damage can occur when wind speeds exceed c. 110 km/hr, although investigating the relationship between damage and wind speeds is difficult, as gusts, for which speed is usually unrecorded, are important. Damage is often quantified by estimates of area affected, with some authors detailing the size and species of damaged trees within a given area. Key abiotic factors that influence damage patterns are topographical position, edaphic conditions, and disturbance history. Important biotic factors are tree height, tree health, position of the tree within the stand, and species. Damage type (uprooting or breakage) is primarily controlled by canopy position and rooting depth. Forest responses to wind damage include sprouting, recruitment, release, and suppression, with the dominant mode of forest recovery being strongly influenced by the severity of damage, and the species composition of the stand. As noted in international literature on wind damage, a lack of consistent methods, combined with poor species and spatial coverage, makes identifying general trends difficult. Investigating the role of wind damage in New Zealand forests has focused to date on Nothofagus forests and plantations of exotic trees and few studies have investigated long term dynamics following wind disturbance events.
24053669|A simulation model, using the often observed log-linear relationship between the relative abundance and rank of species, shows that vegetation will tend to form a series of communities of constant composition along an environmental gradient even if the constituent species are initially responding independently to those environmental changes. The discreteness of these communities increases with increasing conformity to the log-linear relationship. An index quantifying this conformity (range 0-1.0) is defined and a method for estimating it from field vegetation data devised. In three vegetation data sets tested the conformity index was 0.0, 0.32 and 0.37.
24052800|The diet of sambar deer in a Phormium tenax wetland is examined. Proportions of forage species were assessed from cuticle fragments in faeces and the nutrient quality of the food determined chemically. The deer feed selectively although at times the principal forages ingested are of poor nutritional value.
24058129|This study uses data from repeatedly measured forest monitoring plots (20  20 m) (n = 32) and nine ungulate exclosures (paired fenced and unfenced plots; 20  20 m) to show the effects of introduced ungulates on tree regeneration in Pureora Forest Park, central North Island, between 1974 and 2002. Results show that introduced ungulates, particularly red deer (Cervus elaphus scoticus), have suppressed the regeneration of hardwood species such as Coprosma grandifolia, Elaeocarpus dentatus, Griselinia littoralis, Melicytus ramiflorus, Schefflera digitata and Weinmannia racemosa. These species were only common as saplings and small trees in the complete absence of ungulate browsing. The results of this study suggest that red deer will need to be culled to low densities to assure regeneration of palatable tree species in Pureora Forest.
24056350|The naturalised European blackbird (Turdus merula) is the most widely distributed avian seed disperser in New Zealand. Together with the native silvereye (Zosterops lateralis) they are the major seed dispersers over large areas of New Zealand. I review the international literature on aspects of the ecology and behaviour of blackbirds relevant to their potential for dispersing weeds in New Zealand. Blackbirds eat a wide range of native and exotic fruit including many naturalised species. Their habitat preferences and behaviour result in germinable seeds being deposited in a range of sites, particularly in shrubby habitats, where seedling establishment is likely. Most seeds will be deposited within 50 m but some may be carried a kilometre or more to develop new invasive loci. Blackbirds therefore probably make a major contribution to the development of novel plant communities of naturalised woody weeds. These communities provide fruit more suited to non-endemic native birds and naturalised birds, than to endemic birds. The relative contribution of blackbirds and silvereyes to seed dispersal of native and exotic species requires investigation. The outcome may suggest potential for managing blackbirds as a vector of weed invasions.
24060805|Spatial associations between the invasive tree lupin (Lupinus arboreus), the New Zealand endemic widow spider Latrodectus katipo (katipo), and the introduced South African spider Steatoda capensis (false katipo) were examined within the nationally significant Kaitorete Spit dune system in Canterbury, New Zealand. These dunes are considered to be a stronghold for L. Katipo, but with the decline in preferred vegetation for capture-web attachment as a result of tree lupin invasion, a decline in the spider's population was expected. On other New Zealand dune systems a decline in L. Katipo abundance has corresponded with an increse in the abundance of the introduced S. capensis. Spider population data collected over a 6-year period and vegetation data collected in 2008 and 2009 were used to examine the spatial associations at Kaitorete Spit. The abundance of S. capensis was not significantly related to the abundance of L. Katipo. The ratio of S. capensis to L. Katipo declined annually over the 6 years. The 2008 and 2009 vegetation surveys found that S. capensis was not located in areas where tree lupin was present. Latrodectus Katipo was found in areas with up to 40% tree lupin cover. The abundance of L. Katipo recorded in areas dominated by tree lupin was not significantly different from the abundances recorded in association with native plant cover. The presence of L. arboreus at Kaitorete Spit is not considered to be a direct threat to the population of L. Katipo; Kaitorete Spit is still a stronghold.
24055340|The annual diet of possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) during both a beech (Nothofagus) mast fruiting year and a non-mast year in the simple beech forests of the North Branch of the Hurunui Catchment, eastern South Island, New Zealand, was determined by sorting the contents of 270 possum stomachs, collected between December 1999 and December 2001. Beech flowers and seeds contributed 46.1% to annual diet during the mast year, but were not eaten during the non-mast year. Beech foliage and bark made up 13.2% and 45.0% of annual diet in the mast and non-mast years, respectively. Fungi, herbs and grasses together comprised 23.1% and 42.4% of the annual diet in the mast and non-mast years, respectively. Diet varied with altitude and distance down the valley, principally in the relative contributions of foods from the three beech species present, which reflected local canopy composition. Other local food sources such as valley-floor herbs and grasses also contributed significantly to local diet. Although heavily reliant on beech species, possums are unlikely to have a significant impact on beech flower and seed production, or on the health of beech trees because of possums' low abundance and the large beech biomass at this site. Recognised possum-preferred foods such as Aristotelia serrata, Fuchsia excorticata, Hoheria glabrata, Raukaua simplex, Elaeocarpus hookerianus and mistletoes (Peraxilla tetrapetela and Alepis flavida) were all strongly preferred by possums but, because of their scarcity in the study area, were only eaten in small quantities.
24058095|We offered ripe fruits of tawa (Beilschmiedia tawa), taraire (B. tarairi), and priri (Vitex lucens) to captive New Zealand pigeons (Hemiphaga novaeseelandiae) and recorded seed retention times. We also recorded seed retention times while radio-tracking wild pigeons in Taranaki and Canterbury. We report wild pigeon retention times for tawa, priri, miro (Prumnopitys ferruginea), fivefinger (Pseudopanax arboreus), and kahikatea (Dacrycarpus dacrydioides) seeds. Where data were available for the same plant species from wild and captive pigeons, retention times were similar. Seed retention time differed significantly among fruit species, and was positively related to seed mass. Mean retention times ranged from 3745 min for the two smallest-seeded species (fivefinger and kahikatea) up to 109181 min for the three largest species (priri, taraire, and tawa). We also report the second published instance of regurgitation by the New Zealand pigeon.
24056348|The Wellington tree weta, Hemideina crassidens, is a harem-polygynous nocturnal insect whose males defend and mate groups of females residing in cavities in trees. In this study I examined sexual differences in gallery use (number of galleries occupied per unit time), distance travelled per night and activity patterns after sunset. In addition, I investigated how gallery size affected each of these variables. On average, males and females did not differ in the number of galleries visited per night, or in the distance they travelled per night; however, adult males were more likely to be seen earlier in the night than later. Although males and females did not differ in their gallery use or distance travelled, adult males occupied a significantly greater number of galleries and travelled greater distances per night at sites with small galleries than did males at sites with large galleries. These results suggest that habitat structure of a forest patch influences intrasexual tree weta behaviour.
24055318|Tradescantia fluminensis, commonly referred to as 'tradescantia', is an invasive weed of canopy-depleted forest remnants. Previous research suggests that a reduction of tradescantia biomass to 80 gm2 (40% cover) is compatible with native forest regeneration. I assessed herbicide application, hand weeding and artificial shading as methods for the control of tradescantia in two lowland podocarp/broad-leaved forest remnants in the lower North Island of New Zealand. Herbicide spray and hand weeding, applied to separate experimental plots, did not prevent re-growth of tradescantia after three successive treatments. Re-growth of tradescantia and invasion of other weeds were positively related to light availability, which increased in the more canopy-depleted areas, and negatively related to native forest regeneration measured two years after initial treatment. Artificial shading was the most effective method of control. The biomass of tradescantia was significantly reduced in artificially-shaded plots (25% full light; 81.3  10.6 gm2) relative to non-shaded plots (1527% full light; 597.6  6.6 gm2; t4 = 17.38, P < 0.001) after 17 months. Native sub-canopy species were planted into tradescantia to achieve natural shading over large areas of forest. After 2.5 years, 61% of the saplings planted had emerged from the surrounding tradescantia.
24052765|Sites in four areas of Canterbury, New Zealand were examined to determine the principal factors influencing wind damage, and study sites at two areas were used to investigate forest age-class structure and stand dynamics. At all sites large-scale topographic features funnelled storm winds to produce recurrent damage, and smaller-scale topographic features determined precise points affected by winthrow. Lee slopes provide shelter to susceptible sites during normal weather conditions and therefore permit better stand growth, but stand damage increases in storms. Stands on exposed windward slopes form a wind-shaped canopy which is constrained by stem breakage during minor storms. Damage occurs in stands over a critical height of about 18 m and where stem diameter is large. Wind-damaged forests have restricted age-distribution compared with those of partially damaged and vulnerable forests. Wind damage is little cause for concern as it must be viewed in a framework of short-term forest stability. Periodic mortality in mountain beech forests can be seen as a regeneration strategy of a light-demanding species, since it produces ideal conditions for forest perpetuation. Forest collapse, followed by rapid massed regeneration is thus an effective competitive mechanism against a more shade-tolerant canopy species.
24056198|We estimated the annual production of honeydew per unit land area of beech (Nothofagus spp.) forest by measuring the amount of honeydew produced in 24 h by scale insects (Ultracoelostoma spp.) (Hemiptera: Margarodidae) every month for 2 years. We used exclosures to prevent animals (notably Vespula wasps) removing honeydew, and we compared the standing crop of honeydew inside permanently closed exclosures with that outside exclosures. Honeydew production and the number of honeydew droplets was highly variable between individual trees, tree type, position on tree, and, exclosure type, and within and between years. The amount of honeydew available outside exclosures was significantly reduced in year 2, predominantly by Vespula wasps, even though wasp density was relatively low. Sugar composition also varied between tree type and between years. Up to 5% of the sugar was glucose, with varying proportions of fructose, sucrose and oligosaccharides. The surface area of trees infested with scale insects was estimated using allometric regression relationships between tree diameter and total surface area of tree trunk and branch material. These estimates were combined with measurements of tree diameter in 10-m radius circular plots to give a production estimate of between 3500 and 4500 kg dry weight honeydew ha1 year1. Using this data, combined with previously published estimates of carbon uptake, it was estimated that between 6 and 8% of net primary productivity was released as honeydew. Honeydew scale insects provide large amounts of biologically available carbon in the form of soluble sugar. It is a crucial resource for the above-ground system, and probably also for the below-ground system. We conclude that scale insects have the potential to function as keystone species in these forests.
24053307|Twenty-three kiwi were radio-tracked for 16-116 weeks in a Northland reserve. Eighty-three percent of the kiwi made use of the numerous forest remnants scattered over farmland outside the reserve. All remnants isolated by up to 80 m of pasture were used by kiwi. The maximum distance kiwi walked between forest remnants was 330 m. Longer migrations of up to 1.2 km from the reserve were made by kiwi using small forest remnants as 'stepping stones'. The planting and/or protection of small islands of forest adjacent to kiwi reserves is recommended as a method of linking forest remnants together and increasing the effective size of reserves. The possibility of managing several small populations of kiwi in concert to effect a larger population size is suggested.
24056322|This study investigated the effects of different management inputs (fertiliser and seed) and grazing patterns on plant biodiversity in a short tussock grassland with a strong Hieracium pilosella component. Cover abundance of vascular and non-vascular plants and environmental variables were measured in 32 1010-m plots located in five blocks with different management treatments. Ordination of the floristic data separated the block with the highest management inputs from other blocks. Several adventive species were significantly more abundant in this block, while several native species were either absent or uncommon, but were significantly more abundant in other study blocks. H. pilosella was significantly more abundant in blocks with lower management inputs. Diversity was significantly higher in the block with the highest management inputs. The native tussock Poa colensoi had significantly greater cover abundance while Festuca novae-zelandiae tussocks were significantly taller in this block. Our results suggest that high management inputs reduce the abundance of H. pilosella and diversity of native species, but increase the abundance of other adventive species and the cover and vigour of native tussocks. Our results highlight an interesting management conundrum for short tussock grasslands. No-input management is likely to result in a decline in native biodiversity, as well as production values, as H. pilosella mats deplete soil nutrients and restrict regeneration of native species. However, input of fertiliser and adventive seeds to enhance production values, although resulting in an increase in the vigour and abundance of some native species (mainly tussocks) and a reduction in H.pilosella abundance, will also result in a decline in overall native species richness.
24056166|Population models are useful tools to guide management as they allow us to project growth and persistence of wildlife populations under different scenarios. Nevertheless, good data are needed to produce reliable models, and this requirement is problematic in some situations. North Island saddlebacks (Philiesturnus rufusater) were reintroduced to Boundary Stream Mainland Island in September 2004, and this was the first time this species had occurred in an unfenced mainland area since their extirpation in the 19th century. This situation creates a challenging scenario for population modelling, as this species has never been studied in the presence of mainland predators, and management of these predators will be the key factor determining whether the population survives. In this paper we present an approach for developing a "prior model" before a reintroduction takes place. We use data from the reintroduced saddleback population on Mokoia Island to develop a model of how saddleback populations are regulated in the absence of mammalian predators. We use this model to project growth of a reintroduced population when vital rates are reduced by predation and also to project responses of source populations to harvesting of birds for translocation. We then incorporate data from the reintroduced North Island robin (Petroica longipes) population at Paengaroa Mainland Island to model the relationship between population parameters and predator tracking rates. The combined model can be used to predict the level of predator control needed to ensure growth of the saddleback population, but the prediction is contingent on guessing the relative vulnerability of robins and saddlebacks to predation. We envision using a Bayesian approach to update such prior models as site-specific data become available after reintroduction.
24054651|Fragments of kahikatea (Dacrycarpus dacrydioides) forest provide a major opportunity for conservation of indigenous biodiversity in the heavily deforested landscape of the Waikato Basin, New Zealand. However, there is little documented information on what indigenous fauna survives in these fragments. Using Malaise traps set 20 m and 50 m into fragments and 20 m and 50 m into the adjacent pasture, we analysed the beetle (Coleoptera) assemblages associated with two such kahikatea forest fragments in the south Waikato Basin in order to determine the scope of biotic invasion by adventive species and use of the surrounding pasture by indigenous species. A total of 3706 beetles were caught, encompassing 37 families and 206 recognisable taxonomic units. The forest fragments had a sharply defined edge, and were dominated by indigenous beetle species, with only a few adventive species present. Beetle assemblages sampled in the surrounding pasture were numerically dominated by adventive species. Despite no indigenous plant species being present in the pastures, 55 indigenous beetles species (61% of total species sampled in the pasture) were recorded in this habitat. Traps in the pasture of greatest floral diversity caught the most indigenous beetle species. Beetles of the detritivore guild dominated the samples from forest, but in samples from pasture, detritovores and predatores were co-dominant. Indigenous herbivore species were poorly represented in samples from pasture compared to other guilds. The kahikatea fragments have a rich indigenous beetle fauna and represent important refuges in the pastoral landscape of the Waikato. Many indigenous species are utilising the pasture to some degree, although their abundance and species richness declines with distance from the forest edge. This may have implications for successful dispersal to new patches. Species that could potentially be used as indicators of kahikatea forest fragment community structure and its resistance to invasion are suggested.
24053582|Variation in seedling growth and form between provenances of Podocarpus totara from 42 sites throughout New Zealand was investigated. Seedlings were grown for three years under uniform nursery conditions. There were significant differences between provenances in height growth in the first three years after sowing. Early growth was highly correlated with germination rate after sowing. In the third year, growth followed a different pattern and was negatively correlated with provenance latitude, i.e., provenances from southern latitudes grew more slowly than those from further north. This suggests that genetic factors correlated with mean summer temperature of the locality of seed source were beginning to predominate. Stem form and branch length also varied between provenances, but foliage colour and leaf size did not. Neither stem form nor branch length were related to any provenance site variable. Since provenance variation is appreciable, it is recommended that P. totara plantings for ecological purposes should be of seedlings raised from locally collected seed. However, for growing P. totara in plantations to produce special-purpose high value timber, considerable scope exists for an in-depth breeding study that will eventually lead to producing planting stock with both superior height growth and good tree form.
24054529|Current monitoring of Himalayan thar (Hemitragus jemlahicus) populations in New Zealand involves a technique based on repeated observations by different, experienced observers. The method gives no measure of error and hence does not allow for statistical comparison of repeated surveys. We outline a faster and cheaper technique that enables statistical comparison between surveys based on mark-recapture theory. Two counts can be made by the same observer on subsequent evenings, or can be conducted simultaneously by two observers of differing experience provided they do not cue each other to the location of animals. As an example of the use of the technique, we monitored a control operation aimed at reducing thar impact on alpine flora. We recorded a non-significant (P = 0.27) decline in thar abundance from 38 ( 27; 95% C.L.) to 28 ( 19) females (including kids) in the survey area.
24056190|European hedgehogs (Erinaceus europaeus) have recently been identified as a conservation threat in New Zealand. Hedgehogs were kill-trapped at 14 wetland and braided riverbed sites in the upper Waitaki Basin between late October 1997 and early February 1998 and their gut contents described. The most commonly eaten prey were Coleoptera (present in 81% of 192 guts), Lepidoptera (52%; n = 192), Dermaptera (49%; n = 192), Hymenoptera (42%; n = 192) and Orthoptera (31%; n = 319). Large numbers of single invertebrate prey types were frequently eaten by individual animals, likely indicating hedgehogs' ability to take advantage of rich patches of food. Weta remains occurred in 22% of guts, with the gut of one adult male containing 283 Hemiandrus legs. No remains of the endangered robust grasshopper were found. Eggshell was recorded in 4% of 615 guts. Native lizard remains were found in 6% of 615 guts and three times as many adult female hedgehog guts contained lizards compared with adult males. This difference may be linked to females' high energetic demands during the breeding season. The dependence of hedgehogs on invertebrate prey is likely to have significant implications for the conservation of threatened endemic invertebrates, which often show restricted ranges. While birds' eggs and native lizards appear to be of lesser importance, small, localised populations of these fauna may still be threatened by hedgehog predation.
24052784|Forest types of the Wapiti, Doon and Glaisnock catchments, ranked in order of proportion of preferred food species for deer, paralleled a gradient of landform stability. Seral forests and low altitude silver beech forests were preferred deer habitat because they contained the largest proportions of highly preferred species. They often occurred on unstable landforms such as debris cones, colluvial sideslopes, and terraces with recent and compound soils, assumed to be of high nutrient status. In contrast, mountain beech and high altitude silver beech forests supported lower proportions of highly preferred food species and were poor deer habitat. They occurred on more stable landforms such as bedrock sideslopes, ridges and benches with poorly-drained, infertile soils. The Wapiti/Doon catchments contained a greater abundance of more stable landforms than the Glaisnock and therefore provided poorer deer habitat in the predominant mountain beech forests.
24052795|'Extensive' herbivore/vegetation models and 'intensive' grazing models yield two conclusions for sustained-yield harvesting of populations regulated by an interaction with their resources. First, the growth curve for the population, relating growth rate to current density, and the equilibrium yield/effort curve under harvesting, are likely to be asymmetric, with peaks displaced to the right and maximum growth rate and harvest greater then predicted by the symmetrical, single-species logistic model. In general, the growth curve for a consumer has its peak displaced to the right relative to that of its resource. Second, stability of the population and harvest is greater at moderately high harvesting intensities than at low ones, and is greater the more leftward-peaked the resource growth curve.
24053600|The standing crop and daily production of honeydew by Ultracoelostoma brittini on Nothofagus solandri var solandri was measured on 28-29 August 1990 near Oxford, Canterbury. In 64 quadrats of 125 cm2, all 740 active individual insects were mapped by their anal threads and honeydew production was recorded every three hours over 24 hours. Mean production of honeydew per insect over 24 hours was 0.169 l, but ranged from zero (4% of all active insects) to 11.5 l. Standing crop peaked just after dawn, and production was apparently higher at night. Removing drops every three hours and covering the quadrats to exclude animals had no significant effect on honeydew production. The greatest variation was between the 16 trees. Ultracoelostoma densities were higher on trees with higher daily honeydew production per insect. The honeydew production per unit area over 24 hours represented 3.2 to 23.0 times the standing crop, depending on what time of day the latter was measured; for the daylight samples, production was 11.5 times the mean standing crop.
24052675|Permanent transects, established in 1970 to monitor the effects of sheep grazing on subantarctic palatable and dominant plants, are assessed. Sheep have a detrimental effect on most species considered, but regeneration is vigorous on the sheep-free side of a fence-line dividing Campbell Island.
24052005|The location of the boundary between the territories of red grouse (Lagopus lagopus scoticus) and ptarmigan (Lagopus mutus) is related to the vegetation of the hills where both these species occur. If the vegetation is dominated by tall, vigorous Calluna vulgaris, grouse occur. At greater altitudes where Calluna is shorter and less vigorous, significant levels of Empetrum hermaphroditum and Vaccinium myrtillus are also present and such vegetation is occupied by ptarmigan. An hypothesis is suggested in which the actual boundary between the two bird species is related to a critical height of Calluna. The different behaviour of the birds in relation to predators may influence the location of the boundary. Grouse shelter in tall Calluna while ptarmigan seek rock heaps.
24060705|Multiple paternity within litters has been recorded among a variety of small mammal species, including some species of rodents. Although multiple mating has been observed in wild Rattus populations, whether such mating results in litters with multiple paternities has not been established previously. For studies involving invasive species, it is useful to be aware of the level of genetic diversity a single pregnant invader can bring to a population. Multiple paternity is a means of providing additional genetic diversity to founding populations of rats on islands, which might improve population fitness. We used a genetic approach to confirm that multiple paternity occurs in wild populations of two rat species (Rattus norvegicus and R. rattus) in New Zealand. This was accomplished by genotyping litters of embryos in pregnant females, and subtracting the known maternal alleles to find the number of paternal alleles necessary to form the litter. The number of paternal contributors cannot be overestimated by this method, befitting a conservative approach to the detection of multiple paternity, but can be underestimated. We used simulations to investigate the level of underestimation likely under two possible scenarios involving multiple paternity.
24056340|Introduced mammalian herbivores are changing the structure and composition of New Zealand's forest ecosystems and may modify forest succession after natural disturbances. We studied how introduced ungulates (red deer and feral pigs) and rodents (rats and house mice) affected the rate of recovery (i.e. the engineering resilience) of the forest understorey following artificial disturbance. We imposed disturbances by clearing understorey vegetation dominated by Blechnum ferns in forests on relatively fertile alluvium and elevated infertile marine terraces, and recorded recovery of vegetation (seedling establishment, species composition, cover and volume) in herbivore exclosures and controls. Seedlings quickly established on cleared plots: after 2 years, numbers of woody seedlings and ground cover of vascular plants relative to initial values were similar on cleared and uncleared treatments. Volume of plant biomass <2 m remained low on cleared subplots. Ungulates significantly reduced the re-establishment of woody seedlings  10 cm tall: only one seedling reached this height outside exclosures, compared with 29 seedlings inside. The number of seedlings <10 cm tall, expressed relative to numbers present pre-clearing, was not significantly affected by ungulates. The species composition of regenerating vegetation was more similar (jaccard index) to pre-clearing understorey vegetation inside ungulate exclosures than outside. No consistent effect of rodents (primarily house mice) on seedling establishment or species composition was detected after 2 years, and rodent exclosures did not significantly affect survival of seedlings (Griselinia littoralis and Aristotelia serrata) planted as an index of rodent herbivory pressure. No significant differences in vegetation recovery were apparent between forest types. Rapid seedling recruitment in the absence of understorey vegetation and the presence of herbivores provided evidence that understorey vegetation competes with seedlings for light. Ungulate effects were consistent with other experiments that showed herbivores reduced the rate and altered the trajectory of vegetation regrowth after disturbance.
24054655|This study examined whether two species of lepidopteran larvae (Cleora scriptaria and Epiphyas postvittana) were deterred from feeding on the leaves of kawakawa (Macropiper excelsum) after the leaves had been damaged in three different ways: by larval feeding, using a hole punch or a metal rasp. A hierarchy of choice experiments was performed in the laboratory, examining the feeding 'preference' of these insects between undamaged or previously damaged tissue within the same leaf, between different leaves and between different plants. On no occasion did larvae of either species show a signigicant preference for undamaged or damaged leaves. It is concluded that, on present evidence, kawakawa does not have a system of induced chemical defences which deters the feeding of these two insects.
24055339|Introduced rodents and possums in New Zealand eat flowers, fruits, seeds and seedlings, but little is known about their impact on forest regeneration. We investigated seedling establishment in exclosures with mesh of two different sizes to exclude (1) possums and (2) possums and rats, at two mainland forest sites (beechpodocarpbroadleaved and second-growth broadleavedpodocarp) near Dunedin. We recorded all new woody seedlings that established over the next 2 years. The number of seedlings with true leaves differed significantly between treatments after 1.5 years at both sites and after 2 years in beechpodocarpbroadleaved forest. This effect was broadly consistent across all species including pepper tree (Pseudowintera colorata), whose adult foliage is unpalatable to possums. Cotyledonous seedlings were relatively ephemeral, but differed significantly in abundance between treatments in second-growth broadleavedpodocarp forest after 1.5 and 2 years. In second-growth broadleavedpodocarp forest, possums were present throughout the study but rats were rare. Numbers of seedlings did not differ significantly between exclosures with different mesh sizes which admitted or excluded rats. In beechpodocarpbroadleaved forest, rats were present periodically throughout the study, but possums may have been scarce during the final 7 months as a result of pest control. At this location, 80 seedlings with true leaves occurred in exclosures that excluded possums and rats, 3.6 times as many as on control plots and 2.1 times as many as in exclosures that deterred only possums. The consequences of these pest impacts on seedling recruitment for forest regeneration must be confirmed in longer-term studies. Exclosures can be effectively used to experimentally separate the impacts of different herbivores on seedling establishment.
24055295|The Australian brushtail possum (Trichosurus vulpecula) has been blamed for the decline of three native New Zealand beech mistletoe species (Alepis flavida, Peraxilla tetrapetala and Peraxilla colensoi, Loranthaceae), but there are few quantitative data on possum effects, and anecdotal evidence is often conflicting. We present results from two monitoring programmes that suggest possum control operations can improve mistletoe health. In the Eglinton Valley significantly more Alepis flavida plants outside a possum control area declined in condition than Peraxilla spp. inside the control area from 1995 to 1997. In 1997, the control area was extended to include A. flavida plants and their condition significantly improved by 1999. Alepis flavida at Eglinton was also compared to A. flavida at Mavora Lakes, where no control was undertaken. Significantly more of the Eglinton plants declined from 1995 to 1997, while the reverse was true from 1997 to 1999, after the Eglinton site was controlled. In the Hurunui River Valley significantly more mistletoes improved or remained in the same condition within the possum control area than outside the control area between 1997 and 2000. Overall, these results suggest that possum control is an effective tool for protecting native beech mistletoes, but more monitoring data are needed to understand how frequent and how intense control efforts must be to afford this protection.
24054781|Vertebrate pest control operations using toxic baits can have unintended consequences for non-target species, some of which may themselves be pests. Learned avoidance behaviour (termed 'aversion') can be induced by sublethal dosing, which can arise when species with high and low susceptibilities to a toxin co-exist in the same area. In such cases the less-susceptible species (e.g., possums Trichosurus vulpecula) may be sublethally poisoned by control work targeting the more-susceptible species (e.g., rabbits Oryctolagus cuniculus). A case study of rabbit control on North Canterbury farmland is presented to demonstrate this effect. When control is being repeated at frequent intervals, it is prudent to vary the control methods used. Nevertheless, aversion induced by the use of one toxic bait (e.g., cyanide paste) can in some situations 'generalise' so that the efficacy of control using other toxins (e.g., 1080 and cholecalciferol in cereal baits) is also compromised. A case study of initial and follow-up possum control in four discrete areas of Canterbury forest provides an example of this problem. The implications of these findings for future pest management in New Zealand are discussed.
24054528|This radio-tracking study reports the daily activity rhythms in autumn and spring of 11 stoats (Mustela erminea) (9 male, 2 female), 20 ferrets (M. furo) (8 m, 12 f) and 11 feral house cats (Felis catus) (7 m, 4 f) resident on coastal grassland, Otago Peninsula, New Zealand. Activity rhythms differed markedly amongst individual stoats in autumn, but little amongst individual cats and ferrets in either season. Stoats were equally active day and night in autumn, but were more active at day than at night in spring. Cats showed moderate day activity, but were mainly active at night in both seasons. Ferrets showed low activity during daylight in autumn and were entirely nocturnal in spring. Overall, stoats were more active during daylight than cats or ferrets; and cats were more active during daylight than ferrets. Therefore, cats and especially stoats may pose the main predation threat to diurnal native species in New Zealand. Effective biological control of rabbits (Oryctolagus cuniculus) may effect the absolute abundance and daily activity of the predators, so is impossible to predict the overall impact of predation on diurnal and nocturnal native species.
24054648|Chamois (Rupicapra rupicapra) are usually considered an alpine species in New Zealand, but also occur in forests in areas such as Westland. A postal survey of commercial helicopter-based hunters indicated that chamois are present within Westland forests from timberline to sea level and are most abundant within an area of about 1600 km2 extending from the Wanganui River in the north to the Karangarua River to the south. The diet of 40 chamois shot in spring and summer was determined by analysis of rumen contents. Of 66 food items identified to genus or species level, five averaged >5% of dry weight of the rumen contents; these were Carmichaelia spp. (14%), large-leaved Coprosma spp. (12%), Weinmannia racemosa (11%), Griselinia littoralis (9%), and Melicytus ramiflorus (7%). The proportion of grasses in the diet was significantly lower in summer (3%) than in spring (8%). These results suggest that unmanaged chamois populations have the potential to affect regeneration of plant species important to the Westland Metrosideros umbellata - Weinmannia racemosa forest community.
24053247|It is widely thought that some small "bush" moa (Dinornithiformes) survived in Fiordland, New Zealand, into the European era. Possible sightings, especially that by Alice McKenzie, and archaeological evidence, particularly from the Takahe Valley rockshelter site, are discussed. They are insufficient to sustain the belief that moa survived until the eighteenth century or later.
24054469|Monitoring the effect of management in rangelands is an integral part of the process of adaptive management. An understanding of how individual species react to management has two major benefits. Firstly, monitoring, can be simplified by avoiding species which are reacting mostly to other influences, and secondly the abundance of species can be interpreted in a meaningful way for assessing the influence of previous management. Gradient analysis on a matrix of 69 sample sites and 125 species in the St Bathans area of Central Otago identified a relatively homogenous data set, within which the effects of environmental variation had been minimised so that the major pattern of vegetation composition change was explained by pastoral impact. Ten plant species showed clear responses along the pastoral impact gradient, and were abundant over certain ranges of this gradient. It is recommended that these species be used to monitor trends in vegetation condition.
24052706|Feral goats (Capra hircus) have been hunted intensively every year since 1972 on the 2950 ha Raoul Island to protect the indigenous vegetation. Rumen samples taken from 103 goats shot in 198283 showed that a minimum of 48 species of vascular plants, mostly indigenous species, were eaten. Only seven foods  Metrosideros kermadecensis, Coriaria arborea var. kermadecensis, Melicytus ramiflorus spp. ramiflorus, Rhopalostylis baueri var. cheesemanii, various grasses and sedges, Blechnum spp., and the fungus Auricularia sp.  made up 89% of the diet by dry weight. The reduction in goat numbers has allowed most of the palatable species to regenerate, and rare, endangered plants such as Hebe breviracemosa, Homalanthus polyandrus, and Boehmeria australis var. dealbata are now increasing.
24054649|The spatial distribution of feral ferret (Mustela furo) activity and denning were studied using ink-print tracking tunnels and radio-tracking within pastoral farmland containing a mosaic of grazed (developed and semi-developed) and ungrazed pasture, scrub, tree plantation and scrubby fence lines at Palmerston, East Otago, South Island, New Zealand. Ferrets concentrated their activity in grazed areas but within these areas they were found more often where herbs, scrub and woody cover were present, and where there was an ecotone between pasture and vegetation cover. Ferrets were more likely to be present close to fence lines. When denning, ferrets selected areas with cover of all types and avoided open pasture areas. Ferrets particularly favoured man-made structures (woolsheds, haybarns, sheds etc.) for dens. The implications of these microhabitat selections by ferrets to wildlife conservation in New Zealand are discussed. Ferrets are a possible vector of bovine tuberculosis (Mycobacterium bovis). Ferrets may transmit tuberculosis to stock via contaminated food or latrines deposited outside den sites (68% of dens were accessible to stock). Concentration of ferret movements along pasture ecotones may be a factor facilitating tuberculosis transmission between possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) and ferrets, and between ferrets and stock.
24052378|Clearfelling and downhill, skyline-hauler extraction of pulpwood and sawlogs in beech-podocarp-hardwood (PB5) forest, followed by slash-burning, produced increased streamflow yields of N, P and dissolved cations. Nutrient outputs in the first four months after treatment were from 1 to 1.5 times the normal annual output. Yields of Na, Mg, Ca, and K were from 1 to 6 times the normal output; K output showed the largest increase. Nutrient and cation concentrations in streamflow remained within drinking water quality limits except for 12 hours following burning, when ammonium-N was greater than 0.5 mg/l. Losses of K from this treatment appear greater than any reported in the literature and constitute 5% of the readily-available K, but less than 0.1% of the total K capital in the forest and soil. N and P losses are in the low to middle range of results reported from elsewhere. The high K losses are related to: (1) the combination of steep terrain, complete preextraction felling, and the logging method, which concentrated crown material near the stream; (2) the greater fire intensity near the stream which, because of the fuel concentrations and an up-valley wind, converted much of the slash to K-rich ash; and (3) two small storms which occurred shortly after burning and removed most of the ash from the catchment.
24058124|The dominant native woody species forming early-successional vegetation on formerly forested sites in lowland New Zealand were knuka (Kunzea ericoides) and mnuka (Leptospermum scoparium) (Myrtaceae). These have been replaced extensively by gorse (Ulex europaeus, Fabaceae), a naturalised species in New Zealand. Because gorse typically gives way to native broadleaved (angiosperm) forest in about 30 years, it is often considered desirable for facilitating native forest restoration. We tested three hypotheses, derived from the New Zealand literature, on gorse and knuka: (1) knuka stands have a different species composition and greater species richness than gorse stands at comparable successional stages; (2) differences between gorse and knuka stands do not lessen over time; and (3) several native plant taxa are absent from or less common in gorse than in knuka stands. We sampled 48 scrub or low-forest sites in two regions, Wellington and Nelson. Sites were classified into one of four predefined categories  young gorse, young knuka, old gorse, old knuka  based on canopy height of the succession and the dominant early-successional woody species. Few characteristics of the sites and surrounding landscapes differed significantly among site categories, and none consistently across regions. The vegetation composition of gorse and knuka and their immediate successors differed in both regions, mainly in native woody species. Species richness was often lower in gorse and there were fewer small-leaved shrubs and orchids in gorse. persistent differences at the older sites suggest the successional trajectories will not converge in the immediate future; gorse leads to different forest from that developed through knuka. Gorse-dominated succession is therefore not a direct substitute for native successions. We suggest areas of early native succession should be preserved, and initiated in landscapes where successions are dominated by gorse or other naturalised shrubs.
24060730|The little blue penguin (Eudyptula minor) is in decline throughout much of its range in New Zealand and Australia, largely due to introduced predators, human disturbance and roadkill mortalities. The white-flippered penguin is a unique morphological variant of the blue penguin, which is traditionally given subspecific status (Eudyptula minor albosignata), and is found only on Banks Peninsula and Motunau Island in Canterbury, New Zealand. We monitored a varying number of nest boxes from 1996 to 2009. Overall breeding success was 64% over 13 years of monitoring, with a hatching success rate of 75% and a fledging success rate of 85%. We used a set of generalised linear mixed models and model selection to examine the relative influence of various explanatory variables on hatching, fledging and overall breeding success. Breeding success in nest boxes significantly increased with shorter average pair bond length, longer guard period and later relative lay date. Guard period length was the best predictor of breeding success, followed by relative lay date and average pair bond length. Hatching success also increased with later relative lay date but fledging success was not influenced by any of the explanatory variables measured.
24052014|Weights, measurements and stomach-contents of a sample of shining cuckoos (Chrysococcyx lucidus) are summarised. Mean weights and measurements did not differ between the sexes. The diet comprised only insects, mainly caterpillars and beetles. A third of the caterpillars were larvae of the magpie moth (Nyctemera annulata) whose spines embed in the lining of the gizzard, and most beetles were ladybirds (Coccinellidae). Thus many prey were insects generally avoided by other birds. Ingested items were mostly less than 16 mm long, and a third were only 1-5 mm long.
24053313|Before European settlement, most of the 750,000 ha of land comprising the Canterbury Plains was under native tussock grassland with pockets of podocarp forest. The dominant land use today is mixed cropping in which cereals and cash crops are grown for 2 to 4 years followed by grass-clover pasture for 2 to 4 years. These cropping rotations are generally too short for either a substantial build-up in soil organic matter under pasture or its breakdown under arable cropping to occur. Nonetheless, there is a cyclic improvement in both N-supplying capacity and soil structure under pasture and a decline in both properties under arable. Large N inputs (e.g., 100-300 kg N ha1 yr1) occur through N2 fixation by the clover component of the pasture, but the potential for leaching losses of nitrate is substantial after the pasture is ploughed in. During the pasture phase there is an increase in temporary soil binding agents in the topsoil layer and consequently an increase in aggregate stability. There is also a change in soil porosity caused by pasture root growth and earthworm activity. In contrast, soil physical properties rapidly deteriorate under the arable phase of the rotation.
24054454|Species-rich moth faunas at two sites in a montane tussock grassland at Cass show major declines in the abundance of many common species between 1961-63 and 1987-89, furthering a 50- to 70-year trend. The recent faunal record (202 species) is quantified by a 3-point light-trapping methodology based on independence of serial samples, minimised sample variability and a posteriori data standardisation. An historical record of vegetation change is also presented, pointing to a major decline in endemic herb species with the advances of an adventive grass, Agrostis capillaris. Site differences feature in the analysis of vegetation and faunal changes. At the site with the greater loss of herbs and the 93% grass cover (a doubling in 26 years), the respective abundances of common herb- and grass-feeding moth species have declined 88% and 74% since 1961-63. A greater residual floral diversity at the other site (13% herb cover, 71% grasses) has to date favoured a lesser decline in grass-feeders (56%). Data analyses suggest that few common endemic grassland moths can survive as oligophages, most depending on feeding diversity. In the face of reducing diversity, the thrust of faunal conservation in induced Agrostis associations should be to manage the vegetation using adventive animals as allies. The evidence of the study supports and extends the author's earlier conservation guidelines.
24060862|If deterministic processes consistently structure ecological communities, similar patterns in species interactions should be observed in different geographic areas that experience similar environmental conditions. I tested for convergent patterns in dietary diversity of fruit-eating birds inhabiting similar latitude forests in the Northern and Southern hemispheres. I observed birds foraging for fruits over two fruiting seasons in both Nelson Lakes National Park, South Island, New Zealand, and the Pacific Rim National Park, Vancouver Island, Canada. I then conducted rarefaction analyses to compare community-level and species-level dietary diversity between geographic locales. Relationships between the size of each bird species and the average size of fruits consumed were also assessed. Results showed that the New Zealand bird community had greater overall dietary diversity than the Canadian community. However, similar levels of dietary diversity were observed among species within communities in both hemispheres. Positive relationships between bird size and fruit size were observed in New Zealand, but not in Canada. Therefore, while results showed some support for dietary convergence between hemispheres, several substantial differences were also observed, leading to mixed support for convergent patterns in the diets of fruit-eating birds between hemispheres.
24058202|In New Zealand, assessment of 'significance' is undertaken to give effect to a legal requirement for local authorities to provide for protection of significant sites under the Resource Management Act (1991). The ambiguity of the statute enables different interests to define significance according to their goals: vested interests (developers), local authorities, and non-vested interests in pursuit of protection of environmental public goods may advance different definitions. We examine two sets of criteria used for assessment of significance for biological diversity under the Act. Criteria adapted from the 1980s Protected Natural Areas Programme are inadequate to achieve the maintenance of biological diversity if ranking is used to identify only highest priority sites. Norton and Roper-Lindsay (2004) propose a narrow definition of significance, and criteria that identify only a few high-quality sites as significant. Both sets are likely to serve the interests of developers and local authorities, but place the penalty of uncertainty on non-vested interests seeking to maintain biological diversity, and are likely to exacerbate the decline of biological diversity and the loss of landscape-scale processes required for its persistence. When adopting criteria for assessment of significance, we suggest local authorities should consider whose interests are served by different criteria sets, and who will bear the penalty of uncertainty regarding biological diversity outcomes. They should also ask whether significance criteria are adequate, and sufficiently robust to the uncertainty inherent in the assessment of natural values, to halt the decline of indigenous biological diversity.
24053309|Scattered small stands of Nothofagus truncata occur in the upper Taramakau catchment, Arthur's Pass National Park, beyond the previously assumed range of the species in north Westland. Restricted to older soils on stable north to north-west slopes, the N. truncata stands are surrounded by N. fusca dominated forest and their upper altitudinal limits at 370-500 m border N. fusca-N. menziesii or N. solandri var. cliffortioides forest. The nearest existing seed sources are located more than 20 km to the north in the Lake Haupiri region, north Westland. Cyathodes fasciculata and Metrosideros perforata are associated with N. truncata in one or more of the stands and are recorded for the first time in Arthur's Pass National Park. The biogeographical significance of the N. truncata stands is discussed.
24052768|The home ranges of four male and five female feral house cats (Felis catus) were studied by radio-telemetry. In the narrow, steep-sided valley the home ranges of cats were linear, with an average length of 6.34 km for males and 3.83 km for females; only large males crossed the river. Females with kittens had small home ranges of 0.84 to 2.0 km. Home ranges of animals of the same sex, including breeding females, overlapped considerably. The social organisation of feral cats at low density differs little from that of higher-density free-ranging domestic cats.
24052785|Deer density indices were estimated in 1969, 1975, and 1984 in the core of the Wapiti Area of Fiordland National Park. Between 1969 and 1984, density above timberline was reduced to near zero by commercial airborne hunting, with smaller decreases in the forest. Overall density declined by 81%. An estimated 2007  385 deer were present in the 850 km2 survey area in 1984, with an average density in the forest of 3.47  0.66/km2. The highest densities remained in the most completely forested sub-area (Catseye). Deer distribution within the forests became more clumped as densities decreased and, in 1984, was determined by slope, forest type, and terrain. The proportion of deer considered to be wapiti decreased from 100% in the 1920s to 17.7% in 1982-83. The decline is thought to be due to hybridisation and competition with the sympatric red deer, and not the result of differential harvesting. Most remaining wapiti are concentrated between George and Bligh Sounds and eastwards, including the George, Edith, Wapiti, and Glaisnock catchments.
24052701|It will be necessary to establish reserves for the conservation of New Zealand's forest avifauna largely in the absence of detailed autecological studies. Hence the empirical findings of island biogeography may provide the best available guide to the reserve size necessary for the preservation of both species communities and individual species. The occurrence of indigenous forest birds on offshore islands suggests that reserves of the order tens of km2 or larger of comparable forest habitat may be necessary on the mainland to ensure a high probability of the long-term survival of all species which still occur there. The area requirements of individual species tend to increase with the degree of endemism and reliance on indigenous forest habitats.
24060784|Vocalisations are important for territorial defence, mate attraction, and species recognition in many songbirds. Comparative studies on the songs of birds between islands and mainland populations provide insight into the evolution of vocal communication in terms of both ecological and social factors. We compared the vocalisations of tui (Prosthemadera novaeseelandiae novaeseelandiae), an endemic honeyeater from New Zealand's mainland, with those of a subspecies from the remote Chatham Islands (P. n. chathamensis). Song spectral variables of male long-range 'broadcasting' songs differed between mainland and Chatham Island tui populations. Songs recorded from five mainland populations had significantly greater syllable diversity and produced a higher percentage of trills than those from the Chatham Islands. These characteristics have been revealed in past studies as being sexually selected traits positively correlated with male genetic diversity. The acoustic adaptation hypothesis could also help to elucidate the presence of a significantly higher percentage of trill components in the songs of the mainland population, as the mainland study sites in general contained more areas of open vegetation, where trills transmit more effectively than in dense forest, which dominated the sampling sites on the Chatham Islands. Future research into the variation of tui song complexity in relation to population size, geographic isolation, and habitat structure between different mainland sites would provide further insight into links between selective pressures and vocal complexity.
24060736|Understanding the factors that drive population persistence and growth is fundamental to both conservation management and evolutionary biology. Internal (maternal) and external (environmental) factors can affect female reproductive output, and in oviparous reptiles both may strongly influence offspring phenotype and quality. However, the link between these effects, their importance for reproductive output and offspring characteristics of live-bearing lizards, and whether population declines are linked to these factors in modified versus native habitats are unknown. We used a common New Zealand skink species, Oligosoma maccanni (McCann's skink), found in grazed native and exotic grassland to test whether differences in environmental or maternal characteristics influenced birth date, pregnancy success and offspring phenotype. In both grassland types the date of birth was c. 8 days earlier at lower altitudes (altitudinal range = 564719 m a.s.l), and small females were less likely to have successful pregnancies. However, larger females had more weak or deformed offspring, suggesting that reproductive senescence may exist in this species. While other research shows that exotic grasslands do not support as many skinks as native tussock grassland, reproductive success of pregnant skinks (viable litter size) was not affected by habitat modification. However, neonates had greater body condition (mass for length) when from females with higher post-partum body condition, and these females were from the native tussock grasslands. In conjunction with previously published data on McCann's skink, our data suggest that reduced offspring quality may contribute to the lower population numbers in the exotic habitats.
24054437|The diets of feral pigs and feral goats shot on the main Auckland Island in 1989 are described from analyses of stomach and rumen contents. Feral goats ate at least 50 species of plants, but only three, Metrosideros umbellata, Chionochloa antarctica, and Durvillea antarctica made up over 50% by dried weight of the food eaten. Feral pigs ate a mixed plant and animal diet, of which plants made up 61% of the diet, with the megaherb Anisotome antipoda being the largest dietary item at 38% by dried weight. The animals eaten by pigs were mostly annelids, at 26% by dry weight of their diet, and there was little evidence of predation or scavenging on birds. Goats have subsequently been eradicated from the island, but feral pigs remain arguably a potential threat to current conservation values and certainly an impediment to any restoration of the island's natural values.
24058199|New Zealand honeydew beech forests are the only natural ecosystem where large quantities of above-ground labile carbon are added year-round. Microbes can potentially play an important role in the flux of nutrients through food webs; because of their potential for specialisation to sugar-rich niches we tested for the presence of yeasts in the honeydew system. We found at least two abundant species (Hanseniaspora osmophila and Candida railenensis), as well as two species (Zygosaccharomyces cidri and Z. rouxii) likely present at lower frequencies. Only Candida railenensis is known to be associated with Nothofagus, but the other species are associated with fruits and winemaking/fermentation. These other species found in honeydew may be indigenous, but it is also possible that they represent microbial examples of invasive species and consequently add to the considerable list of human-introduced species that have invaded New Zealand's ecosystem.
24054543|The sex ratio of the kaka population inhabiting the Waihaha Ecological Area, Pureora Forest Park was estimated between late October 1994 and January 1995. The observed sex ratio estimate was three males to one female compared to a capture rate (using mist nets) of six to one in the same area between January and June 1994. Females appeared to be less susceptible to capture than males. The skewed sex ratio toward male kaka was significant and suggests that female kaka suffer higher mortality (probably due to predation at the nest) than males. The slow breeding rate of kaka combined with a high loss of breeding females is a serious threat to the long term survival of the kaka population within the Waihaha Ecological Area.
24054428|We studied the ecology of a high-density population of stoats in Fiordland, New Zealand, in the summer and autumn of 1990-91 following a Nothofagus seeding in 1990. Results are compared with findings from the same area in 1991-92, a period of lower stoat density. In the high-density year, minimum home ranges (revealed by radio-tracking) of four females averaged 69 ha and those of three males 93 ha; range lengths averaged 1.3 km and 2.5 km respectively. Neither difference was statistically significant. For combined sexes, average range area in the high-density year was significantly less, and range length was significantly shorter, than in the following year. When we compared stoat diet in the high-density year with that in the following two years, there were no significant differences in the frequencies of occurrence of birds or invertebrates in stoat guts. Overall, bird remains were found in 56% of guts, and invertebrates in 28%. Possum remains occurred in 6% of male stoats but were never found in females. Mice were only detected in stoats in the high-density year, when they occurred in 54% of guts. Lagomorphs occurred significantly more often in the guts of stoats during lower-density years (26%) than the high-density year (7%). Seedfall in Nothofagus forest is synchronous and periodic. Following seedfall, mouse density rises dramatically, followed by a sharp rise in stoat numbers. It has been suggested that mice feed on the abundant seed and that stoats in turn increase because of the large numbers of mice available to them. We suggest that the situation is more complex and that increases in not only mouse, but also bird (and possibly invertebrate), densities may contribute to the high productivity of stoats in the year following a Nothofagus seedfall.
24060880|The establishment of ecological areas, a network of predominantly forest reserves, was initiated by the former New Zealand Forest Service (NZFS) in the 1970s within the context of large-scale utilisation and exotic conversion proposals for indigenous State forest lands on the West Coast and in Southland. Unlike other types of protected natural area, ecological areas were primarily selected to be representative of the natural features within ecological districts. Although 112 ecological areas covering 344 753 ha (1.29% of New Zealand's land area) have now been established, their geographic distribution is uneven with disproportionately large numbers in the West Coast, Waikato and East Coast Bay of Plenty Department of Conservation conservancies. While the intent of the NZFS in gazetting ecological areas was that they would receive the highest level of protection possible, they have not been afforded this level of protection under the Conservation Act 1987 and the Crown Minerals Act 1991, or under conservation management strategies. The identification and protection of ecological areas has not extended beyond former State forest land. With two exceptions, all ecological areas are open to mining despite their high values. Ecological areas are on a par with national parks in terms of their ecological values and they warrant the highest level of protection and management. Specific actions to recognise the special value of ecological areas in legislation, policy and management are recommended.
24058163|The concept of ecosystem engineering has been proposed recently to account for key processes between organisms and their environment which are not directly trophic or competitive, and which result in the modification, maintenance and/or creation of habitats. Since the initial reporting of the idea, little work has been undertaken to apply the proposed concept to potential ecosystem engineers in the marine environment. Biological and ecological data for the burrowing ghost shrimp Callianassa filholi (Decapoda: Thalassinidea) allowed for a formal assessment of this species as an ecosystem engineer, in direct accordance with published criteria. Despite a low population density and the short durability of its burrow structures, Callianassa filholi affected a number of resource flows by its large lifetime per capita activity. Ecosystem effects were evident in significant changes in macrofauna community composition over small spatial and temporal scales. Seasonal variation in the effects of ghost shrimp activity were associated with changes in seagrass (Zostera novazelandica) biomass, which revealed the probability of interactions between antagonistic ecosystem engineers. The formal assessment of Callianassa filholi provides the opportunity to aid discussion pertaining to the development of the ecosystem engineering concept.
24058218|Nearly one quarter of New Zealand's unique vascular plant flora is threatened, and weed invasion is implicated in the decline of more than half of these threatened species. However, there is little experimental evidence showing that invasive weeds have a direct impact on threatened native plants. This study experimentally tested the hypothesis that competition with invasive weeds threatens the rare outcrop plant Pachycladon cheesemanii (Brassicaceae). Pachycladon cheesemanii is a threatened South Island, New Zealand endemic with a distribution nearly confined to rock outcrops. It has disappeared from historical record sites throughout its range. The effects of weed competition and habitat on P. cheesemanii establishment, growth and survival were investigated by sowing seed into replicated plots subject to three treatments: weed removal, soil disturbed and unweeded control, in three habitat types: forested and open rock outcrops and open tussock grassland. The experiments were carried out at three locations: Mt Somers (Canterbury), Wye Creek and Diamond Lake (Otago). Within weedy rock outcrop habitat, weed removal significantly increased the rate of P. cheesemanii germination, and appeared to increase seedling growth rates, implying that weeds can negatively impact populations. Relative to rock outcrop habitat, P. cheesemanii germination was very low in adjacent open grassland habitat regardless of weeding treatment. Demographic monitoring of four natural populations of P. cheesemanii revealed that seed production is highly variable among populations and may be limited by browse and mechanical damage to inflorescences. Pachycladon cheesemanii does produce a persistent seed bank but most seed is found close to parent populations. Our results suggest that competition with invading weeds threatens current P. cheesemanii populations, that plant establishment can be enhanced by weed removal, and that considerable potential exists for artificially expanding populations by sowing seed into appropriate weed-free habitat.
24060858|Most New Zealand wetlands formed at or after the end of the last glaciation (c. 18 000 cal yrs BP). Those associated with major rivers and close to the coast tend to be young as erosive processes both destroy and initiate wetlands. However, there is a strong linear trend in initiations since 14 000 cal yrs BP, which suggests that geomorphic processes such as soil deterioration, landslides, sand dune movement and river course changes are constantly adding new, permanent wetlands. Most wetlands began as herbaceous fens but usually transitioned to shrub- or forest-covered bogfen systems, in particular after the beginning of the Holocene (11 500 cal yrs BP). Raised bogs formed from fens during the late-glacial and early Holocene, when river down-cutting isolated them from groundwater inflow. As climates warmed through the late-glacial and early Holocene, wooded wetlands spread and over 75% of lowland peat profiles preserve wood layers. Large basins with high water inflow often contain lakes or lagoons and have maintained herbaceous swamps, whereas those with limited catchments have become almost entirely covered with forest or shrubs. Wetlands in drier districts tend to have been initiated during the mid- and late Holocene as the climate cooled and rain-bearing systems penetrated more often. Ombrogenous montane and alpine bogs may have been initiated by the same climate change. Natural fires frequently burnt some wetlands, particularly within the vast bog complexes of the Waikato Basin, but many wetlands record occasional fire episodes. By the time Mori arrived in the 13th century, about 1% of the landscape was covered with some form of wetland and most of that wetland was under woody cover. Mori firing of the landscape began the process of removing the woody cover, which induced wetter, more herbaceous systems and initiated new wetlands. Deforestation of catchments in drier districts increased water yield that may in turn have created lowland fens and lagoons. European logging, fire and draining destroyed both pristine forested wetlands and fire-transformed systems from the Mori settlement era. The loss of wetlands is now largely a crisis of continued degradation through draining, weed invasion and fire in already human-altered systems in productive landscapes. Wetland history can help assess values and inform goals for conservation of wetlands, but transformation of the lowland landscape has been so complete that an historically authentic endpoint is unrealistic for most wetlands. The major conservation emphasis should be on larger wetlands that provide a range of ecosystem services.
24056368|Publishing trends in the New Zealand and Australian Journals' of Ecology (NZJE and AJE) were compared (1953-97) and publishing by contemporary (1997) Australasian authors examined from mid-1995 to 1998. The NZJE published a smaller proportion (9%) of their authors total manuscripts than the AJE (13%). Both Journals' authors published almost 70% of their manuscripts in international journals and 31% (NZ) and 35% (Aust.) in their local journals. The AJE consistently contained a high proportion (80%) of papers on the fundamental ecology of native species. In contrast, the NZJE gradually increased the proportion of papers on the ecology, impacts and management of exotic species (13%, 1953-62 to 52%, 1993-97) and reduced the proportion of manuscripts investigating the fundamental ecology of native species from 67% (1953-62) to 28% (1993-97). Comparisons show that the difference between the journals is due to a fundamental difference in the emphasis of ecological research in Australia and New Zealand that can, in part, be attributed to differences in the relative contribution of government research agencies to publishing in ecology in the two countries. Government research agencies contribute relatively more to ecological publishing in and from New Zealand than they do in Australia. However, the differences were also amplified by different submission behaviour by Australian and New Zealand authors. When submitting manuscripts about the ecology of native species and ecosystems, New Zealand ecologists favoured international journals rather than the NZJE, and local journals generally. Australian ecologists, on the other hand, favoured international journals over the AJE when submitting manuscripts on the ecology, impacts and management of exotic species.
24054507|Spider assemblages were sampled by quantitative sampling in pasture and arable habitats under different management regimes in the lower North Island of New Zealand. Density and species diversity increased with decreasing frequency and/or intensity of disturbance from two species and 1.8 individuals m2 in wheat to 16 species and 130 indiv. m2 in an abandoned, ungrazed pasture. The spider fauna was dominated by introduced species of money spiders (Linyphiidae). The most abundant species, Lepthyphantes tenuis, is also the most abundant one in British cultivated habitats. Additional pitfall trap samples from the same location and the Waikato, central North Island, indicated a similar species range containing mainly European species. A sample from a native tussock habitat had a completely different fauna, with only one species shared with the most undisturbed cultivated area. Comparative samples showed that similarly structured, but about twice as species-rich assemblages live in similar cultivated habitats in England.
24060710|We outline the scope of this special issue of New Zealand Journal of Ecology, which reviews progress in New Zealand ecology to 2009, based on a symposium in 2007. Both the issue and symposium update a 1986 conference and 1989 special issue of NZ J Ecol called "Moas, Mammals and Climate" which has been influential and widely cited. This issue revisits several themes featured in 1989, including the extent of recent and prehistoric extinctions in the New Zealand fauna; effects of introduced mammalian herbivores replacing now-extinct browsing birds such as moa; the impacts of introduced mammalian predators on native birds (hence the Feathers to Fur title); the role of islands as refuges and opportunities for restoration; and the status of bird-plant mutualisms like pollination and fruit dispersal. Several topics not discussed in 1989 are raised, including the unusual size and functional composition of New Zealand's tree flora, and several taxonomic groups (invertebrates, fungi) and habitats (fresh waters) that received little attention in 1989. We summarise four symposium talks which are not included elsewhere in this issue. New Zealand leads the world in ways both unenviable (e.g. levels of impact of introduced species) and enviable (e.g. predator eradication, translocations, rare species management). The recent advances reviewed in this issues have relevance well beyond New Zealand.
24052702|This paper considers how habitat geometry affects New Zealand bird distributions on land-bridge islands, oceanic islands, and forest patches. The data base consists of distributions of 60 native land and freshwater bird species on 31 islands. A theoretical section examines how species incidences should vary with factors such as population density, island area, and dispersal ability, in two cases: immigration possible or impossible. New Zealand bird species are divided into water-crossers and non-crossers on the basis of six types of evidence. Overwater colonists of New Zealand from Australia tend to evolve into non-crossers through becoming flightless or else acquiring a fear of flying over water. The number of land-bridge islands occupied per species increases with abundance and is greater for water-crossers than for non-crossers, as expected theoretically. Non-crossers are virtually restricted to large land-bridge islands. The ability to occupy small islands correlates with abundance. Some absences of species from particular islands are due to man-caused extinctions, unfulfilled habitat requirements, or lack of foster hosts. However, many absences have no such explanation and simply represent extinctions that could not be (or have not yet been) reversed by immigrations. Extinctions of native forest species due to forest fragmentation on Banks Peninsula have especially befallen non-crossers, uncommon species, and species with large area requirements. In forest fragments throughout New Zealand the distributions and area requirements of species reflect their population density and dispersal ability. All these patterns make abundantly clear that the future of New Zealand bird species confined to native forest hinges on preserving large tracts of native forest.
24060650|Feral cats were trapped and cat scats collected at Port Ross, Auckland Island, during two weeks in winter 2007. Eleven cats were caught and 40 scats collected, including from upland tussock areas. Cats' diet predominantly consisted of birds (77.5% occurrence in scats) and mice (52.5% occurrence). The cats were relatively heavy and in good condition compared with other feral cats in New Zealand populations.
24052815|Trend in the proportion of bare ground in some Canterbury tussock grasslands is analysed using records of vegetative cover from Fox Peak, South Opuha River (1963-1985); Porter River (1976-1984); Waimakariri Basin (1962-1978); and central Waimakariri River (1947-1981). The overall proportion of bare ground changed little in all four surveys. The lowest altitude site at Fox Peak and a low altitude plot in Porter River, showed a significant decrease in bare ground. Other plots and transects in Porter River and Fox Peak, and the Waimakariri Basin records showed no overall change. No significant trend was found for any of the central Waimakariri River transects, although some 20 m long segments of some transects show significant trends. The surveys suggest that there has been no overall increase or decrease in bare ground in the last 10-35 years, although vegetation composition has changed in some areas and significant decreases have occurred on some low altitude sites and significant increases on sites with more than 80% bare ground.
24056189|We examined the threat status of the low tree Pittosporum patulum throughout its range in eastern South Island, based on plot-based sampling of habitat, defoliation by mammalian herbivores, demographic and dieback characteristics. Using environmental modelling (Land Environments of New Zealand), we found no explanation for the 'gap' in its disjunct distribution from NelsonMarlboroughnorth Canterbury to south Canterbury as a component of upper montane Nothofagus forest and non-Nothofagus subalpine scrub. Size-classes in some populations suggest pulses of recruitment that may be phenologically or disturbance engendered, whereas others have demographic evidence for more continuous recruitment. In forest, disturbance appears not as important as environmental stress in maintaining understorey light gaps that allow it to reach reproductive maturity. A range of introduced mammalian herbivores appear to defoliate P. patulum, although consistently high levels of defoliation on adult foliage above ungulate browseheight point to possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) as the main pest. Demographic data and herbarium records show adults are few in NelsonMarlborough and north Canterbury, where the species' viability is in question despite many juveniles. Alternatively, south Canterbury populations, although browsed, show less dieback, especially in subalpine scrub. Its variable demography may be related to the history of possum colonisation throughout its range. Evidential support is provided for its threat ranking of 'nationally endangered'.
24056367|The idea that naturalised invading plants have fewer phytophagous insects associated with them in their new environment relative to their native range is often assumed, but quantitative data are few and mostly refer to pests on crop species. In this study, the incidence of seed-eating insect larvae in flowerheads of naturalised Asteraceae in New Zealand is compared with that in Britain where the species are native. Similar surveys were carried out in both countries by sampling 200 flowerheads of three populations of the same thirteen species. In the New Zealand populations only one seed-eating insect larva was found in 7800 flowerheads (0.013% infected flowerheads, all species combined) in contrast with the British populations which had 487 (6.24%) flowerheads infested. Possible reasons for the low colonization level of the introduced Asteraceae by native insects in New Zealand are 1) the relatively recent introduction of the plants (100-200 years), 2) their phylogenetic distance from the native flora, and 3) the specialised nature of the bud-infesting habit of the insects.
24052794|The foraging behaviour, diet and habitat use of North Island kokako (Callaeas cinerea wilsoni) were studied in Puketi State Forest from October 1981 to August 1982. Kokako fed mainly from branches and twigs of canopy and upper-understorey plants. Although 68 different foods were eaten, only eight contributed more than 5% to the observed diet in any season. The diet consisted of fruit (44%), unknown foods (18%), leaves (15%), epiphytes (11%), invertebrates (8%), buds (2%), flowers (1%) and nectar (1%). The use of these food-types varied seasonally. Fruit consumption was high in summer, autumn and winter, and invertebrates were taken mainly in spring. Kokako ate leaves, including those of epiphytes, most often in winter and least often in summer. When epiphytes, lianes and invertebrates are included with their host trees, kokako obtained most food from shrub hardwoods (54%). Use of the other vegetation types for food was as follows: tree hardwoods (30%); podocarps (14%); ground-storey plants (1%); and tree ferns (1%). Kokako fed mainly between the crown foliage of canopy trees and 3 m from the ground, where shrub hardwoods and much of the foliage of tree hardwoods and epiphytes predominated.
24053310|The impact of discharging an oxidation pond effluent into a wetland in the Waitangi Forest (Northland) was assessed by comparing the water, soil, and vegetation of this wetland (the sewage wetland) with that of an adjacent wetland not receiving effluent (the reference wetland). The hydroperiod of the two wetlands differs markedly with the sewage wetland now permanently flooded whereas the reference wetland is subject to summer drawdown. Marked differences were found in gross chemical indicators such as pH and redox potential between the soils of the 2 wetlands. Extreme differences were also found in the nutrient chemistry of the soils and this was related to differences in water chemistry. This was especially the case for the plant available forms of nitrogen and phosphorus. Typically the sewage wetland soil contained ammonium and inorganic phosphorus two orders of magnitude greater than that of the reference wetland. Major differences were noted also in the plant communities of the two wetlands. The sedge Eleocharis sphacelata and the bulrush Typha orientalis dominated communities covering a large part of the sewage wetland, whereas the reference wetland contained a much more diverse Baumea-Isachne grassy sedge community. Historical information indicated that the sewage wetland had similar hydrological, chemical, botanical characteristics to the reference wetland before discharge of the effluent commenced. It is concluded that most of the vegetation community changes that have occurred may be interpreted in terms of allogenic succession but that future community changes will have a strong autogenic component.
24056192|Little is known about the movement of stoats in alpine grassland, where several species of native birds, reptiles and invertebrates are potentially at risk from predation. Radio-tracking, live trapping and tracking tunnel techniques were used to sample stoats in two adjacent habitats to determine whether the home range of stoats in beech forest valley floors extends into neighbouring alpine grasslands in the Ettrick Burn Valley, Fiordland. If this is the case then trapping stoats in the more easily accessible beech forest valley floors might serve to protect endangered species inhabiting the adjacent but more remote alpine grasslands. Between December 2000 and March 2001, 415 radio locations were collected on 15 stoats and none were observed to make any significant movements between the two habitats. Stoats were active in alpine grasslands, and trapping in the adjacent beech forest valley would not have caught those stoats during the time-frame of this study. Further research is needed to determine long term impacts of trapping in beech forest on stoats in alpine grasslands. During the timeframe of this research stoats were more abundant in beech forest than in alpine grasslands, and tracking tunnels showed this trend to be consistent at other sites.
24058222|Although invertebrates play a key role in the environment, their conservation and use in environmental monitoring is often considered "too difficult" and consequently ignored. One of the main problems in dealing with invertebrates is that even limited sampling can yield large numbers of specimens and an enormous diversity of species. Other problems include the taxonomic impediment (i.e. high proportions of invertebrate taxa are undescribed and there are few specialists available to identify specimens), the lack of knowledge on species distribution, diversity and ecological roles, and the fact that invertebrates are undervalued by the general public. A number of rapid biodiversity assessment (RBA) approaches have been suggested to overcome these problems. RBA approaches generally fall into four categories: (1) restricted sampling in place of intensive sampling (sampling surrogacy); (2) the use of higher taxonomic levels than species (species surrogacy); (3) the use of recognisable taxonomic units (RTUs) identified by non-specialists (taxonomic surrogacy); and (4) the use of surrogate taxa in place of all taxa (taxon-focusing). Australia has a long history of using invertebrates in terrestrial ecological studies, and in developing and using RBA approaches. Therefore, New Zealand could benefit from the experienced gained in Australia. Potentially one of the most useful RBA approaches to take in New Zealand involves focusing resources and attention on a limited range of taxa. However, this requires substantial communication, discussion, and agreement over which taxa should be selected for conservation priorities and environmental monitoring in terrestrial ecosystems.
24056329|Fleshy fruits are typically coloured either red or black and are displayed in conspicuous locations where they can be easily located by birds. However, fleshy fruits in New Zealand are often white or translucently coloured and are displayed in the inner recesses of plant canopies. These characteristics have been attributed to coevolution with reptiles. I describe seed dispersal by a ground weta in Nelson lakes National Park, and hypothesise that the unusual characteristics of fleshy fruits in New Zealand may result from coevolution with weta.
24056358|Immediately before human settlement, dense tall podocarp-angiosperm forest dominated the moist Southland and southern coastal Otago districts. Open, discontinuous podocarp-angiosperm forest bordered the central Otago dry interior, extending along the north Otago coast. Grassland was mostly patchy within these woody ecosystems, occurring on limited areas of droughty or low-nutrient soils and wetlands, or temporarily after infrequent fire or other disturbance. Podocarpus hallii, Phyllocladus alpinus and Halocarpus bidwillii, small-leaved and asterad shrubs formed low forest and shrub associations in the semi arid interior, with Nothofagus menziesii prominent in the upper montane-subalpine zone. Substantial grasslands were confined to the alpine zone and dry terraces in intermontane basins. The arrival of the first Maori settlers at c. 800 BP led immediately to widespread burning and near-elimination of the fire-sensitive woody vegetation from all but the wettest districts. Non-Chionochloa grasses (probably species of Poa, Elymus and Festuca) and, in particular, bracken were the first to spread after fire; later, with continued fire, the more slowly spreading Chionochloa tussock grasslands became common. A unique suite of dryland woody ecosystems has thus been replaced with fire-induced grasslands. Recreation of the pre-human vegetation cover from the surviving small remnants is problematical because of the anomalous fire-sensitivity of the indigenous drought-tolerant flora. In the current historically unprecedented fire-prone environment, perhaps the best that can be hoped for is preservation of the status quo.
24060635|A number of factors have combined to diminish ecosystem integrity in New Zealand indigenous lowland forest fragments surrounded by intensively grazed pasture. Livestock grazing, mammalian pests, adventive weeds and altered nutrient input regimes are important drivers compounding the changes in fragment structure and function due to historical deforestation and fragmentation. We used qualitative systems modelling and empirical data from Beilschmiedia tawa dominated lowland forest fragments in the Waikato Region to explore the relevance of two common resilience paradigms  engineering resilience and ecological resilience  for addressing the conservation management of forest fragments into the future. Grazing by livestock and foraging/predation by introduced mammalian pests both have direct detrimental impacts on key structural and functional attributes of forest fragments. Release from these perturbations through fencing and pest control leads to partial or full recovery of some key indicators (i.e. increased indigenous plant regeneration and cover, increased invertebrate populations and litter mass, decreased soil fertility and increased nesting success) relative to levels seen in larger forest systems over a range of timescales. These changes indicate that forest fragments do show resilience consistent with adopting an engineering resilience paradigm for conservation management, in the landscape context studied. The relevance of the ecological resilience paradigm in these ecosystems is obscured by limited data. We characterise forest fragment dynamics in terms of changes in indigenous species occupancy and functional dominance, and present a conceptual model for the management of forest fragment ecosystems.
24060765|We used recent satellite imagery to quantify the extent, type, and rate of conversion of remaining indigenous grasslands in the inland eastern South Island of New Zealand in recent years. We describe the pattern of conversion in relation to national classifications of land use capability and land environments, and ecological and administrative districts and regions. We show that although large areas of indigenous grasslands remain, grassland loss has been ongoing. Indigenous grassland was reduced in the study area by 3% (70 200 ha) between 1990 and 2008. Almost two-thirds of post-1990 conversion occurred in threatened environments with less than 30% of indigenous cover remaining, primarily in the Waitaki, Mackenzie and Central Otago administrative districts. This conversion occurred primarily on non-arable land. In the Mackenzie and Waitaki districts the rate of conversion in 20012008 was approximately twice that in 19902001. Opportunities to protect more of the full range of indigenous grasslands lie with the continuing tenure review process in these districts.
24060722|Compared with the effect of invaders on the native terrestrial fauna of New Zealand, interactions between native fishes and introduced trout (sports fish in the genera Salmo, Oncorhynchus and Salvelinus) are less well known and there have been fewer efforts to remedy their effects. Trout have caused widespread reductions in the distribution and abundance of native galaxiid fishes, a family dominated by threatened species. The effects have been most severe on non-diadromous species (those lacking a marine migratory stage), which are commonly eliminated from streams by trout. Galaxiid populations in lakes, and those with migratory 'whitebait' stages, have also been affected, but the extent of the impacts are less understood. The mechanisms controlling negative interactions between trout and native fish, and how the environment modifies those interactions, will be important for future management. Experiments and field comparisons indicate size-specific predation by trout is the main driver of negative interactions. Large trout (>150 mm long) do the greatest damage and small galaxiids (those with adult sizes <150 mm long) are the most at risk. The fry stage of non-diadromous galaxiids is particularly vulnerable. Despite galaxiid fry production in some trout-invaded reaches, often no fry survive making them population 'sinks' that must be sustained by adult dispersal. Trout are also associated with changes in galaxiid behaviour and alterations to stream benthic communities. However, effects on galaxiid growth and fecundity have been little studied. Recent work also indicates that habitat conditions, especially floods, low flows and natural acidity, can mediate troutgalaxiid interactions. We argue that managers should be more proactive in their response to the plight of galaxiids, and we indentify avenues of research that will benefit native fish conservation activities in the future.
24052797|Extensive damage to native forest followed a prolonged period of severe frosts (12 days; lowest minimum  15C) in inland Taranaki. In Tangarakau Scenic Reserve, damage was most severe near the boundary between bush and pasture. Some species such as rimu (Dacrydium cupressinum) and miro (Podocarpus ferrugineus) were not affected; others like mamaku (Cyathea medullaris) recovered within a year. Mahoe (Melicytus ramiflorus) took more than 14 months to recover. Tawa (Beilschmiedia tawa) was the most seriously affected; many trees had most of their leaves killed. By December 1986 (53 months after the frost) affected trees had bare, dead upper branches with new sprouts arising from lower on the tree. Frost-damaged trees produced little radial increment for several years after the frost. The slow recovery of tawa shows that occasional rare events may have an important role in determining forest composition, and that a small change in the frequency of such events could alter the balance between species.
24058183|New Zealand forests have been substantially modified by introduced red deer over the past century. New Zealand's indigenous forest managers need to know if regeneration of palatable tree species can be restored following control or eradication of browsing ungulates. Aorangi Forest, Wairarapa, suffered dramatic changes in forest understorey composition by the 1950s after more than seven decades of colonisation by red deer (Cervus elaphus), feral goats (Capra hircus) and pigs (Sus scrofa). Since then feral goats have been eradicated, but red deer and pigs persist throughout Aorangi Forest despite ongoing recreational hunting. This study uses data from paired fenced and unfenced plots established at seven sites in Aorangi Forest between 1981 and 1987, and remeasured in 2004, to show the effects of ungulates on tree ( 2 cm diameter at breast height) regeneration and growth. Our results show that browsing by red deer has prevented regeneration of kanono (Coprosma grandifolia), a highly palatable, fast-growing sub-canopy hardwood tree. Deer reduced the growth of mahoe (Melicytus ramiflorus) trees, probably by directly browsing epicormic shoots. The regeneration of other less palatable sub-canopy trees (e.g. porokaiwhiri, Hedycarya arborea), and slower-growing canopy species (e.g. hinau, Elaeocarpus dentatus and rewarewa, Knightia excelsa) appears to have been unaffected by deer browsing. Accordingly, tree species composition does not appear to have been greatly affected by browsing from deer populations in Aorangi Forest over the past two decades.
24060861|Artificial nests are frequently used to assess factors affecting survival of natural bird nests. We tested the potential for artificial nests to be used in a novel application, the prediction of nest predation rates at potential reintroduction sites where exotic predators are being controlled. We collected artificial nest data from nine sites with different predator control regimes around the North Island of New Zealand, and compared the nest survival rates with those of North Island robin (Petroica longipes) nests at the same sites. Most of the robin populations had been reintroduced in the last 10 years, and were known to vary in nest survival and status (increasing/stable or declining). We derived estimates of robin nest survival for each site based on Stanley estimates of daily survival probabilities and the known incubation and brooding periods of robins. Estimates of artificial nest survival for each site were derived using the known fate model in MARK. We identified the imprints on the clay eggs in the artificial nests, and obtained different estimates of artificial nest survival based on imprints made by different potential predators. We then compared the value of these estimates for predicting natural nest survival, assuming a relationship of the form s = p, where s is natural nest survival and p is artificial nest survival. Artificial nest survival estimates based on imprints made by rats (Rattus spp.) and brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) were clearly the best predictors (based on AICc), and explained 64% of the variation in robin nest survival among sites. Inclusion of bird imprints in the artificial nest survival estimates substantially reduced their predictive value. We suggest that artificial nests may provide a useful tool for predicting the suitability of potential reintroduction sites for New Zealand forest birds as long as imprints on clay eggs are correctly identified.
24060801|Succession from fire-induced grassland to secondary shrubland vegetation is occurring in parts of deforested dry eastern South Island, New Zealand, but little is known about how the change from herbaceous to woody vegetation alters the indigenous biota. We predicted that development of secondary shrublands would exclude few grassland-specialist plant species and increase indigenous plant 'species occupancy' (the extent to which indigenous species capable of living in dryland landscapes are present) at a landscape scale. We also predicted that taller and denser indigenous plant canopies would facilitate indigenous but not exotic plant species at multiple scales, for example by reducing exotic grass competition or through positive plantplant interactions. We tested our predictions by sampling vegetation in 100-ha blocks representing a gradient from grassland to mixed 'intermediate' grassland and shrubland to shrubland vegetation at three sites in Central Otago. We found indigenous plant species in shrubland were complementary to those in grassland (additional to the existing set) within and across our study sites, which led to higher indigenous species occupancy in this dryland landscape. Grassland vegetation did not support significant numbers of indigenous plant species complementary to those in shrubland, and we found no evidence that secondary succession displaced indigenous plant species. Shrubland had higher diversity of indigenous plant species than grassland at multiple scales (across sites, within 100-ha blocks and within 144-m2 plots), and had higher indigenous dominance of composition across sites, but not at smaller (within-block and within-plot) scales. Indigenous dominance of composition within blocks and plots was related to dominance of the physical structure of plant communities by indigenous woody plants or tussock grasses, rather than to development of secondary shrubland alone. Reduced densities of indigenous plant species were related to higher frequencies of exotic grass only where indigenous structural dominance was low, indicating that competitive exclusion of indigenous plants by exotic grasses may depend on degradation of indigenous structural dominance. We conclude that secondary succession from structurally-depleted grassland to mixed indigenousexotic shrubland is likely to assist the conservation of indigenous plant species in this dryland landscape.
24053651|Home range and diet of stoats inhabiting beech forest were examined by trapping and radio-tracking. Eleven stoats (6 female, 5 male) were fitted with radio-transmitters. Minimum home ranges of five females averaged 124  21 ha and of four males 206  73 ha. Range lengths of females averaged 2.3  0.3 km and of males 4.0  0.9 km. These differences were not statistically significant. Adult female stoats appeared to have mutually exclusive home ranges. Two females and one male had home ranges that were bisected by the Eglinton River. All three crossed the river regularly and could only have done so by swimming. Bird remains were found in 54% of stoat guts and scats examined, lagomorphs in 33%, and invertebrates in 34%. Australian brushtail possum remains were found in 11% of samples overall, but only in guts and scats from male stoats. A road through the study area affected the behaviour of stoats. Females avoided the road but males preferred it and were found scavenging road-kills, which may explain why they are more frequently found as road-kills themselves. In most years, New Zealand beech forest may be marginal habitat for stoats. No breeding was detected in the year of our study but there had been high productivity in the previous season. Stoats probably survive in this habitat because they are flexible in their diet and because their breeding biology allows them to respond rapidly to a sudden increase in food availability.
24052610|Circumstances that give rise to samples of dead animals from natural populations are considered and five important particular situations are emphasized. In two of these situations it is possible to estimate the absolute mortality rates of animals in the natural populations concerned. In the other three situations the populations comprise two or more different types of animal and only the relative mortality rates of these can be estimated. The most obvious examples of the first two situations come from bird banding experiments. Models for such experiments are therefore briefly reviewed. A Poisson model for samples of dead animals from a population with an unknown initial size is proposed and is shown to produce survival rate estimates that can be readily calculated on the assumption that the survival rate per unit time becomes constant for older animals. This model is of value since the estimation does not require iterative computer calculations whereas other models making essentially the same assumptions do require these. The third and fourth situations that have been considered concern large populations with relatively small numbers of deaths. The relative mortality rates of the different types of animals in the populations can be estimated by comparing the proportions of dead animals of the different types with the corresponding proportions of live animals. The final situation discussed occurs when animals have associated with them values for certain characters X1, X2,..., XP and the relative mortality rates of animals with different X values is to be determined by comparing the distribution of the X's for live and dead animals.
24058101|Small isolated patches of native forest surrounded by extensive pastoral grasslands, characteristic of many New Zealand rural landscapes, represent an important reservoir of lowland biodiversity. Improved management of them is a major focus of biodiversity conservation initiatives in New Zealand. We quantified the long-term impacts of grazing on indigenous forest remnants in hill country at Whatawhata, western Waikato, North Island. Structure and composition were compared between forest fragments grazed for >50 years and nearby ungrazed continuous forest. Grazed fragments had shorter and less shady canopies, sparser understoreys, tree populations with larger mean diameters, and ground layers with lower cover of litter and higher cover of vegetation and bare soil than continuous forest. Fragments also had lower indigenous-plant species richness, especially in sapling and seedling populations, and almost no palatable indigenous shrubs, terrestrial orchids, and ferns that require high himidity (e.g. Hymenophyllum spp.), but contained many indigenous and adventive herbaceous species. A transition appears to be occurring in grazed fragments from tall, long-lived trees like Beilschmiedia tawa and Dysoxylum spectabile to short and shorter-lived trees like Kunzea ericoides, Melicytus ramiflorus, and Dicksonia squarrosa. Because grazing inhibits most regeneration processes, unfenced remnants of coniferbroadleaved forest are unlikely to be maintained in grazed pasture in the long term.
24053243|The history of the New Zealand biota over the last 7000 years may be divided into three phases. BC 5000 to AD 1000 was a period of comparative ecological stasis. That equilibrium was disrupted between AD 1000 and AD 1800 by the destruction of most of the New Zealand plant-herbivore systems, the co-evolutionary relationship between the plants and the vertebrate herbivores being decoupled by about AD 1400. After AD 1800 new plant-herbivore systems were progressively developed and new ecological relationships forged. Our view of that past, and of how the future might best be managed, has less to do with those facts than with judgements of value.
24053639|A technique for inferring long term time trends in vegetation from permanent quadrat data using the different patterns in the scattergram of the mean and rates of change of attributes, e.g., cover, from individual quadrats over short periods is described. The technique is illustrated using point intercept cover data for Hieracium species from permanent transects in the Waimakariri measured at intervals over 35 years. There was an exponential increase of 8.6% of Hieracium spp. percentage cover once they appeared in a quadrat up to about 15% cover. The indications were that Hieracium may stabilize on these sites at an upper mean level of c. 34% cover.
24058157|Nutrients brought to land by seabirds may provide important subsidies to terrestrial ecosystems. We measured the total kjeldahl nitrogen (TKN) and carbon and nitrogen isotope ratios of soils from islands with and without seabirds in the Marlborough Sounds, New Zealand, to investigate one means by which seabirds may influence island ecosystem function. Isotope analysis revealed a seabird influence in island soils on the seabird-inhabited islands. However, significant differences in TKN were not related to seabird presence or absence. Pre-existing differences between the islands and high productivity even in the absence of seabirds were concluded to be the reasons for the lack of measurable seabird influence on nitrogen levels.
24053177|Norway rats were eradicated on bush-covered Hawea Island (9 ha) in Breaksea Sound, using the anticoagulant rodenticide "Talon 50 WB" (brodifacoum). The work was done as a conservation measure and to evaluate the feasibility and costs of eradicating rodents quickly from islands. The 50-100 rats present were eradicated in about two weeks by applying a simple strategy that took full account of the characteristics of the poison, the environment, and the behaviour of the target species. The technique used was designed to monitor its own progress, kill every rat as quickly as possible, continually detect the presence of surviving rats, limit the risk to non-target species, and overcome the many problems often associated with "getting the last rat".
24060623|Large trees are a significant structural component of old-growth forests and are important as habitat for epiphytic biodiversity; as substantial stores of biomass, carbon and nutrient; as seed trees; and as engineers of large gap sites for regeneration. Their low density across the landscape is an impediment to accurately measuring growth and mortality, especially as infrequent tree deaths are rarely captured without long periods of monitoring. Here we present large-tree ( 30 cm in diameter at breast height) growth and mortality rates for six common New Zealand tree species over a 42-year period from 28 large permanent plots (0.40.8 ha) in the central North Island. Our goal was to examine how rates of growth and mortality varied with tree size and species. In total we sampled 1933 large trees across 11.6 ha, corresponding to a large-tree density of 167 trees ha1, of which we used 1542 as our six study species. Mean annual mortality rates varied more than 10-fold among species being least in Dacrydium cupressinum (0.16%) and greatest in Weinmannia racemosa (2.21%). Diameter growth rates were less variable among species and ranged from 1.8 mm yr1 in Ixerba brexioides to 3.3 mm yr1 in D. cupressinum. Tree size influenced the rate of mortality in Beilschmiedia tawa, I. brexioides and W. racemosa but there was no support for including tree size in models of the remaining three species. Likewise, tree size influenced growth rates in I. brexioides and Nothofagus menziesii but not the remaining four species. These data provide robust size- and species-specific estimates of large-tree demographic rates that can be used as baselines for monitoring the impacts of management and global change in old-growth forests.
24058102|The establishment and subsequent impacts of invasive plant species often involve interactions or feedbacks with the below-ground subsystem. We compared the performance of planted tree seedlings and soil communities in three ectomycorrhizal tree species at Craigieburn, Canterbury, New Zealand  two invasive species (Pseudotsuga menziesii, Douglas-fir; Pinus contorta, lodgepole pine) and one native (Nothofagus solandri var. cliffortioides, mountain beech)  in monodominant stands. We studied mechanisms likely to affect growth and survival, i.e. nutrient competition, facilitation of carbon and nutrient transfer through mycorrhizal networks, and modification of light and soil conditions by canopy trees. Seedlings were planted in plastic tubes filled with local soil, and placed in monospecific stands. Effects of root competition from trees and mycorrhizal connections on seedling performance were tested by root trenching and use of tubes with or without a fine mesh (20 m), allowing mycorrhizal hyphae (but not roots) to pass through. Survival and growth were highest in stands of Nothofagus and lowest under Pseudotsuga. Surprisingly, root trenching and mesh treatments had no effect on seedling performance, indicating canopy tree species affected seedling performance through reduced light availability and altered soil conditions rather than below-ground suppression from root competition or mycorrhizal facilitation. Seedlings in Pseudotsuga stands had lower mycorrhizal colonisation, likely as a result of the lower light levels. Soil organic matter levels, microbial biomass, and abundance and diversity of microbe-consuming nematodes were all highest under Nothofagus, and nematode community assemblages differed strongly between native and non-native stand types. The negative effects of non-native trees on nematodes relative to Nothofagus are likely due to the lower availability of soil organic matter and microbial biomass in these stands, and therefore lower availability of resources for nematodes. This study shows that established stands of non-native invasive tree species may adversely affect tree seedlings and soil communities through modifications of the microenvironment both above and below ground. As such, invasion and domination of new landscapes by these species is likely to result in fundamental shifts in community- and ecosystem-level properties relative to those under native forest cover.
24054516|The Intermediate Disturbance Hypothesis [IDH] and the Gradual Climate Change Hypothesis [GCC] offer intuitively appealing, verbal non-equilibrium explanations to species coexistence in competitive communities, but so far they lack a solid theoretical background and a proper experimental methodology. To make them testable and comparable on a solid methodological basis, they should be formulated as well-defined non-equilibrium community dynamical models. We suggest that this is possible, if explicit assumptions on the spatiotemporal structure of the environment and the pattern-generating mechanisms of the species assemblage in question are given. In the framework of a non-spatial population dynamical model we show that disturbance and climate change effects can be safely distinguished, and the "intermediate" level of external effects leading to maximum community diversity can be quantified. Based on the information statistical analysis of field data and simulation results, we explain why it is necessary to consider simultaneously the spatiotemporal patterns of the vegetation, the abiotic environment and the disturbances in order to predict the consequences of external effects regarding community diversity.
24053636|Chionochloa species vary in the degree to which they are grazed by introduced ruminants. This is presumed to reflect the relative nutritive value and/or palatability of the forage provided by these indigenous grasses. Data are presented here on silicon content, in vitro organic matter digestibility (OMD), metabolisable energy (ME), crude protein and total nutrient mineral (TNM) contents of mature leaves of eleven Chionochloa species in southern New Zealand. Silification in all species is low, possibly as an evolutionary consequence of the absence of native mammalian herbivores in New Zealand. OMD determinations indicate a generally low nutritive value for these tussock grasses. Species characteristic of oligotrophic peats (C. acicularis and C. crassiuscula ssp. torta) produced very low values (20-25%) but others (C. pallens ssp. cadens, C. macra and C. ovata) approached OMD levels of medium quality pasture (50-60%). Crude protein values are also in the poor to moderate range (4.13% in C. acicularis to 8.34% in C. ovata). The values for total nutrient mineral content largely parallel those for protein. The results are discussed in relation to the apparent relative palatability of each species in the field, and the vulnerability to grazing of some species with restricted distributions.
24052708|Seventeen exclosures were built by the New Zealand Forest Service within Urewera forests over the period 196168 to exclude ungulates. Forest structure and species composition inside and outside these exclosures were compared in 198081. Some relatively shade tolerant species such as the fern Asplenium bulbiferum, the liane Ripogonum scandens, the sub-canopy shrubs Geniostoma ligustrifolium and Coprosma australis and the canopy species Beilschmiedia tawa were less abundant in certain tiers outside the exclosures than inside. By contrast, only a few species were more abundant outside then inside the exclosures. These included the unpalatable shrub Pseudowintera colorata, turf-forming Uncinia species and Cardamine debilis. Overall density and species richness for small diametered trees and for the sapling tier were lower outside the exclosures than inside. Despite the large reduction in ungulate numbers throughout Urewera forests these introduced browsing animals, particularly deer, still affect the structure and composition of most forest types.
24060892|Many reports exist of Australian magpies (Gymnorhina tibicen) attacking and sometimes killing other birds. One study concluded that magpies had little impact on the abundance of other birds at landscape scales, but another found that birds (mainly exotic species) avoided flying or landing close to them. We assessed whether continuously removing magpies for 6 weeks from localised areas of high resource availability (e.g. bush remnants or private gardens with fruit- or nectar-producing trees) in rural areas increased visitations by native birds compared with similar sites where magpies were not removed. Three count methods were used to estimate bird abundance: five-minute bird counts and 'slow-walk' transects in bush remnants, and five-minute bird counts and 'snapshot' counts in gardens. Generally, the abundance of native birds did not increase in treatment areas after magpie removal. In bush remnants, transect counts were typically better at detecting the presence of most species compared with five-minute bird counts. In gardens, snapshot counts were better at detecting tui (Prosthemadera novaeseelandiae) while five-minute bird counts were better at detecting magpies. Despite these differences, the different bird counting methods were generally in agreement and revealed that magpies had little impact on native birds at the scale we examined.
24054512|New Zealand flowers are frequently considered unspecialised allowing easy access to pollen and nectar by a wide range of visitors. Most conform with a syndrome of insect pollination (entomophily). Pollination of forest flowers by birds has been described for a range of species whose flowers are morphologically ornithophilous. On Kapiti Island and Little Barrier Island, all three species of New Zealand honeyeaters have been described feeding on flowers currently assumed to be entomophilous or where the pollination system is unknown. The persistence and regularity of visits suggests that the birds are obtaining suitable rewards in the form of nectar and could be serving as pollinators. We measured the nectar energetic value from flowers of three ornithophilous and five entomophilous species. Nectar production over 24 hours was highest in ornithophilous species, but the standing crop of nectar overlapped - ornithophilous species: Metrosideros fulgens (standing crop 6.6 J), Metrosideros excelsa (22 J), and Fuchsia excorticata (1.8 J); and entomophilous: Pittosporum crassifolium (23 J), Pseudopanax arboreus (1.5 J), Dysoxylum spectabile (3.7 early flowers - 6.7 J late flowers), Pittosporum eugenioides (2.7 J) and Geniostoma rupestre (1.8 J). The entomophilous species present the flowers in aggregation and as result birds can visit a large number flowers per minute. We found that the average estimated nectar consumption rate for all the entomophilous species except G. rupestre was enough to sustain the two smaller New Zealand honeyeaters (hihi energy requirements= 0.12 kJ min1, median energy obtained: 0.16 kJ min1 D. spectabile - 0.57 kJ min1 P. crassifolium); bellbird energy requirements = 0.10 kJ min1, median energy obtained: 0.14 kJ min1 D. spectabile - 0.68 kJ min1 P. crassifolium). However, we estimate that if the birds are able to selectively forage on the flowers with most nectar, the energetic returns of all species may be sufficient for hihi and bellbird (hihi: 0.18 kJ min1 G. rupestre - 0.93 kJ min1; P. crassifolium; bellbird: 0.12 kJ min1 G. rupestre - 1.11 kJ min1 P. crassifolium). If tui (energy requirements: 0.25 kJ min1), forages randomly, only P. crassifolium (0.80 kJ min1) and D. spectabile late in the season (0.30 kJ min1) provide sufficient returns, but if selective, P. arboreus (0.45 kJ min1) may also suffice. We suggest that because (a) the nectar produced by entomophilous flowers provides sufficient energy to sustain the energetic requirements of birds, and (b) these plants flower in the cooler months when insect activity is reduced, birds might have played a wider role in pollination than previously considered. This finding is of particular importance because the abundance of New Zealand honeyeaters on the mainland has decreased considerably since human colonisation and this could be affecting forest regeneration.
24054525|Fire has been an important management tool in the pastoral use of New Zealand tussock grasslands. The effects of a farm-scale pastoral fire and subsequent grazing by sheep on soil biochemical properties in tussock grasslands dominated by the narrow-leaved snow tussock (Chionochloa rigida ssp. rigida) were investigated, 1.5 and 2.5 years after the fire event, in 0-2 cm depth mineral soil at a site at 975 m altitude in Central Otago, New Zealand. The nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) concentrations of C. rigida leaves were also measured. Comparisons were made with soil and tussock leaves from an adjacent unburned site. At both samplings, values of total soil organic carbon (C), extractable C, microbial biomass C, and basal respiratory activity were, on average, 14%, 18%, 23%, and 40%, respectively, lower at the burned than at the unburned site. In contrast, microbial N values were roughly similar at both sites, while microbial P values were 42% higher at the burned site after 1.5 years. Phosphomonoesterase and phosphodiesterase activities were then also similar at both sites, whereas invertase activity was higher at the burned site. The greater availability of N and P at the burned site was confirmed by the higher concentrations of N and P in C. rigida leaves sampled 2 years after the fire. Ratios of microbial C:microbial N and microbial C:microbial P were significantly lower at both samplings at the burned site, and emphasise the importance of the soil microbial biomass in conserving N and P after pastoral burning in a grassland ecosystem.
24052015|Unusually heavy rodent interference with apple-baited live-traps set for brush-tailed possums (Trichosurus vulpecula Kerr) in a 15-year-old Pinus radiata stand prompted an attempt to reduce the local rodent population by snap-trapping. Twenty-two ship rats (Rattus rattus L.) were caught in 192 trap-nights in late July 1975 and seventeen of them were collected for autopsy. Stomach contents consisted largely of invertebrate remains, with lepidopteran larvae, wetas (Rhaphidophoridae) and bibionid larvae predominating.
24060616|Sap-feeding insects can excrete considerable quantities of sugar-rich honeydew. In New Zealand, South Island beech (Nothofagus spp.) forests are shaped by the extensive honeydew resource produced by two endemic coelostomidiid species (Ultracoelostoma assimile and U. brittini) and geckos on northern islands are known to feed on the honeydew of a third endemic coelostomidiid, Coelostomidia zealandica. There are six other endemic coelostomidiid species in New Zealand that utilise a range of plant hosts but the ecological role of these species is poorly understood. A survey of mainland forests in the Auckland Ecological Region was conducted in FebruaryApril 2006 to investigate the distribution and abundance of coelostomidiids in this area. Three coelostomidiid species were detected in the survey (C. zealandica, C. pilosa and C. wairoensis) and five new hostscale insect associations were identified. C. zealandica was uncommon, C. pilosa was widespread in broadleavedpodocarp forest but only formed light infestations, and C. wairoensis was present in all teatree stands examined, often forming heavy infestations on knuka (Kunzea ericoides). Infested knuka trees had sooty moulds growing on them and exotic wasps were regularly seen feeding on C. wairoensis honeydew. The extent and intensity of C. wairoensis infestation on knuka suggests it will have community-level impacts.
24053607|Scutellaria novae-zelandiae is a small herb restricted to the Nelson/Marlborough region. Aspects of its ecology were studied to assist in the management of wild populations. An absolute estimate of abundance is not possible as individual Scutellaria plants are indistinguishable and it grows in small patches up to 20 m2. There are probably between 50 and 100 such patches in podocarp-beech forest below 200 m a.s.l. on freely drained alluvium and colluvium. The vigour of Scutellaria patches as estimated from changes in shoot frequency and seed production varies widely depending on site conditions. It cannot tolerate competition from ferns, herbs, weeds, and shrub growth which occurs once the ground surface stabilises. Patches of Scutellaris have a marked seasonal variation in mean height, reaching a peak of approximately 12-15 cm during flowering (November-December), and then declining. Fresh Scutellaria seeds take several weeks to germinate and many enter the soil seed bank. Seedlings rarely appeared in bare ground plots at the field sites, but many emerged rapidly from topsoil samples placed in a glasshouse, along with abundant seedlings of vigorous adventive weeds. Scutellaria patches expand mainly by vegetative means. Scutellaria has been reduced in abundance by grazing at some sites, yet at others it has probably benefitted from grazing through the removal of competition from other plants, including adventive weeds. The implications of the results for the conservation of Scutellaria are mentioned.
24060832|Ecological compensation involves measures to create positive conservation outcomes intended to offset the residual impacts of development (e.g. restoration planting, pest control). Rarely, however, have the exchanges arranged been subject to objective assessment. Here we assess 110 cases of ecological compensation involving diverse New Zealand ecosystems on the basis of how they addressed the six key implementation issues identified by McKenney and Kiesecker (2010: Environmental Management 45: 165176): equivalence, location (i.e. spatial proximity), additionality, timing, duration and compliance, and currencies. Our research showed that habitat enhancement and protection is the most common form of ecological compensation, and that 72 of 110 case studies undertook compensation on the same site or immediately adjacent. The great majority (94.5%) of compensation was required by condition of resource consent to be demonstrated after the development had proceeded, with an average of 11.3 years of continuing management or monitoring required. The most common form of security other than a consent condition was a covenant (29 of 110 cases) followed by a resource management bond (25). We also found that in 97 cases there was no objective quantification of the compensation needed to make up for impact losses, with the requirements being devised by negotiation between parties with the assistance of expert input. We recognise the potential of ecological compensation as a policy tool, but recommend that significant improvements are made to its implementation to enhance ecological outcomes.
24060800|Anthropogenic fire has transformed New Zealand's vegetation. Small-scale historical Mori fires in the forests of Te Urewera National Park, North Island, initiated forest successions that were dominated early on by Kunzea ericoides (Myrtaceae), and later by Knightia excelsa (Proteaceae) and Weinmannia racemosa (Cunoniaceae). Previous work in these forests suggested that the more recent of these successions, initiated after the arrival of deer in the late 19th century, have failed to recover to pre-fire composition and structure. This failure was attributed to browsing pressure that prevented palatable canopy tree species such as Weinmannia racemosa establishing at adequate densities. We tested this hypothesis by quantifying changes in forest structure, tree species composition and above-ground tree biomass between 1980 and 2010 using permanent forest plots in three successional communities. The three communities were dominated by (1) Kunzea ericoides  kanuka, (2) Knightia excelsa  rewarewa, and (3) Weinmannia racemosa  kamahi. We show that above-ground biomass increased in all communities between 1980 and 2010, and did so most strongly in the first two communities. However, tree species composition changed little over the same time except for a more than three-fold increase in tree fern abundance in the kanuka community where they are now co-dominant with Kunzea ericoides. Recruitment of trees of canopy species was very low ( 0.06% per year) relative to mortality (1.13.9% per year) in all three communities. The proportional increase in above-ground biomass observed in the kanuka community was low relative to the large proportional increase in basal area. This occurred because of the higher abundance of tree ferns in 2010 plots that have low stem tissue density. The minimal compositional change over 30 years in these communities and paucity of recruitment of trees of canopy species point to arrested succession. Without management intervention to increase tree recruitment rates of canopy species, forest successions in this region will be characterised by high tree fern abundance, low biomass at local scales, and limited transitions to tall forest communities.
24052671|The relative abundance of possum faecal pellets in two neighbouring blocks of lowland rimu-rata forest was measured. On the commercially-trapped and poisoned block, 12.9% of sample plots contained pellets, compared with 26.3% on the other block free of hunters for 14 years. On the commercially exploited block there was a mean 0.215 pellets/m2 compared with 0.347/m2 on the untrapped block, which was probably carrying its full capacity of 9.0-12.3 possums/ha. If the relative abundance of faecal pellets directly reflects the relative abundance of possums, the trappers were holding possum numbers to between 49% and 63% of the full carrying capacity, though the confidence limits for these figures cannot be calculated.
24058128|Ratites (ostriches Struthio camelus) and ungulates (red deer Cervus elaphus scoticus and goats Capra hircus) were presented with 14 indigenous shrubs in cafeteria-style trials. The shrubs represented the spectrum of woody plant architecture, ranging from broadleaved monopodial species through to small-leaved highly branched divaricates. Trials were stopped when almost all shoots of the plant expected to be most preferred had been consumed. There were considerable differences between the herbivores in their selection of certain plant species. Aristotelia fruticosa was avoided by deer, neutrally selected by goats, and preferred by ostriches. All herbivores strongly avoided two species, Pseudopanax crassifolius and Coprosma rugosa. Analysis of relative offtake (proportion of biomass consumed from each species, relative to total biomass consumed) showed that all three herbivores ate less of species with small leaves. Consumption by all herbivores was reduced by structural plant traits (i.e. divarication and related attributes) more than by chemical plant traits. The immediate impact of browsing on the plants, measured as the rank of proportion of shoots eaten, was broadly similar across the herbivores. The broadleaved species (e.g. Myrsine australis, Aristotelia serrata) experienced the greatest browsing, while divaricate (e.g. Coprosma rugosa) and conifer species (e.g. Podocarpus hallii) were generally least browsed. Although cafeteria-style experiments have limitations, our results for deer broadly correspond to those of field-based diet preference studies.
24058146|The forests of Rangatira Island (218 ha) in the Chatham Islands are a critical breeding site for a number of rare and threatened forest bird species, but are also home to more than three million seabirds, which could significantly affect forest regeneration processes. We surveyed the forests of Rangatira Island by establishing 40 permanent forest plots, estimated seabird density through burrow counts, and analysed soil properties. To determine if seabirds were impacting on forest regeneration, we established exclosures (0.25 m2) in 30 of the forest plots, and examined the role of canopy gaps in forest regeneration. The tallest current forest (c. 15 m), dominated by Plagianthus chathamicus, has mostly regenerated since stock were removed in 1959. Mean burrow density was estimated to be 1.19 per square metre, all soils were highly acidic (pH 3.365.18), and burrow density was positively correlated with soil phosphorus. Seedling density of woody species in seabird exclosures measured after 9, 24 and 33 months was significantly higher than in the adjacent non-gap plots, and seedling density was positively associated with reduced canopy cover. Seedling densities were also significantly higher in canopy gaps than in adjacent non-gap plots, but seabird burrow density was significantly lower in gaps. These results suggest that canopy gaps allow forest regeneration despite the negative impacts of seabird burrowing. However, the gap makers, largely senescing Olearia traversii, are slowly disappearing from the forests. The cohort of Plagianthus that has regenerated following farm abandonment may progressively collapse, allowing regeneration to continue in small openings, but there is also the potential for a catastrophic blowdown. This might have serious implications for forest-dwelling birds, invertebrates, and plants.
24052387|Fairy prions, Pachyptila turtur, breed in large numbers on Stephens Island in north-western Cook Strait. The 1974-75 breeding cycle was followed with the aid of observation burrows. Laying, hatching and chick departure times were between those previously observed by Harper (1976) on the Poor Knights Islands and Richdale (1945, 1965) in Foveaux Strait. Tuatara, Sphenodon punctatus, are also numerous on the island and often share burrows with the prions. They were directly responsible for the loss of more than one quarter of the eggs and chicks, by predation and interference in the nesting chamber. This mortality is not considered to be a major factor in the regulation of fairy prion populations. That the tuatara-petrel relationship is complex, frequently aggressive, and almost exclusively favours the reptile, is emphasised by this studv.
24054741|Fuchsia (Fuchsia excorticata) has been heavily browsed and often killed by brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) in many New Zealand indigenous forests, but remains healthy at some sites despite long histories of possum occupation. To determine whether fuchsia varied genetically in its palatability to possums, material from six widely dispersed stands (provenances) was propagated, and leaf chemistry, leaf morphology, growth rate, and palatability to captive possums was compared. Leaf specific gravity, nitrogen, and phosphorous levels in field-collected foliage varied between palatable and apparently unpalatable provenances of fuchsia. However, these variables, and palatability to captive possums, were similar in propagated material from all provenances. To test the hypothesis that selective browsing had eliminated the more palatable or susceptible genotypes at sites where possums have been present for long periods, we tested the relationship between variation within provenances of measured variables and length of possum occupation at each site, but no significant relationships were found. These results suggest that phenotypic or situational differences rather than genetic variation between the six provenances may help explain observed regional differences in fuchsia health.
24058144|Control of one pest species may permit increases in abundance of other pests, thereby reducing the overall net benefit from pest control. We provide evidence that control of introduced possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) may increase ship rat (Rattus rattus) abundance in some New Zealand native forests. Ship rat abundance in a podocarphardwood forest was assessed using simple interference indices over 14 years (19902004) that included two aerial possum-poisoning operations (1994, 2000). Ship rat demography and rat and possum diet were measured from June 2001 to June 2003 when the rat population was increasing after the 2000 poisoning. Mean ship rat abundance indices increased nearly fivefold after possum control and remained high for up to 6 years after the 1994 poisoning. Rat fecundity was high (50100% of adult females breeding), even during winter, and young animals dominated the population (73% in age classes 13) in 20012002 when rat numbers were increasing. During 20022003, rat abundance stabilised, without marked winter or spring reductions, the population aged significantly (only 32% in age classes 13), and fecundity declined to low levels (427% of adult females breeding). Although seeds and fruit dominated the diet of rats driving population recovery after control (74.0% of total diet by dry weight), rat fecundity was instead closely correlated with the proportional consumption of invertebrates (r=0.91). Juvenile survival was correlated with proportional seed consumption (r =0.75), while adult survival was correlated with combined seed and invertebrate consumption (r=0.83). Adult rats ate more seeds and fewer invertebrates than juvenile rats. Seeds and fruit also dominated possum diet (52.2% of total diet). These results are consistent with the hypothesis that increased rat abundance following possum control is a consequence of greater availability of, or reduced competition for, seeds and fruit.
24054524|We examined the distribution and abundance of the invasive Hieracium species (hawkweeds) in the dry grasslands of the Upper Waitaki Basin (Canterbury) and Otago, using measures of Hieracium species frequency and hawkweed cover from 301 vegetation plots. Average hawkweed cover was significantly less in Otago than Canterbury. Hawkweed cover was also lower on drier sites, with hawkweeds having less cover at lower elevation, on more xeric sites and, in Canterbury, on soils with a lower moisture holding capacity. Environmental variables (elevation, moisture index, soil class, and measures of rabbit activity and the amount of recent pasture development) explained 43% of the variation in hawkweed cover in Canterbury, but only 25% in Otago. Furthermore, having controlled for environmental differences among plots, hawkweed cover in Otago was significantly spatially autocorrelated such that plots on the same property had similar hawkweed cover, but tended to differ from plots on other properties. This pattern is consistent with the hypothesis that variation in property management influenced the degree of hawkweed infestation. However, the same pattern was not found in Canterbury. We propose a general model to explain the observed patterns. The probability that a site will be invaded by hawkweeds is a function of: (1) the suitability of the site for hawkweed establishment (a function of the environment and past management), and (2) the size of the hawkweed propagule rain. The probability of hawkweed invasion is high when one or both of these variables have high values. Following initial invasion, there will be more local propagules coming from newly established plants and hawkweed cover at a site will increase, eventually stabilising at a level predictable from the environmental conditions at the site. This model predicts that the sites most suited for hawkweed establishment would be invaded first and fill the quickest. These susceptible sites would then serve as foci, providing propagules for subsequent hawkweed spread into adjacent, less invasion prone areas. The model predicts that the initial increase in hawkweed cover at a site should be exponential, and that there should be a lag in hawkweed spread whereby less susceptible sites are invaded later or at a slower rate. Both predictions are supported by data from monitoring trials. The model can explain the lower abundance of hawkweeds, the less predictable distribution of hawkweeds in relation to environmental variables, and the significant spatial autocorrelation in hawkweed cover in Otago compared to Canterbury, if hawkweed invasion in Otago is less complete than in Canterbury.
24060715|Holdaway (1989) described three phases of historical extinctions and declines in New Zealand avifauna, the last of which (Group III, declining 17801986) was associated with European hunting, habitat clearance, and predation and competition from introduced European mammals. Some forest bird species have continued to decline since 1986, while others have increased, usually after intensive species-specific research and management programmes. In this paper, we review what is known about major causes of current declines or population limitation, including predation, competition for food or another resource, disease, forest loss, and genetic problems such as inbreeding depression and reduced genetic variation. Much experimental and circumstantial evidence suggests or demonstrates that predation by introduced mammals remains the primary cause of declines and limitation in remaining large native forest tracts. Predation alone is generally sufficient to explain the observed declines, but complex interactions between factors that vary between species and sites are likely to be the norm and are difficult to study. Currently, the rather limited evidence for food shortage is mostly circumstantial and may be obscured by interactions with predation. Climate and food supply determine the number of breeding attempts made by herbivorous species, but predation by introduced mammals ultimately determines the outcome of those attempts. After removal of pest mammals, populations are apparently limited by other factors, including habitat area, food supply, disease or avian predators. Management of these, and of inbreeding depression in bottlenecked populations, is likely to assist the effectiveness and resilience of management programmes. At the local or regional scale, however, forest area itself may be limiting in deforested parts of New Zealand. Without predator management, the number of native forest birds on the New Zealand mainland is predicted to continue to decline.
24052384|The balanomorph barnacle Megabalanus decorus (Darwin, 1854) (Balanidae) is recorded attached to a plastic fish tag taken from a trevally (Caranx georgianus) collected in the Bay of Plenty (37 53.2 S, 176 50 E), and attached to the spine of the posterior dorsal fin of a male dogfish (Squalus acanthias L.) trawled from off the Kaikoura Peninsula (42 25 S, 173 42 E), New Zealand. Despite its extensive geographical distribution from the Kermadec Islands (30 S, 178 30 E) to Macquarie Island (54 29 S, 158 58 E), and its usage of ships, sharks and other nektonic objects, M. decorus has not spread beyond the New Zealand region.
24054673|Previous studies have shown that indigenous beetle diversity reflects indigenous plant diversity in modified and remnant habitats. This study examines the indigenous: introduced relationship at a locality where degraded pasture has been progressively revegetated. Pitfall traps were used to collect beetles from three revegetated sites of different ages (5, 17 and 100 years) and in a coastal Muehlenbeckia habitat on Matiu-Somes Island (25 ha), Wellington Harbour, New Zealand. A total of 78 morphospecies were found over 12 months. The indigenous: introduced status of 74 species were determined; 67 were classified as 'indigenous', and 7 as 'introduced'. A positive trend was found between the proportion of ground-dwelling indigenous beetle species collected and the proportion of indigenous plant species present at a study site. As the revegetated site matured, the proportion of indigenous beetle species increased. We collected 20 (83%), 37 (88%) and 48 (92%) indigenous beetle species from the 5-year scrubland, 17-year shrubland and 100-year forest, respectively.
24060647|An understanding of the mechanisms influencing habitat selection in reintroduced bird populations is fundamental for successful translocation programmes. Plant species composition, abundance, structure and food availability are likely to influence animal movement and habitat choice, but few studies have evaluated their combined effect on habitat selection of translocated birds. Stewart Island robins (Petroica australis rakiura) and South Island saddlebacks (Philesturnus carunculatus carunculatus) are two threatened New Zealand bird species that have been reintroduced to Ulva Island (Stewart Island). We hypothesised that their initial settlement patterns were driven by habitat quality. We tested this hypothesis by comparing habitat components between occupied and unoccupied habitats as the population grew after initial tanslocation. We also modelled probabilities of site selection as a function of the composition and structure of vegetation, availability of food (invertebrate composition) and nesting resources (cavity type). Founding pairs of both species first established territories in coastal habitat in the western part of the island, which is characterised by structurally complex broadleaved vegetation. Birds also selected sites with a greater abundance and diversity of food resources. Thus in the early stages of population establishment robins and saddlebacks appear to select high quality habitat that offers enhanced cover and foraging opportunities.
24060631|Understanding the factors that influence patterns of ectoparasite infestation within wildlife populations involves knowledge of the mechanisms that influence host infestation. For ectoparasitic ticks, knowing where ticks might occur in the off-host environment and how they locate their hosts is essential to understanding patterns of ectoparasite infestation. The tuatara tick (Amblyomma sphenodonti) parasitises the tuatara (Sphenodon punctatus) on Stephens Island, New Zealand. We completed a series of laboratory microcosm experiments to examine daily activity patterns, microhabitat preferences and host-seeking behaviour by Amblyomma sphenodonti. Firstly, to determine the diel activity pattern of ticks, we observed the behaviour of ticks every 2 h over a 48-h period. We then tested the preferences of ticks for soil moisture, soil texture and shade by offering different pairs of substrate conditions. Last, to determine what cues ticks used to locate their hosts, we tested the response of ticks to filter paper infused with host scent or excrement. Ticks were most active at night. They also showed a significant preference for moister, coarser and shaded substrates 12 h after the start of the experiment. Ticks did not show an immediate response to either of the two host stimuli, but after 12 h showed a significant preference for host scent and avoided host excreta. We suggest that the microhabitat preferences of ticks reflect conditions within host refuges (burrows), and that the delayed response to host odour suggests ticks could use host scent to identify substrates frequented by hosts.
24060753|House mice (Mus musculus) were introduced to New Zealand accidentally in 1824 following the stranding of an Australian ship. Phylogeographic analyses have revealed many subsequent introductions from diverse sources. Mice have significant negative impacts on native ecosystems in New Zealand and elsewhere. This makes their eradication a desirable conservation outcome, yet a large proportion of mouse eradication attempts worldwide have failed for unknown reasons. We used a phylogeographic approach to identify mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) D-loop haplotypes of mice obtained from 12 previously unsampled island and mainland sites to expand the previous sampling range for investigation of mouse genetics in New Zealand, and to test the hypothesis that eradication failure is linked to either mouse subspecies or source population as indicated by D-loop haplotype. We predicted that populations that had survived an eradication attempt would be of a different mouse subspecies or D-loop haplotype from those where eradication had succeeded. In addition, mouse populations at failed eradication sites may have a common D-loop haplotype, indicating a shared source population that may be more resistant to eradication attempts. Twenty-fice complete mtDNA D-loop sequences were generated, describing six haplotypes including two D-loop haplotypes that had not previously been recorded in New Zealand linking New Zealand mice to populations in Portugal and Iran. A Portuguese haplotype was also recorded for the two geographic outgroup specimens sourced from Reunion Island, Indian Ocean; the first recorded mouse D-loop haplotype from that location. Mice sampled from six New Zealand populations where eradication outcome was known all possessed domesticus D-loop haplotypes. Mice in four of these six populations (three successful eradications and one failure) possessed the same D-loop haplotype (domNZ.04) making it difficult to infer a link between D-loop haplotype and mouse eradication success. Further sampling in New Zealand may uncover additional haplotypes linking New Zealand mice to other areas.
24060723|We highlight three areas of significant progress in ecology since 1989 which are particularly relevant to New Zealand, and three major challenges for the next two decades. Progress: (1) The unusual life histories of New Zealand organisms, including extreme longevity and low reproductive rates, are now seen as efficient responses to the low-disturbance environment present before the arrival of large mammals, including humans. (2) Recent data show that long distance dispersal has been far more common than previously supposed, changing our image of New Zealand from a Gondwanan ark to the "flypaper of the Pacific". (3) Greatly improved techniques for pest control, and innovative species management, have stabilised numbers of many of the most charismatic of New Zealand's threatened species. Problems: (1) Native species continue to decline, including many previously thought to be stable, and improved phylogenetics and new discoveries have added threatened species. (2) Despite increased emphasis on biosecurity, biological invasions are continuing, driven by increased trade and lags in naturalisation. (3) Conservation efforts risk being overwhelmed by the direct effects of increasing human population, resource use, invasions, and global climate change at a time when human food supplies and economies are coming under increasing pressure from environmental constraints. Conclusions: (1) We need improved ecological understanding and more management tools for invasive and threatened species, especially for species other than birds. (2) In these decades of rapid climate change and habitat conversion, there is an urgent need for more widespread and sustainable integration of native species into New Zealand's rural and urban lowland landscapes.
24053569|Incubation temperatures of the great spotted kiwi were studied by telemetry methods at the Otorohanga Zoological Society in October 1989. The male maintained the core temperature of the egg at about 28-31.8C. When he emerged to feed at night, the female started to incubate. She did not have a brood patch, but could heat the egg to 28-28.5C, sufficient for embryo growth. Some of the reasons why female great spotted kiwi might help with incubation are discussed. In cold, mountain environments, the energetic costs of incubation could be so high that males alone cannot meet them. The hypothesis predicts that there are also places in the North Island where female brown kiwi (Apteryx australis mantelli) should share in incubation.
24053248|Evidence is put forward suggesting that at least some species of moa (Aves: Dinornithidae) used regular tracks, and that these tracks are still visible in various parts of New Zealand. Tracks at Poukawa, Hawke's Bay, are illustrated. Studies of the tracks may provide further information on the distribution and habitat preference of moas.
24053654|Functional convergence of different communities in similar environments would be expected as an outcome of the operation of 'assembly rules'. At an ecological level, competitive exclusion would restrict the co-occurrence of species with similar niches. Repetition of competitive sorting on an evolutionary time scale might lead to character displacement. Either process would ultimately lead to species niches being more regularly arranged in ecological factor space than expected on a random basis, with the consequence that the niche structure of different communities in similar environments would converge. We assessed the applicability of this model of community structure by comparing vegetation between study sites spaced in altitude 20 m apart along a continuous gradient in South Westland low-altitude conifer/broad-leaved forest, with respect to seven variates of vegetation texture primarily concerning the morphology of the photosynthetic unit (PSU). We employed a null model that assigns observed species to sites at random, as would be expected in the absence of assembly rules for the communities, comparing observed variation in texture to variation under the null model to look for convergence or divergence and to determine statistical significance. Significant convergence between adjacent sites was found in all variates when species weighted either by percentage cover or cover rank were used to calculate site texture means, but convergence was less pronounced among groups of five or 10 consecutive sites. Significant divergence occurred at the five-site level (three variates) using cover rank as a weighting factor and at the two-, five- and 10-site levels (five variates) when no weighting factor was used. Overall, divergence was more pronounced among sets of sites spanning a wider range in altitude, which seemed consistent with the presence of an environmental gradient along the transect, although a DCA ordination of site floristics failed to reveal a simple altitudinal trend. This study is the first to seek community-level convergence within a local area and the first to find statistically significant convergence between vegetation patches.
24060698|Reliable information about population density and trends is essential for making valid inferences regarding conservation management. The suitability of point counts using distance sampling was examined as a means of monitoring a population of kaka (Nestor meridionalis septentrionalis), a large forest-dwelling parrot, inhabiting the Waipapa Ecological Area in the central North Island of New Zealand. Counts were conducted on 13 occasions between 2000 and 2007. The sampling design was tailored to maximise the detectability of kaka and to minimise violations of the four most important assumptions of distance sampling. Location errors and subsequent distance estimation errors were most likely to bias density estimates despite our attempts to minimise failures of this assumption. Densities estimated from counts conducted in October were similar between 2000 and 2007 (approximately 0.5 kaka ha1) with no evidence of either a positive or negative trend. Densities derived from counts in February or March were more erratic and seemed to reflect variation in the frequency and success of the preceding breeding season. Given the frequency of kaka breeding, the pest control regime during the study period, and our attempts to minimise violations of distance sampling assumptions, we are confident that the reported trends in density are realistic. Although distance sampling was found to give reliable density estimates of kaka at Waipapa, this may not be the case at other sites, particularly where kaka density is low, location error is high, forest structure or topography are more complex, or surveys of kaka are made part of more extensive multi-species surveys.
24054668|We measured horse density, social structure, habitat use, home ranges and altitudinal micro-climates in the south-western Kaimanawa ranges east of Waiouru, New Zealand. Horse density in the Auahitotara ecological sector averaged 3.6 horses.km2 and ranged from 0.9 to 5.2 horses.km2 within different zones. The population's social structure was like that of other feral horse populations with an even adult sex ratio, year round breeding groups (bands) with stable adult membership consisting of 1 to 11 mares, 1 to 4 stallions, and their predispersal offspring, and bachelor groups with unstable membership. Bands and bachelor males were loyal to undefended home ranges with central core use areas. Band home range sizes varied positively with adult band size. Home ranges overlapped entirely with other home ranges. Horses were more likely to occupy north facing aspects, short tussock vegetation and flush zones and avoid high altitudes, southern aspects, steeper slopes, bare ground and forest remnants. Horses were more likely to be on north facing aspects, steeper slopes, in exotic and red tussock grasslands and flush zones during winter and at lower altitudes and on gentler slopes in spring and summer. Seasonal shifts by bands to river basin and stream valley floors in spring and higher altitudes in autumn and winter are attributed to the beginning of foaling and mating in spring and formation of frost inversion layers in winter. Given horse habitat selectivity and the presence of other ungulate herbivores, results from present exclosures are likely to exaggerate the size of horse impacts on range vegetation. Proposals to manage the population by relocation and confinement are likely to modify current social structure and range use behaviour and may lead to the need for more intensive management in the longer term.
24052382|New Zealand does not possess native social bees and many of the advanced insects which pollinate plants in other areas of the world. The flowers of most New Zealand plants are visited by a wide range of unspecialised insect species. These assemblages of flower-visiting insects on New Zealand montane and alpine plants are highly variable. Six factors which affect the relative frequency of different flower visitors on a plant species at a particular time are examined: weather, habitat, diel variation, plant mating type, animal competition, and sexual behaviour of the pollinators. Knowledge of these factors allows the dynamic nature of New Zealand pollinator assemblages to be investigated. The unspecialised floral syndromes possessed by most New Zealand plants are viewed as an adaptation to highly variable pollinator assemblages: flowers are visited by whatever pollinators are immediately available.
24053585|Changes in density and breeding of the house mouse (Mus musculus) in a New Zealand forest dominated by hard beech (Nothofagus truncata) were monitored for 2.5 years. Mice bred during winter and increased dramatically in density only during a beech mast year. Mice readily ate the endosperm and embryo of hard beech seed in the laboratory and chemical analysis showed it to be a very nutritious food source, similar in quality to Fagus beech seed in the northern hemisphere. Thus the mouse, introduced to New Zealand, responds to a Nothofagus mast year in a similar way to other rodent species in the northern hemisphere during a Fagus mast year.
24060878|Conservation strategy for maintaining and protecting tuatara (Sphenodon punctatus), a rare endemic reptile from New Zealand, includes the reinstatement of populations through the past historical range. A proposal exists to translocate tuatara from Stephens Islands in Cook Strait to the Orokonui Ecosanctuary (Te Korowai o Mihiwaka), a coastal site in southern New Zealand. The proposed site is within the former latitudinal range of the genus, but lies outside the current distribution of tuatara, where the climate is warmer. In this study, we examined whether cool incubation temperature is a limiting factor for the proposed reintroduction of tuatara to Orokonui. The tuatara is a species with temperature-dependent sex determination, with only females being produced at low incubation temperatures. Thus, cool southern temperatures may produce only females, even if incubation temperatures are high enough to support successful development. We experimentally translocated tuatara eggs to the ecosanctuary and found that nest temperatures were consistently below those of nests in their current natural distribution and would produce only female hatchlings if successful incubation occurred. An addition of sand to soil did not raise temperatures sufficiently to produce both sexes. However, additional assessments of soil temperatures in a third year indicated that some new sites were warm enough for males to be produced. Given that other aspects of site suitability appear favourable, and that global temperatures are predicted to rise in the near future, which should produce a more viable incubation environment, translocation of this long-lived reptile to the southern ecosanctuary is worth further exploration. However, monitoring of female nesting behaviour, including nest locations, depths and resulting temperatures, will be essential. Our study demonstrates an experimental approach for assessing site suitability for translocation that may be relevant to other egg-laying reptiles.
24054527|Feral goats (Capra hircus) were studied in the Mahoenui giant weta reserve, southern King Country, New Zealand, from March 1992 to February 1993. The reserve supports the main population of the undescribed Mahoenui giant weta (Deinacrida sp.). Gorse (Ulex europaeus) is the dominant woody browse plant in the reserve and provides protection, shelter and food for weta. The activities, foraging behaviour and diet of feral goats within the reserve were measured by direct observation and analysis of rumen contents. Measures of nutrient levels indicate that gorse is adequate for goat growth only during late spring/summer, and becomes a maintenance food at other times of the year. Feeding (grazing and browsing) was the dominant activity of adult feral goats in the reserve. Females spent more time feeding than males. Grazing and browsing changed seasonally for both sexes, with grazing generally decreasing from autumn to summer, and browsing increasing from summer to spring. In every season females spent more time grazing than males, but males browsed more than females. Greater use of browse by males may be an effect of the presence of females. Browsing of gorse by goats may not be an important influence on weta survival.
24052644|The distribution of native grassland types is related to moisture and temperature gradients. Past trends in distribution likely to continue are the advance into the forest zone, the retreat from higher altitudes and further extensive modification by grazing agriculture. Whether these changes are "good" or "bad" is a human viewpoint. Current social issues influencing native grasslands are considered. In particular the conservation movement is seen as a transient phenomenon.
24054438|A 55 ha remnant of coastal native forest at Wenderholm Regional Park (near Auckland) was selected as the site for a pilot experiment to test if rat control could yield measurable benefits in increased productivity of New Zealand pigeons. Talon 50WB poison baits were used to reduce rat numbers over the summer of 1992-93. Pigeon breeding success was significantly higher (5 fledglings from 11 nests) than in preceding summers without rat control (no fledglings from 27 nests).
24052818|The diet and food preferences of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) on north-eastern Stewart Island are described from the analysis of 160 samples of rumen contents collected between 1979 and 1985, and vegetation surveys in 1975 and 1976. Deer browsed all the hardwood trees, but few shrubs, ferns, or podocarps. Woody plants comprised 85.1% (dry weight) of annual diet. Broadleaf (Griselinia littoralis; 34.6%) and supplejack (Ripogonum scandens; 18.6%) were the most important foods, all other species comprising less than 5%. There were no differences in diet between the sexes and only small differences between areas. Fawns, however, ate more supplejack fruit and less shrubs, ferns, herbs, and grasses than older deer. All deer ate more supplejack fruit and foliage of subcanopy trees, and less broadleaf, shrubs, and ferns in winter than in other seasons. Food appeared scarcest in summer. Deer probably obtained most of their food as fallen leaves and fruit; this is discussed in the context of the long term trends in forest structure and deer carrying capacity that follow deer colonisation. We believe the main hardwood food trees will gradually die out, resulting in a substantial decline in the carrying capacity of the forest.
24056283|Comparisons were made of density indices of free-living populations of ship rats (Rattus rattus) in mixed forest in New Zealand by using footprint tracking tunnels and two kill-trapping methods. Tracking tunnels and snap-trap removal indices of rat densities showed similar trends when run on a 9 ha trapping grid, although immigration onto the grid occurred, thus violating one of the assumptions of the analysis. Tracking rates and snap-trap capture rates were not significantly correlated when run along a trapping line for a 12 month period, although tracking rates and the total number of rats caught in a trapping session were significantly correlated. Time series analysis showed that rat density indices from tracking tunnels and Fenn traps were significantly correlated when run for 27 consecutive months in a rat population with moderate density, but were not correlated in a low density rat population. The findings highlight the importance of habitat, sample size and target species behaviour in influencing relative density indices obtained from tracking tunnels, snap-traps and Fenn traps. Given the widespread use of rodent tracking tunnels in New Zealand, we suggest that tracking tunnels should only be used to compare relative abundance within similar habitat types, and should always be complemented with a second density index. The relationship between the commonly used density indices and true rodent population density requires urgent attention.
24053256|During the Late Holocene (1800 years BP to the present day) there have been three depositional episodes in coastal sand dune areas: Tamatean (1800 to 450 years BP), Ohuan (450 to 150 years BP) and Hoatan (150 years BP to the present day). Each episode comprised two phases: an unstable phase with a high rate of deposition, followed by a stable phase with a low rate of deposition and soil formation. For the last 1000 years sand dune areas have been favoured places for human settlement. Despite a growing population, unstable dunes have twice become stable. Soils formed on them at the same times as on river alluvium. During that 1000 years, three quarters of the forest cover was progressively cleared by burning, but there was no apparent correlation with increased instability in sand dune areas. The depositional episodes are therefore considered to be independent of human influence. Their principal cause appears to be climatic, with unstable phases being windy and dry and stable phases less windy and moist.
24060777|Litterfall reflects forest productivity and is an important pathway of nutrient cycling in forests. We quantified litter quantity, nutrient concentrations, and decomposability for 22 permanently marked plots that included gradients of altitude (a range of 320780 m), soil nutrients and past disturbance in a cool temperate evergreen montane rain forest in the western South Island of New Zealand. For each plot we quantified total fine litterfall and sorted it into components over a 2-year period, and for each of four widespread tree species in each plot (when present) we measured litter nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) concentrations, litter decomposability, and the release of litter N and P during decomposition. Total fine litterfall (mean 2.96 Mg ha1 year1) was low compared with other similar montane forests in New Zealand and elsewhere, and it declined with altitude and increasing successional stage of the plots. However, litterfall of four widespread tree species was unrelated to successional stage and that of only one was related to altitude. Further, neither total fine litterfall nor that of these four species was related to soil N or P concentrations with one exception. For the four species we found substantial variation among plots in litter N and P concentrations (up to 16-fold for N, 57-fold for P), litter decomposability, and the release of N and P during decomposition. Despite this, these variables were only rarely correlated with altitude, successional status, or soil nutrient concentrations across plots. Our results suggest that within-species variability in litterfall, nutrient concentrations, and decomposability are likely to be substantial in systems that have a high level of spatial variability because of recurrent large disturbances, and this has potentially important implications for the cycling of carbon, N and P, at the landscape scale.
24052766|The 'regrassing' trials established by L. Cockayne in 1920 on Northburn Station, near Cromwell, Central Otago, were last described by Douglas (1970) from observations made in 1967. In this paper, the early results are briefly reviewed and discussed in comparison to a 1984/85 assessment of the plots. This assessment includes quantitative data on the composition and spread of both pasture species and tree species inside and outside each trial area, thus establishing a base for future appraisals of Cockayne's plots. The ability of several plant species to survive and spread from the plots, despite the semi-arid climate and soils of low fertility, is noted in relation to possible low-cost development in depleted tussock grasslands. The spread of conifers from the Cockayne plots is viewed with concern.
24052611|Food habits of the tuatara (Sphenodon punctatus) on Stephens Island, in north-western Cook Strait, were studied by field observations and faecal analysis. The tuatara is a selective predator, feeding on a wide range of small animals, mainly large insects. Its diet shows seasonal changes and habitat differences, related to local conditions: the coastal broadleaf forest habitat, which predominated in pre-European times but is now only represented by remnants, seems to be most favourable. The tuatara population, although large, seems to be no threat to the survival of any of its prey species.
24053176|Seven feral pigs (Sus scrofa), radio-tracked in relatively undisturbed rough pasture and forest near Murchison, New Zealand, for periods of 18-186 days, occupied home ranges of 28-209 ha. The immature pigs were significantly more active and had significantly larger home ranges than the adults, particularly adult females. The pigs were mainly nocturnal but they varied individually. The frequency of grazing and the rooting up of pasture and bracken (Pteridium esculentum) varied seasonally. Some of the pigs preferred pasture and bracken in their home ranges while others preferred mixed beech (Nothofagus spp.) forest. The number of pigs and their use of habitat were probably related to the seasonal availability and quality of food and shelter. Farrowing occurs throughout the year but peaks during spring. Litter sizes ranged from 1-9. Density was roughly 12-43 pigs per km2 compared with 3-8 per km2 in a nearby, more heavily hunted area.
24052003|The Paringa district is almost completely forested below timberline, with conifer/hardwood forests prevailing in the northeast, and silver beech widely dominant in the southwest, especially at the higher altitudes. In a transitional zone, silver beech grows as scattered stands, isolated by distances up to 6 km. During heavy glaciation of the mountainous part of the district, silver beech may have survived near the present coast and beyond it on land exposed by a lowered sea level. Post-glacial spread from such refugia to the most inland valley heads would require a spreading rate averaging at least 700 m/century, and it is suggested that this was achieved by dispersal of seed on to freshly exposed mineral soils, where beech seedlings apparently can grow independently of mycorrhizal infection. From the nuclei thereby established there was, and still is, gradual invasion of surrounding vegetation. The post-glacial pollen record and the present distribution of silver beech both indicate a pattern of northeasterly spread.
24058149|Heteroblastic plants produce markedly different leaf morphologies between juvenile and adult stages, while homoblastic plants exhibit little or gradual changes. We tested the hypothesis that the leaf morphology of the seedling stage of New Zealand heteroblastic species is advantageous in dealing with low light levels found in forest understorey. We used four independent contrasts of heteroblastic and homoblastic seedlings from the genera Aristotelia, Hoheria, Pseudopanax, and Melicope grown in full-sun (100% sunlight) and shade (5% sunlight) light environments in a glasshouse. The four heteroblastic species had consistently smaller leaves and lower specific leaf area than their paired homoblastic species both in sun and shade. In the shade, there were no consistent differences in leaf anatomy (thickness of leaf blade, cuticle, epidermis, and palisade mesophyll, and stomatal density  stomatal aperture length) or physiology (maximum photosynthetic rate, dark respiration, and light compensation point) between homoblastic and heteroblastic species. However, in the sun, heteroblastic A. fruticosa, P. crassifolius, and M. simplex had appreciably thicker leafblades as well as higher maximum photosynthetic rates than their homoblastic congeners. These traits suggest heteroblastic seedlings possess leaf traits associated with an advantage in high-light environments. We conclude that the heteroblastic seedling leaf morphology is unlikely to be an adaptation to very low light. Alternative explanations for the functional significance of changing leaf morphology in association with life-stage should be sought.
24054514|We describe the use of harmonic radar in the field with simple, inexpensive tags with extended lifespan. The effects of aerial size and shape, and the detection range of several types of diodes under different conditions are described. Examples are provided of tracking short-term movement of a ground beetle, Plocamosthetus planiusculus, and long-term movement of a snail, Paryphanta busbyi watti. The potential and limitations of the method are discussed.
24058188|Assessments of the effects of invertebrate herbivores on high-altitude plants have seldom taken into account both mutualistic and antagonistic interactions. To evaluate the effect of herbivores (antagonists) and pollinators (mutualists) on the female reproductive success of the high-Andean perennial herb Alstroemeria umbellata, we separately and simultaneously excluded aphids (herbivores), and bees and bumblebees (pollinators) in a 22 factorial design. In flowers with pollinators excluded, aphids did not reduce seed set per flower (i.e., a direct effect). However, in flowers exposed to pollinators, aphids reduced seed set by 1.7 times (i.e., a pollinator-mediated indirect effect). Likewise, both types of animals exerted non-additive effects on maternal fecundity. These results suggest a modulating role for herbivores on the selection pressures exerted by pollinators on A. umbellata.
24052731|Vegetation succession on Mt Tarawera, Rotorua, New Zealand, a recently erupted volcano, was studied. Field data from 70 plots were collected and analysed by a clustering algorithm. The plots formed an altitudinal and successional series which included bare scoria, herbfield, mixed hardwood, scrub, kamahi forest and tawa forest. Because of the differential effects of the 1886 eruption, different successional trends are being followed on the north-west and south-east faces of the mountain.
24060720|This paper briefly reviews advances in knowledge of the non-lichenised fungi of New Zealand over the past 25 years. Since 1980, the number of species recorded from New Zealand has doubled, and molecular techniques have revolutionised studies on fungal phylogeny and our understanding of fungal distribution, biology and origins. The origins of New Zealand's fungi are diverse; a few appear to be ancient, whereas many have arrived in geologically more recent times following trans-oceanic dispersal. Some of these more recent arrivals have evolved subsequently to form local endemic species, while others may be part of larger populations maintained through regular, trans-oceanic gene flow. Although questions remain about which fungi truly are indigenous and which are exotic, about one-third of the fungi recorded from New Zealand are likely to have been introduced since human settlement. While most exotic species are confined to human-modified habitats, there are some exceptions. These include species with potential to have significant impacts at the landscape scale. Examples from saprobic, pathogenic, endophytic and ectomycorrhizal fungi are used to discuss the factors driving the distribution and dispersal of New Zealand's fungi at both global and local scales, the impact that historical changes to New Zealand's vascular plant and animal biota have had on indigenous fungi, and the broader ecological impact of some of the exotic fungal species that have become naturalised in native habitats. The kinds of fungi present in New Zealand, and the factors driving the distribution and behaviour of those fungi, are constantly changing. These changes have occurred over a wide scale, in both time and space, which means New Zealand's indigenous fungi evolved in response to ecological pressures very different from those found in New Zealand today.
24060663|Detecting the presence of invasive mammalian pests is expensive, particularly where multiple species of interest are sympatric, yet is key to determining when, where and how much control to do, and the effectiveness of that control. Here we describe the efficacy of a simple new and cheap device, the chew-track-card (CTC), both as a potential tool for simultaneously indexing the relative abundance of sympatric small-mammal pests, and for cheaply and comprehensively mapping the distribution of these pests over large, remote areas. The CTC is an interference device that can record both tooth impressions and the footprints of animals interacting with it. Several studies comparing CTC indices (CTCIs) with established indices of possums and rodents are reported. Possum CTCIs were positively and significantly correlated with established trap-catch indices (TCI), WaxTag and faecal pellet indices of possum abundance. The relationship between possum CTCI and TCI in seven study sites was always positive and, with adequate sampling, statistically significant, but was also variable, probably due to monitoring protocols differing between trials. Rat CTCIs were also positively correlated to tracking tunnel indices, but these two indices were unrelated for mice. Standard leg-hold trapping cost 2946 times more per possum detection than for CTCs during a large-scale survey of the Hauhungaroa Range. CTCs are a sensitive and cost-effective means of detecting the presence of small mammalian pests, especially possums and rodents. They also potentially provide a robust tool for indexing low density populations of such pests, particularly possums and rats, although further calibration of CTC indices of pest abundance with standard indices is required. Also, the consequences of interaction between abundant pests, particularly rats, on CTC detection rates, and means to reduce these interactions, need further investigation.
24053311|The improvement of New Zealands pastures over the last 150 years has increased the nutrient status of the soil as a result of the application of fertiliser, an increased soil organic matter content and increased biological activity. The grazing animal has also influenced the nutrient status of the soil by increasing the rate at which nutrients cycle between the soil, plants and animals. However, the grazing animals also cause losses of nutrients from the soil through concentrating nutrients into small volumes of soil under dung and urine patches, redistributing nutrients around the farm and removal of nutrients in the form of animal products. If these losses are not replaced by fertiliser applications then reductions will occur in both the amount of nutrients in the soil and in pasture production. Research directed toward maximising the cycling of nutrients originating from animal excreta is required in order to develop strategies to minimise fertiliser inputs.
24054654|Kawakawa (Macropiper excelsum) is an understorey, forest tree which sustains conspicuous and substantial herbivory from the larvae of a geometrid moth, Cleora scriptaria. This study examined the relationship between leaf abscission and the amount of damage a leaf had sustained. In the field, kawakawa trees showed no increase in the rate of leaf shedding in response to experimental damage by C. scriptaria larvae or to artificial damage produced by a hole punch, even when 90% of the leaf area was removed. The tree did not compensate for a loss in leaf area by increasing the chlorophyll content of damaged leaves. Although herbivore damage is conspicuous and appears detrimental, the tree's leaf phenology does not appear to be affected. It is concluded that this plant species has evolved to tolerate frequent and severe feeding damage to its leaves.
24060820|Forest dynamics in New Zealand are shaped by catastrophic, landscape-level disturbances (e.g. volcanic eruptions, windstorms and fires). The long return-intervals of these disturbances, combined with the longevity of many of New Zealand's tree species, restrict empirical investigations of forest dynamics. In combination with empirical data (e.g. palaeoecological reconstructions), simulation modelling provides a way to address these limitations and to unravel complex ecological interactions. Here we adapt the forest landscape model LandClim to simulate dynamics across the large spatio-temporal scales relevant for New Zealand's forests. Using the western slope of Mt Hauhungatahi in the central North Island as a case study, we examine forest succession following the Taupo eruption (c. 1700 cal. years BP), and the subsequent emergence of elevational species zonation. Focusing on maximum growth rate and shade tolerance we used a pattern-oriented parameterisation approach to derive a set of life-history parameters that agree with those described in the ecological literature. With this parameter set, LandClim was able to reproduce similar spatio-temporal patterns in vegetation structure to those seen in pollen reconstructions and contemporary vegetation studies. The modelled successional sequence displayed a major shift in forest composition between simulation years 400 to 700, when the dense initial stands of conifers (dominated mainly by Libocedrus bidwillii) were progressively replaced by the angiosperm Weinmannia racemosa in the montane forest. From around year 1000, the contemporary elevational species zonation was attained. Competition for light controlled the major successional trends and, together with temperature-limitation, explained the observed elevational species zonation. Although originally designed for European temperate forests, LandClim can simulate New Zealand landscape dynamics and forest response to catastrophic disturbances such as the Taupo eruption. We suggest that LandClim provides a suitable framework for investigating the role of spatial processes, in particular disturbance, in New Zealand's forest landscapes.
24054430|Percentage non-toxic bait interference is currently used by local authorities to monitor brushtail possum control operations but the validity of the method has not been established. Two models have been proposed to estimate an index of possum density (possums per bait) from a log-transformation of percentage bait interference. In two trials, percentage bait interference and the density index derived from percentage bait interference using the Bamford (1970) model usually increased from night to night. Variation in the number of possums per bait was reduced by dividing the Bamford index by the number of nights baits were put out, as proposed by Jane (1981). The spatial distribution of bait interference along lines of bait stations was random for the first night and usually for at least 5 nights. Rhodomine dye and cyanide poison, alternated at bait stations after at least 5 nights non-toxic baiting, showed that about 83% of possums in one trial and 29% of possums in the other trial interfered with more than one bait on the same night. Increasing the spacing between bait stations reduced the proportion of possums interfering with more than one bait. The number of possums per line killed by cyanide baits after at least 5 nights of non-toxic baiting was strongly correlated with percentage bait interference, with and without logarithmic transformation, on the first night. The possums' apparent ability to remember the location of bait stations from one night to the next means that, in the absence of better advice, the original Bamford (1970) model should be modified as proposed by Jane (1981) to estimate possum density and change in possum density (e.g., from pre- to post-poison).
24056162|Early models of directly transmitted wildlife disease focused on rabies transmission as a travelling wave, usually in a homogeneous density of wildlife. Such models of epi-enzootic diseases paid little attention to local-scale disease prevalence. Historical data on bovine tuberculosis (Tb) in cattle indicates that very localised areas can suffer from frequent repeat breakdowns, indicating that some environmental factors might be the cause. There are a number of different ways to simulate such local disease 'hotspots' in wildlife, and these resultant hotspots may mean that, overall, wildlife disease prevalence is very low. However, spatial and temporal persistence of this hotspot is more difficult to model. This heterogeneity in disease prevalence is difficult to produce in non-spatial models, and is one of the reasons why such models gave poor predictions of disease dynamics in the field. For example, Nigel Barlow struggled with finding a way to produce this spatial heterogeneity in mathematical models, culminating in his 2000 paper in Journal of Animal Ecology. This gave a phenomenological treatment, but not a causative solution. I take a look at the various causative methods of producing disease heterogeneity in simulation models of Tb, a chronic wildlife disease. These include (1) chance, (2) model artefacts, (3) population (e.g. demographic, genetic) heterogeneity and (4) environmental heterogeneity. I further argue that only (4) can be predicted over a medium timescale, and propose methods to assess the contribution of (1) and (2) in a model. I also discuss how spatial heterogeneity may affect Tb management.
24060757|In a biodiversity conservation exercise a native raptor has been reintroduced to Marlborough, a wine-growing area in New Zealand's South Island, on the assumption that the abundant passerines attracted to the grapes will provide a natural food resource for this predator. As part of a study to assess the value of vineyards as habitat for the threatened New Zealand falcon (Falco novaeseelandiae) we used remote videography and prey remains to compare the diet composition of falcons nesting in a vineyard-dominated landscape with that of falcons nesting in natural habitat in nearby hills. We also quantified the abundance and species composition of avian prey in the habitats surrounding each falcon nest. Generally there were more birds in the vineyards but the composition of available prey did not differ between vineyards and the nearby hills, nor did the composition of avian species in the breeding-season diet of falcons. Avian prey was the main food source for falcons during the breeding season, representing 97.9% of prey items by frequency and 83.3% of prey items by biomass. Mammals represented only 1.9% of prey items by frequency, but made up 16.7% of prey items by biomass. We also found that falcons preyed on introduced species more than would be expected, and on endemic species less than would be expected, based on their availability in the landscape. The absence of any significant differences in diet between native and vineyard habitats during the breeding season suggests that the latter may be a suitable alternative when natural habitats are unavailable, although further study must be conducted into the role of supplementary feeding on these effects. These findings pave the way for research in other production landscapes that could be used for conservation measures.
24058160|Wild ginger (Hedychium gardnerianum) is a tall rhizomatous herb that invades forests and shrubland fragments in northern New Zealand. In order to determine the impacts of this invasive weed on forest processes, comparisons of conifer-broadleaved forest patches with different densities of ginger were made at Opononi and Whangarei in Northland. Soil properties, vegetation structure, floristics, and seed rain were recorded. Annual litterfall biomass and chemical composition were measured. There were no significant differences between soils under forest with sparse (< 5% cover) and dense (> 50% cover) ginger. A sparse subcanopy layer and fewer saplings were common factors in ginger plots. Forest canopy litterfall (c. 6.8 t ha1 yr1) and total N (45.1-56.2 kg ha1 yr1) were similar in plots with sparse or dense ginger. Species richness of adult trees and seedfall richness varied little. In contrast, seedling density and richness were lower in dense ginger stands and seedling composition was dominated by species with large (> 200 mg) seeds, i.e. Corynocarpus laevigatus, Dysoxylum spectabile and Rhopalostylis sapida. These seedlings may produce a different forest canopy from that currently found in areas where ginger is sparse.
24054526|Soil conditions, vegetation features and soil fauna were recorded in montane tall tussock grassland dominated by narrow-leaved snow tussock Chionochloa rigida ssp. rigida up to 30 months after a spring fire. Burning reduced the stature of tussocks and the size and density of tillers in the first growing season. After two growing seasons, tussock canopy development and tiller size remained below those found in the unburnt grassland nearby. New tillers and tussocks established following the prolific fire-induced flowering one year after burning. After the fire and sheep grazing, intertussock cover became progressively dominated by introduced grasses and herbs. While soil pH, moisture content, bulk density, surface litter and total nematodes showed significant treatment (burning) effects, these properties also showed significant year-to-year variation. The greatest increase in any nematode group was in Paratylenchus, a distinctive genus widespread in tussock grasslands and apparently responsive to environmental fluctuation and root development; its population was 100 and 29 greater in the burned area than in the control area 16 and 30 months after burning. Subject to detailed testing, populations of mites and collembola may provide relatively simple indicators of recovery of ecosystem function of such grasslands after burning.
24054692|To assess the effect of possum browse on plant growth, an index of the amount of foliage on about 50 trees of Fuchsia excorticata and the number of trees that died or were completely defoliated was measured at five sites in South Westland over 5 years. This index was compared to possum density indices taken at each site each year. At one site, possums were reduced from a high density about 6 months before the final measurement. The degree of defoliation of fuchsia was significantly related to the density of possums at each site. Possums defoliate and kill fuchsia within two years once the catch-rate index of their density exceeds about 25%. However, this impact can be halted and quickly reversed by reducing possum density.
24052012|The paper summarizes information on the identity of plant fragments from 14 moa gizzard contents samples and outlines some features of moa diet, feeding habits and habitat which may be inferred from the investigation of these samples. Most of the moa specimens (possibly all of them) were from the genus Dinornis. Twigs of shrubs and trees, which were sheared off, formed the predominant part of the diet of the birds just before their death, but seeds, fruits, and leaves were also present. These moas were browsing animals living at the margins of forest and mires, though they must have traversed some open ground and probably also penetrated the forest.
24054777|We monitored 16 radio-tagged moreporks (Ninox novaeseelandiae) on Mokoia Island after a brodifacoum poison drop to eradicate mice (Mus musculus), normally included in the owls' diet. All 16 moreporks were alive after 13 days. One bird was found dead on day 22, and corpses of two radio-tagged birds were located on day 51. The bird found on day 22 contained 0.97 mg kg1 of brodifacoum in its liver. The other two carcasses were not analysed, but they probably died as a result of brodifacoum poisoning. Thus, three out of 14 birds died (21% mortality). A further eight banded and six non-banded birds were also monitored. Of these, 50% were not seen following the drop. Secondary poisoning is implicated in the disappearance of these birds. Sublethal effects such as lowered breeding success and stress may have affected morepork over a prolonged period following the poisoning operation. Further studies are needed to investigate the exact pathway of this poison, especially the potential for invertebrates to carry poison.
24055315|Incubation behaviour varies among the different taxa of kiwi. For North Island brown kiwi (Apteryx mantelli) and little spotted kiwi (A. owenii), only the male incubates the eggs, except for in the first week. Meanwhile, for Okarito brown kiwi (A. mantelli) and the tokoeka (A. australis), incubation is shared by both sexes. In addition, amongst southern tokoeka, family group members can assist with incubation to the extent that breeding males may take no part in incubation at all. This study shows that kiwi turn their eggs regularly, an observation that contradicts earlier findings. There is a mean incubation temperature of 36.5C at the top of the egg but the bottom may be 10C lower in North Island brown kiwi and 5-8C lower in Okarito brown kiwi eggs. Experiments inducing water loss from fertile and infertile eggs show that the presence of an embryo does not influence rate of water loss. North Island brown kiwi, Okarito brown kiwi and tokoeka regularly have more than one clutch in a season, and some North Island brown kiwi females lay up to seven eggs each year.
24056435|This study investigated how predation risk in North Island brown kiwi changes as the birds grow and develop. Over a 10-year period, 53 adult and 126 young kiwi were radio-tagged at Lake Waikaremoana and studied to determine survival rates, causes of death, and rates of growth. Predation loss amongst adults was low (2.49% year1) and caused mainly by ferrets. Young kiwi suffered intense predation from stoats during their first four months of life, but thereafter became too large (> 800 g) for stoats to kill. Juveniles took at least 880 days to attain adult size, about four times longer than expected for a 23 kg bird. Growth rates peaked at about the point of hatch, rather than later on in development as in other birds. We suggest that a long evolutionary history dominated by resource limitation rather than predation may account for slow rates of development in kiwi, and that differences among kiwi species in their ability to persist in the presence of stoats are explained by differences in the time that they take to reach safe-size.
24053249|Large and medium-sized moa were trapped in soft calcareous sediments in Pyramid Valley mire at various times within the last 4 millennia. Before about 1800 yr B.P. any trapped birds must either have been wading in a shallow lake, or walking on its dry bed, just before being mired. Later, some birds were probably trapped while traversing a Carex secta  Phormium tenax swamp. Gizzard contents include large quantities of twigs of shrub and tree species which, characteristically, do not occur on mires and could not have been reached by trapped birds. The moa must have browsed within forest and along its margins before venturing onto the mire.
24054459|A plant sociological survey of tall-tussock grasslands in the Mackenzie country was repeated after an interval of 26-28 years. Changes in physiognomy of the grasslands which have been inferred from earlier studies have been found to be continuing on many sites. A noteworthy feature of most sites has been a reduction in number of indigenous species found. An increase in abundance of Hieracium pilosella or H. praealtum has occurred at most sites. About 140 species and 9 variables from 53 sites were interrelated in a direct unimodal ordination (canonical correspondence analysis). Ordination results of the 1960s and the 1989 data were compared and interpreted with respect to spread of Hieracium pilosella and H. praealtum. The dynamics of Hieracium infestation was studied within changing community structure. A distinct trend is demonstrated of increasing infestation with increasing grassland degradation.
24060648|The translocation of animals between populations is becoming a common conservation technique, which, in addition to the target species, unfortunately inevitably involves any parasitic organisms they host. Many of these organisms can become pathogenic in a new environment. We assessed the prevalence of intestinal carriage of Salmonella, a common disease organism in wildlife worldwide, in New Zealand native lizards on eight islands off the coast of New Zealand. Cloacal swabs were obtained from 703 lizards and cultured for Salmonella, using four aerobic enrichment and culture methods at two incubation temperatures. We recorded six environmental and physical variables that may affect Salmonella carriage. Logistic regression revealed that two variables were significantly correlated to the presence/absence of Salmonella. In general, Salmonella was found predominantly but not exclusively in six species of lizard and in beach habitats. Salmonella prevalence on the islands was not correlated to previous lizard translocations to the island. More research is required to determine the pathogenicity to New Zealand wildlife of the Salmonella serovars identified in this study. Pending further research, translocations of the six species highlighted in this study or to beach habitats should include disease screening in order to prevent the spread of this potential pathogen.
24060866|This study investigates symbiotic microorganisms in the New Zealand dampwood termite Stolotermes ruficeps using culture-independent techniques to describe the diversity of nitrogen-fixing organisms within this termite. Phylogenetic analysis of a portion of the nifH gene (encoding dinitrogenase reductase) revealed 19 phylotypes (>98% sequence identity) with 7786% similarity to published nucleotide sequences from uncultured microorganisms described from termite guts. The majority of sequences obtained in this study were most closely related to sequences obtained from basal families Kalotermitidae, Termopsidae and the closely related wood-feeding cockroach species Cryptocercus. This adds to the growing amount of evidence suggesting that the composition of nifH sequences is characteristic of a termite family. This study also identifies wood-dwelling termites as a potentially important source of nitrogen input into temperate forests, something previously neglected and warranting further investigation.
24060873|Establishing the factors that correlate with the distribution of invasive species on islands provides a means of evaluating invasion potential and pathways, and enables the invasion risk for specific areas to be predicted. These island risk profiles then provide a basis for conservation managers to prioritise conservation areas, and to create appropriate monitoring regimes. In New Zealand, stoats (Mustela erminea) are invasive predators responsible for numerous local extinctions of birds, and they present a significant invasion risk for offshore islands. Here we examine the distribution of stoats on New Zealand's offshore islands in order to establish what factors are correlated with their distribution, and predict which islands display a high invasion risk. Data on the distribution of stoats were compiled, along with the characteristics of New Zealand's islands and their settlement history. The distribution of stoats on these islands was regressed on island characteristics using a logistic generalised linear model. Species interactions were examined by including the distribution of a range of other introduced mammalian species. The distribution of stoats was found to be strongly affected by the distance offshore and by the area of the island. No significant correlations with the extent of human settlement or the presence of other animals were detected. The model indicates that the invasibility of islands by stoats has been underestimated. Islands within 1 km of the mainland have a very high stoat invasion risk, which is consistent with known invasions, and for large islands ( 500 ha) there remains a significant risk to at least 3 km offshore. This model provides a framework for assessing risks of stoat incursion and makes specific predictions of islands with a significant invasion risk that have not had stoats detected before.
24052389|Feeding intensity of moorhens (Gallinula chloropus) in Scotland is indexed by combining frequency of feeding activities with rates of pecking measured on three substrates. Scottish moorhens peck fastest on a grass/herb sward and slowest on water, with mud intermediate. The foraging pattern over spring, with a March peak, is influenced more by changes in pecking rates than by frequency of feeding activities. Because frequency of feeding and rates of pecking are both higher before sunset than after sunrise the hypothesis of equal feeding intensity at dawn and dusk is discarded. Factors possibly contributing to this result are: reduced energy expenditure at night; diurnal variation in the proportion of time taken up by other, especially social, activities; regulation of bodily heat losses; and diurnal variation in availability of invertebrates and in concentrations of nutrients in plants.
24054477|Ship rat (Rattus rattus) and mouse (Mus musculus) density and habitat use were estimated by snap trapping and tracking tunnels at Kaharoa in central North Island, New Zealand. Eighty-one ship rats were caught in an effective trapping area of 12.4 ha. Extinction trapping gave an estimated density of 6.7 rats ha1 (6.5-7.8 rats ha1, 95% confidence intervals). A linear relationship existed between ship rat trapping and tracking rates. Estimating the density of mice was impossible because trapping rates increased rather than decreased during the experiment. Comparisons of density from tracking and trapping rates of mice may be confounded by interference by rats, but this requires further investigation.
24060738|Descriptions of alpine climate in areas of high solar radiation are increasing, but there is a paucity of microclimate data for shaded alpine rock bluff ecosystems. These shaded systems are important because they represent plant habitats that are subject to unique climate drivers within the alpine ecosystem, but which are poorly characterised globally. We describe microclimate characteristics, including photosynthetically active radiation (PAR), atmospheric vapour pressure deficit, and air (Tair) and soil temperature (Tsoil) for three shaded alpine bluff sites at 13701800 m altitude on the South Island of New Zealand that support a diverse flora, including obligate shaded-bluff species of Pachycladon (Brassicaceae). Maximum instantaneous PAR at all study sites was generally < 100 mol m2 s1, or approximately 5% of full sunlight. Monthly mean Tair at the lowest altitude site ranged between 1.1C and +13.7C and declined to between 4.2C and +7.6C at the highest altitude site. Tsoil covaried with Tair, but with less extreme temperatures. The low-incident PAR of these bluff ecosystems suggests leaf temperatures at these sites are primarily regulated by air temperature and not by incident radiation. This study emphasises the need for information on the physiological response of these alpine plants to climate drivers, particularly in relationship to photosynthetic carbon uptake and respiratory carbon loss.
24056365|A simple deterministic accounting model was used to predict the rate at which a colonising stoat (Mustela erminea L.) population would reach specified sizes. The model was used to explore how the size and composition of the founder population, and the survival schedule to which it was exposed, influenced this rate. A function used in disease surveillance was modified to predict the number of tracking tunnels necessary to detect the presence of the colonising population with a specified degree of confidence. This function was used to assess how the detection characteristics of tracking tunnels (the probability that a stoat will enter a tracking tunnel), and the degree of certainty associated with detection, might influence the number of tracking tunnels required. Founder populations consisting of females and males established more quickly than those consisting of one or two pregnant females in the absence of males. Over and above the effects of founder population size and composition, survival schedules had little influence on the time establishing populations took to attain moderate sizes (<50 individuals). The number of tracking tunnels necessary to detect the presence of a newly establishing stoat population increased exponentially below a population size of about five. Both the detection characteristics of tracking tunnels and the degree of certainty associated with detection influenced the number of tracking tunnels necessary to detect stoats at low abundance.
24060864|Bone-seed, Chrysanthemoides monilifera ssp. monilifera (L.), is an environmental weed of coastal vegetation communities scattered throughout New Zealand. To assess the long-term implications for native forest regeneration in sites where bone-seed is present, we selected four study sites around Wellington, New Zealand, where bone-seed was abundant. We compared seed bank composition in bone-seed-invaded sites with nearby native forest patches, and monitored bone-seed and native seedling recruitment with and without control of mature bone-seed plants. We also tested the potential effects of fire on bone-seed recruitment in these communities by heating seeds prior to germination. Bone-seed, gorse (Ulex europaeus), and native species emerged from seed bank samples taken from bone-seed-invaded sites, but only native species and (less) gorse emerged from seed bank samples taken from native forest patches. Gorse germination was strongly promoted by heat but bone-seed germination was less affected by heat. Bone-seed seedling abundance increased dramatically following canopy removal, whereas native seedling abundance decreased dramatically. This suggests that disturbance of any form is likely to favour recruitment of bone-seed (and gorse) over native species, although in the long term, native seedlings can establish beneath the canopy of mature bone-seed plants. It is not yet known if, in the absence of further disturbance, regenerating native vegetation will eventually replace bone-seed in New Zealand.
24053565|Feral cats became established on Raoul Island some time between 1836 and 1872; the prey available to them included a great variety of nesting seabirds, few of which are present now, landbirds and kiore (Rattus exulans). Norway rats reached the island in 1921, providing additional prey for cats, but also another potential predator of seabirds. The diet of cats is described from guts and scats collected between 1972 and 1980. Rats are the main food, with land birds second in importance, and seabirds are now a minor item. More than 90% of the rats eaten by cats are kiore although more Norway rats than kiore are trapped. Eradicating cats from Raoul Island is feasible but because Norway rats too are important predators of birds on islands, it is likely that eradicating cats without also eradicating Norway rats will do little to restore the diversity of bird species on Raoul Island, although the densities of a few species now present might be increased.
24054672|A modern pollen-vegetation data set of 46 samples is presented from subantarctic Campbell Island, 600 km south of the New Zealand mainland. The sampled vegetation includes all major community types: maritime turf and grassland, sedge flushes, dwarf forest, scrub, cushion bog, tussock grassland, and high altitude graminoid turfs and tundra. Macrophyllous forbs - characteristic plants of subantarctic islands - are common throughout. Most taxa have highly restricted pollen dispersal, largely due to the short stature of the vegetation and the high proportion of insect-pollinated species. Percentages of pollen or spores of the dominant taxa have a significant positive correlation with the percent vegetation cover of the corresponding species, the exceptions being the widespread ferns Polystichum vestitum and Blechnum spp., and the ubiquitous macrophyllous forb, Bulbinella rossii. The relationship between the vegetation cover of a given taxon and its pollen representation was usually not strong enough to give confidence in a quantitative reconstruction based on pollen frequency alone. However, the broad vegetation groupings have characteristic pollen and spore spectra clearly related to the abundance of their dominant plant species. Detrended correspondence analysis of the pollen spectra grouped most sites according to their source vegetation type and generated a pattern similar to that of vegetation data analysed in a similar fashion in previous studies of the island. This study, together with recent work on Auckland Island pollen and spore representation, has resulted in a combined modern palynological data base of more than 100 sites for the New Zealand subantarctic islands.
24058151|The importance of possums as competitors with livestock for pasture is sometimes used as justification for possum control. Unfortunately a confusion of wet and dry weight values of pasture and daily consumption by possums appears to have resulted in a significant overestimate of the economic costs of possums as pasture pests. A correctly estimated daily dry matter intake of pasture by possums is 0.0144 kg pasture dry matter per possum per day. For a possum density of 1 ha1, this amounts to a reduction of about 1% of a stock unit ha1 year1. At higher possum densities, which often occur on farms adjacent to forest or scrub, losses would be correspondingly higher. A more direct way to measure possum impact on pasture production would be to use exclosures.
24060854|Invasive mammalian herbivores (e.g. deer, feral goats and brushtail possums; hereafter 'herbivores') are widespread throughout New Zealand and their control is important for conservation. In addition to known biodiversity benefits, it has recently been suggested that herbivore control could lead to measureable carbon gains when aggregated across a large area of conservation land. However, a significant amount of uncertainty exists regarding the potential effects of herbivore control on carbon, and the practicalities of successfully implementing such projects. This paper provides a general basis for managers and ecologists to design scientifically robust herbivore control projects for carbon gain in New Zealand. Although there are few direct data on changes in carbon sequestration rates following herbivore control, the data that are available suggest that effect sizes are likely to be small in magnitude, variable in direction, and to occur primarily though complex indirect mechanisms. The largest positive effects of herbivore control (carbon sequestration rate of 12 Mg C ha1 year1) are likely to occur in localised areas of highly palatable early-successional vegetation and high herbivore densities where control initiates rapid development of woody vegetation. Project location is therefore critical in determining the potential for carbon gain in herbivore control projects. A power analysis reveals that the ability to monitor changes in carbon stock using plot-based methods is limited to effect sizes of > 0.5 Mg C ha1 year1, as smaller effect sizes would require an impractically large number of plots (i.e. >100), and the financial and carbon costs of implementing the control and quantifying the effects are likely to outweigh any potential carbon gains. Although more research is urgently required to quantify potential gains, and the mechanisms that underlie them, our findings suggest that with careful site selection, implementation, and monitoring, control of invasive mammalian herbivores could sometimes provide carbon gains in certain areas of New Zealand's indigenous vegetation.
24052819|Samples of stomach contents were collected from 104 feral pigs (Sus scrofa) shot in the Urewera Ranges between December 1982 and June 1985. These were sorted into food items which were dried, weighed, and combined to give estimates of their annual and seasonal diets. Overall 51.8% of the pigs' food was obtained by foraging on the ground, 30.6% by rooting, and 17.6% by browsing and grazing. Their annual diet comprised 71.9% plant material and 28.1% animal material, the proportions being similar in all seasons. The fruits of tawa (Beilschmiedia tawa), hinau (Elaeocarpus dentatus), and supplejack (Ripogonum scandens) together made up one-third of the pigs' diet. These were taken seasonally, comprising 60% of their food in autumn, 42% in winter, and 25% in summer. The other major plant foods were the roots of supplejack, the fronds and stems of tree ferns (Cyathea spp.), and the rhizomes and roots of bracken (Pteridium esculentum); the first two foods were taken mainly in spring and summer. Earthworms and vertebrate carrion, especially the carcasses of brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecula), were the main animal foods eaten. It is suggested that periodic fluctuations in pig numbers may be associated with yearly differences in tawa and hinau fruiting.
24052790|The available literature on ragwort is reviewed. The ecological behaviour of ragwort can be explained by its tendency to act as a colonising plant, which is encouraged by pasture disturbance. Ragwort-infested pasture and closed pasture alternate with each other, and this is influenced by a number of environmental and management factors.
24053671|Pronounced differences between the vegetation of four islands in a low-alpine lake compared to an adjacent mainland site are attributed to browsing by feral goats. The herbs Anisotome haastii and Ourisia macrocarpa are significantly more abundant on the islands, where they form tall herbfields. The grass Hierochloe recurvata and the shrub Gaultheria crassa were also more common on the islands, and were absent at the mainland study site. It is suggested that these species may be useful indicators for assessing the success of feral goat control operations in low-alpine areas of the Paparoa Range.
24054647|Hihi (or stitchbird, Notiomystis cincta) is a rare honeyeater endemic to the North Island of New Zealand. Hihi were translocated from Little Barrier Island to Mokoia Island, Lake Rotorua, in 1994. Mokoia is a small (135 ha) island with secondary vegetation, so there was some doubt as to whether the island had sufficient diversity of fruit and nectar sources to support a hihi population. This paper reports data collected in the year after the translocation on the density, distribution and phenology of plants likely to be used by hihi. We address the following questions. (1) How many hihi food plant species are on Mokoia? (2) How are the food plant species distributed over the island? (3) Are there periods when flower and fruit sources are scarce and/or spatially confined? (4) How might the availability of fruit and nectar change with succession or additional planting? There was always a minimum of 2-3 species providing nectar or fruit used by hihi. Most (16/21) of the species providing nectar flowered during the hihi breeding period, from October-February, and most (9/16) of these were canopy tree species. The greatest diversity of fruit sources was from March-May. August-September stood out as the period with the lowest diversity of fruit and flower sources, followed by June-July. While there was no time of year when hihi clearly suffered from shortage of fruit and nectar, we suggest that they may be susceptible to shortages in future years at times when diversity of food sources is low. We recommend further planting that could make the island more suitable for hihi in the long term.
24054652|There are at least three hypotheses to account for the abundance of divaricating shrubs in New Zealand: 1) Ratites in the form of 11 species of moa, led to divarication for browse protection (Greenwood and Atkinson, 1977); 2) Divarication evolved as a microclimatic shield (McGlone and Webb, 1981); 3) Divarication evolved to aid leaves in light harvesting (Kelly, 1994). In Patagonia before human arrival, there were browsing mammals in addition to the ratite rhea. To examine the possible influence of the different grazing animals on the degree of divarication in Patagonian shrubs, a transect was established across Argentine Patagonia at c.40 S lat., from Andean forests to the shrub desert of the east, providing a rainfall gradient from 3000mm to 134mm annual precipitation. Divarication Indices of Atkinson (1992), IATK and Kelly (1994), IKEL were calculated for all shrubs encountered at 20 sites along this gradient. As IKEL gave zero values for four leafless shrubs, including the important Mulinum spinosum, this index was not further used for distributional analyses. IATK gave 18 species as fully divaricate (IATK > 14) and 8 as semi-divaricate (IATK <14). The highest values of IATK were lower than in New Zealand (Atkinson 1992), a function of a lower number of wide-angle branches (>90) in Patagonia. All except two species were spiny, as were most other shrubs on the traverse. Unlike the majority of divaricates in New Zealand which retain divarication in dense forest, none of the Patagonian shrubs are divaricate in forest and only two species divaricate in more open forest and scrub. Divaricate cover increased steeply along the traverse through drier, open forest and seral scrub. Once out of the seral scrub zone into arid country, a different suite of divaricate taxa was encountered. The diversity and cover of divaricates rose to reach a maxima at 134 mm annual precipitation. In Patagonia, divarication and spininess could be responses to the indigenous browsing mammals that are common in the semiarid and arid zones, or to climate.
24060781|Designing robust monitoring programmes for cryptic species is particularly difficult. Not detecting a species does not necessarily mean that it is absent from the sampling area. A conclusion of absence made in error can lead to misguided inferences about distribution, colonisation and local extinction estimates, which in turn affects where and how conservation actions are undertaken. It is therefore important to investigate monitoring techniques that reduce the non-detection rate of cryptic species. As habitat complexity plays an important role in the activity of bats within a forest, it was hypothesised that the amount of vegetative 'clutter' present at different heights within two different forest types affected the flight activity of lesser short-tailed bats (Mystacina tuberculata). This could affect detection of the species within different forest structures. To compare bat activity at three heights  top (22.025.0 m), middle (10.012.0 m) and bottom (1.52.0 m)  within a podocarp and a beech forest we used automatic bat monitors during January to March 2005. The number of bat passes was recorded at each height at two study areas within each forest and compared between forest types. The forest structure was described using the Recce method and vegetative cover estimated within the three height tiers sampled for bat activity. Within both forest types, the middle-level bat detectors logged the greatest amount of activity. However, differences between the forest types were most pronounced closer to the ground, where a high amount of activity was detected within the beech forest, and very little within the podocarp forest. This suggests that flight activity of lesser short-tailed bats may be affected by the level of vegetative clutter found at different heights within a forest. When designing monitoring programmes for lesser short-tailed bats, it is recommended that consideration be given to the forest structure and how this may affect detection of bat activity.
24054690|Two techniques for assessing possum (Trichosurus vulpecula Kerr) diet from stomach contents ("point-sampling" and "layer-separation") are described and compared. Point-sampling involves sieving stomach contents, systematically selecting fragments from the retained material then, identifying and weighing these. Layer-separation involves separation, identification, and weighing of the discrete layers apparent in most possum stomach contents. In 41 of 43 stomachs examined, we were able to separate discrete layers that nearly always comprised a single food item. To compare the two techniques both were applied to these 41 stomachs, with the point-sampling technique applied as two separate treatments using 1.4-mm and 2.0-mm sieves. There were major differences in diet composition estimates between layer-separation and point-sampling but with few differences between the two point-sampling treatments. Relative to layer-separation, point-sampling underestimated the proportions of food groups with small average fragment size and overestimated those with large fragment size. However, both techniques gave similar frequencies of occurrence for 8 of 10 food groups tested, although the apparent importance of foods based on ranking by frequency of occurrence did not accurately match the ranking based on percent composition data. Identification of material was usually easier and more complete with layer-separation than with point-sampling (i.e., there were virtually no unidentifiable stems and fibre after layer-separation). Layer-separation therefore appears likely to provide a simple technique for diet assessment in possums. Although the technique requires formal validation the existence of layers shows that there can have been little mixing (or digestion) of stomach contents, and therefore, that the layer-separation estimates cannot differ greatly from what was eaten. Techniques that involve sieving possum stomach contents appear to have serious limitations, but may be useful as a last resort when layers contain a mixture of foods, or for stomachs in which the layers are not distinguishable.
24054545|Flowering intensity and plant size were monitored in 155 Festuca novae-zelandiae individuals over four years to determine if trade-offs exist between inflorescence production and vegetative growth, and between inflorescence production in different years. Less than half of the population flowered in any one year, 36% of individuals did not flower at all, and only 17% flowered in all four years of the study. Mean number of inflorescences per individual per year varied from 1.54 to 5.53 (maximum = 85). No trade-offs were detected between flowering frequency and intensity; individuals that flowered more frequently also produced more inflorescences in each flowering episode. No trade-off was detected between current and future reproduction, rather flowering intensity was positively correlated between years. Growth, as measured by diameter increment, was positively related to flowering frequency and flowering intensity, both across all individuals studied and within 1m  1m plots. The presence of a positive relationship between growth and reproduction within plots argues against meso-scale variability in environment factors being the cause of the results from analyses involving all individuals. Clearly reproduction in F. novae-zelandiae does not incur a marked cost in growth or future reproduction. The assumptions underlying theoretical expectations of such trade-offs may not be valid for long-lived clonal plants such as F. novae-zelandiae.
24052796|Tag loss caused by an underlying Poisson process biases downwards the estimate(s) of the survival parameter(s) in a multi-sample single recapture census. A simple approximate correction is possible in this case. The less plausible assumption of homogenous tag loss is also examined and it is shown that the survival parameter(s) again can be simply corrected.
24056423|Major trends in forest successions following fires are identified for northern offshore islands of New Zealand. Data are from the author's observations over several decades, and published descriptions. Islands studied extend from the Cavalli group in the north to the Aldermen group in the south. Their original vegetation was largely destroyed by human-induced fires. Successions that followed were dominated for several centuries by pohutukawa (Metrosideros excelsa) or, for a shorter time, by kanuka (Kunzea ericoides). Compared with other seral species, pohutukawa retards the rate at which a diverse community can develop. This should be recognised when restoring an island that has lost most of its woody vegetation.
24052004|Results of field and laboratory experiments on decomposition of leaves and twigs of mountain beech (Nothofagus solandri var. cliffortioides) submerged in stream water are presented. Litter released up to 6% of its initial dry weight as leachate within 11 days of immersion. Subsequent losses of water soluble components from litter were constant at about 0.05% per day. Litter in 0.2 and 1.0 mm mesh bags kept in a mountain stream lost up to 65% of initial dry weight in one year. This loss rate is slower than that of any litter species reported to date but was partly due to the inclusion of twigs in the present study. Macrofauna colonising the bags did not affect weight loss. Nitrogen increases of up to 0.5% in litter are attributed to microbial colonisation. Although weight losses conformed to linear, positive and negative exponential, and logistic models, consideration of possible mechanisms of weight loss suggests that the latter represents the most accurate interpretation.
24054478|Brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) were offered Japanese quail (Coturnix japonica) eggs and day-old domestic chickens (Gallus gallus) during a captive feeding trial. Differences in feeding sign left by possums of differing sex, age class, and hunger were slight or absent. Possum feeding trial remains were also compared with remains of North Island robin (Petroica australis longipes) and North Island tomtit (Petroica macrocephala toitoi) eggs and chicks preyed on by ship rats (Rattus rattus) at videoed nests. Eggs fed on by possums were frequently crushed or had crushed shell margins whereas eggs preyed on by ship rats often had jagged shell margins and separate small shell fragments. Possums that ate chickens mostly left partially eaten carcasses with torn flesh, of which 50% were at least partially skinned. Ship rats left partially eaten birds with chewed flesh and bones but did not skin carcases. Possums rarely spat out shell pellets but produced feather pellets on eight of 13 occasions. Egg shell remains left by possums were indistinguishable from those left by ship rats for 11% of 72 shell remains examined from the feeding trial. Characteristic sign should enable possums and ship rats to be differentiated as predators after most but not all predations.
24058142|The European hedgehog is a significant predator species of rare and endangered ground-nesting birds in the riverbeds of the Waitaki Basin, South Island, New Zealand. Studies focusing on the movements and habits of this species have generally been limited to broad-scale radio-tracking studies or incidental trap-catch data. Within our study, we aimed to investigate the finer scale movement patterns of the hedgehog in relation to vegetation structure by using spool-and-thread tracking. We captured 30 hedgehogs (15 female, 15 male) within the study area, and spool-and-thread-tracked the movements of each over a single night. Only two of the 30 animals moved onto the gravel areas of the riverbeds where birds nest  hedgehogs may therefore not target birds' nests as a primary prey source, but rather as a secondary prey item. The movement paths were all non-random, and males demonstrated particular linearity in their tracks. This straighter and more directed movement may be due to more intensive mate search at this time of the year. We also assessed habitat use using a very high resolution habitat map (derived from Ikonos 4-m-resolution satellite image). Dense grassland was the most selected habitat type, perhaps because insect prey are at a higher density in this vegetation type. Hedgehogs (particularly males) also used boundaries of all habitat types significantly more than the centre of habitat patches. We found the spool-and-thread tracking technique does have limitations: (1) it could be inappropriate for animals exhibiting a significant escape response; (2) the data do not include a temporal dimension. However, these problems were not considered relevant for this study. Fine-scale studies such as this can provide increased power when investigating the ecology of species at a scale relevant to trap placement.
24054431|Exclosure plots established in three separate areas of kanuka (Kunzea ericoides var. ericoides) forest on south Kaipara spit in 1983 to assess the impact of introduced fallow deer (Dama dama) were remeasured in 1993. Kanuka shared canopy dominance with mapou (Myrsine australis), houpara (Pseudopanax lessonii) and mahoe (Melicytus ramiflorus ssp. ramiflorus) in relatively old forest in Lookout Bush, Woodhill, and dominated exclusively in two younger stands at South Head; Coprosma rhamnoides dominated understories throughout. At Lookout Bush cohort senescence continued in kanuka and began in mapou and houpara during the period of the study. Seedling thickets of kanuka self-thinned and were also likely to have been smothered by other species. Massive recruitment of mahoe occurred inside the exclosure, and continued in houpara, mostly outside. Mahoe and another generation of houpara are replacing the existing canopy in the absence of deer, and another generation of kanuka and houpara elsewhere in a partially stalled succession. Canopies are still intact at South Head, and there were no major changes in populations of canopy species. However, similar successional pathways are likely to occur there in future. An influx of highly palatable shrubs, e.g., coastal karamu (Coprosma macrocarpa) and hangehange (Geniostoma rupestre var. ligustrifolium), into collapsing forest in the absence of deer, and their scarcity or absence elsewhere, indicates continuing impoverishment of the understorey as well as the canopy by deer. In the long term it is likely that a variety of broadleaved trees will invade these stands and that tall semi-coastal forest, similar to extant relics on the dunes, will develop. In the meantime, the high conservation value of these stands suggests that a major reduction in the deer population - sufficient to allow natural successional changes to proceed unhindered - should be a conservation priority for the region.
24058103|Recent work has shown that resource accumulation is important in allowing mast-seeding plants to display occasional intense reproductive efforts. Anecdotal reports suggest that Chionochloa tussocks (bunchgrasses) on patch edges flower more frequently, and it has been proposed that this is due to greater resource availability. This study aimed to quantify any edge effect in flowering effort in Chionochloa populations at Mt Hutt in the Southern Alps of New Zealand, and to look for correlations with available soil nutrients. It also focused on how higher flowering along edges might affect seed predation rates in these plants, since seed predation is recognised as the likely cause of masting in this genus. As predicted, in a generally low-flowering year flowering was found to be most prolific on upslope edges across a range of altitudes with at least 43% of the flowering effort in the upslope plots being concentrated in the 20% of plot area within 2 m of the upper edge. Upslope edges also exhibited higher nitrate availability than did patch interiors or downslope edges. However, other measured nutrients did not show such a clear pattern. The elevated flowering effort on upslope edges does support the importance of a resource accumulation component in flowering effort. Higher edge-flowering did not significantly affect the distribution of the insect seed predators, suggesting the scale at which these insects move in search of oviposition sites is greater than the scale of the vegetation patches studied.
24058148|Species abundance, species richness, and ground cover were measured over 10 years on nine paired grazed and exclosure plots in short-tussock grassland in the early stages of invasion by Hieracium species. With and without grazing, H. pilosella and H. caespitosum increased markedly and H. lepidulum increased locally. In contrast, 50% of all other common species and species groups, and total, native, and exotic species richness declined significantly. Exclusion increased or had no effect on rates of increase in Hieracium species and rates of decline in short tussocks, and did not reduce rates of decline in other species. Exclusion had no effect on decline in native species richness, but mainly accelerated declines in total and exotic richness. Declines in 13 key vegetation variables were significantly predicted by increase in Hieracium abundance, suggesting competitive exclusion. With or without grazing, Hieracium species will become more dominant and other species will continue to decline. The effects of large herbivores on plant species diversity can often be predicted from site productivity. Our results indicate the need also to account for species origin, spatial scale, time, and exotic invasion.
24053255|During the last 1800 years there have been eight periods of increased erosion and alluvial sedimentation in New Zealand, which have generally decreased in magnitude towards the present. Throughout New Zealand, alluvium of all erosion periods contains abundant remains of plants as evidence of widespread destruction of vegetation during erosion periods. Indices of the relative magnitude of alluviation, and estimates of the damage to vegetation in the current Waipawa Period (since 1950), are applied to estimate the impact of earlier erosion periods. In 13 basins on the Ruahine Range, 2.6% of the 1950 vegetated area was destoyed by slope erosion during 1950-1986; on the Pouakai Range (Taranaki) it was 3.2%. On these ranges the areas of vegetation probably destroyed or damaged by erosion, alluviation and other factors are estimated as 17-18% in the Wakarara Period (180-150 years BP), 26% for Matawhero (450-330 years BP), 52% for Waihirere (680-600 years BP) and >52% for the pre-Kaharoa Period (1300-900 years BP). The vegetation of other areas, in both North and South Islands, would have been affected to greater or lesser extents. Large areas of vegetation along downstream channels, and on flood plains, were destroyed by alluviation in each previous erosion period. On alluvial sites the vegetation is closely linked to the history of the site  it may grow entirely on the new surface or be a mixture of survivors and new colonists. The accelerated erosion, alluviation and consequent vegetation destruction in erosion periods, were associated with atmospheric warming and increases of major rainstorms and floods; they did not coincide with either the colonisation or activities of humans or mammals. Since 1950, the impact of rainstorms and floods has increased, while mammal populations have been reduced. Local fauna is seriously affected when vegetation is destroyed, and some species may have become extinct, or very reduced because of erosion periods. The present national forest estate is dominated by relatively young forests which are still developing towards some condition of quasi-equilibrium. Even in the absence of humans and mammals this vegetation would be in a dynamic state of imbalance and change.
24053735|The dispersal, germination and establishment of the New Zealand Loranthaceae (Alepis flavida, Peraxilla colensoi, P. tetrapetala, Ileostylus micranthus and Tupeia antarctica) were investigated. The most important bird dispersers were tui, bellbirds and silvereyes. These birds appear to provide reasonably good quality dispersal: fruits were swallowed whole and the seeds later defecated in germinable condition; birds tended to visit plants for only 1-2 minutes and eat a few mistletoe fruits each time. Germinability of seeds ranged between species from moderate to high (17-96%). None of the study species of mistletoe germinated successfully unless the fruit skin (exocarp) was removed, by hand or by passage through a bird gut. While hand removal of the exocarp gave the same or higher percentage germination as bird removal, in the field bird dispersal is the only effective method of exocarp removal and is therefore essential. Dispersal was limiting at one of three sites studied (Craigieburn), suggesting that reductions in bellbird densities by introduced carnivores or competition for honeydew food sources may be indirectly affecting mistletoe reproduction. Establishment and survival of seedlings on host branches was low (15-28% depending on species to production of first independent leaves, 0-14% after two years). Survival of adults over one year of the study was 80% for Tupeia and 91-95% in the other species, showing that frequent establishment of seedlings is necessary for population maintenance. While disperser limitation does not seem to currently be a major threat to mistletoe survival, it must be considered as as possible factor both historically and in the future.
24052820|Autopsies on over 3000 rabbits collected between October 1980 and January 1983 provided information on the reproduction of rabbits in Central Otago. In contrast to year-round breeding elsewhere in New Zealand, reproduction was restricted to the period September-February. Distinct seasonal cycles occurred in both male and female fertility. Both sexes reached peak fertility when 12-17 months old. Female fertility is also related to carcass weight and condition. Most females (80%) experienced some pre-natal mortality, which accounted for about 30% of ovulations. Pre-natal mortality varied seasonally and was greatest in young (<6 months) and older (18 months) females. Despite a larger mean litter size (6.04), the annual productivity of 23.1 young per female is about half that of other areas in New Zealand, an effect of the restricted breeding season. Comparisons for most reproductive parameters highlight the effects of seasonally severe but predictable environmental conditions in Central Otago. Poisoning success will be greatest between March and August, when there are fewer territorial and social constraints on a rabbit's ability to encounter baits.
24054749|Insect communities from a range of successional vegetation stages on the central North Island volcanic plateau were characterised and compared using Malaise trapped beetle samples. Results were derived from sampling series conducted in a total of ten sites over three separate summers. Divisive classification successfully grouped samples according to four main habitat types despite temporal and spatial separation of samples within these groups. A four-week period in early summer was found to be optimum for sample discrimination according to the main vegetation types. Component species and the functional (trophic) structure of samples showed a relationship with generic habitat types as well as reflecting attributes of the individual sites sampled. The most useful information was derived from the identity of the biological entities rather than simply from numerical relationships. Use of this pragmatic methodology has potential to improve our ecosystem understanding and the sustainable management of the dominant area of terrestrial biodiversity provided sufficient attention is given to standardisation, particularly of taxonomy.
24052680|In a cultural-ecological perspective of New Zealand pastoralism the amount and form of energy supplements at different stages of pastoral development are characterized and prospects for sustainability discussed. The history of the pastoral exploitation of the tussock grasslands of South Island, New Zealand is reviewed with particular attention to physiognomic changes brought about by early fire and grazing. Current changes in farming on high country mark an end to the exploitative phase of use of the tussock grasslands and promise a transformation of some existing grassland communities into entirely different associations. The opportunities and needs for biological reservation of tussock grasslands are re-examined in the light of the changes that have been already induced and of the development now occurring.
24056429|The grass genus Chionochloa in New Zealand exhibits a high degree of mast seeding synchronised across species and habitats. Masting appears to be maintained by a predator satiation mechanism involving three pre-dispersal seed- and flower-feeding insects. It is not clear how important each of the three insects is in favouring the masting strategy. An undescribed cecidomyiid fly (Diptera: Cecidomyiidae) may be particularly important, since its conspicuous larvae are found throughout the South Island of New Zealand on many Chinochloa species. Despite the wide distribution of the larvae, it is not clear whether they are conspecific. Since the species is undescribed and adults are rarely seen, there may be different species on different host plants or in different geographic areas. We used Inter Simple Sequence Repeats (ISSRs) to determine whether cecidomyiid larvae found in four different areas in the South Island and on four species of Chionochloa exhibited molecular variation consistent with the presence of a single species of fly. Cluster analysis using Unweighted Pair-Group Method using Arithmetic averages (UPGMA) based on 38 ISSR fragments showed no clusters based on either host plant or geography. Analyis of Molecular Variance (AMOVA) analyses showed statistically significant differentiation among both host populations and geographic populations, but most of the molecular variation was explained by individual variation within geographic regions and host-plant populations. Thus, the molecular variation in the cecidomyiid larvae suggests the presence of a single species of cecidomyiid. Our data, combined with previous population surveys, suggest that the cecidomyiid is the most widespread of Chionochloa seed predators and may provide the selective benefit for the synchronous flowering observed among different Chionochloa populations in New Zealand.
24058099|The diet of 871 stoats (Mustela erminea) caught within the Okarito Kiwi Sanctuary, South Westland, New Zealand, between 2001 and 2004 was studied by assessment of gut contents. Stoat and ship rat (Rattus rattus) captures were used as a measure of relative abundance over time, and rat and mouse (Mus musculus) abundance was indexed using tracking tunnels between spring 2002 and winter 2004. There were major increases in rat captures in spring of 2002 and again in spring of 2003. Stoat captures peaked in the following summers, as rat captures declined. Rats and invertebrates were major components of stoat diet, occurring in 41% and 52% of guts respectively; birds were found in 19%. Changes in these percentages with time indicated that stoats shifted their diet from rats to birds and invertebrates as rat abundance (as indexed by tracking tunnels) decreased. The greatest impact on native species is therefore likely to be when rat abundance is declining after major irruptions, as the increased consumption of birds and invertebrates overlaps with the periods of highest stoat abundance.
24058159|Totara-matai forests are an under-represented forest type in Westland, relative to their original extent, and require protection and enhancement where possible. This study examined the regeneration of totara on gorse-covered river terraces of the Whataroa and Waiho Rivers, on a site grazed by cattle at Whataroa, and ungrazed sites at both locations. Totara is regenerating prolifically at all sites. Tall-seedling densities were significantly higher at the grazed Whataroa site than at the ungrazed Whataroa site. Conversely densities of small seedlings were significantly higher at the ungrazed Waiho site, with the majority of seedlings occurring on raised surfaces created by rafted logs or occasional silt patches, than at either of the Whataroa sites where seedlings established on the ground. Sapling and tree densities were similar at both Whataroa sites, but significantly greater than at the Waiho site. There was a significant relationship between the density of saplings and trees with terrace age at the Whataroa sites. Gorse cover and seedling density were significantly related at both ungrazed sites, but not at the grazed site. Grazing and gorse cover both appear to have roles in totara regeneration on river terraces. The implications of current management for future forest development are discussed, and it is considered that these areas warrant designation as areas of significant indigenous vegetation because of their conservation potential.
24052602|This paper describes the first visit to Jacquemart Island in the south of the subantarctic Campbell Island group. The island contrasts with the main island by the absence of introduced grazing mammals, rats (Rattus spp.) and feral cats (Felis catus), and in the dominance of palatable plant species. A survey of the main vegetation communities was made and bird species seen were recorded. Specimens of an endemic weta (Notoplectron campbellensis) were collected.
24055342|In a Festuca novae-zelandiae short tussock grassland in South Island, New Zealand, we tested the propositions (1) that present regional trends in vascular plant species-richness in tussock grasslands are independent of current pastoral management, and (2) that grazing retards the invasion and dominance of non-native species, particularly where soil resources are not limiting. Sheep and rabbit-grazed, ungrazed, ungrazed+fertilised and ungrazed+irrigated treatments were applied in a replicated experiment that was sampled annually from 1988 to 2000. Native species richness and native forb cover decreased, and exotic grasses increased in all treatments, with no significant differences between grazed and ungrazed treatments in either trends or final cover. Exotic species richness decreased in the ungrazed, ungrazed+fertilised and ungrazed+irrigated treatments but showed no trend in grazed vegetation. Cover of native tussock grasses and the tall shrub Carmichaelia petriei decreased in the grazed treatment, remained steady in the ungrazed treatment and increased in the ungrazed+fertilised and ungrazed+irrigated treatments. Native subshrubs decreased in the grazed, ungrazed+fertilised and ungrazed+irrigated treatments but not in the ungrazed treatment. The invasive forb Hieracium pilosella increased with time in grazed, ungrazed, and ungrazed+irrigated treatments, but after 10 years it decreased in the ungrazed+fertilised treatment and its cover was negligible there after 12 years. Grazing appeared to reduce the cover of tussocks and certain woody species, and we conclude that current management affected vegetation trends. Grazing did not decrease the dominance of exotic species, or maintain native species richness at a higher level than in ungrazed vegetation. There was limited recovery of taller native species with grazing removal alone. However, grazing removal plus 12 years of resource enrichment promoted the growth of native tall shrubs and tussocks and did not result in physiognomic dominance by exotic species. Succession towards taller native tussock-shrubland communities may be an appropriate goal for conservation management of short tussock grasslands, and nutrient enrichment in the absence of grazing may be an appropriate management device in some circumstances.
24054693|The measurement of parasitism rates of wasp nests at Pelorus Bridge, New Zealand, at different distances from the initial release point suggests that the mean displacement of the parasitoid has increased by 1 - 1.5 km y1 from 1988 to 1993. Since average parasitism rates within this radius at any given site show little trend over time, this suggests an approximate 3-fold increase in the total parasitoid population each year, two-thirds of which is devoted to dispersal and one-third to maintaining local populations.
24058186|The Department of Conservation established tree fuchsia (Fuchsia excorticata) monitoring in the Tararua Range in 1994 to determine the effectiveness of large-scale (66 000 ha) possum control for protecting fuchsia. We present results from data collected from 39 permanent plots on fuchsia tree stem survival, growth, and canopy condition between 1994 and 2004 using standard permanent plot and foliar assessment methods. Plots were established in four areas where possums were controlled or 'treated' by aerial application of sodium monofluoroacetate (1080) poison, and in one untreated area. More fuchsia stems died in the untreated area (29.8%) than in the treated areas combined (mean of 7%) over the duration of the study. Stem mortality was offset by a mean 3% ( 1.1% SEM) increase in fuchsia basal area in the treated areas, whereas basal area declined by 15% in the untreated area. Stem mortality occurred largely in smaller size-classes (<21 cm diameter) in all areas. Mean foliar cover showed a greater decline (42%) in the untreated area than in the treated areas (range 0 to 26%). Within two of the four treated areas, foliar cover declined as the interval between possum control operations lengthened. Our results clearly show that the conservation goal of preventing 25% mortality of tree fuchsia between 1994 and 2004 was successfully achieved in upland possum control areas.
24054764|Sodium monofluoroacetate (1080) is a highly toxic vertebrate pesticide that has been widely used for possum and rabbit control in New Zealand since the 1950s. Because of its importance in pest control and the highly toxic nature of this compound, its environmental fate, persistence, non-target impacts and general toxicology have been and continue to be extensively studied. A series of in vitro (cell culture) and laboratory animal studies (in rats and mice) have recently been undertaken to update the regulatory toxicology database for 1080. Results of three different, complementary tests indicate that 1080 is not mutagenic, and therefore unlikely to cause cancer. Results of developmental toxicity studies indicate that 1080 causes developmental defects in rats when pregnant females are exposed to relatively high doses (0.33 and 0.75 mg kg1 day1) on a daily basis during the period of organogenesis (from days 6 through to 17 of gestation). The developmental abnormalities observed were mild skeletal effects: slightly curved forelimbs, and bent or "wavy" ribs. These results highlight the highly toxic nature of 1080 and the need for extreme care when handling this pesticide during the manufacture and distribution of bait, but do not preclude its proper use. The morphological changes in foetuses observed in the recently completed rat developmental toxicity studies are likely to raise concern regarding the exposure of humans (particularly pregnant mothers) to 1080 through contamination of waterways after the aerial sowing of 1080 baits. However, ongoing monitoring (199098) of waterways from areas where 1080 baits have been aerially sown confirms that there is negligible risk of human contact with 1080 through this route of exposure.
24056366|We have been studying the social behaviour and ecology of pukeko (Porphyrio porphyrio) for over five years at a study site in the lower Taieri River, Otago New Zealand. After an application of rabbit poison in 1995 and the illegal release of rabbit haemorrhagic disease (RHD) in 1997, there was strong anecdotal evidence that rabbit (Oryctolagus cuniculus) abundance on and around our study site had been substantially reduced. In a retrospective analysis, we compared predation rates on the nests of pukeko over a four-year period (1991-1994) before the application of these measures and one year after the release of RHD (1998). Significantly more nests were predated in 1998 than in previous years. While we recognise a number of possible explanations for this result, we suggest that one of the most plausible reasons for the increase in predation rates is a shift in diet by the rabbit specialist predator, the Australasian harrier (Circus approximans).
24058185|Mid to late 20th century expansion of Dracophyllum scrub into tussock grassland on subantarctic Campbell Island has been attributed to the collective effects of global warming, cessation of farming in 1931, and continued grazing by feral sheep. To determine the importance of these, we dated the timing of scrub expansion by aging 241 Dracophyllum plants in 17 plots chosen to sample the range of environments this shrub/small tree occupies on Campbell Island. Three plots, in lowland, well-drained, locations were dominated by large, old Dracophyllum that had established between 1846 and 1940. Virtually all shrubs in the remaining plots had established after 1940, with peaks in 1970 and 1985. The pattern of establishment does not coincide with any marked change in the temperature regime, although a prolonged period of relatively dry winters (c. 19701990) coincides with a late surge of regeneration on very wet sites. The removal of feral sheep from different parts of the island at different times is also unrelated to the pattern of establishment. In contrast, Dracophyllum spread follows farm abandonment in 1931 when regular burning ceased, suggesting that Dracophyllum is invading sites from which it was excluded by fire. However, the earliest reports from the mid 19th century indicate that tussock grassland was previously the dominant vegetation cover on the island, with limited Dracophyllum scrub. It is possible that the reduction of the dense tussock grasslands by fire and grazing in late 19thearly 20th century opened a regeneration window for Dracophyllum scrub to spread once burning ceased.
24058219|Fire occurs relatively frequently in beech (Nothofagus) forest in drought prone eastern areas of the South Island, New Zealand. Because beech is poorly adapted to fire, and is slow to regenerate, forest is normally replaced by scrub or grassland. Seeding was investigated as a means of restoring mountain beech (N. solandri var. cliffortioides) forest after fire destroyed 300 ha of forest at Mt. Thomas, Canterbury, in 1980. A mixture of mountain beech, Leptospermum scoparium and other small tree and shrub species was sown within a year of the fire in the presence and absence of pasture species as a cover crop, and fertiliser. Seeding of mountain beech and L. scoparium was successful, but other species were of limited success. Competition from pasture species inhibited establishment of all native species. Fertiliser increased L. scoparium plant numbers in the first year but had no other beneficial effect on establishment of native species. Leptospermum scoparium provided a dense shrub cover in plots where the native species were sown in the absence of pasture species, but mountain beech had begun to overtop the shrub canopy by 20 years after seeding. Browsing by insects or small animals in the first 2 years is suggested as the main cause of mortality in mountain beech. Mountain beech seeded at 1.4 kg/ha resulted in about 1800 saplings/ha at age 20. It is suggested that seeding the wider burn area more than 2 years after the fire would have been unsuccessful because of competition from herbaceous species, especially Agrostis capillaris, which rapidly invaded the burnt area. A strategy is outlined for establishing mountain beech over large areas when limited quantities of seed are available.
24058181|The relative abundance of ship rats (Rattus rattus), Norway rats (R. norvegicus), and Pacific rats (R. exulans), was measured in four vegetation types on Stewart Island/Rakiura, over six consecutive seasons. Ship rats were found in all four vegetation types and dominated in podocarp-broadleaf forest and riparian shrubland. Norway rats were most common in subalpine shrubland and Pacific rats dominated in manuka (Leptospermum scoparium) shrubland. Analysis of micro-habitat affinities for the three species showed that ship rats were habitat generalists. Norway rats were associated with plants of damp sites. Pacific rats showed a significant positive relationship with increasing amounts of the ground cover wire rush, (Empodisma minus). Reasons for the observed habitat use on Stewart Island could include physiological adaptation to cold and wet conditions in Norway rats; the avoidance of predation or inter-specific competition by Pacific rats; and possibly preference for more structurally complex vegetation types by ship rats.
24056325|The role of backcountry huts as focal points for weed establishment and spread into New Zealand's national parks has received little attention. In this study we describe the pattern of weed spread around Takahe Valley Hut, Murchison Mountains, Fiordland National Park. Established in 1948, the hut is located at 900 m a.s.l. at the ecotone between Nothofagus forest and valley floor shrubland/grassland. We recorded the distribution of vascular plants in quadrats (110) placed by restricted randomisation around the hut, and measured relative irradiance and distance from the hut. Nine exotic species, mostly grasses, were recorded, the most frequent being Agrostis capillaris (34%). The majority of occurrences of exotic plant species were located in the immediate vicinity (less than 5 m) of the hut but two exotic species (Agrostis capillaris and Dactylis glomerata) ranged more widely. Exotic species were present in well-drained shrubland and grassland but did not extend far into Nothofagus forest or onto infertile wetlands. The percentage of exotic species in quadrats declined significantly with distance from the hut. There was no linear relationship between the percentage of exotic species and relative irradiance. When forest quadrats were excluded, the number of native species in quadrats was negatively correlated with the number of exotic species, suggesting competitive displacement of native species by exotics in non-forest habitats. Long-term persistence of most exotic species at this site depends on physical disturbance and nutrient enrichment associated with human activities at the hut site. However the maintenance of this species pool has provided sufficient propagule pressure for some exotic species to disperse into the wider area. Weed accumulation around huts can be reduced by locating huts in vegetation types that are more resistant to invasion, and maintaining facilities to eliminate local weed infestations.
24056281|The effect of honeydew density on arthropod community structure was investigated in the Nothofagus forest of Nelson Lakes National Park, New Zealand. Pitfall trapping revealed no community response to honeydew density, whereas sticky trapping showed the community composition of trunk-dwelling arthropods varied along a honeydew gradient. Mycetophilidae, Staphylinidae, Pteromalidae and Margarodidae were classified as high honeydew biased, while Diapriidae and Platygasteridae were non-honeydew biased. Arthropod distributions within a forest are not uniform, as a result of honeydew patchiness.
24055313|Making use of existing fences as ready-made exclosures, this study aimed to assess the long-term effects of cattle grazing on forest margins. Results indicated: 1) that cattle browsing and trampling has an impact on vegetation species composition, structure and regeneration; 2) that the effects of a particular grazing regime may take many decades to dissipate; and 3) that the impacts of cattle change with stock intensity. Some plant species appeared to be highly palatable to cattle and only occurred on sites without cattle. Such species included pate (Schefflera digitata), broadleaf (Griselinia littoralis), pigeonwood (Hedycarya arborea), supplejack (Ripogonum scandens), mahoe (Melicytus ramiflorus), milk tree (Streblus heterophyllus), lancewood (Pseudopanax crassifolius) and hen and chickens fern (Asplenium bulbiferum). A small group of plants appeared to regenerate better under cattle than in their absence, particularly mountain horopito (Pseudowintera colorata) and prickly shield fern (Polystichum vestitum). A few species were encouraged by cattle at one site but suppressed by them at another: kahikatea (Dacrycarpus dacrydioides), wheki (Dicksonia squarrosa), Coprosma rhamnoides and Blechnum fluviatile. The impact of cattle on most other plant species was not discernible. The results of this study, while somewhat equivocal, indicate that future grazing licences in South Westland should restrict stock to low numbers and be confined to already modified sites where damage to conservation values would be minimal.
24052606|The application of two types of model to aphid populations is discussed, with particular reference to the lime aphid (Eucallipterus tiliae L.). The role of detailed simulation models is briefly reviewed and it is shown that a model of the lime aphid developed in Britain can represent the differing population behaviour of the same species in New Zealand. A much simpler, general herbivore/plant model is then applied to the lime aphid in Britain and gives as good agreement with observed data as did the detailed simulation model.
24052817|About 30 female and juvenile Himalayan thar (Hemitragus jemlahicus) were observed over 2 years on a 200 ha study area. At dawn, thar were at low altitudes and most were feeding. They ascended during the morning to spend the middle of the day resting at high altitudes. In the afternoon they descended again, with increasing feeding activity, to reach low altitudes at dusk. The vertical movement was 450 m in summer and 150 m in winter. The proportion of the day spent feeding was highest in November-February and lowest in August-September. Resting behaviour was more frequent in March-May and August-October than at other times. The proportion of the day spent standing increased threefold during June-July. The feeding pressure during daylight on four vegetation associations showed that tall snow tussock grasslands at high altitudes were likely to be the most susceptible to modification. Lower altitude associations, such as short tussock grasslands and matagouri scrub, received more intense feeding pressure during spring, but were rarely used in winter.
24056328|The brown teal or pateke (Anas chlorotis) is an endangered endemic duck that has declined greatly throughtout its range in the last 120 years but about which there is little dietary information to inform the species' management. We studied the diet of brown teal from six populations (most data were from Great Barrier Island, with additional samples from Northland, Little Barrier Island, Kapiti Island, Mana Island and Karori Wildlife Sanctuary) using feeding observations, gut and faecal analyses. Brown teal had a diverse diet for a dabbling duck: 78 taxa were recorded, including terrestrial, freshwater and marine invertebrates, fungi, and terrestrial and freshwater vegetation. Based on gut content analysis, the most frequently occurring foods were Cyperaceae nuts, white clover leaves, cased caddisfly larvae, beetles, earthworms, gastropods and bivalves. Faecal analysis and visual observations showed marine molluscs to be abundant in the diet in intertidal areas. The use of pastures by much of the present-day population may make teal vulnerable to starvation during dry summers.
24054549|Predation of yellow-eyed penguin (Megadyptes antipodes) chicks may be reduced by removing stock around penguin breeding sites because long grass may reduce lagomorph abundance and hence small mammal predators. This study tests this hypothesis in the South Island, New Zealand. The abundance of lagomorph faeces (mainly rabbit Oryctolagus cuniculus, but some European hare Lepus europaeus) was used as an index of relative abundance of lagomorphs at 16 penguin breeding sites in winter 1991 and 37 sites in 1992/93. There was no evidence that lagomorph pellet abundance was reduced where vegetation was ungrazed. Lagomorph sign was widespread throughout ungrazed areas indicating that the entire ungrazed area and not merely the edge was used by lagomorphs. Lagomorph pellet abundance was higher on sand dunes than elsewhere. Retirement from grazing by stock may help protect and provide nesting habitat for penguins, but does not decrease lagomorph abundance close to nesting sites. It is not yet known whether high lagomorph abundance leads to increased or decreased predation on penguin chicks. The habitat should not be modified ostensibly to reduce lagomorph abundance until the effect on predation is known.
24058208|We studied the roosting ecology of the long-tailed bat (Chalinolobus tuberculatus) during the spring-autumn months from 19982002 at Hanging Rock in the highly fragmented landscape of South Canterbury, South Island, New Zealand. We compared the structural characteristics and microclimates of roost sites used by communally and solitary roosting bats with those of randomly available sites, and roosts of C. tuberculatus occupying unmodified Nothofagus forest in the Eglinton Valley, Fiordland. Roosting group sizes and roost residency times were also compared. We followed forty radio-tagged bats to 94 roosts (20% in limestone crevices, 80% in trees) at Hanging Rock. Roosts were occupied for an average of 1 day and 86% were only used once during the study period. Colony size averaged 9.8  1.1 bats (range 238) and colonies were dominated by breeding females and young. Indigenous forest, shrubland remnants and riparian zones were preferred roosting habitats. Communally roosting bats selected roosts in split trunks of some of the largest trees available. Selection of the largest available trees as roost sites is similar to behaviour of bat species occupying unmodified forested habitats. Temperatures inside 12 maternity roosts measured during the lactation period were variable. Five roosts were well insulated from ambient conditions and internal temperatures were stable, whereas the temperatures inside seven roosts fluctuated in parallel with ambient temperature. Tree cavities used by bats at Hanging Rock were significantly nearer ground level, had larger entrance dimensions, were less well insulated, and were occupied by fewer bats than roosts in the Eglinton Valley. These characteristics appear to expose their occupants to unstable microclimates and to a higher risk of threats such as predation. We suggest that roosts at Hanging Rock are of a lower quality than those in the Eglinton Valley, and that roost quality may be one of the contributory factors in the differential reproductive fitness observed in the two bat populations. The value of introduced willows (especially Salix fragilis) as bat roosts should be acknowledged. We recommend six conservation measures to mitigate negative effects of deterioration of roosting habitat: protection and enhancement of the quality of existing roosts, replanting within roosting habitat, provision of high quality artificial roosts, predator control, and education of landowners and statutory bodies.
24053586|The fish prey consumed by New Zealand fur seals (Arctocephalus forsteri) was investigated by analysis of faeces collected between February and August at sites on the east and west coasts of South Island, New Zealand. Twelve species were identified from otoliths recovered from faeces. Lanternfish (Symbolophorus sp. and Lampanyctodes hectoris), the most frequent fish prey, comprised 79% of all otoliths, followed by anchovy (Engraulis australis) at 12%, ahuru (Auchenoceros punctatus) with 3.9%, and hoki (Macruronus novaezelandiae) at 3.7%. Of these species only hoki is commercially important. Regional and seasonal differences in the proportions of species were evident, and the results are compared with those from previous studies.
24054745|There is an increasing requirement to breed durable resistances to woolly apple aphid (WAA) into apple cultivars. Genetically diverse apple plantings have been established in New Zealand with one aim to identify new sources of resistance to this pest, and also to allow the computation of parameters of genetic interest. Such computations are hindered by the uneven distribution of the pest in the orchard. The spatial distribution of WAA was investigated using local trend surfaces to examine large scale patterns, and point process analyses to check for the presence of small scale clumping. Large scale patterns in WAA distribution were found which could be attributed to the degree of exposure of the trees, and clumping was also detectable. The experimental design was found to adequately accommodate these spatial patterns. The application of the point process analysis to other ecological situations, and manners in which it could be extended, are discussed.
24052793|The distribution of banded rail habitat use in a saltmarsh was measured by recording the rate at which their footprints accumulated. The relationships between habitat use, time of day, state of the tide, and 15 environmental parameters, were investigated using multivariate analysis. Banded rails were most active in the morning and evening and immediately after a tide. They did not venture far from cover and their activity was greatest at low levels on the shore, and amongst certain vegetation types. The patterns of habitat use are consistent with the rails being most active at times and places where their prey were most readily available. The absence of banded rails from the south of the South Island may be related to the dominance of Leptocarpus similis in saltmarshes there.
24060778|Two indigenous small tree and shrub species, kanuka (Kunzea ericoides) and manuka (Leptospermum scoparium), have potential as reforestation species in New Zealand as they are forest pioneer species that can invade grassland naturally from present seed sources. The aim of this study was to determine if establishment of kanuka and manuka from seed in grassland distant from stands of these species might be constrained by lack of appropriate mycorrhizal fungi. Both species were grown in an unsterilised grassland soil from a low-productivity montane site assumed to be devoid of appropriate mycorrhizal fungi and inoculated with sterilised or unsterilised O-horizon or mineral soil from beneath three kanuka and three manuka communities expected to contain such fungi. Inoculation with unsterilised O-horizon soil improved kanuka biomass by 3692%, depending on the source of the inoculant. Inoculation did not improve manuka biomass. No ectomycorrhizal infection was observed on either kanuka or manuka in samples examined under binocular microscope. The biomass response by kanuka to inoculation may be due to introduction of more effective arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi from kanuka communities or possibly to the introduction of soil microorganisms. Testing of inoculation under field conditions will be essential to determine whether establishment of either species in grassland soil by seeding is seriously constrained by lack of appropriate mycorrhizal fungi or soil microorganisms.
24060633|Once widespread, Cook's scurvy grass (or nau, Lepidium oleraceum) is now confined to a few offshore populations. Classed as nationally endangered by the New Zealand Department of Conservation, populations of Cook's scurvy grass are threatened by a number of factors, including introduced herbivorous insect species such as the white butterfly (Pieris rapae) and white rust infection caused by the oomycete Albugo candida. In this paper, we investigate the occurrence of white butterfly on Cook's scurvy grass and possible interactions with the white rust infection on the northernmost of the Matariki Islands in the Firth of Thames, New Zealand. We found that larger host plants were more likely to be infested with white butterfly. The occurrence of white butterfly eggs and larvae also decreased as levels of white rust increased. Twenty-eight percent of the white butterfly larvae collected and reared in the laboratory were parasitised by the braconid wasp species Cotesia rubecula. We also reared a hyperparasitoid belonging to the super-family Chalcidoidea from one of the parasitoid cocoons. Further studies on the trophic interactions between Cook's scurvy grass, Albugo candida and white butterfly and its parasitoids could improve the understanding of the threats posed by plant pathogens and insect herbivores to populations of Cook's scurvy grass, which in turn may lead to new management strategies for conservation.
24053601|Collections of gannet regurgitations at most of New Zealand's gannetries allowed the identification of major components in the gannet diet and an estimate of the total annual consumption of the most important prey species. Major species were pilchard (Sardinops neopilchardus), anchovy (Engraulis australis), saury (Scomberesox saurus), and jack mackerel (Trachurus novaezelandiae).
24052767|Over a 3-year period, 1183 brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) were live-trapped in 125 ha of mixed hardwood forest and adjacent pasture in Westland, and 50 were radio-tracked for up to 14 months. Foraging movements between forest and pasture were much longer than previously reported. Twenty-eight percent of males and 18% of females denning c. 1000 m into forest were trapped on pasture at least once a year. These values were higher for possums denning closer to pasture, but dropped abruptly at distances beyond 1000 m and ceased beyond 1300 m into forest. Radio-tracking confirmed the trapping results and showed that possums travelled to and from pasture within the same night. Age had little influence on travel to pasture, but males were twice as likely to travel as females. Pasture travel peaked in summer and autumn, coinciding with maximum pasture growth. Possums usually travelled less than 300 m beyond the forest edge, but foraged occasionally to 1300 m. Possums moved vertically rather than horizontally across steep terrain, thereby minimizing travel between different food sources in the vertically stratified forest. Forest residents travelling furthest were those with dens 600-1000 m into forest. Consequently, control of possums in Tb-problem areas will be required over forest at least 1 km in from forest-pasture margins. Changes in farm management that reduce possum-cattle interactions are also desirable.
24060741|Introduced mammalian predators are a major threat to New Zealand's wildlife, including bats. Controlling these predators using traps and poison baits can reduce their impact on bat populations. However, lesser short-tailed bats (Mystacina tuberculata) are potentially susceptible to toxins used for pest control in New Zealand forests because of their broad diet and habit of feeding on the ground. Therefore, the risk of secondary poisoning should always be assessed before new toxins are used in areas inhabited by lesser short-tailed bats. We measured survivorship of a sample of lesser short-tailed bats monitored before, during and after deployment of the first-generation anticoagulant toxin pindone in the Eglinton Valley, Fiordland, during late winter and summer 20092010. Pindone-laced cereal baits were deployed in bait stations from September to late December 2009 in an effort to control rats (Rattus spp.). Communal roosts of the one lesser short-tailed bat colony in the valley are located entirely within or immediately adjacent to the area poisoned. Minimum number alive was determined for the sampled bat population after monitoring the occupancy of colonial roosts by individually PIT-tagged bats through the study period. Survivorship of bats was high throughout the monitoring period, with 319 of 322 bats (99%) recorded in the pre-monitoring period (August) known to be alive in October 2009 and 312 of 322 bats (97%) known to still be alive in January 2010. We conclude that lesser short-tailed bats did not consume pindone baits and that their survival was probably enhanced by rat control in the study area.
24052787|High deer numbers in northern Fiordland in the 1960s significantly changed forest understorey composition. The density of woody plants in the understorey was reduced in some areas by as much as 50%, and preferred plants became less abundant than those seldom eaten. However, the impact of deer and wapiti varied between forest types. Seral communities and silver beech forests at low altitudes in the unmodified Milford/Bligh Sound area had high proportions of preferred plants in the understorey, and these were the types that were more modified by browsing pressure than those growing at high altitudes or on poor soils. A resurvey of the Wapiti, Doon, and Glaisnock catchments in 1984/85 showed that densities of woody plants in the forest understorey had increased on average by at least 75% after a c. 80% reduction in deer numbers since earlier surveys (1969 and 1975). Woody food plants highly preferred by deer were rare in most forest types in 1969, but were present in all types by 1984 and had increased in density by as much as 300-400%. However, recovery was still largely confined to understorey tiers <75 cm high and most of the recovery had occurred since 1975. Proportions of highly preferred species in the understorey of these forests had not reached those recorded in unmodified forests in the Milford/Bligh Sound area in 1969.
24058098|We describe the recovery of an 88-m2 area of sooty shearwater breeding habitat on Northeast Island, The Snares, New Zealand, during the eight breeding seasons after it was completely destroyed by excavation in December 1996. Burrow entrance density did not differ between the destroyed site and three comparison sites one year after the event. We detected breeding attempts of shearwaters in the season following disturbance, but burrow occupant density recovered more slowly, perhaps because the overall population density was declining over the same period. Burrow occupant density did not differ between the destroyed site and comparison sites within five breeding seasons of disturbance.
24052391|Foods of the Australian Brush-tailed opossum, Trichosurus vulpecula, were identified from stomach contents of 360 opossums collected from May 1975 to May 1976 in Ashley State Forest, Canterbury, New Zealand. Plant species eaten were identified with the aid of reference cuticles prepared from known plant species collected from the study area. Thirty different foods were identified, but only seven were eaten extensively. These were broom (Cytisus scoparius) leaves and flowers, blackberry (Rubus fructicosus) leaves and fruit, Pinus radiata pollen cones, gorse (Ulex europaeus) flowers, and grasses. The opossums showed seasonal preferences for certain food species. Pine pollen was preferred during late winter and spring, blackberry leaves during summer, and grasses and seeds during autumn. Broom leaves formed a large proportion of the diet in all seasons. Huhu beetles (Prionoplus reticularis) and nematoceran larvae were also eaten. There was no evidence in Ashley Forest of opossums causing economic damage to the pine trees.
24055317|In New Zealand, as elsewhere, research on rare species has been dominated by autecological studies of individual threatened species. Limitations of this approach are that it involves no comparison with related common species which may have similar traits, and that the minimal sample size prevents generalisation about causes and consequences of rarity. We report on experimentally determined growth and reproductive traits of 10 rare and common Acaena (Rosaceae) species from two taxonomic sections (sect. Ancistrum and sect. Microphyllae). We examined the relationship between rarity or commonness and relative growth rate, mode of vegetative expansion, morphology/presentation of reproductive structures and reproductive allocation. Rarity and commonness were defined according to geographic range size, measured as the number of 10-km grid squares containing at least one record of the species. There were tendencies across both taxonomic sections for species with large range size to have higher relative growth rates and in section Microphyllae, faster lateral expansion. Among section Ancistrum species, common species tended to produce inflorescences for a shorter period and held their capitula higher above the canopy, but other reproductive attributes showed little association with range size. In section Microphyllae all reproductive traits tended to be positively associated with range size. This was mainly due to the single very common species having high fecundity. The lack of strong patterns among our results may reflect insufficient sample size or that the rare species represent different types of rarity.
24052392|Weddell seals (Leptonychotes weddelli) have been killed annually since 1956 at Scott Base, McMurdo Sound, Antarctica, to provide food for the resident husky dogs. Between 1970 and 1976 personnel of Antarctic Division, DSIR, killed 399 seals, recorded information on their physical characteristics and collected jaws and reproductive organs (females only). Data made available to the Zoology Department, University of Canterbury, for analysis included 321 seal data-sheets, 186 lower jaws and 103 sets of female reproductive organs. The overall sex ratio of seals killed was 1:1. Mean ages of males ranged from 6.75 years (1972) to 13 years (1975), with an overall mean of 10.4 years; mean ages of females ranged from 7.82 years (1973) to 12 years (1974) with an overall mean of 9.87 years. In the four seasons with adequate sample sizes (15+ animals) the proportion of animals 10 years and older in the samples ranged from 28% (1972) to 65.7% (1976). The mean body lengths of males declined from 260.63 cm in 1970 to 239.8 cm in 1976. Lengths of females fluctuated from year to year between values of 258.25 cm (1974) and 249.28 cm (1975). The thickness of subcutaneous fat on the chest of males in the years 1974-76 ranged from 4.43 cm to 5.16 cm; that of females varied from 4.98 cm to 5.78 cm. The overall pregnancy rate was 65%, with a range from 55% (1974) to 76.5% (1976). Comparison with data from seal kills in 1957, 1962-64 and 1966-68 (Stirling, 1971a) suggests that in the 1970-76 period the Weddell seal population of eastern McMurdo Sound was close to stability, but fluctuating slightly from year to year, probably in response to changes in availability of food and other resources.
24052812|Ecological restoration is defined as active intervention and management to restore biotic communities that were formerly present at a particular place and time. Examples are given from both New Zealand and overseas of a variety of different restoration projects. The possibility is raised of replacing some animal species extinct in New Zealand with related living forms from other countries. The arguments for devoting resources to ecological restoration include creation of educational assets, aesthetic benefits, and scientific opportunities. They also include the maintenance of native plants and animals for environmental repair and enhancement work, and genetic conservation at the species and infraspecific levels. Thus ecological restoration is a means of restoring biological diversity to depleted landscapes and, as a consequence, can increase the variety of ways in which people appreciate nature. Ecological restoration of lost biotic communities should be seen as complementary to the protection of those remaining: both activities are needed in a comprehensive approach to nature conservation.
24058150|Leptospermum is one of only three New Zealand genera that are colonised by ectomycorrhizal (EM) fungi, and L. scoparium is one of the very few New Zealand species that can be colonised by both arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) and EM fungi. This study examined AM and EM colonisation on L. scoparium growing within AM grassland ecosystems or adjoining Nothofagus forest in the Rakaia catchment, Canterbury. Very low AM colonisation was found (<4%) in all samples, while EM colonisation ranged from 7 to 55% of root length colonised. These results contradict an earlier report that L. scoparium is mostly colonised by AM fungi. We suggest the montane environment of the study sites would favour EM rather than AM colonisation. EM colonisation was higher in mature plants than in saplings. Lowest EM colonisation (715%) was recorded on root samples that were from either young or mature plants occurring as separate individuals in grassland distant from other indigenous EM species, while highest colonisation (4955%) was recorded on samples from mature closed canopy L. scoparium stands, irrespective of distance from other indigenous EM sources.
24054513|Possum leaf dief from 1976 to 1989 in the Orongorongo Valley was compared with the diet recorded from four previous years, using faecal analysis. There were large differences in the proportions of species eaten in different seasons and between different years. There was little overall change in the proportion of the main diet tree species, Metrosideros robusta and Weinmannia racemosa, and seasonal increases or declines in one were usually balanced by opposite changes in the other. However, the results of a study of forest composition in the same area showed that living stems of both species declined substantially in abundance, the former mostly before 1978. Melicytus ramiflorus maintained both an important contribution to the diet and its stem density in the forest. The lianes Metrosideros fulgens and Ripogonum scandens both increased their proportion of the diet, but no data were available on their abundance in the study area. At present browse levels, Weinmannia racemosa will become extinct locally, and Metrosideros robusta more rare, especially if drought and higher than average possum densities coincide. Given their large contribution to possum diet, the decline of these species will have a significant effect on possum feeding habits, including increased browsing pressure on Melicytus ramiflorus, Ripogonum scandens and Metrosideros fulgens. The trend for formerly less palatable tree species to replace those previously important in the diet will continue, with consequent changes in forest species composition.
24053653|Vegetation on 5 km (c. 100 ha) of the braided bed of the Orongorongo River, Wellington, was sampled in March from 1973 to 1990. The riverbed has become aggraded since an earthquake in 1855. Surface water covered little of the riverbed; Callitriche stagnalis was the only common vascular aquatic plant. Most grasses and dicot herbs were adventive. The scabweed Raoulia tenuicaulis was the commonest dicot. The extent of plant cover was measured on 300 circular plots (radius 1.5 m); it ranged between years from 5% to 22%, depending on the severity of floods. The number of plots with little vegetation varied widely, independently of plant cover. Plots with a sandy substrate had most plant cover. Much wind-blown sand accumulated beneath established vegetation. Patterns of early succession, which relied on available seed, were largely dictated by floods and droughts. If not disturbed for 20-25 years, succession invariably led to a temporary dominance of kanuka (Kunzea ericoides), with or without manuka (Leptospermum scoparium).
24054650|Assays for the toxin sodium monofluoroacetate (compound 1080) were undertaken on arthropods collected from toxic baits after a brushtail possum (Trichosorus vulpecula) control operation in Nothofagus forest in central North Island, New Zealand. The 1080 concentrations measured (mean 57 g g1, max 130 g g1) are considerably higher than those reported by other researchers who collected arthropods randomly after control operations. These data, together with published information on sensitivities to 1080, as well as diet and consumption rates, were used to calculate the median lethal doses of arthropods that have fed on 1080 baits for a number of vertebrate insectivores found in Nothofagus forest. The results indicate small insectivores that feed on, or close to, the ground (e.g., tomtit Petroica macrocephala, robin P. australis, hedge sparrow Prunella modularis, and the short-tailed bat Mystacina tuberculata) may be vulnerable to secondary poisoning. For instance, a tomtit will receive the median lethal dose of 1080 from 1.32 g (i.e., 14.7% of its daily food intake) of arthropods containing 57 g g1 of 1080. Because of their greater sensitivity to 1080 poisoning, bats are at much greater risk; a short-tailed bat will receive the median lethal dose of 1080 from as little as 0.04 g (0.7% of its daily food intake) of arthropods containing 57 g g1 of 1080.
24055301|By summarising ecological publications over the last 30 years, this paper provides an assessment of the amount and focus of New Zealand ecological research with respect to land tenure. While the number of published articles that deal with private land has increased over the last 30 years, the majority of New Zealand ecological research publications (65%) still focuses on public conservation lands, despite these only accounting for c. 30% of the land area. Even with the increasing emphasis in ecological research on private land there is still a need to better understand both the distribution of indigenous biodiversity and the interactions that occur between land management and indigenous biodiversity on private land. Such research is essential if we are to sustain indigenous biodiversity in lowland New Zealand.
24060704|Stoats (Mustela erminea) are a significant pest in New Zealand. A critical aspect of their management is the ability to identify individuals in order to estimate abundance or to determine the origin of residual animals after control, particularly as the trap-shy nature of stoats reduces the utility of trapping to gain this information. We investigated non-invasive 'capture' methods as an alternative to live-trapping or removal methods for estimating stoat abundance. First we determined whether sufficient variability exists at six microsatellite DNA loci to reliably identify individuals in the potentially bottlenecked, introduced stoat populations of New Zealand. In December 2001 we conducted a 7-night pilot field experiment using a modified hair-tube design, where we obtained a total of 64 hair samples. Sufficient DNA was extracted from 36 hair follicles to genotype a total of 51 samples. DNA quality declined if samples were left in the field for several nights before being collected, and daily checks proved best for maximising the quality of DNA obtained, while minimising the risk of multiple 'captures' of stoats. Conclusions were that non-invasive molecular sampling is likely to be a viable technique for estimating population density of stoats in New Zealand beech forest but that additional variable loci are required.
24054675|Mountain stone weta (Hemideina maori) on the Rock and Pillar Range in the South Island, New Zealand, are found primarily in cavities under flat rocks on isolated outcrops or 'tors'. We marked 66 adult weta on one tor and 30 adults on an adjacent tor and recorded their location during the summer and for the following three years to obtain baseline data on survival, longevity, dispersal, and movement within tors. It was not uncommon for adult weta to live for two to three years. Most marked weta were resighted at least once, usually under the same rock. Few weta moved further than the rock adjacent to where they were first captured and only one dispersed to a neighbouring tor. On one tor, a relatively stable group of 68 females and 2 males was resighted during most of the summer period under one large rock. An analysis of our mark-recapture methodology and results indicates that H. maori may be an appropriate species for investigation population structure in a metapopulation context as well as local mate competition.
24060617|Mycorrhizal colonisation of Douglas-fir and Corsican pine seedlings in soil from knuka and mnuka dominated shrublands in Canterbury was studied using a bait plant technique. Soil cores were collected from 10 sites of each shrubland, transferred to a glasshouse, and sown with seed of both tree species. Mycorrhizal colonisation was examined after 19 weeks' growth. Overall, seedlings of Douglas-fir were larger than those of Corsican pine, but the amount of Corsican pine seedlings that were colonised (56%) was about twice that of Douglas-fir (29%). Across the sites, 761% of Douglas-fir and 1681% of Corsican pine seedlings had mycorrhizas. Colonisation of the two tree species was correlated in soil cores from knuka stands, but not from mnuka stands. Colonisation was significantly greater in knuka than mnuka stands in Douglas-fir, but not in Corsican pine. knuka stands were of a lower overall elevation than mnuka stands and had higher levels of soil available phosphorus. Both factors may have contributed to the greater mycorrhizal colonisation of Douglas-fir in knuka stands. Differences in colonisation between sites could be partially explained by the proximity of sources of spores of mycorrhizal fungi. It is concluded that low numbers of mycorrhizal propagules may constrain mycorrhizal formation in environments distant from a spore source, but are ultimately unlikely to preclude it, or limit successful seedling establishment.
24053183|Seedlings of fifteen species of shrubs and small trees, commonly found in open sites and early stages of secondary succession, were grown in a glasshouse under light intensities of 16% and 66% full daylight, and their growth parameters (height, number of leaves, dry weight, mean relative growth rate) recorded. Three species from open habitats, Coprosma robusta and Dodonaea viscosa, and an adventive shrub, Crataegus monogyna, had the highest mean relative growth rates in 66% daylight and 16% daylight, but their ranking for other parameters (e.g. height) was variable. Acer pseudoplatanus and Plagianthus regius had particularly fast height growth. Carpodetus serratus was the fastest growing species of early successional vegetation on weakly to moderately leached soils, and it grew as well in 16% daylight as in 66% daylight. Many species had significantly faster height growth in 16% daylight, e.g., Melicytus ramiflorus and Pittosporum tenuifolium, and several species had faster height growth rates overall, in 16% daylight, e.g., Myrsine australis, Melicytus ramiflorus, and Pittosporum eugenioides. Griselinia littoralis, from moderately to strongly leached soils, had the slowest height growth rates in both light levels. All species had lower root:shoot ratios and a greater proportion of dry weight in leaves in 16% daylight. Such responses may contribute to the slow establishment of these species in secondary vegetation experiencing summer drought in the seedlings' rooting zone. Growth patterns are also likely to be adaptations to factors other than light, particularly soil fertility. There is some evidence that seedlings of the earliest successional and less shade-tolerant species, especially those from weakly leached soils, grew more rapidly than those from later-successional vegetation and edaphically harsher sites. Some shade-tolerant species benefit from slight shade which concurs with their later entry into secondary vegetation.
24055293|The National Vegetation Survey (NVS) databank is designed to safeguard the investment of millions of dollars spent over the last 50 years collecting, computerising and checking New Zealand vegetation data and to optimise the potential knowledge gains from these data. Data such as these can be synthesised across a range of spatial and temporal scales, allow novel ecological questions to be considered, and can underpin land management and legal reporting obligations. The NVS databank builds largely on the base of data collected under the auspices of the New Zealand Forest Service from the 1940s to 1987. In more recent years, it has incorporated data from Protected Natural Area (PNA) surveys and from new and remeasured plots in a range of ecosystems collected by staff of, among others, the Department of Conservation, Landcare Research, regional councils and universities. The databank currently stores data from approximately 14 000 permanent plots, 52 000 reconnaissance descriptions and PNA plots, and 14 000 timber volume plots measured in the 1940s and 1950s. Ecosystems that are best represented are grasslands in montane and alpine areas and indigenous forests. Geographic coverage is widespread but patchy. As the NVS databank continues to develop and grow, a range of data management issues are being addressed. These include (i) developing mechanisms to meet the needs of both data users and data providers and incentives to encourage individuals and organisations to deposit data into the databank, (ii) ensuring that metadata are adequate to allow raw data to be interpreted, and (iii) ensuring that the data stored meet set quality standards. In the future, the databank will take advantage of changing technology to best meet the needs of data users and providers. Further information about the NVS databank can be obtained from www.landcare.cri.nz/science/nvs.
24054547|Heteroblasty, changes in vegetative phenotype during ontogeny, is unusually common in the New Zealand flora. Some feature(s) unique to the New Zealand situation must have influenced the evolution of this strategy. Similarities were examined between the ontogenetic changes in phenotype and growth strategy in Elaeocarpus hookerianus, Carpodetus serratus and Pseudopanax crassifolius. Variation in hypothesised light capture efficiency of juvenile and adult forms can be related to changes in the light environment that these growth forms experience. Heteroblasty is hypothesised to have evolved as a result of the change from a low light intensity environment below the canopy of high altitude conifer/broad-leaved forests, to a high light intensity environment above the canopy. The differences in architecture between juvenile E. hookerianus and C. serratus on the one hand, and P. crassifolius on the other hand, are likely to be related to their adaptation to heterogeneous moderate light intensity and homogeneous low light intensity, respectively. The divaricate form characteristic of many New Zealand shrubs may have arisen following the development of heteroblastic trees with a divaricate juvenile, and the subsequent loss of the adult state. This paper provides hypotheses which future research can scientifically test.
24054671|Rakiura Maori annually harvest sooty shearwater (Puffinus griseus) chicks from islands in Foveaux Strait and adjacent to Stewart Island, New Zealand. Chick availability and the number of chicks harvested were estimated during the 1994 and 1995 seasons on Poutama (Evening Island). Burrow entrance densities estimated using circular plots were significantly higher in 1994 (0.45  0.03 m2) than in 1995 (0.41  0.03 m2). A similar burrow entrance density (0.45  0.04 m2) was obtained in 1995 using a transect sampling technique. The number of usable burrows estimated using circular plots in 1994 and 1995 was 387 508 and 337 732 respectively. Of these, chicks occupied 24%  6% in 1994 and 29%  4% in 1995. It was estimated the muttonbirders harvested 13-24% (15 722) of the chicks present on Poutama in 1994 and 17-28% (22 092) in 1995. Muttonbirders targeted areas of the island with higher chick density and less fallen stems. Excluding chicks rejected by the muttonbirder ( 750g), harvested chicks were significantly heavier and had less down than randomly encountered chicks. If larger heavier chicks are more likely to return and breed, then the preference for these chicks by muttonbirders would affect predictions of harvest impacts.
24052603|In a rock shelter on Tawhiti Rahi, one of the Poor Knights Islands, northern New Zealand, shells of Placostylus hongii (some of which are broken and charred) occur in a hearth and on the floor in association with adze-worked wood. This provides conclusive evidence that the flax snail was eaten by the prehistoric Maori. While some may have been eaten raw, it seems most Placostylus were cooked on the embers of a fire, then the shell broken open and the meat extracted. Powell (1938) suggested that the populations of P. hongii on the Poor Knights and some other northern offshore islands were accidentally introduced there in leaf mould by the prehistoric Maori when transplanting karakas from the mainland. This previously unrecorded exploitation of Placostylus for food, however, provides an incentive for the Maoris to purposely transfer these snails to the offshore islands and possibly also around other parts of Northland.
24054667|Changes in the vegetation of Flat Top Hill, a highly modified conservation area in semi-arid Central Otago, New Zealand, are described four years after the cessation of sheep and rabbit grazing. Unusually moist weather conditions coincide with the four-year period of change in response to the cessation of grazing. Between 1993 and 1997, the average richness and diversity (H') of species increased, and the average proportion of native species decreased significantly. The vegetation was significantly richer in exotic annual and perennial grass species, exotic perennial forbs, exotic woody species and native tussock grasses in 1997 than in 1993. Eight response guilds of species are identified. Most "remnant" native shrubs and forbs were stable, in that they remained restricted to local refugia and showed little change in local frequency. However, taller native grass species increased, some locally, and others over wide environmental ranges. Rare native annual forbs and several native perennial species from "induced" xeric communities decreased, and this may be a consequence of competition from exotic perennial grasses in the absence of grazing. The invasive exotic herb Sedum acre decreased in abundance between 1993 and 1997, but several other prominent exotic species increased substantially in range and local frequency over a wide range of sites. Exotic woody species, and dense, sward-forming grasses are identified as potential threats to native vegetation recovery.
24052774|The diet of the house mouse (Mus musculus L.) was studied in an exotic pine (Pinus radiata D. Don) and an indigenous kauri (Agathis australis Salisb.) forest near Auckland from 1976-1977. Stomach contents of 594 and 117 mice collected by snap trapping in the Woodhill and Hunua Forest respectively revealed an omnivorous diet consisting largely of adult arthropods, lepidopteran larvae and seeds. In the Woodhill pine forest adult arthropods and lepidopteran larvae were the main foods throughout the year, while seed generally became important between spring and autumn. In the Hunua kauri forest, adult arthropods and seed were important foods all year round. Kauri seed largely prevailed in the stomach contents during April and May. Predation by mice on birds' nests was not evident.
24052822|The diet of the Stewart Island brown kiwi at Scollay's Flat, southern Stewart Island was determined by analysis of 146 faeces collected during 11 field-trips from September 1982 to October 1984. A variety of invertebrates and a small quantity of plant matter were represented in the faeces. The four invertebrate groups excluding Annelida, that contributed most soft tissue dry matter to the sample were Lepidoptera (36%), Coleoptera (21%), Arachnida (19%) and Hemiptera (10%). Circumstantial evidence suggests that the habit of the Stewart Island brown kiwi of foraging by day is partly a response to low invertebrate biomass in the island's nutrient-poor soils.
24060896|Factors influencing detection probability in line transect distance sampling were investigated to estimate the abundance of four common farmland birds on 12 sheep & beef farms in the South Island of New Zealand. Our primary aim was to evaluate the necessity of employing distance methods to correct for heterogeneity in detection probability. Detections of skylark Alauda arvensis, blackbird Turdus merula, song thrush Turdus philomelos, and Australian magpie Gymnorhina tibicen were recorded using ten 500-m unbounded line transects on each of 910 visits, and modelled using multiple covariate distance sampling methods. Covariates of detectability played a strong role in model fitting, but showed few consistent directional trends within species. Increased woody vegetation cover on farms greatly decreased detectability, while few seasonal or geographical effects were found. No detectability differences were found between farms using certified organic, integrated management or conventional farming systems, indicating that bird population dynamics might be compared between systems using simpler index counts. However, unless detectability parameters can be standardised to a high degree within a survey, we recommend the use of analysis methods that incorporate heterogeneity in detection probability.
24060763|Understanding the evolutionary history and biogeography of the New Zealand alpine flora has been impeded by the lack of an integrated model of geomorphology and climate events during the Late Miocene, Pliocene and Pleistocene. A new geobiological model is presented that integrates rock uplift age, rate of uplift and the resulting summit elevations in the Southern Alps (South Island) during the last 8.0 million years with a climate template using the natural gamma radiation pattern from the eastern South Island Ocean Drilling Program Site 1119 that covers the past 3.9 million years. This model specifically defines the average treeline in relation to mountain height, allowing predictions as to the timing of the formation of the alpine zone and other open habitats. This model predicts open habitats such as rock bluffs, tussock grasslands and riverbeds would have been available from about 4.03.0 Ma, coinciding with the initiation of summit uplift and a cooling climate providing an opportunity for the evolution of generalist alpine and open-habitat herbs and shrubs. Alpine habitats began to form at about 1.9 Ma and were a permanent feature of the Southern Alps from about 0.95 Ma. Specialist alpine plants confined to alpine habitats can have evolved only within this period once the alpine zone was persistent and widespread. Bog habitats are likely to date from the Late Miocene (c. 6.0 Ma), and the specialist bog species would have evolved from this time. Molecular-clock dates for DNA sequences from species of specialist alpine habitats, generalist open habitats, and bog habitats are consistent with predictions made on the basis of the model.
24056427|The exotic sand-binder Ammophila arenaria (marram grass) has displaced the native sedge Desmoschoenus spiralis (pingao or pikao) from many of New Zealand's coastal dunes. This study explores the possible role of drought as a mechanism promoting marram invasion and pingao displacement. The response of the two sandbinders to conditions of increasing soil water deficit was compared in a four-week pot trial. Water potential, relative water content and stomatal conductance were measured every 34 days on randomly selected individuals from a control and two drought treatments. Desmoschoenus exhibited significant signs of water stress within eight days, while Ammophila did not show significant signs of stress until day 18. Only 5% of Desmoschoenus individuals recovered after four weeks without water, compared with 80% of Ammophila. Although pot trials have limited applicability, these results suggest that Ammophila is relatively tolerant of desiccation compared with Desmoschoenus. This may give Ammophila a competitive advantage over Desmoschoenus during drought events, potentially resulting in the displacement of the native sedge.
24060841|Faecal pellet counts are commonly used as indices of lagomorph abundance but uncertainty over variation in decay rates among sites has led to most researchers recommending the use of pellet accumulation rates in previously cleared plots rather than the simpler and quicker method of counting uncleared plots. We use data from cleared and uncleared 0.1-m2 brown hare pellet plots at six sites in the central North Island of New Zealand to test the reliability of the two methods. The sites varied considerably in hare pellet density and also varied in altitude and rainfall, but the initial cleared count was extremely tightly correlated with the subsequent pellet accumulation rate (r = 0.987) suggesting there is minimal bias from differential decay rates in uncleared plot counts. Our results show that the simpler and less time-consuming uncleared-plot method is an adequate index of hare density across a range of hare densities and climates and is not unduly biased by differential decay rates. This should simplify the work of land managers interested in assessing relative abundance. At one site (the area round Manson Hut on the Kaweka Range) where the plots were followed for a year in a variety of habitat types, there were strong seasonal changes in hare abundance (peaking in summer and declining through winter), and strong habitat preferences for exotic grasslands and grasslandherbfield mixes, while pure herbfield, and particularly rocky scree and southern beech forest were not favoured. We estimated that based on published defecation rates of hares, population densities at our six sites varied from 0.03 to 3.93 hares per hectare and that they consumed between 1.4 and 188 kg ha1 of biomass annually.
24055334|: This paper examines, theoretically, how dispersal affects the viability of brown kiwi populations in protected areas of different size. Brown kiwi are threatened by introduced mammalian predators in mainland forests and are likely to persist only in managed forests where predators are controlled. In each protected area, the kiwi population will function as a net source, with an outflow of juveniles into the adjoining forest and minimal backflow into the reserve. Computer simulations show the minimum area of forest required for population viability increases non-linearly as the mean dispersal distance of juveniles increases. Preliminary measurements of the mean dispersal distance of brown kiwi in the wild suggest kiwi populations are unlikely to be viable in protected areas of less than 10 000 ha. Our estimate of the forest area requirement for viable populations of brown kiwi agrees with those derived by earlier workers using biogeographic techniques.
24054544|Predator-free offshore islands play an important role in the conservation of many of New Zealand's endemic species. Takahe (Porphyrio mantelli) have small populations established on four offshore islands and although hatching success is lower than that of the wild mainland population in Fiordland, juvenile and adult survival is high and populations are growing exponentially. Accurate estimates of home range size and potential carrying capacities are therefore essential for the future management of the population as a whole. The mean home range size of takahe pairs in one study population on Mana Island (217 ha) was 2.8  1.9 ha. The island was assessed for current and maximum available area for takahe and the potential carrying capacity was estimated at 22 - 53 pairs. Current and maximum available areas were also used to calculate carrying capacities on each of three other islands using two different estimates of mean home range size for Maud Island (7 - 34 pairs) and Kapiti Island (5 - 33 pairs) and one estimate of home range size for Tiritiri Matangi Island (25 pairs). A model of the population growth of takahe on islands predicted that estimated carrying capacities would be reached between 1997 and 2009. The urgency of planning to make use of the considerable potential of island populations of takahe is stressed.
24058178|Determining whether animals select some habitats over others provides basic information about how animals meet their requirements for survival and reproduction. Habitat selection is therefore an important component of conservation research. Studies involving the release and establishment of threatened species on island refuges can be particularly insightful because breeding pairs should be able to select habitat of the highest quality within the range availabel. This study uses GIS technology to investigate the spatial distribution of breeding territories in relation to overall habitat availability of two threatened passerines, South Island saddlebacks (Philesturnus carunculatus carunculatus) and Stewart Island robins (Petroica australis rakiura) two years after their release onto predator-free Ulva Island. Both species established breeding territories around the periphery of the island in coastal forest fringe habitat and away from mature forest in the interior of the island. Compositional analysis suggested that both species prefer dense, fringe-type habitat with open ground cover and deep litter layers and avoid more mature forests, especially with moss cover. Thus habitat structure is likely to be more important for both species than plant-species composition. However, the possibility exists that the preference of coastal fringe habitat could represent an 'ecological trap', where habitat preference does not correspond to better quality habitat in terms of reproductive fitness. It will be useful to continue monitoring saddlebacks and robins to obtain data on survival and fecundity as the density of birds increases, and breeding pairs are forced to establish territories in what is presently perceived to be less preferred habitat in the interior part of the island.
24053584|The amount of conspicuous canopy dieback in all central Westland southern rata-kamahi forests east of the Alpine Fault, between 500 m altitude and treeline, was assessed and mapped from aerial photographs taken in 1984-85 and verified by aerial reconnaissance of selected areas in 1988. At least 20% of all canopy trees, predominantly southern rata (Metrosideros umbellata) and Hall's totara (Podocarpus hallii), were dead in 1984-85. Major catchments with their headwaters east of the Alpine Fault comprised 78% of the study area and were worst affected (5%-44% canopy mortality). Because affected trees decay and eventually disappear from the canopy, the extent of visible dieback underestimated total canopy depletion, particularly where mortality occurred more than c. 15 years ago. Geographical variation in canopy dieback reflected the intensity and duration of browsing by the introduced brush-tailed possum (inferred from patterns of invasion from their liberation sites) and the influences of forest composition and timing of dieback. Although 29% of the forests showed light dieback (<10% mortality), only 11% had not experienced heavier past dieback and could be classified as having canopies largely unmodified by possums. Such widespread and continuing forest depletion, and declining possum control effort over the last decade, indicate the urgent need for a coordinated rata-kamahi forest conservation strategy, involving long-term possum control and monitoring in representative tracts.
24056159|Has the science of ecology fulfilled the promises made by the originators of ecological science at the start of the last century? What should ecology achieve? Have good policies for environmental management flowed out of ecological science? These important questions are rarely discussed by ecologists working on detailed studies of individual systems. Until we decide what we wish to achieve as ecologists we cannot define progress toward those goals. Ecologists desire to achieve an understanding of how the natural world operates, how humans have modified the natural world, and how to alleviate problems arising from human actions. Ecologists have made impressive gains over the past century in achieving these goals, but this progress has been uneven. Some sub-disciplines of ecology are well developed empirically and theoretically, while others languish for reasons that are not always clear. Fundamental problems can be lost to view as ecologists fiddle with unimportant pseudo-problems. Bandwagons develop and disappear with limited success in addressing problems. The public demands progress from all the sciences, and as time moves along and problems get worse, more rapid progress is demanded. The result for ecology has too often been poor, short-term science and poor management decisions. But since the science is rarely repeated and the management results may be a generation or two down the line, it is difficult for the public or for scientists to decide how good or bad the scientific advice has been. In ecology over the past 100 years we have made solid achievements in behavioural ecology, population dynamics, and ecological methods, we have made some progress in understanding community and ecosystem dynamics, but we have made less useful progress in developing theoretical ecology, landscape ecology, and natural resource management. The key to increasing progress is to adopt a systems approach with explicit hypotheses, theoretical models, and field experiments on a scale defined by the problem. With continuous feedback between problems, possible solutions, relevant theory and experimental data we can achieve our scientific goals.
24056163|The influence of micro-habitat on stoat (Mustela erminea) and rat (Rattus rattus) capture success was explored using trapping data collected from large scale predator control operations at the Okarito and Moehau Kiwi (Apteryx spp.) sanctuaries. Generalised linear models were used to explore the relationship between micro-habitat predictors and predator kill trapping records from individual trap sites. Our results suggest that micro-habitat information can provide useful predictors of rat and stoat capture success. Evidence from other studies and the current trapping regime provided a reasonable explanation for why some micro-habitat variables were or were not significantly associated with capture success. However, model complexity and the subjective trapping layout made interpretation of some variables challenging. Model results varied considerably between sanctuaries for the same species. We recommend reducing the number of micro-habitat variables to better reflect biological mechanisms; where possible recording variables continuously; nesting small-scale spatial variables within large-scale spatial variables; and standardising micro-habitat variables to allow model comparisons between trapping areas. Future research also needs to disentangle the effects of trapping edge and biased topographical layout from trap capture success. Good study design would resolve many of these problems. Results should help generate new and/or prioritise existing hypotheses for more focused research in the future.
24060667|A common question that arises when considering the results from a well-designed sampling programme for a rare or invasive species is: 'Sampling has failed to detect a species that could have been present, so can we calculate the probability that it truly was absent during the sampling period?' Noting that this invokes a Bayesian view of 'probability', which therefore must be accepted if the question is to be answered in the affirmative, we present a method of addressing it.
24066768|Habitat use of a forest bird community was studied in temperate rainforests in South Westland, New Zealand between 1983 and 1985. This paper examines foraging methods, feeding stations and seasonal variations in the availability and use of food types and provides a brief review of the subject. The forest bird community was comprised of a large number of apparently generalist feeders and few dietary specialists. However, the degree of foraging specialisation should not be viewed only in relation to the food types consumed. The 18 species studied differed from each other in the number of plant species used, their preferred feeding stations and method of feeding. Most importantly, the omnivorous birds exhibited varying degrees of sequential specialisation in their diets as they switched between specific food sources from season to season. The information on foraging provides the first step towards predicting the impacts of logging important food trees.
24060742|Host bark traits are known to affect the characteristics of epiphyte communities in forests worldwide; however, few investigations of such relationships have been undertaken in New Zealand forests. By examining the trunk epiphyte communities on four co-occurring forest tree species (Agathis australis, Dacrydium cupressinum, Knightia excelsa and Vitex lucens) representing a range of bark characteristics, we sought evidence that bark traits may shape these communities. Sampling was conducted on tree trunks in the Waitakere and Hunua ranges in the Auckland Region. As expected, the rough but lightly shedding bark of Vitex lucens was found to support many epiphytes, whereas the coarsely flaking bark surface of Dacrydium cupressinum supported few epiphytes. Conversely, despite bark with a smooth texture that sheds in large flakes, and contrary to the suggestions of previous authors, Agathis australis trunks were found to support the greatest numbers of epiphytes and this species was one of the most frequent epiphyte hosts. The individual epiphytes found on Agathis australis, however, were significantly smaller and more appressed to the trunk than those on the other trees, and species composition differed from the other host species.
24056364|Recent work at several central South Island sites has shown that the bird-pollinated mistletoe Peraxilla tetrapetala (Loranthaceae) is extensively pollen-limited. We studied the diet, time-budget, and densities of its principal pollinator, bellbirds (Anthornis melanura, Meliphagidae), at Craigieburn to find out what aspect of bellbird ecology may be limiting pollination. Direct observations of bellbird diets showed that they are annual generalists on invertebrates (diet range 22 - 85% of food items) and honeydew (diet range 2 - 45%), and concentrate seasonally on mistletoe fruit (18 - 60%) and mistletoe nectar (27 - 58%) when available. The bellbirds at Craigieburn are more insectivorous than New Zealand's other two honeyeaters (tui and stitchbirds). In general, bellbirds are most similar to the short-billed guild of Australian honeyeaters in their beak morphology, foraging behaviour, and diet choice, but with a greater importance of fruit in the bellbird diet. The annual mean number of bellbirds recorded per 5-minute count (1.05) at Craigieburn was relatively low, even compared to other eastern South Island sites, which have lower counts of bellbirds than the western South Island and offshore islands. As mistletoe fruit and nectar were preferred foods when in season, and bellbird counts were low at Craigieburn, we conclude that it is the probable low number of bellbirds in the area, and not their choice of diet, which limits mistletoe pollination and dispersal. The bellbird population at Craigieburn did not appear to be food limited as bellbirds spent less than 20% of their time feeding, and the number of hours per day bellbirds spent feeding and foraging did not change significantly from winter to summer while food resources became more plentiful. Other pressures that limit the bellbird population size, particularly predation from introduced mammals, would appear more likely explanations for poor pollination and disperser services to mistletoes at Craigieburn.
24058198|Despite the ecological importance of tree holes as habitat for many species in New Zealand, few studies have quantified the abundance, distribution or structural characteristics of tree holes in native forests. We recorded a total of 364 tree holes in ground-to-canopy surveys on 50 trees of five endemic species in the families Fagaceae and Podocarpaceae within Orikaka Ecological Area, Buller District, New Zealand. Tree holes were not uniformly distributed throughout the forest, with more holes in the three podocarp species Prumnopitys ferruginea, P. taxifolia and Dacrycarpus dacrydioides than in Nothofagus fusca or N. menziesii. However, N. fusca had the largest tree holes of any of the tree species sampled. Tree-hole volume and tree-hole opening both increased with tree size. Tree-hole opening was strongly positively correlated with internal volume, especially for the podocarps. It therefore potentially provides a useful surrogate measure for quantifying the abundance of large tree holes from cost-effective ground surveys. We estimated there might be as many as 771 tree holes per hectare of forest at this site, but fewer of these were thought to be large enough for obligate hole-dwelling vertebrate species. Our findings differ from those of previous researchers in native forests around New Zealand because earlier studies used ground-based surveys to sample the abundance of tree holes suitable for specific fauna, whereas we used climbed inspections where all tree holes were recorded. These differences in tree-hole estimates per hectare could be particularly important for the conservation management of native vertebrate and invertebrate species.
24058177|The Argentine ant, Linepithema humile, was found established in New Zealand in 1990. During summer 2001/2002 the spread of Argentine ants from urban environments into native habitats was investigated. During an initial large-scale survey around the northern cities of Auckland and Whangarei, Argentine ants were observed at 35 of 211 sites. Eight sites in Auckland were subsequently surveyed in greater detail to determine the extent of movement by Argentine ants into native habitats. The presence of Argentine ants was determined every 10 m along a total of 28 transects into native forest, scrub and mangrove habitats. Argentine ants moved up to 20 m into forest habitats. In habitats with more open canopy (mangrove and scrub), ants moved at least 30 m and 60 m, respectively. We predict that open habitats and relatively open canopy scrub environments in northern New Zealand are likely to be vulnerable to invasion, and to experience the highest densities and the greatest impacts of Argentine ants. Our preliminary data, coupled with data from other parts of the world suggests that intact indigenous forest in New Zealand will probably not be invaded. Indigenous forests are likely to have Argentine ants only at the boundary with open habitat, but in highly fragmented landscapes the impact could be significant.
24060894|The suitability of line-transect-based distance sampling to robustly estimate population densities of bellbird (Anthornis melanura), kerer (Hemiphaga novaeseelandiae), North island tomtit (Petroica macrocephala toitoi) and t (Prosthemadera novaeseelandiae) during concurrent multi-species surveys was investigated. Densities were estimated annually from 2006 to 2009 at three sites within Coromandel Forest Park, New Zealand. The line-transect distance sampling method appeared to be suitable for estimating population densities of kerer, tomtit and t for little additional cost than a single-species survey. Potential violation of the three most important distance sampling assumptions was expected to have been minimised for these species; however, distance estimation errors were most likely to bias density estimates. In this study, the line-transect distance sampling method was not found to be suitable for estimating bellbird densities.
24060782|At-sea shifts in food quality and availability can affect populations of marine birds; however, it is difficult to evaluate the impacts of changes in prey composition and availability without some baseline information on diet composition. The little penguin (Eudyptula minor) is a common inshore-feeding seabird in New Zealand and Australia. To date, only two dietary studies have been undertaken on the little penguin in New Zealand, at two widely separated locations. This study recorded diet of little penguins during the chick-rearing stage of breeding at three colonies in southern New Zealand. Sixty-nine stomach samples were acquired via the stomach flushing technique at Banks Peninsula, Oamaru, and Stewart Island. Prey composition differed between each site: (1) at Oamaru, Graham's gudgeon (Grahamichthys radiata) occurred most frequently (100%) and contributed the most to meal mass (92.1%); (2) at Banks Peninsula arrow squid (Nototodarus sloanii) occurred most frequently (87.5%), but two fish species  slender sprat (Sprattus antipodum) (33.9%) and ahuru (Auchenoceros punctatus) (37.4%)  contributed most to meal mass; and (3) at Stewart Island arrow squid occurred most frequently (91.3%), and contributed most to meal mass (73.1%). Little penguins take a wide diversity of species, and may switch between species, probably in response to temporal variation in availability. In New Zealand, little penguins ate higher proportions of lower quality cephalopods than those in Australia. As top predators in the marine ecosystem, changes in little penguin diet may indicate changes occurring in the inshore marine ecosystem.
24058213|Artificial refuges and mark-recapture techniques were used to monitor the non-target impacts of hand-broadcast application (simulating aerial application) of Wanganui No.7 cereal-based baits containing 0.15% (1500 g g1) 1080 on populations of weta and other invertebrates in Tararua Forest Park, North Island, New Zealand. Wellington tree weta (Hemideina crassidens) and a cave weta (Isoplectron sp.) were the only species of weta that occupied the refuges. Flatworms, slugs, spiders, harvestmen, amphipods, millipedes, centipedes, cockroaches, and beetles also occupied the refuges. Invertebrate numbers in the refuges were monitored for 12 months before and 4 months after bait application on 22 August 2000. Bait application had no significant impact on the numbers of either species of weta, or on slugs, spiders, and cockroaches, the most numerous other invertebrates occupying the refuges. Bait application also had no effect on the number of individually marked tree weta resighted in the refuges. Few weta or other invertebrates were observed on baits at night. The concentration of 1080 in a cave weta collected alive from a bait, and in a tree weta collected alive from outside an artificial refuge, was less than 10% of the average lethal dose. The results indicate that 1080-poisoning for vertebrate pest control is unlikely to have any negative impact on populations of weta or the other invertebrates monitored.
24052608|At Belmont, Lower Hutt, a population of starlings which nested in 500 nest boxes on 1500 ha of pasture land was studied from 1970 to 1979. In total, 750 breeding females and 60 males were individually banded, and of 4006 chicks that fledged 258 females returned to nest in the study area. In different years, 3-60% of the females attempted a second clutch after a successful first brood. Clutch size of females more than 1 year old averaged 4.48 eggs (4.17 to 4.81 in different years) and declined seasonally in early (4.57), intermediate (4.40) and late clutches (4.06). On average, individual females laid 4.17 eggs per clutch in their first year, reached peak clutch size of 4.77 when 3 years old, and declined steadily to 3.9 eggs at 8-10 years old. Productivity was low: 33% of 17 326 eggs laid produced young likely to have fledged, equivalent to 1.63 chicks per box available or 1.92 per occupied box. The annual mortality rate of starlings banded as young was only 33% in New Zealand as a whole, compared with 50-70% overseas.
24060787|The Norway rat (Rattus norvegicus) is a highly destructive invasive species but while rat eradications on islands are effective, detection of survivors or reinvasions is challenging. We tested whether laboratory rats can act as lures for wild rats. We live-trapped rats first by using food baits, followed by live trapping using male and female lure rats vs controls (i.e. the same trapping device but without the lure animal). Norway rats were more frequently attracted to lure rats compared with controls. There was no sex bias in the trapped animals. Numbers of Norway rats caught with food baits compared with lure rats did not differ, but trapping rates were higher when using lure rats. Rat activity was detected only around lure rats. Ship rats (Rattus rattus) were not caught with Norway lure rats. We demonstrate the potential for detecting invasive Norway rats using conspecific rats as lures. Further research looking at conspecific attraction in other situations and in direct comparison with food-baited traps is needed to determine the efficacy of this method as a control measure.
24053583|Light environments in two lowland New Zealand podocarp rainforests are described using data from quantum sensors. Mean daily total photosynthetic photon flux density (PPFD) in the forest understorey varies from 2.6-5.2% incident PPFD in summer and 1.0-2.5% in autumn, and in gaps from 5.0-16.6% in summer and 6.3-8.3% in autumn. Pronounced differences in understorey PPFD occur between clear and overcast days. Overcast days tend to have a lower proportion of 2-minute periods with very low mean PPFD than clear days. In summer, 37.7-91.7% of PPFD occurs as sunflecks, but these only occur for 4.0-27.9% of the time. Most sunflecks are short duration (42.2-72.7% less than 4 minutes in summer) but some are very long (>32 minutes). Overall, light environments are similar to those found in other forests, both in New Zealand and elsewhere. However, canopy structure has a pronounced influence on spatial distribution of light environments within a forest, and differences in the size and frequency of canopy disturbances are a contributing factor to the floristic differences between the two forests studied.
24054522|Primary successions involving teatree (Kunzea ericoides var. ericoides with some Leptospermum scoparium) were studied on shallow landslide scars on soft sedimentary (mudstone) hill country under extensive pastoral use in the East Cape (Tairawhiti) region, using a 5-72 yr chronosequence established from sequential aerial photography and the age of the oldest teatrees on scars. Dynamics of primary even-aged teatree stands are similar to those in secondary successions on reverting pasture described previously from the region. Height growth rates and basal area indicate that the productivity of teatree stands on landslide scars is similar to that on intact regolith. Although seventy five vascular species were recorded, one-third of them adventive, only five species - all native - were consistently present. Classification and ordination revealed four distinct stages in the evolution of ground layer communities, the first three with <50% plant cover (establishment and persistence of adventive grasses and herbs for 15 years; exclusion by shading of species other than Hypochoeris radicata and mosses from 15-30 years; establishment of Microlaena stipoides, Uncinia spp., and ferns from 30-50 years) and the fourth with >50% plant cover (principally M. stipoides, from 50 years), reflecting the dynamics - dominated by intraspecific competition - of the teatree stands. Apart from Leucopogon fasciculatus, other early successional canopy species were rare and later successional canopy species typical of primary forest in the region were absent. Despite the presence of seed sources of later successional canopy species in nearby remnants of primary forest and the persistence of their dispersers, continued removal of mostly palatable potential successors by grazing will stall their progression to tall forest. Mean soil depth increased logarithmically with age, from an average of 20 cm at age 10 yr to 58 cm at age 70 yr, a rate substantially faster than on sandstone elsewhere in the country.
24052713|A feeding association between two New Zealand passerine birds, saddlebacks (Philesturnus carunculatus, Callaeidae), and fantails (Rhipidura fuliginosa, Muscicapidae) is described. Saddlebacks are poor fliers, give loud vocalisations, and feed noisily. These characteristics allow fantails to find saddlebacks and to capture insects disturbed by the saddleback's activity. Fantails follow at a distance of about 50 cm, and tend to remain behind and below the saddleback. Fantails use different feeding sites when feeding in association with saddlebacks than they use when feeding alone.
24056346|Adult mortality, seed production, and seedling establishment of two species of New Zealand broom (Carmichaelia juncea and C. vexillata) were studied in exclosure trials to determine the level of threat posed by herbivory by introduced mammals. While no effect on mortality was observed for either species, herbivory by hares drastically reduced seed production and subsequent seedling establishment in C. juncea. C. vexillata seemed less vulnerable to herbivore damage due to its plant architecture, as well as the timing and intensity of the herbivore impact. The results of this trial suggest that species characteristics and the dynamics of herbivore impacts need to be considered in planning targeted herbivore control.
24060850|Introduced feral pigs (Sus scrofa) include native fruit and seed in their diet, and thus may act as seed dispersers if seeds are passed intact. The aim of this study was to determine whether pigs consume, and subsequently disperse, intact seeds of the New Zealand native tree matai (Prumnopitys taxifolia). Two captive pigs were fed 100 ripe fruit of matai and their faeces checked for seeds for 4 days. Fourteen intact seeds (14%) were recovered and 57% of these germinated under glasshouse conditions, comparable with germination from hand-cleaned seeds. We collected 3.5 kg of feral pig faeces from matai-dominated forest in Isolated Hill Reserve, southern Marlborough. This sample contained over 450 intact matai seeds; these seeds readily germinated in the glasshouse, reaching 68% germination after 22 months. These results indicate that pigs are consuming native fruit and passing some viable seeds out  thus acting as occasional seed dispersers.
24060872|The introduced brushtail possum (Trichosurus vulpecula) is a major environmental and agricultural pest in New Zealand but little information is available on the ecology of possums in drylands, which cover c. 19% of the country. Here, we describe a temporal snapshot of the diet and feeding preferences of possums in a dryland habitat in New Zealand's South Island, as well as movement patterns and survival rates. We also briefly explore spatial patterns in capture rates. We trapped 279 possums at an average capture rate of 9 possums per 100 trap nights. Capture rates on individual trap lines varied from 0 to 38%, decreased with altitude, and were highest in the eastern (drier) parts of the study area. Stomach contents were dominated by forbs and sweet briar (Rosa rubiginosa); both items were consumed preferentially relative to availability. Possums also strongly preferred crack willow (Salix fragilis), which was uncommon in the study area and consumed only occasionally, but in large amounts. Estimated activity areas of 29 possums radio-tracked for up to 12 months varied from 0.2 to 19.5 ha (mean 5.1 ha). Nine possums (4 male, 5 female) undertook dispersal movements (1000 m), the longest of which was 4940 m. The most common dens of radio-collared possums were sweet briar shrubs, followed by rock outcrops. Estimated annual survival was 85% for adults and 54% for subadults. Differences between the diets, activity areas and den use of possums in this study and those in forest or farmland most likely reflect differences in availability and distribution of resources. Our results suggest that invasive willow and sweet briar may facilitate the existence of possums by providing abundant food and shelter. In turn, possums may facilitate the spread of weeds by acting as a seed vector. This basic ecological information will be useful in modelling and managing the impacts of possum populations in drylands.
24060821|A major paradigm in plant ecology is the recognition of the profound consequences of the below-ground environment on the interactions between plants and other species above ground. It has recently been suggested that this perspective should be incorporated into plans to restore disturbed habitats. However, these efforts are undermined by our lack of knowledge on the consequences of naturally occurring below-ground disturbance. The 6.2 moment magnitude earthquake that struck near Christchurch, New Zealand, on 22 February 2011 provides a rare test case to identify the effects of profound below-ground disturbance on above-ground interactions. We study these effects by quantifying interactions between the weedy perennial Malva sylvestris and its above-ground antagonists. We show that across two spatial scales, the presence of earthquake-induced soil disturbance (liquefaction) has no significant effect on the abundance of antagonists on M. sylvestris. Our results demonstrate resilience of some above-ground interactions to profound, natural below-ground disturbance. This result is important both for understanding the limits of the above-groundbelow-ground linkages paradigm and to help remediate the consequences of profound below-ground disturbances.
24056359|Fruit features of 17 Acaena species in New Zealand were investigated to determine the relations between reproductive allocation patterns, mode of dispersal and species ecology. Three basic morphological types, corresponding to major sections within the genus, are represented: spineless fruits (Sect. Pteracaena - one species), spined fruits lacking barbs (Sect. Microphyllae - 6 species), and spined fruits with barbs (Sect. Ancistrum - 10 species). The presence of terminal barbs on spines enhances fruit adhesion to animals, and is associated with the development of longer scapes, globular many-fruited capitula, and smaller single-seeded fruits. Barb-spined species generally have the broadest geographical range and habitat distribution within New Zealand, and are the only species of Acaena to occur in forests or on offshore islands. These species are generally strongly stoloniferous. Acaena species with barbless spines and/or no spines are often regional endemics confined to open and/or localised habitats, are rhizomatous, and may be dispersed by water, ingestion or wind. There is a tight correlation between intrageneric classification and species ecology and fruit features which requires testing via independent phylogenetic analysis based on molecular genetic characters. Although avian dispersers have declined since human settlement, introduced mammals may be performing a similar function for barbed Acaena species.
24052730|Approximately 50,000 ha of native wet Metrosideros forest on the island of Hawai'i experienced a drastic reduction (dieback) of the tree canopy between 1954 and 1977. Two general hypotheses have previously been suggested to explain this phenomenon: 1) Metrosideros dieback has resulted from recently introduced pathogens, and 2) the dieback has naturally occurred previously in Hawai'i, and is related to plant succession under periodic conditions of climatic instability which effect the soil moisture regime. Plant species composition, vegetation structure, and general substrate characteristics (lava flow type and soil drainage) were sampled on adjacent dieback and non-dieback rain forest stands. Although the only primary difference identified between these two forest stands was lava flow structure, both the soil drainage conditions and the plant communities which had developed on the two sites were found to be considerably different. The results of this study lend support to the successional hypothesis of Metrosideros dieback.
24054439|We compare hemispherical (fisheye) photography and direct measurement using dataloggers for quantifying light intensity (photon flux density) in a New Zealand forest remnant. The hemispherical method was generally accurate, and faster than using dataloggers, but deviated from measured light intensity at low light levels (<20% of full sunlight). For deeply shaded sites, diazo-paper chemical light meters may be more suitable.
24060732|Genetic variation in two translocated populations of North Island saddleback (Philesturnus rufusater) on Kapiti Island and at Zealandia was investigated using five microsatellite loci and compared with the source populations in the Hauraki Gulf. Although the absolute number of alleles in the two populations was low (3 alleles per locus), both populations carried all the alleles found in their immediate source populations, but lacked one rare allele found in only one individual from the original remnant population on Hen Island. Overall heterozygosity was high and inbreeding coefficients were low. Population viability analyses showed that these populations will likely reach carrying capacity by the middle of this decade, and genetic simulations predicted that they should retain between 90% (Kapiti) and 95% (Zealandia) of the heterozygosity of their sources. The difference between the two populations is most likely due to the prolonged post-translocation bottleneck on Kapiti when rats were still present on the island. While our results suggest that additional top-up translocations would be unnecessary and unwarranted at this time, further work on potentially selected loci or inbreeding depression could justify this decision to be revisited.
24060898|Urban areas can support significant bird populations, including species of conservation concern, but urban ecologists have been slow to apply detectability-based counting techniques. We compared abundacnes and relative abundances of eight urban birds, derived using two commonly applied techniques (fixed-radius point and strip sampling) and distance sampling. We evaluated the influence of habitat and two covariates (observer and whether birds were seen or heard) on detectability. Due to built-up structures in urban areas, point counts are appropriate. Unavoidable and sometimes complex but necessary interactions with multiple property owners may compromise the number of points able to be counted and therefore the precision of estimates. Abundances from strip and fixed-radius point counts were on average only one-third (strip) and less than one-half (fixed-radius point) those obtained using distance sampling, with interspecific variation in the degree to which densities were underestimated. Rankings of relative abundances were mostly similar, although distance sampling ranked silvereye (Zosterops lateralis) and grey warbler (Gerygone igata) relatively higher in residential habitat. Habitat did not appear to influence detectability for most species, but the two covariates (observer and seen/heard) improved model fit for a number of species, indicating it is useful to record this information. Well-standardised non-detectability-based counts could provide useful information on community structure and relative abundances in urban areas, but distance sampling is necessary to track the population status of species, although it cannot usefully be applied to rare species.
24056343|Estimates of abundance, age structure and sex ratio are essential for monitoring the status of populations. We report the first attempt to reliably estimate these parameters in a population of the recently discovered Raukumara tusked weta (Motuweta riparia), which is found almost entirely near streams. On two occasions we searched a 211-m section of creek for 45 successive nights and individually marked all weta. We estimated abundance of adults and juveniles using closed-population mark-recapture analysis. The choice of mark-recapture model made a substantial difference to the estimated abundance (116238) and proportion of juveniles (3272%). However, no single model was clearly better supported than any other. We therefore used model averaging to account for uncertainty in model choice, giving an estimate of 142 (95% CI 105231) weta including 56 (95% CI 41234) adults and 77 (95% CI 46209) juveniles. This corresponds to a density of 0.11 (95% CI 0.080.18) weta per m2, assuming 3 m of habitat on either side of the creek. Recapture probability was much lower for adults (n = 2) than juveniles (n = 10), possibly caused by a difference in handling (adults were held overnight whereas juveniles were not). Slightly more juvenile males (n = 22) were caught than juvenile females (n = 21), but more adult females (n = 51) were caught than adult males (n = 31), suggesting a potentially higher mortality in males. An initial assessment of population size is crucial when considering the conservation status and management strategy of rare animals, such as the highly endangered Middle Island tusked weta. The immediate practical benefit of the methods developed here is therefore clear. In the long-term, these methods also have important implications for the continued monitoring of trends in other threatened invertebrate populations.
24058107|Both tree and ground wt have been proposed as potential seed dispersers of some New Zealand fruit. We examine evidence for coevolution of ground wt and fleshy fruits as suggested by Burns (2006). We found that although ground wt consume fruits from Gaultheria depressa and G. antipoda, they do not do so in a way that would suggest they had coevolved as dispersers with these or other New Zealand plants (Coprosma, Muehlenbeckia, Leucopogon). In our experiments, ground wt ate fruits piecemeal and avoided most seeds even when these were very small (<1 mm) as in Gaultheria. We also found a positive preference for eating fruits of plants with seeds that were too big for ground wt to ingest. Several lines of reasoning we explore lend no support to the proposal that ground wt have coevolved with New Zealand plants resulting in the unusual characteristics displayed by many species (pale fruit presented within a divaricating canopy).
24058162|We quantified brushtail possum (Trichosurus vulpecula) diet in a mixed Nothofagus fusca-N. menziesii forest in north Westland. Diet comprised 49 food items of which four (Aristotelia serrata, Muehlenbeckia australis and Weinmannia racemosa foliage, and W. racemosa flowers) contributed 68%. The canopy dominant Nothofagus species were a minor diet component (<1%), while wood, fungi and bark were a small but consistent part of diet (10.1%). Our results are similar to previous possum diet studies in Nothofagus forests and suggest that possums are very selective in their feeding, both spatially and temporally, focusing on key preferred species in particular parts of the forest and taking advantage of different food types that become available at different times of the year.
24054546|Egg and chick loss at banded dotterel (Charadrius bicinctus) nests was studied over the 1992/93 season on the Tekapo, Ohau and Ahuriri Rivers in the Central South Island. Egg loss at nests was higher on the Ohau and Tekapo Rivers than on the Ahuriri River, especially early in the season. Only 11 % and 12 % of nests fledged one or more chicks on the Tekapo and Ohau Rivers respectively, compared to 42 % of nests on the Ahuriri River. Nests on islands within the braided riverbeds were more successful than nests on the mainland. Proximity of nests to potential predator cover did not influence hatching success although close proximity of nests to rabbit burrows increased the risk of predation. A lack of knowledge of the predator species involved in this study hampers assessment of the impact of various factors on the breeding success of banded dotterels. Further research to identify predators is necessary to target conservation management and better protect banded dotterel and endangered riverbed birds.
24060842|Evidence of diet has been reported for all genera of extinct New Zealand moa (Aves: Dinornithiformes), using preserved gizzard content and coprolites, except the forest-dwelling Anomalopteryx. Skeletal features of the little bush moa (Anomalopteryx didiformis) have led to competing suggestions that it may have either browsed trees and shrubs or grubbed for fern rhizomes. Here, we analyse pollen assemblages from two coprolites, identified by ancient DNA analysis as having been deposited by Anomalopteryx didiformis. The pollen results, together with identified fragments of leaf cuticles from the coprolites, support the hypothesis that Anomalopteryx didiformis browsed trees and shrubs in the forest understorey.
24053308|The numbers of Adelie penguins Pygoscelis adeliae (Hombron and Jacquinot) in the Ross Sea, Antarctica, have increased markedly over the past 10 years. Proportionally, this increase is most pronounced in McMurdo Sound, where the species' breeding range has recently been extended 3 km south to Cape Barne (7735'S) with the re-occupation of a former rookery that was abandoned sometime before the present century. These biological trends show remarkable synchronisation with physical evidence of climatic variation in the McMurdo Sound region. We suggest that the dynamics of Adelie penguin populations may be very sensitive indicators of changes in the Antarctic climate.
24053674|In addressing the issue of customary management of indigenous species, we begin by defining the rights of Maori and the responsibilities of the Crown under Article 2 of the Treaty of Waitangi. We then criticise the status quo by demonstrating what we see as cultural bias in native bird management. This is followed by an outline of the approach we believe is needed to better serve the requirements of the Treaty. We conclude that existing unfair management emphases produce outcomes that are both culturally and ecologically counterproductive.
24053570|Low acceptance of protein baits by common (Vespula vulgaris) and German (V. germanica) wasps (Hymenoptera: Vespidae) occurred after rain in honeydew beech forest. This corresponded with a sharp decrease in the proportion of natural protein in the diet of V. vulgaris and V. germanica, and a reduction in the concentration of carbohydrate-rich honeydew in the crops of foraging wasps carrying liquid. The reduction of protein foraging most likely results from a change in the efficiency of foraging wasps at gathering high energy foods such as honeydew after rain, because rain reduces honeydew availability. Workers may therefore take longer to meet their own energy requirements before they can forage for protein to feed developing larvae.
24055312|Changes in vegetation from 1990 to 2000 were examined at 10 high country localities, representing four grassland types: fescue tussock (Festuca novae-zelandiae), snow tussock (Chionochloa rigida), red tussock (C. rubra), and silver tussock (Poa cita). At each locality, three treatments were established: ambient sheep+rabbit grazing, rabbit grazing only, and no grazing. The mutivariate methods of classification and ordination were used on individual-quadrat cover data to define vegetation states and to examine transitions between them over time. Vegetation states in quadrats already dominated by Hieracium pilosella (>50% cover) in 1990 showed little change in species composition regardless of grassland type and grazing treatment. In fescue tussock grassland, H. pilosella increased regardless of grazing treatment in states with low initial H. pilosella cover (<5%), while the cover of Carex colensoi, Aira caryophyllea and Rumex acetosella decreased. In the single silver tussock locality, Poa cita decreased markedly in the ungrazed treatment as adventive species such as Dactylis glomerata and Echium vulgare increased. However, Poa cita also decreased, probably due to drought, in the grazed treatment. Snow tussock and red tussock grassland states were more stable than those in short tussock grasslands, but there was also a general trend towards increasing H. pilosella cover in intertussock vegetation regardless of treatment. However, at one snow tussock locality, transitions from H. pilosella-dominated to C. rigida-dominated states occurred in ungrazed quadrats, while the reverse occurred in grazed vegetation. Implications for the management of tussock grasslands for conservation are discussed.
24054646|We examined the jaw size, age and sex distribution of 324 red deer constituting a comprehensive record of all recreational hunting kills made by a single hunter of the Tararua ranges of North Island New Zealand over a period 20 years (1976-1996). The proportion of stags shot at times other than the rut (March - April) was not significantly different to that in a sample of deer obtained by commercial helicopter hunting and did not change significantly after the first three years of hunting regardless of any effect of helicopter hunting. Conversely, significantly greater numbers of males were shot during the months of the rut and this proportion increased significantly after the first three years of hunting presumably as a result of increased selectivity and or skill. The recreational hunter harvested significantly greater numbers of older animals than did helicopter hunters. The proportion of older animals shot during, and at times other than the rut, increased significantly after the first three years of hunting. Analysis of jaw length versus age showed a significant increase in the jaw size of age cohorts born after 1976 i. e. after an increase in culling effort and was indicative of a general decline in population density during the period of the study.
24054471|Soil characteristics were examined within and adjacent to two vegetation exclosures near Porters Pass, Canterbury retired from grazing 45 years ago. Soils were analysed for a range of simple physical (topsoil depth, bulk density), chemical (pH, exchangeable cations, P, S, total C and N) and biochemical (microbial carbon) properties to determine whether the vegetation recovery inside the exclosures was reflected in soil differences. At both sites there were few significant differences between the exclosure and the surrounding grazed area, despite vegetation recovery since exclusion of grazing. At Starvation Gully topsoil depth and Na were higher, and bulk density, pH, K, total C, total N and microbial C mass, and the microbial C to total C ratio were lower in the exclosure. At Cloudy Knoll Ca, Mg, total C and N were higher and Na was lower in the exclosure. There was a marked contrast in the trends at the two sites, with slightly lower nutrient status and organic matter in the exclosure at Starvation Gully, and the reverse at Cloudy Knoll. The differences between the sites probably reflect differences in the partitioning of nutrients and organic matter between vegetation, litter and soil at the two sites. The results suggest a slow rate of change of soil properties following cessation of grazing and the need to sample soils, litter and vegetation when determining trends in organic matter and chemical fertility.
24060890|Growing concerns about significant biodiversity decline due to agricultural intensification are increasingly leading consumers to seek agricultural products that are produced sustainably. To raise awareness of sustainable land management and direct policy and research to mitigate adverse impacts, large-scale bird monitoring programmes are being used in Europe. New Zealand's first farmland bird monitoring scheme was established in 2004 to quantify bird abundance on 98 farms across three sectors (sheep & beef, dairy and kiwifruit). Distance methods were considered ideal because they minimised disruption by nuisance variables that affected detectability (most often observer and whether birds were seen or heard; less frequently, effects of wind, habitat and farming systems). However, distance detection functions could only be measured for half the species present on the study farms, and sampling uncertainty remained high for several of those species. Gradually more species with reduced sampling uncertainty can be added as sufficient detections are gathered to generate their global detection functions. This will likely increase the scheme's power to detect any ongoing decline, but simulations that combine sampling uncertainty with observed inter-annual variation in abundance are now needed to test whether population-decline thresholds can be reliably detected using the current and alternative survey designs.
24052742|We quantify the notion of predictable species loss from progressively smaller islands, and apply the quantification to the indigenous forest-dwelling birds of a series of New Zealand islands and to the passerines of the Cyclades Archipelago in the Aegean Sea. The analysis focuses on the reasons why the species-area relationship deviates from a perfect rank-correlation. For both avifaunas, most species are found remarkably predictably: they approximate a pattern in which each species occupies all those and only those islands larger than some species-specific minimum area. However, a minority of species in each avifauna do not conform to this pattern. Possible reasons for non-conformance include habitat differences among islands, anthropogenous extinctions, and equilibrium turnover. To the extent that the first two forces predominate, it would be far better to base conservation decisions on species lists from particular tracts that are potential refuges than on island occupancy patterns.
24052381|Plate counts and CO2-respiration rates for various added substrates were measured for samples of mud from the lower reaches of the Heathcote River, Christchurch. All samples tested contained large populations of aerobic and anaerobic micro-organisms able to metabolize glucose, succinate and benzoate. Our results suggest that the availability of utilizable carbon was the major limiting factor for cell growth.
24058201|We studied the genus- and species-specialist monophagous herbivorous insects of Senecio (Asteraceae) in Auckland, New Zealand. With the exception of the widespread S. hispidulus, the eight native Senecio species in mainland Auckland (two endemic) are typically uncommon and restricted to less modified conservation land. However, 11 naturalised Senecio have established and are often widespread in urban and rural habitats. Three endemic Senecio-specialist herbivores  Nyctemera annulata, Patagoniodes farnaria, and Tephritis fascigera  formed novel host associations with naturalised Senecio species and spread into modified landscapes. Host associations for these species were not related to whether Senecio species are naturalised or native. However, the abundances of Patagonoides farnaria and Tephritis fascigera were significantly higher in wildland habitats than rural or urban habitats, and wildland Senecio were on average 1.4 times more likely to experience >5% folivory than urban conspecifics.
24058125|Plants can change the soil that they grow on, for example by producing litter. If litter characteristics are such that their effect on the soil increases a plant's fitness, a positive feedback can develop between the plant and the soil. Several studies indicate that New Zealand kauri trees (Agathis australis) lower the availability of nutrients in the soil beneath their crown. Low nutrient availability would be positive for the survival of kauri seedlings as they are known to use nutrients more efficiently than angiosperm species. We tested the hypotheses that nutrient availability is lower and light availability is higher beneath kauri trees than beneath the surrounding angiosperm vegetation. We determined the availability of nutrients (using leaf nutrient concentrations as a proxy), soil moisture, and light in both situations. As a reference we did the same measurements in tea tree vegetation (Leptospermum scoparium and Kunzea ericoides) where kauri seedlings were abundant. The availability of nitrogen, phosphorus and calcium was lower under kauri than in the surrounding vegetation. Further, in a dry period the availability of water in the organic layer surrounding the kauri trunk was lower than in the mineral soil further away from the kauri trunk. We suggest that periodic drought explains why the density of kauri seedlings under mature kauri trees is less than in tea tree vegetation. Kauri seedlings are more tolerant of drought and low nutrient availability than other tree seedlings and we conclude that the conditions under mature kauri give kauri seedlings an advantage over seedlings of other tree species. The low nutrient availability under mature kauri trees supports the idea of a positive soilplant feedback driven by poor decomposability of kauri litter.
24053602|The yellowhead, a forest-dwelling passerine endemic to the South Island of New Zealand, has declined in both abundance and range since the arrival of European settlers last century. In the last 30 years it has all but disappeared from the northern half of the South Island but remains widespread in the south. One possible explanation is that the yellowhead has declined in abundance throughout its range, disappearing from less suitable habitats in which it was never very abundant. To test this hypothesis a habitat suitability index was constructed and northern and southern forests compared. Yellowheads appear to be tall forest specialists and are most common in tall red beech dominated forests at low altitude on flat valley floors. No evidence was found that forests in the northern South Island are any less suitable for yellowheads than those in the south. Other explanations for the decline of yellowheads in the north of their range are discussed.
24060649|The endangered New Zealand widow spider, Latrodectus katipo, is believed to have undergone marked population decline over the last 30 years, but as monitoring methods are time- and labour-intensive, and require observers to have a high level of experience, the current status of many populations is unknown. We investigated the use of artificial cover objects (ACOs) as an alternative monitoring tool for L. katipo at three sites at Himatangi Beach, Manawatu, New Zealand, from late 2004 through to mid-2005. Occupancy rates of the ACOs were compared to population densities obtained from habitat searches, to assess their efficacy as a monitoring tool. Numbers of the introduced spider, Steatoda capensis, which may be a competitor of L. Katipo, were also recorded during habitat searches. ACOs were reliable monitoring tools, with occupancy rates higher at the site with the highest L. Katipo population density. Latrodectus katipo populations were found to have highly female biased sex-ratios, with a longer breeding season at Himatangi than reported previously at other sites. Steatoda capensis exists at much higher population densities than L. katipo at Himatangi. However, fluctuations in the populations of the two species appear to be unrelated. ACOs could be used as a non-destructive monitoring tool for many other invertebrate species.
24053568|New Zealand's protected natural areas are being increasingly threatened by weeds as the natural landscape is fragmented and surrounding land use intensifies. To assist in designing management to reduce the threat, we attempted to determine the most important reserve characteristics influencing the presence of problem weeds in forest and scrub reserves. Data on 15 reserve characteristics were derived from surveys of 234 reserves. From correlation analysis, analysis of variance and consideration of several multivariate models, it appears that the most important characteristics influencing the number of problem weeds in reserves are proximity to towns, distance from roads and railway lines, human use, reserve shape, and habitat diversity. These factors reflect principally increased proximity to source of propagules associated with intensifying land use, including urbanisation. Reserves with the most weeds are narrow remnants on fertile soils with clearings and a history of modification, and those close to towns or sites of high human activity. If these reserves are to continue to protect natural values, they will require regular attention to prevent the establishment of further weeds. Accidental spread of weeds and disturbance in reserves should be minimised.
24052792|Twelve kiwis were radio-tagged and tracked for 12-78 weeks in two sites in Hawke's Bay. Four bonded pairs had ranges of 19.1 to 42.3 ha (estimated by the convex polygon method), which were apparently defended against other kiwis. Two unmated females had ranges of 48.0 and 43.1 ha. Another unmated female occupied a narrow, circular strip, 5.4 km long, covering about 26 ha. The ranges of four kiwis in scrubland and eight in climax beech/podocarp forest were similar in size. Kiwis roosted on 36% of days in burrows which they excavated themselves. On other days they roosted in natural subterranean tunnels, or in hollows under fallen trees, thick vegetation, or inside logs. Generally they roosted in a different place each day but often returned to sites they had used previously. Members of bonded pairs roosted apart on 92% of days, in different parts of their range. In terms of current understanding of population genetics, reserves for kiwis in Hawke's Bay probably need to be at least 7500 ha in order to support a genetically enduring population of 250 breeding pairs. None of the existing reserves meet this requirement.
24054456|Records of official deer control operations in the Kaweka Range between 1958 and 1988 have been used to describe the pattern of official hunting, to indicate changes in hunting efficiency, and to show trends in the proportions of sika and red deer in sympatric populations. The pattern of hunting largely reflected wild animal control priorities, and to some extent the resources available. Whereas hunting effort was concentrated in Block 1 (of three) during the 1960s to protect catchment values, changes in the rationale for wild animal control and the efforts of commercial and recreational hunters in the more accessible areas led to a more even spread of the hunting effort from the early 1970s. Hunting efficiency also varied between the three hunting blocks, probably reflecting differences in the ease with which particular habitats could be hunted. A decline in hunting efficiency over the study period was interpreted as an overall decrease in the density of the deer population. The proportion of sika among the deer shot in the Kaweka Range has increased steadily from about 10-20% in the early 1960s to 70% in 1987-88. A competitive advantage over red deer because of their different digestive physiology is suggested as the main reason. The most rapid increases in the proportion of sika were associated with two peaks in commercial venison and live-capture operations that concentrated on red deer, indicating that commercial hunting has also been a factor. It is likely that sika will continue increasing in proportion to red deer in areas already inhabited. In addition, sika will probably continue to disperse into new areas as they competitively displace red deer.
24053178|In late 1986 an official deer hunting regime in the Murchison Mountains, Fiordland, was compared with two commerical aerial hunting regimes in the adjacent Stuart Mountains by measuring the density of deer faecal pellet groups. Overall densities in the Stuart Mountains were twice those in the Murchison Mountains. Official hunting appeared to be more effective than commercial hunting at reducing and controlling deer densities in heavily forested catchments, but not in catchments with less extensive forest cover. The deer density in individual catchments was determined primarily by the extent of forest cover, which controlled the vulnerability of deer to aerial hunting. The presence of the protected wapiti (Cervus elaphus nelsoni) in the northern Stuart Mountains resulted in higher deer densities, when differences in deer vulnerability between catchments were taken into account, than in the southern Stuart Mountains where there are only red deer (Cervus elaphus scoticus). The restriction on the commercial harvesting of wapiti appears to have increased the proportion of wapiti-like deer in some catchments in the Stuart Mountains. Normal commerical hunting may provide the same level of deer control as official hunting for the management of takahe (Notornis mantelli) in some of the catchments studied, assuming 1986 economic conditions and hunter skills.
24054779|There is growing awareness and concern in New Zealand about native birds eating poisonous baits intended for pest species such as brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) and rats (Rattus rattus, R. norvegicus, R. exulans). We investigated the colour preferences of North Island robins (Petroica australis) a species known to be vulnerable to poisoning. The main aims were to determine if: (1) robins had colour preferences, (2) the preferences were consistent between two separate populations and 3) the preferences were similar to those found previously in weka (Gallirallus australis), another native species. Robins in Pureora Forest Park and Te Urewera National Park were individually offered a choice between differently coloured versions of a novel food (red, yellow, brown, green, light blue and medium blue) daily, for six consecutive days. Robins showed food colour preferences pecking more at the red, yellow and green cake than the medium blue, light blue or brown cake. No difference was evident in the colour preferences of the two populations. The colour preferences of robins were similar to those reported previously with weka. Dyeing poisonous baits may be sufficient to stop a proportion of robins from eating them. Further work is needed to determine how colour preferences vary across seasons, populations and species.
24052775|The hypothesis that communal roosts and breeding colonies of birds act as information centres for food-finding was tested using pigeons, Columba livia, in Hawke's Bay, New Zealand. The birds roosted and bred in lofts, but were free each day to search for food in the surrounding fields. Two of three experiments showed that naive pigeons could learn the location of a patch of food when with experienced birds. A fourth experiment showed that naive birds learned by following experienced ones to a good feeding area. Pigeons returning from a successful foraging trip did not transfer information on the distance and direction of the food to other members of the colony.
24056349|Honeydew production by New Zealand beech scale insects (Ultracoelostoma spp., Hemiptera: Margarodidae) is widely considered to have a positive influence on native animal abundance and ecosystem functioning. As a first assessment of whether there is a positive relationship between honeydew throughfall and litter decomposition rates, we placed experimental litter bags in each of 10 high and 10 low honeydew plots in mixed southern beech (Nothofagus) forest at each of two sites, Lakehead and Rotoiti, in the Nelson Lakes National Park. High and low honeydew plots were selected using sooty mould biomass on the forest floor as a surrogate for honeydew throughfall, as sooty mould biomass was shown to be strongly correlated (r = 0.906) with scale insect population size at the Rotoiti site. Contrary to our expectation, terrestrial litter decomposition was significantly lower in high honeydew plots than in low honeydew plots, at both Lakehead and Rotoiti. The presence of introduced wasps (Vespula spp., Hymenoptera: Vespidae) at the Lakehead site did not appear to have any significant effect on litter decomposition rates, despite the fact that wasps are thought to intercept much of the honeydew produced in this forest. Variance in litter decomposition rates between high and low honeydew treatments was predominantly determined by a direct relationship between sooty mould biomass and litter decomposition rate at the scale of individual litter bags. However, the mechanistic explanation for the observed relationship is unclear. Future studies should be directed towards quantifying the functional relationship between honeydew throughfall and growth rates of sooty mould, and their subsequent effects on abiotic conditions, microarthropod community dynamics and microbial activity rates in litter.
24060634|Spatial studies of ecology rarely look at small-scale spatial community organisation within multiple plots on multiple sites therefore it is difficult to draw conclusions that can be generalised. We hypothesised that small-scale spatial patterns of Festuca tussock grasslands should be consistent within a site and between various sites because their functional ecology is likely to be similar. Tussocks were mapped in 15 plots ranging in size from 56 to 400 m2 spread over four sites. Ripley's K, inhomogeneous Ripley's K and inhomogeneous pair correlation functions were implemented to detect patterns of aggregation, regularity and not significantly different from random at scales up to 300 cm. While Ripley's K indicated a general trend of regularity up to small scales (c. 20 cm) and aggregation up to larger scales (>40 cm), these patterns were not upheld by the inhomogeneous Ripley's K and inhomogeneous pair correlation function analyses, which did not yield consistent patterns. Our results suggest that within- and between-site variation of spatial patterns cannot be assumed to be consistent.
24055335|During a comprehensive survey in 1999, 2000 and 2001, we investigated the number of breeding yellow-eyed penguin pairs on Stewart Island, where cats are present, and on adjacent cat-free islands. We found 79 pairs of yellow-eyed penguin breeding in 19 discrete locations on Stewart Island (4.2 pairs per location), and 99 pairs breeding in 10 discrete locations on all cat-free islands (9.9 pairs per location). Large-scale human-induced habitat modifications have not occurred on Stewart Island, nor on any of its adjacent offshore islands. While the extensive coastline of Stewart Island (673 km) offers potentially large areas of breeding habitat for penguins, the highest number of breeding pairs were found on the smaller, predator-free Codfish Island (25 km coastline), where a total of 61 breeding pairs were recorded. On Stewart Island, where mustelids do not occur, only feral cats can pose a serious threat to penguin offspring. Results from this study suggest that feral cats may prey on yellow-eyed penguins on Stewart Island. Further work is necessary to investigate whether the observed low numbers of yellow-eyed penguins on Stewart Island are caused by feral cat predation. If so, it may be possible to develop appropriate measures to protect this penguin species from a population decline.
24056440|We describe a simple gravimetric technique for measuring the standing crop or production of carbohydrate-rich solutions such as honeydew or nectar. Simulated honeydew was sampled by absorbing droplets of solutions of known concentration and volume with dried and weighed pieces of filter paper. The change in mass of the paper after redrying provides an estimate of the total solution carbohydrates. This method was compared with a widely-used technique, whereby the volume and concentration of droplets is measured with microcapillary tubes and a sugar refractometer. A factor was derived to convert gravimetric refractometer readings (g sucrose 100 g1 solution) to volumetric carbohydrate concentration (g carbohydrate 100 ml1 solution) for the simulated honeydew solutions. There was no difference in the ratio of measured-to-expected carbohydrate mass between the two techniques, showing that the quick, easy, and accurate filter-paper method is appropriate for measuring carbohydrate-rich solutions.
24053185|An estimate of intrinsic rate of increase (rm) of a brushtail possum (Trichosurus vulpecula) population was calculated from the measured increase in possum numbers after a poisoning operation in Westland rata/kamahi forest. Our empirical estimate of rm (0.220.25) was lower than published estimates for this species (0.30, 0.34, 0.59). Consequently, the control operation was effective for longer than predicted by population models that used these published values. We suggest reasons why the rates of fecundity and juvenile survival used in other modelling studies may have been inappropriate for this population.
24054748|Population structure, diversity and gene flow in four populations of Aciphylla glaucescens were studied using allozymes. Six of the seven putative loci were polymorphic in at least one population. Within populations the mean percentage of polymorphic loci was 68%. Gene diversity for Aciphylla glaucescens (He = 0.258) was greater at the species level compared with other outcrossing, wind pollinated plant species (He = 0.162). The mean diversity among populations of A. glaucescens (FST = 0.256) was also greater than that reported for most other species with similar breeding systems. Estimated gene flow (Nm) between populations was low, with only 0. 72 migrants per generation. The high gene diversity of A. glaucescens may be due to the widespread distribution, obligate outcrossing and high fecundity of this species.
24055346|The claim by Dungan et al. (2002) that "in many areas possums may be the only potential dispersal vector for large-seeded native species" is unsubstantiated. There is little evidence possums excrete viable seed of large-seeded fruit greater than 10 mm diameter, and seeds up to this size are dispersed by a suite of bird species. Nowhere in New Zealand are there likely to be possums in the absence of this suite of bird species.
24053257|Anthropic, or man-induced erosion can be recognized on Canterbury's mountain land. Almost all of it is identical in form and mode of origin to other erosion types, and may be indistinguishable unless obviously associated with roads, tracks, or fences. In particular, where vegetation is destroyed or impaired by fire or grazing, it is impossible to separately identify anthropic and natural components of the erosion. Early surveys reported significant anthropic erosion throughout the region. Subsequent work has revealed some errors in methodology, but more importantly it allows the human influence to be viewed in context with the more significant and more extensive natural erosion. The highest sediment yields and erosion rates in Canterbury are within the wetter, and in some places well-forested, areas near the main divide, rather than in the drier, depleted eastern ranges. Some barren screes have changed little over centuries, and even very active unstable screes may be old landforms. Soil stratigraphy reveals a long history of episodic stability and instability. Dated charcoals provide a fire history spanning more than 40,000 yr. More frequent fires between 500 and 1000 yr ago brought widespread deforestation. There probably were regional increases in erosion while forest soils adjusted to loss of tree-root strength. Early pastoralists further increased the frequency of fires and grazed sheep, greatly modifying the grass- and shrub-land vegetation in both stature and composition. Erosion rates would have increased because sheet erosion is more than 10 times greater from bare soils than from those with intact tussock, scrub, or scree cover. Repeat photographs near Porters Pass, however, show both increases and decreases in bare ground rather than a general trend over the last 90 yr. Widely distributed grassland transects also show little consistent change in bare ground in the last 10 to 35 yr. Harsh climate and soil infertility slow or inhibit plant re-establishment on bared ground for decades and probably centuries in the drier mountain lands of Canterbury.
24060786|Artificial nests and tracking tunnels are alternative predator encounter devices that can be used to predict predation risk to native species. Tracking tunnels are used ubiquitously in New Zealand, whereas artificial nests are used extensively overseas. To assess whether these devices give similar information about predation risk, we compared tracking tunnel and artificial nest data from 16 native forest fragments in the central North Island over two summers. The fragments were expected to vary in predation risk due to rat control in some fragments, and possibly due to habitat differences caused by stock grazing. We modelled the 'survival' of both types of devices, where 'survival' is defined as the probability of not being tracked or bitten by a rat over a set period (possum bites were also considered to indicate nest failure, but were rare). We used a Bayesian hierarchical framework that allowed for random effects of individual devices as well as fragments, and random time effects. Data from both devices showed clear effects of rat control, but otherwise gave different results. Tracking tunnel survival varied greatly among fragments in the absence of control, with survival generally higher in grazed than ungrazed fragments, whereas no such pattern occurred in artificial nest survival. Different habitat variables explained variation in survival at both site and fragment level; understorey density was the only useful predictor of tracking tunnel survival, whereas artificial nest survival was correlated with canopy cover, vegetation cover at 1.5 m, and supplejack presence. When both data types were modelled simultaneously, the tracking tunnel data improved capacity to explain the artificial nest data whereas the reverse was not true. Consequently, while it is unknown whether the additional inter-fragment variation detected by tracking tunnels indicates real variation in predation risk, we currently see no reason to prefer the more labour-intensive artificial nests.
24052788|Simple grazing models with two herbivores are used to assess the effects of pasture pests on stability and productivity of continously-growing pastures. Algebraic and graphical methods are also presented for estimating losses from pasture pests at different stocking rates directly, from data on productivity/stocking rate relationships. Pests are considered as competing grazing herbivores and denuders of pasture area. Denuding pests have no effect on stability but grazing pests increase the likelihood of discontinuous stability. The forms of the damage function and its dependence on stocking rate are described for both types of pest. Estimating losses from pasture pests by an equivalent reduction in stocking rate can give useful 'best bet' results even when the true effect is to reduce per capita productivity at fixed stocking rates. However, the first will overestimate or underestimate the second in particular situations, depending on the level of the fixed stocking rate relative to the economic optimum. Actual economic losses for rabbits and porina caterpillars, representing grazing and denuding pests, are estimated as $2.1/rabbit and $0.08/porina m2/stock unit carried, based on a reduction in stocking rate. At a fixed optimum stocking rate losses are 30% greater, and at a fixed 75% optimum stocking rate losses are 60% less. Given the sensitivity of losses to stocking rate, field trials to estimate pest or weed effects should assess their impact on stocking rate rather than their effect on productivity at a fixed stocking rate whose relationship to the theoretical optimum is unknown. The equilibrium model is shown to apply to seasonal pastures, but regular variations in growth rate reduce productivity and increase stability, converting some discontinuously stable systems into continuously stable ones. The likelihood of discontinuous stability appears in any case remote. The 'laissez-faire' herbivore/vegetation model (the 'extensive' equivalent of the one described in this paper, with herbivore numbers varying) can not be applied to more than one herbivore.
24054460|Population size and structure of 52 isolated Nothofagus fusca stands were investigated in the lower Otira Valley, 3-6 km from a major population centre in the upper Taramakau catchment. The approximate age of N. fusca pioneer trees, estimated from partial increment cores and calculations based on diameter growth rates, indicated that nearly all isolated stands originated after 1600 AD, predominantly during the periods 1600-1760 AD and 1865-1910 AD. Age and location of pioneer trees from the latter time span suggest that their establishment was a result of human disturbance associated with European settlement of the region. Most of the sites occupied by the older N. fusca outliers are prone to intermittent natural disturbance, creating temporary gaps in the generally forested habitat. Reduced competition from both other tree species and ground cover in these habitats may have allowed establishment of N. fusca pioneer trees, but subsequent recruitment was limited except in floodplain stands. The comparatively abrupt regional geographical limit of N. fusca is discussed in relation to the local rainfall regime.
24060879|Banana passionfruit (Passiflora tripartita var. mollissima) is an invasive vine in New Zealand where it lacks its natural hummingbird pollinator. We investigated the mating system and reproductive traits that facilitate its spread in the Marlborough Sounds. Flower observations revealed that visitors were almost exclusively introduced honeybees and bumblebees, indicating an invasive mutualism. We investigated the pollination system of banana passionfruit by comparing fruit set, fruit size, seed set, and germination success between hand-selfed, hand-crossed, bagged and open flowers, and inbreeding depression in seedlings grown in competition. Fruit set was reduced by 83% when pollinators were excluded (3.0% fruit set, compared with 18.0% for unmanipulated flowers) indicating reliance on pollinators for reproduction. While banana passionfruit is partially self-compatible, fruit set was significantly reduced in hand-selfed flowers (17.5%) compared with crossed flowers (29.5%), and we found significant pollen limitation (hand-crossed vs unmanipulated, Pollen Limitation Index = 0.39). There was no significant inbreeding depression found in fruit size, seeds per fruit, germination success, seedling growth or seedling survival. Combining these data showed that natural unmanipulated flowers produce more seedlings per flower (1.7) than bagged flowers (0.9), but fewer than hand-selfed (3.0) and hand-crossed (5.3) flowers. Thus, reproduction in Passiflora tripartita var. mollissima is facilitated by an (imperfect) new association with exotic bees.
24053246|From the relationship of the number of bird species to land area in New Zealand, the expected number of moa species is about 8 to 12. Of these, half should have lived in forest and half in open habitats. This may help to explain the uneasiness biogeographers have felt with 28 described species of moas, and the question of whether they were forest birds or not.
24058127|Size, density and distribution of the brown garden snail (Cantareus aspersus) were observed relative to cover at a coastal reserve on the North Island, New Zealand. Cover variables depended on vegetation height and available debris (rubbish, wood, cow dung). Air temperature, ground temperature, and relative humidity were recorded continuously during the field survey for the various cover types. Live snails used debris disproportionately as resting habitat, where relative humidity and temperature were the least variable. Desiccation rates were obtained by dehydrating snails of three size-classes and calculating desiccation rates as a function of water loss over time under controlled conditions in the laboratory. Results suggest that the shell aperture:size ratio is an important factor regarding desiccation stress in C. aspersus, especially in young and small-sized snails.
24058141|The size and shape of the managed area for a threatened species to have a stable or growing population is a central issue for conservation management, for example for kiwi, Apteryx sp. Combining geometric probability results for retention of juveniles to breed in the protected area with a standard matrix population model allows the creation of an explicit relationship between the minimum area needed and how far juveniles of the species disperse to establish breeding territories. For a given set of demographic parameters for the population, and a rectangular protected area, there is a quadratic relationship between area and dispersal distance. Extensions for a circular protected area, and for a probability distribution on dispersal distance, are considered. The results are applied to kiwi, using established population parameters, giving results that match closely those from a previously published simulation. This approach can provide simple tools, readily implemented in a spreadsheet, for assessment of the size and shape of protected areas needed in conservation management of animals that disperse before breeding.
24053736|Dactylanthus taylorii, a root parasite in the family Balanophoraceae, is New Zealand's only fully parasitic flowering plant. It grows attached to the roots of a wide range of hardwood trees and shrubs, often in fire-induced secondary forest on the margin of podocarp-hardwood forest. It is inconstantly dioecious with a skewed sex ratio of approximately 5:1 male to female inflorescences. The inflorescences, especially the males, contain a large quantity of nectar, up to 1.6 ml, and can produce 0.5 ml per day for 10 days. The morphology of the inflorescences, the quantity and chemistry of the nectar, time-lapse video monitoring and other evidence suggest that the Dactylanthus flowers are adapted for pollination by short-tailed bats. Ship rats are also effective pollinators but occasionally destroy the inflorescences. Kiore completely destroyed all the inflorescences observed on Little Barrier Island in 1992 and 1993, although some seed was found there in 1991. Dactylanthus plants have been successfully cultivated by sowing seeds close to the roots of broadleaf plants. Germination was very slow with the highest rates occurring nearly five years after the seed was sown. Further research is needed to clarify the role of fungal hyphae found inside the cells of a young plant and that of the sheath processes which may assist vegetative reproduction. Video monitoring provided evidence that the introduced possum, by browsing the inflorescences, threatens the survival of Dactylanthus at most North Island sites. Where possums were present, and the plants unprotected, almost all the inflorescences were browsed. Adult plants at the main study site had a half-life of only 8.5 years. Conservation management to ensure the survival of Dactylanthus will require protection of the plants from possums, rats and humans and adequate areas of secondary forest containing abundant host plants.
24058097|Understanding resource selection by animals is important when considering habitat suitability at proposed release sites within threatened species recovery programmes. Multi-scale investigatory approaches are increasingly encouraged, as the patchy distribution of suitable habitats in fragmented landscapes often determines species presence and survival. Habitat models applied to a threatened New Zealand forest passerine, the South Island saddleback (Philesturnus carunculatus carunculatus), reintroduced to Ulva Island (Stewart Island) found that at landscape scale breeding pairs' preferences for sites near the coast were driven by micro-scale vegetation structure. We tested these results by examining models of breeding site selection by a reintroduced saddleback population on Motuara Island (Marlborough Sounds) at two scales: (1) micro-scale, for habitat characteristics that may drive breeding site selection, and (2) landscape scale, for variations in micro-scale habitat characteristics that may influence site colonisation in breeding pairs. Results indicated that birds on Motuara Island responded similarly to those on Ulva Island, i.e. birds primarily settled at the margins of coastal scrub and forest and later cohorts moved into larger stands of coastal forest where they established breeding territories. Plant species composition was also important in providing breeding saddleback pairs with adequate food supply and nesting support. However, Motuara Island birds differed in their partitioning of habitat use: preferred habitats were used for nesting while birds were foraging outside territorial boundaries or in shared sites. These differences may be explained because Motuara has a more homogeneous distribution of micro-scale habitats throughout the landscape and a highly bird-populated environment. These results show that resource distribution and abundance across the landscape needs to be accounted for in the modelling of densitybirdhabitat relationships. In the search for future release sites, food (invertebrates and fruiting tree species) should be abundant close to available nesting sites, or evenly spread and available throughout the landscape.
24052395|A census of the Himalayan thar (Hemitragus jemlahicus) in Carneys Creek, a tributary of the Havelock branch of the Rangitata River, was undertaken in 1965, when thar were at about peak density, and repeated in 1977. In the intervening 12 years, the population was hunted from the ground for recreation, and from helicopters for animal control purposes and commercially for meat. This paper describes the results of the two censuses and discusses the differences. The 1965 census was 710 thar, the 1977 census was 48 thar. This is a decrease of 93% from 32.9 animals/km2 (825 kg/km2) to 2.2 animals/km2 (56 kg/km2). One half of the thar seen in 1965 were in groups of 31 animals or more (mean group size 15.8), whereas the largest group seen in 1977 was of 7 animals (mean group size 3.2). Female-juvenile groups comprised more than 90% of the thar seen in both censuses.
24053652|Home range dimensions and habitat use by ship rats (Rattus rattus) at Puketi, a kauri (Agathis australis) forest in Northland, were examined by live capture and radio-tracking over five weeks in September and October 1993. Home ranges of six females and five males averaged 0.86 ha in area and 174 m in length, with no significant difference in range area or length between males and females. There was substantial overlap in ranges between and within sexes. One adult male increased the size of his range more than four-fold in seven nights in late October, coinciding with the beginning of the breeding season. Some rats changed daytime den sites frequently and others used the same den for a number of consecutive days; rats were found sharing dens on many occasions. Most rats returned to previously-used dens after denning elsewhere. At night, rats spent most of their time active on or close to the ground. There are a number of important differences between our findings and those from other studies of ship rats in New Zealand; we suggest that the different times of year at which the studies were carried out are responsible for some of these differences. Our results, with those of others, suggest that in winter rats of both sexes have 0.5-1.0 ha ranges, but that during the breeding season ranges of males increase while those of females stay similar in size. Trapping indices showed that ship rats were not evenly distributed in Puketi Forest. In December 1993, an aerial poison operation to control brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) was carried out over the study area, at which time five rats (three male, two female) still carried functioning radio-transmitters. The three males died within four hours on the night following the operation but the two females were alive three days later.
24052772|Poison was used at remote anchorages of southern Stewart Island in spring and summer of 1984/85 to reduce the likelihood of ship rats (Rattus rattus), Norway rats (R. norvegicus) and kiore (R. exulans) boarding fishing boats heading for the Snares Islands. Poison baits were removed at successively slower rates, probably because poisoning had reduced rat numbers. The effectiveness of poisoning was tested by (i) live-capturing and tracking marked rats at a simulated anchorage near Halfmoon Bay, (ii) poisoning there as in southern Stewart Island, and (iii) monitoring the survival and responses of the marked population. Population density approximated 2.0-2.5 ship rats per hectare before poisoning. The minimum monthly home range of ship rats averaged 0.54 ha (mean range length 142 m), which is much larger than previously recorded for ship rats in New Zealand. Neither Norway rats nor ship rats were restricted to the shoreline or along creeks. Poisoning caused a 93% reduction in an index of rat numbers in a 0.69 ha poisoning zone over 16 days, and a 76% reduction over the larger 10.4 ha effective trapping area including the poison zone. Poisoning reduces the risk of rats boarding boats, and can protect endangered plants and animals on infested islands.
24060826|Efficient detection techniques will confirm the presence of a species at a site where the species exists, and are essential for effective population monitoring and for assessing the outcome of management programmes. However, detection techniques vary in their ability to detect different species. A wide range of mammalian predator species, most introduced into New Zealand since the late 18th century, have had a detrimental impact on the native flora and fauna. To date, there has been little research to compare the efficiency of detection techniques for these species, especially in non-forest habitats. We used nine commonly-available techniques to survey for the presence of mammalian predators at 19 sites on the open, non-forested banks of the Rangitata River, a large braided river in the South Island, New Zealand. We compared the relative efficiency of the techniques using three metrics: raw detection rates, KaplanMeier survival analysis, and probability of detection. Techniques varied in their ability to detect eight species of mammalian predator. The most efficient detection techniques included large tracking tunnels and hair tubes for feral cats (Felis catus), large tracking tunnels for European hedgehogs (Erinaceus europaeus), and WaxTags for brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecula). Using our data to simulate a reduction in survey effort, we found that detection rates would be significantly reduced only when devices were at very low densities. We show also that 371 nights of monitoring are needed for a 90% probability of detection by our most efficient techniques. Our findings emphasise the merit of using more than one technique to detect a species, and we recommend that detection devices are left open for at least 10 nights. Finally, we highlight the need for further research to develop standardised monitoring protocols for introduced mammalian predators in New Zealand's non-forested habitats.
24056195|There are currently many attempts in New Zealand to restore native ecosystem functioning through the intensive control of introduced mammalian predators. One system that is faltering is bird pollination of endemic mistletoes (Peraxilla tetrapetala) by bellbirds (Anthornis melanura), apparently because of stoat (Mustela erminea) predation. We used a paired-catchment experiment in Nothofagus solandri var. cliffortioides forest at Craigieburn, central South Island, to measure whether stoat control could restore bellbird densities and mistletoe pollination. Stoat trapping for 1012 weeks during the 2000/01 and 2001/02 nesting seasons significantly reduced stoat abundance in the treatment area compared with the non-treatment area. As a consequence, bellbird nest survival and densities increased immediately and significantly in the treatment area. Nests in 2000/01 were four times more likely to succeed in the treatment area (66.4%) than in the non-treatment area (16.4%), where video monitoring showed stoats were the key predator. Bellbird numbers per 5-minute count increased 79%. Such a large response following a small-scale stoat control operation suggests that predators limited the Craigieburn bellbird population. Adult bellbirds seem to be less susceptible than eggs and chicks to predation, as bellbird densities were still significantly elevated 24 months after trapping ceased. However, the increase in bellbird densities did not significantly improve mistletoe pollination. Therefore, the stoat trapping was only partially successful in restoring ecosystem functioning.
24054511|The density of rabbits (Oryctolagus cuniculus) in the modified tussock grasslands of the Mackenzie Basin, South Island, New Zealand, in August-September 1991 was determined within 26 1-ha quadrats spread over 1000 ha. The area was poisoned with 1080-carrot baits and dead and live rabbits counted. The overall kill rate was 93%. Wide variability in rabbit densities amongst the quadrats was correlated with burrow density, but vegetation was not a significant predictor of rabbit numbers. High density quadrats were not all spatially clumped together. Variation amongst quadrats of 0-43% of rabbits dying underground shows that searching burrows as well as the surface will provide the most accurate rabbit densities. Poisoning efficacy was 90% in 77% of the quadrats, but two low-density quadrats recorded kill rates <70%. Nine per cent of carcasses had been partly eaten by predators, suggesting a potential for the predators to be killed during rabbit control operations via secondary poisoning. The average density of 19 rabbits per ha confirms the classification of this area as a moderate to high rabbit-prone zone, with the rabbit population imposing grazing pressure equivalent to at least 1-2 sheep per ha at the beginning of spring. Sustainable agriculture cannot be attained in these semi-arid regions of New Zealand without cheap, widespread and effective rabbit control.
24058174|This study assessed the level of utilization by mosquitoes of the available phytotelm habitats in indigenous forests in the Wellington region (New Zealand). The native epiphyte Collospermum hastatum was found to be the most abundant source of larval mosquito habitats in local native forests, but no mosquito larvae were recorded in the plants' leaf axils. Apart from these epiphytes, the local forests were found to have few natural breeding containers, and the only other relevant type of phytotelm habitat for mosquitoes was tree holes. The single mosquito species recorded was the exotic Ochlerotatus notoscriptus, whose larvae occurred in 23% (9/39) of the water-bearing tree holes in the region. The results provided some evidence that larval mosquito habitats in the region are underutilized.
24060809|New Zealand robins are thought to be vulnerable to poisoning by sodium fluoroacetate (1080), because individual birds found dead after aerial pest control operations have tested positive for 1080. We investigated the impacts of an aerial 1080 operation (preceded by non-toxic prefeeding) to control brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) on the survival and breeding success of a robin population at Silver Peaks, Dunedin environs, South Island, New Zealand. We monitored the survival of individual marked robins and their nesting success before and after the 1080 application. Robins were also monitored at a non-treatment site at nearby Silverstream. The possum control operation at Silver Peaks reduced rats (Rattus rattus), possums and mice (Mus musculus) to very low numbers, which remained low for at least 3 months. In contrast, at Silverstream, pest numbers remained high throughout the study. All individually colour-banded robins monitored in the treatment area (n = 19) plus five unbanded territorial birds were resighted post-drop, indicating that no known birds died as a direct result of the poison application. Nesting success in the treatment area, measured as daily survival rate, was higher than in the non-treatment area, and did not significantly differ between the breeding seasons before and after the poison drop. Our study showed that the 1080 operation did not adversely affect the robin population at Silver Peaks, but did reduce important nest predators (rats and possums) to low levels. Although there was no evidence of a positive indirect impact on nesting success through the reduction in predators, rat and possum abundances were relatively low at Silver Peaks (cf. Silverstream) prior to the 1080 drop, and vary from year to year. We recommend continued monitoring over several seasons to ascertain whether 1080 operations have any long-term benefits for robins at Silver Peaks.
24060734|Index counts are commonly used to detect spatial and temporal changes in the size of wildlife populations. For indices to be valid there must be constant (usually linear) relationship between the index and population size. In a study conducted in the Eglinton Valley (Fiordland, South Island, New Zealand), single-day index counts of common skinks (Oligosoma polychroma) from artificial retreats were compared with capturemarkrecapture (CMR) estimates of population size (N) obtained by pitfall trapping. Generalised linear models revealed that skink counts from artificial retreats provided a reasonably accurate (P < 0.05) and highly precise (P < 0.001) index of population size, but only if sampling was conducted under optimal weather conditions. Density ranged from 3639 (25916827; 95% CI) to 9245 (634616431) skinks ha1, which was high compared with other common skink populations. We recommend: (1) long-term monitoring of common skinks in the Eglinton Valley, using the index method described herein; (2) calibration of index counts against population size estimates collected from other habitats and species.
24060613|Figure of Eight Island is located in the southern end of the Auckland Islands and hosts the smallest breeding colony of New Zealand (NZ) sea lions (Phocarctos hookeri). Between 1995/96 and 2005/06, pup production in this colony decreased by 57% (from 144 to 62 pups). In contrast, there was a 30% decrease in pup production in the largest colony in the north-east of the Auckland Islands over the same period. NZ sea lions in the Auckland Islands area are subject to by-catch deaths and resource competition from subantarctic trawl fisheries. The present study investigated where four lactating females from Figure of Eight Island foraged during the austral summer of 2007/08 and compared their foraging areas with female NZ sea lions from the northern Auckland Islands breeding locations (Enderby and Dundas islands) and with fisheries activities. Females foraged south of Adams Island (the southernmost Auckland Island), predominantly at the edge of the Auckland Islands shelf, but those from Figure of Eight Island made shorter foraging trips within more concentrated areas than females from Enderby or Dundas islands. The 59 female NZ sea lions satellite-tracked to date from Figure of Eight, Enderby and Dundas islands foraged over the entire area of the Auckland Islands shelf and many (including three of the four females from Figure of Eight Island) had extensive overlap with subantarctic trawl fisheries. Further research is needed to determine whether the foraging behaviour of females from Figure of Eight Island is linked to their greater decline in pup production.
24054766|Large scale aerial poison operations with 1080-carrot baits are used extensively to control possum (Trichosurus vulpecula) populations in New Zealand forests for ecosystem conservation purposes and to stop the spread of bovine tuberculosis. Although various procedures have been implemented to reduce the incidence of bird kills, dead birds continue to be found after poison operations. Colour-banded North Island robins (Petroica australis longipes) were monitored in treatment and non-treatment areas to determine the costs and benefits of aerial 1080-carrot bait operations to robin populations. An August 1996 operation, that included much chaff or fine particles of bait, resulted in 43% mortality of territorial birds (banded and unbanded) or 55% mortality of colour-banded birds. During the same period there was no robin mortality in the non-treatment area. By comparison, the September 1997 operation, that included minimal amounts of chaff, resulted in just 8.6% and 9.7% robin mortality as determined by territory mapping and of banded birds, respectively. These levels of mortality did not differ significantly from that evident in the non-treatment area. Monitoring of possums and rats indicated that both populations were at very low densities and remained so during the robin nesting seasons (September-February) following the operations. Robin breeding was particularly successful in the treatment areas following the two poison operations (mean of 3.7 and 3.8 fledglings per pair) compared with that in the non-treatment area in 1996-97 (0.4 fledglings per pair) and in the post-treatment area in 1997-98 (1.5 fledglings per pair). Through recruitment of the fledglings, both populations had more robins and a greater proportion of females one year after the possum control operations than immediately before. Thus the results suggest that as long as carrot bait protocols are strictly adhered to and baits are distributed over large blocks of forest so that mammalian predator populations remain low during the next robin nesting season, the robin populations will benefit from aerial 1080-carrot possum control operations.
24060902|We developed a new automated recorder, powered by a 12-volt battery, to monitor activity patterns of wild animals marked with passive integrated transponders (PIT tags). The recorder was used to monitor Chatham Island taiko (Pterodroma magentae), a critically endangered seabird species with remote and dispersed breeding burrows. We collected information on annual return rates of individuals and pairs, dates of return and departure for the courtship and egg-laying periods, duration and dates of incubation shifts and also chick feeding visits. Taiko return to their burrows in September and October each year to mate. Return dates are independent of moon phase. Females can spend as little as one day ashore during the month-long courtship period. The pre-laying exodus averages 55 and 51 days for females and males respectively. The three main incubation shifts average 1415 days each but some shifts can be as long as 19 days. Adults feed their chicks 3235 times over a 3-month period, with males feeding their chicks more often than females. We discuss problems encountered during the development and field testing of the new PIT tag recorders, but also the benefits of these devices over conventional monitoring techniques for cavity-nesting birds.
24060712|Avian herbivores dominated New Zealand's pre-settlement terrestrial ecosystems to an unparalleled extent, in the absence of a terrestrial mammal fauna. Approximately 50% (88 taxa) of terrestrial bird species consumed plant foliage, shoots, buds and flowers to some degree, but fewer than half these species were major herbivores. Moa (Dinornithiformes) represent the greatest autochthonous radiation of avian herbivores in New Zealand. They were the largest browsers and grazers within both forest and scrubland ecosystems. Diverse waterfowl (Anatidae) and rail (Rallidae) faunas occupied forests, wetlands and grasslands. Parrots (Psittacidae) and wattlebirds (Callaeidae) occupied a range of woody vegetation types, feeding on fruits/seeds and foliage/fruits/nectar, respectively. Other important herbivores were the kereru (Columbidae), stitchbird (Notiomystidae) and two honeyeaters (Meliphagidae). Cryptic colouration, nocturnal foraging and fossil evidence suggest that avian populations were strongly constrained by predation. With the absence of migratory avian herbivores, plant structural, constitutive defences prevailed, with the unusual 'wire syndrome' representing an adaptation to limit plant offtake by major terrestrial avian browsers. Inducible plant defences are rare, perhaps reflecting long-standing nutrient-limitations in New Zealand ecosystems. Evidence from coprolites suggests moa were important dispersers of now rare, annual, disturbance-tolerant herb species, and their grazing may have maintained diverse prostrate herbs in different vegetation types. The impact of moa on forest structure and composition remains speculative, but many broadleaved woody species would likely have experienced markedly reduced niches in pre-settlement time. Several distinctive avian-mediated vegetation types are proposed: dryland woodlands, diverse turf swards, coastal herb-rich low-forest-scrubland, and conifer-rich forests. Since human settlement (c. 750 yrs ago), c. 50% of endemic avian herbivore species or c. 40% overall have become extinct, including all moa, 60% of waterfowl and 33% of rail species. Numerically, avian herbivore introductions (c. 24 taxa) since European settlement have compensated for extinctions (c. 27 taxa), but the naturalised birds are mostly small, seed-eating species restricted to human-modified landscapes. Several naturalised species (e.g. Canada goose, Branta canadensis; brown quail, Coturnix ypsilophorus) may provide modes and levels of herbivory comparable with extinct species. The original avian and current introduced mammal herbivore regimes were separated by several centuries when New Zealand lacked megaherbivores. This 'herbivory hiatus' complicates comparisons between pre-settlement and current herbivore systems in New Zealand. However, predation, animal mobility, feeding mode, nutrient transfer patterns and soil impacts were different under an avian regime compared with current mammalian herbivore systems. Levels of ecological surrogacy between avifauna and introduced mammals are less evident. Ungulates generally appear to have impacts qualitatively different from those of the extinct moa. Because ofNew Zealand's peculiar evolutionary history, avian herbivores will generally favour the persistence of indigenous vegetation, while mammalian herbivores continue to induce population declines of select plant species, change vegetation regeneration patterns, and generally favour the spread and consolidation of introduced plant species with which they share an evolutionary history.
24058145|Damage by introduced brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) to Pinus radiata trees was assessed in 41 compartments of a commercial forestry plantation on the Coromandel Peninsula, New Zealand. All the trees assessed were less than 3 years old. Possum damage in the compartments was low (median prevalence 3.3%) but highly variable (range 030%). Eight of 37 measured habitat factors differed significantly (P < 0.05) between the sites with damaged and undamaged trees. The best predictor of mean damage was stand age, but this explained only 21% of the variation in damage among compartments. Including both stand age and New Zealand bracken (Pteridium esculentum) cover improved the model significantly and explained 36% of variation in damage. Damage was apparently unrelated to compartment size, distance from the compartment boundary, and possum den-site availability. Surprisingly, the relationship between browse damage and a trap-catch index of possum abundance was weakly negative (rs=0.53, P=0.05). The dense understorey associated with young pine stands tends to increase possum damage to associated P. radiata trees, but the possums in such stands may be less mobile at ground level and thus less easily trapped. Assessment of stand age and understorey characteristics, together with visual inspection for early signs of damage, is likely to be more cost-effective than possum surveys for identifying forest compartments at risk from possum browse.
24060743|The distinctiveness of New Zealand's large endemic orthopterans and lack of small mammals in our forest ecosystems led to the description of weta as ecologically equivalent to rodents in other countries. We review the use of this metaphor and the characteristics, such as diet and reproductive behaviour, given to support it. We note, however, that species are rarely specified when comparisons are made, thereby neglecting the ecological diversity of both weta and rodents. We suggest that if these taxa are to be compared, the details of their ecology are important and the scale of their influence in an ecosystem must be taken into account. We consider in particular the relevance of the 'invertebrate mouse' clich in understanding evolutionary ecology in New Zealand and find it misleading. We show that reproductive potential and scale of change in population size differ greatly between mice and tree weta. We find that endothermic mice (Mus musculus) have a metabolic rate almost 20 times faster than ectothermic tree weta (Hemideina sp.), an intrinsic rate of increase some 275 times higher, and consume a high quality diet dominated by seeds and invertebrates and devoid of leaves, in contrast to tree weta diets. Comparative quantitative analyses of the influence of different animals on ecosystem services, biomass, nutrient cycling and energy turnover of forests in New Zealand and elsewhere will contribute to interpretation of the evolutionary history of the New Zealand biota.
24053571|Stem density, basal area, vegetation cover and vegetation surface area were compared as measures of the proportions of plant species present in North Okarito Forest, South Westland, for use in determining bird preferences for plant species. In general, stem density estimates of the proportions of canopy species were about 10 times lower than basal area estimates. The converse was true for estimates of the proportions of sub-canopy and understorey species. The proportions estimated from vegetation cover and vegetation surface area were similar for most species, and were intermediate between the proportions estimated from stem density and basal area. However, in the upper forest tiers, vegetation cover gave lower estimates for the proportions of canopy species and higher estimates for the proportions of sub-canopy species than given by vegetation surface area. These differences affect calculation of bird preferences for plant species. We recommend vegetation surface area as a measure of the proportional availability of plant species to birds because it is appropriate to most birds in New Zealand forests, is likely to be more accurate than visual estimates of vegetation cover, and can be measured on the same plots separately for trunks, branches, foliage, and fruit.
24054751|We analysed biomass allocation of Pleurophyllum speciosum (Asteraceae) and Anisotome latifolia (Apiaceae) to explore the 'megaherb' phenomenon, the apparent importance of large-leaved, colourful forbs on southern oceanic offshore islands. The two species had similar shoot dry weights, with high leaf:stem ratios. Even within the megaherb form there are differences in shoot allocations, with Pleurophyllum investing more biomass in rhizome than foliage, compared with Anisotome. The megaherb form might be attributable to responses to the physical environment, involving the pre-emption of resources such as light, nutrients, water, or space; alternatively it may be related to the paucity of woody species at this latitude.
24052397|The Ecological Society supports in principle the reserve proposals being formulated by the Scientific Co-ordinating Committee for Beech Research and recognises the need for a continuation of the Committee's review of reserves. It doubts that proper notice has yet been taken of the needs of the indigenous avifauna or that typing of forests is sufficiently precise to ensure that representative areas can yet be delineated for reservation. The Society is emphatically opposed to reduction of existing and proposed reserve areas to meet short-falls in podocarp timber. The Society also endorses, in principle, parts of the new indigenous forest policy published by the Forest Service that relate to retention of native forest cover and sustained yield of podocarps and beech.
24056327|Reproductive phenology is likely to vary spatially with environmental conditions that alter microclimate, in particular temperature. We hypothesized that within the same plant community type, environmental changes produced by recent burning would alter plant phenological patterns and temporal structure of the plant community. Specifically, we predicted accelerated flowering and fruiting dates in the burned, open environment compared with the unburned, intact community. We tested this hypothesis in a post-fire tall shrubland (matorral) in northwestern Patagonia, Argentina. During the reproductive season, phenological stages of seven vascular plant species were monitored weekly. Temperature, humidity, soil nutrients and photosynthetically-active radiation were also recorded. At the burned site, flowering began earlier in all species and the success rate of fruiting was higher. These patterns correlated with significant environmental differences, including higher mean temperatures at the burned site.
24056326|We identified nest predators of two European thrush and three European finch species in the central North Island, New Zealand, using artificial clay eggs in active natural nests. The acceptance of the artificial egg by females was 75%, with low rates of female egg ejection (7%) or desertion (7%). Due to high predation rates we could not confirm the acceptance of six (11%) artificial eggs before predation occurred. Of the 57 nests that received an artificial egg 30 were preyed upon. We were able to successfully identify predators from 18 (60%) nests by imprints left in the artificial eggs, with rats (Rattus sp.), Australasian Harriers (Circus approximans) and Australian magpie (Gymnorhina tibicen) accounting for nine, eight and one of the predatory events respectively. In the remaining twelve predatory events imprints were too faint or no marks were left on the clay egg for identification. This study successfully demonstrates the use of an inexpensive, seldom-used method for quantifying and identifying nest predators, with low rates of nest abandonment and high rates of predator identification. We believe this method could add valuable information for future studies of nest predation in New Zealand.
24052601|Diels (1897) first put forward a climatic hypothesis for the origin of divaricating plants. This hypothesis has been elaborated by subsequent authors and is further extended herein. In contrast, Greenwood and Atkinson (1977) proposed that the divaricating shrub form evolved as a protection against moa-browsing. These two hypotheses are critically compared and it is concluded that the climatic hypothesis better explains the ecology, distribution and morphology of divaricating plants. Divaricating plants are adapted to existing non-forest and forest margin habitats and it is suggested that they arose during the harsh, near-treeless glacial periods of the Pleistocene. The main function of the divaricating form is to protect growing points and leaves from wind abrasion, desiccation and frost damage. Also, a favourable microclimate is maintained inside the shrub and this may permit higher rates of photosynthesis during periods of adverse weather. Distribution and ecology of divaricating plants are related to these factors. We consider divaricating plants evolved in New Zealand as one of the responses of a sub-tropical flora, isolated from sources of artic-, alpine-, and desert-adapted plants, to the onset of harsh glacial climates.
24056161|Three different models of bovine tuberculosis (Tb) in brushtail possums were evaluated against their stated purpose, and testable assumptions and predictions evaluated against available data where possible. Not surprisingly, two of the models may be falsified based on currently available data with respect to either important model assumptions or predictions, and the third may suffer from being right for the wrong reason. This does not mean that these models are not useful. To the contrary, I argue that all models, especially those published in the scientific literature have largely addressed their stated purpose, and have contributed to our understanding of and ability to manage bovine tuberculosis infection in brushtail possum populations. No model, however, satisfactorily explains the pronounced spatial clustering of possum Tb, and the models critiqued have provided little strong inference as to the routes of transmission of Tb among possums. This situation is not helped by the scarcity of datasets on Tb in uncontrolled possum populations that are readily available to confront competing possum/Tb models with. As time passes, there is a very real risk that these data sets will be lost. This is of particular concern, as the expansion in the area of New Zealand under active possum management means the future opportunity to collect further data on Tb in uncontrolled possum populations is severely limited.
24060699|Leaf lifespan varies widely among plant species, from a few weeks to >40 years. This variation is associated with differences in plant form and function, and the distribution of species along resource gradients. Longer leaf lifespans increase the residence time of nutrients and are one mechanism by which plants conserve nutrients; consequently, leaf lifespan should increase within species with declining soil nutrient availability. The Franz Josef chronosequence is a series of post-glacial surfaces along which soil fertility declines strongly with increasing soil age. We used this fertility gradient to test whether leaf lifespans of six common indigenous woody species increased as soil nutrient availability declined. Leaf lifespan varied from 12.4 months in Coprosma foetidissima (Rubiaceae) to 47.1 months in Pseudopanax crassifolius (Araliaceae). These leaf lifespans sample 12% of the full range of leaf lifespans reported globally and occupy a relatively conservative portion of global leaf trait space. Contrary to our expectations, leaf lifespan of two species (Pseudopanax crassifolius and Prumnopitys ferruginea) decreased by 4461 % with increasing soil age and there were no other relationships between soil age and leaf lifespan. Across all species, leaf nutrient residence times increased by 85% for N and 90% for P with declining soil fertility, but this was caused by increased nutrient resorption efficiency rather than by increased leaf longevity. These data demonstrate that plants increase leaf nutrient resorption efficiency rather than leaf lifespan as a within-species response to long-term declines in soil fertility.
24053650|The anti-predator behaviours of a New Zealand freshwater crayfish (Paranephrops zealandicus) to the native long-finned eel (Anguilla dieffenbachii) and the introduced brown trout (Salmo trutta) were investigated. Crayfish modified their behaviour in the presence of both trout and eels. However, a significantly greater number of defensive chela displays and swimming responses were made to eels than trout. Crayfish were able to use chemical cues from skin mucus to detect eels but not trout. Paranephrops zealandicus is able to make some appropriate defensive behavioural responses to the introduced brown trout as well as to its native predator, the long-finned eel. However, crayfish may be at greater risk from the introduced predator because of their apparent inability to detect trout using non-contact chemical cues. This may be a reflection of the different co-evolutionary histories crayfish have had with trout and eels.
24058187|Introduced brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) are controlled over large parts of New Zealand to protect canopy trees. The condition of canopy trees is one of the cues used to trigger possum control, but selecting an indicator of canopy tree condition is difficult because many factors unrelated to possum browsing can affect canopy condition, and indices based on canopy scoring may not always quickly detect real changes in possum herbivory. We therefore investigated the usefulness of the percentage of fallen mahoe (Melicytus ramiflorus) and kamahi (Weinmannia racemosa) leaves browsed by possums ('fallen-leaf browse' or 'FLB') as a trigger for control aimed at protecting these tree species. We collected leaves falling from kamahi and mahoe trees every two months for two years at two study areas in the central North Island, one with initially high possum abundance (Oriuwaka) and the other with low possum abundance (Otupaka). We classified each of 92 384 leaves as either not-browsed, possum-browsed or insect-browsed. There was a strong and similar seasonal pattern in the mean number of fallen leaves per tree for both mahoe and kamahi at both study areas; fewest leaves fell in winter, and the most leaves fell in spring and early summer. Mahoe and kamahi FLB exhibited a similar seasonal pattern at both areas, being lowest in winter and highest in spring and early summer. FLB for both mahoe and kamahi declined following control of possums to low densities at Oriuwaka. The proportion of fallen mahoe and kamahi leaves browsed by possums was small compared with those browsed by insects or not browsed. We show that spring/early summer (i.e. SeptemberDecember) is the best period for sampling FLB and that the mean FLB can be estimated with a CV of 20% if one trap is randomly placed under the canopy of each of 24 randomly located trees. However, CVs were much larger in other seasons and when possum abundance was low. We consider FLB to be a sensible trigger for initiating possum control when the objective of control is to protect canopy trees, but further work is needed to determine the relationships between possum abundance, FLB, canopy condition, and key tree demographic rates.
24053672|The preferences of a captive herd of goats with feral ancestry were evaluated for 11 artificial pest control baits and commercial stock feed pellets. A commercial stock food pellet (based on barley, bran, and oats) was the most preferred basic bait. A mixture of 2% diced Griselinia littoralis (broadleaf) leaves (a preferred natural food plant) and 2% molasses (per weight of basic bait) increased palatability of this basic bait. The best lured bait was aerially sown at 1 kg ha1 in a 380 ha area with about 50 feral goats. Only 25% of the goats were shown by the biological tracer iophenoxic acid to have eaten baits after 8 days. We conclude that one-hit aerial poisoning of goats is unlikely to be effective as a control method because most goats are unlikely to eat food from off the ground.
24060664|It is usually uncertain when to declare success and stop control in pest eradication operations that rely on successive reductions of the population. We used the data collected during a project to eradicate feral cats from San Nicolas Island, California to estimate both the number of cats remaining towards the end of the project, and the amount and type of surveillance effort required to declare successful eradication after the last known cat was removed. Fifty seven cats were removed between June 2009 and April 2010 and our model estimated that there was a 95% chance that a further 1 to 4 cats remained, with 1 cat being the most likely number. After this time a further two cats were detected and removed and the model predicted this outcome with a probability of 0.25. If managers wished to confirm eradication success at this point, we estimated that 55 km of effort searching for recent evidence of cats over the whole island without detecting any would provide 99% certainty that no cats remained (stopping rule 1). Alternatively, the optimal amount of search effort for evidence that minimized the joint cost of searching and the cost of wrongly declaring eradication was 75 km (stopping rule 2). The equivalent amount of camera-nights (26 cameras were available) required to declare successful eradication were 416 (stopping rule 1) and 1196 camera nights (stopping rule 2). During the confirmation phase, 270 km of sign search effort and 3294 camera-nights surveillance were used from late June 2010, when the last cat was removed, through August 2010, without detecting signs of survivors. Managers can be very confident that eradication has been successful.
24054768|This study was initiated in response to concerns that vertebrate pest control operations in New Zealand may be having deleterious impacts on invertebrate populations and, secondarily, on insectivorous non-target vertebrate populations. Invertebrates feeding on non-toxic baits of the types used for vertebrate pest control were collected and identified. The bait types were diced carrots and three types of cereal-based baits (No.7, RS5, and AgTech). The study was conducted in two rata/kamahi dominated forests (Bell Hill Scenic Reserve and Kopara Forest, West Coast), in July and September 1996. The most common species found on baits was the ant Huberia brouni (Hymenoptera: Formicidae). Other common taxa were Orthoptera (at least eight species of weta including Zealandosandrus aff. gracilis, Gymnoplectron sp., and Pleioplectron sp.), Coleoptera (at least nine species of beetles including Saphobius nitidulus, Nestrius sp., and Phrynixus sp.), Dermaptera (at least one species of the earwig Parisolabis sp.), Opiliones (at least three species of harvestmen), and Acarina (at least three species of mites). The ants and weta were found predominately on cereal-based baits, and the beetles, earwigs, harvestmen, and mites predominantly on carrot baits. More invertebrates were found on carrot and RS5 cereal-based baits than on the other two bait types, and more on baits at night than during the day. Fewer invertebrates were found on cinnamon-flavoured baits (used for 1080-poisoning of possums) than on plain baits (used for brodifacoum-poisoning of rodents). The number of species and number of individual invertebrates found on baits were a small proportion of the number likely to be present in the forest litter. We predict that vertebrate pest control operations are unlikely to have any long-term deleterious impacts on invertebrate populations. This prediction should be tested by monitoring populations of invertebrate species, found to eat baits, during vertebrate pest control operations.
24060714|Worldwide declines in bird numbers have recently renewed interest in how well birdplant mutualisms are functioning. In New Zealand, it has been argued that bird pollination was relatively unimportant and bird-pollination failure was unlikely to threaten any New Zealand plants, whereas dispersal mutualisms were widespread and in some cases potentially at risk because of reliance on a single large frugivore, the kereru (Hemiphaga novaeseelandiae). Work since 1989, however, has changed that assessment. Smaller individual fruits of most plant species can be dispersed by mid-sized birds such as tui (Prosthemadera novaezelandiae) because both fruits and birds vary in size within a species. Only one species (Beilschmiedia tarairi) has no individual fruits small enough for this to occur. Germination of 19 fleshy-fruited species, including most species with fruits >8 mm diameter, does not depend on birds removing the fruit pulp. The few studies of fruit removal rates mostly (7 out of 10) show good dispersal quantity. So dispersal is less at risk than once thought. In contrast, there is now evidence for widespread pollen limitation in species with ornithophilous flowers. Tests on 10 of the 29 known native ornithophilous-flowered species found that in 8 cases seed production was reduced by at least one-third, and the pollen limitation indices overall were significantly higher than the global average. Birds also frequently visit flowers of many other smaller-flowered native species, and excluding birds significantly reduced seed set in the three species tested. So pollination is more at risk than once thought. Finally, analyses of both species numbers and total woody basal area show that dependence on bird pollination is unexpectedly high. Birds have been recorded visiting the flowers of 85 native species, representing 5% of the total seed-plant flora (compared with 12% of those with fleshy fruit) and 30% of the tree flora (compared with 59% with fleshy fruit). A higher percentage of New Zealand forest basal area has bird-visited flowers (37% of basal area nationally) than fleshy fruit (31%). Thus, bird pollination is more important in New Zealand than was realised, partly because birds visit many flowers that do not have classic "ornithophilous" flower morphology.
24053175|Two morphological types of brushtail possum (Trichosurus vulpecula) were introduced to New Zealand: smaller, grey possums from mainland southeastern Australia, and larger, black possums from Tasmania. Analysis of patterns of allozyme variation and allele frequencies of present-day possum populations in New Zealand and southeastern Australia indicates that populations comprised predominantly of black possums remain genetically similar to possums in Tasmania, whereas predominantly grey populations are genetically closer to Victorian and New South Wales possums. The distribution of possums in New Zealand can be accounted for at least partly by selection of stock types with respect to climate. Genetic differences between populations may have important implications for the control of possums, because Tasmanian possums have a greater resistance than mainland southeastern Australian possums to 1080 poison (sodium monofluoroacetate), which is commonly used to control possums in New Zealand.
24055347|We agree with Williams' (2003) response to our previous paper (Dungan et al., 2002) whereby data is presented in support of the contention that we overstated our argument that possums may be the only dispersal vector for large-seeded native New Zealand species. We contend that this does not alter our overall conclusions, but agree that additional work is needed to balance any potential positive effects of possums as seed dispersers against their significant negative impacts on forested ecosystems.
24058214|The kukupa or New Zealand pigeon (Hemiphaga novaeseelandiae) is gradually declining on the New Zealand mainland, due mostly to predation by introduced pest mammals including ship rats (Rattus rattus) and brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecula). We report on a co-operative project between Maori landowners, the Department of Conservation, and Manaaki WhenuaLandcare Research researchers to restore a Northland kukupa population and to examine kukupa nesting success in relation to pest abundance. Ship rats and possums were targeted by trapping and poisoning throughout Motatau Forest (350 ha) from 1997 to 1999; only possums were targeted in 2000. All 13 kukupa nests located before pest control started in late 1997 failed at the egg stage, but all seven nests located in 199899 successfully fledged young when trapping and tracking indices of possums and ship rats were less than 4%. After pest control, counts of kukupa and some other bird species increased at Motatau compared with counts in a nearby non-treatment block, suggesting numbers of adult kukupa can be increased in small forest areas by intensive pest control. This increase is due at least partly to increased nest success. Evidence from time-lapse video cameras, sign remaining at nests, and nest success rates under different pest control regimes suggest both ship rats and possums are important predators at kukupa nests.
24054461|This paper reviews current knowledge of dynamic processes in New Zealand land-water ecotones drawing on published quantitative data wherever possible. Basic ecosystem processes in forested and natural unforested land-water ecotones are compared, and dynamic processes are discussed under the following headings: time scales of change; water movement; sediment trapping and transport; dissolved nutrient dynamics; dissolved oxygen; trophic interactions. Environmental "resetting" agents such as floods, fires and storms have been shown to be important regulators of change at the land-water interface. However, an element of stability is imparted by continuous allochthonous inputs from evergreen vegetation into the water at the interface, as well as an important contribution from terrestrial insects. Stable isotope studies have shown that such inputs are translated as a carbon source through aquatic food chains in some New Zealand streams. Dynamics of sediment movement and nutrients are governed by the complex patterns of water movement along the ecotone. Patterns of water movement at this interface are controlled by obstructions to flow providing eddies and "dead zones". Manning's coefficient of drag is a convenient measure of the degree of obstruction by aquatic vegetation, fallen branches etc. Nutrient dynamics along the land-water interface of lakes and streams are affected not only in moving surface water, but also in groundwater. New Zealand studies have, in recent years, concentrated on nitrogen pathways in ground waters at the interface where denitrification is shown to be an important N sink. This is controlled largely by dissolved oxygen and prevailing redox conditions. Implications for management of New Zealand land-water ecotones where ecosystem dynamics are governed by periodic physical disruptions such as floods, fires or dry-wet cycles are discussed.
24060849|Translocation to island reserves is a common strategy in New Zealand and elsewhere for safeguarding species against introduced predators. When successful, however, the closed nature and relatively small size of many island sanctuaries can result in populations quickly reaching their carrying capacity, which in itself can present further challenges such as reduced productivity and population growth rates associated with density-dependent effects as well as increased rates of inbreeding. As part of its management strategy, small numbers of the highly endangered takahe (Porphyrio hochstetteri) were translocated during the 1980s and 90s from the last remaining natural population on the mainland of New Zealand to four offshore islands where introduced predators had been eradicated. We used logistic regression and generalised linear models to assess trends in population growth and recruitment and to evaluate whether the island metapopulation displays density-dependent effects on productivity. Our results indicate that the island metapopulation appears to have reached its carrying capacity, as reflected in an increasing ration of non-breeding to breeding adults, and recent declines in juvenile production. These density-dependent effects are likely to constrain management strategies aimed at maintaining genetic diversity and minimising inbreeding. A recommendation to increase the immigration rate of takahe onto islands via translocations of birds from the source population on the mainland may be ineffective unless surplus birds are removed.
24052613|The gizzard contents of 57 pipits and 64 skylarks collected from December 1973 to April 1976 at Huiarua Station, Tokomaru Bay are described. Pipits fed mostly on invertebrates; in only nine percent of the gizzards did the volume of seeds exceed that of invertebrates. Adult Coleoptera, Hymenoptera and Diptera occurred in 77%, 67% and 63% of the gizzards respectively while adult insects of three other orders, insect larvae, insect pupae, Arachnida and seeds of four plant families were each recorded less frequently but in 10% or more of the gizzards. Only Diptera displayed significant seasonal variation in frequency of occurrence. Skylarks ate mostly seeds; only 25% of the gizzards contained a volume of invertebrates equal to or exceeding that of seeds. Seeds of Gramineae occurred more frequently than those of any other plant family (in 73% of the skylark gizzards) and adult Coleoptera were the most frequent invertebrates (66%). Seeds of eight other plant families, adult insects of two other orders, insect larvae, insect pupae and Arachnida were each recorded in 10% or more of the gizzards. Seasonally, only Coleoptera were taken with significantly variable frequency. In addition to the difference in the relative importance volumetrically of invertebrates and seeds in each diet, significant differences were determined between pipits and skylarks in the occurrence of all the food groups most frequently consumed by each and it is concluded that the level of interspecific competition for food can not be regarded as high.
24060636|Vegetation and soils were sampled at remaining gumland heath ecosystems in northern New Zealand to determine vegetation patterns, environmental controls and major threats to long-term persistence. Classification and ordination techniques identified six vegetation types reflecting differences in drainage, rainfall, altitude, nutrients, and time since fire. Two modal types reflected opposite ends of the main environmental spectra. Leptospermum scoparium (Myrtaceae) shrubland occurred on relatively better drained sites with lower rainfall, altitude, and soil nutrient levels, whereas Gleichenia dicarpa (Gleicheniaceae) fernland typically occurred on more poorly drained sites with higher rainfall, altitude, and nutrient levels. Another widespread vegetation type dominated by both Leptospermum scoparium and Gleichenia dicarpa occupied plots of intermediate drainage, rainfall, altitude and nutrients. The three remaining types were of limited distribution and reflected uncommon combinations of environmental conditions or recent fire. Low soil nutrients in gumlands (mean total N = 0.182%, total P = 0.004%, oven-dry weight) are reflected in low Leptospermum scoparium foliage nutrients (mean total N = 0.858%, total P = 0.034%, 15N = 6.06, oven-dry weight) and slow growth rates (mean annual height growth rate = 11.90 cm year1), as in heathlands in Australia and South Africa. Gumlands are threatened by non-native plant species invasion, especially Hakea sericea (Proteaceae); habitat destruction for agricultural, industrial, and suburban development; and nutrient enrichment from adjacent agricultural land. Currently, fire is much less common in gumlands (mean time since fire = 18.4 years) than during early European settlement and some communities are apparently reverting to forest. Research to investigate the use of fire as a management tool is recommended for long-term conservation of New Zealand gumlands.
24058221|Five-minute bird counts were made on Rangitoto Island in 1998 and 1999, 8 and 9 years after the start, and 1 and 2 years after the completion of a 7-year programme that resulted in eradication of the introduced brushtail possum (Trichosurus vulpecula) and brushtailed rock wallaby (Petrogale penicillata). These were compared with counts made in 1990 (immediately before the start of the programme), to assess whether bird species diversity and abundance had increased as a result of the eradications. The number of bird species detected in 1998/99 was similar to 1990. Five-minute counts of all species except silvereye (Zosterops lateralis) and tui (Prosthemadera novaeseelandiae) were also similar in 1998/99 to those in 1990. Silvereye and tui counts increased significantly. This is most likely a response to increased flowering of pohutukawa (Metrosideros excelsa) and rewarewa (Knightia excelsa) as a result of possum (and wallaby) eradication. The most likely reason for no apparent increase in the abundance of other bird species is the continued presence of predators, especially ship rats (Rattus rattus), cats (Felis catus), and stoats (Mustela erminea).
24053266|To test the hypothesis that the divaricate habit protects internal leaves from cold and dry conditions, and raises leaf temperatures on cold sunny days, thermocouples were attached to internal and external leaves on divaricate plants. For Coprosma propinqua plants at Cass, inland Canterbury, there were consistent differences in temperature between leaves, but these were not simply related to their canopy position (internal vs. external). While leaf temperatures fell as low as 9.5C on frosty nights, internal leaves were not consistently warmer (between 0.28C warmer and 0.04C colder) than external leaves. Consistent differences in temperature between leaves were not clearly related to their position or degree of exposure. Internal leaves near the top of the canopy were often close in temperature to external leaves at the same height. Specific humidity was higher inside the bush than outside, but again the effect was small. On calm, sunny winter days, internal leaves were usually slightly cooler than external leaves. For Hoheria angustifolia on the Port Hills, there was only a slight temperature difference between internal and external leaves (0.3 to 0.5C). Overall, the temperature and humidity data give little support to the climate hypothesis. However, there was more damage (apparently due to frost) to Coprosma propinqua leaves on the outside of bushes over winter 1989, suggesting that the biological significance of the divaricate habit may be greater than these physical data would indicate.
24056344|Brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) tend to eat young canopy foliage in southern rt (Metrosideros umbellata), and browsing tends to be concentrated on only a few trees. Samples collected as part of an artificial defoliation experiment were analysed for NPK (nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium), carbohydrate, and polyphenolic concentrations to determine whether changes in foliar chemistry associated with defoliation provide an explanation for these patterns of browsing. In non-defoliated trees, NPK concentrations were highest in young leaves and declined with age, while concentrations of carbohydrates and polyphenolics were independent of leaf age. Nitrogen, phosphorus and polyphenolic concentrations were consistently higher in canopy (sun) versus subcanopy (shade) foliage regardless of leaf age, a trend that was reversed for potassium. Partial (50%) defoliation had little effect on foliar chemistry, regardless of its timing. Total (100%) defoliation stimulated NPK concentrations and depressed condensed tannin concentrations of new foliage produced by the surviving shoots. These results suggest that brushtail possums may focus their feeding on only a few trees because of nutritional changes to leaves as a result of browsing.
24058220|Negative effects of human presence and activities on breeding success and survival of many water bird species are well documented. The New Zealand dabchick (Poliocephalus rufopectus) is a protected endemic New Zealand grebe, confined to the North Island mainland and classified as vulnerable. A third of the total New Zealand dabchick population live on the lakes of the central volcanic plateau, where there is potential conflict between humans and dabchicks. We used data from two independent surveys describing the distribution of New Zealand dabchicks to investigate the effect that human-made structures (i.e. jetties and houses) and human recreational activities (i.e. boating) have on the numbers of New Zealand dabchick pairs, chicks and nests in the bays of Lake Rotoiti, Tarawera and Okareka. Our results suggest that human-made structures and recreational activities are not significantly affecting the numbers and distribution of New Zealand dabchick pairs or nests at this time. Furthermore, the number of human-made structures was positively correlated with the number of chicks in the sampled bays. Humans and dabchicks may be distributed similarly around the lakes because factors such as wind exposure and shoreline topography made certain sites preferable for both species. Alternatively, human-made structures may provide protected nesting environments and/or cover for chicks from predators, refuges from harassment by other bird species, or other benefits. Pairs may therefore be able to raise chicks to the fledging stage more successfully. However, little is currently known about dabchick life history or population dynamics. We recommend that a method of capturing and marking be developed so that further monitoring of behavioural and population changes can be carried out. It is also necessary to conduct research on how boats and human activities at jetties affect incubating dabchicks and their young during the nesting phase.
24054550|To determine the susceptibility of different forest types to lianes, and to investigate which ecological factors are limiting for lianes, a field survey covering 28 naturally forested sites in Golden Bay (Northwest Nelson) and on Banks Peninsula (Canterbury) was carried out. Results from Detrended Canonical Correspondence Analysis of liane species abundance data in relation to tree and shrub species abundance data and abiotic site variables, showed that the liane community composition was highly correlated with the composition of the tree and shrub community. Forest remnants with introduced lianes in the canopy were characterised by high soil pH, low altitude and high mean temperatures. Native lianes were more widespread geographically and showed a wider ecological tolerance range than introduced lianes. Native liane species were found in both early successional and mature forest, whereas introduced lianes occurred more often with early-successional vegetation. Forest canopy height was also an important factor affecting liane distribution and abundance. Both climbing mechanism and liane stem longevity seemed to affect the height of canopy accessible to lianes. The three twining lianes with longer-lived woody stems (Muehlenbeckia australis, Parsonsia spp. and Ripogonum scandens) reached higher host canopies than a twiner with herbaceous stems (Calystegia tuguriorum), a tendril climber (Passiflora mollisima), and a hook climber (Rubus cissoides). The susceptibility of individual tree and shrub species to canopy invasion by lianes was affected both by the light environment of the potential host, and the architectural properties (height and support availability) of the host.
24060764|Bryophytes are widespread in many plant communities and can attain cover and biomass levels that influence ecosystem processes. We investigated the impact of disturbance (fire, topsoil removal) on the composition, biomass, and water storage capacity of bryophytes in indigenous temperate tall-tussock grasslands managed to sustain an ecosystem service (regular provision of water) to nearby urban areas. We surveyed bryophyte composition, structure and water-related traits 9 years after experimental fires and topsoil removal. Total water storage capacity of non-epiphytic bryophytes in control grassland sites was estimated at 4.3 mm, a value similar to that found in temperate New Zealand forests. Total biomass, species composition, and water-related traits were the main drivers of water storage potential from bryophytes. A major shift in bryophyte species composition following disturbances reduced this potential by over 80%. Bryophyte community changed from a dense ground cover (71%) of the pleurocarpous moss Hypnum cupressiforme with high water holding capacity (c. 1400% of dry mass) in control plots, to low frequency of the colonist moss Polytrichum juniperinum in burned plots, and two Campylopus species in areas with topsoil removed for firebreaks (all three displaying a low water holding capacity of less than 800% dry mass). We concluded that despite their low species diversity (12 species in total in undisturbed sites), bryophytes form a major, previously unrecognised, component of indigenous tall-tussock grasslands in New Zealand, and contribute towards sustaining the valued water holding capacity of these systems. Like the tussock dominants, bryophytes and their associated ecological functions are highly susceptible to long-term impacts from burning and vegetation clearance. It is therefore critical to account for the recovery of bryophytes in the management of indigenous tall-tussock grasslands to maintain healthy ecosystems.
24052771|Withdrawal of the use of cheap, persistent organochlorine insecticides in New Zealand pastures has shifted the emphasis of insect pest control to non-chemical methods during the last 10-15 years. The potential of plant resistance and biological control for achieving major advances in pasture pest management are illustrated by the resistance to Argentine stem weevil (Listronotus bonariensis) of ryegrasses infected by the endophytic fungus Acremonium loliae, the reduction of Australian soldier fly (Inopus rubriceps) populations to subeconomic levels by invertebrate predators, and the effects of pathogens on grass grub (Costelytra zealandica) populations.
24054656|Five herbivorous introduced mammals are sympatric in the central Southern Alps. All of these species have the potential to affect conservation values, yet the Department of Conservation at present monitors and mitigates the impacts of only one. We outline ecological arguments for multi-species management of sympatric herbivore pest impacts and use the two-species system of sympatric thar and chamois to highlight the need for multi-species management of the central Southern Alps alpine pest community.
24060779|Agathis australis (A. australis, New Zealand kauri, Araucariaceae) exerts a substantial influence on soil properties and nutrient cycling, and mature specimens form an acidic organic soil layer beneath them that can be up to 2 m deep. We investigated whether phytotoxic compounds occurred in A. australis leaf litter and organic soil, and whether allelopathy may explain the distinctiveness of plant communities surrounding A. australis. We extracted water-soluble compounds from fresh litter, and conducted bioassays of seed germination and seedling growth in these extracts on both A. australis-associated and non-associated species. Germination of all species except A. australis was inhibited by extracts from A. australis litter, which probably contains phytotoxic compounds. Germination of a forest species that is not associated with A. australis was inhibited by the low pH organic soils collected from beneath mature A. australis, but when these soils were neutralised using lime, its germination was not inhibited. Lactuca sativa, a species highly sensitive to phytotoxic compounds, was negatively affected by both the low pH of the organic soil and the presence of phytotoxic compounds. In contrast, there was no effect of the organic soil on the germination and growth of A. australis-associated species. These results suggest that the high acidity of A. australis organic soil plays a considerable role in structuring the composition of plant communities associated with A. australis, and also that A. australis litter probably contains unidentified phytotoxic compounds that may exert additional direct allelopathic effects on sensitive species.
24056433|Extra-pair copulation (EPC) occurs frequently in hihi (stitchbird), Notiomystis cincta, resulting in a high rate of extra-pair paternity. It occurs despite resistance by females, and is often witnessed by the paired male. We studied male behaviour to assess whether extra-pair males were timing copulation attempts to coincide with peaks in female fertility, and whether paired males were behaving in ways to reduce cuckoldry. Extra-pair males concentrated copulation attempts at peaks in female fertility. Paired males attempted to defend their paternity by defending an area around the nest site, by territorial calling and displacing intruding males. The frequency of EPC attempts varied between nests and this variation mirrored closely the variation in the percentage of extra-pair paternity. Potential additional paternity guards, such as frequent copulation, did not occur in this population.
24052821|Three pairs of kiwis were fitted with radio transmitters and followed for two years in a forest remnant in Hawke's Bay. Laying began in late June or July, when both sexes reached peak weight, and usually finished in November. Twelve of 14 nests were in burrows, 470-900 mm long. Females laid 2-5 eggs each season, 21-60 days apart; clutches which failed in the first few weeks of incubation were replaced. Completed clutches comprised two eggs. A second clutch laid after the first had successfully hatched was recorded only once. Males did all of the incubating and emerged every night to feed, except when chicks were hatching. Their feeding bouts averaged 4.9 h, about half the feeding time of non-incubating kiwis. The weights of both sexes declined during the breeding season  females by about 20% and males by about 13%. Only 6 of 21 eggs laid in the two years hatched. One chick died while hatching, and two died soon afterwards. Three fledged 16-20 days after hatching, giving a productivity of 0.5 chicks/pair/year. The breeding behaviour and mating system of kiwis in Hawke's Bay are discussed.
24058123|It has been suggested that plants can change soil characteristics via their litter to favour their own species. The New Zealand kauri tree (Agathis australis) presents an interesting case for studying such a positive feedback between plant and soil because it has a huge impact upon the soil. We hypothesised that, under mature kauri trees, compared with sites outside the projection of the crown, seedlings of angiosperm trees are relatively rare, while kauri seedlings are relatively common, due to the poor soil conditions and the higher light intensity. We counted seedlings under and outside the crowns of kauri trees and correlated the presence of these seedlings to measured site conditions. The results confirm the hypotheses and indicate that the establishment of kauri seedlings is favoured by the open canopy and high light intensities below kauri. The low nutrient availability under kauri appears to be unfavourable for the survival of angiosperm seedlings but not for the survival of kauri seedlings. Since the lower nitrogen availability under kauri is due to sequestration of nitrogen in the organic layer under kauri, a positive feedback between kauri and the soil is likely.
24060717|New Zealand forests grow under highly oceanic climates on an isolated southern archipelago. They experience a combination of historical and environmental factors matched nowhere else. This paper explores whether the New Zealand tree flora also differs systematically from those found in other temperate and island areas. A compilation of traits and distributions from standard floras is used to compare the New Zealand tree flora with those of Europe, North America, Chile, southern Australia, Fiji and Hawaii. New Zealand has a large number of trees (215 species 6 m in height). It is more tree-rich than temperate North America and Europe having up to 50% more species at a quadrat scale of 2.5 latitude  2.5 longitude. However, this richness is due to a greater abundance of small trees (15 m in height) and we argue that it is a legacy of allopatric speciation and radiation during the late Neogene (2.510 million yrs ago) when the New Zealand landmass was repeatedly split into smaller island groups and mountain building occurred. The leaves of New Zealand trees, along with those of southeast Australia, are smaller and narrower than those of the temperate northern hemisphere. Dominance of the canopy by small-leaved evergreen conifers and angiosperms may have facilitated the persistence of small tree species in the lower canopy. The proportion of tree species with a deciduous or divaricating habit, and toothed-margin leaves, increases with latitude, suggesting a link with lower winter temperatures in the south. Tree species richness decreases with increasing latitude and, in conformity with Rapoport's Rule, latitudinal range width increases. Wide-range trees are mainly bird-dispersed, fast-growing seral small trees, or long-lived, tall podocarps. Wide-range trees appear to have no greater tolerance of climate extremes than narrow-range trees, and their persistence at high latitudes derives from their enhanced colonization ability.
24058196|Browsing by introduced brushtail possums is linked to major declines in mistletoe abundance in New Zealand, yet in some areas mistletoes persist, apparently unaffected by the presence of possums. To determine the cause of this spatial variation in impact I investigated the abundance and condition (crown dieback and extent of possum browse cover) of two mistletoes (Alepis flavida, Peraxilla tetrapetala) and abundance and diet of possums in two mountain beech (Nothofagus solandri var. cliffortioides) forests in the central-eastern South Island of New Zealand. Mistletoe is common and there are long-established uncontrolled possum populations in both forests. Mistletoes were abundant (2161359 per hectare) and important in possum diet (4159% of total diet), but possum density was low (c. 2 per hectare) in both areas. Possum impacts were slight with low browse frequencies and intensities over much of the study sites. However, impacts were significantly greater at a forest margin, where possum abundance was highest, and at a high-altitude site where mistletoe density was lowest. Mistletoe crown dieback was inversely proportional to intensity of possum browsing. These results suggest that the persistence of abundant mistletoe populations at these sites is due to mistletoe productivity matching or exceeding consumption by possums in these forests of low possum-carrying capacity, rather than low possum preference for the local mistletoe populations.
24055338|Artificial barriers, such as nest boxes and metal collars, are sometimes used, with variable success, to exclude predators and/or competitors from tree nests of vulnerable bird species. This paper describes the observed response of captive stoats (Mustela erminea) to a nest box design and an aluminium sheet collar used to protect kaka (Nestor meridionalis) nest cavities. The nest box, a prototype for kaka, was manufactured from PVC pipe. Initial trials failed to exclude stoats until an overhanging roof was added. All subsequent trials successfully prevented access by stoats. Trials with a 590 mm wide aluminium collar were less successful, but this was mainly due to restrictions enforced by enclosure design: Stoats gained access above the collar via the enclosure walls and ceiling. In only one of twelve trials was a stoat able to climb past the collar itself. The conservation implications of these trials and directions for future research are discussed.
24058204|Production lands make up 58% of Aotearoa New Zealand's landcover and contribute greatly not only to the national economy but also to patterns and trends in native and introduced avian biodiversity. However, unlike in native forest and other indigenous habitats, birds in agro-ecosystems have received little attention to date. We argue that this is due to (1) a research focus on understanding the causes of the dramatic decline of New Zealand's critically endangered, endemic species, (2) an adherence to a 'preservation for intrinsic value' over a 'conservation through sustainable use' paradigm for environmental management, and (3) a historical view of production landscapes as being devoid of endemic and native species and thus of no conservation value. In countering these attitudes, we suggest that the agricultural matrix may contain more native species than many people believe, and that many introduced bird species are key contributors to the social and environmental performance and resilience of these systems. We draw attention to the context, composition, ecology, and status of native and introduced birds in production landscapes in New Zealand, particularly in the face of ongoing agricultural intensification. We first identify the potential roles of local habitat, landscape composition, and introduced predators in shaping farmland bird communities. We then highlight the potential threats and opportunities for birds posed by ongoing intensification, particularly the influences of habitat modification and simplification, increased ecological subsidies through farm inputs, increased stocking rates and yields, and altered predatorprey interactions. We suggest the landscape is the appropriate spatial scale for research and management, and call for an integrated approach to the investigation of farmland birds that combines ecology, sociology, and agro-ecosystems management, and includes farmers, researchers, regulators, and the wider New Zealand public.
24058140|Native plants are an important part of New Zealand's uniqueness, and there is increasing awareness of the need to maintain these species in managed landscapes, particularly pastoral areas, in addition to the country's conservation lands. The most widely used method of establishing native plants is transplanting nursery-grown seedlings, and for many species, much experience and knowledge has been gained in using this technique. Establishment of native plants in the field by direct seeding is a potentially useful alternative techniquewhich has been evaluated in the North and South Islands only to a limited extent. This paper reviews the current state of knowledge on the direct seeding of species into pastoral areas. It covers site and species selection, seed availability and quality, site preparation, and post-sowing management. It also compares the economics of native plant establishment by transplanting and by direct seeding. Direct seeding of pastoral areas is a relatively cheap technique, but its general applicability is currently limited because of frequently inadequate supplies of viable seed, lack of knowledge on appropriate sowing times and rates, unreliable field germination and seedling emergence, and frequent intense competition from existing vegetation, particularly exotic grasses.
24060818|Less than 4% of the non-bamboo grasses worldwide abscise old leaves, whereas some 18% of New Zealand native grasses do so. Retention of dead or senescing leaves within grass canopies reduces biomass production and encourages fire but also protects against mammalian herbivory. Recently it has been argued that elevated rates of leaf abscission in New Zealand's native grasses are an evolutionary response to the absence of indigenous herbivorous mammals. That is, grass lineages migrating to New Zealand may have increased biomass production through leaf-shedding without suffering the penalty of increased herbivory. We show here for the Danthonioideae grasses, to which the majority (c. 74%) of New Zealand leaf-abscising species belong, that leaf abscission outside of New Zealand is almost exclusively a feature of taxa of montane and alpine environments. We suggest that the reduced frequency of fire in wet, upland areas is the key factor as montane/alpine regions also experience heavy mammalian grazing. Without frequent fire to remove dead leaves, detritus and woody competitors, evolution of leaf abscission is favoured, especially in large, long-lived tussocks with sclerophyllous leaves. As fire frequency was low in New Zealand before the arrival of humans, grass leaf-abscission was an evolutionary advantage whenever large tussock species shared habitat with tall woody plants.
24054434|Vegetation changes were investigated on 27 transects in agriculturally unimproved short tussock grasslands dominated by Festuca novae-zelandiae in the Harper-Avoca catchment, Canterbury. These were remeasured at 5 or 10 year intervals between 1965 and 1990. Change was widespread. It was characterised by invasions by exotic species, declines in native species (including F. novae-zelandiae), and a trend towards vegetation dominated by the flatweeds Hieracium lepidulum and H. pilosella, and the grass Agrostis capillaris. The effects of different histories of sheep-grazing were examined on the transects and on 174 quadrats established in 1988. Although prolonged grazing generally promoted decline in native species and invasion by exotic species, including H. lepidulum, these trends also developed on sites protected from grazing for 22 or 35 years. There was no evidence that the rate or extent of invasion by Hieracium pilosella was enhanced by continued sheep grazing, or that removal of grazing prevented invasion. Two common hypotheses seek to explain Hieracium success as either a symptom of ecosystem depletion or an example of an aggressive invader. However, neither hypothesis alone adequately accounts for the observed patterns of Hieracium invasion. Such single-factor explanations fail to account for interactions between the many mechanisms that affect plant populations at different spatial and temporal scales. Similarly, single-factor prescriptions for preventing or controlling Hieracium invasion, such as the removal of grazing, may not provide widespread success.
24058156|To examine the seasonal availability of the major bellbird (Anthornis melanura) food sources in a mountain beech (Nothofagus solandri var. cliffortioides) forest at Craigieburn, the invertebrate, honeydew, and mistletoe (Peraxilla tetrapetala and Alepis flavida) fruit and nectar resources were sampled over 12 months. The total available food varied 2.6-fold from a low in October (8798 kJ/ha) to a high in December (22,959 kJ/ha) with an annual mean of 15,782 kJ/ha. Invertebrates were available all year and represented 88% of the available food energy. Only 16% of the invertebrate resource was on beech foliage, and beech trunks with honeydew had 60% more invertebrate energy than trunks without honeydew. The energy value of honeydew at Craigieburn (0.9% of the total) was much lower than at lower altitude sites. The relative rankings of honeydew standing crops on 25 permanently marked trees were very constant. On an annual basis mistletoe nectar and fruit made up 6.3% and 4.9%, respectively, of total food energy, but P. tetrapetala nectar was 46% of available food in early January, and P. tetrapetala fruit was 25% of the total in March. Bellbirds spent less time foraging on invertebrates, and more time on the other foods, than energy values would predict. However, during the peak of its short flowering season, P. tetrapetala nectar made up 46% of available energy but only 33% of bellbird foraging observations. At this site P. tetrapetala is pollen limited due to insufficient visits from pollinators. This may be because bellbirds require invertebrates for protein, or to feed to nestlings. Therefore the pollination mutualism is faltering, despite high investment in nectar by the plant.
24060754|Invasive rodents pose a grave and persistent threat to New Zealand's native biodiversity. Rodent eradication is a successful conservation tool on islands. However, eradications may fail, and there is always potential for reinvasion. It is therefore essential that effective systems are in place for the early detection of rodents in the case of eradication failure or reincursion. We used data from a small New Zealand island experimentally colonised with house mice (Mus musculus) to investigate the effectiveness of selected mammal surveillance practices, including detection device choice, duration of deployment period, and device placement. The effect of population density on mouse detectability was assessed using population abundance estimates made regularly throughout the experimental island colonisation. We found that commonly used detection practices were highly effective for the detection of mice, even at low population density.
24060874|Predators at black-fronted tern (Chlidonias albostriatus) nests on the Wairau braided riverbed in Marlborough, New Zealand, were identified using (1) mtDNA analysis of 438 swabs from shell remains, nest contents, and carcass remains, and (2) digital video surveillance of 85 nests. DNA analysis suggested harriers (Circus approximans) were the main predator of tern eggs (171 of 192 shell samples containing predator DNA). Cats (Felis catus) and stoats (Mustela erminea) were the probable predators of the majority of adult terns killed (9 and 8 respectively, of swabs from 19 carcasses). Video results were broadly, though not entirely, consistent with the DNA results, and showed that harriers were the main predator of eggs (9 of 19 videoed predation events), followed by Southern black-backed gulls (Larus dominicanus dominicanus; 3/19); hedgehogs (Erinaceus europaeus occidentalis; 2/19), ship rats (Rattus rattus; 2/19), pied oystercatchers (Haematopus finschi; 2/19) and stoats (1/19). DNA was analysed from nine of the 19 videoed nests but the only predator DNA obtained was from harriers (four nests). Sixty-four percent of depredated nests (683/1063) contained no eggshell remains at the next monitoring visit after predation. DNA analysis of nest material from 71 of these empty nests yielded only one predator result; video footage was therefore essential to identify the cause of 12 empty nests at 19 videoed nest predations. Terns removed the depredated egg remains from eight nests; black-backed gulls consumed eggs at three nests; and a stoat carried the eggs away from one nest. Hedgehog DNA was not found on shell remains from nests with videoed hedgehog predations. Analysing DNA from eggshell and carcass remains is a valuable new tool in wildlife research and management because it can identify predator species and indicate their relative importance. However, our results show that predator species are not equally detectable using this technique, leading to biases in the DNA results. This 'detectability bias' needs to be further quantified, and recognised when interpreting DNA results.
24052740|The distribution and abundance of Hochstetter's frog (Leiopelma hochstetteri Fitzinger) in part of the catchment of the Motu River was assessed during two short surveys in 1981 and 1983. Specimens were found in most tributaries examined and on the banks of the main river, above extreme flood level. Crude indices of abundance were obtained by relating the numbers found to the time spent searching and number of stones and logs turned. Generally about four frogs were found per hour, but there was considerable variation in counts obtained in simultaneous searches by different observers. The highest counts were obtained in areas with stable, moss-covered substrates, shaded by overhanging vegetation. Frogs in the upper Motu River were significantly further away from the edge of streams than those in the catchment of the Takaputahi River. Most adults were dark grey or dull khaki, spotted with rust or brown, whereas juveniles less than 20mm long were bright lime green. Snout to vent lengths ranged from 15-46 mm and weights from 1.0-7.1 g. A cluster of eggs with well developed embryos was found in the catchment in March 1983.
24052636|Botanists describing the Ruahine Range prior to 1920 made no mention of the forest debility described by later writers. In the 1870s and 1880s the lowland forests were cleared from round the southern half of the range and grazing commenced on the northern and western plateaux. Opossums (Trichosurus vulpecula) were liberated in the 1880s and red deer (Cervus elaphus) first entered the range about 1900. By the mid-1920s deer had modified forests in the northern part of the range. By 1940 deer damage was extensive and opossum damage had been noted. During the 1950s some forest canopies were severely damaged by opossums, and considerable forest collapse occurred during the 1960s. There has been subsequent recovery in some places and continuing forest deterioration in others.
24054776|Brown kiwi (Apteryx mantelli) in central Northland have been monitored for up to 32 months of sustained exposure to brodifacoum poison. The cereal baits were placed in bait stations to target brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecula). Annual survival of 55 radio-tagged adult kiwi in two poisoned forest patches has been high (95.9%), and similar to that in two nearby unpoisoned forest patches and in the patches before poison was used (95.3%). The two adult birds tested of the four that died in the poisoned areas had no traces of brodifacoum at the detection limit of 0.05 mg kg1. With an improved detection limit of 0.02 mg kg1, no traces of brodifacoum were found in nine eggs collected over 18 months after adults were first exposed to the poison. Of four chicks tested (detection limit: 0.005 to 0.02 mg kg1), that had apparently died of natural causes or were killed by predators, three contained traces of brodifacoum (0.01 - 0.18 mg kg1). The median survival of 39 radio-tagged chicks in the poisoned areas (36 days) was significantly better than that of 18 chicks in untreated areas nearby (15 days). Kiwi chicks may be more vulnerable than adult kiwi to accidental poisoning because of physiological or behavioural differences; however, the effects of sustained exposure to low levels of brodifacoum poison may not be visible in the adult population for several years. At this stage of the ongoing study, the benefits to kiwi of this method of pest control outweigh the costs, because chick survival is greatly improved.
24054509|Food of the North Island kaka (Nestor meridionalis septentrionalis) on Kapiti Island was identified while quantifying the foraging activity of nine radio-tagged birds from March 1991 to January 1992. Additional food types were identified by opportunistic observation of feeding birds and qualitative examination of nestling faeces. A diverse range of food was taken, including wood-boring invertebrates, scale insects, seeds, nectar or pollen, fruits, and sap. Radio-tagged birds foraged predominantly for invertebrates over most of the year, but hinau (Elaeocarpus dentatus) seed, five-finger (Pseudopanax arboreus) nectar or pollen and tawa (Beilschmiedia tawa) seed were seasonally important food types. Most of the plant food taken by kaka on Kapiti is known to be eaten, or otherwise reduced in abundance, by Australian brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecula), a widespread potential competitor that has been eradicated from Kapiti. Annual variation in the abundance of important plant food types may explain variation in the breeding intensity of kaka on Kapiti Island.
24052704|The diet and feeding methods of kakapo (Strigops habroptilus) on Stewart Island, southern New Zealand, were studied by examining sign left by the birds. Most feeding sign was found on herbs, ferns, and shrubs, especially on new and developing growth such as leaves, bark, fruits and seeds, as well as the subterranean portions. The species on which most kakapo sign was found were Lycopodium ramulosum, L. fastigiatum, Schizaea fistulosa var. australis, Blechnum minus, B. procerum, Cyathodes juniperina, Dracophyllum longifolium, Olearia colensoi, Thelymitra venosa, Oreobolus strictus, Gahnia procera and Carex appressa. Though all (but Oreobolus and Gahnia) were fed on frequently throughout the year, variations in the use of different parts of plants occurred both seasonally and annually. The nature of the feeding sign indicated that kakapo are versatile feeders with highly variable feeding patterns, and many foods are taken opportunistically. This flexible feeding pattern allows kakapo to utilise a broad spectrum of seasonal foods which may only be available for short periods or on intermittent years.
24060651|Introduced mice were trapped in the three main vegetation types on subantarctic Auckland Island, New Zealand, over three trapping sessions, in winter 2007. Fifty mice were trapped over 675 trap-nights. Mice were caught most often in upland tussock grassland and more often in rt forest than in shrubland but there were no significant differences among the catch rates in these habitats. Upland tussock grassland appeared to have been a better vegetation type for mice, as adult females were trapped only there and mean weight of adult males was heavier there than of adult males from the other vegetation types.
24056319|The literature on wind damage in New Zealand forests is reviewed to investigate how abiotic and biotic factors influence damage severity, damage type, and forest recovery. Winds that damage forests tend to result from extra-tropical depressions or from topographically enhanced westerly air flows. Severe wind damage can occur when wind speeds exceed c. 110 km/hr, although investigating the relationship between damage and wind speeds is difficult, as gusts, for which speed is usually unrecorded, are important. Damage is often quantified by estimates of area affected, with some authors detailing the size and species of damaged trees within a given area. Key abiotic factors that influence damage patterns are topographical position, edaphic conditions, and disturbance history. Important biotic factors are tree height, tree health, position of the tree within the stand, and species. Damage type (uprooting or breakage) is primarily controlled by canopy position and rooting depth. Forest responses to wind damage include sprouting, recruitment, release, and suppression, with the dominant mode of forest recovery being strongly influenced by the severity of damage, and the species composition of the stand. As noted in international literature on wind damage, a lack of consistent methods, combined with poor species and spatial coverage, makes identifying general trends difficult. Investigating the role of wind damage in New Zealand forests has focused to date on Nothofagus forests and plantations of exotic trees and few studies have investigated long term dynamics following wind disturbance events.
24053669|A simulation model, using the often observed log-linear relationship between the relative abundance and rank of species, shows that vegetation will tend to form a series of communities of constant composition along an environmental gradient even if the constituent species are initially responding independently to those environmental changes. The discreteness of these communities increases with increasing conformity to the log-linear relationship. An index quantifying this conformity (range 0-1.0) is defined and a method for estimating it from field vegetation data devised. In three vegetation data sets tested the conformity index was 0.0, 0.32 and 0.37.
24052800|The diet of sambar deer in a Phormium tenax wetland is examined. Proportions of forage species were assessed from cuticle fragments in faeces and the nutrient quality of the food determined chemically. The deer feed selectively although at times the principal forages ingested are of poor nutritional value.
24058129|This study uses data from repeatedly measured forest monitoring plots (20  20 m) (n = 32) and nine ungulate exclosures (paired fenced and unfenced plots; 20  20 m) to show the effects of introduced ungulates on tree regeneration in Pureora Forest Park, central North Island, between 1974 and 2002. Results show that introduced ungulates, particularly red deer (Cervus elaphus scoticus), have suppressed the regeneration of hardwood species such as Coprosma grandifolia, Elaeocarpus dentatus, Griselinia littoralis, Melicytus ramiflorus, Schefflera digitata and Weinmannia racemosa. These species were only common as saplings and small trees in the complete absence of ungulate browsing. The results of this study suggest that red deer will need to be culled to low densities to assure regeneration of palatable tree species in Pureora Forest.
24056350|The naturalised European blackbird (Turdus merula) is the most widely distributed avian seed disperser in New Zealand. Together with the native silvereye (Zosterops lateralis) they are the major seed dispersers over large areas of New Zealand. I review the international literature on aspects of the ecology and behaviour of blackbirds relevant to their potential for dispersing weeds in New Zealand. Blackbirds eat a wide range of native and exotic fruit including many naturalised species. Their habitat preferences and behaviour result in germinable seeds being deposited in a range of sites, particularly in shrubby habitats, where seedling establishment is likely. Most seeds will be deposited within 50 m but some may be carried a kilometre or more to develop new invasive loci. Blackbirds therefore probably make a major contribution to the development of novel plant communities of naturalised woody weeds. These communities provide fruit more suited to non-endemic native birds and naturalised birds, than to endemic birds. The relative contribution of blackbirds and silvereyes to seed dispersal of native and exotic species requires investigation. The outcome may suggest potential for managing blackbirds as a vector of weed invasions.
24060805|Spatial associations between the invasive tree lupin (Lupinus arboreus), the New Zealand endemic widow spider Latrodectus katipo (katipo), and the introduced South African spider Steatoda capensis (false katipo) were examined within the nationally significant Kaitorete Spit dune system in Canterbury, New Zealand. These dunes are considered to be a stronghold for L. Katipo, but with the decline in preferred vegetation for capture-web attachment as a result of tree lupin invasion, a decline in the spider's population was expected. On other New Zealand dune systems a decline in L. Katipo abundance has corresponded with an increse in the abundance of the introduced S. capensis. Spider population data collected over a 6-year period and vegetation data collected in 2008 and 2009 were used to examine the spatial associations at Kaitorete Spit. The abundance of S. capensis was not significantly related to the abundance of L. Katipo. The ratio of S. capensis to L. Katipo declined annually over the 6 years. The 2008 and 2009 vegetation surveys found that S. capensis was not located in areas where tree lupin was present. Latrodectus Katipo was found in areas with up to 40% tree lupin cover. The abundance of L. Katipo recorded in areas dominated by tree lupin was not significantly different from the abundances recorded in association with native plant cover. The presence of L. arboreus at Kaitorete Spit is not considered to be a direct threat to the population of L. Katipo; Kaitorete Spit is still a stronghold.
24055340|The annual diet of possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) during both a beech (Nothofagus) mast fruiting year and a non-mast year in the simple beech forests of the North Branch of the Hurunui Catchment, eastern South Island, New Zealand, was determined by sorting the contents of 270 possum stomachs, collected between December 1999 and December 2001. Beech flowers and seeds contributed 46.1% to annual diet during the mast year, but were not eaten during the non-mast year. Beech foliage and bark made up 13.2% and 45.0% of annual diet in the mast and non-mast years, respectively. Fungi, herbs and grasses together comprised 23.1% and 42.4% of the annual diet in the mast and non-mast years, respectively. Diet varied with altitude and distance down the valley, principally in the relative contributions of foods from the three beech species present, which reflected local canopy composition. Other local food sources such as valley-floor herbs and grasses also contributed significantly to local diet. Although heavily reliant on beech species, possums are unlikely to have a significant impact on beech flower and seed production, or on the health of beech trees because of possums' low abundance and the large beech biomass at this site. Recognised possum-preferred foods such as Aristotelia serrata, Fuchsia excorticata, Hoheria glabrata, Raukaua simplex, Elaeocarpus hookerianus and mistletoes (Peraxilla tetrapetela and Alepis flavida) were all strongly preferred by possums but, because of their scarcity in the study area, were only eaten in small quantities.
24058095|We offered ripe fruits of tawa (Beilschmiedia tawa), taraire (B. tarairi), and priri (Vitex lucens) to captive New Zealand pigeons (Hemiphaga novaeseelandiae) and recorded seed retention times. We also recorded seed retention times while radio-tracking wild pigeons in Taranaki and Canterbury. We report wild pigeon retention times for tawa, priri, miro (Prumnopitys ferruginea), fivefinger (Pseudopanax arboreus), and kahikatea (Dacrycarpus dacrydioides) seeds. Where data were available for the same plant species from wild and captive pigeons, retention times were similar. Seed retention time differed significantly among fruit species, and was positively related to seed mass. Mean retention times ranged from 3745 min for the two smallest-seeded species (fivefinger and kahikatea) up to 109181 min for the three largest species (priri, taraire, and tawa). We also report the second published instance of regurgitation by the New Zealand pigeon.
24056348|The Wellington tree weta, Hemideina crassidens, is a harem-polygynous nocturnal insect whose males defend and mate groups of females residing in cavities in trees. In this study I examined sexual differences in gallery use (number of galleries occupied per unit time), distance travelled per night and activity patterns after sunset. In addition, I investigated how gallery size affected each of these variables. On average, males and females did not differ in the number of galleries visited per night, or in the distance they travelled per night; however, adult males were more likely to be seen earlier in the night than later. Although males and females did not differ in their gallery use or distance travelled, adult males occupied a significantly greater number of galleries and travelled greater distances per night at sites with small galleries than did males at sites with large galleries. These results suggest that habitat structure of a forest patch influences intrasexual tree weta behaviour.
24055318|Tradescantia fluminensis, commonly referred to as 'tradescantia', is an invasive weed of canopy-depleted forest remnants. Previous research suggests that a reduction of tradescantia biomass to 80 gm2 (40% cover) is compatible with native forest regeneration. I assessed herbicide application, hand weeding and artificial shading as methods for the control of tradescantia in two lowland podocarp/broad-leaved forest remnants in the lower North Island of New Zealand. Herbicide spray and hand weeding, applied to separate experimental plots, did not prevent re-growth of tradescantia after three successive treatments. Re-growth of tradescantia and invasion of other weeds were positively related to light availability, which increased in the more canopy-depleted areas, and negatively related to native forest regeneration measured two years after initial treatment. Artificial shading was the most effective method of control. The biomass of tradescantia was significantly reduced in artificially-shaded plots (25% full light; 81.3  10.6 gm2) relative to non-shaded plots (1527% full light; 597.6  6.6 gm2; t4 = 17.38, P < 0.001) after 17 months. Native sub-canopy species were planted into tradescantia to achieve natural shading over large areas of forest. After 2.5 years, 61% of the saplings planted had emerged from the surrounding tradescantia.
24052765|Sites in four areas of Canterbury, New Zealand were examined to determine the principal factors influencing wind damage, and study sites at two areas were used to investigate forest age-class structure and stand dynamics. At all sites large-scale topographic features funnelled storm winds to produce recurrent damage, and smaller-scale topographic features determined precise points affected by winthrow. Lee slopes provide shelter to susceptible sites during normal weather conditions and therefore permit better stand growth, but stand damage increases in storms. Stands on exposed windward slopes form a wind-shaped canopy which is constrained by stem breakage during minor storms. Damage occurs in stands over a critical height of about 18 m and where stem diameter is large. Wind-damaged forests have restricted age-distribution compared with those of partially damaged and vulnerable forests. Wind damage is little cause for concern as it must be viewed in a framework of short-term forest stability. Periodic mortality in mountain beech forests can be seen as a regeneration strategy of a light-demanding species, since it produces ideal conditions for forest perpetuation. Forest collapse, followed by rapid massed regeneration is thus an effective competitive mechanism against a more shade-tolerant canopy species.
24056198|We estimated the annual production of honeydew per unit land area of beech (Nothofagus spp.) forest by measuring the amount of honeydew produced in 24 h by scale insects (Ultracoelostoma spp.) (Hemiptera: Margarodidae) every month for 2 years. We used exclosures to prevent animals (notably Vespula wasps) removing honeydew, and we compared the standing crop of honeydew inside permanently closed exclosures with that outside exclosures. Honeydew production and the number of honeydew droplets was highly variable between individual trees, tree type, position on tree, and, exclosure type, and within and between years. The amount of honeydew available outside exclosures was significantly reduced in year 2, predominantly by Vespula wasps, even though wasp density was relatively low. Sugar composition also varied between tree type and between years. Up to 5% of the sugar was glucose, with varying proportions of fructose, sucrose and oligosaccharides. The surface area of trees infested with scale insects was estimated using allometric regression relationships between tree diameter and total surface area of tree trunk and branch material. These estimates were combined with measurements of tree diameter in 10-m radius circular plots to give a production estimate of between 3500 and 4500 kg dry weight honeydew ha1 year1. Using this data, combined with previously published estimates of carbon uptake, it was estimated that between 6 and 8% of net primary productivity was released as honeydew. Honeydew scale insects provide large amounts of biologically available carbon in the form of soluble sugar. It is a crucial resource for the above-ground system, and probably also for the below-ground system. We conclude that scale insects have the potential to function as keystone species in these forests.
24053307|Twenty-three kiwi were radio-tracked for 16-116 weeks in a Northland reserve. Eighty-three percent of the kiwi made use of the numerous forest remnants scattered over farmland outside the reserve. All remnants isolated by up to 80 m of pasture were used by kiwi. The maximum distance kiwi walked between forest remnants was 330 m. Longer migrations of up to 1.2 km from the reserve were made by kiwi using small forest remnants as 'stepping stones'. The planting and/or protection of small islands of forest adjacent to kiwi reserves is recommended as a method of linking forest remnants together and increasing the effective size of reserves. The possibility of managing several small populations of kiwi in concert to effect a larger population size is suggested.
24056322|This study investigated the effects of different management inputs (fertiliser and seed) and grazing patterns on plant biodiversity in a short tussock grassland with a strong Hieracium pilosella component. Cover abundance of vascular and non-vascular plants and environmental variables were measured in 32 1010-m plots located in five blocks with different management treatments. Ordination of the floristic data separated the block with the highest management inputs from other blocks. Several adventive species were significantly more abundant in this block, while several native species were either absent or uncommon, but were significantly more abundant in other study blocks. H. pilosella was significantly more abundant in blocks with lower management inputs. Diversity was significantly higher in the block with the highest management inputs. The native tussock Poa colensoi had significantly greater cover abundance while Festuca novae-zelandiae tussocks were significantly taller in this block. Our results suggest that high management inputs reduce the abundance of H. pilosella and diversity of native species, but increase the abundance of other adventive species and the cover and vigour of native tussocks. Our results highlight an interesting management conundrum for short tussock grasslands. No-input management is likely to result in a decline in native biodiversity, as well as production values, as H. pilosella mats deplete soil nutrients and restrict regeneration of native species. However, input of fertiliser and adventive seeds to enhance production values, although resulting in an increase in the vigour and abundance of some native species (mainly tussocks) and a reduction in H.pilosella abundance, will also result in a decline in overall native species richness.
24056166|Population models are useful tools to guide management as they allow us to project growth and persistence of wildlife populations under different scenarios. Nevertheless, good data are needed to produce reliable models, and this requirement is problematic in some situations. North Island saddlebacks (Philiesturnus rufusater) were reintroduced to Boundary Stream Mainland Island in September 2004, and this was the first time this species had occurred in an unfenced mainland area since their extirpation in the 19th century. This situation creates a challenging scenario for population modelling, as this species has never been studied in the presence of mainland predators, and management of these predators will be the key factor determining whether the population survives. In this paper we present an approach for developing a "prior model" before a reintroduction takes place. We use data from the reintroduced saddleback population on Mokoia Island to develop a model of how saddleback populations are regulated in the absence of mammalian predators. We use this model to project growth of a reintroduced population when vital rates are reduced by predation and also to project responses of source populations to harvesting of birds for translocation. We then incorporate data from the reintroduced North Island robin (Petroica longipes) population at Paengaroa Mainland Island to model the relationship between population parameters and predator tracking rates. The combined model can be used to predict the level of predator control needed to ensure growth of the saddleback population, but the prediction is contingent on guessing the relative vulnerability of robins and saddlebacks to predation. We envision using a Bayesian approach to update such prior models as site-specific data become available after reintroduction.
24054651|Fragments of kahikatea (Dacrycarpus dacrydioides) forest provide a major opportunity for conservation of indigenous biodiversity in the heavily deforested landscape of the Waikato Basin, New Zealand. However, there is little documented information on what indigenous fauna survives in these fragments. Using Malaise traps set 20 m and 50 m into fragments and 20 m and 50 m into the adjacent pasture, we analysed the beetle (Coleoptera) assemblages associated with two such kahikatea forest fragments in the south Waikato Basin in order to determine the scope of biotic invasion by adventive species and use of the surrounding pasture by indigenous species. A total of 3706 beetles were caught, encompassing 37 families and 206 recognisable taxonomic units. The forest fragments had a sharply defined edge, and were dominated by indigenous beetle species, with only a few adventive species present. Beetle assemblages sampled in the surrounding pasture were numerically dominated by adventive species. Despite no indigenous plant species being present in the pastures, 55 indigenous beetles species (61% of total species sampled in the pasture) were recorded in this habitat. Traps in the pasture of greatest floral diversity caught the most indigenous beetle species. Beetles of the detritivore guild dominated the samples from forest, but in samples from pasture, detritovores and predatores were co-dominant. Indigenous herbivore species were poorly represented in samples from pasture compared to other guilds. The kahikatea fragments have a rich indigenous beetle fauna and represent important refuges in the pastoral landscape of the Waikato. Many indigenous species are utilising the pasture to some degree, although their abundance and species richness declines with distance from the forest edge. This may have implications for successful dispersal to new patches. Species that could potentially be used as indicators of kahikatea forest fragment community structure and its resistance to invasion are suggested.
24053582|Variation in seedling growth and form between provenances of Podocarpus totara from 42 sites throughout New Zealand was investigated. Seedlings were grown for three years under uniform nursery conditions. There were significant differences between provenances in height growth in the first three years after sowing. Early growth was highly correlated with germination rate after sowing. In the third year, growth followed a different pattern and was negatively correlated with provenance latitude, i.e., provenances from southern latitudes grew more slowly than those from further north. This suggests that genetic factors correlated with mean summer temperature of the locality of seed source were beginning to predominate. Stem form and branch length also varied between provenances, but foliage colour and leaf size did not. Neither stem form nor branch length were related to any provenance site variable. Since provenance variation is appreciable, it is recommended that P. totara plantings for ecological purposes should be of seedlings raised from locally collected seed. However, for growing P. totara in plantations to produce special-purpose high value timber, considerable scope exists for an in-depth breeding study that will eventually lead to producing planting stock with both superior height growth and good tree form.
24054529|Current monitoring of Himalayan thar (Hemitragus jemlahicus) populations in New Zealand involves a technique based on repeated observations by different, experienced observers. The method gives no measure of error and hence does not allow for statistical comparison of repeated surveys. We outline a faster and cheaper technique that enables statistical comparison between surveys based on mark-recapture theory. Two counts can be made by the same observer on subsequent evenings, or can be conducted simultaneously by two observers of differing experience provided they do not cue each other to the location of animals. As an example of the use of the technique, we monitored a control operation aimed at reducing thar impact on alpine flora. We recorded a non-significant (P = 0.27) decline in thar abundance from 38 ( 27; 95% C.L.) to 28 ( 19) females (including kids) in the survey area.
24056190|European hedgehogs (Erinaceus europaeus) have recently been identified as a conservation threat in New Zealand. Hedgehogs were kill-trapped at 14 wetland and braided riverbed sites in the upper Waitaki Basin between late October 1997 and early February 1998 and their gut contents described. The most commonly eaten prey were Coleoptera (present in 81% of 192 guts), Lepidoptera (52%; n = 192), Dermaptera (49%; n = 192), Hymenoptera (42%; n = 192) and Orthoptera (31%; n = 319). Large numbers of single invertebrate prey types were frequently eaten by individual animals, likely indicating hedgehogs' ability to take advantage of rich patches of food. Weta remains occurred in 22% of guts, with the gut of one adult male containing 283 Hemiandrus legs. No remains of the endangered robust grasshopper were found. Eggshell was recorded in 4% of 615 guts. Native lizard remains were found in 6% of 615 guts and three times as many adult female hedgehog guts contained lizards compared with adult males. This difference may be linked to females' high energetic demands during the breeding season. The dependence of hedgehogs on invertebrate prey is likely to have significant implications for the conservation of threatened endemic invertebrates, which often show restricted ranges. While birds' eggs and native lizards appear to be of lesser importance, small, localised populations of these fauna may still be threatened by hedgehog predation.
24052784|Forest types of the Wapiti, Doon and Glaisnock catchments, ranked in order of proportion of preferred food species for deer, paralleled a gradient of landform stability. Seral forests and low altitude silver beech forests were preferred deer habitat because they contained the largest proportions of highly preferred species. They often occurred on unstable landforms such as debris cones, colluvial sideslopes, and terraces with recent and compound soils, assumed to be of high nutrient status. In contrast, mountain beech and high altitude silver beech forests supported lower proportions of highly preferred food species and were poor deer habitat. They occurred on more stable landforms such as bedrock sideslopes, ridges and benches with poorly-drained, infertile soils. The Wapiti/Doon catchments contained a greater abundance of more stable landforms than the Glaisnock and therefore provided poorer deer habitat in the predominant mountain beech forests.
24052795|'Extensive' herbivore/vegetation models and 'intensive' grazing models yield two conclusions for sustained-yield harvesting of populations regulated by an interaction with their resources. First, the growth curve for the population, relating growth rate to current density, and the equilibrium yield/effort curve under harvesting, are likely to be asymmetric, with peaks displaced to the right and maximum growth rate and harvest greater then predicted by the symmetrical, single-species logistic model. In general, the growth curve for a consumer has its peak displaced to the right relative to that of its resource. Second, stability of the population and harvest is greater at moderately high harvesting intensities than at low ones, and is greater the more leftward-peaked the resource growth curve.
24053600|The standing crop and daily production of honeydew by Ultracoelostoma brittini on Nothofagus solandri var solandri was measured on 28-29 August 1990 near Oxford, Canterbury. In 64 quadrats of 125 cm2, all 740 active individual insects were mapped by their anal threads and honeydew production was recorded every three hours over 24 hours. Mean production of honeydew per insect over 24 hours was 0.169 l, but ranged from zero (4% of all active insects) to 11.5 l. Standing crop peaked just after dawn, and production was apparently higher at night. Removing drops every three hours and covering the quadrats to exclude animals had no significant effect on honeydew production. The greatest variation was between the 16 trees. Ultracoelostoma densities were higher on trees with higher daily honeydew production per insect. The honeydew production per unit area over 24 hours represented 3.2 to 23.0 times the standing crop, depending on what time of day the latter was measured; for the daylight samples, production was 11.5 times the mean standing crop.
24052675|Permanent transects, established in 1970 to monitor the effects of sheep grazing on subantarctic palatable and dominant plants, are assessed. Sheep have a detrimental effect on most species considered, but regeneration is vigorous on the sheep-free side of a fence-line dividing Campbell Island.
24052005|The location of the boundary between the territories of red grouse (Lagopus lagopus scoticus) and ptarmigan (Lagopus mutus) is related to the vegetation of the hills where both these species occur. If the vegetation is dominated by tall, vigorous Calluna vulgaris, grouse occur. At greater altitudes where Calluna is shorter and less vigorous, significant levels of Empetrum hermaphroditum and Vaccinium myrtillus are also present and such vegetation is occupied by ptarmigan. An hypothesis is suggested in which the actual boundary between the two bird species is related to a critical height of Calluna. The different behaviour of the birds in relation to predators may influence the location of the boundary. Grouse shelter in tall Calluna while ptarmigan seek rock heaps.
24060705|Multiple paternity within litters has been recorded among a variety of small mammal species, including some species of rodents. Although multiple mating has been observed in wild Rattus populations, whether such mating results in litters with multiple paternities has not been established previously. For studies involving invasive species, it is useful to be aware of the level of genetic diversity a single pregnant invader can bring to a population. Multiple paternity is a means of providing additional genetic diversity to founding populations of rats on islands, which might improve population fitness. We used a genetic approach to confirm that multiple paternity occurs in wild populations of two rat species (Rattus norvegicus and R. rattus) in New Zealand. This was accomplished by genotyping litters of embryos in pregnant females, and subtracting the known maternal alleles to find the number of paternal alleles necessary to form the litter. The number of paternal contributors cannot be overestimated by this method, befitting a conservative approach to the detection of multiple paternity, but can be underestimated. We used simulations to investigate the level of underestimation likely under two possible scenarios involving multiple paternity.
24056340|Introduced mammalian herbivores are changing the structure and composition of New Zealand's forest ecosystems and may modify forest succession after natural disturbances. We studied how introduced ungulates (red deer and feral pigs) and rodents (rats and house mice) affected the rate of recovery (i.e. the engineering resilience) of the forest understorey following artificial disturbance. We imposed disturbances by clearing understorey vegetation dominated by Blechnum ferns in forests on relatively fertile alluvium and elevated infertile marine terraces, and recorded recovery of vegetation (seedling establishment, species composition, cover and volume) in herbivore exclosures and controls. Seedlings quickly established on cleared plots: after 2 years, numbers of woody seedlings and ground cover of vascular plants relative to initial values were similar on cleared and uncleared treatments. Volume of plant biomass <2 m remained low on cleared subplots. Ungulates significantly reduced the re-establishment of woody seedlings  10 cm tall: only one seedling reached this height outside exclosures, compared with 29 seedlings inside. The number of seedlings <10 cm tall, expressed relative to numbers present pre-clearing, was not significantly affected by ungulates. The species composition of regenerating vegetation was more similar (jaccard index) to pre-clearing understorey vegetation inside ungulate exclosures than outside. No consistent effect of rodents (primarily house mice) on seedling establishment or species composition was detected after 2 years, and rodent exclosures did not significantly affect survival of seedlings (Griselinia littoralis and Aristotelia serrata) planted as an index of rodent herbivory pressure. No significant differences in vegetation recovery were apparent between forest types. Rapid seedling recruitment in the absence of understorey vegetation and the presence of herbivores provided evidence that understorey vegetation competes with seedlings for light. Ungulate effects were consistent with other experiments that showed herbivores reduced the rate and altered the trajectory of vegetation regrowth after disturbance.
24054655|This study examined whether two species of lepidopteran larvae (Cleora scriptaria and Epiphyas postvittana) were deterred from feeding on the leaves of kawakawa (Macropiper excelsum) after the leaves had been damaged in three different ways: by larval feeding, using a hole punch or a metal rasp. A hierarchy of choice experiments was performed in the laboratory, examining the feeding 'preference' of these insects between undamaged or previously damaged tissue within the same leaf, between different leaves and between different plants. On no occasion did larvae of either species show a signigicant preference for undamaged or damaged leaves. It is concluded that, on present evidence, kawakawa does not have a system of induced chemical defences which deters the feeding of these two insects.
24055339|Introduced rodents and possums in New Zealand eat flowers, fruits, seeds and seedlings, but little is known about their impact on forest regeneration. We investigated seedling establishment in exclosures with mesh of two different sizes to exclude (1) possums and (2) possums and rats, at two mainland forest sites (beechpodocarpbroadleaved and second-growth broadleavedpodocarp) near Dunedin. We recorded all new woody seedlings that established over the next 2 years. The number of seedlings with true leaves differed significantly between treatments after 1.5 years at both sites and after 2 years in beechpodocarpbroadleaved forest. This effect was broadly consistent across all species including pepper tree (Pseudowintera colorata), whose adult foliage is unpalatable to possums. Cotyledonous seedlings were relatively ephemeral, but differed significantly in abundance between treatments in second-growth broadleavedpodocarp forest after 1.5 and 2 years. In second-growth broadleavedpodocarp forest, possums were present throughout the study but rats were rare. Numbers of seedlings did not differ significantly between exclosures with different mesh sizes which admitted or excluded rats. In beechpodocarpbroadleaved forest, rats were present periodically throughout the study, but possums may have been scarce during the final 7 months as a result of pest control. At this location, 80 seedlings with true leaves occurred in exclosures that excluded possums and rats, 3.6 times as many as on control plots and 2.1 times as many as in exclosures that deterred only possums. The consequences of these pest impacts on seedling recruitment for forest regeneration must be confirmed in longer-term studies. Exclosures can be effectively used to experimentally separate the impacts of different herbivores on seedling establishment.
24055295|The Australian brushtail possum (Trichosurus vulpecula) has been blamed for the decline of three native New Zealand beech mistletoe species (Alepis flavida, Peraxilla tetrapetala and Peraxilla colensoi, Loranthaceae), but there are few quantitative data on possum effects, and anecdotal evidence is often conflicting. We present results from two monitoring programmes that suggest possum control operations can improve mistletoe health. In the Eglinton Valley significantly more Alepis flavida plants outside a possum control area declined in condition than Peraxilla spp. inside the control area from 1995 to 1997. In 1997, the control area was extended to include A. flavida plants and their condition significantly improved by 1999. Alepis flavida at Eglinton was also compared to A. flavida at Mavora Lakes, where no control was undertaken. Significantly more of the Eglinton plants declined from 1995 to 1997, while the reverse was true from 1997 to 1999, after the Eglinton site was controlled. In the Hurunui River Valley significantly more mistletoes improved or remained in the same condition within the possum control area than outside the control area between 1997 and 2000. Overall, these results suggest that possum control is an effective tool for protecting native beech mistletoes, but more monitoring data are needed to understand how frequent and how intense control efforts must be to afford this protection.
24054781|Vertebrate pest control operations using toxic baits can have unintended consequences for non-target species, some of which may themselves be pests. Learned avoidance behaviour (termed 'aversion') can be induced by sublethal dosing, which can arise when species with high and low susceptibilities to a toxin co-exist in the same area. In such cases the less-susceptible species (e.g., possums Trichosurus vulpecula) may be sublethally poisoned by control work targeting the more-susceptible species (e.g., rabbits Oryctolagus cuniculus). A case study of rabbit control on North Canterbury farmland is presented to demonstrate this effect. When control is being repeated at frequent intervals, it is prudent to vary the control methods used. Nevertheless, aversion induced by the use of one toxic bait (e.g., cyanide paste) can in some situations 'generalise' so that the efficacy of control using other toxins (e.g., 1080 and cholecalciferol in cereal baits) is also compromised. A case study of initial and follow-up possum control in four discrete areas of Canterbury forest provides an example of this problem. The implications of these findings for future pest management in New Zealand are discussed.
24054528|This radio-tracking study reports the daily activity rhythms in autumn and spring of 11 stoats (Mustela erminea) (9 male, 2 female), 20 ferrets (M. furo) (8 m, 12 f) and 11 feral house cats (Felis catus) (7 m, 4 f) resident on coastal grassland, Otago Peninsula, New Zealand. Activity rhythms differed markedly amongst individual stoats in autumn, but little amongst individual cats and ferrets in either season. Stoats were equally active day and night in autumn, but were more active at day than at night in spring. Cats showed moderate day activity, but were mainly active at night in both seasons. Ferrets showed low activity during daylight in autumn and were entirely nocturnal in spring. Overall, stoats were more active during daylight than cats or ferrets; and cats were more active during daylight than ferrets. Therefore, cats and especially stoats may pose the main predation threat to diurnal native species in New Zealand. Effective biological control of rabbits (Oryctolagus cuniculus) may effect the absolute abundance and daily activity of the predators, so is impossible to predict the overall impact of predation on diurnal and nocturnal native species.
24054648|Chamois (Rupicapra rupicapra) are usually considered an alpine species in New Zealand, but also occur in forests in areas such as Westland. A postal survey of commercial helicopter-based hunters indicated that chamois are present within Westland forests from timberline to sea level and are most abundant within an area of about 1600 km2 extending from the Wanganui River in the north to the Karangarua River to the south. The diet of 40 chamois shot in spring and summer was determined by analysis of rumen contents. Of 66 food items identified to genus or species level, five averaged >5% of dry weight of the rumen contents; these were Carmichaelia spp. (14%), large-leaved Coprosma spp. (12%), Weinmannia racemosa (11%), Griselinia littoralis (9%), and Melicytus ramiflorus (7%). The proportion of grasses in the diet was significantly lower in summer (3%) than in spring (8%). These results suggest that unmanaged chamois populations have the potential to affect regeneration of plant species important to the Westland Metrosideros umbellata - Weinmannia racemosa forest community.
24053247|It is widely thought that some small "bush" moa (Dinornithiformes) survived in Fiordland, New Zealand, into the European era. Possible sightings, especially that by Alice McKenzie, and archaeological evidence, particularly from the Takahe Valley rockshelter site, are discussed. They are insufficient to sustain the belief that moa survived until the eighteenth century or later.
24054469|Monitoring the effect of management in rangelands is an integral part of the process of adaptive management. An understanding of how individual species react to management has two major benefits. Firstly, monitoring, can be simplified by avoiding species which are reacting mostly to other influences, and secondly the abundance of species can be interpreted in a meaningful way for assessing the influence of previous management. Gradient analysis on a matrix of 69 sample sites and 125 species in the St Bathans area of Central Otago identified a relatively homogenous data set, within which the effects of environmental variation had been minimised so that the major pattern of vegetation composition change was explained by pastoral impact. Ten plant species showed clear responses along the pastoral impact gradient, and were abundant over certain ranges of this gradient. It is recommended that these species be used to monitor trends in vegetation condition.
24052706|Feral goats (Capra hircus) have been hunted intensively every year since 1972 on the 2950 ha Raoul Island to protect the indigenous vegetation. Rumen samples taken from 103 goats shot in 198283 showed that a minimum of 48 species of vascular plants, mostly indigenous species, were eaten. Only seven foods  Metrosideros kermadecensis, Coriaria arborea var. kermadecensis, Melicytus ramiflorus spp. ramiflorus, Rhopalostylis baueri var. cheesemanii, various grasses and sedges, Blechnum spp., and the fungus Auricularia sp.  made up 89% of the diet by dry weight. The reduction in goat numbers has allowed most of the palatable species to regenerate, and rare, endangered plants such as Hebe breviracemosa, Homalanthus polyandrus, and Boehmeria australis var. dealbata are now increasing.
24054649|The spatial distribution of feral ferret (Mustela furo) activity and denning were studied using ink-print tracking tunnels and radio-tracking within pastoral farmland containing a mosaic of grazed (developed and semi-developed) and ungrazed pasture, scrub, tree plantation and scrubby fence lines at Palmerston, East Otago, South Island, New Zealand. Ferrets concentrated their activity in grazed areas but within these areas they were found more often where herbs, scrub and woody cover were present, and where there was an ecotone between pasture and vegetation cover. Ferrets were more likely to be present close to fence lines. When denning, ferrets selected areas with cover of all types and avoided open pasture areas. Ferrets particularly favoured man-made structures (woolsheds, haybarns, sheds etc.) for dens. The implications of these microhabitat selections by ferrets to wildlife conservation in New Zealand are discussed. Ferrets are a possible vector of bovine tuberculosis (Mycobacterium bovis). Ferrets may transmit tuberculosis to stock via contaminated food or latrines deposited outside den sites (68% of dens were accessible to stock). Concentration of ferret movements along pasture ecotones may be a factor facilitating tuberculosis transmission between possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) and ferrets, and between ferrets and stock.
24052378|Clearfelling and downhill, skyline-hauler extraction of pulpwood and sawlogs in beech-podocarp-hardwood (PB5) forest, followed by slash-burning, produced increased streamflow yields of N, P and dissolved cations. Nutrient outputs in the first four months after treatment were from 1 to 1.5 times the normal annual output. Yields of Na, Mg, Ca, and K were from 1 to 6 times the normal output; K output showed the largest increase. Nutrient and cation concentrations in streamflow remained within drinking water quality limits except for 12 hours following burning, when ammonium-N was greater than 0.5 mg/l. Losses of K from this treatment appear greater than any reported in the literature and constitute 5% of the readily-available K, but less than 0.1% of the total K capital in the forest and soil. N and P losses are in the low to middle range of results reported from elsewhere. The high K losses are related to: (1) the combination of steep terrain, complete preextraction felling, and the logging method, which concentrated crown material near the stream; (2) the greater fire intensity near the stream which, because of the fuel concentrations and an up-valley wind, converted much of the slash to K-rich ash; and (3) two small storms which occurred shortly after burning and removed most of the ash from the catchment.
24058124|The dominant native woody species forming early-successional vegetation on formerly forested sites in lowland New Zealand were knuka (Kunzea ericoides) and mnuka (Leptospermum scoparium) (Myrtaceae). These have been replaced extensively by gorse (Ulex europaeus, Fabaceae), a naturalised species in New Zealand. Because gorse typically gives way to native broadleaved (angiosperm) forest in about 30 years, it is often considered desirable for facilitating native forest restoration. We tested three hypotheses, derived from the New Zealand literature, on gorse and knuka: (1) knuka stands have a different species composition and greater species richness than gorse stands at comparable successional stages; (2) differences between gorse and knuka stands do not lessen over time; and (3) several native plant taxa are absent from or less common in gorse than in knuka stands. We sampled 48 scrub or low-forest sites in two regions, Wellington and Nelson. Sites were classified into one of four predefined categories  young gorse, young knuka, old gorse, old knuka  based on canopy height of the succession and the dominant early-successional woody species. Few characteristics of the sites and surrounding landscapes differed significantly among site categories, and none consistently across regions. The vegetation composition of gorse and knuka and their immediate successors differed in both regions, mainly in native woody species. Species richness was often lower in gorse and there were fewer small-leaved shrubs and orchids in gorse. persistent differences at the older sites suggest the successional trajectories will not converge in the immediate future; gorse leads to different forest from that developed through knuka. Gorse-dominated succession is therefore not a direct substitute for native successions. We suggest areas of early native succession should be preserved, and initiated in landscapes where successions are dominated by gorse or other naturalised shrubs.
24060730|The little blue penguin (Eudyptula minor) is in decline throughout much of its range in New Zealand and Australia, largely due to introduced predators, human disturbance and roadkill mortalities. The white-flippered penguin is a unique morphological variant of the blue penguin, which is traditionally given subspecific status (Eudyptula minor albosignata), and is found only on Banks Peninsula and Motunau Island in Canterbury, New Zealand. We monitored a varying number of nest boxes from 1996 to 2009. Overall breeding success was 64% over 13 years of monitoring, with a hatching success rate of 75% and a fledging success rate of 85%. We used a set of generalised linear mixed models and model selection to examine the relative influence of various explanatory variables on hatching, fledging and overall breeding success. Breeding success in nest boxes significantly increased with shorter average pair bond length, longer guard period and later relative lay date. Guard period length was the best predictor of breeding success, followed by relative lay date and average pair bond length. Hatching success also increased with later relative lay date but fledging success was not influenced by any of the explanatory variables measured.
24052014|Weights, measurements and stomach-contents of a sample of shining cuckoos (Chrysococcyx lucidus) are summarised. Mean weights and measurements did not differ between the sexes. The diet comprised only insects, mainly caterpillars and beetles. A third of the caterpillars were larvae of the magpie moth (Nyctemera annulata) whose spines embed in the lining of the gizzard, and most beetles were ladybirds (Coccinellidae). Thus many prey were insects generally avoided by other birds. Ingested items were mostly less than 16 mm long, and a third were only 1-5 mm long.
24053313|Before European settlement, most of the 750,000 ha of land comprising the Canterbury Plains was under native tussock grassland with pockets of podocarp forest. The dominant land use today is mixed cropping in which cereals and cash crops are grown for 2 to 4 years followed by grass-clover pasture for 2 to 4 years. These cropping rotations are generally too short for either a substantial build-up in soil organic matter under pasture or its breakdown under arable cropping to occur. Nonetheless, there is a cyclic improvement in both N-supplying capacity and soil structure under pasture and a decline in both properties under arable. Large N inputs (e.g., 100-300 kg N ha1 yr1) occur through N2 fixation by the clover component of the pasture, but the potential for leaching losses of nitrate is substantial after the pasture is ploughed in. During the pasture phase there is an increase in temporary soil binding agents in the topsoil layer and consequently an increase in aggregate stability. There is also a change in soil porosity caused by pasture root growth and earthworm activity. In contrast, soil physical properties rapidly deteriorate under the arable phase of the rotation.
24054454|Species-rich moth faunas at two sites in a montane tussock grassland at Cass show major declines in the abundance of many common species between 1961-63 and 1987-89, furthering a 50- to 70-year trend. The recent faunal record (202 species) is quantified by a 3-point light-trapping methodology based on independence of serial samples, minimised sample variability and a posteriori data standardisation. An historical record of vegetation change is also presented, pointing to a major decline in endemic herb species with the advances of an adventive grass, Agrostis capillaris. Site differences feature in the analysis of vegetation and faunal changes. At the site with the greater loss of herbs and the 93% grass cover (a doubling in 26 years), the respective abundances of common herb- and grass-feeding moth species have declined 88% and 74% since 1961-63. A greater residual floral diversity at the other site (13% herb cover, 71% grasses) has to date favoured a lesser decline in grass-feeders (56%). Data analyses suggest that few common endemic grassland moths can survive as oligophages, most depending on feeding diversity. In the face of reducing diversity, the thrust of faunal conservation in induced Agrostis associations should be to manage the vegetation using adventive animals as allies. The evidence of the study supports and extends the author's earlier conservation guidelines.
24060862|If deterministic processes consistently structure ecological communities, similar patterns in species interactions should be observed in different geographic areas that experience similar environmental conditions. I tested for convergent patterns in dietary diversity of fruit-eating birds inhabiting similar latitude forests in the Northern and Southern hemispheres. I observed birds foraging for fruits over two fruiting seasons in both Nelson Lakes National Park, South Island, New Zealand, and the Pacific Rim National Park, Vancouver Island, Canada. I then conducted rarefaction analyses to compare community-level and species-level dietary diversity between geographic locales. Relationships between the size of each bird species and the average size of fruits consumed were also assessed. Results showed that the New Zealand bird community had greater overall dietary diversity than the Canadian community. However, similar levels of dietary diversity were observed among species within communities in both hemispheres. Positive relationships between bird size and fruit size were observed in New Zealand, but not in Canada. Therefore, while results showed some support for dietary convergence between hemispheres, several substantial differences were also observed, leading to mixed support for convergent patterns in the diets of fruit-eating birds between hemispheres.
24058202|In New Zealand, assessment of 'significance' is undertaken to give effect to a legal requirement for local authorities to provide for protection of significant sites under the Resource Management Act (1991). The ambiguity of the statute enables different interests to define significance according to their goals: vested interests (developers), local authorities, and non-vested interests in pursuit of protection of environmental public goods may advance different definitions. We examine two sets of criteria used for assessment of significance for biological diversity under the Act. Criteria adapted from the 1980s Protected Natural Areas Programme are inadequate to achieve the maintenance of biological diversity if ranking is used to identify only highest priority sites. Norton and Roper-Lindsay (2004) propose a narrow definition of significance, and criteria that identify only a few high-quality sites as significant. Both sets are likely to serve the interests of developers and local authorities, but place the penalty of uncertainty on non-vested interests seeking to maintain biological diversity, and are likely to exacerbate the decline of biological diversity and the loss of landscape-scale processes required for its persistence. When adopting criteria for assessment of significance, we suggest local authorities should consider whose interests are served by different criteria sets, and who will bear the penalty of uncertainty regarding biological diversity outcomes. They should also ask whether significance criteria are adequate, and sufficiently robust to the uncertainty inherent in the assessment of natural values, to halt the decline of indigenous biological diversity.
24053309|Scattered small stands of Nothofagus truncata occur in the upper Taramakau catchment, Arthur's Pass National Park, beyond the previously assumed range of the species in north Westland. Restricted to older soils on stable north to north-west slopes, the N. truncata stands are surrounded by N. fusca dominated forest and their upper altitudinal limits at 370-500 m border N. fusca-N. menziesii or N. solandri var. cliffortioides forest. The nearest existing seed sources are located more than 20 km to the north in the Lake Haupiri region, north Westland. Cyathodes fasciculata and Metrosideros perforata are associated with N. truncata in one or more of the stands and are recorded for the first time in Arthur's Pass National Park. The biogeographical significance of the N. truncata stands is discussed.
24052768|The home ranges of four male and five female feral house cats (Felis catus) were studied by radio-telemetry. In the narrow, steep-sided valley the home ranges of cats were linear, with an average length of 6.34 km for males and 3.83 km for females; only large males crossed the river. Females with kittens had small home ranges of 0.84 to 2.0 km. Home ranges of animals of the same sex, including breeding females, overlapped considerably. The social organisation of feral cats at low density differs little from that of higher-density free-ranging domestic cats.
24052785|Deer density indices were estimated in 1969, 1975, and 1984 in the core of the Wapiti Area of Fiordland National Park. Between 1969 and 1984, density above timberline was reduced to near zero by commercial airborne hunting, with smaller decreases in the forest. Overall density declined by 81%. An estimated 2007  385 deer were present in the 850 km2 survey area in 1984, with an average density in the forest of 3.47  0.66/km2. The highest densities remained in the most completely forested sub-area (Catseye). Deer distribution within the forests became more clumped as densities decreased and, in 1984, was determined by slope, forest type, and terrain. The proportion of deer considered to be wapiti decreased from 100% in the 1920s to 17.7% in 1982-83. The decline is thought to be due to hybridisation and competition with the sympatric red deer, and not the result of differential harvesting. Most remaining wapiti are concentrated between George and Bligh Sounds and eastwards, including the George, Edith, Wapiti, and Glaisnock catchments.
24052701|It will be necessary to establish reserves for the conservation of New Zealand's forest avifauna largely in the absence of detailed autecological studies. Hence the empirical findings of island biogeography may provide the best available guide to the reserve size necessary for the preservation of both species communities and individual species. The occurrence of indigenous forest birds on offshore islands suggests that reserves of the order tens of km2 or larger of comparable forest habitat may be necessary on the mainland to ensure a high probability of the long-term survival of all species which still occur there. The area requirements of individual species tend to increase with the degree of endemism and reliance on indigenous forest habitats.
24060784|Vocalisations are important for territorial defence, mate attraction, and species recognition in many songbirds. Comparative studies on the songs of birds between islands and mainland populations provide insight into the evolution of vocal communication in terms of both ecological and social factors. We compared the vocalisations of tui (Prosthemadera novaeseelandiae novaeseelandiae), an endemic honeyeater from New Zealand's mainland, with those of a subspecies from the remote Chatham Islands (P. n. chathamensis). Song spectral variables of male long-range 'broadcasting' songs differed between mainland and Chatham Island tui populations. Songs recorded from five mainland populations had significantly greater syllable diversity and produced a higher percentage of trills than those from the Chatham Islands. These characteristics have been revealed in past studies as being sexually selected traits positively correlated with male genetic diversity. The acoustic adaptation hypothesis could also help to elucidate the presence of a significantly higher percentage of trill components in the songs of the mainland population, as the mainland study sites in general contained more areas of open vegetation, where trills transmit more effectively than in dense forest, which dominated the sampling sites on the Chatham Islands. Future research into the variation of tui song complexity in relation to population size, geographic isolation, and habitat structure between different mainland sites would provide further insight into links between selective pressures and vocal complexity.
24060736|Understanding the factors that drive population persistence and growth is fundamental to both conservation management and evolutionary biology. Internal (maternal) and external (environmental) factors can affect female reproductive output, and in oviparous reptiles both may strongly influence offspring phenotype and quality. However, the link between these effects, their importance for reproductive output and offspring characteristics of live-bearing lizards, and whether population declines are linked to these factors in modified versus native habitats are unknown. We used a common New Zealand skink species, Oligosoma maccanni (McCann's skink), found in grazed native and exotic grassland to test whether differences in environmental or maternal characteristics influenced birth date, pregnancy success and offspring phenotype. In both grassland types the date of birth was c. 8 days earlier at lower altitudes (altitudinal range = 564719 m a.s.l), and small females were less likely to have successful pregnancies. However, larger females had more weak or deformed offspring, suggesting that reproductive senescence may exist in this species. While other research shows that exotic grasslands do not support as many skinks as native tussock grassland, reproductive success of pregnant skinks (viable litter size) was not affected by habitat modification. However, neonates had greater body condition (mass for length) when from females with higher post-partum body condition, and these females were from the native tussock grasslands. In conjunction with previously published data on McCann's skink, our data suggest that reduced offspring quality may contribute to the lower population numbers in the exotic habitats.
24054437|The diets of feral pigs and feral goats shot on the main Auckland Island in 1989 are described from analyses of stomach and rumen contents. Feral goats ate at least 50 species of plants, but only three, Metrosideros umbellata, Chionochloa antarctica, and Durvillea antarctica made up over 50% by dried weight of the food eaten. Feral pigs ate a mixed plant and animal diet, of which plants made up 61% of the diet, with the megaherb Anisotome antipoda being the largest dietary item at 38% by dried weight. The animals eaten by pigs were mostly annelids, at 26% by dry weight of their diet, and there was little evidence of predation or scavenging on birds. Goats have subsequently been eradicated from the island, but feral pigs remain arguably a potential threat to current conservation values and certainly an impediment to any restoration of the island's natural values.
24058199|New Zealand honeydew beech forests are the only natural ecosystem where large quantities of above-ground labile carbon are added year-round. Microbes can potentially play an important role in the flux of nutrients through food webs; because of their potential for specialisation to sugar-rich niches we tested for the presence of yeasts in the honeydew system. We found at least two abundant species (Hanseniaspora osmophila and Candida railenensis), as well as two species (Zygosaccharomyces cidri and Z. rouxii) likely present at lower frequencies. Only Candida railenensis is known to be associated with Nothofagus, but the other species are associated with fruits and winemaking/fermentation. These other species found in honeydew may be indigenous, but it is also possible that they represent microbial examples of invasive species and consequently add to the considerable list of human-introduced species that have invaded New Zealand's ecosystem.
24054543|The sex ratio of the kaka population inhabiting the Waihaha Ecological Area, Pureora Forest Park was estimated between late October 1994 and January 1995. The observed sex ratio estimate was three males to one female compared to a capture rate (using mist nets) of six to one in the same area between January and June 1994. Females appeared to be less susceptible to capture than males. The skewed sex ratio toward male kaka was significant and suggests that female kaka suffer higher mortality (probably due to predation at the nest) than males. The slow breeding rate of kaka combined with a high loss of breeding females is a serious threat to the long term survival of the kaka population within the Waihaha Ecological Area.
24054428|We studied the ecology of a high-density population of stoats in Fiordland, New Zealand, in the summer and autumn of 1990-91 following a Nothofagus seeding in 1990. Results are compared with findings from the same area in 1991-92, a period of lower stoat density. In the high-density year, minimum home ranges (revealed by radio-tracking) of four females averaged 69 ha and those of three males 93 ha; range lengths averaged 1.3 km and 2.5 km respectively. Neither difference was statistically significant. For combined sexes, average range area in the high-density year was significantly less, and range length was significantly shorter, than in the following year. When we compared stoat diet in the high-density year with that in the following two years, there were no significant differences in the frequencies of occurrence of birds or invertebrates in stoat guts. Overall, bird remains were found in 56% of guts, and invertebrates in 28%. Possum remains occurred in 6% of male stoats but were never found in females. Mice were only detected in stoats in the high-density year, when they occurred in 54% of guts. Lagomorphs occurred significantly more often in the guts of stoats during lower-density years (26%) than the high-density year (7%). Seedfall in Nothofagus forest is synchronous and periodic. Following seedfall, mouse density rises dramatically, followed by a sharp rise in stoat numbers. It has been suggested that mice feed on the abundant seed and that stoats in turn increase because of the large numbers of mice available to them. We suggest that the situation is more complex and that increases in not only mouse, but also bird (and possibly invertebrate), densities may contribute to the high productivity of stoats in the year following a Nothofagus seedfall.
24060880|The establishment of ecological areas, a network of predominantly forest reserves, was initiated by the former New Zealand Forest Service (NZFS) in the 1970s within the context of large-scale utilisation and exotic conversion proposals for indigenous State forest lands on the West Coast and in Southland. Unlike other types of protected natural area, ecological areas were primarily selected to be representative of the natural features within ecological districts. Although 112 ecological areas covering 344 753 ha (1.29% of New Zealand's land area) have now been established, their geographic distribution is uneven with disproportionately large numbers in the West Coast, Waikato and East Coast Bay of Plenty Department of Conservation conservancies. While the intent of the NZFS in gazetting ecological areas was that they would receive the highest level of protection possible, they have not been afforded this level of protection under the Conservation Act 1987 and the Crown Minerals Act 1991, or under conservation management strategies. The identification and protection of ecological areas has not extended beyond former State forest land. With two exceptions, all ecological areas are open to mining despite their high values. Ecological areas are on a par with national parks in terms of their ecological values and they warrant the highest level of protection and management. Specific actions to recognise the special value of ecological areas in legislation, policy and management are recommended.
24058163|The concept of ecosystem engineering has been proposed recently to account for key processes between organisms and their environment which are not directly trophic or competitive, and which result in the modification, maintenance and/or creation of habitats. Since the initial reporting of the idea, little work has been undertaken to apply the proposed concept to potential ecosystem engineers in the marine environment. Biological and ecological data for the burrowing ghost shrimp Callianassa filholi (Decapoda: Thalassinidea) allowed for a formal assessment of this species as an ecosystem engineer, in direct accordance with published criteria. Despite a low population density and the short durability of its burrow structures, Callianassa filholi affected a number of resource flows by its large lifetime per capita activity. Ecosystem effects were evident in significant changes in macrofauna community composition over small spatial and temporal scales. Seasonal variation in the effects of ghost shrimp activity were associated with changes in seagrass (Zostera novazelandica) biomass, which revealed the probability of interactions between antagonistic ecosystem engineers. The formal assessment of Callianassa filholi provides the opportunity to aid discussion pertaining to the development of the ecosystem engineering concept.
24058218|Nearly one quarter of New Zealand's unique vascular plant flora is threatened, and weed invasion is implicated in the decline of more than half of these threatened species. However, there is little experimental evidence showing that invasive weeds have a direct impact on threatened native plants. This study experimentally tested the hypothesis that competition with invasive weeds threatens the rare outcrop plant Pachycladon cheesemanii (Brassicaceae). Pachycladon cheesemanii is a threatened South Island, New Zealand endemic with a distribution nearly confined to rock outcrops. It has disappeared from historical record sites throughout its range. The effects of weed competition and habitat on P. cheesemanii establishment, growth and survival were investigated by sowing seed into replicated plots subject to three treatments: weed removal, soil disturbed and unweeded control, in three habitat types: forested and open rock outcrops and open tussock grassland. The experiments were carried out at three locations: Mt Somers (Canterbury), Wye Creek and Diamond Lake (Otago). Within weedy rock outcrop habitat, weed removal significantly increased the rate of P. cheesemanii germination, and appeared to increase seedling growth rates, implying that weeds can negatively impact populations. Relative to rock outcrop habitat, P. cheesemanii germination was very low in adjacent open grassland habitat regardless of weeding treatment. Demographic monitoring of four natural populations of P. cheesemanii revealed that seed production is highly variable among populations and may be limited by browse and mechanical damage to inflorescences. Pachycladon cheesemanii does produce a persistent seed bank but most seed is found close to parent populations. Our results suggest that competition with invading weeds threatens current P. cheesemanii populations, that plant establishment can be enhanced by weed removal, and that considerable potential exists for artificially expanding populations by sowing seed into appropriate weed-free habitat.
24060858|Most New Zealand wetlands formed at or after the end of the last glaciation (c. 18 000 cal yrs BP). Those associated with major rivers and close to the coast tend to be young as erosive processes both destroy and initiate wetlands. However, there is a strong linear trend in initiations since 14 000 cal yrs BP, which suggests that geomorphic processes such as soil deterioration, landslides, sand dune movement and river course changes are constantly adding new, permanent wetlands. Most wetlands began as herbaceous fens but usually transitioned to shrub- or forest-covered bogfen systems, in particular after the beginning of the Holocene (11 500 cal yrs BP). Raised bogs formed from fens during the late-glacial and early Holocene, when river down-cutting isolated them from groundwater inflow. As climates warmed through the late-glacial and early Holocene, wooded wetlands spread and over 75% of lowland peat profiles preserve wood layers. Large basins with high water inflow often contain lakes or lagoons and have maintained herbaceous swamps, whereas those with limited catchments have become almost entirely covered with forest or shrubs. Wetlands in drier districts tend to have been initiated during the mid- and late Holocene as the climate cooled and rain-bearing systems penetrated more often. Ombrogenous montane and alpine bogs may have been initiated by the same climate change. Natural fires frequently burnt some wetlands, particularly within the vast bog complexes of the Waikato Basin, but many wetlands record occasional fire episodes. By the time Mori arrived in the 13th century, about 1% of the landscape was covered with some form of wetland and most of that wetland was under woody cover. Mori firing of the landscape began the process of removing the woody cover, which induced wetter, more herbaceous systems and initiated new wetlands. Deforestation of catchments in drier districts increased water yield that may in turn have created lowland fens and lagoons. European logging, fire and draining destroyed both pristine forested wetlands and fire-transformed systems from the Mori settlement era. The loss of wetlands is now largely a crisis of continued degradation through draining, weed invasion and fire in already human-altered systems in productive landscapes. Wetland history can help assess values and inform goals for conservation of wetlands, but transformation of the lowland landscape has been so complete that an historically authentic endpoint is unrealistic for most wetlands. The major conservation emphasis should be on larger wetlands that provide a range of ecosystem services.
24056368|Publishing trends in the New Zealand and Australian Journals' of Ecology (NZJE and AJE) were compared (1953-97) and publishing by contemporary (1997) Australasian authors examined from mid-1995 to 1998. The NZJE published a smaller proportion (9%) of their authors total manuscripts than the AJE (13%). Both Journals' authors published almost 70% of their manuscripts in international journals and 31% (NZ) and 35% (Aust.) in their local journals. The AJE consistently contained a high proportion (80%) of papers on the fundamental ecology of native species. In contrast, the NZJE gradually increased the proportion of papers on the ecology, impacts and management of exotic species (13%, 1953-62 to 52%, 1993-97) and reduced the proportion of manuscripts investigating the fundamental ecology of native species from 67% (1953-62) to 28% (1993-97). Comparisons show that the difference between the journals is due to a fundamental difference in the emphasis of ecological research in Australia and New Zealand that can, in part, be attributed to differences in the relative contribution of government research agencies to publishing in ecology in the two countries. Government research agencies contribute relatively more to ecological publishing in and from New Zealand than they do in Australia. However, the differences were also amplified by different submission behaviour by Australian and New Zealand authors. When submitting manuscripts about the ecology of native species and ecosystems, New Zealand ecologists favoured international journals rather than the NZJE, and local journals generally. Australian ecologists, on the other hand, favoured international journals over the AJE when submitting manuscripts on the ecology, impacts and management of exotic species.
24054507|Spider assemblages were sampled by quantitative sampling in pasture and arable habitats under different management regimes in the lower North Island of New Zealand. Density and species diversity increased with decreasing frequency and/or intensity of disturbance from two species and 1.8 individuals m2 in wheat to 16 species and 130 indiv. m2 in an abandoned, ungrazed pasture. The spider fauna was dominated by introduced species of money spiders (Linyphiidae). The most abundant species, Lepthyphantes tenuis, is also the most abundant one in British cultivated habitats. Additional pitfall trap samples from the same location and the Waikato, central North Island, indicated a similar species range containing mainly European species. A sample from a native tussock habitat had a completely different fauna, with only one species shared with the most undisturbed cultivated area. Comparative samples showed that similarly structured, but about twice as species-rich assemblages live in similar cultivated habitats in England.
24060710|We outline the scope of this special issue of New Zealand Journal of Ecology, which reviews progress in New Zealand ecology to 2009, based on a symposium in 2007. Both the issue and symposium update a 1986 conference and 1989 special issue of NZ J Ecol called "Moas, Mammals and Climate" which has been influential and widely cited. This issue revisits several themes featured in 1989, including the extent of recent and prehistoric extinctions in the New Zealand fauna; effects of introduced mammalian herbivores replacing now-extinct browsing birds such as moa; the impacts of introduced mammalian predators on native birds (hence the Feathers to Fur title); the role of islands as refuges and opportunities for restoration; and the status of bird-plant mutualisms like pollination and fruit dispersal. Several topics not discussed in 1989 are raised, including the unusual size and functional composition of New Zealand's tree flora, and several taxonomic groups (invertebrates, fungi) and habitats (fresh waters) that received little attention in 1989. We summarise four symposium talks which are not included elsewhere in this issue. New Zealand leads the world in ways both unenviable (e.g. levels of impact of introduced species) and enviable (e.g. predator eradication, translocations, rare species management). The recent advances reviewed in this issues have relevance well beyond New Zealand.
24052702|This paper considers how habitat geometry affects New Zealand bird distributions on land-bridge islands, oceanic islands, and forest patches. The data base consists of distributions of 60 native land and freshwater bird species on 31 islands. A theoretical section examines how species incidences should vary with factors such as population density, island area, and dispersal ability, in two cases: immigration possible or impossible. New Zealand bird species are divided into water-crossers and non-crossers on the basis of six types of evidence. Overwater colonists of New Zealand from Australia tend to evolve into non-crossers through becoming flightless or else acquiring a fear of flying over water. The number of land-bridge islands occupied per species increases with abundance and is greater for water-crossers than for non-crossers, as expected theoretically. Non-crossers are virtually restricted to large land-bridge islands. The ability to occupy small islands correlates with abundance. Some absences of species from particular islands are due to man-caused extinctions, unfulfilled habitat requirements, or lack of foster hosts. However, many absences have no such explanation and simply represent extinctions that could not be (or have not yet been) reversed by immigrations. Extinctions of native forest species due to forest fragmentation on Banks Peninsula have especially befallen non-crossers, uncommon species, and species with large area requirements. In forest fragments throughout New Zealand the distributions and area requirements of species reflect their population density and dispersal ability. All these patterns make abundantly clear that the future of New Zealand bird species confined to native forest hinges on preserving large tracts of native forest.
24060650|Feral cats were trapped and cat scats collected at Port Ross, Auckland Island, during two weeks in winter 2007. Eleven cats were caught and 40 scats collected, including from upland tussock areas. Cats' diet predominantly consisted of birds (77.5% occurrence in scats) and mice (52.5% occurrence). The cats were relatively heavy and in good condition compared with other feral cats in New Zealand populations.
24052815|Trend in the proportion of bare ground in some Canterbury tussock grasslands is analysed using records of vegetative cover from Fox Peak, South Opuha River (1963-1985); Porter River (1976-1984); Waimakariri Basin (1962-1978); and central Waimakariri River (1947-1981). The overall proportion of bare ground changed little in all four surveys. The lowest altitude site at Fox Peak and a low altitude plot in Porter River, showed a significant decrease in bare ground. Other plots and transects in Porter River and Fox Peak, and the Waimakariri Basin records showed no overall change. No significant trend was found for any of the central Waimakariri River transects, although some 20 m long segments of some transects show significant trends. The surveys suggest that there has been no overall increase or decrease in bare ground in the last 10-35 years, although vegetation composition has changed in some areas and significant decreases have occurred on some low altitude sites and significant increases on sites with more than 80% bare ground.
24056189|We examined the threat status of the low tree Pittosporum patulum throughout its range in eastern South Island, based on plot-based sampling of habitat, defoliation by mammalian herbivores, demographic and dieback characteristics. Using environmental modelling (Land Environments of New Zealand), we found no explanation for the 'gap' in its disjunct distribution from NelsonMarlboroughnorth Canterbury to south Canterbury as a component of upper montane Nothofagus forest and non-Nothofagus subalpine scrub. Size-classes in some populations suggest pulses of recruitment that may be phenologically or disturbance engendered, whereas others have demographic evidence for more continuous recruitment. In forest, disturbance appears not as important as environmental stress in maintaining understorey light gaps that allow it to reach reproductive maturity. A range of introduced mammalian herbivores appear to defoliate P. patulum, although consistently high levels of defoliation on adult foliage above ungulate browseheight point to possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) as the main pest. Demographic data and herbarium records show adults are few in NelsonMarlborough and north Canterbury, where the species' viability is in question despite many juveniles. Alternatively, south Canterbury populations, although browsed, show less dieback, especially in subalpine scrub. Its variable demography may be related to the history of possum colonisation throughout its range. Evidential support is provided for its threat ranking of 'nationally endangered'.
24056367|The idea that naturalised invading plants have fewer phytophagous insects associated with them in their new environment relative to their native range is often assumed, but quantitative data are few and mostly refer to pests on crop species. In this study, the incidence of seed-eating insect larvae in flowerheads of naturalised Asteraceae in New Zealand is compared with that in Britain where the species are native. Similar surveys were carried out in both countries by sampling 200 flowerheads of three populations of the same thirteen species. In the New Zealand populations only one seed-eating insect larva was found in 7800 flowerheads (0.013% infected flowerheads, all species combined) in contrast with the British populations which had 487 (6.24%) flowerheads infested. Possible reasons for the low colonization level of the introduced Asteraceae by native insects in New Zealand are 1) the relatively recent introduction of the plants (100-200 years), 2) their phylogenetic distance from the native flora, and 3) the specialised nature of the bud-infesting habit of the insects.
24052794|The foraging behaviour, diet and habitat use of North Island kokako (Callaeas cinerea wilsoni) were studied in Puketi State Forest from October 1981 to August 1982. Kokako fed mainly from branches and twigs of canopy and upper-understorey plants. Although 68 different foods were eaten, only eight contributed more than 5% to the observed diet in any season. The diet consisted of fruit (44%), unknown foods (18%), leaves (15%), epiphytes (11%), invertebrates (8%), buds (2%), flowers (1%) and nectar (1%). The use of these food-types varied seasonally. Fruit consumption was high in summer, autumn and winter, and invertebrates were taken mainly in spring. Kokako ate leaves, including those of epiphytes, most often in winter and least often in summer. When epiphytes, lianes and invertebrates are included with their host trees, kokako obtained most food from shrub hardwoods (54%). Use of the other vegetation types for food was as follows: tree hardwoods (30%); podocarps (14%); ground-storey plants (1%); and tree ferns (1%). Kokako fed mainly between the crown foliage of canopy trees and 3 m from the ground, where shrub hardwoods and much of the foliage of tree hardwoods and epiphytes predominated.
24053310|The impact of discharging an oxidation pond effluent into a wetland in the Waitangi Forest (Northland) was assessed by comparing the water, soil, and vegetation of this wetland (the sewage wetland) with that of an adjacent wetland not receiving effluent (the reference wetland). The hydroperiod of the two wetlands differs markedly with the sewage wetland now permanently flooded whereas the reference wetland is subject to summer drawdown. Marked differences were found in gross chemical indicators such as pH and redox potential between the soils of the 2 wetlands. Extreme differences were also found in the nutrient chemistry of the soils and this was related to differences in water chemistry. This was especially the case for the plant available forms of nitrogen and phosphorus. Typically the sewage wetland soil contained ammonium and inorganic phosphorus two orders of magnitude greater than that of the reference wetland. Major differences were noted also in the plant communities of the two wetlands. The sedge Eleocharis sphacelata and the bulrush Typha orientalis dominated communities covering a large part of the sewage wetland, whereas the reference wetland contained a much more diverse Baumea-Isachne grassy sedge community. Historical information indicated that the sewage wetland had similar hydrological, chemical, botanical characteristics to the reference wetland before discharge of the effluent commenced. It is concluded that most of the vegetation community changes that have occurred may be interpreted in terms of allogenic succession but that future community changes will have a strong autogenic component.
24056192|Little is known about the movement of stoats in alpine grassland, where several species of native birds, reptiles and invertebrates are potentially at risk from predation. Radio-tracking, live trapping and tracking tunnel techniques were used to sample stoats in two adjacent habitats to determine whether the home range of stoats in beech forest valley floors extends into neighbouring alpine grasslands in the Ettrick Burn Valley, Fiordland. If this is the case then trapping stoats in the more easily accessible beech forest valley floors might serve to protect endangered species inhabiting the adjacent but more remote alpine grasslands. Between December 2000 and March 2001, 415 radio locations were collected on 15 stoats and none were observed to make any significant movements between the two habitats. Stoats were active in alpine grasslands, and trapping in the adjacent beech forest valley would not have caught those stoats during the time-frame of this study. Further research is needed to determine long term impacts of trapping in beech forest on stoats in alpine grasslands. During the timeframe of this research stoats were more abundant in beech forest than in alpine grasslands, and tracking tunnels showed this trend to be consistent at other sites.
24058222|Although invertebrates play a key role in the environment, their conservation and use in environmental monitoring is often considered "too difficult" and consequently ignored. One of the main problems in dealing with invertebrates is that even limited sampling can yield large numbers of specimens and an enormous diversity of species. Other problems include the taxonomic impediment (i.e. high proportions of invertebrate taxa are undescribed and there are few specialists available to identify specimens), the lack of knowledge on species distribution, diversity and ecological roles, and the fact that invertebrates are undervalued by the general public. A number of rapid biodiversity assessment (RBA) approaches have been suggested to overcome these problems. RBA approaches generally fall into four categories: (1) restricted sampling in place of intensive sampling (sampling surrogacy); (2) the use of higher taxonomic levels than species (species surrogacy); (3) the use of recognisable taxonomic units (RTUs) identified by non-specialists (taxonomic surrogacy); and (4) the use of surrogate taxa in place of all taxa (taxon-focusing). Australia has a long history of using invertebrates in terrestrial ecological studies, and in developing and using RBA approaches. Therefore, New Zealand could benefit from the experienced gained in Australia. Potentially one of the most useful RBA approaches to take in New Zealand involves focusing resources and attention on a limited range of taxa. However, this requires substantial communication, discussion, and agreement over which taxa should be selected for conservation priorities and environmental monitoring in terrestrial ecosystems.
24056329|Fleshy fruits are typically coloured either red or black and are displayed in conspicuous locations where they can be easily located by birds. However, fleshy fruits in New Zealand are often white or translucently coloured and are displayed in the inner recesses of plant canopies. These characteristics have been attributed to coevolution with reptiles. I describe seed dispersal by a ground weta in Nelson lakes National Park, and hypothesise that the unusual characteristics of fleshy fruits in New Zealand may result from coevolution with weta.
24056358|Immediately before human settlement, dense tall podocarp-angiosperm forest dominated the moist Southland and southern coastal Otago districts. Open, discontinuous podocarp-angiosperm forest bordered the central Otago dry interior, extending along the north Otago coast. Grassland was mostly patchy within these woody ecosystems, occurring on limited areas of droughty or low-nutrient soils and wetlands, or temporarily after infrequent fire or other disturbance. Podocarpus hallii, Phyllocladus alpinus and Halocarpus bidwillii, small-leaved and asterad shrubs formed low forest and shrub associations in the semi arid interior, with Nothofagus menziesii prominent in the upper montane-subalpine zone. Substantial grasslands were confined to the alpine zone and dry terraces in intermontane basins. The arrival of the first Maori settlers at c. 800 BP led immediately to widespread burning and near-elimination of the fire-sensitive woody vegetation from all but the wettest districts. Non-Chionochloa grasses (probably species of Poa, Elymus and Festuca) and, in particular, bracken were the first to spread after fire; later, with continued fire, the more slowly spreading Chionochloa tussock grasslands became common. A unique suite of dryland woody ecosystems has thus been replaced with fire-induced grasslands. Recreation of the pre-human vegetation cover from the surviving small remnants is problematical because of the anomalous fire-sensitivity of the indigenous drought-tolerant flora. In the current historically unprecedented fire-prone environment, perhaps the best that can be hoped for is preservation of the status quo.
24060635|A number of factors have combined to diminish ecosystem integrity in New Zealand indigenous lowland forest fragments surrounded by intensively grazed pasture. Livestock grazing, mammalian pests, adventive weeds and altered nutrient input regimes are important drivers compounding the changes in fragment structure and function due to historical deforestation and fragmentation. We used qualitative systems modelling and empirical data from Beilschmiedia tawa dominated lowland forest fragments in the Waikato Region to explore the relevance of two common resilience paradigms  engineering resilience and ecological resilience  for addressing the conservation management of forest fragments into the future. Grazing by livestock and foraging/predation by introduced mammalian pests both have direct detrimental impacts on key structural and functional attributes of forest fragments. Release from these perturbations through fencing and pest control leads to partial or full recovery of some key indicators (i.e. increased indigenous plant regeneration and cover, increased invertebrate populations and litter mass, decreased soil fertility and increased nesting success) relative to levels seen in larger forest systems over a range of timescales. These changes indicate that forest fragments do show resilience consistent with adopting an engineering resilience paradigm for conservation management, in the landscape context studied. The relevance of the ecological resilience paradigm in these ecosystems is obscured by limited data. We characterise forest fragment dynamics in terms of changes in indigenous species occupancy and functional dominance, and present a conceptual model for the management of forest fragment ecosystems.
24060765|We used recent satellite imagery to quantify the extent, type, and rate of conversion of remaining indigenous grasslands in the inland eastern South Island of New Zealand in recent years. We describe the pattern of conversion in relation to national classifications of land use capability and land environments, and ecological and administrative districts and regions. We show that although large areas of indigenous grasslands remain, grassland loss has been ongoing. Indigenous grassland was reduced in the study area by 3% (70 200 ha) between 1990 and 2008. Almost two-thirds of post-1990 conversion occurred in threatened environments with less than 30% of indigenous cover remaining, primarily in the Waitaki, Mackenzie and Central Otago administrative districts. This conversion occurred primarily on non-arable land. In the Mackenzie and Waitaki districts the rate of conversion in 20012008 was approximately twice that in 19902001. Opportunities to protect more of the full range of indigenous grasslands lie with the continuing tenure review process in these districts.
24060722|Compared with the effect of invaders on the native terrestrial fauna of New Zealand, interactions between native fishes and introduced trout (sports fish in the genera Salmo, Oncorhynchus and Salvelinus) are less well known and there have been fewer efforts to remedy their effects. Trout have caused widespread reductions in the distribution and abundance of native galaxiid fishes, a family dominated by threatened species. The effects have been most severe on non-diadromous species (those lacking a marine migratory stage), which are commonly eliminated from streams by trout. Galaxiid populations in lakes, and those with migratory 'whitebait' stages, have also been affected, but the extent of the impacts are less understood. The mechanisms controlling negative interactions between trout and native fish, and how the environment modifies those interactions, will be important for future management. Experiments and field comparisons indicate size-specific predation by trout is the main driver of negative interactions. Large trout (>150 mm long) do the greatest damage and small galaxiids (those with adult sizes <150 mm long) are the most at risk. The fry stage of non-diadromous galaxiids is particularly vulnerable. Despite galaxiid fry production in some trout-invaded reaches, often no fry survive making them population 'sinks' that must be sustained by adult dispersal. Trout are also associated with changes in galaxiid behaviour and alterations to stream benthic communities. However, effects on galaxiid growth and fecundity have been little studied. Recent work also indicates that habitat conditions, especially floods, low flows and natural acidity, can mediate troutgalaxiid interactions. We argue that managers should be more proactive in their response to the plight of galaxiids, and we indentify avenues of research that will benefit native fish conservation activities in the future.
24052797|Extensive damage to native forest followed a prolonged period of severe frosts (12 days; lowest minimum  15C) in inland Taranaki. In Tangarakau Scenic Reserve, damage was most severe near the boundary between bush and pasture. Some species such as rimu (Dacrydium cupressinum) and miro (Podocarpus ferrugineus) were not affected; others like mamaku (Cyathea medullaris) recovered within a year. Mahoe (Melicytus ramiflorus) took more than 14 months to recover. Tawa (Beilschmiedia tawa) was the most seriously affected; many trees had most of their leaves killed. By December 1986 (53 months after the frost) affected trees had bare, dead upper branches with new sprouts arising from lower on the tree. Frost-damaged trees produced little radial increment for several years after the frost. The slow recovery of tawa shows that occasional rare events may have an important role in determining forest composition, and that a small change in the frequency of such events could alter the balance between species.
24058183|New Zealand forests have been substantially modified by introduced red deer over the past century. New Zealand's indigenous forest managers need to know if regeneration of palatable tree species can be restored following control or eradication of browsing ungulates. Aorangi Forest, Wairarapa, suffered dramatic changes in forest understorey composition by the 1950s after more than seven decades of colonisation by red deer (Cervus elaphus), feral goats (Capra hircus) and pigs (Sus scrofa). Since then feral goats have been eradicated, but red deer and pigs persist throughout Aorangi Forest despite ongoing recreational hunting. This study uses data from paired fenced and unfenced plots established at seven sites in Aorangi Forest between 1981 and 1987, and remeasured in 2004, to show the effects of ungulates on tree ( 2 cm diameter at breast height) regeneration and growth. Our results show that browsing by red deer has prevented regeneration of kanono (Coprosma grandifolia), a highly palatable, fast-growing sub-canopy hardwood tree. Deer reduced the growth of mahoe (Melicytus ramiflorus) trees, probably by directly browsing epicormic shoots. The regeneration of other less palatable sub-canopy trees (e.g. porokaiwhiri, Hedycarya arborea), and slower-growing canopy species (e.g. hinau, Elaeocarpus dentatus and rewarewa, Knightia excelsa) appears to have been unaffected by deer browsing. Accordingly, tree species composition does not appear to have been greatly affected by browsing from deer populations in Aorangi Forest over the past two decades.
24060861|Artificial nests are frequently used to assess factors affecting survival of natural bird nests. We tested the potential for artificial nests to be used in a novel application, the prediction of nest predation rates at potential reintroduction sites where exotic predators are being controlled. We collected artificial nest data from nine sites with different predator control regimes around the North Island of New Zealand, and compared the nest survival rates with those of North Island robin (Petroica longipes) nests at the same sites. Most of the robin populations had been reintroduced in the last 10 years, and were known to vary in nest survival and status (increasing/stable or declining). We derived estimates of robin nest survival for each site based on Stanley estimates of daily survival probabilities and the known incubation and brooding periods of robins. Estimates of artificial nest survival for each site were derived using the known fate model in MARK. We identified the imprints on the clay eggs in the artificial nests, and obtained different estimates of artificial nest survival based on imprints made by different potential predators. We then compared the value of these estimates for predicting natural nest survival, assuming a relationship of the form s = p, where s is natural nest survival and p is artificial nest survival. Artificial nest survival estimates based on imprints made by rats (Rattus spp.) and brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) were clearly the best predictors (based on AICc), and explained 64% of the variation in robin nest survival among sites. Inclusion of bird imprints in the artificial nest survival estimates substantially reduced their predictive value. We suggest that artificial nests may provide a useful tool for predicting the suitability of potential reintroduction sites for New Zealand forest birds as long as imprints on clay eggs are correctly identified.
24060801|Succession from fire-induced grassland to secondary shrubland vegetation is occurring in parts of deforested dry eastern South Island, New Zealand, but little is known about how the change from herbaceous to woody vegetation alters the indigenous biota. We predicted that development of secondary shrublands would exclude few grassland-specialist plant species and increase indigenous plant 'species occupancy' (the extent to which indigenous species capable of living in dryland landscapes are present) at a landscape scale. We also predicted that taller and denser indigenous plant canopies would facilitate indigenous but not exotic plant species at multiple scales, for example by reducing exotic grass competition or through positive plantplant interactions. We tested our predictions by sampling vegetation in 100-ha blocks representing a gradient from grassland to mixed 'intermediate' grassland and shrubland to shrubland vegetation at three sites in Central Otago. We found indigenous plant species in shrubland were complementary to those in grassland (additional to the existing set) within and across our study sites, which led to higher indigenous species occupancy in this dryland landscape. Grassland vegetation did not support significant numbers of indigenous plant species complementary to those in shrubland, and we found no evidence that secondary succession displaced indigenous plant species. Shrubland had higher diversity of indigenous plant species than grassland at multiple scales (across sites, within 100-ha blocks and within 144-m2 plots), and had higher indigenous dominance of composition across sites, but not at smaller (within-block and within-plot) scales. Indigenous dominance of composition within blocks and plots was related to dominance of the physical structure of plant communities by indigenous woody plants or tussock grasses, rather than to development of secondary shrubland alone. Reduced densities of indigenous plant species were related to higher frequencies of exotic grass only where indigenous structural dominance was low, indicating that competitive exclusion of indigenous plants by exotic grasses may depend on degradation of indigenous structural dominance. We conclude that secondary succession from structurally-depleted grassland to mixed indigenousexotic shrubland is likely to assist the conservation of indigenous plant species in this dryland landscape.
24053651|Home range and diet of stoats inhabiting beech forest were examined by trapping and radio-tracking. Eleven stoats (6 female, 5 male) were fitted with radio-transmitters. Minimum home ranges of five females averaged 124  21 ha and of four males 206  73 ha. Range lengths of females averaged 2.3  0.3 km and of males 4.0  0.9 km. These differences were not statistically significant. Adult female stoats appeared to have mutually exclusive home ranges. Two females and one male had home ranges that were bisected by the Eglinton River. All three crossed the river regularly and could only have done so by swimming. Bird remains were found in 54% of stoat guts and scats examined, lagomorphs in 33%, and invertebrates in 34%. Australian brushtail possum remains were found in 11% of samples overall, but only in guts and scats from male stoats. A road through the study area affected the behaviour of stoats. Females avoided the road but males preferred it and were found scavenging road-kills, which may explain why they are more frequently found as road-kills themselves. In most years, New Zealand beech forest may be marginal habitat for stoats. No breeding was detected in the year of our study but there had been high productivity in the previous season. Stoats probably survive in this habitat because they are flexible in their diet and because their breeding biology allows them to respond rapidly to a sudden increase in food availability.
24052610|Circumstances that give rise to samples of dead animals from natural populations are considered and five important particular situations are emphasized. In two of these situations it is possible to estimate the absolute mortality rates of animals in the natural populations concerned. In the other three situations the populations comprise two or more different types of animal and only the relative mortality rates of these can be estimated. The most obvious examples of the first two situations come from bird banding experiments. Models for such experiments are therefore briefly reviewed. A Poisson model for samples of dead animals from a population with an unknown initial size is proposed and is shown to produce survival rate estimates that can be readily calculated on the assumption that the survival rate per unit time becomes constant for older animals. This model is of value since the estimation does not require iterative computer calculations whereas other models making essentially the same assumptions do require these. The third and fourth situations that have been considered concern large populations with relatively small numbers of deaths. The relative mortality rates of the different types of animals in the populations can be estimated by comparing the proportions of dead animals of the different types with the corresponding proportions of live animals. The final situation discussed occurs when animals have associated with them values for certain characters X1, X2,..., XP and the relative mortality rates of animals with different X values is to be determined by comparing the distribution of the X's for live and dead animals.
24058101|Small isolated patches of native forest surrounded by extensive pastoral grasslands, characteristic of many New Zealand rural landscapes, represent an important reservoir of lowland biodiversity. Improved management of them is a major focus of biodiversity conservation initiatives in New Zealand. We quantified the long-term impacts of grazing on indigenous forest remnants in hill country at Whatawhata, western Waikato, North Island. Structure and composition were compared between forest fragments grazed for >50 years and nearby ungrazed continuous forest. Grazed fragments had shorter and less shady canopies, sparser understoreys, tree populations with larger mean diameters, and ground layers with lower cover of litter and higher cover of vegetation and bare soil than continuous forest. Fragments also had lower indigenous-plant species richness, especially in sapling and seedling populations, and almost no palatable indigenous shrubs, terrestrial orchids, and ferns that require high himidity (e.g. Hymenophyllum spp.), but contained many indigenous and adventive herbaceous species. A transition appears to be occurring in grazed fragments from tall, long-lived trees like Beilschmiedia tawa and Dysoxylum spectabile to short and shorter-lived trees like Kunzea ericoides, Melicytus ramiflorus, and Dicksonia squarrosa. Because grazing inhibits most regeneration processes, unfenced remnants of coniferbroadleaved forest are unlikely to be maintained in grazed pasture in the long term.
24053243|The history of the New Zealand biota over the last 7000 years may be divided into three phases. BC 5000 to AD 1000 was a period of comparative ecological stasis. That equilibrium was disrupted between AD 1000 and AD 1800 by the destruction of most of the New Zealand plant-herbivore systems, the co-evolutionary relationship between the plants and the vertebrate herbivores being decoupled by about AD 1400. After AD 1800 new plant-herbivore systems were progressively developed and new ecological relationships forged. Our view of that past, and of how the future might best be managed, has less to do with those facts than with judgements of value.
24053639|A technique for inferring long term time trends in vegetation from permanent quadrat data using the different patterns in the scattergram of the mean and rates of change of attributes, e.g., cover, from individual quadrats over short periods is described. The technique is illustrated using point intercept cover data for Hieracium species from permanent transects in the Waimakariri measured at intervals over 35 years. There was an exponential increase of 8.6% of Hieracium spp. percentage cover once they appeared in a quadrat up to about 15% cover. The indications were that Hieracium may stabilize on these sites at an upper mean level of c. 34% cover.
24058157|Nutrients brought to land by seabirds may provide important subsidies to terrestrial ecosystems. We measured the total kjeldahl nitrogen (TKN) and carbon and nitrogen isotope ratios of soils from islands with and without seabirds in the Marlborough Sounds, New Zealand, to investigate one means by which seabirds may influence island ecosystem function. Isotope analysis revealed a seabird influence in island soils on the seabird-inhabited islands. However, significant differences in TKN were not related to seabird presence or absence. Pre-existing differences between the islands and high productivity even in the absence of seabirds were concluded to be the reasons for the lack of measurable seabird influence on nitrogen levels.
24053177|Norway rats were eradicated on bush-covered Hawea Island (9 ha) in Breaksea Sound, using the anticoagulant rodenticide "Talon 50 WB" (brodifacoum). The work was done as a conservation measure and to evaluate the feasibility and costs of eradicating rodents quickly from islands. The 50-100 rats present were eradicated in about two weeks by applying a simple strategy that took full account of the characteristics of the poison, the environment, and the behaviour of the target species. The technique used was designed to monitor its own progress, kill every rat as quickly as possible, continually detect the presence of surviving rats, limit the risk to non-target species, and overcome the many problems often associated with "getting the last rat".
24060623|Large trees are a significant structural component of old-growth forests and are important as habitat for epiphytic biodiversity; as substantial stores of biomass, carbon and nutrient; as seed trees; and as engineers of large gap sites for regeneration. Their low density across the landscape is an impediment to accurately measuring growth and mortality, especially as infrequent tree deaths are rarely captured without long periods of monitoring. Here we present large-tree ( 30 cm in diameter at breast height) growth and mortality rates for six common New Zealand tree species over a 42-year period from 28 large permanent plots (0.40.8 ha) in the central North Island. Our goal was to examine how rates of growth and mortality varied with tree size and species. In total we sampled 1933 large trees across 11.6 ha, corresponding to a large-tree density of 167 trees ha1, of which we used 1542 as our six study species. Mean annual mortality rates varied more than 10-fold among species being least in Dacrydium cupressinum (0.16%) and greatest in Weinmannia racemosa (2.21%). Diameter growth rates were less variable among species and ranged from 1.8 mm yr1 in Ixerba brexioides to 3.3 mm yr1 in D. cupressinum. Tree size influenced the rate of mortality in Beilschmiedia tawa, I. brexioides and W. racemosa but there was no support for including tree size in models of the remaining three species. Likewise, tree size influenced growth rates in I. brexioides and Nothofagus menziesii but not the remaining four species. These data provide robust size- and species-specific estimates of large-tree demographic rates that can be used as baselines for monitoring the impacts of management and global change in old-growth forests.
24058102|The establishment and subsequent impacts of invasive plant species often involve interactions or feedbacks with the below-ground subsystem. We compared the performance of planted tree seedlings and soil communities in three ectomycorrhizal tree species at Craigieburn, Canterbury, New Zealand  two invasive species (Pseudotsuga menziesii, Douglas-fir; Pinus contorta, lodgepole pine) and one native (Nothofagus solandri var. cliffortioides, mountain beech)  in monodominant stands. We studied mechanisms likely to affect growth and survival, i.e. nutrient competition, facilitation of carbon and nutrient transfer through mycorrhizal networks, and modification of light and soil conditions by canopy trees. Seedlings were planted in plastic tubes filled with local soil, and placed in monospecific stands. Effects of root competition from trees and mycorrhizal connections on seedling performance were tested by root trenching and use of tubes with or without a fine mesh (20 m), allowing mycorrhizal hyphae (but not roots) to pass through. Survival and growth were highest in stands of Nothofagus and lowest under Pseudotsuga. Surprisingly, root trenching and mesh treatments had no effect on seedling performance, indicating canopy tree species affected seedling performance through reduced light availability and altered soil conditions rather than below-ground suppression from root competition or mycorrhizal facilitation. Seedlings in Pseudotsuga stands had lower mycorrhizal colonisation, likely as a result of the lower light levels. Soil organic matter levels, microbial biomass, and abundance and diversity of microbe-consuming nematodes were all highest under Nothofagus, and nematode community assemblages differed strongly between native and non-native stand types. The negative effects of non-native trees on nematodes relative to Nothofagus are likely due to the lower availability of soil organic matter and microbial biomass in these stands, and therefore lower availability of resources for nematodes. This study shows that established stands of non-native invasive tree species may adversely affect tree seedlings and soil communities through modifications of the microenvironment both above and below ground. As such, invasion and domination of new landscapes by these species is likely to result in fundamental shifts in community- and ecosystem-level properties relative to those under native forest cover.
24054516|The Intermediate Disturbance Hypothesis [IDH] and the Gradual Climate Change Hypothesis [GCC] offer intuitively appealing, verbal non-equilibrium explanations to species coexistence in competitive communities, but so far they lack a solid theoretical background and a proper experimental methodology. To make them testable and comparable on a solid methodological basis, they should be formulated as well-defined non-equilibrium community dynamical models. We suggest that this is possible, if explicit assumptions on the spatiotemporal structure of the environment and the pattern-generating mechanisms of the species assemblage in question are given. In the framework of a non-spatial population dynamical model we show that disturbance and climate change effects can be safely distinguished, and the "intermediate" level of external effects leading to maximum community diversity can be quantified. Based on the information statistical analysis of field data and simulation results, we explain why it is necessary to consider simultaneously the spatiotemporal patterns of the vegetation, the abiotic environment and the disturbances in order to predict the consequences of external effects regarding community diversity.
24053636|Chionochloa species vary in the degree to which they are grazed by introduced ruminants. This is presumed to reflect the relative nutritive value and/or palatability of the forage provided by these indigenous grasses. Data are presented here on silicon content, in vitro organic matter digestibility (OMD), metabolisable energy (ME), crude protein and total nutrient mineral (TNM) contents of mature leaves of eleven Chionochloa species in southern New Zealand. Silification in all species is low, possibly as an evolutionary consequence of the absence of native mammalian herbivores in New Zealand. OMD determinations indicate a generally low nutritive value for these tussock grasses. Species characteristic of oligotrophic peats (C. acicularis and C. crassiuscula ssp. torta) produced very low values (20-25%) but others (C. pallens ssp. cadens, C. macra and C. ovata) approached OMD levels of medium quality pasture (50-60%). Crude protein values are also in the poor to moderate range (4.13% in C. acicularis to 8.34% in C. ovata). The values for total nutrient mineral content largely parallel those for protein. The results are discussed in relation to the apparent relative palatability of each species in the field, and the vulnerability to grazing of some species with restricted distributions.
24052708|Seventeen exclosures were built by the New Zealand Forest Service within Urewera forests over the period 196168 to exclude ungulates. Forest structure and species composition inside and outside these exclosures were compared in 198081. Some relatively shade tolerant species such as the fern Asplenium bulbiferum, the liane Ripogonum scandens, the sub-canopy shrubs Geniostoma ligustrifolium and Coprosma australis and the canopy species Beilschmiedia tawa were less abundant in certain tiers outside the exclosures than inside. By contrast, only a few species were more abundant outside then inside the exclosures. These included the unpalatable shrub Pseudowintera colorata, turf-forming Uncinia species and Cardamine debilis. Overall density and species richness for small diametered trees and for the sapling tier were lower outside the exclosures than inside. Despite the large reduction in ungulate numbers throughout Urewera forests these introduced browsing animals, particularly deer, still affect the structure and composition of most forest types.
24060892|Many reports exist of Australian magpies (Gymnorhina tibicen) attacking and sometimes killing other birds. One study concluded that magpies had little impact on the abundance of other birds at landscape scales, but another found that birds (mainly exotic species) avoided flying or landing close to them. We assessed whether continuously removing magpies for 6 weeks from localised areas of high resource availability (e.g. bush remnants or private gardens with fruit- or nectar-producing trees) in rural areas increased visitations by native birds compared with similar sites where magpies were not removed. Three count methods were used to estimate bird abundance: five-minute bird counts and 'slow-walk' transects in bush remnants, and five-minute bird counts and 'snapshot' counts in gardens. Generally, the abundance of native birds did not increase in treatment areas after magpie removal. In bush remnants, transect counts were typically better at detecting the presence of most species compared with five-minute bird counts. In gardens, snapshot counts were better at detecting tui (Prosthemadera novaeseelandiae) while five-minute bird counts were better at detecting magpies. Despite these differences, the different bird counting methods were generally in agreement and revealed that magpies had little impact on native birds at the scale we examined.
24054512|New Zealand flowers are frequently considered unspecialised allowing easy access to pollen and nectar by a wide range of visitors. Most conform with a syndrome of insect pollination (entomophily). Pollination of forest flowers by birds has been described for a range of species whose flowers are morphologically ornithophilous. On Kapiti Island and Little Barrier Island, all three species of New Zealand honeyeaters have been described feeding on flowers currently assumed to be entomophilous or where the pollination system is unknown. The persistence and regularity of visits suggests that the birds are obtaining suitable rewards in the form of nectar and could be serving as pollinators. We measured the nectar energetic value from flowers of three ornithophilous and five entomophilous species. Nectar production over 24 hours was highest in ornithophilous species, but the standing crop of nectar overlapped - ornithophilous species: Metrosideros fulgens (standing crop 6.6 J), Metrosideros excelsa (22 J), and Fuchsia excorticata (1.8 J); and entomophilous: Pittosporum crassifolium (23 J), Pseudopanax arboreus (1.5 J), Dysoxylum spectabile (3.7 early flowers - 6.7 J late flowers), Pittosporum eugenioides (2.7 J) and Geniostoma rupestre (1.8 J). The entomophilous species present the flowers in aggregation and as result birds can visit a large number flowers per minute. We found that the average estimated nectar consumption rate for all the entomophilous species except G. rupestre was enough to sustain the two smaller New Zealand honeyeaters (hihi energy requirements= 0.12 kJ min1, median energy obtained: 0.16 kJ min1 D. spectabile - 0.57 kJ min1 P. crassifolium); bellbird energy requirements = 0.10 kJ min1, median energy obtained: 0.14 kJ min1 D. spectabile - 0.68 kJ min1 P. crassifolium). However, we estimate that if the birds are able to selectively forage on the flowers with most nectar, the energetic returns of all species may be sufficient for hihi and bellbird (hihi: 0.18 kJ min1 G. rupestre - 0.93 kJ min1; P. crassifolium; bellbird: 0.12 kJ min1 G. rupestre - 1.11 kJ min1 P. crassifolium). If tui (energy requirements: 0.25 kJ min1), forages randomly, only P. crassifolium (0.80 kJ min1) and D. spectabile late in the season (0.30 kJ min1) provide sufficient returns, but if selective, P. arboreus (0.45 kJ min1) may also suffice. We suggest that because (a) the nectar produced by entomophilous flowers provides sufficient energy to sustain the energetic requirements of birds, and (b) these plants flower in the cooler months when insect activity is reduced, birds might have played a wider role in pollination than previously considered. This finding is of particular importance because the abundance of New Zealand honeyeaters on the mainland has decreased considerably since human colonisation and this could be affecting forest regeneration.
24054525|Fire has been an important management tool in the pastoral use of New Zealand tussock grasslands. The effects of a farm-scale pastoral fire and subsequent grazing by sheep on soil biochemical properties in tussock grasslands dominated by the narrow-leaved snow tussock (Chionochloa rigida ssp. rigida) were investigated, 1.5 and 2.5 years after the fire event, in 0-2 cm depth mineral soil at a site at 975 m altitude in Central Otago, New Zealand. The nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) concentrations of C. rigida leaves were also measured. Comparisons were made with soil and tussock leaves from an adjacent unburned site. At both samplings, values of total soil organic carbon (C), extractable C, microbial biomass C, and basal respiratory activity were, on average, 14%, 18%, 23%, and 40%, respectively, lower at the burned than at the unburned site. In contrast, microbial N values were roughly similar at both sites, while microbial P values were 42% higher at the burned site after 1.5 years. Phosphomonoesterase and phosphodiesterase activities were then also similar at both sites, whereas invertase activity was higher at the burned site. The greater availability of N and P at the burned site was confirmed by the higher concentrations of N and P in C. rigida leaves sampled 2 years after the fire. Ratios of microbial C:microbial N and microbial C:microbial P were significantly lower at both samplings at the burned site, and emphasise the importance of the soil microbial biomass in conserving N and P after pastoral burning in a grassland ecosystem.
24052015|Unusually heavy rodent interference with apple-baited live-traps set for brush-tailed possums (Trichosurus vulpecula Kerr) in a 15-year-old Pinus radiata stand prompted an attempt to reduce the local rodent population by snap-trapping. Twenty-two ship rats (Rattus rattus L.) were caught in 192 trap-nights in late July 1975 and seventeen of them were collected for autopsy. Stomach contents consisted largely of invertebrate remains, with lepidopteran larvae, wetas (Rhaphidophoridae) and bibionid larvae predominating.
24060616|Sap-feeding insects can excrete considerable quantities of sugar-rich honeydew. In New Zealand, South Island beech (Nothofagus spp.) forests are shaped by the extensive honeydew resource produced by two endemic coelostomidiid species (Ultracoelostoma assimile and U. brittini) and geckos on northern islands are known to feed on the honeydew of a third endemic coelostomidiid, Coelostomidia zealandica. There are six other endemic coelostomidiid species in New Zealand that utilise a range of plant hosts but the ecological role of these species is poorly understood. A survey of mainland forests in the Auckland Ecological Region was conducted in FebruaryApril 2006 to investigate the distribution and abundance of coelostomidiids in this area. Three coelostomidiid species were detected in the survey (C. zealandica, C. pilosa and C. wairoensis) and five new hostscale insect associations were identified. C. zealandica was uncommon, C. pilosa was widespread in broadleavedpodocarp forest but only formed light infestations, and C. wairoensis was present in all teatree stands examined, often forming heavy infestations on knuka (Kunzea ericoides). Infested knuka trees had sooty moulds growing on them and exotic wasps were regularly seen feeding on C. wairoensis honeydew. The extent and intensity of C. wairoensis infestation on knuka suggests it will have community-level impacts.
24053607|Scutellaria novae-zelandiae is a small herb restricted to the Nelson/Marlborough region. Aspects of its ecology were studied to assist in the management of wild populations. An absolute estimate of abundance is not possible as individual Scutellaria plants are indistinguishable and it grows in small patches up to 20 m2. There are probably between 50 and 100 such patches in podocarp-beech forest below 200 m a.s.l. on freely drained alluvium and colluvium. The vigour of Scutellaria patches as estimated from changes in shoot frequency and seed production varies widely depending on site conditions. It cannot tolerate competition from ferns, herbs, weeds, and shrub growth which occurs once the ground surface stabilises. Patches of Scutellaris have a marked seasonal variation in mean height, reaching a peak of approximately 12-15 cm during flowering (November-December), and then declining. Fresh Scutellaria seeds take several weeks to germinate and many enter the soil seed bank. Seedlings rarely appeared in bare ground plots at the field sites, but many emerged rapidly from topsoil samples placed in a glasshouse, along with abundant seedlings of vigorous adventive weeds. Scutellaria patches expand mainly by vegetative means. Scutellaria has been reduced in abundance by grazing at some sites, yet at others it has probably benefitted from grazing through the removal of competition from other plants, including adventive weeds. The implications of the results for the conservation of Scutellaria are mentioned.
