10.2307/3858669|Dendronotus frondosus (Ascanius 1774) is a common inhabitant of the intertidal zone of the lower Bay of Fundy. This nudibranch experiences great daily fluctuations in physical conditions that affect all aspects of its life cycle. We examined the effect of temperature (5, 11, and 15 C) on the development time of eggs of an intertidal population of this species. Eggs developed more slowly at 5 C than at 11 C and did not develop past the second polar body stage at 15 C. The effect of this difference in development time may be to compress the settlement period to span less time than the oviposition period.
10.2307/3858597|Since the mid 19th century, only eight records of hooded seals (Cystophora cristata) have been documented from the Bay of Fundy and northern Gulf of Maine. Between 1994 and 1998 thirty-one additional records have been reported, suggesting a recent and dramatic increase in this ice-breeding seal in the region.
40664877|Ondatra zibethicus (Muskrat) is one of the most widely distributed furbearers in eastern North America. Anecdotal evidence suggests that Muskrats are experiencing a regional decline in numbers, although little empirical evidence exists to support this claim. Our objectives were to document temporal trends in Muskrat harvest in eastern North America, and to use the relationship between harvest and pelt price to infer potential trends in regional Muskrat populations. Muskrat harvest has declined by approximately 75% since 1986 in eastern North America, despite a recent resurgence in pelt prices. Recent harvest rates showed little correlation (r = 0.355-0.559) with current or time-lagged pelt prices, despite large correlations (r = 0.785-0.823) between pelt price and harvest from historic data (1948-1968). These results suggest that, at low harvest levels, there is only a weak correlation between harvest and pelt price. These results may be indicative of regional declines in Muskrat abundance, although future research is needed to substantiate this hypothesis.
25177123|Demographic information from geographically isolated conspecific populations is important for understanding how a species is locally adapted, and can thus inform conservation decisions. Clemmys guttata (Spotted Turtle) is declining throughout its range in eastern North America due to habitat loss and fragmentation and collection of specimens for the pet trade. The objectives of our study were to describe the demography of a previously unstudied island population of Spotted Turtles and to make comparisons to conspecific mainland populations. We conducted mark-recapture surveys for turtles on a small (23.2-ha) island in eastern Georgian Bay, ON, Canada. Over seven sampling trips, 40 different turtles were captured 72 times: 23 females, 6 males, 10 juveniles, and 1 hatchling. Males had significantly larger straight-line carapace lengths and contour carapace lengths than females, whereas females had greater carapace heights than males. Adult females on the island were significantly smaller than females on the mainland. Density was estimated to be 1.7 turtles/ha for the entire island, and 21.4 turtles/ha in one wetland where turtles aggregated in spring. The adult sex ratio was significantly skewed in favor of females (1 male: 3.83 females). Our study provides information on the population ecology of Spotted Turtles in isolation, which is important for the creation of management plans for populations being fragmented by human activities.
4499916|This study examines changes in the frequency/abundance of prey selection among five size classes of 183 Ambystoma jeffersonianum (Jefferson Salamanders) within a natural, unmanipulated environment. Significant differences were found in prey selection among size classes in vertebrate and macroinvertebrate (specifically coleopteran and dipteran) prey groups, but not microinvertebrates. Predator-size thresholds were noted as diet shifted from predominantly microinvertebrates to increasingly larger macroinvertebrates to the final dietary selection of other vertebrates. This study augments the catalogue of ingested Ambystoma prey and re-examines the nature of ontogenous dietary selection.
10.2307/3858623|Changes in the distribution of crayfishes in the Schoharie Creek drainage, eastern New York State, are assessed, based on historical records and surveys conducted in 1982-83 and 1996. The native crayfish assemblage in this region probably consisted of only three species: Cambarus bartonii, C. robustus, and Orconectes propinquus. In 1982-83, six crayfishes (C. bartonii, C. robustus, O. immunis, O. obscurus, O. propinquus, and O. rusticus) were collected in the drainage. In 1996, all the crayfishes except O. obscurus were found again, and an additional species (O. virilis) was captured at one site. Between the two survey periods, O. rusticus markedly expanded its range, while the range of O. propinquus decreased and the relative abundance of other species declined. The habitat use of each species is examined.
10.2307/3858600|We investigated the size and structure of a population of diamondback terrapins (Malaclemys terrapin) inhabiting Piermont Marsh on the lower Hudson River, New York. From 6 June through 24 August 1997, 39 trapping periods were completed using trammel nets set in and around the marsh complex. Only eight terrapins were captured -- six males and two females -- indicative of a small or broadly-dispersed population. Terrapins were trapped near a sandbar area outside of the marsh but never seen or trapped in two marsh creeks, suggesting the creeks were not used by terrapins during the time of the study. Instead, terrapins were observed basking and swimming around the rocky piers and breakwaters in the Hudson River. Recent development, soil subsidence, and Phragmites australis growth may have deteriorated traditional terrapin nesting sites in the region.
4130981|We compared breeding activity of Ambystoma maculatum (Spotted Salamander) and Rana sylvatica (Wood Frog) in artificial impoundments to patterns in natural wetlands over a three-year period in the Delaware Water Gap National Recreation Area. Rana sylvatica were 5.6 times more likely to use natural bodies of water for breeding than artificial impoundments, while A. maculatum were 2.7 times more likely to use natural bodies of water. Both species were approximately 9 times more likely to breed in fishless bodies of water than in waters with predatory fish. Ambystoma maculatum were 6 times more likely to breed in wetlands with more stable seasonal hydroperiods, while R. sylvatica were only 2 times more likely to do so. We conclude that the high likelihood of fish presence in impoundments was the primary explanation for why both species were less likely to use impoundments than natural wetlands, while the tendency of A. maculatum to avoid natural wetlands with shorter hydroperiods explained why differences in use between pond types was more pronounced for R. sylvatica.
10.2307/3858598|The tufted titmouse (Baeolophus bicolor) was a vagrant in Maine until the 1970s. The steady increase over the last 25 years in tufted titmice in Maine is shown using Christmas Bird Count data (1976-1996) and Breeding Bird Survey data (1966-1996). Foraging data are presented on a titmouse that wintered near Flagstaff Lake (45 14 N, 70 17 W), the northern-most overwintering record of the species in Maine.
25177139|We investigated the distribution and abundance of Alliaria petiolata, an invasive biennial, with respect to historical land use, and examined environmental conditions to look for correlations with distribution patterns. Sixty currently forested plots in Cuyahoga Valley National Park, OH were chosen based on 1959 land use: agricultural (open) versus forested. Plots were analyzed for Garlic Mustard distribution, abundance, invasion area, and incursion distance. Garlic Mustard distribution did not vary with historical land use, but did vary significantly with distance from rivers and with elevation. Polygon area:perimeter values were also correlated with invasion. These results differ from studies done with Garlic Mustard in New England where historical land use appeared to be a larger factor in distribution. These results suggest the importance of landscape corridors in biological invasions and can be used to identify areas with greater potential for invasive species in this region.
41429232|The inland algal flora of Acadia National Park was studied based on over 200 samples from 119 localities. A total of 160 algal genera were found, representing 12 algal phyla. Among these were 140 new generic records for the Park. The most frequently encountered taxa were desmids and diatoms, and the genera and species in these groups were acidophilous, reflecting the low pH of the ponds, lakes, and streams of the Park. Ponds and streams were the most heavily sampled habitats in the Park, and coincidentally had the highest diversity (103 and 91 genera, respectively). Based on other similar studies, we estimate that the Park likely contains as many as 1000 algal species within its boundaries, indicating that the diversity is exceptionally high for an area of this size.
3858306|We used local and landscape models to predict fish assemblages in the Great Swamp, NY, a region undergoing rapid development. Fish were surveyed across 17 sites. Fish-species richness, diversity, percent intolerant species, and IBI metrics for fish species richness, benthic insectivores, terete minnows, and dominant species were calculated. Local stream features were characterized and surrounding land cover/use was quantified at four different scales (reach, segment, network, and watershed). Regression analysis and multinomial cumulative logit models were used to predict how fish assemblages varied according to habitat characteristics. Within the local variables, pool variability predicted diversity and epifaunal substrate/available cover predicted percent intolerant species and IBI metrics for fsh species richness, benthic insectivores, and terete minnows. The scale of analysis influenced which landscape-level predictors measuring percent wetland, forest cover, or residential land use best explained diversity, percent intolerant species, and IBI metrics for benthic insectivores, terete minnows, and dominant species. Although no single model (local or landscape) best predicted assemblages, the land cover/use at the segment (100-m buffer for 1 km upstream) scale provides sufficient information about fish assemblages to support this scale as optimal for regional land-use planners. Our findings show that forest cover should be maintained to protect fish assemblages in the Great Swamp and development that alters stream-habitat heterogeneity should be curtailed.
4499898|To determine if the quality of winter diet is related to winter-habitat sexual segregation, Lagopus lagopus L. (Willow Ptarmigan) were collected in three wintering areas of Labrador between December and April 1998-2000 (n = 310). Crop contents were used to evaluate diet differences according to sex, age, and area. The most prominent item in ptarmigan crops was Salix spp. (willow; range 45-89%). The crops of adult females contained approximately 60% more willow, the most nutritious food in their diet, and 45% more calories than those of adult males. All birds collected from western Labrador contained more willow twigs and buds and more calories than those collected in central or eastern Labrador. The Gardarsson hypothesis suggests that males winter adjacent to breeding areas to improve competition for territories, and females choose areas with greater abundance and quality of food to enhance reproductive success. We could not reject this hypothesis since the wintering site with the most female-biased sex ratio was where diets had the greatest mass of willow and total calories.
41315955|After the complete destruction of a Sterna antillarum (Least Tern) nesting colony on Lovells Island in Boston Harbor in 2007, we set remote-sensing cameras over artificial tern nests in an effort to identify potential nest predators. In addition to Corvus brachyrhynchos (American Crows) and Rattus norvegicus (Brown Rats), Oryctolagus cuniculus (European Rabbits) were photographed burying eggs and destroying artificial nests. These observations indicate that introduced European Rabbits on islands may have a direct impact on nesting terns.
27744561|Maine and Massachusetts paid bounties on seals during the 19th and 20th centuries. To determine the number of seals killed for bounty, we examined historical records of bounty claims, and used geographic information systems and multiple linear regression to find predictors of places where large numbers of bounties were paid. We found records of 24,831 bounties paid in Maine (18911945) and 15,690 in Massachusetts (18881962). Considering possible fraud, missing data, and seals struck and lost, this suggests that 72,284 to 135,498 seals were killed in the bounty hunt, probably enough to account for regional declines in seal populations. Larger numbers of bounties were paid where there were more seals and a higher human population.
41315956|We describe a successful nest defense strategy of an adult Gavia immer (Common Loon) during an attempted prdation event by a Nevison vison (American Mink) at Umbagog National Wildlife Refuge, NH. It is suspected that mink occasionally depredate loon nests, but defense strategies have not been described previously.
40959752|The freshwater mussel (Unionidae: Bivalvia) communities of the French Creek watershed are nationally recognized for their importance to biodiversity. The goal of this research was to gather more information on the distribution and densities of these species throughout the river. This study utilized two-phase sampling with timed searches to characterize mussel species richness in a large number of sites and to calculate catch-per-unit-effort values. The results of the timed search were used to select a subset of sites for quantitative mussel surveys to estimate density and abundance. Starting in New York, the main stem of French Creek was divided into 5.6-km lengths, and one site was randomly chosen within each of those lengths, favoring habitat (large riffle/runs) for rare species and high species diversity. Snorkelers collected as many unionid individuals as possible, with a target search rate of 0.5 m min. Thirty-two main-stem sites were surveyed with timed searches. Mean species richness was 11.8 (SE = 0.94), and mean CPUE was 59.5 mussels per person-hour (SE = 9.32). Quantitative sampling was performed at ten sites using a double sampling design. Mean density estimates ranged from 0 to 27.98 m. Abundance estimates range from 0 to 69,848 live mussels per site. For the main stem, we calculated regression models to estimate densities and abundances at qualitatively sampled sites based on the CPUE at quantitatively sampled sites. Extrapolation yields approximately 22 million mussels in the 2.04 million m of large riffle-run habitat in the main stem of French Creek.
41495825|Serpentine outcrops in the Middle Urals, Russia, supported 113 species of lichens. These rocks had a more diverse lichen flora and lower specificity (only 9 species) than other rocks types of the region. Pyroxenite's lichen flora was the most similar to that of serpentine. Rocky outcrops along different rivers varied in species richness, the highest being at the southernmost site (River Iset; 81 species) and the lowest at the northernmost site (River Neiva; 57 species).
10.2307/3858521|Protected species issues are an integral part of New England fishery management. Significant interactions of marine mammals and sea turtles with commercial fishing gear have been documented for many years. Statutes and regulations governing commercial fishery/protected species interactions provide for conservation and recovery of protected marine species. Some species of marine mammals, sea turtles, and fish are listed under the Endangered Species Act of 1973, and all marine mammals are managed under the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972. Both these statues have provisions linking them to commercial fisheries and provide varied strategies for reaching conservation goals. Interactions of protected species with commercial fishing gear range from direct entanglement, capture, and disruption of normal behaviors, to adverse modification of critical habitats. For the foreseeable future of New England fisheries, it is likely that wherever protected species and fishing activity co-occur, interactions will continue. Management trends include increased stakeholder involvement, close coordination with fishery management, and emphasis on technological solutions to interaction problems.
41429418|Bats vary their activity with different features of habitat, resource availability, predation risk, and other factors. Agricultural fields may provide an abundance of insect prey, but are also risky habitats due to their exposure. How bats use mixed landscapes is important information for biologists, as increasing development affects the amount of suitable habitat and impacts bat populations in the region. Using acoustic recording, we monitored relative bat activity in open areas and edges of the woodland/farmland interface of agricultural fields in Kent County, DE. We examined bat activity among different sites, in openings versus edges, among crop types, relative to nearby forest fragment size and shape, and under different weather conditions. Bat activity was significantly higher along edges than in the open in the agricultural fields for passes/night, but we found no differences among crop types or sites and no interaction effects. We also found no effect of size or amount of edge of a fragment on bat activity. We found significant negative correlations between passes and temperature and wind speed, and significant positive correlations between passes and relative humidity and barometric pressure. Bats use agricultural areas for foraging, and the woodland interfaces along these fields are important for bat activity. This study provides data that may help engender conservation practices, such as retention of forested edges and maintenance of tree lines, and perhaps crop selection and pest control management, in the region's farming community.
41429233|Saxicolous lichens of a coastal barren were surveyed in Nova Scotia, Canada. Forty-three species were found, including Rhizocarpon suomiense, new North America, and five other species new to the province. The response of saxicolous lichens to the maritime influence was assessed along transects perpendicular to the shoreline, as well as on three faces of the boulders: facing towards the coast, upwards, and away from the coast. Boulder face did not significantly affect lichen species richness; howevercover significantly increased from front to top to back faces. Lichen species richness and cover increased significantly with increasing distance from the shoreline. The ecology of selected species with respect to the maritime gradient is discussed.
10.2307/3858447|We investigated habitat preference of two Silphidae species (Nicrophorus investigator Zetterstedt and N. defodiens Mannerheim) occurring on a seabird island located off the southeastern shore of Newfoundland, Canada. Pitfall traps were placed in the nesting burrows of two seabird species: Atlantic Puffin (Fratercula arctica) located in grassland habitat and Leach's Storm-Petrel (Oceanodroma leucorhoa) occurring in both forest and open meadow habitat. Nicrophorus investigator was primarily found in petrel burrows located in open meadow habitat, whereas N. defodiens occurred exclusively in petrel burrows located in forested habitat. Only a few specimens of N. investigator were collected from puffin burrows. These results show a spatial partitioning of resources between the two beetle species and suggest petrel burrows provide more abundant food sources than puffin burrows for burying beetles breeding on the island.
4130994|Two specimens of Sorex dispar (long-tailed shrew) were taken from the southern base of Stewart Mountain, NS on October 8th and 9th 2005. Stewart Mountain is located south of the Minas Basin, Bay of Fundy, and this population is clearly disjunct from other S. dispar populations, including those in Nova Scotia's Cobequid Mountains. This finding extends the range of S. dispar in Nova Scotia by 60 km southwest. Furthermore, because this new location documents the presence of S. dispar in a different mountain range than previous records, the discovery has significant implications for the conservation status and historical biogeography of this species in Nova Scotia.
10.2307/3858366|Northern (Glaucomys sabrinus) and southern (G. volans) flying squirrels occur in Maine, but there is uncertainty about range overlap in southcentral Maine where the southern flying squirrel reaches its geographic range limit. We surveyed flying squirrels on Mount Desert Island (MDI), located along the central Maine coast, to update the current status and distribution of these species. We captured only northern flying squirrels, and populations ( 2 individuals) were located in two conifer stands and one mixed conifer-hardwood stand. All three stands were located in relatively older forests, outside a large area burned in a 1947 fire. Tree diameters were similar between trap stations with and without captures, understory density was low overall, and there was a trend of higher seedling density at capture locations. Low understory density may allow squirrels more effective gliding movements between trees, which may enhance predator avoidance. Although the southern flying squirrel was reported from MDI numerous times during the 20th century, no voucher specimens exist, and species identification and localities have been poorly documented. Future surveys on MDI should consider collection of voucher specimens to validate subsequent survey efforts and effectively document changes in local biodiversity.
10.2307/3858700|We followed the annual use of a shallow coastal pond by molting Mute Swans to examine their potential impacts on waterfowl habitat. Effects of Mute Swan herbivory on submerged aquatic vegetation (SAV) and macroinvertebrates were measured by comparing control vs. exclosure plots in varying water depths from 1990 to 1994. Mute Swans fed in all water depths, but appeared to prefer feeding in shallow sites (< 0.5 m) where they were capable of reducing SAV biomass by up to 95%. The impact of Mute Swans on macroinvertebrates could not be demonstrated. Only three species of macroinvertebrates (Grammarus spp., Hydrobia spp., Limnephilus spp.) showed reduced densities on some grazed plots.
10.2307/3858613|Hellgrammite nymphs (Nigronia serricornis Say) were collected in streams of southern Maine, 1995-1996, to assess the rate of phoresy by midge larvae. The number, location, and identification of phoretic midge larvae (Diptera: Chironomidae) were recorded for each nymph. Nanocladius (Plecopteracoluthus) n. sp. was the only chironomid species identified from hellgrammite hosts. Phoretic midges occurred in three of four populations and were observed on approximately 55% of all individuals examined (n = 108). However, frequency of phoresy ranged from 0 to 86.4%, depending on the stream. Midge phoretics occurred at a mean rate of over 1.5 per host and the number of phoretics was significantly correlated with host head capsule width. The dorsum of the first abdominal segment was the most frequent attachment site for midges. Observed frequency of phoresy in these streams were similar to published rates for chironomid/hellgrammite associations. This is the first documentation of chironomid phoresy on hellgrammites in Maine.
40664875|We examined 612 wild Neovison vison (Mink) carcasses collected during 1998-2002 from New York State for presence of Dioctophyme renale (Giant Kidney Worm). Twenty-three Mink (15 males and 8 females) contained the parasite in the right kidney. The percentage of infected Mink (3.8%) was considerably lower than was found in Ontario (48%) and Minnesota (27%), but higher than in Manitoba (1%) and North Dakota (< 1%). We found a clustered distribution of Giant Kidney Worms in Mink; all infections were located in the northern and central areas of the state and were restricted to a few physiographic and hydrological regions. Left kidneys were enlarged in parasitized Mink, but other condition measures (body and omentum weights, body weightilength ratio, and hepatic metal concentrations) did not differ between infected and non-infected animals when adjusted for gender, age, and capture location. This assessment indicated that Giant Kidney Worms have a minimal impact on Mink health; however, it should be viewed with caution because animals severely affected by infection may have been less susceptible to trapping. Future research should focus on the impact of infections on long-term health and mortality of Mink and the ecological requirements of Giant Kidney Worms and hosts to understand why infections are clustered in certain areas.
4130987|We report two observations of breeding dispersal by migratory songbirds, Dendroica caerulescens (Black-throated Blue Warbler) and D. fusca (Blackburnian Warbler), from their initial territory locations following timber harvest. Forty-eight birds of each species were captured and marked as part of a long-term study on warbler survival in the Greater Fundy Ecosystem, NB. None of the birds banded in unharvested patches were re-encountered in other patches. Maximum movement distances for the displaced Blackburnian Warbler and Black-throated Blue Warbler were 1.3 km and 2.9 km, respectively. These are the longest breeding-dispersal distances reported for these species. Our paper provides the first direct evidence that birds may move once their breeding site has been altered due to timber harvesting. Potential conservation implications are discussed.
41495836|This first comprehensive assessment of the ant fauna of Nantucket Island, MA revealed that 43% of New England ant species and 70% of New England ant genera occur on an island occupying only 0.07% of New England's land area. Ants collected by four different research groups between 2000 and 2009 included 32,158 individual ants (2911 incidences) from 384 spatially and temporally distinct samples representing 14 different vegetation community types. The majority of the ant species were collected from anthropogenically derived and maintained sandplain grasslands, sandplain heathlands, and Scrub Oak shrublands. These three communities are state-ranked S1 community types; the lower state-ranked communities of beaches and sand dunes, bogs, salt marshes, and forest fragments had distinct ant assemblages with much lower species richness. The large number of samples described here, from a wide range of vegetation community types, expands the known list of Nantucket ant species more than three-fold and provides a baseline for future assessment of the effects of ongoing, long-term ecosystem management on Nantucket.
41684229|We studied the distribution and ecology of male and female Myotis lucifugus (Little Brown Bats) and M. septentrionalis (Northern Long-eared Bats) on Newfoundland, where conditions (e.g., resource availability, abiotic conditions) were expected to be less favorable than in areas where most studies of conspecifics have occurred. We found that both species were patchily distributed and that Northern Long-eared Bats were more widely distributed across the island than previously documented. We located and characterized 36 roost trees from 14 female (6 lactating and 8 non-lactating) Northern Long-eared bats and found that, relative to conspecific populations on mainland North America, female Northern Long-eared Bats on the northern peninsula of Newfoundland roosted in shorter trees with smaller diameters. We also found that roosts used by lactating Northern Long-eared females were in cavities of large-diameter trees that maintained more stable microclimates compared to roosts used by non-lactating females.
10.2307/3858274|Two exotic species of dreissenid mussels (Dreissena polymorpha and D. bugensis) began to colonize bottom substrates in Presque Isle Bay, Lake Erie in 1990. By 1991, all native unionid (Unionidae) shells were infested by dreissenids. In 1990 and 1991, about 500 individual unionids of 15 species were collected: in 1992, 246 individuals of 12 species were collected; in 1993, 64 individuals of 6 species; in 1994, three individuals of three species; and in 1995, no unionids were found. In general, infestation indices of unionids were relatively low in 1990 and 1991, increased in 1992, and decreased in 1993. Mortality of unionids associated with infestation in the bay occurred in a shorter period of time (ca. two to three years) than has been documented in other water bodies. Observations in an area of Presque Isle not included in the present study, indicate that a small remnant population of unionids exists in the presence of heavily-colonized substrates by dreissenid mussels. Since other shallow-water areas of Lake Erie support infestation-free unionids in the presence of dreissenid mussels, it is hoped that some unionids will survive in Presque Isle Bay of Lake Erie.
25177070|We report one instance of conspecific nest reuse by Hylocichla mustelina (Wood Thrush) within the same breeding season, two instances of conspecific nest reuse in subsequent breeding seasons, and two instances of Wood Thrushes reusing nests originally constructed by Pheucticus ludovicianus (Rose-breasted Grosbeaks) during a three-year study in Ontario. Rates of nest reuse were higher than previously reported for Wood Thrush, with conspecific nest reuse accounting for 8-12% of the observed nesting activity, and interspecific nest reuse accounting for 8-9%. Nest reuse occurred following periods of colder minimum temperatures or greater precipitation than in other years. We suggest that instances of nest reuse within and between breeding seasons may occur in response to time or energy constraints on females resulting from unusual weather conditions. Documenting instances of nest reuse behaviour contributes to our understanding of some of the constraints experienced during breeding and may shed light on factors affecting annual reproductive success.
3858337|Emerged Salvelinus fontinalis (brook trout) and landlocked Salmo salar (Atlantic salmon) fry of 2-4 cm total length (TL) are morphologically similar. Size at emergence, parr marks, maxillary bone length, and fin ray numbers are highly similar until fry of these species exceed 4 cm TL. Emerged brook trout and landlocked Atlantic salmon fry were examined for characteristics that would permit rapid and reliable field or laboratory identification. Relative pectoral fin length ratio (PECT/TL) provides the most robust measure separating the species in this study. Landlocked Atlantic salmon fry have a significantly larger PECT/TL than brook trout fry. Emergent fry with a PECT/TL ratio greater than 0.16 were classified as landlocked Atlantic salmon while fry with a PECT/TL ratio of less than or equal to 0.16 were classified as brook trout.
10.2307/3858551|Experimental field studies at two sites in Long Island Sound have demonstrated that the nonindigenous Asian shore crab, Hemigrapsus sanguineus deHaan 1853, is a highly mobile grapsid crab that shows limited fidelity to a particular shelter or feeding site. Recovery rates of tagged crabs differed significantly at the two sites, but no differences in site fidelity were measurable between males and females at either site. Between-site differences in percent crabs recovered may be due to differences in food and shelter availability at the two sites. There is some suggestion that familiarity with a shelter site may influence site fidelity by leading to reduced mobility. A conservative estimate (based on recovered crabs only) of the mean distance traveled in 24 hours (n = 38) was 7.43  1.54 m; among those crabs recovered a distance > 5 m from the release point (n = 15) the mean distance traveled was 16.87  2.23 m. The rapid, widespread dispersal characteristic of the Asian crab invasion along the east coast of the United States may be due in part to the high adult mobility and low site fidelity exhibited by H. sanguineus.
40959751|The warm water outflow at a power station in Northport, NY aggregates Morone saxatilis (Striped Bass) in winter, which creates unnatural angling opportunities. Substantially more Striped Bass were available to anglers in the winter of 1995-1996 than in the winter of 1996-1997. Although Striped Bass were observed within and around the heated effluent of the plume, tracking using ultrasonic transmitters indicated they were not "trapped" in the area by the colder water surrounding the discharge. However, there also was little evidence of a natural forage base. Tag returns from marked Striped Bass over subsequent years suggest that they displayed similar movement patterns to Striped Bass found in Long Island waters during other seasons. Differences in availability of Striped Bass among years may reflect seasonal changes in temperature, cohort abundance, and other factors.
41315965|Through an examination of historical records maintained by a local bird club, consisting of naturalist diaries, daily check-lists, and informal bird surveys, we found that 44 springtime migrant bird species show evidence of an increasingly early first arrival date (FAD) during a 123-year record (1885 to 2008) in Dutchess County, NY. Ninety-one percent of the species showed a significant advance in FAD over this period, with the mean advance being 11.6 days/century. Using truncations of the full data-set corresponding to available data for changes in observer effort and population trends, we found that adding these ancillary independent variables to a multiple linear regression contributed little to explain the change in FAD in recent years. The advance in FAD is potentially an index of global climate change in this region.
41315934|The Saco River estuary is a narrow estuary in southern Maine, for which the fauna has not been described in nearly 30 years. Beach seining, otter trawling, and beam trawling were conducted between April and October of 2007 and 2008 to assess seasonal variation in fish assemblage structure. Twenty-four species were observed over the two sampling seasons, and nearly all species were at lengths indicative of juvenile age. Clupea harengus (Atlantic Herring), Pseudopleuronectes americanus (Winter Flounder), Anguilla rostrata (American Eel), Microgadus tomcod (Atlantic Tomcod), Pomatomus saltatrix (Bluefish), and Osmerus mordax (Rainbow Smelt) are either commercially or recreationally valuable, while Acipenser oxyrynchus oxyrynchus (Atlantic Sturgeon), Alosa aestivalis (Blueback Herring), and Rainbow Smelt are federally listed species of concern. Substantial historical assemblage changes were observed, including both the loss of commercially important species and the addition of species of concern. Regular monitoring of estuarine habitats is necessary to identify changes in assemblages and to better understand potential drivers of ecosystem change.
40959920|The main-stem Allegheny River is nationally recognized for its freshwater mussel (Unionidae: Bivalvia) diversity; however, habitat disturbance and degradation may have triggered the decline and loss of mussel communities in the lower river, where lock and dam structures restrict the free flow of water and sand and gravel removal threaten limited habitat. We examined mussel diversity and abundance across 75 transects throughout navigational pools and recorded 21 live native mussel species, including federally endangered Pleurobema clava (Clubshell) and Epioblasma torulosa rangiana (Northern Riffleshell) and several species with state endangered or threatened status. Riverine species richness and counts were significantly higher in the most-upstream portions of the upper pools, indicating that areas with consistent flows and suitable substrate just downstream of the dams may provide refugia for riverine freshwater mussel species. Sand, gravel, cobble, boulder, and organic debris had significant positive effects on riverine and facultative counts, while clay, bedrock, and woody debris had significant negative effects. Silt and woody debris had significant negative effects on riverine species richness, and sand and gravel had significant positive effects. These data will help identify sensitive areas for future protection and provide baseline data for monitoring future trends. The protection of relatively shallow areas with suitable substrates not yet impacted by dredging operations will be important to sustain remaining freshwater mussel populations in these pools.
41684259|Although crows cast pellets, there is little quantitative information on pellets from Corvus brachyrhynchos (American Crow), and none from C. ossifragus (Fish Crow). During a study of crow roost dispersal in Lancaster, PA, we collected samples of pellets from several locations. By mass, pellets consisted mostly of grit and other fine inorganic material, various seeds (principally Toxicodendron radicans [Poison Ivy] and Celtis occidentalis [Common Hackberry]), and vegetation remnants. Six pellets contained small-mammal bones. Because the Lancaster winter crow population included many Fish Crows, the source of the pellets was not certain. To clarify this, we compared the size of the Lancaster crow pellets to those produced by captive Fish Crows, and we provide the first quantitative description of pellets for either species. Our size comparisons suggest that >90% of the pellets in our sample from Lancaster were produced by American Crows.
60225646|Cobscook Bay, a boreal, macrotidal estuary in the northeastern Gulf of Maine, is noted for its species richness. The Bay area is biogeographically complex due to present temperature regimes as well as historical, climatological, and physiographic changes since the last glaciation. Early investigators recognized the resulting zoological richness, and a significant portion of the collection and taxonomic description of North American marine fauna was centered in the northern Gulf of Maine. A compilation of the results of 19th- and 20th-century research leads to the conclusion that the Cobscook region contains the highest level of marine invertebrate biodiversity in eastern North America north of the tropics. In addition, Cobscook Bay is characterized by noteworthy biological attributes such as the intertidal occurrence of many normally subtidal species and the manifestation of giantism in several populations. These phenomena are summarized briefly as a prelude to a major ecosystem modeling effort.
41495824|Serpentine soils are extreme habitats known to be involved in processes of local adaptation and speciation of plants. Here I use a greenhouse reciprocaltransplant experiment to compile baseline data for describing patterns of serpentine local adaptation in Quercus ilex subsp. ballota (Holm Oak). I also tested the role of mycorrhizal fungi on the establishment and growth of seedlings on serpentine and non-serpentine soil. Non-serpentine seedlings grew more than serpentine seedlings in all treatments. Plants grew more on non-serpentine soil and mycorrhizal fungi positively influenced seedling growth. I did not find evidence of better seedling performance in their home environment, suggesting the absence of local adaptation. However, I document significant growth differences between serpentine and nonserpentine seedlings, which suggest physiological differences between seedlings from these two soil origins.
40664883|Animals facilitate macrophyte seed dispersal in various ways despite specializations of macrophytes for water dispersal. Previous diet analyses of freshwater aquatic turtles revealed that several North American turtle species consume a variety and abundance of seeds among other plant material and animal prey. We quantified the dietary habits of Chrysemys picta picta (Eastern Painted Turtle) in a Massachusetts lake to examine if these animals included hydrophyte seeds in their diet and evaluate their capacity as passive seed-dispersal agents. Fifty-four turtles were trapped and housed to collect feces. Examination of feces revealed a diverse diet with comparatively high frequencies of animal, plant, and algal matter. Eight hundred fifty-seven seeds of at least nine plant species were egested (among 87% of turtles), with all but five (99%) seeds visibly intact. Seeds of Nuphar (473) and Decodon (305) were most abundant in the feces. Life-history characteristics of both C. p. picta and Nuphar suggest an effective endozoochorous seed dispersal association.
27744541|Preserved specimens of the crayfish Cambarus bartonii, Orconectes limosus, and Orconectes virilis from 27 locations in New Brunswick, and O. limosus from Freshwater Lake, Cape Breton Highlands, National Park, Cape Breton Island, NS, Canada, were examined for branchiobdellidans. Three species of branchiobdellidansBdellodrilus illuminatus, Cambarincola fallax, and Xironogiton instabiliswere identified on C. bartonii. Only branchiobdellidan cocoons were recorded on O. limosus, and only X. instabilis was recovered from O. virilis in New Brunswick. The introduction of O. limosus and O. virilis into New Brunswick does not appear to have simultaneously introduced non-native branchiobdellidans. No branchiobdellidans were found on introduced O. limosus from Freshwater Lake, NS. This work provides the first records of branchiobdellidans occurring in the Maritime Provinces of Canada, and establishes the eastern limit for these ectosymbionts in North America. In addition, one specimen of C. bartonii was found to have a total of 39 B. illuminatus in the branchial chambers, the largest infestation of this species yet recorded.
3858297|Cattle production is a common land use, and the adverse effects of cattle grazing on stream habitat and macroinvertebrates has been well documented. The purpose of our study was to provide a list of taxa that can be expected to occur in small streams impacted by cattle in the southern Blue Ridge Mountains and to demonstrate how taxon-specific natural history information can be used to gain insight about benthic habitat condition. We identified 97 benthic macroinvertebrate taxa from five cattle-impacted streams that differed in cattle grazing intensity. Our findings suggest that some macroinvertebrate taxa can sustain low levels of cattle grazing and that sedimentation is a major stressor to the macroinvertebrate fauna.
10.2307/3858429|Paracyclops canadensis (Willey) (Copepoda: Cyclopoida) is not common in collections and is considered rare. We sampled purple pitcher plants, Sarracenia purpurea L. (Sarraceniaceae) from ten geographically separated sites to determine how common P. canadensis is. Ninety specimens of Paracyclops canadensis were recovered from 660 leaves of the purple pitcher plant, between March 11, 1996 and November 11, 1997. Specimens included immatures and male and female adults. Most copepods were alive when collected. This report documents that P. canadensis is more widespread and prevalent than previously thought. Its frequency in S. purpurea leaves suggests that it has a species-specific association with this pitcher plant. The material in this study represents the most widespread collection of P. canadensis in North America.
41315968|We summarize recently reported sightings of Megaptera novaeangliae (Humpback Whales) and Balaenoptera acuturostrata (Minke Whales) in the Hudson Bay region, in the eastern Canadian Arctic. Balaena mysticetus (Bowhead Whale) is the only baleen whale historically known from Hudson Bay, and during the commercial whaling era (1860-1915), no other large whale was reported to occur there. We note recent (ca. last 10 years) Humpback observations reported by local Inuit hunters in Hudson Bay and northern Foxe Basin. One Humpback was also observed by cetacean biologists in Ungava Bay during an aerial survey for Delphinapterus leucas (Beluga Whales). Minke Whales have previously been reported in southern Hudson Bay and James Bay, and recent discussions with Inuit hunters have indicated possible sightings in Foxe Basin and western Hudson Bay. They are commonly observed by Inuit in eastern Hudson Strait, where there have also been recent detections by biologists. Observations of these species in Hudson Bay and Foxe Basin may be related to reduced ice cover and increased open water, changes in prey species distributions, population recovery and growth following commercial whaling, or some combination of factors. More efficient reporting of observations is needed, and improved community-level monitoring would assist with documentation of temperate-region species in high-latitude areas.
4499937|Procambarus (Ortmannicus) acutus (White River crayfish) was added to West Virginia's decapod crustacean fauna on 26 February, 2004, and this finding was the first record of the genus Procambarus in West Virginia. Six P. (O.) acutus (4 form-I males, 2 females) were collected in traps from a large vernal pool system 1.2 km east of Point Pleasant, Mason County. Several additional specimens were collected from this site during the spring of 2004, with an additional 3 populations discovered in the spring of 2005. White River Crayfish were collected in ephemeral pools, marshes, and roadside ditches. White River Crayfish were found in ephemeral systems only, and appear to have shifted aspects of their typical ecology to suit these systems in West Virginia. White River Crayfish distribution in West Virginia appears to be limited to the pre-glacial Marietta River Valley, and results suggest that it is a native species in West Virginia.
27744576|We investigated nutrient limitation of periphyton and phytoplankton in Cape Cod, MA coastal plain freshwater ponds. We assayed periphyton growth response to nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) in situ, assessed phytoplankton growth in growth chambers, and measured ratios of dissolved N and P in surface waters to determine if nutrient ratios were accurate predictors of nutrient limitation. In ponds receiving low groundwater nutrient inputs, periphyton responded weakly to addition of N or P alone, but responded strongly to addition of N+P. In these ponds, increases in both N and P were also required to increase phytoplankton growth. In ponds receiving high groundwater nutrient inputs, increased N+P were also required to increase phytoplankton growth. We found no indication that high nutrient inputs shifted pond phytoplankton to P limitation. There was no consistent correlation between dissolved N:P and whether periphyton was limited by either N or P or co-limited by N and P. Strong and widespread co-limitation by N and P suggested that greater attention should be given to both N and P when assessing the threat of nutrient enrichment of fresh waters. Effects of increased periphyton and phytoplankton growth on the unique flora of coastal plain ponds are not known, but bear increased attention given large increases of N in groundwater in many locations, the sensitivity of pond algae to nutrient supply, and the status of coastal plain ponds as high conservation priorities.
3858460|This note presents a documented incident of Canada lynx (Lynx canadensis) predation on white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus). An adult male lynx killed a yearling male deer in poor condition (71.5% femur marrow fat) on 20 February 2003 in northern Maine. The chase from the point of attack to the deer carcass was 112 m. Snow depth was 47-78 cm and sinking depth of the deer was 12-38 cm, which is near the critical sinking depth and impedes deer mobility. This observation suggests that Canada lynx may opportunistically prey on deer.
41315945|There is great ecological interest in carrying out a new inventory of southern Qubec simuliids, including an exhaustive sampling in two lake outlet streams of the Mauricie region, because data from Qubec were last reported only prior to 1980. Frequent sampling is needed to determine how species distributions change in response to climatic and environmental changes. Twenty-two of the 65 Qubec species were collected in the present study. One new species for Qubec was collected (Prosimulium magnum complex), and new distribution areas were found for some species. Exhaustive sampling clearly showed time-and space-related distribution variations of the univoltine and polyvoltine species. Seasonal appearance of species was synchronized at the two sites studied, but generation number was smaller at Lac du Barrage than at Lac Souris. The species-colonizing process seems to be environmentally determined stream-width and substrate-type influenced, as Simulium annulus, S. jenningsi. S. pictipes, and S. innoxium, were found in high-current-velocity falls. Artificial site colonization by S. aureum in a peri-urban environment had not been observed among simuliids prior to this study, in contrast to many mosquito species.
40664847|Several species of ducks defecate when flushed from their nests, but it is unclear why. Possibly, this behavior reflects manipulation by parasites to facilitate transmission. We analyzed feces of 32 incubating Somateria mollissima (Common Eider) for evidence of parasite transmission stages. We found a total of only 11 parasite transmission stages (identified as digenean and nematode eggs) in feces of 3 different hens, suggesting that defecation around the nest has a low probability of leading to parasite transmission. Other hypotheses for defecation behavior in this and other duck species (repulsion of egg predators, weight loss to increase hen maneuverability to escape predators) appear insufficient to explain its persistence.
10.2307/3858478|As part of a larger study, we investigated the intensity and duration of association between 2 adult male coyotes (Canis latrans) in an agrarian landscape in west-central Indiana. Home-range size and overlap and the intensity of association varied with time. Home-range sizes averaged 7.9  1.1 (SE) and 11.8  0.9 km<sup>2</sup>, and spatial overlap was substantial. Activity patterns and habitat preferences were similar for the coyotes whether together or apart, and there was no evidence of temporal or spatial avoidance. The 2 males were together most frequently during the pup-rearing and dispersal seasons, suggesting provisioning of pups and vigilance at diurnal resting sites as possible mechanisms for the dyad formation.
60225647|Cobscook and Passamaquoddy Bays and their connecting passages lie at the entrance to the Bay of Fundy, on the eastern boundary between the United States and Canada where the mean tidal range is about 6 m. Vigorous tidal currents maintain cold temperatures and efficient exchange with offshore waters year-round. Over the last several decades, a net-pen salmon aquaculture industry has developed in both bays. Recent outbreaks of fish diseases have led to heightened concerns about tidal coupling between net-pen sites and potential pathways for disease transmission. This paper summarizes a Cobscook Bay circulation study by Brooks et al. (1999) and presents some new results to improve understanding of the tidal circulation and potential exchange pathways linking the bays. A dipole pair of back-eddies forms in the central part of Cobscook Bay on each flood and plays an important role in the dispersion and retention of particles. Direct and indirect observations support the existence of the eddy pair and some associated flow details. Model flushing times are a day or two in the Outer Bay where most aquaculture lease sites are located but a week or longer in the inner arms of the Bay. The inner part of South Bay appears to be a repository for particulate matter. Model experiments including both bays and their connecting passages suggest that most water entering Cobscook Bay comes from Head Harbor Passage adjacent to Campobello Island, illustrating the importance of well-coordinated international plans for ecosystem management.
10.2307/3858668|The effects of growth light environment on the seasonal acclimation of photosynthetic capacity as well as rates of photosynthesis in the field were investigated in the angiosperm Mitchella repens L. (partridgeberry) and the gymnosperm Tsuga canadensis (L.) Carr. (eastern hemlock). Irrespective of growth light environment, photosynthetic capacity decreased in winter in partridgeberry but exhibited no seasonal change in eastern hemlock. These acclimatory patterns contrast with previously published results that report strong effects of growth light intensity on seasonal acclimation in another understory angiosperm, Mahonia repens (Lindley) Don., and strong winter-time decreases in photosynthetic capacity in a number of gymnosperms. With the exception of eastern hemlock in the exposed site, actual rates of photosynthesis were similar on summer days and on mild days in winter, whereas rates of photosynthesis measured on extremely cold days were much lower. Thus, even within the winter season, daily fluctuations in temperature profoundly affect photosynthesis. The carotenoid pigments that make up the xanthophyll cycle acclimated to winter in a manner that is consistent with their role in the protective process of energy dissipation.
25177147|We document the spring 2007 die-off of 216 Tachycineta bicolor (Tree Swallow) in western New York due to a period of unseasonably warm temperatures followed immediately by a period of unseasonably cold temperatures. Dead swallows were collected from artificial nesting boxes, where they had roosted communally. A subsequent decline in nesting effort was detected during the following nesting season. Implications for future nest-box management are discussed.
10.2307/3858357|The range of brook silverside (Labidesthes sicculus) extends from Minnesota eastward to southern Quebec, and south through New York, Texas, and Florida. The species is found in the St. Lawrence and Richelieu Rivers in Quebec, and the Allegheny and St. Lawrence River drainages, Mohawk and Hudson Rivers in New York. We found brook silverside for the first time in four of the five basins of Lake Champlain, over a range of 150 km, in 1998. Several individuals were collected at each site, indicating that the species is established in the lake. The route of introduction of brook silverside is unclear; they could have entered the lake from the Mohawk River via the Champlain Canal at the south end or from the Richelieu River via the Chambly Canal at the north end. This finding extends the range of brook silverside by approximately 88 km, into Lake Champlain in western Vermont.
10.2307/3858707|The American burying beetle (Nicrophorus americanus), listed as endangered in 1989, is one of only about 30 species of insects protected under the Endangered Species Act of 1973. In the eastern United States, the site of the only remnant population of the species is Block Island, Rhode Island. The first reintroduction of the American burying beetle occurred on Penikese Island, Massachusetts from 1990-1993 using captive-raised and wild beetles translocated from Block Island. Annual monitoring at Penikese Island from 1991-1996 confirms that small numbers of beetles are reproducing on naturally occurring carrion and that the population is persisting three years after the last release.
40664843|This study presents prey records and nesting information for 13 species of spider wasps: Hemipepsis ustulata, Priocnessus nebulosus, and Priocnemis cornica (Tribe Pepsini); Auplopus architectus, A. caerulescens (Tribe Auplopodini); and Tachypompilus ferrugineus, T. unicolor, Anoplius (Pompilinus) marginatus complex, A. (P) splendens, A. (Anoplius) nigerrimus, A. (A.) virginiensis, Arachnospila arctus, and A. scelestus (Tribe Pompilini). Cumulative prey records for Priocnessus nebulosus, Tachypompilus ferrugineus, T. unicolor, and Arachnospila scelestus indicate limited prey selection. Cursorial hunting spiders were more susceptible to predation by the spider wasps than web-spinning spiders. Wasp nesting sites varied among natural and man-made microhabitats.
25177089|Peripherally distributed populations of animals often exhibit different life-history parameters compared to those from more central locations. We report on the ecology of Eurycea cirrigera (Southern Two-lined Salamander) from its western range limit in eastern Illinois. We searched two streams and an intervening ridge from April 2002 until December 2003 to monitor clutch size and seasonal abundance of life stages. Oviposition began in April, and larvae were detected by late May. Mean clutch size was smaller than estimates from other parts of the species' range and did not covary with snout-vent length of the attending female. Nest-attendance rates we detected tended to be lower than previous estimates. As in other parts of their range, clutches were often found under rocks with at least one other clutch. Longer rocks were 1.30 times more likely to have multiple nests deposited under them.
4499900| Contrary to previous literature concluding that body size of Canis latrans (coyotes) does not increase in North America with decreasing longitude, this study presents data from different regions and concludes that northeastern coyotes are the largest extant version of coyote. Male coyotes from northeastern North America (16.4  1.5 [SD] kg, range = 14.2-20.4) were heavier than females from the northeast (14.7  1.6 kg, range = 11.9-17.9) and were also heavier than male (10.6  1.0 kg, range = 8.8-12.0) and female coyotes (12.1  1.1 kg, range = 10.5-14.1) from outside of the northeast. Female coyotes from northeastern North America were heavier than all male and female western coyotes. Longitude was significantly correlated in both male (r = -0.786, P < 0.0001) and female (r = -0.769, P < 0.0001) body mass, whereas there was less of a correlation for latitude and body mass for males (r = 0.355, P = 0.043) and females (r = 0.364, P = 0.044). Sixty-two percent (P < 0.0001) and 59% (P < 0.0001) of variation in body mass of males and females, respectively, could be explained by longitude, while 13% (P = 0.043 for males; P = 0.044 for females) could be accounted for by latitude. 
3858465|A survey of larval midge remains from surficial sediments in 37 New England lakes was undertaken in order to relate midge distributions to environmental factors. The lakes are located along a transect from northern New Hampshire to southern Connecticut. The midges proved to be a very diverse group of insects in these freshwater habitats. A total of 65 chironomid taxa were recovered. Canonical correspondence analyses indicated that the environmental variables which best explain the distribution of chironomid taxa were mean July air temperature, percent sediment organic matter, pH, and lake depth. This knowledge about the relationship between midge distribution and mean July air temperature can be applied to midge assemblages preserved in older lacustrine sequences to improve our understanding of past environmental conditions in the region.
25177110|Faunal remains from the Cole Gravel Pit archaeological site in Livingston County, NY, have been identified as Glyptemys (Clemmys) muhlenbergii (Bog Turtle). This is believed to be only the second prehistoric Holocene record of this species. Two Pleistocene records of Bog Turtle have also been previously reported. Based on archaeological remains, the human occupation of the Cole Gravel Pit site dates to approximately 3900 years B.P. and is associated with the Late Archaic Period. Cole Gravel Pit is in the general area of western New York state considered to be within the historic distribution of Bog Turtle, but modern live specimens of this species have not been discovered within Livingston County.
3858296|The exotic shrub Lonicera tatarica (Tartarian honeysuckle) has aggressively invaded woodlands and forests in central and eastern North America; however, its impacts on native plant species are not well understood. We used a greenhouse seedling experiment to examine the effects of L. tatarica on Quercus alba (white oak), the presettlement dominant tree of many of these forests. Growth-related parameters of Q. alba seedlings (height and basal diameter increases, biomass) did not differ between treatments when grown in monoculture or with L. tatarica competitors. In addition, when paired with native Cornus (dogwood) species, Q. alba displayed similar growth as when paired with L. tatarica. Quercus alba also did not respond differently to native and L. tatarica competitors across a range of densities, although greater competitor diversity resulted in somewhat lower height growth than other treatments. Due to the similarity in Q. alba growth across native and exotic shrub combinations, we argue that seedling-to-seedling competition with Q. alba is not a significant impact of L. tatarica invasion.
43288159|Effects of white-nose syndrome (WNS) have mainly been assessed in bats at hibernacula, but this method may not be appropriate for species with poorly understood overwintering habits. We assessed effects of WNS on summer captures of Myotis leibii (Eastern Small-footed Bat), M. lucifugus (Little Brown Bat), M. septentrionalis (Northern Long-eared Bat), and Eptesicus fuscus (Big Brown Bat) in New Hampshire from 2005-2011. Declines in rates and probability of capture varied among species but were greatest in the Myotis. Trends generally agreed with previous studies, except that declines in captures of Eastern Small-footed Bats were disproportionately higher than expected from winter estimates. Monitoring of Eastern Small-footed Bats during the non-hibernation period likely will help to clarify the effects of WNS on this uncommon species.
40959755|Solitary nest-provisioning wasps and bees in North America include species that naturally construct nests within existing cavities, such as hollow plant stems or tunnels left by wood-boring insects. The materials used to construct brood cells within nest cavities and the types of food provisions provided to offspring vary considerably among species. Over five summers (2001-2002, 2005-2007), we used trap nests to survey the cavity-nesting wasp and bee assemblage within the Montezuma Wetlands Complex in central New York State. Over 350 trap nests were occupied by 6 species of apoid wasps (Sphecidae, Crabronidae; 34% of nests), 7 vespid wasps (Vespidae: Eumeninae; 39%), 2 spider wasps (Pompilidae; 3%), and 12 bees (Megachilidae, Colletidae; 26%), as well as brood parasites and parasitoids of the nest provisioners. The most common nest-provisioning wasp was Trypoxylon lactitarse, followed by Ancistrocerus antilope, Isodontia mexicana, Symmorphus canadensis, Symmorphus cristatus, and Euodynerus foraminatus. The only two bee species with comparable incidences were Hylaeus annulatus and Heriades carinatus. Natural enemies emerging from nests included at least 17 species from 10 families, the most common of which were brood-parasitic cuckoo wasps (7 species of Chrysididae; 39 nests) and flies (Sarcophagidae; 11 nests). We also report brood sex ratios of the seven most abundant species, finding them to be either male-biased (A. antilope, T. lactitarse), female-biased (E. foraminatus), or not significantly different from unity. We compare our survey results to others done in north-central and eastern North America.
40959756|"Pimple" dunes are small, rounded coastal dunes that form along major dune ridges of the barrier islands along the Eastern Shore of Virginia. Although most pimple dunes are small structures ranging between 10 and 20 m in diameter, they have distinct plant assemblages that replicate the upland ecotones of their barrier islands. We examined the relationship between microenvironment, edaphic factors, and plant assemblage structure on pimple dunes. Water availability was an obvious major ecological driver, but we also tested other environmental factors that may correlate with plant assemblage structure. We found distinct assemblage types that segregated themselves by habitat type: marsh, shrub thicket, and dry summit. Freshwater availability was important in delineating vegetation differences, both among transects and among species. However, soil nutrients, such as ammonium, potassium, magnesium, and boron, were also spatially correlated with plant assemblage structure. We hypothesize that interactions between water and other environmental factors (e.g., the accumulation of nutrients in the marsh after they are leached from the dune summits) are important determinants of plant species distribution and abundance, and suggest that more attention be given to micronutrients in future phytosociological studies of barrier islands.
27744562|We determined how environmental variability affected distributions of seasonally recruiting fishes (i.e., transient species) in coastal lagoons of Maryland from MayOctober during 1996, 1997, and 1999. A total of 241 monthly sampling events were conducted in the coastal lagoons at 40 sampling stations. Fluctuations in salinity resulting from variation in stream discharge were negatively correlated with intra-annual stability of fish assemblages. Transient, or non-resident species (e.g., recruiting species), were more frequent in habitats where salinity was less variable. When stream discharge lessened during dry years, transient species were more common throughout the coastal lagoons. Thus, environmental variability influenced distributions of young-of-year fishes in coastal estuaries.
10.2307/3858564|The species composition and richness of the summer riparian vegetation of four small streams in the nonglaciated Allegheny Plateau of northwestern Pennsylvania (Forest, Warren and McKean Counties) were examined. The arboreal stratum (stems  2.5 cm dbh) of the four streams consisted of twenty species with Fagus grandifolia, Betula alleghaniensis, and Tsuga canadensis dominant (mean number of arboreal species across sites = 9.8  0.9 SE). Ninety-nine species were recorded from the ground-layer stratum (all vascular plants  2 m tall) of the four streams with forbs as the dominant growth form. Four species, Dryopteris intermedia, Maianthemum canadense, Pilea pumila, and Viola blanda, were common to the ground-layer vegetation associated with all streams. Species of upland affinity were more prevalent in the riparian vegetation across streams than werewetland species. Several of the plant species recorded are indicators of rich and/or subacid to circumneutral soils, an edaphic medium of limited occurrence in the region. Mean ground-layer species richness and cover differed significantly among streams and ranged from 3.7 to 10.5 species/m<sup>2</sup> (mean number of species/m<sup>2</sup> across sites = 7.9  1.5 SE) and 8.3 to 43.0% (mean percent cover across sites = 30.4  7.7 SE), respectively. Similarity in ground-layer species composition among streams ranged from 33.3 to 54.1% (mean similarity across sites = 38.9  3.7% SE). Although compositionally distinct, the small stream riparian flora documented by this study compares favorably in richness to other riparian habitats in northwestern Pennsylvania.
25177073|During September 2004 and June 2005, the Virginia Institute of Marine Science (VIMS) Juvenile Fish and Blue Crab Trawl Survey collected specimens of three warmwater fish species uncommon to Chesapeake Bay. Captures of Trachinocephalus myops (Snakefish), Citharichthys macrops (Spotted Whiff), and Mullus auratus (Red Goatfish) are the first substantiated records for these species from Chesapeake Bay. These captures also represent extensions in the documented geographic ranges of Snakefish and Spotted Whiff. Occurrences of multiple species heretofore rarely encountered in Chesapeake Bay warrant further attention in view of concerns regarding climate change and its effect on local marine faunas.
10.2307/3858568|Leucistic Plethodon cinereus, in which the individual lacks pigment except for normally-colored eyes, are apparently rare. This paper describes a third leucistic individual of this widespread species from Maryland.
3858327| Declines of Trillium wildflower populations have been attributed to white-tailed deer browsing without exploring the role of soil fertility. To explore relationships among Trillium species, soil fertility, and deer, samples were collected for analysis from thirty-seven randomly selected forested sites in Pennsylvania and West Virginia (in spring 2003) containing one of the following Trillium species: T. erectum, T. grandiflorum, or T. undulatum. Data were collected from 1-m radius plots centered on the first Trillium shoot observed at each site. Soil chemistry, foliar chemistry, and shoot height data were collected from the plots. Deer pellet groups were counted along four, 2  100-m transects in the four cardinal directions from the plot center. Pearson correlation and principal component analysis were used to examine relationships between soil chemistry and deer pellet groups, and shoot density and heights of Trillium. Trillium erectum and T. grandiflorum were found on sites rich in calcium and their foliage refected this. Trillium undulatum was found on sites with much lower calcium supplies. Strong correlations between numbers of pellet groups and Trillium heights were only obtained for T. undulatum. Results suggested that deer presence may not be the only factor adversely affecting Trillium populations and that soil calcium status also may play a role. This information should assist current discussions about the use of Trillium as indicators of deer numbers. 
3858543|Cheilanthes lanosa (Michx.) D. C. Eaton is a xerophytic fern that grows on dry, exposed rocky outcrops. Because several stages in the C. lanosa life cycle are vulnerable to desiccation, the physiological basis for the fern's survival in arid habitats is unclear. We hypothesized that C. lanosa survives its arid environment in part with the help of mycorrhizal associations, which enhance water and nutrient uptake in host plants. Although fungal symbioses rarely occur in members of the Polypodiaceae, most plants do engage in mycorrhizal associations. In this study, light microscopy was used to document the presence of vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizae in C. lanosa sporophytes.
43287132|While conducting an on-going project investigating the effects of prescribed fire on reptile communities, 31 Terrapene carolina carolina (Eastern Box Turtle) were captured in burned and unburned study sites; some with extensive injuries that were likely caused by a recent prescribed burn. In order to determine if the disturbance had any negative effects on the turtles, we recorded morphometrics, mass, sex, and injuries for each one captured. Twenty percent of box turtles in the burned area exhibited injuries caused by the fire. Turtles in burned sites were similar in length but weighed significantly less (df = 1, F= 5.255, P = 0.0329) and had a poorer body-condition index than turtles in unburned sites. Additionally, one injured box turtle was encountered 32 times in a burned site. On average, this individual moved 22.5 m/day within a 3.77 ha home range. Over the course of 1 year, the turtle grew 1.3 mm and gained 27 g. The injuries to the carapace of this individual never fully healed during that year, and the scutes did not grow back; however, regeneration of the carapace may require a longer period of time. These scant data suggest that Eastern Box Turtles may not respond favorably to prescribed fire, and indicate that additional studies are needed to increase knowledge of the effects of prescribed fire on this species.
10.2307/3858520|In New England waters, many fish stocks are in precipitous decline while others are already at historically low levels. Bycatch and discard of non-target species is a major contributor to fishing mortality and is a key factor in the observed decline of stocks. In recent years, there have been many initiatives, both globally and locally, to improve selectivity of fishing nets, or more correctly, to reduce the capture and discard of non-target fish. However, it has also become clear that the natural behavior patterns of many species prevent effective selection. For a trawl gear to be truly selective, every fish that enters the net should be tested to insure that those that are small enough to pass through the meshes escape and those that are above the minimum landing size are retained. In general there are two main techniques to aid fish escapement. The first technique is based on making use of species-specific behavior patterns, whereas the second technique involves a process of mechanical sorting on the basis of size. This paper outlines the most widely used bycatch reduction techniques and, where applicable, provides examples within each category where such techniques have been shown to reduce bycatch and discard. The role of bycatch reduction in conservation of fish stocks is discussed.
10.2307/3858275|Due to a lack of information on residues of chlorinated compounds in fish from Connecticut lakes and ponds, we conducted a preliminary assessment of total chlordane, total DDT, and total PCBs in fish tissue. Predators (largemouth bass and smallmouth bass) and bottom feeders (common carp, brown bullhead, yellow bullhead, and white sucker) were collected from 16 Connecticut lakes in 1998. Fish tissue samples consisted of a composite of one skin-on fillet from up to three individual fish representing one species. Fish were analyzed for chlorinated compounds by a gas chromatography/electron capture detector. Fish from seven lakes had detectable levels of chlordane. One lake had fish with chlordane residue levels exceeding the Food and Drug Administration action level of 300 micrograms per kilogram (g/kg) wet weight. At all 16 sites, p,p'-DDE was detected in fish tissue. At seven sites, PCBs, primarily Aroclor-1254, were detected in fish tissue; the highest concentration reported was 2344 g/kg wet weight.
41315971|Recently, Patterson and Patterson (2010) documented a single Glaucomys sabrinus (Northern Flying Squirrel) having two litters in a single year in southern Ontario, Canada. We confirm this record and provide evidence for two new observations; 1) Northern Flying Squirrels will attempt a second litter after raising a successful first litter; and 2) Northern Flying Squirrels can be lactating and pregnant at the same time. We also present data on the frequency of polyestry in a single year. In 2008, 3 of 10 radio-collared flying squirrels in southern New Brunswick, Canada attempted two litters. The first litter was born in early June, and the second litter in mid-August. Our data suggest that polyestry in Northern Flying Squirrels may be relatively common in some years.
4130724|In 1869, the hundred-year anniversary of Alexander von Humboldt's birth, there were a number of memorial events within German-speaking Europe. In affirming Humboldt's importance, late 19th century liberal natural scientists also promoted their own intellectual pursuits, arguing for the central importance of natural science within both contemporary culture and human history. Humboldt's memorializers used his image to argue for an intimate connection between scientific, moral, and political progress. Within this broad consensus, Humboldt's meaning could be defined in a number of ways, and memorial speakers' own scientific and political commitments shaped their picture of the famous scientist. At the same time that scientists were asserting Humboldt's overwhelming importance for the history of Western culture, however, changes within natural science itself were making it harder to articulate arguments for his universal intellectual significance.
4130723|Since the late 19th century, the image of Alexander von Humboldt has been fractured into that of the patient and assiduous fact-gatherer, devoted to measurement and quantification, and that of the sensitive soul, awake to the unity and beauty of the landscape. Concern with emotional and aesthetic responses to the natural world was, however, central to Humboldt's precise and quantitative approach to natural history. The unity of his project may be better understood by exploring his youthful immersion in Enlightenment debates over the nature of the human mind and the possibility of rational knowledge of nature -- debates which took on a special urgency during the epoch of the French Revolution. Specifically, the reforms of natural history which Humboldt proposed in the 1790s and practiced during his expedition to the Americas (1799-1804) drew on the concepts and techniques of "analysis" developed by the French Encyclopedists and refracted through German politics and philosophy. Humboldt's approach to natural history thus exemplifies the essential continuity between Enlightenment doctrines of sensation and sensibility and Romantic assertions of the unity of nature and the unique role of the naturalist in revealing that unity.
41315954|We report the extirpation of Notropis bifrenatus (Bridle Shiner) from Maryland. This once widespread species has not been observed in this state since 1984 despite recent and extensive collection efforts in areas of historical occurrence. Based on these results, the status of the Bridle Shiner in Maryland was changed from endangered to endangered/extirpated in 2010.
4131008| Population declines of migratory songbirds have been attributed to either breeding-ground factors based on forest fragmentation leading to increased rates of nest predation and nest parasitism or wintering-ground factors based on tropical habitat loss and degradation. We analyzed patterns of habitat use by Nearctic-Neotropical migrants, temperate migrants, and permanent residents in isolated deciduous-forest patches (0.25-3400 ha) in Pennsylvania during 1994-95 to determine distribution patterns and to identify the primary cause of these declines. Nearctic-Neotropical migrants were found primarily in larger forest patches ( 40 ha) compared to small patches ( 2 ha). In contrast, with few exceptions, temperate migrants and permanent residents were found equally in small and larger forest patches. Based on predictions by Rappole and McDonald (1994) to determine the cause of population declines, our results indicate that wintering-ground factors most likely are responsible. However, we suggest that such results should be viewed with caution. Specifically, we recommend that patterns of habitat use during migration should be studied more thoroughly to elucidate the potential impacts of stopover-habitat modification on population declines of migratory birds. 
43287124|This paper presents the results of a long-term study to detect the presence of Puma concolor (Cougar) in eastern Canada. We installed 38 scratching posts to attract wild Cougars and collect hair samples in several national and provincial parks in Qubec, New Brunswick, and Nova Scotia. A set of semi-nested primers was used to discriminate Cougar samples from other mammalian species based on variation in thelS rRNA gene of the mitochondrial DNA. Our analyses performed on 476 hair samples revealed 19 positive identifications of Cougars in Qubec and New Brunswick. Sequencing further showed that some specimens were from South America, whereas others had a North American origin. We discuss the implications of these results for the conservation of Cougars in eastern Canada.
3858307|We utilized microcosms that mimicked the rocky intertidal community to examine the predatory impacts of two introduced crab species, Carcinus maenas and Hemigrapsus sanguineus, on naturally occurring assemblages of organisms on rocks in the laboratory and in the field. The two crab species had similar consumption patterns causing significant declines in Semibalanus balanoides (barnacles), juvenile Mytilus edulis (mussels), Spirorbis sp. (polychaetes), and ephemeral algae. In both two-day and fourteen-day field experiments, the decline in S. balanoides in the H. sanguineus treatments was significantly greater than in the C. maenas treatments suggesting that H. sanguineus may have a higher per capita impact on barnacles than C. maenas. As H. sanguineus increases in abundance in northern New England, it may have greater impacts on prey species than C. maenas did when it became established.
10.2307/3858677|Bats that inhabit dead or dying trees may interact with a wide variety of other animals that utilize this same habitat, including potential predators. Herein, we report two interactions between Indiana myotis (Myotis sodalis) and woodpeckers (Red-bellied Woodpeckers, Melanerpes carolinus; and Northern Flickers, Colaptes auratus). We also report attempts by common raccoons (Procyon lotor) to prey upon both Indiana myotis and evening bats (Nycticeius humeralis). These represent the first reported interactions between either woodpeckers or raccoons and tree-roosting bats of either species. If predators such as raccoons are superabundant in small forest fragments, then increased predation from these animals could be an important source of mortality for bats roosting within these habitats.
27744557|Necropsies of Gavia immer (Common Loon) recovered lead and non-lead foreign objects from gastrointestinal tracts. Carcasses collected between 1987 and 2000 reveal that a great deal of loon mortality on lakes in New England is attributable to ingestion of lead objects. In this study, 522 carcasses were examined to inspect the types, sizes, and masses of 222 objects responsible for lead toxicosis. Most ingested lead objects were less than 2.5 cm long and weighed less than 25 g. Information on objects ingested by loons may help in development of non-toxic alternatives.
41495823|The geoecology of a serpentinite-dominated site in the Czech Republic was investigated by rock, soil, water, and plant analyses. The 22-ha Pluhv Bor watershed is almost entirely forested by a nearly 110-year old plantation of Picea abies (Norway Spruce) mixed with native Pinus sylvestris (Scots Pine) in the highest elevations. It is mainly underlain by serpentinite, with occassional tremolite and actinolite schists and amphibolite outcrops. Tremolite schists and especially serpentinites are characterized by extremely high concentrations of Mg, Ni, and Cr and by negligible concentrations of K, creating an unusual environment for plants. The spruce growth rate is very slow, apparently as a result of K deficiency, Mg oversupply, and Ni toxicity. Foliar Ca is in the upper part of the optimum range because schists and amphibolites are important sources of Ca to the soil exchangeable pool and vegetation. Mineral weathering and atmospheric deposition generate near-neutral magnesiumbicarbonate-sulfate streamwater with a high concentration of Ni.
43287136|In North America, Castor canadensis (Beaver) impoundments of low-order streams greatly modify ecological processes, influence stream biota, and impact fish movement. We evaluated the short-term effects of removing a beaver dam from an Appalachian headwater stream on a Salvelinus fontinalis (Brook Trout) population. Prior to dam removal, we found only one marked trout that had navigated the dam moving upstream and no marked trout from above the dam moving downstream. Immediately following dam removal, trout abundance above and below the dam increased 67.1% and 46.0%, respectively. During later samples, however, declines in both trout abundance and relative weight suggest the initial large increases in our study sections after dam removal may have led to increased competition among trout, causing large numbers to move several hundred meters further upstream, beyond our study site, in order to find acceptable habitat. These results demonstrate that the presence and subsequent removal of a beaver pond on a Brook Trout stream can be considered both beneficial and harmful; thus, site-specific evaluation is necessary to determine best whether to retain or remove ponds.
4499907|Histrionicus histrionicus (Harlequin Ducks) that winter along the east coast of North America are listed as a population of special concern in Canada, and they use several coastal wintering sites in southern New England that are subject to varying degrees of urbanization. We studied patterns of habitat use by Harlequin Ducks at 12 known wintering sites in southern New England. An average of
25177099|Benthic algal assemblages were surveyed in five Pennsylvania streams in order to examine trends in biomass and taxonomic groups along an acidification gradient. Acidification severity of each stream was estimated from total dissolved aluminum
25177138|We discovered that spiders use seed heads of Sarracenia purpurea (Northern Pitcher Plant) for moulting, nesting, and rearing of young. These associations represent only a few of the diverse interactions between spiders and pitcher plants. During July-August 2001 at Acadia National Park, seed heads (n = 301) of S. purpurea from four bog-heaths yielded spiders (n = 685) of four families (Theridiidae, Dictynidae, Clubionidae, Salticidae), 10 genera, and at least 11 species. Two additional spider families (Gnaphosidae, Thomisidae) were represented by cast exuviae. Jumping spiders (Salticidae) were the chief occupants, comprising 80.0% of species and 99.1% of individuals. The salticid Tutelina similis was the most common inhabitant, accounting for 63.8% of the overall spider fauna in these microhabitats. Spider foraging-guild presence favored hunters (99.7%) over web spinners; juveniles outnumbered adults almost 15 to 1, and females outnumbered males 43 to 1. Frequencies of spider webbing and retreats in seed heads were greater than expected (G-test,  = 0.05); however, spider occupancy was less than expected. Seed heads with multiple-spider occupants were more frequent than those with single-spider occupants; conspecific associations were more frequent than heterospecific associations. No evidence was found that spiders preferred either closed or open seed heads. Other associated arthropods included parasitic mites, spider-egg parasitoids, and insects. The identified taxa represent the first records of spiders inhabiting seed heads of S. purpurea in Maine.
41495839|Woody plaint expansion is a global phenomenon and has been demonstrated to have impacts on the global carbon (C) cycle as a substantial C sink. Land-cover change in western New York has followed a pattern common to the northeastern US as presettlement forests were extensively cleared for agriculture use. In the past several decades, a substantial portion of this agricultural land has been left to natural succession. This study investigates soil C dynamics across a chronosequence of habitats representing this landcover change including old fields, shrublands, and early successional forests. Despite substantial shifts in plant community composition and structure, neither soil respiration nor soil organic matter changed significantly with habitat type. While consequences of this land-cover change in western New York remain inconclusive, the scale of this change could result in substantial shifts in regional ecosystem C dynamics.
10.2307/3858356|Four species of non-native coccinellids in North America have expanded their ranges to include Cape Breton Island, Nova Scotia in the past 20 years. Lady beetles were sampled in 1998 at five sites in industrial Cape Breton to determine the status of these four non-native species. Coccinella septempunctata L. has been established for about 15 years and was the most common coccinellid in Cape Breton during the past 10 years. It continues to be one of the most common and widespread species. The other three are very recent, mid-1990s, introductions to this area. Harmonia axyridis (Pallas) has apparently not become established. Two others, Propylea quatuordecimpunctata (L.) and Hippodamia (Adonia) variegata (Goeze), are now common and widespread. The latter is particularly abundant, especially in the late summer. Native species were rarely encountered; the most frequent, Coccinella trifasciata, made up less than 4% of all individuals. During the past ten years, Adalia bipunctata L. has been the most abundant native species. However, only two individuals were observed during 40 hours of sampling in 1998, possibly indicating a major decline.
25177107|We conducted a formal survey of small-mammal ectoparasite diversity in Iowa. We examined 166 small mammals and documented 54 species of parasitic arthropods present on 12 species of mammals. Ectoparasite species richness was greatest for Blarina brevicauda (northern short-tailed shrew), Microtus ochrogaster (prairie vole), Peromyscus maniculatus (deer mouse), and Peromyscus leucopus (white-footed mouse). Immature (larvae and nymphs) Dermacentor variabilis (American dog tick) were collected from P. leucopus, M. ochrogaster, Reithrodontomys megalotis (western harvest mouse), and Zapus hudsonius (meadow jumping mouse). The fleas Epitedia wenmanni and Orchopeas leucopus, potential vectors of sylvatic plague bacilli, were found on Mus musculus (house mouse), white-footed mouse, and deer mouse. We document 21 new ectoparasite host records for North America and 115 new host locality records for ectoparasites in Iowa.
40959754|Northern temperate forests play an important role in the global carbon (C) cycle. Individual stands can differ in content and storage, based on characteristics such as vegetation type, site history, and soil properties. These site differences may cause stands to vary in their response to extreme weather events such as droughts. We examined ecosystem pools, soil respiration, and litterfall in four hardwood stands with widely varying soil drainage in Rhode Island. Total ecosystem increased as soils became more poorly drained, ranging from 181 Mg C ha in the excessively drained Entisol to 547 Mg C ha in the very poorly drained Histosol. The proportion of ecosystem contained in the soil was much higher in the poorly drained soils, and ranged from 57% in the excessively drained Entisol to 91% in the poorly drained Histosol. While total ecosystem stocks varied by a factor of three, rates of litterfall and soil respiration were similar among sites. Soil carbon content was highest in the very poorly drained site, and respiration was lowest from this site. During the summer drought of 1999, all soils except the Histosol had lower respiration rates than predicted from temperature alone. Rain events that ended the drought produced a pulse of soil respiration in all mineral soils, stimulating soil flux more than expected from temperature alone. The effect of drought and rewetting on soil respiration varied by site, suggesting that the response to climate variability will depend upon soil drainage to some extent. Soil respiration rates were most variable in dry conditions, and current and antecedent soil moisture conditions played an important role during those times. In general, soil respiration was much more variable over time than across sites, even among these sites with very different total soil content, indicating that climatemainly temperatureis the main determinant of soil CO release even across soils with widely varying drainage.
27744580|Many authors have recently used changes in arrival dates of migratory breeding birds as a measure of environmental change due to global warming. In this paper, I present a comparative analysis of the intra-annual variability in first arrival dates for 107 species of migratory breeding birds in Maine. Data come from volunteer observers in the southern two-thirds of the state from 1994 through 2005. Using the Julian date for each first arrival, standard deviations were tabulated for each species in each year. The results indicate that some species, specifically leaf-gleaning insectivores and aerial insectivores, have relatively low variance of first arrival dates while other species show more protracted migrations and hence greater variability around the mean arrival date. Post hoc considerations of the patterns of variability suggest that diet may be an important determinant of variance in arrival date. The data indicate that researchers should concentrate on species with lower variances of arrival date to increase the statistical power for testing changes in arrival dates as global warming proceeds.
10.2307/3858427|We compared the mean spring arrival dates of 80 species of Maine migratory breeding birds between the interval 1899-1911 and the interval 1994-1997. Arrival dates for the earlier interval were extracted from records in the Journal of the Maine Ornithological Society. Dates for the latter interval were collected by volunteers across the state of Maine. Our prediction of a trend toward earlier arrival as a function of global warming was rejected. Of the 29 species that showed significant changes in arrival date, 20 (69.0%) arrived earlier in 1899-1911 than in 1994-1997. Spring arrival dates do not at present provide any signal of the effects of global warming in the state of Maine.
4499913|We surveyed little-known ray-finned fish assemblages from Maryland's coastal bays in order to establish species-habitat relationships for common species. From 1996-1999, 25 sites were sampled monthly with otter trawls in the coastal bays of Maryland. Anchoa mitchilli (bay anchovy) constituted nearly 50% of the catch for each year, and species composition was largely similar across years, with some differences likely related to variation in recruitment. For example, Clupea harengus (Atlantic herring) was particularly abundant during 1996 and 1999 following their spawning season. We used canonical correspondence analysis to determine how assemblages were related to temperature, dissolved oxygen (DO), salinity, and land-use variables during summer (June-September) and throughout the rest of the year. A gradient correlated with temperature and DO significantly structured assemblages throughout most of the year; during summer, the proportion of wetland habitat was important. We demonstrate that environmental gradients important for structuring fish assemblages differ between summer and non-summer months and there is a general shift in habitat use during summer from the lower estuary to other areas of the coastal bays. Our data also provide support for earlier observations that temperature was the major factor influencing changes in fish assemblage structure in the coastal bays. Our results point to better characterization of fish habitats in order to effectively manage coastal ecosystems of Maryland.
40664882|The vernal pool fairy shrimp Eubranchipus vernalis (Eastern Fairy Shrimp) is an obligate freshwater invertebrate that is an important member of northeastern United States vernal pool ecosystems. The extent of gene flow among populations of vernal pool fairy shrimp in the Northeast is currently unknown, yet this information is important for understanding the ecology and evolution of this species.In order to infer the level of gene flow among E. vernalis populations, we used mtDNA sequence data to estimate the level of genetic divergence and the pattern of geographic variation among 22 vernal pool populations sampled across Massachusetts during spring 2003. We found significant differences among vernal pool populations in the frequency of unique mtDNA sequences, but no coherent geographic pattern in the distribution of these sequences, and there was no significant correlation between levels of genetic divergence and geographic distance. We argue that these results reflect priority effects rather than limited dispersal among these populations.
43287128|Collections of bird specimens are an important resource for teaching bird identification, but acquiring suitable specimens can be problematic. Older collections tend to be preserved with a variety of potentially harmful chemicals; additionally, traditional methods for preparing specimens typically require extensive training. Freeze-drying is a method that involves removing water from specimens via sublimation, and may be an acceptable alternative to conventional taxidermy techniques for teaching collections. We freeze-dried 63 birds and 12 bird parts (i.e., talons and wings) of 44 species salvaged from throughout Pennsylvania since January 2008 using a Taxi-Dry Freeze-Dryer (Freeze-dry Specialties, Inc.). To determine the extent of water lost during the freeze-drying process, we measured the masses of birds and parts before and after preservation. Whole birds that were successfully freeze-dried lost 59.4%  0.9% (mean  SE) of their initial mass, and unsuccessfully dried birds lost 46.9%  3.5% of their initial mass. Generally, birds with an initial mass > 160 g did not lose enough water in the freeze-drying process to be effectively preserved. We conclude that if proper storage and maintenance conditions are met, freeze-drying can be an effective method for preserving small bird specimens for teaching collections.
3858544|The incursion of residential and commercial development into terrestrial habitats is resulting in measurable changes to the composition and pattern of habitats and to the fauna and flora associated with them. To better understand the effects of urbanization on Rhode Island's landscape, we documented land-cover changes between 1972 and 1999 using Landsat remote sensing data. Analyses indicate land-cover changes involved major transitions of forested land to urban land-classes. For example, 14,986 hectares of forested land was converted into urban land between 1972 and 1985 resulting in a 21.0% increase in urban land-cover. Likewise, 6,551 hectares of forested land with more hectares of deciduous forest (4,806 ha) was converted into urban land between 1985 and 1999 resulting in an 18.0% increase in urban land-cover. Quantitative analyses also revealed that as forested land declined in spatial extent it declined in connectivity as the number of forest patches increased in the state, including areas defined as open space or rare and endangered species' habitat.
25177065|The British Headquarters Map, circa 1782, provides a remarkable window onto the natural topography, hydrology, and land cover of Manhattan Island, NY, before extensive urbanization. Manhattan formerly hosted a rugged topography watered by over 108 km of streams and at least 21 ponds, flowing in and out of wetlands that covered nearly 10% of the island in the late 18th century. These features are largely representative of the landscape prior to European settlement. We used ecological features interpreted from the British Headquarters Map, and additional historical, ecological, and archeological information, to hypothesize about the ecosystem composition of the pre-European island. We suggest that 54 different ecological communities may have once been found on the island or in nearby waters, including chestnut-tulip tree forests, Hempstead Plains grasslands, freshwater and tidal marshes, hardwood swamps, peatlands, rocky headwater streams, coastal-plain ponds, eelgrass meadows, and culturally derived ecosystems, such as Native American village sites and fields. This former ecosystem mosaic, consisting of over 99% natural areas, stands in sharp contrast to the 21st-century state of the island in which only 3% of its area is dedicated to ecological management.
3858685|During the summer of 2003, we studied a series of potential indicators of biological integrity on various sites in an intensively managed forest landscape in northwestern New Brunswick, Canada, to provide empirical testing of ecological requirements described by earlier researchers. Pitfall traps were used and each individual was identified to the species. Of the 54 ground beetle species identified, seven species were either new records for the province (n = 3: Harpalus solitaris, Patrobus foveocollis, and Trechus crassiscapus) or rarely reported (n = 4: Agonum superioris, Pseudamara arenaria, Scaphinotus bilobus, and Sphaeroderus nitidicollis brevoorti).
41684258|Given the paucity of literature on plant-fungal interactions on serpentine soils and limited investigation of serpentine geoecology in eastern North America, we examined mycorrhizal colonization of Hypericum perforatum from adjacent serpentine and granite outcrops on the Deer Isles, ME to determine whether plants were differentially colonized based on substrate. We coincided our sampling with three phenologic stages of H. perforatum (preflowering, flowering, postflowering) to determine possible differences in colonization based on plant phenology. The levels of mycorrhizal colonization in H. perforatum were not significantly different between serpentine and granite sites, while levels of colonization in postflowering plants were significantly higher than in those at preflowering and flowering stages.
10.2307/3858445|The nesting behavior of >150 females of Episyron quinquenotatus was studied comparatively at eight localities in the northeastern United States from 1967 to 1993. The two major study sites, Presque Isle State Park, Erie County, PA, and Auburn, Cayuga County, NY, were investigated mainly during 1967 -1969. Wasps nesting in sand at Presque Isle dug longer and deeper burrows more rapidly than females nesting in loamy fine sand at Auburn. Females at Auburn were smaller than those at Presque Isle and transported prey spiders mainly on the ground. The prey spiders at Presque Isle were often carried in flight by the larger wasps. Mechanics of nest closure sometimes differed between wasps at the two localities. Females captured six genera and nine species of orb-weaving spiders (Araneidae) at seven localities. Araneus patagiatus adult females, A. diadematus immatures, and Eustala anastera adult females were predominant prey at Presque Isle while Araniella displicata adult females and Neoscona arabesca adult females were prevalent prey at Auburn. Larger wasps laid larger eggs. There was a positive correlation between size of prey spider and size of wasp produced in the next generation. Females at Presque Isle sometimes completed two or, rarely, three nests per day.
10.2307/3858646|The Great Cypress Swamp Conservation Area (GCSCA) comprises the largest contiguous forest on the Delmarva Peninsula (>5000 ha). An avian inventory using a fifty-meter fixed-radius point count method was undertaken during the nesting seasons of 1996 through 1998 to determine species composition, relative abundance, and frequency of breeding forest birds. Seventy-three species were found to comprise the breeding-season avifauna of this natural area including 14 warblers. Seven of the ten most abundant species were neotropical migrants. The Worm-eating Warbler and the Brown-headed Cowbird were the most abundant and most frequently encountered species, respectively. Several birds of local conservation concern were found, including two regionally rare species: Swainson's Warbler and Black-throated Green Warbler. Two warblers previously known to breed here were not found during this survey: American Redstart and Northern Parula. Management of the GCSCA for forest birds should focus first on protection of extant populations and secondly on restoration. Comprehensive systematic inventories of large areas of contiguous forest should be considered a high priority for biologists concerned with the regional conservation of species of concern.
10.2307/3858528|Somes Sound has been described as the only example of a fjord on the east coast of the United States. On a small scale, and from a morphological point of view, the Sound has key features normally associated with fjords, including pronounced subaerial topographic relief, submarine sills, and the U-shaped cross-section typical of glacially-carved troughs. However, based on its salinity distribution, which is related to the mixing and circulation processes used to characterize estuarine types from an oceanographic point of view, Somes Sound is a vertically well-mixed estuary that does not exhibit the strong stratification typical of fjords. While its geomorphology is unique, the oceanographic processes operating in the embayment are essentially the same as those in other shallow Maine estuaries with low fresh water input. In these estuaries, as well as in Somes Sound, tidal mixing is dominant over freshwater inflow in determining the circulation and the vertical stratification of the water column.
3858538|This short review focuses on lichens which have cyanobacteria as their main photosynthetic partner or in localized areas termed cephalodia. Research is cited to show that cyanolichens are very sensitive to gaseous air pollution, to acid rain, and to habitat disturbance. These lichens are worth conserving for their own sake but are also valuable for assessing the status of forests in areas like northeastern North America, where forests cover large tracts of land. The richness of the cyanolichen flora reflects biological diversity in the forests. Cyanolichens fix atmospheric nitrogen, are generally nutrient-rich, and have a diverse associated invertebrate fauna. These invertebrates provide food that sustain both resident and migrating birds. Management strategies that might be used to maintain and ensure the survival of the rich cyanolichen flora of the northeastern U.S. and Atlantic Provinces of Canada are presented and discussed.
10.2307/3858663|A survey of invertebrates inhabiting salt marsh pools in southern Maine revealed the presence of larval Goeldichironomus devineyae, a midge fly species of the family Chironomidae. The larvae were collected from sediments in eight pools with salinities of 26-39% and reared to adults for species verification. This represents a considerable range extension for the species that was previously recorded from the southeastern coast of the United States.
25177103|American Woodcock singing-ground surveys (SGS) have been conducted annually on Fort Drum Military Installation since 1992 (excluding 1993 and 2000). These SGS indicate Fort Drum has a stable to slightly increasing breeding woodcock population, with average numbers of males heard per route ranging between 13.00 and 22.58 birds. These numbers are significantly higher, and in stark contrast, to many parts of the American Woodcock's range, where numbers have been in decline for over 30 years. We suggest that current forest management practices and military training create favorable successional regimes that satisfy all necessary life-history requirements and help sustain these densities of breeding woodcock at Fort Drum.
10.2307/3858714|During 1993-94 and 1994-95 the amount of watershield (Brasenia schreberi) in selected Maryland wetlands was determined to see if any relationship existed between the amount of watershield on a wetland and the number of ring-necked ducks (Aythya collaris) observed on that wetland. Data were collected for two years from eight different wetlands on the Patuxent Wildlife Research Center in Laurel, Maryland. Results indicate that there was no significant correlation between the amount of watershield in a wetland and the number of ring-necked ducks observed on that wetland.
3858289| Unambiguous species identification is fundamental, especially when attempting to study species-specific interactions or management and conservation issues. Current weasel identification methods are based on external and cranial morphology, yet North American weasels show significant geographic variation in size and considerable overlap occurs in measurements of Mustela erminea and M. frenata. As a result, these species can easily be confused. Our objectives were to: (1) develop a simple method based on restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analyses to classify Mustela spp. in eastern Qubec, Canada; (2) validate existing external and cranial morphological criteria in the literature for weasel identification; and (3) calculate discriminant functions based on genetically identified specimens to aid in Mustela identification where genetic laboratory facilities are not readily available. Skeletal and external measurements were taken on adult male Mustela specimens (n=28) that had been collected in the winter of 2002-2003. Results from genetic analyses confirmed a northern range expansion of long-tailed weasels into Qubec and revealed that current morphological criteria alone are not adequate for classifying Mustela specimens. As many as 18% of Mustela erminea and M. frenata individuals were mis-identified due to morphological measurements, either falling outside known ranges for each species or inside measurement ranges common to both species. 
3858457|In some years, inland "wrecks" of Dovekies (Alle alle) have occurred in northeastern North America in November to February, with birds apparently driven inland by storms from wintering areas off eastern Canada and the northeastern United States. In the late 19th century, small numbers also were recorded inland in September in Maine (1869), Massachusetts (1872), Connecticut (1874), and Pennsylvania (1878). No inland occurrences in September were recorded for another 90 years until individuals were sighted in Qubec (1962 and 1963) and on Lake Ontario in upstate New York (1983). September birds arrived inland earlier in the year than when most individuals depart colonies in the High Arctic and move to wintering areas in the northwest Atlantic Ocean. However, the geographic pattern of September inland occurrences was similar to major late-fall and winter inland wrecks, suggesting a common source area. Dovekies reported inland in September likely originated from among the small numbers of subadults that summered off Newfoundland or subadults or failed breeders that moved southward from breeding areas before molting, and were not long-distance vagrants.
60225649|The nutrient distribution in the highly productive, macrotidal Cobscook Bay, located in the northern Gulf of Maine, was investigated through a series of spring-neap cruises during the spring, summer, and fall of 1995. Sampling design included three 5-station transects at major constrictions in the Bay and 21 peripheral stations in the principal coves and sub-embayments. Results indicate that Cobscook Bay is nutrient rich throughout the year and is potentially eutrophic. Plots of salinity against nitrate show that this is a totally natural circumstance brought about by an abundant supply of nutrients, most importantly nitrate, from the adjacent Gulf of Maine. Predictive nutrient algorithms fitted with a hydrodynamic model emphasize the high nitrate water entering the Bay from the seaward end and diminishing in concentration with distance from the mouth. The plant biomass produced is heavily grazed, resulting in high ammonium concentrations from excretion and regeneration. The high ammonium concentrations and its incomplete re-utilization by the phytoplankton strongly suggest that plant biomass is controlled by grazing. In other words, despite a high natural nutrient loading, natural grazing processes serve to limit the accumulation of plant material and potential eutrophication. Comparing all potential nitrogen fluxes indicates that man-made contributions are not significant to the overall nutrient budget of Cobscook Bay, although they may have local impacts.
10.2307/3858698|This paper investigated the potential for the exotic shrub Rhamnus frangula L. (glossy buckthorn) to alter native plant community composition in southeastern New Hampshire. Stratified random sampling was performed with 2 m  2 m plots randomly located in 5 m intervals along three 50 m transects in four even-aged Pinus-mixed hardwood forests, three of which were managed stands. The associations between R. frangula and the measured species abundances and environmental variables were investigated using linear, least-squares multiple regression and Non-metric Multidimensional Scaling Ordination. Plot basal area of R. frangula was inversely related to woody seedling density (p < 0.001), herb cover (p < 0.05), and species richness (p < 0.01). The relative contribution of R. frangula to explaining variance in seedling density was greater than canopy openness, soil pH, soil clay, or soil sand. Abundance of R. frangula was a statistically significant predictor (p < 0.05) of individual herb species abundances for all study sites. This evidence supports the hypothesis that R. frangula causes a decline in seedling density and alters native ground level plant species abundances. Furthermore, the patterns agree with the suppression of ground level plant species abundances by R. frangula found in removal experiments.
43287099|We investigated nesting success of grassland birds on dry prairie and oak barrens patches embedded within a forested matrix on Fort McCoy Military Installation. We monitored 280 nests of 9 grassland-bird species from mid-May to late July 2000-2002. Pooecetes gramineus (Vesper Sparrow) and Ammodramus savannarum (Grasshopper Sparrow) were the most abundant nesting species. Vesper Sparrow nest densities were highest on smaller grassland patches, while Grasshopper Sparrow nest densities were highest on the largest patches. Probability of fledging at least one young was 0.20 for Vesper Sparrow. For Grasshopper Sparrow, daily nest survival was higher for nests placed away from trees; probability of fledging at least one young was 0.28 for nests away from trees and 0.05 for nests near trees. Maintaining remnant native habitats is important, and management of woody features may help improve habitat quality for some grassland birds in Wisconsin.
4130974|Trends in abundance for winter flounder (Pseudopleuronectes americanus), windowpane (Scophthalmus aquosus), hogchoker (Trinectes maculatus), tautog (Tautoga onitis), and scup (Stenotomus chrysops) in upper and lower Mount Hope Bay were compared to trends in Narragansett Bay to assess the effect of natural and anthropogenic stressors, including Brayton Point Power Station, on Mount Hope Bay fishes from 1972 to 2001. Sources of data included the Rhode Island Division of Fish and Wildlife trawl survey for Narragansett Bay and lower Mount Hope Bay, the University of Rhode Island Graduate School of Oceanography trawl survey for Narragansett Bay, and the Marine Research, Inc. trawl and Brayton Point Station impingement surveys for upper Mount Hope Bay. Analysis of covariance and Tukey-Kramer multiple comparison tests were used to evaluate differences in the slopes of transformed abundance indices from 1972-2001 and for two subsets of years, 1972 to 1985 and 1986 to 2001, periods of lower and higher power plant cooling water withdrawals, respectively. Trends in abundance of these species in both upper and lower Mount Hope Bay are not substantively different from those in Narragansett Bay during any of the three time periods evaluated. This is evident through either a highlevel visual inspection of the slopes measured for each species, time period, and area or a more detailed inspection of the analysis of covariance results and Tukey-Kramer confidence intervals associated with each slope estimate. Natural and anthropogenic stressors unique to Mount Hope Bay, including Brayton Point Station, have not caused Mount Hope Bay fish stocks to change at rates different from those observed for the same stocks in Narragansett Bay. This supports the conclusion that large-scale factors such as overfishing, climate change, and increased predator abundance are more likely to be the cause of the observed declines in important species such as winter flounder in Mount Hope Bay and Narragansett Bay.
10.2307/3858658|The Asian shore crab, Hemigrapsus sanguineus, was observed occupying fiddler crab burrows (Uca pugnax) at low tide in a Spartina salt marsh at Sherwood Island, Westport, Connecticut. Forty-seven percent (48/103) of the fiddler crab burrows censused were occupied by crabs. Of those, 81% held fiddler crabs while the remainder held Asian crabs. Fiddler crabs and Asian crabs were never found in the same burrow. Unlike the Asian crab, fiddler crabs preferred areas of the "marsh edge" where rocks and small stones were not present. Hemigrapsus sanguineus, which can be found under the shelter of rocks, shells, and other debris on tidal flats along the fringes of the marsh, probably searches the marsh edge as the tide recedes for unused burrows to occupy. Field caging experiments used to investigate possible competitive interactions between these two species indicated that the presence of the Asian crab had no effect on burrow utilization by the fiddler crab. It is unlikely that patterns of habitat use by the east coast salt marsh fiddler crab, Uca pugnax, will be significantly affected by the recent introduction of the Asian crab, H. sanguineus, to this area.
25177083|Gaylussacia brachycera (box huckleberry) is a slow-growing, dwarf evergreen member of the family Ericaceae that is native to eight states in the eastern United States. It is a rare plant with conservation status in several states of critically imperiled (S1). Botanists have been intrigued by this enigmatic native plant since it was discovered in 1796 in Virginia. One of the mysteries of this species is whether plants in a colony arose from different genotypes or are clonal. The species reproduces primarily by means of underground runners and appears to be self-sterile, so sexual reproduction within isolated colonies could be limited. Using molecular markers, we tested samples taken from three of the best-known colonies in Pennsylvania and one in Tennessee. Based on 104 polymorphic markers, we found that one of the Pennsylvania colonies contained two genotypes among 11 samples tested; one Pennsylvania colony contained three genotypes among five samples tested; and the other two colonies exhibited no variation among the 8-10 samples tested. This study represents the first time that molecular markers have been used in a systematic assay to determine the existence of variation among individuals within a colony of box huckleberry.
3858546|The Boston Society of Natural History, founded in 1830, replaced the Linnaean Society, which had been active from 1813 to 1823. The founding members of both groups were mostly physicians who were interested in natural history. They were concerned with the collection and display of natural objects, the study of specimens, and public education. The large number of important publications that the Boston Society would eventually produce between 1834 and 1946 commenced with a noteworthy volume of the Boston Journal of Natural History. After 30 years of effort, capped by the generosity of Dr. William J. Walker, a beautiful museum building was finally completed in 1863. Soon thereafter, professionals who had mostly been trained by Louis Agassiz at Harvard filled the museum positions. From 1870 until his death in 1902, Alpheus Hyatt, an Agassiz student and an exponent of the neo-Lamarckian School, was director of the Boston Society. He was succeeded by Charles W. Johnson. A paucity of funds during Johnson's tenure caused the trustees to limit the Society's scope to the natural history of New England, and the dispersal of its collections was begun. In 1946, the Society's extensive library was sold, and soon afterwards the museum building was also disposed of. The Society changed its name to the Boston Museum of Science. It was now no longer concerned with research but only with popular education. It is located today in Boston's Science Park beside the Charles River.
10.2307/3858674|Soil fauna of the Baltimore-Washington Metropolitan Area, MD was assessed as part of the Baltimore Ecosystem Study Long Term Ecological Research Site. The majority of earthworm species were European exotics, and one of them Lumbricus friendi Cognetti, 1904 proved to be a new species to the fauna of North America. The species is very similar to L. terrestris, thus a comparative description of the two species is given.
40959923|The distribution of imperiled stream fish, crayfish, salamander, and freshwater mussel species of Maryland streams in relation to urban land cover and nonnative species was investigated. Over the last 30 years, extinction or extirpation of 13 stream animal species (including the endemic Etheostoma sellare [Maryland Darter]) was observed within the Piedmont region of Maryland, where urbanization has spread extensively outward from Baltimore and Washington, DC, and many non-native species have become established. The presence of imperiled species in this area was correlated with urbanization and non-native species occurrence. However, correlations with land-cover data were stronger than with non-native occurrence. The majority of sites with imperiled species contained less than 10% urban land cover and less than 5% impervious land cover in their catchments. In contrast, stream reaches with non-native species spanned the entire gradient of urban, agriculture, and forested land cover, with the majority of non-native species persisting in streams with over 60% urban and 40% impervious land cover. The persistence of rare species coincident with introduced species in rural portions of Maryland indicates that habitat degradation (like that typically accompanying urbanization) may be the most important threat limiting the distributions of the rarest species that remain in these streams. Limits on urbanization in areas with rare species are needed to maintain regional and global biological diversity. This is particularly important in areas like Maryland that are anticipating extensive human population and urban growth over the next 30 years.
3858499|We evaluated three possible functions of clonal growth related to genet persistence in the root-suckering understory tree pawpaw, Asimina triloba (L.) Dunal: (1) risk spreading through multiplication of stems, (2) enhanced establishment and survival of new stems, and (3) horizontal expansion growth of patches. The number, diameter growth, and spatial distribution of annual stem recruits were examined over three years in a natural population of pawpaw. The rate of stem recruitment was consistently higher than stem mortality. We found no difference in stem turnover rate for patches of different size, indicating that stem production is more than high enough to avoid patch extinction. Although newly formed stems were considerably smaller than previously established stems, they grew and survived as well as established stems. We found no evidence for clonal growth contributing to extensive horizontal expansion of patches. Our results suggest that ensuring survivorship of new stems is the main ecological role of clonal growth in pawpaw.
4499912|Storm-water drainage catch basins are manmade structures that often contain water and organic matter, making them suitable environments for various organisms. We censused organisms inhabiting catch basins in southern Rhode Island in 2002 in an effort to begin to describe these communities. Catch-basin inhabitants were mostly detritivores, including annelids, arthropods, and mollusks that could withstand low oxygen levels and droughts. Our results suggest that catch-basin inhabitants were mostly washed in with rainwater, and populations increased over the summer season as biotic activity resulted in increased nutrient levels later in the summer. In contrast, mosquitoes and other Diptera larvae were abundant earlier in the summer because the adults actively sought catch basins for oviposition sites. Mosquito larvae were likely to be abundant in catch basins with shallow, stagnant water that had relatively low dissolved oxygen and pH, and relatively high total suspended solids, carbon, and nitrogen.
10.2307/3858661|Three nests of Crabro advena from near Chittenango, Madison County, NY were excavated, examined, measured, and drawn. The cell contents were taken to a laboratory, analyzed, weighed, and sent out for identification. Adult Tachinidae comprised the major prey type captured by the wasps. This study further extends the ecological and behavioral variation of C. advena. Information on nesting season, soil type, number of cells per nest, cell depth, number of prey per fully provisioned cell, and prey type from this and five other upstate New York studies are compared.
41810149|In Canada, Lepomis auritus (Redbreast Sunfish) is only found in southwestern New Brunswick, which is the northern limit for the species. In 1989, The Committee on the Status of Endangered Wildlife in Canada (COSEWIC) listed it as a species of special concern due to its limited distribution, and changed the status to data deficient in 2008. The purpose of our study is to begin to build a database of ecological information for the Redbreast Sunfish in New Brunswick. The most northern population occurs in Yoho Lake. Population estimates averaged 386 from 2005 to 2007. The average total length and weight were 12.5  3.1 cm and 42.6  27.3 g, respectively. The length-frequency distributions were consistent over the years, suggesting a stable population structure. Most adult and juvenile sunfish were observed in areas of dense vegetation and large woody debris. Snorkeling surveys were conducted from late June to early July 2005-2007 to assess timing and habitat preference of spawning Redbreast Sunfish. The nests averaged 52.4  10.1 cm in diameter and were 43.9  12.2 cm deep. Nest substrate was sandy with small gravel, and only 33% of the nests were associated with a physical structure in the water column. Overall, the population of Redbreast Sunfish in Yoho Lake appears to be healthy and stable.
40664845|Ammodramus savannarum (Grasshopper Sparrow) is a grassland passerine considered at risk in several regions of eastern USA and Canada. Detailed information is lacking on structure and breeding-habitat components for Grasshopper Sparrows in eastern Canada. We surveyed Grasshopper Sparrows in suitable habitats in southwestern Quebec and described habitat characteristics to increase our knowledge of the species' breeding-habitat associations in eastern Canada. Grasshopper Sparrows were detected in grass-dominated abandoned fields, pastureland, and hayfields generally located on poor sandy soil supporting low and sparse vegetation. Suitable sites with or without Grasshopper Sparrows did not differ in their structural components nor in their plant composition. Sites used by Grasshopper Sparrows were embedded within a perennial crop-dominated matrix where forest cover was reduced, and were larger than sites where they were absent. Conservation and stewardship activities should aim to secure large tracts of grasslands in southwestern Qubec.
10.2307/3858323|Three species of hippoboscid flies were collected from landbirds captured on Bon Portage Island, a small island off the southwestern tip of Nova Scotia. Of the 73 hippoboscids collected, 67 specimens were Ornithomya anchineuria, 5 were Icosta americana and 1 was Ornithoica vicina. One specimen of O. anchineuria was collected from a boreal chickadee and one from a red breasted nuthatch, species which have not previously been recorded as hosts for this hippoboscid species. Juvenile birds were infested more heavily than adult birds. A total infestation rate of 5.74% was found on Bon Portage Island.
41429238|We collected ectoparasites from 5 Myotis septentrionalis (Northern Myotis) and 12 Myotis leibii (Eastern Small-Footed Myotis) captured in Grant County, WV during summer 2008. We recovered Euschoengastia pipistrelli from Northern Myotis and Leptotrombidium myotis, Androlaelaps casalis, Cryptonysuss desultorius, and Ornithodorus kelleyi from Eastern Small-Footed Myotis. This is the first report of parasites from either bat in West Virginia, and each ectoparasite species collected represents a new state host locality record, with C. desultorius and O. kelleyi being new state records. Because records of ectoparasites are often widely scattered and both bats have undergone extensive taxonomic revision, we summarize all available records of ectoparasites from both species of bats.
27744597|Tributary and mainstem corridors represent important fish-connectivity avenues in large riverscapes. We evaluated the connectivity of 40 Monongahela River tributaries in southwestern Pennsylvania and their respective mainstem junctions using a variety of gears. Twelve tributaries were so fragmented by physical and water-quality impediments, comparisons could not be made. Among the 28 remaining tributaries, classified as adventitious (1st3rd order) or ordered (4th5th order), we evaluated fish communities using the Jaccard coefficient of similarity, a cluster analysis, and a Venn diagram. Adventitious tributaries shared 82% of their total faunal complement with ordered tributaries and 29% with the mainstem, while 70% of the ordered ichthyofauna was common to the mainstem. The ichthyofauna of the adventitious tributary network was more distinct and isolated from the mainstem than that of ordered tributaries. In fragmented riverscapes such as this, islands (tributaries) of biodiversity may warrant special protection.
41315953|Recent establishment of invasive Alosa pseudoharengus (Alewife) in Lake Champlain and in the lake's watershed has been cause for concern. Based on three larval specimens newly discovered in the New York State Museum collections, we document Alewife in Lake Champlain in 1929. Therefore, there has been at least one early unsuccessful introduction of Alewife into Lake Champlain and there may have been others that escaped notice. Changing lake conditions may have allowed Alewife to recently become established.
41315961|Genetic findings suggest that 2 types of wolves, Canis lupus (Gray Wolf) and C. lycaon (Eastern Wolf), and/or their hybrids occupy Minnesota (MN), and this study examines adult wolf ear lengths as a possible distinguisher between these two. Photographic evidence suggested that the Eastern Wolf possesses proportionately longer ears than Gray Wolves. Ear lengths from 22 northwestern MN wolves from the early 1970s and 22 Alaskan wolves were used to represent Gray Wolves, and the greatest length of the sample (12.8 cm) was used as the least length to demarcate Eastern Wolf from Gray Wolf influence in the samples. Twenty-three percent of 112 adult wolves from Algonquin Park in eastern Ontario and 30% of 106 recent adult wolves in northeastern MN possessed ears > 12.8 cm. The northeastern MN sample differed significantly from that of current and past northwestern MN wolves. Ear-lengths of wolves in the eastern half of the northeastern MN wolf population were significantly longer than those in the western half of that study area, even though the mean distance between the 2 areas was only 40 km, and the mean length of my 2004-2009 sample was significantly longer than that of 1999-2003. These findings support the hypothesis that Eastern Wolves tend to possess longer ears than do Gray Wolves and suggest a dynamic hybridization process is still underway in MN.
40664873|This study examined the genetic nature and relatedness of Canis latrans (Coyotes) in eastern Massachusetts (i.e., eastern Coyotes). We characterized 67 animals at the mitochondrial DNA control region, and 55 of those at 8 microsatellite loci.Structure analysis and factorial correspondence analysis of the microsatellite genotypes indicated that the eastern Coyotes in Massachusetts clustered with other northeastern Canis populations and away from western Coyotes, C lycaon (Eastern Wolves), and C. lupus (Gray Wolves). They contained mitochondrial haplotypes from both western Coyotes and Eastern Wolves, consistent with their hybrid origin from these two species.There was no evidence of either C lupus familiaris (Domestic Dog) or Gray Wolf mitochondrial DNA in the animals. These results indicate that the eastern Coyote should more appropriately be termed "Coywolf ' to reflect their hybrid (C. latrans x lycaon) origin. Genetic data were also used to assess parental and kinship relationships, and confirmed that family units typically contain an unrelated breeding pair and their offspring.Lastly, a synthesis of knowledge of the eastern Coyote as well as implications for Wolf recovery in the northeast US is provided.
27744570|The Nerodia erythrogaster neglecta (Copper-bellied Watersnake) population north of 40 degrees north latitude is categorized as threatened under the US Endangered Species Act. Previous efforts to use mark-recapture to estimate population size have been unsuccessful because there were so few initial captures. We therefore evaluated the status of the largest presumed subpopulation of this population by using strip transects to provide a conservative (maximum) estimate of density and population size of adults. Our results indicate that the largest presumed adult Copper-bellied Watersnake metapopulation north of 40 degrees north latitude is extremely small, with a total size of 94  22 adults, and is characterized by a population density of 1.17  0.27 adult snakes/ha (95% CI = 0.731.87 snake/ha). This Copper-bellied Watersnake population appears to be in danger of extirpation within the foreseeable future. Recovery will require protecting existing wetland complexes and restoring wetlands and the surrounding upland habitats.
60225658|Cobscook Bay inventory is a historical checklist that documents nearly 800 species of macroinvertebrates found in Cobscook Bay, ME, based on collection records spanning the past 162 years. Information on species occurrence over time has been compiled from published literature, museum collection records, electronic databases, graduate students theses, and species collection lists from invertebrate zoologists. Nearly all records have been reviewed for the validity of identifications by an international group of taxonomic specialists. Accepted species names and their authorities are listed along with alternate names used previously for well over a century. This format results in a historical timeline of the occurrence of species in Cobscook Bay that starts with discovery and continues through past and recent records for each species. It is hoped this database will provide a baseline that will be updated with discoveries of new species, made by developing molecular techniques and observed changes in species occurrence from invasions or local extinctions, to keep its historical perspective intact.
10.2307/3858438|Somatochlora brevicincta is added to the Atlantic Provinces list; Aeshna juncea and S. brevicincta to the Maritime Provinces; A. juncea, A. subarctica, S. brevicincta and S. septentrionalis to New Brunswick; S. albicincta, S. brevicincta and Pantala flavescens to Nova Scotia; A. subarctica, Epitheca spinigera, S. cingulata, S. franklini, Leucorrhinia frigida and P. flavescens to Prince Edward Island.
10.2307/3858401|A recent find of the groundwater-inhabiting copepod crustacean Diacyclops harryi extended the known range of this species far northwestward, to include northern Ohio and the drainage basin of the Laurentian Great Lakes. The species was previously collected in drainages of the Atlantic Slope from New York to North Carolina. Ostracodes tentatively identified as ?Nannocandona n. sp., and amphipods belonging to the subterranean species Bactrurus mucronatus were also found at the Ohio locality.
10.2307/3858322|Between 1994 and 1996 we identified 26 harp seals (Phoca groenlandica Erxleben) between the western shore of Penobscot Bay (44 05 N, 69 05 W) and Calais, Maine (45 11 N, 67 16 W). This represents a dramatic increase in sightings for this area, from which only three previous records have been published. Most sightings occurred between late January and early April. One individual was an adult with a pup, the first evidence for probable whelping in the region. All other individuals were juveniles, with males more abundant than females. Most individuals appeared to be in good health. A single tagged individual was subsequently reported from Fortune Bay, Newfoundland after having traveled at least 1,250 kilometers in an interval of 34 days.
10.2307/3858519|Mobile fishing gear affects biodiversity and habitat in New England offshore waters through selective fishing activity, seabed disturbance, and discarding and encounter mortality. Selective fishing activity results in geographically localized impacts on habitat and more widespread impacts on biodiversity through the selective removal of specific species with a higher economic value. Seabed disturbance by fishing activity results in physical impacts related to resuspension of fine sediments and scarring of the seabed, chemical effect due to resuspension of nutrients, and biological impacts related to alteration of the benthic community structure. Discards and other benthic fauna that encounter mobile gear and are impacted by the interaction, temporarily alter the ecosystem dynamic. In general, the habitat impacts are restricted to areas of heavy fishing activity, and in shallower water are ameliorated by natural processes that regularly disturb the seabed. Effects on biodiversity are more widespread due to the transient nature of many impacted species. Mobile fishing gear produces approximately 75% of the landings from New England offshore waters. Habitat impact and a loss of biodiversity may be considered a cost of seafood production. Preservation of habitat and biodiversity in marine sanctuaries and reserves is recommended to balance the effects of fishing. This is analogous to society's management strategy in the terrestrial environment.
27744538|In anticipation of the loss of Tsuga canadensis (Eastern Hemlock) dominated forests due to infestation by Adelges tsugae (Hemlock Woolly Adelgid), this study assessed the relative abundance of the ecologically important terrestrial salamander, Plethodon cinereus Green (Eastern Red-backed Salamander), in five Eastern Hemlock-dominated stands and four mixed deciduous stands at Harvard Forest in Petersham, MA. Pooling data from four seasons (fall 2003fall 2004; excluding winter), the relative abundance of P. cinereus as measured by the monitoring of artificial cover objects (ACOs) was significantly higher in Eastern Hemlock-dominated stands than in mixed deciduous stands (n = 444 P. cinereus observations). The relative abundance of P. cinereus was not significantly different in the two forest types as measured by natural cover object (NCO) searches over two seasons (fall 2003 and spring 2004), although sample sizes were small (n = 45 P. cinereus observations). This evidence that Eastern Hemlock-dominated forests provide equal or greater quality habitat for P. cinereus as mixed deciduous forests at Harvard Forest contrasts with studies from other areas of Eastern Hemlock's range, which have found the abundance of P. cinereus to be lower in this forest type. The conversion of Eastern Hemlock-dominated forest to mixed deciduous forest will have either have a negative impact or no impact on the relative abundance of P. cinereus at Harvard Forest.
10.2307/3858602|Length-age correlations of mature white suckers (Catostomus commersoni) were made using fish collected for organochlorine analysis in composite fish samples at 16 sites in the Connecticut River basin and seven sites in the Housatonic River basin. Compared to studies from Canadian lakes, the fish in these basins appeared smaller at a given age. Overall, the length-age relation appeared linear after maturity was reached, although the variability in this apparent growth rate was large among sites in both the Connecticut and Housatonic basins. Within the Housatonic basin, two sites with the lowest apparent growth rate were in parts of the river system that had high concentrations of PCBs in the sediment and fish tissue. However, within the Connecticut basin, apparent growth rates were relatively low at two sites where PCBs were not detected. Using the median ages of fish in the composite samples, comparisons were made with the lipid fractions and the PCB concentrations of the samples. Age of fish had no apparent effect on the lipid fraction, although age of fish did appear to influence the PCB concentration of the sample. However, this was probably due to a sampling bias of selecting older fish at more contaminated sites.
10.2307/3858406|First arrival dates for 115 species of migratory breeding birds were gathered by 89 observers across the state of Maine during the spring migration of 1994. Arrival dates in the 15 Biophysical Regions of Maine, regions based on vegetational, climatic, and physiographic patterns, yielded insight into the timing of spring migration. Unexpectedly, few species showed significant differences in their average arrival dates among the Biophysical Regions. Most significant differences involved later arrivals in the far northern portion of Maine. Birds were not late in arriving in the Western Mountains compared to lowland areas of the state. The study provides the most intensive data for a single year on arrival dates of migratory breeding birds in Maine.
25177109|We quantified relative extent of pelage staining in Scalopus aquaticus (eastern mole) as an indicator of scent-gland marking, and evaluated whether staining was associated with colored pelage spots and patches often prevalent on the snout and ventral surface of individuals. Moles were collected from southern Illinois (n = 91) and from Cincinnati, OH (n = 152). Adult moles scent-marked more than juveniles, but pelage staining was independent of breeding season for males and females. Pelage spotting occurred in 33.7% of the sample and was not associated with pelage staining from glandular secretions, as has been suggested by some previous investigators. Pelage spots were most prevalent on the ventral surface. Ventral spotting occurred more often in males than females (P &lt; 0.001). Mean area of ventral spots was 2.81 cm with no differences in area related to sex or age.
4131006|While many amphibians have complex life cycles involving a primarily terrestrial adult phase and an aquatic larval phase, use of terrestrial habits by adult forms remains poorly understood. We used radiotelemetry to track the post-breeding dispersals of 16 female Bufo americanus during the summer and fall of 2001 to determine the extent of upland habitat use by females of this species. Female toads dispersed a minimum of 250 m and up to 1000 m from the breeding pond with the majority (97%) of relocations occurring more than 400 m from the breeding site. Typically dispersal paths were non-random and linear, punctuated by periods of sedentary behavior. During periods of sedentary behavior females confined their activities to an area of several m
10.2307/3858476|Harp seals (Phoca groenlandica) whelp on the North Atlantic pack ice in early spring, move north in the summer and then, historically, return as far south as Nova Scotia in the fall. Because recent reports document increased sightings in the northern Gulf of Maine, we reviewed records of harp seal sightings between Kittery and Rockland, Maine to determine if this increase is also occurring in the southern Gulf. From 1997 to 2001 we found 357 confirmed reports of harp seal sightings. Most (85%) occurred in the first quarter of the year and almost all (96%) were juveniles. The total sightings for 2001 (N=238) greatly exceeded the number in any other year. The weight and health status of the seals sighted in 2001 was no different from those of previous study years. Thus, harp seals are sighted in substantial numbers in both the southern and northern Gulf of Maine. The reason for this general increase, as well as the reason for the spike in 2001, is unknown.
10.2307/3858409|Introductions of sharp-tailed grouse (Tympanuchus phasianellus) into Maine were approved by the Maine Department of Inland Fisheries and Game in 1954. Habitat inventories in 1955 suggested > 1800 km<sup>2</sup> were available for sharptails in Washington County. Seventy sharp-tailed grouse from North Dakota and Nebraska were hard released near feeders in Washington County from 1957 to 1961.
25177098|Nymphaea odorata (American white water lily) is an aquatic plant that displays pronounced heterophylly, the appearance of different leaf forms on a single plant. Water lilies produce leaves that either float or are held above the water's surface. In this paper, we describe the natural history of water lily leaf forms and examine some of the factors that stimulate heterophylly. Over the course of a growing season, the predominant leaf form switches from surface leaves in the early season to aerial leaves in the midseason and then back to surface leaves at season's end. While many factors are known to contribute to heterophylly, our results suggest that changes in the light environment may be the controlling factor in this system.
41429417|Increasing urbanization in the United States presents new challenges and opportunities for wildlife species. One species that is thought to benefit from urbanization is Didelphis virginiana (Virginia Opossum). We used radio-telemetry to determine homerange size of opossums living in an urban area and compared body mass measurements of urban and rural animals to ascertain how urbanization affects this parameter for opossums. Minimum convex polygon estimates for male (37.3  46.0 ha; n = 3) and female home ranges (18.8  15.6 ha; n = 5) were smaller than those reported for opossums in rural areas and similar to those from previous urban studies. Opossums living within the city limits had an average body mass (3.0  0.8 kg) that was 34% larger than those in rural areas (2.2  0.6 kg). These data, combined with previous work, suggest that urban areas provide more resources and may be beneficial to opossum populations.
43287137|Evidence for the presence of the native philomycid slugs Philomycus carolinianus (Carolina Mantleslug) and Megapallifera mutabilis (Changeable Mantleslug) in Wisconsin is given through data on body length, external morphology, traits of the jaw, color pattern, genital morphology, and comparison to the known distribution data for members of the genera. These are the first published records from Wisconsin for these two species.
43287135|We provide a preliminary assessment of the ground-dwelling arthropod community composition in six common coastal dune ecosystem land cover-types at Cape Cod National Seashore. We captured 6815 individual arthropods representing 16 arthropod orders from 1008 terrestrial pitfall trap-nights. The most abundant orders were Hymenoptera, Diptera, Araneae, and Isopoda (76.1%, 8.5%, 5.5%, and 3.3% of total captures, respectively). There were differences in ground-dwelling arthropod community composition among the three early-successional and the three later-successional cover types, with the latter having a greater overall arthropod diversity and higher capture rates for a number of the major arthropod taxa captured. Our report is among the first communitywide analyses of arthropod community composition in coastal dune ecosystems of the northeastern US. The results from this study should be viewed as a preliminary assessment given that: 1) we employed a single trapping method (i.e., pitfall traps); 2) traps were only open during the late-afternoon to early morning hours, and only during the summer months; and 3) captured arthropods were classified only to order. We hope our report will inspire additional research of coastal dune arthropod communities.
3858292|Negative impacts of Phragmites australis expansion in tidal marshes along the Atlantic coast of North America have spurred numerous efforts to eradicate this invader. Nonetheless, Phragmites-dominated marshes may have considerable habitat value, and few studies have examined the short-term effects of various Phragmites-control treatments on resident animals. The present study addresses the impacts of herbicide (Rodeo) spraying and rotary mowing of Phragmites upon the use of the marsh surface by macroinvertebrates and fishes within a few months of treatment. During spring tides in July, August, and September of 2002, fishes and crustaceans leaving flooded marsh areas along the Lieutenant River, a lower Connecticut River tributary, were captured with Breder traps at 30 sites equally distributed among treated Phragmites, untreated Phragmites, and Typha angustifolia marsh areas. Macroinvertebrates were collected in the three types of marsh using litter bags and shallow pit traps placed along transects normal to the river bank. Treatment produced large mats of Phragmites litter which were gradually removed from the marsh surface, but more rapidly near the river bank than farther into the marsh interior. Macroinvertebrates sampled by both methods were as abundant in treated areas as in untreated Phragmites. Fish and crustacean assemblages in the different types of marsh were similar. Overall, the numbers of Fundulus heteroclitus, the dominant fish species, were not significantly different among treated, untreated, and Typha marshes. This fish foraged extensively, and its diets were similar in all three marsh areas. Herbicide treatment and mowing of Phragmites appeared to have no major impact upon macroinvertebrate and fish use of the marsh during the following few months.
4131010|Between 1980 and present, we inventoried freshwater mussel populations at 129 aquatic sites throughout Rhode Island. We found 8 native mussel species and documented the presence of Corbicula sp. (Asiatic clam). The Rhode Island mussel fauna has been degraded by a long history of damming and discharges into rivers. Significant lake populations have also been eliminated by basin reconfigurations, pollution, and urban development. Elliptio complanata is currently the most wide-spread and common Rhode Island species. Pyganodon cataracta and Alasmidonta undulata are also widespread but less common. Anodonta implicata and Pyganodon cataracta may be expanding because of increased fish passage and stocking. Lampsilis radiata, Ligumia nasuta, Margaritifera margaritifera, and Strophitus undulatus are rare or localized and should be considered high conservation priorities in Rhode Island.
25177080|Published data that describe the distribution and reproductive patterns of bats in New Hampshire are sparse. We examined the distribution and reproductive phenology of bats within Pisgah State Park (the largest state park in New Hampshire) located in the southwestern region of the state. A total of 159 bats was captured during 31 net nights at 29 net sites during the summers of 2004 and 2005. In order of decreasing abundance, the most common species were Myotis lucifugus (little brown myotis), Eptesicus fuscus (big brown bat), and M. septentrionalis (northern myotis). Additionally, a single Lasiurus borealis (eastern red bat) was captured. Approximately equal numbers of adult male and female little brown myotis and northern myotis were observed, while sex ratios of big brown bats were female biased. Pregnant females of each species were observed between mid-May and early June, and parturition occurred during mid- to late June. Captures of juvenile little brown myotis indicate that weaning begins during early July (juveniles of other species were not captured).
27744573|Potamilus alatus (Pink Heelsplitter) is a rare freshwater mussel in the Ottawa River drainage (Ontario/Qubec, Canada), at the northeastern limit of its distribution. There are few historical records, and one old specimen from an uncertain locality. The discovery of the Pink Heelsplitter in the Ottawa River drainage dates from 1863. A few specimens were reported up to 1901, but it was August 2001 before another specimen was found in the Ottawa River, as an empty shell at Upper Duck Island, near Ottawa. From 2001 to 2005, the authors found this freshwater mussel at four localities along the Ottawa River, and two in the tributary South Nation River. Records include 4 living specimens and 12 empty shells, of which 8 were in fresh condition. The Pink Heelsplitter seems to persist sparsely in the Ottawa River, but it may have been extirpated from one of its tributaries (South Nation River) before its discovery due to mortality associated with Dreissena polymorpha (Zebra Mussel).
10.2307/3858373|An existing index of biotic integrity (IBI) for Vermont streams performed poorly in assessing coldwater streams with fewer than five species. A coldwater IBI (CWIBI) for these small streams was subsequently devised that effectively measures the integrity of fish assemblages containing two to four species. Fourteen candidate metrics were tested on eighteen least-disturbed stream sites and eleven degraded sites. Impacts to streams that were assessed included mostly physical habitat degradation with some experiencing acid mine drainage. Metrics were evaluated for sensitivity to impact and redundancy. Six were selected for final inclusion into the CWIBI. In composite, the metrics clearly reflected the widely observed shift from brook trout and slimy sculpin-dominated assemblages in least-degraded streams, to minnow-sucker based assemblages with increasing degradation.
25177120|Stream acidification across the northeastern US impacts fish abundance and fish communities. In this study, we document a fish community shift in the upper mainstem of Hubbard Brook (NH) from the presence of at least three species in the 1960s to the presence of only one species today. Cottus cognatus (Slimy Sculpin) and Rhinichthys atratulus (Blacknose Dace) are no longer present in this system, and we suggest that extirpation occurred during a period of chronic acidification during the early 1970s. Today, Salvelinus fontinalis (Brook Trout) is the only fish species present in the upper reaches of the Hubbard Brook Valley. The current upstream extent of Brook Trout is limited primarily by physical obstructions such as waterfalls or cascades. Acidification may lead to chemical barriers that limit upstream movement during high flow in a few streams. As recovery from acid deposition begins, and as regional climate changes, our observations demonstrate the value of periodic evaluations documenting shifts in the distribution and composition of fish communities in headwaters of the northeastern US.
10.2307/3858273|Early documents and maps, landscape features, soils, climate, fossil pollen and charcoal as evidence of vegetation and fire history, modern plants, and insects were used to evaluate past changes in the pitch pine communities on the Rome Sand Plains of central New York. Pitch pine and ericaceous shrubs became important at this locality ca. 1500 to 1600 A. D. Increased disturbance including Indian-caused fires may have triggered this event. Euro-American logging, land clearance, and fire in the 19th and early 20th centuries helped to maintain existing pine barrens and convert mesophytic deciduous-coniferous forest to pine barrens. Fires associated with brush removal, a railroad that ran through the area, blueberry production, and arson destroyed soil organic horizons and decreased available moisture and nutrients favoring xerophytic over mesophytic plant species. Pine barrens at this locality are reverting to mesophytic deciduous-coniferous forest with abandonment of the railroad and late 20th century fire suppression efforts.
3858423|Bear Oak (Quercus ilicifolia Wang.) presents a unique architecture in which there is a distinct outer set of leaves on the perimeter of the bush and another set of leaves on the inside. In this paper we examine the relationship between plant architecture, leaf-level physiology, and leaf damage patterns by insects. We measured net photosynthesis, stomatal conductance, and leaf water potential in response to different levels of herbivory or leaf-rolling in both outer- and inner-canopy leaves. Leaf-rolling occurred naturally and was mimicked by hand-rolling leaves to different degrees. Net photosynthesis, stomatal conductance, and leaf water potential varied depending upon a combination of leaf position in the crown and degree of rolling, but not herbivory. Outer-canopy leaves had significantly higher rates of net photosynthesis and stomatal conductance, but lower leaf water potentials and leaf areas than inner-canopy leaves. Leaf rolling had an effect upon photosynthesis and stomatal conductance, which varied depending on whether projected areas of rolled leaves or projected areas of the leaves after they had been unrolled were considered. In both canopy layers, using unrolled projected leaf areas, stomatal conductance and net photosynthesis decreased with increasing leaf rolling. In the outer canopy, using projected areas of rolled leaves, photosynthesis decreased while stomatal conductance increased with increasing leaf rolling. In the inner canopy, photosynthesis increased while stomatal conductance was unchanged with increasing leaf rolling. In all cases, leaf water potential increased with increasing leaf rolling. These results suggest (in order of likelihood) that either rolling creates an area of closed stomata (stomatal patchiness) proportional to the amount of rolling, or leaf specific hydraulic conductance increases, or stomata are responding to changes in the boundary layer of the leaf.
25177146|In 2006, we collected two Sorex dispar (Long-tailed Shrew) specimens from MacDonald Pond, NS, Canada, which is a range extension of this elusive species. Trapping data revealed significantly lower numbers of Myodes (= Clethrionomys) gapperi (Red-backed Vole) bycatch than expected based on previous studies. Red-backed Voles are the most common rodent found in Nova Scotia forests. Here we report an apparent population crash of Red-backed Voles in Nova Scotia, along with a closer examination of a Cape Breton Island population.
3858456|Nest success is the most important demographic variable influencing rates of population change of Eastern Wild Turkeys (Meleagris gallopavo silvestris [L.] Vieillot) in the Northeast. Most studies of nest success and survival of turkeys have occurred in forested or agricultural areas and may not be representative of turkey populations occupying suburban environments. Development associated with suburbanization has led to habitat degradation, and it is becoming increasingly important to understand how these land use changes affect the sustainability of Wild Turkey populations. Our objectives were to quantify survival and reproduction of Eastern Wild Turkeys in the suburbanized region of southeastern Connecticut, and to compare these results to studies in forested and agricultural regions of the northeastern United States. Nest success (35%) and mortality during the reproductive period (46%) were at the low and high extremes, respectively, of ranges previously reported in the Northeast. High rates of predation on females and nests resulted in rates of nest success that were lower than rates reported for most neighboring states. Turkey nests in suburban environments may be at increased risk of predation because habitat fragmentation may lead to high densities of nest predators and increased detection of nests.
40664887|The highly variable and strongly sexually dimorphic crane fly Tanyptera dorsalis (Antlered Crane Fly) is reported as a new state record from Michigan. The geographic distribution of the species and its biology are summarized, and a photograph of an adult of each sex is provided.
3858305|We conducted surveys of aquatic habitats during the spring and summer of 1995 in Canaan Valley, WV, to describe the diversity of aquatic habitats in the valley and identify issues that may threaten the viability of aquatic species. We assessed physical habitat and water chemistry of 126 ponds and 82 stream sites, and related habitat characteristics to landscape variables such as geology and terrain. Based on our analyses, we found two issues likely to affect the viability of aquatic populations in the valley. The first issue was acid rain and the extent to which it potentially limits the distribution of aquatic and semi-aquatic species, particularly in headwater portions of the watershed. We estimate that nearly 46%, or 56 kilometers of stream, had pH levels that would not support survival and reproduction of Salvelinuw fontinalis (brook trout), one of the most acid-tolerant fishes in the eastern US. The second issue was the influence of Castor canadensis (beaver) activity. In the Canaan Valley State Park portion of the valley, beaver have transformed 4.7 kilometers of stream (approximately 17% of the total) to pond habitat through their dam building. This has resulted in an increase in pond habitat, a decrease in stream habitat, and a fragmented stream network (i.e., beaver ponds dispersed among stream reaches). In addition, beaver have eliminated an undetermined amount of forested riparian area through their foraging activities. Depending on the perspective, beaver-mediated changes can be viewed as positive or negative. Increases in pond habitat may increase habitat heterogeneity with consequent increases in biological diversity. In contrast, flooding associated with beaver activity may eliminate lowland wetlands and associated species, create barriers to fish dispersal, and possibly contribute to low dissolved oxygen levels in the Blackwater River. We recommend that future management strategies for the wildlife refuge be viewed in the context of these two issues, and that the responses of multiple assemblages be incorporated in the design of refuge management plans.
4130977|Narragansett Bay, RI, is considered to be a relatively well-mixed estuary not subject to extensive seasonal stratification and hypoxia. However, results of surveys of dissolved oxygen (DO) for the upper half of Narragansett Bay on August 15, 2001 and on August 6, 2002 have documented evidence of wide-area intermittent subpycnoclinal hypoxia <tex-math>$(\leq 3\ \text{mg l}^{-1})$</tex-math>. For the August 2001 survey, severe hypoxic to near-anoxic levels were confined to the Providence River, the western side of Greenwich Bay, and a small area of Mount Hope Bay, but hypoxic levels below 2 mg 1<sup>-1</sup> were also experienced on the western side of the Upper Bay in an extensive, shallow oxygen minimum. Hypoxic bottom waters <tex-math>$(\leq 3\ \text{mg l}^{-1})$</tex-math> extended from the Upper Bay into the upper West Passage. Hypoxic waters covered approximately 66 km<sup>2</sup> (36%) of the survey area for August 15, 2001. A more extensive and severe hypoxic event occurred during the August 2002 survey, when near-bottom waters of the entire Providence River and a large area of the Upper Bay and upper East Passage were severely hypoxic to near-anoxic, while other parts of the Upper Bay, upper East Passage and upper West Passage were hypoxic at depths greater than 5 m. Limited data for Mount Hope Bay in August 2002 documented small hypoxic areas of the southern end of that subembayment. The total hypoxic area for August 6, 2002 was approximately 93 km<sup>2</sup> (65%) of the total area surveyed. Decreased estuarine circulation due to a severe drought may have contributed to the wider extent of hypoxic and near-anoxic waters in large areas of the upper half of Narragansett Bay recorded in the August 6, 2002 survey as compared with the August 15, 2001 survey. Results of the oxygen surveys affirm sediment profile camera work and limited benthic studies that previously suggested parts of the Mid Bay have become subject to increased organic loading impacts. These impacts can take place even under drought conditions, when only point source nutrients are the major contributors to nutrient loadings entering the upper half of Narragansett Bay.
4130992|The return of Castor canadensis (beaver) to areas of their former range has restored a natural disturbance regime to wetland landscapes in North America. We used aerial photographs to study wetland creation and modification by beaver in Acadia National Park, ME, during a period of beaver population expansion (1944-1997). We quantified the change in the number of available ponded wetlands in the landscape during the study period and documented an 89% increase in ponded wetlands between 1944 and 1997. Spatial and temporal patterns of beaver colonization and changes in wetland vegetation and hydrology were recorded at six time periods (1944, 1953, 1970, 1979, 1985, and 1997) for 33 beaver-created wetlands for which we had current amphibian assemblage data. Beaver colonization generally converted forested wetlands and riparian areas to open water and emergent wetlands, resulting in significant increases in the percentage of open water and emergent wetland habitat and a decrease in the percentage of forested wetland area at the study sites. Temporal colonization of beaver wetlands initially favored large sites occurring lower in the watersheds; sites that were impounded later were generally smaller, higher in the watershed, and more likely to be abandoned by the end of our study. Our results suggest that beaver have not only increased the number of available breeding sites in the landscape for pond-breeding amphibians, but also the resulting mosaic of active and abandoned beaver wetlands is likely to provide suitable breeding habitat for a diversity of species.
41495822|This study evaluated relationships between the serpentine soil from a waste-rock dump of the abandoned Libiola sulphide mine (NW Italy) and its pioneer vegetation. We identified the tolerance of various species to environmental conditions and evaluated physical or chemical factors that influenced the first plants to colonize this stressful environment. Thirteen sampling sites were identified in the rock dump from characterization of surface or near-surface oxidation zone and vegetation type. Sampling sites were analyzed for slope, pH, mineralogy, soil chemistry, floristic composition, and the percent coverage of each species. In all the plots, species richness and vegetation cover were extremely low. The flora showed an acidophilous character.
41495840|The floristic quality index is a widely used method for ecological condition assessments in the United States. The foundation of the index is the conservatism concept, which estimates a species' ecological sensitivity or propensity to occur in areas least altered by humans. Plant species are assigned coefficients of conservatism (CoC) where ruderal and exotic species receive the lowest scores, competitors and matrix species intermediate scores, and remnant-dependent species the highest scores. The method has spread to over half of the United States, but New York and New England still lack CoC coverage. With funding from the Environmental Protection Agency and using nine of the region's most experienced botanists, an effort was undertaken to select CoC for the complete vascular flora of each New England state and New York State. Frequency distributions and rank correlations of CoC varied widely among states, except that each flora contained a large proportion of exotic species. Few taxa were scored with low confidence, although CoC at the extreme ends of the scale tended to be scored with higher confidence than more intermediate CoC. Differences in mean CoC and other summary measures for two botanists working independently on the same state indicate estimator bias in the ranking process, and calls for additional expert opinions, more careful instruction, and calibration of botanists, or the use of objective scoring methods.
41684248|Barbour's Pond is a 4.45-ha pond located in Garrett Mountain Reservation in Passaic County in northern New Jersey, one of the most densely populated regions in the United States. Despite its small size and surrounding urban sprawl, the shallow waters of this pond hold 18 species of molluscs. Monthly samples from March 2004 through March 2006 found the highest diversity in December 2004, and in January, June, and July 2005. Additional samples were taken in April 2007 and May 2010 to spot-check relative diversity years after the original sampling period. Total molluscan abundance was greatest in July and November 2004, possibly reflecting new late spring and autumn cohorts. Univariate statistics demonstrate that this pond has a temporally stable and diverse malacofauna. Analysis, of basic environmental parameters including temperature and pH, however, showed little correlation with molluscan diversity over time, underscoring the stable yet complex nature of biodiversity of this small urban pond.
27744582|Alces americanus (Moose) are relatively new to Labrador, having only colonized the area in the late 1940s, and little is known about this population. We conducted large-scale aerial surveys for Moose in a 122,000-km2 area during winter 2000 and in a 29,900-km2 area in winter 2001. Moose densities were low in each area (1.63.0 Moose per 100 km2). Bull:cow ratios were nearly even and calf:cow ratios were relatively high, indicative of a population exposed to little hunting or predation pressure. Twinning rates were low, suggesting low range productivity. Moose used riparian areas and hardwood stands in higher proportion than their availability in winter (P &lt; 0.05). Open habitats (conifer-lichen woodlands, bogs and fens, burned forest, and barren areas) were used in lower proportion than their availability. These data may provide the basis for developing habitat suitability maps for Moose in late winter across central Labrador.
10.2307/3858446|Hooded seals (Cystophora cristata) whelp on the North Atlantic pack ice in early spring and then historically distribute as far south as Nova Scotia. Recent reports document increased sightings in the northern Gulf of Maine. To determine the number of sightings in the southern Gulf of Maine, we reviewed records of stranded hooded seals between Kittery and Rockland, Maine, for 1997-1999 and found 84 confirmed reports. The 1998 totals (43), exceeded those in 1997 (20) or 1999 (21). Most sightings occurred during the winter months, with six in the summer/fall of 1999. Thus, hooded seals are sighted in substantial numbers in both the southern and northern Gulf of Maine.
40664841|Palaemon macrodactylus (Oriental Shrimp), native to estuarine waters of Southeast Asia, has been reported outside of its native range. The spreading of this species to new regions has been well documented, and its disjunct distribution strongly speaks for its transport being attributed to ballast water. In this paper, we report the first record of P. macrodactylus from the eastern coast of the United States and in the estuarine system of New York City (NYC). While this animal has been reported to have crossed the Pacific, and has been found in the eastern Atlantic along the coasts of Spain, France, Germany, and the British Isles, and in the southwestern Atlantic off the coast of Argentina, it has not been previously sighted in the northwest Atlantic. Our preliminary life-history data indicate that the size range for the 98 adult individuals in the 2001 collection was from 2.05 to 5.05 cm, and exhibited a one-to-one sex ratio. The finding of gravid females among these shrimp collected from 2001-2002 and again in 2008 indicates that the oriental shrimp populations in the coastal waters of NYC have become established, and show reproductive activity from May through October. Further studies are required to evaluate whether P. macrodactylus poses a threat to native aquatic organisms in this region.
41495807|Compartmentation of metals in specific tissues, cells, and subcellular compartments is considered a metal-tolerance mechanism in metal hyperaccumulator plants. In this study, we investigated the accumulation of Ni in the trichomes of a serpentine endemic Ni hyperaccumulator plant, Alyssum inflatum, native to western Iran. Elemental analysis of plants from their natural habitat showed that the Ni concentration of trichomes was not higher than in the shoot, suggesting that Ni does not preferentially accumulate in trichomes. Treatment of plants by adding different concentrations of Ni to the growth medium showed that staining of trichomes with dimethylglyoxime (a specific stain for Ni) increased as concentrations of external Ni increased. Accumulation occurred in the base of trichomes and, by increasing the concentration of Ni, accumulation extended to the rays and cell walls. The results showed that trichomes can accumulate high concentrations of Ni and that Ni accumulation can be under the control of Ni concentration in the shoot.
60225654| We characterized the biomass and productivity of relatively short-lived red and green algae at seven intertidal sites in Cobscook Bay during the summers of 1995 and 1996 in coves (low flow, n = 4) and headlands (high flow, n = 3) across two to three tidal levels. We chose Palmaria palmata (pseudoperennial) as a proxy for red algae and Ulva lactuca and Enteromorpha spp. ("r" species) as surrogates for green algae. We provide ancillary data on temperature, salinity, nutrients, and tissue nutrients. Also, we examined nutrient relationships in the Bay, near and away from a salmon farm. Estimates of productivity were based on biomass. The minimum estimate of net productivity for a site was based on the highest biomass value obtained on any one date over the summer sampling period. The maximum estimate of productivity was based on minimum productivity multiplied by frond generation times. Generally, maximum biomass values for both groups occurred in the low intertidal. Mean ( 95% CI) maximum biomass values for foliose green algae was 362.1  246.3 g dry wt m<sup>-2</sup> (range = 4.5 to 1335.6 g dry wt m<sup>-2</sup>yr<sup>-1</sup>). With one exception, highest values (349 to 988 g dry wt <tex-math>$\text{m}^{-2}\text{day}^{-1}$</tex-math>), were observed at sites adjacent to a salmon farm and were dominated by foliose forms (Ulva and Enteromorpha). Sites located away from the salmon farms were dominated by filamentous forms (Cladophora and Rhizoclonium). We estimate that total (areal) production by foliose green algae in Cobscook Bay is 3.0  10<sup>9</sup> g dry wt yr<sup>-1</sup> or 9.0  <tex-math>$10^{8}\text{g C yr}^{-1}$</tex-math>. Mean maximum biomass for Palmaria was 564.2  324.1 g dry wt m<sup>-2</sup>, or 169.4 g C m<sup>-2</sup>. Productivity estimates for Palmaria were variable, and upper estimates ranged from 240 to 830 g dry wt m<sup>-2</sup>yr<sup>-1</sup>. Total areal productivity for red algae is estimated at 1.2  10<sup>9</sup> g dry wt yr<sup>-1</sup>, or 3.6  <tex-math>$10^{8}\text{g C yr}^{-1}$</tex-math>. These algae are contributing large amounts of carbon to the Bay's ecosystem, which appear to be cycled through grazer and detrital pathways within the Bay. 
41810152|To maximize reproductive success, parents may differentially invest in sons and daughters, i.e., sex-biased parental investment. Preferential provisioning behavior has been reported in one population o Sialia sialis (Eastern Bluebird) and attributed to local resource competition. We studied the provisioning behavior of Eastern Bluebirds in Madison County, KY in 2004. We experimentally manipulated brood sex ratios in 24 bluebird nests, creating female-biased (n = 8), male-biased (n = 5), and control (n = 11) nests. Following manipulation, nests were videotaped to record adult provisioning behavior. Brood sex ratio had no effect on the provisioning behavior of either male or female Eastern Bluebirds. Similarly, we found no effect of brood sex ratio on the provisioning rates of either male or female bluebirds for control broods that naturally differed in number of male and female nestlings (n = 9; 5 male-biased and 4 female-biased). Our results contrast with those of a previous study that found that male Eastern Bluebirds fed nestling males less than nestling females, possibly because sons were more likely to compete with them for resources in the future. However, local resource competition seems unlikely because Eastern Bluebirds exhibit low rates of philopatry. Given these conflicting results, additional study is needed to determine if factors such as latitude, food availability, or availability of other resources might influence the provisioning behavior of male Eastern Bluebirds.
4130728|Humboldt and the Ocean. A Synopsis of his Contributions to Marine Sciences. During his "Journey to the Equinoctial Regions of the New Continent" about 200 years ago, Alexander von Humboldt (1769-1859) made many oceanographic observations in the North Atlantic and Eastern Pacific Ocean. His main interest was the interrelation between climate and global ocean circulation, which is still one of the major topics in current marine research. Ever since, in 1790, he first saw the open ocean at the North Sea coast, when he, in the company of Georg Forster embarked on his trip to England, Humboldt had a longing for the ocean, especially the Pacific, and a strong interest in matters relating to oceanography. Unfortunately his marine texts are scattered over his major publications, many notes have never been published. Humboldt did not finish his decade-long work on "Oceanica," a synopsis of his marine natural history ideas. Meanwhile it is generally accepted that Humboldt, although not an oceanographer in the modern meaning of the word, certainly belongs to the list of pioneers of marine sciences. Geographers and oceanographers of Kiel University, have especially covered Humboldts lasting marine legacy in the last century. His innovative and classical concepts of climate-driven thermohaline ocean circulation are background for some current international marine research projects.
41684251|The effect of Odocoileus virginianus (White-tailed Deer) on Lupinus perennis (Sundial Lupine) was quantified for a site in Worcester County, MD. The reproductive output of Lupine protected by deer exclosures was compared with Lupine that received no protection from deer. Lupine in the exclosures had a higher likelihood of producing seed pods and produced a greater number of seed pods per inflorescence. The implications of these results on Callophrys irus (Frosted Elfins) are discussed.
60225657|Cobscook Bay, a boreal, macrotidal estuary in the northeastern Gulf of Maine is noted for its species richness and has been the site of extensive natural history investigations. In spite of this level of investigative activity, no quantitative survey of the subtidal, macroinvertebrate communities exist. Here we present the results of a 1975 benthic grab survey of outer Cobscook Bay prior to recent salmon aquaculture and port development. The limited 11-station survey resulted in the identification of 172 taxa. Densities ranged from 870 to 12,970 m<sup>-2</sup>. Multivariate and qualitative analyses clearly dissected the station set into sandy cove stations and coarse sediment channel stations. Cove stations were characterized by burrowing and tube-dwelling infauna, while channel station fauna was epifaunal. Community distribution is controlled by strong tidal currents and resulting sharp geological discontinuities. Because 70% of the Bay bottom is floored by gravel, the epifaunal community characterizing the channel stations may be the most representative of the Bay. The grab sampler certainly underestimated large filter feeders that may be important in the nutrient budget of the Bay. Future surveys need to be more extensive and use a combination of sampling methods to quantitatively measure all components of the community.
10.2307/3858676|We used fecal analysis to describe the diet of Eptesicus fuscus in Pennsylvania and western Maryland. We examined spatial variation in diet composition among three populations and temporal variation within a maternity colony. Temporal patterns of prey use were compared with similar data collected previously from a maternity colony in Indiana. Overall, Coleoptera (58-82%), especially Scarabaeidae (14-31%), were the dominant prey items. Hemiptera, primarily Acrosternum hilare (5-19%), were also major prey, and Tettigoniidae (not previously reported) were prey of two populations (6%, 17%). Significant spatial and temporal variation existed in diet composition among populations and use of major prey types, respectively. Comparison of temporal data collected in this study and in Indiana indicated a nearly identical pattern in the use of Scarabaeidae. These insects are abundant in the spring, and the data suggest widespread specialization on Scarabaeidae in April and May. Several insects preyed on by E. fuscus in this study are serious agricultural pests.
4131001|Progeny of a wild female of Hyalophora cecropia (Linnaeus) (Lepidoptera: Saturniidae) were reared and appear to be natural hybrids resulting from a mating with Hyalophora columbia (Smith).
10.2307/3858435|We surveyed collections and computerized data bases in the Shippensburg University Vertebrate Museum and the Carnegie Museum of Natural History's Section of Mammals to document noteworthy distributional records for ten species of small mammals of special concern or special scientific interest collected in Pennsylvania. These records are principally from the past 25 years. All records contained herein are documented by voucher specimens in the two museums surveyed. The ten species are: rock shrew (Sorex dispar), pygmy shrew (S. hoyi), water shrew (S. palustris), least shrew (Cryptotis parva), small-footed myotis (Myotis leibii), northern Myotis (M. septentrionalis), silver-haired bat (Lasionycteris noctivagans), northern flying squirrel (Glaucomys sabrinus), rock vole (Microtus chrotorrhinus), and southern bog lemming (Synaptomys cooperi). The number of new voucher specimens ranged from three in Cryptotis parva to 233 in Sorex hoyi. The number of new county records ranged from zero in M. leibii and G. sabrinus to 10 each in S. dispar and S. hoyi.
40959921|Levels of environmental protection vary among watersheds, and assessing how well conservation efforts protect threatened faunal groups is a critical need for management. Almost the entire 114 km of the Chagrin River is designated as scenic by the state of Ohio, which implies good water quality and community efforts to maintain and improve water resource integrity. We examined mussel diversity and abundance across 30 sites. The mussels present remained largely restricted to the upper reaches. One species, Lampsilis radiata luteola, dominated the assemblage of the upper Chagrin, which now includes only six additional species, none of which are very abundant: Lasmigona costata, Lasmigona compressa, Pyganodon grandis, Strophitus undulatus, Utterbackia imbecillis, and Anodontoides ferussacianus. One additional species, Lampsilis cardium, was the only species found living in the lower Chagrin. Applying the Shannon index of diversity indicated that the Chagrin River has a more depauperate fauna than neighboring watersheds, and therefore, the current passive conservation efforts may be insufficient to protect these small isolated populations of remaining species.
3858335|Pylodictis olivaris (flathead catfish) is a large, obligate carnivore native to drainages of the central United States that has been introduced widely beyond its native range. We report on the introduction of flathead catfish into the Delaware and Susquehanna River drainages, which represents the northernmost occurrences among Atlantic drainages. In the Delaware Basin, flathead catfish have been found in the Schuylkill River and the mainstem of the Delaware River. Recent sampling activities in the Schuylkill River suggest successful reproduction and establishment of a viable population there. In the Susquehanna basin, the fish has been found in the lower and central portion of the river mainstem. As in the Delaware Basin, recent sampling indicates that reproduction is occurring in the Susquehanna River. The introduction of this species has the potential to adversely affect ongoing anadromous fish restoration programs and native fish conservation efforts in the Delaware and Susquehanna basins. A cooperative effort will be required to mitigate the effects of this introduction.
3858691|Lizard behavior can be influenced by ultimate forces such as adaptation and phylogeny, and proximate forces such as temperature and rainfall. Italian wall lizards (Podarcis sicula campestris) were successfully introduced into two locations in the USA, both at latitudes similar to their probable sources in Italy. Behavioral differences between native and introduced populations are likely due to proximate forces. From 1999-2000, we documented the seasonal and diel behavior of wall lizards in New York. We observed a bimodal activity pattern during the summer and a unimodal activity pattern in spring and fall, which has been reported for native populations in Italy. Unlike Italian populations, New York lizards were completely inactive during winter months, which is probably due to the much lower minimum winter temperatures in New York.
41684255|Nekton tidal migration patterns were examined in oligo-mesohaline intertidal salt marsh creeks using underwater video observations collected throughout multiple tidal cycles (i.e., flood-ebb) during summer 2005-2006. Underwater video observations indicated that species composition and abundances varied with tide stage. Three intertidal salt marsh species (Fundulus heteroclitus, Morone americana, Menidia menidia) were the most abundant species observed. In general, resident species were most abundant in early flood and late ebb tide stages, whereas transient species were most abundant around slack high tide. F heteroclitus displayed a consistent symmetrical tidal migration pattern and primarily occurred in early flood and late ebb tide stages. M. americana occurred throughout flood and high tides, but were largely absent from intertidal creeks during ebb tide. M. menidia was observed during all tide stages, but displayed no distinct migration patterns. The results of this study highlight the advantages and disadvantages of using underwater video for examining small-scale tidal migrations of nekton in intertidal salt marsh creeks.
4499917|Xanthoria parietina, a conspicuous orange foliose lichen, has been doubtfully recorded as part of the Ontario lichen flora because the previous documented reports were very old (1868 and 1917) and it had never been reported since. Here, we document a number of new sightings, all in southern Ontario. A previous report of this lichen from "Longulac" that was interpreted as Long Lake in Frontenac County is corrected to Longlac in the Thunder Bay District, and the specimen proved to be Xanthomendoza hasseana. A search for the lichen around Belleville, one of the original localities, proved fruitless. It is still not clear whether the new sightings of Xanthoria parietina represent a reintroduction of this coastal species to the inland sites, or whether the lichen has persisted in southern Ontario for almost 140 years, but was never reported. Substrate enrichment (eutrophication due to agricultural activity) in the region is one explanation for the spread of the lichen in southern Ontario.
41315950|Establishment of many invasive species, including the Eurasian thistles Carduus nutans and C. acanthoides, is believed to be promoted by disturbance. Prior research suggests that emergence and early survival of these two weeds is far higher on bare ground than in areas with interspecific competition, but this relationship has not been well quantified. We studied the effects of microsite size and watering regime on the emergence and early survival of these invasive thistles. Microsite competition was found to significantly negatively affect successful emergence and first-month survivorship of both species, while additional water was not found to significantly increase seedling emergence. These findings suggest that adequate bare ground is an important predictor of successful thistle establishment, and thus that conservation practices aimed at reducing available microsites should help to limit the invasion of these two species.
41684254|The prevalence of parasite infections in Littorina littorea (Common Periwinkle) was examined at 16 rocky intertidal sites along the New Hampshire coastline over three summers (2006 to 2008). We sampled over a relatively small spatial scale (21 km) and expected that the prevalence of infections in L. littorea would be similar between sites over this sampling area. In total, 1983 snails were collected from areas at mean low water during spring tides. Snail size (mm), gender, and type of parasitic infection were noted for all snails. Eleven percent of snails collected were infected with rediae and cercariae of the trematodes Cryptocotyle lingua or Cercara parvicaudata; one snail had a double infection of both trematodes. The prevalence of infection at sites ranged from 1.9% to 30.1%. At all sites, female snails outnumbered male snails, and a greater proportion of females were infected than males. Large snails were more likely to be infected with trematodes at 3 sites, while a higher level of infection was found in small snails at 1 site. Snails at wave-protected sites were more likely to be infected than snails at wave-exposed sites. No relationship was found between the number of gulls at a site and the prevalence of infection. Although temporal variation in levels of prevalence in parasitic infections may explain some of our site-to-site differences, our data show large spatial variation of parasite prevalence in L. littorea over a minimum distance of 0.5 km and provide a foundation to test hypotheses concerning the susceptibility of female and immature (small) snails to infection.
4499933| We completed laboratory-feeding studies that demonstrated preference of the headwater stream fishes Gambusia holbrooki (Mosquitofish) and Clinostomus funduloides (Rosyside Dace) for smaller Gammarus pseudolimnaeus (amphipods) over larger ones. We also submerged oak leaf-litter bags in sections of streams with and without these fish predators. After three weeks, the mean number  s.e. of amphipods per litter bag in streams with fish was significantly lower (289  50 vs. 978  122) and the average size of amphipods was significantly larger (13.9  0.1 mg vs. 8.1  0.1 mg), relative to streams without fish. The quantity and quality of leaf litter, however, were not significantly different. Top-down predation may have altered the population structure of stream-dwelling amphipods, but did not change leaf decomposition over the time of the study. 
41429419|Dams fragment watersheds and prevent anadromous fishes from reaching historic spawning habitat. Sedgeunkedunk Stream, a small tributary to the Penobscot River (Maine), has been the focus of efforts to reestablish marine-freshwater connectivity and restore anadromous fishes via the removal of two barriers to fish migration. Currently, Petromyzon marinus (Sea Lamprey) is the only anadromous fish known to spawn successfully in the stream downstream of the lowermost dam. Here, we describe the distribution and abundance of a spawning population of Sea Lamprey in Sedgeunkedunk Stream, prior to and in anticipation of habitat increase after the completion of one barrier removal. In 2008, we estimated the abundance of Sea Lamprey and its nests using daily stream surveys and an open-population mark-recapture model. We captured 47 Sea Lamprey and implanted each with a PIT tag so that we could track movements and nest associations of individual fish. The spawning migration began on 18 June, and the last living individual was observed on 27 June. We located 31 nests, distributed from head-of-tide to the lowermost dam; no spawners or nests were observed in the tidally influenced zone or upstream of this dam. Mean longevity in the stream and the number of nests attended were correlated with arrival date; early migrants were alive longer and attended more nests than later migrants. Males were more likely to be observed away from a nest, or attending three or more nests, than were females, which attended usually one or two nests. We observed a negative association between nest abundance and substrate cover by fine sediment. Based on their observed movements in the system, and the extent of their habitat use, we anticipate that spawning Sea Lamprey will recolonize formerly inaccessible habitat after dam removals.
3858629|To provide a method for estimating fish size from fish otoliths for forensic applications or other predictive uses, morphometric measurements were obtained from three centrarchid fishes (pumpkinseed [Lepomis gibbosus], rock bass [Ambloplites rupestris], and smallmouth bass [Micropterus dolomieu]), two percids (yellow perch [Perca flavescens] and walleye [Stizostedion vitreum]), and one clupeid (alewife [Alosa pseudoharengus]) from the eastern basin of Lake Ontario. These species are the principal or economically important prey of Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus), whose diet can be determined from regurgitated digestive pellets containing fish otoliths. A fuller understanding of the ecosystem roles of cormorants requires estimation of prey-fish size, obtainable from regressions of otolith length on fish length. Up to 100 fish of each species were collected from eastern Lake Ontario and measured for total length and otolith length. Least-squares regressions of otolith length on fish length were calculated for all species, covering life-stage ranges of immature fish to large adults near maximum known size. The regressions with 95% confidence intervals may be applicable outside the Lake Ontario ecosystem if used with caution.
41315969|We document use of surge tunnels at an abandoned quarry as hibernacula for bats and suggest that other such tunnels may be easily modified to create new hibernacula. Surge tunnels in Alpena County, MI, made possible a 230-km range extension for Perimyotis subflavus (Eastern Pipistrelle).
10.2307/3858585|Forest decline is viewed here as a subtle change that develops slowly and is difficult to distinguish from natural variation. This paper focuses on the approaches and data needed to understand causes of decline in complex systems. The challenge is to balance apparent explanations derived from parts of systems (reductionist view) against understanding when all the parts function together (integrative view). As an example, I present data from studies of a gradient in acidic deposition from southern Illinois to southern Ohio. The 50-year cumulative deposition of sulfate and nitrate ions increased eastward, with a total difference at the two ends of the gradient on the order of 4.0 equivalents/m<sup>2</sup>. The surface soils showed a change of 0.6 pH units, consistent with the acid inputs. The Ca:Al ratio, at 0.13 in Ohio, was much lower than at the Illinois site (0.35), consistent with the differences in pH. Tree death was significantly higher during the 1978-87 decade, in comparison to the previous decade, despite little difference in weather. Tree biomass increment studies showed gross growth during the 1968-77 decade of about 50  10<sup>6</sup> g/ha, while growth during the 1978-87 decade ranged from a negative 32.7  10<sup>6</sup> g/ha (in Ohio) to positive values in Indiana and Illinois. Soil faunal populations are lower in the high-dose sites by 30 to 95 percent, and species diversity is 50 to 90 percent lower depending on the genus or family. Soil earthworm population modeling projects normal population densities at a pH 4.8 and no individuals at pH 4.0, explaining the differences in density observed along the gradient in the field. Leaf decomposition data showed differences in early decomposition rates, with the lowest pH site (with the fewest soil animals) losing initial biomass most rapidly, followed later by a very slow rate of reduction for the remaining biomass. This result may explain the 10-fold greater observed Ao depth in Ohio compared with Illinois. The results, taken as a whole, illustrate scientific methods that go beyond the prevailing reductionist approach and provide evidence that the decline is pollutant-induced and consistent spatially, temporally, and functionally.
43287095|Spatial and temporal dynamics of shore zone fish and Callinectes sapidus (Blue Crab) densities in tidal creeks of the Delaware Coastal Bays were examined during the spring/summer nursery period and in the winter of 2004, 2005, and early 2006 to identify underlying abiotic conditions driving the structure of species assemblages. Distinct spring/summer species assemblages were identified within separate tidal creeks, correlated with dissolved oxygen range. Differences were driven by the dominance of hypoxia-tolerant species in the intensely developed White Creek watershed and hypoxia-sensitive species in the less-developed Miller Creek watershed. In winter, species assemblages were somewhat homogenized and were less influenced by abiotic conditions. Results of this study indicate that the fish and Blue Crab assemblage in the shore zone of tidal creeks in the Delaware Coastal Bays is affected primarily by location-specific influences, such as anthropogenic alteration and associated hypoxia, particularly in the spring and summer.
43287103|The success of annual migrations for songbirds is greatly affected by habitat quality at stopover sites, particularly in relation to food needed for rapid refueling. The abundance and nutritional quality of important food resources may be linked to the presence of deciduous shrub species that provide seasonal fruits in the fall and support insects in the spring. The objective of this study was to determine whether migrating songbirds benefit from resources provided by native or invasive fruit-bearing shrubs found at 2 birdbanding stations in Rochester, NY. We conducted nutritional analyses (energy density, fat content, total soluble solids) on the fruits of common shrub species at the study sites, monitored removal of the fall fruits of focal native and invasive shrub species in the field, and measured the abundance of midgesa common insect resource for migrating songbirdssupported by the focal shrub species in the spring. The highest fat content and energy densities were found in fruits of native shrubs, ranging from 6.57 to 48.72% fat and 18.83 to 28.68 kJ/g of energy. All invasive fruits had 0.99% fat and 17.17 kJ/g of energy. We also found a significant positive correlation between fat and energy content of the fruits. Native dogwood fruits were consumed by migrating songbirds at higher rates than invasive fruits over the fall migration period. However, there was no clear pattern of midge abundance between native and invasive shrub species during the spring migration period. Our results suggest that fruits of native shrubs are of greater nutritional value to migrating songbirds than the fruits of invasive shrubs during fall migration, which is supported by the higher removal rates by songbirds of native dogwood fruits than fruits of the 4 other invasive fruit species. This finding suggests that removal of invasive fruit-bearing shrubs or plants will not negatively impact migrating birds when high-quality native fruit-bearing shrubs are available. However, additional study on the relative value of these shrubs in the spring and over multiple seasons is needed to provide insight into their overall value for birds during annual migrations.
10.2307/3858645|Soils, vegetation, fossil pollen and charcoal, disturbance history, early documents and maps, and insects were used to interpret past changes in the central Suffolk County, Long Island, New York pine barrens. Before Euro-American settlement pitch pine-oak-heath woodland, pitch pine-scrub oak barrens, and dwarf pine plains probably covered portions of the broad outwash plain south of the Ronkonkoma Moraine. These communities would have occurred on deep, coarse-textured, excessively drained, nutrient-impoverished, acidic, fire-prone sandy soils. Logging, land clearance, and repeated human-caused fires promoted the expansion of barrens vegetation through much of central Suffolk County during the 17th-19th centuries. Pitch pine became established on the disturbed loamy, sandy, and gravelly soils. Scrub oak sprouted profusely on these soils in response to repeated burning of the undergrowth. The seed for this expansion dispersed from trees and shrubs growing in adjacent oak-pitch pine and pitch pine-oak woodlands. With 20th century fire suppression, pine barrens reverted to oak-hardwood forests in northcentral Suffolk County and oak-pine and pine-oak forests in southcentral Suffolk County. Pine barrens persisted in sections of eastcentral and southcentral Suffolk County in response to periodic burning.
25177118|The diet of larval Semotilus atromaculatus (Creek Chubs) was examined in fish collected from an urbanized stream with a limited food base. Chironomids comprised nearly 90% of food items. They appeared in the gut of early larvae and continued to be the main food source as size increased; cladocerans were the second most abundant food item. Both average and maximum prey size were examined. Overall, average prey size increases significantly with standard length (SL). Maximum prey size is gape-limited twice, from the early to mid-mesolarval stage and again in the late mesolarval stage. Significant differences were observed in the maximum size of chironomids ingested among fish of four size ranges, &lt;8.0 mm SL, 8.0-9.6 mm SL, 9.7-14.1 mm SL, and &gt;14.1 mm SL, indicating maximum prey size increases rapidly at 8.0 mm SL, 9.6 mm SL, and again at 14.1 mm SL, yet maximum prey size within each group remains constant. The degree of cranial ossification and fin development at these break points was examined with cleared and double-stained specimens. For fishes &lt;8.0 mm SL, ossification is just commencing, and maximum prey size is gape limited. At 9.6 mm SL, ossification appeared nearly complete in the caudal fin and in key bones involved in food capture and processing. There was no obvious correlation between ossification of the skeleton and the third break point at 14.1 mm SL. The results from this study suggest that ossification of feeding apparatus and caudal fin may play an important role in the ability of Creek Chubs to capture larger prey in the mesolarval stage at about 9.6 mm SL, but other factors likely account for the increase in prey size at about 14 mm SL.
43288173|I watched blow fly (Diptera: Calliphoridae) larvae in western Maine that had consumed six animal carcasses so that I could identify patterns relating to when, how, and why they left the carcasses. The blow fly larvae stayed under the carcasses on hot, dry days, and then left them on rainy nights, traveling in random directions. Following several rainless days, the larvae left the carcasses at dawn on days with heavy dew and proceeded in a single 1-2-cm-wide column directly toward the rising sun. Species composition of one larvae column was nearly all or exclusively Phormia regina.
41315939|Currently there is little known about day-roosts used by Myotis leibii (Eastern Small-footed Myotis) in the Central Appalachians. To provide insights on this species' day-roosting habits, we successfully radiotracked 5 lactating females and 5 non-reproductive males to 57 day-roosts during June and July 2008. Eastern Small-footed Myotis used ground-level rock roosts in talus slopes and rock fields (n = 53), and roosts in vertical cliff faces (n = 4). Ground-level roosts had low canopy cover (males: x = 14.1  2.1 [SE] %, females: x = 19.6  3.1%), but were located close to vegetation (males: x = 3.6  0.4 m, females: x = 4.8  0.8 m). Males switched roosts every 1.1  0.04 days, traveled 41.2  7.8 m between consecutive roosts, and roosted 415  49.0 m from capture locations. Females switched roosts every 1.1  0.06 days, traveled 66.5  14.6 m between consecutive roosts, and roosted 368  24.0 m from capture locations. Ground-level roosts used by females were closer to ephemeral water sources (x = 226  31.2 m, n = 25) than those used by males (x = 458  16.7 m, n = 28; W= 401, P < 0.01). These data illustrate the importance of rock habitat with high solar exposure near protective cover and water in day-roost selection by Eastern Small-footed Myotis.
3858312|The objectives of this project were to: assess the presence of aquatic macrophyte species assemblages, associations, and/or communities; assess the distribution of Cabomba caroliniana (fanwort) and other macrophytes with water depth; and analyze the spatial distribution of fanwort and other macrophytes using a Geographical Information System (GIS). The study site was a shallow, eutrophic lake in North Reading, MA. Macrophytes were sampled along 36 transects located across the littoral zone. Ordination analysis showed some strong macrophyte associations and the presence of four partially distinct communities. However, the two most abundant species at the site, Cabomba and an aquatic moss (Drepanocladus sp.) had both limited associations with other species and were strongly segregated from one another. Our results show that spatial and distributional analyses can be coupled with macrophyte composition data to provide robust assessments of macrophyte species patterns. These techniques are especially valuable when assessing the extent and influence of non-native, invasive macrophyte species.
10.2307/3858574|Differences in lichen presence and abundance in natural and managed coniferous forests of Nova Scotia were studied in thirty stands categorized as 1) harvested and thinned, 2) harvested and unthinned, and 3) naturally disturbed. The frequency of cover of thirty-four lichen taxa was assessed and analysed to examine the effects of forest management history. Nine taxa had significantly greater abundance and two taxa only occurred in old growth forests compared to younger stages. Twenty taxa had significantly greater abundance and five taxa only occurred in natural forests compared to managed forests. The abundance and habitat of each taxon is discussed. Multiple linear regression was used to determine the forest structural features that best explained the abundance of each lichen taxon. Tree age, remnant trees, crown closure, tree volume, and tree spacing were structural features that most consistently influenced lichen abundance.
10.2307/3858488|Seedlings (2-0 bare root) of Japanese larch (Larix leptolepis), white pine (Pinus strobus), and bear oak (Quercus ilicifolia) were partially defoliated by clipping half of each leaf per plant. Control plants were not clipped. Photosynthesis, water potential, leaf nitrogen concentration, leaf mass, and total mass were measured one week and nine weeks after treatment. Compensatory responses varied by species and timing. Defoliated Japanese larch had increased photosynthesis rates and foliar nitrogen concentration relative to control plants one week after treatment. Total biomass was also increased relative to controls by the end of the experiment. Defoliated pine seedlings had increased leaf mass and total biomass relative to controls by the end of the experiment. Defoliated oak seedlings showed no compensatory responses. Leaf lifespan did not appear to be a determinant of response amount or type. Instead, we suggest that degree of allocation of resources to aboveground growth, as indicated by root-to-shoot ratio, may be related to degree of compensation to partial defoliation.
10.2307/3858407|Huge oyster shell heaps along the banks of the Damariscotta River were accumulated by North American Indians prior to the arrival of Europeans. The presence of the oysters and their eventual demise reflects the history of sea-level rise and attendant changes in the river. Archaeology helps to fix the date of salt water incursion into the river above Newcastle and Damariscotta and offers an hypothesis for the extirpation of oysters from the river.
10.2307/3858553|Wheeler Marsh in Milford, Connecticut provides habitat for diamondback terrapins (Malaclemys terrapin), a unique estuarine turtle. To assess potential prey availability, the distribution and abundances of marsh snails (Melampus bidentatus), mud snails (Ilyanassa obsoleta), marsh mussels (Geukensia demissa), and fiddler crabs (Uca spp.) were studied in several sub-habitats (marsh surface, marsh edge, creek bank, and mudflats) of five tidal creeks. Almost all terrapins have been found in one section of the marsh, Turtle Creek, where all four prey species were present in large numbers. However, high numbers of some prey were found in other sections of the marsh as well, suggesting that resource availability may not be the primary determinant of terrapin distribution. The physical structure, plant density, and tidal amplitudes of salt marsh creeks may also be important determinants of terrapin distribution via their influence on resource accessibility.
3858311|We conducted a study of the diet of the federally endangered Indiana bat (Myotis sodalis) at an urban/rural interface near Indianapolis International Airport in summer 2004. We used two 1-m
41495804|Teucrium chamaedrys is the most variable species in the genus Teucrium, fitting Kruckeberg's category of a bodenvag species. Six populations distributed on serpentine and 3 populations off serpentine were investigated, and 23 morphological features were studied by uni varate and multi varate statistical analyses. The variation was higher for the vegetative features and not clearly expressed for the generative ones. In addition, metal concentration in the populations and soil were studied. The species tolerant to the serpentine conditions demonstrated specific morphological differences in stem length, stem length up to the first leave pair, and internode length between second and third leave pairs. Morphological differences, geographical isolation, and preliminary results on the karyology of T chamaedrys in Bulgaria, suggest that the populations studied were different ecotypes.
4499896| We studied the effects of browsing by Odocoileus virginianus (white-tailed deer) on the native and non-native vegetation in a mixed oak-beech forest in Rock Creek Park, Washington, DC. We compared the thickness and cover of vegetation up to 2 m in height, and species richness of native and non-native plants in 17 exclosed (1 x 4 m) and 17 control plots from 2001-2004. Over the four-year period, foraging by deer suppressed the thickness of vegetation  1 m in height, reduced the cover of herbaceous, woody, and native plants, and generally decreased the species richness of native and woody plants. Browsing had no effects on the species richness of non-native plants, but generally reduced the prevalence of Celastrus orbiculatus (oriental bittersweet). Of the dominant canopy species, browsing affected Quercus spp. (oak) regeneration, but had no apparent effects on Fagus grandifolia (American beech). These results indicate that white-tailed deer are having a detrimental effect on the structure and species richness of native plants in this forest, and as a consequence, diminishing the value of the habitat for wildlife. In addition, white-tailed deer may help control the spread of oriental bittersweet in forest interiors, particularly where this species occurs at relatively low levels. If deer browsing is left uncontrolled in this forest, we predict that its future composition will shift towards one with fewer species and one dominated almost exclusively by American beech. 
25177129|In order to assess the effect of bird feeders on the distribution of ticks on a residential lawn, ticks collected beneath bird feeders were compared to similar control areas on a residential property in Worcester County, MA. Host-seeking ticks were sampled from August 8, 2005 to July 25, 2007 by dragging with white flannel cloth. All ticks were counted and removed from the cloth. Sampling was conducted 38 times. A total of 12 ticks (larvae and nymphs) was collected. Significantly more ticks were collected from under the bird feeders (n = 10) than the control area (n = 2).
10.2307/3858619|The terrestrial planarian Bipalium adventitium Hyman, 1943, a predator of earthworms, was first identified in the United States about a half century ago and is believed to have been introduced from Asia. Since that time, anecdotal reports have indicated its presence in six states and have suggested that the flatworm may spread via human activities. To better understand the potential threat posed by B. adventitium, we investigated the extent of its dispersal in New York State, its current distribution in relation to human land-use patterns, its reproductive modes, and its predation on local earthworm species. We found specimens of B. adventitium in 13 counties of New York State. Their abundance in urban/suburban gardens and lawns suggests that dispersal has been primarily passive, by transport with the roots of replanted trees, bushes, or grasses. They reproduce both sexually, producing egg cases, and asexually, via fragmentation. They aggressively preyed on all species of earthworms that were offered, often attacking and consuming earthworms many times their mass. Its rapid spread, successful reproduction, and effective predation on many local earthworm species indicate that B. adventitium may represent a significant threat to soil ecosystems in the Northeast.
10.2307/3858370|During 1993 and 1994 an extensive qualitative survey was conducted on the unionid community in Patterson Creek, an Atlantic slope stream in Grant and Mineral counties, West Virginia. The primary purpose of this survey was to determine the status of two federal species of concern. Unionids were found at 17 of the 23 sites surveyed and represented eight species. The number of taxa per site ranged from 0 to 6. The taxon listed as Lampsilis spp. may represent either the native L. cariosa, the introduced L. cardium, or both with possible intergrades. Lampsilis spp. were observed alive at 11 sites, and empty shells were found at an additional six sites. Alasmidonta varicosa (federal species of concern) was found alive at 12 of the 23 sites and shell material at an additional two sites. Specimens of A. varicosa ranged from 25.1 mm to 80.2 mm in length, and appeared to represent a healthy reproducing population. Only one valve of Lasmigona subviridis (federal species of concern) was observed in Patterson Creek during this survey. Other species found during this survey included Alasmidonta undulata, Elliptio complanata, E. fisheriana, and Strophitus undulatus. Although many impacts were evident throughout the watershed (i.e., cattle access to the stream, streambank degradation, lack of riparian canopy, storm-water runoff, poultry farming, and increased urbanization) this stream has a relatively diverse unionid fauna. Knowing what still remains in Patterson Creek today, we can only speculate, due to the lack of historical data, that this stream must have once been home to a diverse and abundant unionid fauna.
3858500|The exotic tree, Acer platanoides, is increasing in forests of north-eastern North America, largely within the range of its native congener, Acer saccharum. A combination of field and controlled experiments was used on seeds and seedlings of these congeners to determine species characteristics that may be contributing to these floristic changes. Acer platanoides experienced lower rates of seed predation than A. saccharum in field experiments. Differences in the dispersal and allocation characteristics of the two species were small and not likely to explain the relative success of A. platanoides. Green-house-grown seedlings of A. platanoides were much larger than those of A. saccharum because of differences in seed size, not differences in growth rate. These data suggest that preferential seed predation and initial seed size differences may explain greater relative success in Acer platanoides seedlings.
10.2307/3858271|Using data collected at 203 randomly selected lakes in eight states in northeastern USA, we present maps of distributions and native status for 22 fish species generally characteristic of warmwater lakes, mostly water-column feeders, belonging to four families: Centrarchidae (sunfish and bass), Esocidae (pike and pickerel), Moronidae (white perch), and Percidae (yellow perch, walleye, and darters). Pumpkinseed and yellow perch were the most widespread species in our survey, collected in 74% and 72% of lakes, respectively. Five centrarchid species -- largemouth bass, bluegill, smallmouth bass, black crappie, and rock bass -- were collected in 55%, 32%, 31%, 22%, and 15% of the sampled lakes, respectively, and were judged as non-native in the majority of those lakes. Chain pickerel, white perch, redbreast sunfish, and tessellated darter were collected in 45%, 19%, 14%, and 10% of lakes. The remaining species were taken in <10% of the sampled lakes. Physical (surface area, depth, elevation), chemical (pH, total phosphorus), and watershed disturbance characteristics of the lakes show distinct species-specific patterns.
43287113|Alliaria petiolata (Garlic Mustard) decreases diversity of native plants and introduces novel litter inputs to forests, but whether Garlic Mustard's presence influences detritivores is unclear. Our goal was to determine if Garlic Mustard alters springtail (detritivore) densities during early invasion. We obtained epigeal (litter, humus, and soil) cores from invaded and uninvaded areas in a Pinus strobus (White Pine) forest and used high-gradient dynamic sampling to extract springtails. Invaded areas contained nearly three times more springtails than uninvaded areas, attributable to two springtail morphospecies from Collembola families Tomoceridae and Entomobryidae. Higher pH in invaded epigeal samples correlated with increased springtail abundance. pH alkalization also correlated with increased proportion of juvenile rosettes in mixed stands. Our results suggest a possible role for pH modulation of springtail abundance in response to Garlic Mustard invasion.
4499934|Previous freshwater mussel surveys (1915-1997) at sites in the upper North Fork Holston River watershed upstream of Saltville, VA, documented 21 species. To assess current status of the fauna, approximately 363 survey hours were spent qualitatively sampling 44 sites in a 77-km reach of the upper river between Saltville and Ceres during 2000-2004. Thirteen species of live freshwater mussels were collected. Species richness appears to have declined only slightly over the last 100 years in this reach of river. However, declines in abundance are now evident in a 6.4-km reach immediately upstream of Saltville. A die-off of federally endangered Fusconaia cor (shiny pigtoe) and candidate species Lexingtonia dolabelloides (slabside pearlymussel) was documented in the upper river during 1999-2002, but the cause was not identified.
10.2307/3858513|This paper serves to set the stage for the conference on the history, status, and future of New England's offshore fisheries. From a global perspective, it provides a brief overview of the geological, physical, and biological processes and features that make New England one of the world's most productive temperate shelf regions, exceeding the primary and secondary production of other renowned temperate fishing grounds. Bathymetry, climate, and tides create a complex mixing regime that enhances nutrient cycling and primary productivity especially over Georges Bank and northeast Gulf of Maine. The glacially influenced coast and seabed create a unique benthic habitat along the US east coast that is a nursery to lobsters and cod, two of the regions most valuable fisheries. Considering the diversity of its habitats, however, New England's marine fauna are rather impoverished due to extinctions related to polar cooling, glaciation, and the absence of suitable refuge habitat to the south. Today's faunal distributions are attributed to recovered ranges pushed south during the glaciation and reinvasions from Europe. The steep north-south thermal gradient along the coast makes it a faunal transition zone. Over the past four centuries, man has contributed to dramatic shifts in the composition of New England's marine biotic communities through harvesting and species introductions. Growing human pressure and the dynamic nature of the productivity of New England waters raise increasing concern over the sustainability of its fisheries.
41495814|Asbestos exposure has been linked to adverse human health effects including asbestosis and mesothelioma. As such, mining and utilization of asbestos is restricted or has been banned in about 50 countries since 1990. Nevertheless, abandoned asbestos mines, mostly in serpentine areas, persist as sources of hazardous airborne fibers. Revegetation of asbestos mine spoils has been proposed as a way by which to stabilize asbestos-bearing substrate, thereby reducing fiber dispersion into the air. No study to date, however, has evaluated the revegetation's effectiveness of reducing airborne asbestos pollution. In this study, we evaluated the effect of natural revegetation on the air dispersion of asbestos fibers from asbestos-rich serpentine lithosoils at an abandoned chrysotile mine. Air sampling of vegetated and barren plots within the mine demonstrated that vegetative cover significantly reduced asbestos dispersion into the air (50% reduction with 15-40% vegetative cover). Additionally, the effectiveness of several native, locally collected serpentine-tolerant species to revegetate the asbestos mine spoil, including Minuartia and Thymus species, was evaluated. Mat-forming, serpentine endemic Thymus sp. proved to be particularly effective at revegetating the mine spoil, having high transplantation survival, growth rates, and reproductive output.
10.2307/3858369|A wild population of Loesel's twayblade, Liparis loeselii (L.) Richard (Orchidaceae), in Franklin County, Massachusetts, was studied from 1993 to 1999. Mortality in one subpopulation was 97% over a five year interval, but population size declined only 52% in the same period, suggesting that recruitment, rather than longevity of individuals, is an important factor in maintenance of the population. Mean leaf length, height, and number of flowers increased over the duration of the study, perhaps due to competition. Individuals with flowers and fruit in one year were more likely to produce flowers and fruit in the following year than those without flowers or fruit. Herbivore activity appeared to strongly influence survivorship. The decline of this species in many parts of its North American range may be a result of both habitat destruction and reforestation since the decline of agriculture in the 19th century.
25177126|Many aspects of the ecology of Myotis leibii (Eastern Small-footed Myotis) are unknown due to the rarity of the species throughout its range in the eastern United States. Few studies have examined Eastern Small-footed Myotis migration and roosting behavior. Until a recent discovery of a population of Eastern Small-footed Myotis using an abandoned railroad tunnel in western Maryland, most observations from the state were limited to records of a few individuals at scattered caves, mines, and tunnels. We used harp traps to capture Eastern Small-footed Myotis at an abandoned railroad tunnel located in Allegany County, in spring 2007. We captured 47 Eastern Small-footed Myotis and equipped four females with radio transmitters. Telemetry revealed that female Eastern Small-footed Myotis migrated 1.1 km to nearby shale barrens and roosted in rock outcrops of various sizes during spring. Females moved &lt;50 m between successive diurnal roosts, which did not differ from random sites located within the shale barrens in terms of site characteristics. Migratory distances and, consequently, geographic ranges of female Eastern Small-footed Myotis probably are influenced by the availability of hibernacula and roosting sites across the landscape.
10.2307/3858282|Harbor seal (Phoca vitulina Linnaeus) abundance and distribution were examined in the Saint John Harbour, Saint John, New Brunswick, Canada, from May-August of 1999 and 2000. Seal counts in the water were made with respect to tide, time of day, season, and weather. Maximum seal counts per week were compared to peaks in fish runs of alewife (Alosa pseudoharengus Wilson) and Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar Linnaeus). Significantly greater numbers of seals were observed at high tide and with lower temperatures. Seal abundance peaked in early May and coincided directly with the presence of alewife. Seal numbers were not found to be significantly related to adult Atlantic salmon migration through the harbor.
10.2307/3858367|Vernal ponds are important aquatic habitat for many species of amphibians and invertebrates. While many aspects of such ponds have been investigated, small mammal populations in the adjacent upland [catchment] habitat are largely unstudied. We selected three ponds in central Massachusetts to determine whether the presence of vernal ponds in forested habitat influences shrew species composition and abundance. Pitfall-trap arrays were installed in pond catchment basins and in adjacent upland forest habitat. A total of 2124 small mammals of nine species were captured during 3880 trap nights. Of these, 341 were shrews of three species. We found no significant differences in abundance between pond-side and upland habitat for any shrew species. In addition, no differences were found in structural and vegetation characteristics between habitats. While there may be some indication that vernal ponds provide some residual effects during dry periods, vernal ponds in the northeastern United States are small and highly variable in hydroperiod, apparently providing an unreliable resource for shrews.
41429423|Clangula hyemalis (Long-tailed Ducks) were observed diving in the wake of the Nantucket Island ferry during December over a 5-year period (20052009). The unusual diving behavior appeared to be related to foraging, but could not be confirmed. Long-tailed Ducks typically feed on more mobile prey than most other diving ducks, and it is speculated that the propeller wash in shallow water dislodged or disturbed prey and provided an enhanced feeding opportunity. Long-tailed Ducks collected while feeding in a disturbed area near a clamming boat not far from the ferry channel were feeding predominantly on Crangon septemspinosa (Sand Shrimp) that apparently had been dislodged by the clamming operation.
3858504|Phoxichilidium tubulariae exhibits an encysted protonymphon development. Its fast developmental mode reduced the typical number of pycnogonid molts and developmental time from months as described for other pycnogonid species to fewer than 21 days. This developmental strategy exploited the seasonal abundance of Tubularia larynx. The larvae hatched, infested the hydroid, and developed inside the gastrovascular cavity. The larvae developed for several molts and then emerged, destroying the hydranth. Annual population dynamics of P. tubulariae were seasonal; density of adult animals was highest in mid-to-late summer with reproduction being greatest in July and August. The abundance of pycnogonids peaked as the hydroid population declined.
43288168|Research addressing the implications of forest harvesting for mammals has focused on different categories of silvicultural prescriptions. However, the effects of these prescriptions on forest structure can vary considerably, and categories of prescriptions rarely incorporate the market for which timber is being harvested. The latter information is important given the recent shift from conventional round-wood harvesting to wholetree removal for biofuels production, and corresponding reductions in post-harvest woody biomass left on-site. Our goal was to assess the effects of forest harvesting for biofuels on mammal species. Objectives included 1) evaluating how structural components influenced mammals, and 2) assessing the role of scale on species-habitat relationships. We sampled mammals in a 97-ha area of hardwood forest in the Adirondack Mountains in New York that had been partially harvested for biofuels in 2010. We used Sherman traps and track plates to assess the distribution of mammals. We captured 6 species of mammals in Sherman traps and identified 8 species using track plates. Mammalian species varied in their sensitivity to changes in habitat characteristics associated with biofuels harvest (coarse woody debris and slash). Our study reveals a complex suite of factors driving the response of mammals to variation in forest structure as a result of biofuels production. The harvesting practices used in the focal region are unlikely to lead to dramatic changes in the abundance and distribution of individual species of small mammals, but may influence the occurrence of common species including deer-mice and voles.
27744544|A survey was conducted in New Brunswick (NB) over 5 years (19962000), to assess the status of Quercus macrocarpa (Bur Oak). Bur Oak in NB is separated from the fringe of its contiguous native range by approximately 750 km. Historically, the species occurred throughout the lower Saint John River Valley and in the floodplains of the Grand Lake Complex. The range in NB has been reduced and fragmented, and now consists of a few small populations, along with scattered individuals, occupying a combined area of less than 5 km2. The most isolated of the small populations in NB is at least 40 km from the nearest seed or pollen source. Elements of a conservation strategy are presented, which include preservation of existing stands by government and non-government organizations, landowner education, and restoration planting in appropriate habitats.
4499903| A Turdus migratorius (American Robin) nest was found in southern New Brunswick, Canada, containing 52 mature sporocarps ("truffles") of Elaphomyces granulatus (false truffle), a species of hypogeous fungus common across North America. Teeth marks on the truffles indicated they had been cached in the nest by a Tamiasciurus hudsonicus (red squirrel). The truffles appeared to have been air-dried before caching and were well preserved. Mean ( SD) weight of each truffle was 3.3  1.4 g, with a total weight of cached material of 173 g. Although caching of epigeous fungus by squirrels is well documented in the literature, records of cached hypogeous fungi are relatively uncommon, and caches involving disused bird nests appear to be rarely encountered. 
3858416|We studied the activity of 11 and movement of 6 radio-tagged eastern coyotes (Canis latrans var.) inhabiting suburban Cape Cod, MA between June 1998 and August 2001. Coyotes were nocturnal year round except for breeding females, which were active day and night during April-June. Twenty four-hour movements of coyotes ranged up to 31.9 linear km and averaged 23.5  7.3 (SD) km from 5-14 radio-fixes during each 24 hr monitoring period. There was no difference between male and female movement rates. Coyotes moved through altered open areas more than expected when compared to residential and natural areas. Coyotes inhabiting urbanized areas generally use residential areas for traveling and/or foraging.
10.2307/3858582|As a result of historical and current human impacts on natural ecosystems worldwide, most modern landscapes involve an element of cultural influence. In New England, for example, although the landscape was largely forested prior to European settlement, it was highly dynamic in response to changing climatic conditions, natural disturbance processes, and American Indian activities. European settlement in the 17th and 18th centuries initiated a dramatic transformation, as much of the land was deforested and farmed and the remainder was logged, grazed or burned. Since the mid 19th century, agriculture and forest use have declined, forest area and age have increased, and the land has become more natural than at any time in the preceeding centuries. However, despite the natural appearance of many portions of the modern landscape, a legacy of intensive past use remains in vegetation structure and composition, landscape patterns, and ongoing dynamics. Consequently, an understanding of the history of human influence should be an integral part of ecological study and a critical component of conservation planning and resource management. A major lesson that emerges from historical perspectives is the recognition that there are no static baseline conditions that can be used for experimental control or decision-making. Rather, change is an inherent characteristic of all landscapes and future change is inevitable. Although ecological research can provide insights into the historical and environmental factors that underlie current conditions and that may determine future changes, it does not provide unequivocal guidelines for policy decisions, for these are inherently subjective in nature. The current changes in wildlife populations across the eastern United States, notably an increase in forest interior species and a decline in open-habitat species, underscores the dynamics as well as the policy dilemmas inherent in landscapes that have been strongly modified by human activities. Recent increases in species such as moose, beaver, and bear and a corresponding decline in open-habitat species such as meadowlarks and grasshopper sparrows may be largely understood as a consequence of historical changes in land cover. These dramatic changes pose ethical dilemmas as some native species threaten human property or health, while considerable effort and management may be required to maintain the flora and fauna as well as the conservation and aesthetic values associated with cultural landscapes. Historical perspectives increase our understanding of the dynamic nature of the landscape, the long-term influence of humans as components of functioning ecosystems, and the cultural basis for our conservation decisions.
10.2307/3858347|A 1989 storm damaged 35% of the trees and 47% of the basal area in a 3 hectare plot in Smith Woods. Larger trees were more likely to be damaged. More hemlock and beech had broken stems than were uprooted; sugar maple and tulip trees were primarily uprooted. Hemlock ages ranged up to >300 years, whereas the sugar maples were <140 years. Two cohorts of tulip trees were apparent, indicating episodic recruitment following disturbance.
10.2307/3858566|In a fragment of second-growth forest in Massachusetts, woody vines (mostly Rhus radicans) grew on 45% of the trees, and were disproportionately abundant on large trees and on trees near the edge of the fragment. Among hickories, Carya ovata, a species known for its unique "shaggy" bark, hosted more vines than C. glabra.
3858635|We examined the growth characteristics of 303 Atlantic sturgeon, Acipenser oxyrinchus, caught in the commercial fishery off the New Jersey coast from 1992 to 1994 (fork length range: 93-219 cm). Sections taken from the leading pectoral fin ray were used to age each sturgeon. Ages ranged from 5-26 years. Von Bertalanffy growth models for males and females fit well, but test statistics (t-test, maximum likelihood) failed to reject the null hypothesis that growth was not significantly different between sexes. Consequently, all data were pooled and the combined data gave L<sub></sub> and K estimates of 174.2 cm and 0.144, respectively. Our growth data do not fit the pattern of slower growth and increased size in more northernly latitudes for Atlantic sturgeon observed in other work. Lack of uniformity of our growth data may be due to (1) the sturgeon fishery harvesting multiple stocks having different growth rates, and (2) size limits for the commercial fishery having created a bias in estimating growth parameters.
41810154|We describe the winter hibernacula of three individual Acris crepitans (Northern Cricket Frogs) around Glenmere Lake in southeastern New York. Frogs were tracked by following fluorescent powder trails of treated Northern Cricket Frogs in late fall 2010. Three frogs were tracked to two subterranean burrows that were 87 m and 140 m from the nearest aquatic habitat. To determine if frogs survived until spring, the burrows were covered by small enclosures in late winter 2011. Northern Cricket Frogs emerged into both enclosures: one frog in one enclosure on 17 March and two frogs into the other enclosure on 10 April. This report confirms the use of subterranean terrestrial habitat distant from water as wintering habitat of Northern Cricket Frogs.
25177121|Algal community composition at three sites above and five sites below Lock and Dam 19 on the upper Mississippi River was determined from samples taken during July, August, September, and November of 2003, and April and June of 2004, to compare the above-dam navigation-channel and vegetation-bed phytoplankton communities, and determine what effect the power plant and lock and dam may have on the mixing of these communities. We predicted there would be clear differences in community composition and abundance between the three above-dam locations and a more uniform community composition below the dam due to mixing. No site-specific or predictable patterns to suggest an effect of the power plant or lock and dam were detected. Nonmetric multidimensional scaling ordination supports the idea that temporal factors may play a larger role in structuring localized phytoplankton communities in this section of the upper Mississippi River.
25177135|To determine habitat characteristics that influence Sciurus niger (Eastern Fox Squirrel) abundance and distribution within a suburban/urban landscape in the midwestern United States, I documented the density and placement of fox squirrel leaf nests in 20 woodlots in the Indianapolis metropolitan area, Marion County, IN. The woodlots varied in size (0.94 to 19.5 ha), approximate age, shape, and degree of isolation from other woodlots and suitable squirrel habitat in the surrounding area. Only 8.0% of nests were located in a tree with another nest, and nests were randomly distributed in all but one woodlot, where they were uniformly dispersed. Nest density was not significantly related to woodlot size, approximate age, shape, or degree of isolation. Fox squirrel leaf nests were not found in greater densities along the edge of each woodlot, contrary to previous reports. My results suggest that the distribution patterns of fox squirrels within suburban/urban landscapes are similar to patterns within landscapes fragmented by agriculture.
43288162|Lynx canadensis (Canada Lynx) mostly occurs in the continental area of North America. Two populations in Atlantic Canada on Newfoundland and Cape Breton Island are geographically isolated. Past studies have revealed geographical and environmental barriers that have significantly impacted processes that ultimately influence the ecology, genetics, evolution, and conservation of the species' populations. However, equivocal results were obtained as to the morphological and genetic characteristics of the species, and very little is known in this regard on the island populations. The aim of this study was to investigate skull morphometric variation between the species' populations. We examined and measured 18 craniodental characters on 171 specimens spanning the species' Canadian range, including most of its boreal forest range and the 2 island populations. Univariate and multivariate analyses provided evidence for significant morphological differentiation among the species' populations. Factors pertaining to geographical isolation of populations accounted for the bulk of the craniometrie variation for both males and females. Principal component analysis (PCA) identified 3 geographical groups: mainland Canada, Newfoundland, and Cape Breton Island. Consistent with the "island rule", analysis of variance with the Sheff significant difference post hoc test and PC A results indicated that continental individuals were significantly larger than those from Cape Breton Island, whereas those from Newfoundland, which is significantly larger than Cape Breton Island, exhibited intermediate size. Shape-related variations in the frontal bone among the 3 geographical groups were detected. Six out of the 18 craniodental characters, i.e., postorbital constriction, mastoid, mandible, upper tooth row, mandibular molar row, and upper canine to canine segment, can be used in discriminant function analysis to distinguish between these 3 groups and correctly classify more than 90% of the individuals from the insular populations. We showed for the first time differentiation between Canada Lynx populations on Cape Breton Island and those in the rest of Canada. Individuals from Cape Breton Island appeared the smallest. Contrary to expectations, the Rocky Mountains did not prove to be a significant geographical barrier, resulting in no morphological differentiation of the British Columbia populations. The morphological variations we reported in this study should benefit conservation and management programs in Atlantic Canada, where the levels of the Canada Lynx population are critically low. Conservation plans that strive to maintain the genetic variation documented in the present study should help ensure the preservation of sufficient variability for adaptation to changing environmental conditions required for the long-term viability of populations of Canada Lynx.
10.2307/3858622|Seasonal forest ponds are unique habitats, and are the principal breeding habitat for some amphibians and invertebrates. An inventory of these habitats on the Quabbin Reservoir (Swift River) watershed (48,500 ha) in central Massachusetts identified and mapped 430 ponds. Two-thirds of the ponds (n = 286) were less than 0.05 ha in surface area and only 14 percent of the ponds (n = 60) were larger than 0.1 ha. The ponds were significantly clustered in spatial distribution. The surface area and spatial distribution of ponds suggest that they may exhibit attributes of biological islands. Pond-breeding fauna with limited dispersal abilities may occur as metapopulations. The actual effects of pond surface area and the spatial distribution of ponds on pond fauna have not been adequately studied. The ponds now occur in a predominantly forested landscape, but from 1750 until early in the 20th century, the landscape was largely agricultural with scattered woodlots or fragmented forests. The effects of land-use change on the composition, relative density, and reproductive success of pond fauna are unknown. The inventory was conducted to provide information to develop studies to investigate the effects of pond size, location, and forest history on pond fauna.
4499911|Freshwater mussels (Bivalvia: Unionidae) are sensitive to pollution of stream habitats. However, there has been no analysis of whether mussel density is correlated with measurements from commonly used rapid water assessment protocols. This study tested which water quality parameters are correlated with the density of freshwater mussels found in selected locations of the middle Allegheny River, PA. No correlation was found between mussel density and either temperature or chemical water quality parameters. However, there was a strong positive correlation between mussel density and the modified EPA physical habitat parameters tested. These results suggest that the physical habitat variables are a useful tool to assess the suitability of stream habitat for unionid mussels, and should help ecosystem managers make informed decisions about the maintenance or restoration of the ecosystem function that these mussels perform.
4499923|We examined the response of small-mammal communities to human disturbance along a gradient from wilderness to managed forest to rural residential development in the Adirondack Park of northern New York. Our objectives were to determine if small-mammal community composition and structure differed among sites along a gradient of human impact and to relate changes in small-mammal community composition to habitat changes along the gradient. We sampled small mammals with track tubes on 10 replicates each of old growth, managed forest, and areas of residential development in the central Adirondacks. We estimated differences in species composition, abundance, diversity, evenness, and community structure, and identified habitat variables associated with differences in these measures. We used canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) to examine the relationship between patterns in small-mammal community composition and sampled habitat variables. Some small-mammal species demonstrated a numerical response to increasing human impact on the landscape, with abundance of total small mammals, eastern chipmunk, and Sorex species highest in old growth and declining in managed forests and areas of residential development. Differences among management types were reflected more strongly in total abundance and community structure than through indices of richness and diversity, which did not differ among management types. Canonical correspondence analysis revealed that 32% of the variability in the small-mammal community could be explained by habitat characteristics and that variables describing availability of coarse woody debris, as well as presence of shrubs in the understory, may create conditions favorable to many small-mammal species in these habitats.
3858508|We describe the first observation of a male American Redstart (Setophaga ruticilla L.) brooding nestlings. Although this behavior has been documented in other North American members of the Family Parulidae, this is the first case in American Redstarts.
4499914| Fundulus diaphanus (banded killifish) were the most abundant fish collected in the shallow water areas of Presque Isle Bay, making up 86% of fish collected. Peak spawning dates based on gonadosomatic index and ovary observations were July 9, 2003 and July 18, 2004. Females became sexually mature at age 1. During 2004, the majority of spawning occurred over a 20-day period between July 9 and July 29. Total fecundity increased with both size and age, and the mean total number of eggs produced was 526  37 at age 1(67 mm  1.8), 744  38 at age 2 (79 mm  2.4), and 1062  43 at age 3 (93 mm  4.1). Based on comparison of the total number of eggs and number of eggs with yolk contained within ovaries, three clutches of eggs may be released during each spawning season. Diets were similar between summer and fall; banded killifish fed almost exclusively on cladocerans and benthic macroinvertebrates. 
4499892|Species richness of corticolous macrolichens was monitored at one- or two-year intervals on a total of 63 plots from 1997-2003 in a region of west-central Pennsylvania that included four coal-fired power generating stations and an industrial city. Lichen richness significantly increased from an average of 5.7 species/plot in 1997 to 9.3 species/plot in 2003. A linear mean rate of gain in species on regional monitoring plots was 0.56 species/yr. Plots along a major ridge top had a slower but significant gain in richness, and a localized area flanked by the city and two generating stations exhibited less lichen recolonization. Our results confirm the value of macrolichens as indicators of air quality and the importance of examining temporal as well as spatial changes in lichen richness to ascertain air-quality status.
41495841|Biodiversity distributions can be quantified as alpha (taxonomic richness), and beta (compositional heterogeneity) components. In both cases, accurate and detailed assessments require substantial resources, so surrogate measures have been proposed and tested. Scientists from the New York Natural Heritage Program (NHP), working in over 140 New York State Parks, recorded occurrences of 128 different ecological communities, 98 significant (rare or exemplary) ecological communities, and 312 rare species. I used their data to test whether community distributions were valid surrogates for rare species diversity at alpha and beta levels. I found that (1) alpha patterns among the State Parks were similar for NHP significant communities and rare species; (2) beta patterns were contrasting, such that NHP significant communities were weak surrogates at this level; (3) alpha distributions were poor predictors of Beta distributions among parks; and (4) a large fraction of beta diversity is attributable to variation in geographic region, but most State Parks and all State Park Regions make unique contributions.
10.2307/3858599|The first record of the least weasel, Mustela nivalis, for the Coastal Plain of Virginia is reported for a site more that 100 km from the nearest Piedmont records. The least weasel in now known in Virginia from seven sites in the mountains, two in the Piedmont, and this Coastal Plain record.
4499902|The termites Reticulitermes virginicus and R. flavipes are sympatric in forests along the eastern United States from Florida to Maryland. These congeners construct subterranean nests, forage on surface and buried wood, and appear to have very similar ecological requirements. In the present study, I examined host-wood selection by these species in a coastal forest over two years. Logs inhabited by R. virginicus had significantly greater diameters than those used by R. flavipes. It is not known whether this pattern resulted from species-specific differences in preference for host size or competition for preferred logs. Host-wood temperature did not differ for R. virginicus and R. flavipes.
3858637|Selection of maternity roosts by the federally endangered Indiana myotis (Myotis sodalis Miller and Allen) is a topic of great concern for wildlife managers. As part of annual monitoring of Indiana myotis at the Indianapolis International Airport, we observed M. sodalis using 2 of 974 available birdhouse-style bat boxes as maternity roosts. This represents the first reported use of birdhouse-style bat boxes as maternity roosts for M. sodalis. However, these 2 boxes were among 3204 artificial roosting structures on the site, including 259 triple and 715 single birdhouse-style bat boxes, many of which were in place for more than a decade and never used by Indiana myotis. Use of bat boxes by Indiana myotis may have been initiated by loss of a primary roost tree 2 years earlier.
4130988|The second documented larval habitat for the northern caddisfly, Phanocelia canadensis (Trichoptera: Limnephilidae), is far south of the center of the species' range in Canada. We collected larvae of this rarely found species from two small, kettle hole wetlands on Cape Cod, MA. The life cycle and behavior are similar to the New Brunswick population studied by Fairchild and Wiggins (1989). Habitat characteristics distinguishing wetlands where P. canadensis occurs include dominance by Sphagnum sp., shrub cover, and low pH. Narrow habitat requirements, summer dormancy, and late adult emergence may limit this species' appearance in collections. Conservation planning and searches for additional populations may be aided by improved understanding of this species' preferred habitat.
41684228|Lontra canadensis (River Otter) have been reintroduced throughout much of their former range in North America, but our understanding of the function they serve in ecosystems to which they have been reintroduced remains incomplete. We examined the winter diet of reintroduced River Otters in Kentucky based on contents of 126 stomachs collected over three trapping seasons, 2006-2009. Fish and crayfish were the main prey, occurring in 86% and 27% of stomachs containing prey items, respectively. We identified 8 families and 11 genera offish and 4 genera and 6 species of crayfish in the diet of River Otters. The most frequently consumed family offish by occurrence was Centrarchidae (36%), followed by Catostomidae (11%), Cyprinidae (11%), and Clupeidae (7%). Centrarchidae were also found at the greatest volume (53%) of any family offish, followed by Catostomidae (14%), Clupeidae (12%), and Cyprinidae (12%). Of the centrarchids, Group A fish (Lepomis, Ambloplites, and Pomoxis spp.; 28%) occurred at a higher percent in the diet of River Otters than Group fish {Micropterus spp.; 5%). River Otter diets did not vary between males (n = 68) and females (n = 58), adults (n = 46) and juveniles (n = 80), or those from the western (n = 64) and eastern (n = 62) regions of the state.
40959925|Salamander guilds are important components of ecosystems and may be declining in Virginia. Consequently, information on salamander diversity and abundance is needed. Our objective was to assess salamander diversity at one site in the Rappahannock River watershed: the C.F. Phelps Wildlife Management Area. We randomly selected stream and upland terrestrial sites to run 50-m transects, for both quadrat and natural cover searches. We assessed diversity using a Shannon-Weiner index on all captures (larval and adults) and assessed diversity in on-site catchments. We found 11 of 13 expected species, with ' = 1.33  0.05 SD, ' = 0.55 for all captures, and ' = 1.18  0.08 SD, ' = 0.49 for non-larval diversity. A single catchment (Fishing Run) was considered more diverse than other catchments on site. We conclude that C.F. Phelps Wildlife Management Area supports a relatively diverse salamander community. Management efforts should focus on maintaining stream structural diversity and monitoring the effects of agricultural activities such as fertilizer use, erosion, and habitat fragmentation and loss.
40664879|Ozone is the most important air pollutant impacting forests of the northeastern United States, including Pennsylvania. Spatial and temporal patterns of ambient, ground-level ozone were studied during 2002-2004 within north-central Pennsylvania hardwood forests. Ground-level ozone was monitored at 20 remote, forested sites using passive (non-electric) ozone samplers. Ten monitoring sites were established at (relatively) low-elevation (<350 m) locations in valleys and ten sites were located at (relatively) high-elevation locations (>550 m) on mountains. Realtime electronic ozone analyzers were co-located with the passive samplers at three sites that had access to electricity. Spatial maps were developed illustrating gradients of ozone across the region. During all 3 years, ambient ozone levels were positively correlated with elevation (2002, p = 0.813, P < 0.001; 2003, p = 0.877, P < 0.001; and 2004, p = 0.518, P < 0.019). Native forests at higher, mountainous sites may be at risk from higher ambient levels of ozone, despite their perceived "pristine" location. Future field surveys, designed to evaluate ozone injury to native vegetation, will use spatial maps developed from this study.
27744594|Use of global positioning system (GPS) collars to improve our understanding of bear movements and habitat use has increased markedly in the last 10 years. Habitat use has been better defined using this technology, but variation in acquisition rates across covertypes and with varying antenna orientation could bias results. I assessed the effects of vegetative habitat characteristics and antenna orientation on percent of successful fixes and 3-dimensional (3D) fixes for GPS collars designed for Ursus americanus (American Black Bear) in Michigan during AprilJuly, 20012002. I placed collars in 5 habitats with varying tree density, diameter, and canopy cover and also in an unobstructed area with antennas oriented 090 from horizontal. Basal area was the only habitat parameter measured that influenced fix success; the correlation was negative. Percent of successful locations obtained in the open area decreased as antenna orientation increased away from the vertical position. Habitat characteristics and antenna orientation appeared to influence the percent of total fixes and 3D fixes obtained, which could have adverse effects on accuracy. Thus, bear or other wildlife use of certain covertypes and behavior (e.g., sleeping) can reduce GPS collar acquisition rates. Variation in acquisition rates among cover-types and antenna orientation warrants consideration for development of correction factors based on habitats encountered and animal behavior.
41315931|A significant and recruiting population of Obovaria olivaria (Hickorynut Mussel) was confirmed in the Mississagi River, Lake Huron drainage, ON, Canada. This large river unionid mussel is known to use Acipenser fulvescens (Lake Sturgeon) and Scaphirhynchus platorynchus (Shovelnose Sturgeon) as hosts. The Mississagi River is known to have a spawning Lake Sturgeon population. In 9.1 person-hours of snorkel and SCUBA searches, 10 live O. olivaria ranging in length from 36 to 79 mm, including six gravid females, were collected in sandy substrates with water depths from 1.5 to 4 m. Obovaria olivaria in the Mississagi River represent a significant range disjunction from the other extant populations in Canada in the Ottawa and St. Lawrence river drainages. As the conservation status of this rare mussel in Canada is assessed, the geographic genetic population structure and spatial extent among known areas should be studied to understand the post-glacial redistribution of the species.
10.2307/3858472|Sampling in several habitat types (sand/mud, eelgrass, sand, gravel, macroalgae/mud) during all seasons with a variety of gears in Nauset Marsh, Massachusetts during 1985-1987 found a fauna consisting of 35 fish and 10 decapod crustacean species. Although most of the abundant species were found in several habitat types, species richness and habitat use appeared to be highest for vegetated habitats (eelgrass, macroalgae). The fishes and decapods were numerically dominated by cold-water taxa; however, numerous fish species, represented by rare individuals of predominantly southern forms, enriched the fauna. Species composition of Nauset Marsh could be distinguished from estuaries south of Cape Cod and even from the south shore of the cape. Both fishes and decapods were most abundant during the summer, apparently due to the contributions from spring and summer spawning in the estuary and the adjacent Atlantic Ocean. The location of Nauset Marsh and other estuaries on Cape Cod provide a unique opportunity to evaluate the importance of this region as a faunal boundary to estuarine species.
60225660|A naturally eutrophic, estuarine ecosystem with many unique features has developed in Cobscook Bay over the past four thousand years under the influence of six meter tides and rich flows of nitrogen from the deep waters of the Gulf of Maine. In this paper, measurements of primary production and water column properties made in the Bay from 1995 to 1996 and information from past studies are used to construct an energy systems model of the Bay's ecosystem and to evaluate the annual flows of energy and matter coursing through this network. The properties of this ecosystem network were analyzed in terms of the solar emjoules (emergy) required to support primary and secondary production. In Cobscook Bay there is an extraordinary convergence of emergy, 7.4E+12 sej m<sup>-2</sup>, from renewable sources. This level of emergy is one of the highest natural empower densities that we have found. Eighty-four percent of this emergy is from the tides and wave action. Transformities calculated in this analysis show that emergy is being used, most effectively, to support populations of large brown alga, i.e., Ascophyllum nodosum, Fucus vesiculosus, and Laminaria longicruris, and the diverse community of benthic organisms that thrive in the intertidal and shallow subtidal zone along the shore. Phytoplankton production is less efficient apparently due to light limitation, but phytoplankton and resuspended benthic microalgae support highly productive beds of filter feeders. Empower density in Cobscook Bay is similar to that required elsewhere for intensive fish culture; therefore, aquaculture may be a good human use of the rich convergence of natural emergy found there. The nitrogen entering Cobscook Bay from salmon culture is 19% of the net annual flux of new nitrogen entering from the coastal waters. The Bay's great resource wealth supports economic activities such as salmon culture and commercial dragging for scallops and urchins that, in turn, alter the concentrations of nutrients and suspended sediments locally in the Bay and may cause increased sedimentation and changing benthic communities in the Bay as a whole.
4130986|Swainson's Warbler is among the forest-bird species of highest conservation concern in the eastern United States. Recent publications include conflicting accounts of the species' breeding status at the northern limit of its range on the Delmarva Peninsula in Maryland and Delaware. To clarify this ambiguity, we reviewed and compiled the peninsula's published locality records. Three conclusions are evident from our analysis: 1) despite reports to the contrary, Swainson's Warbler continues to persist in two disjunct areas within the Pocomoke River watershed: Great Cypress Swamp in Maryland and Delaware, and Hickory Point Swamp in Worcester County, MD; 2) sporadic breeding-season records suggest small scattered breeding sites in other parts of the watershed, especially in the upper Nassawango Creek in Wicomico County, MD; and 3) further effort is warranted to better identify and delineate regularly occurring breeding areas in unexplored areas of the Pocomoke and adjacent Nanticoke watersheds. Because the long-term viability of the peninsula's population is uncertain, we believe the species' current legal status as State Endangered in Maryland and Delaware remains warranted.
41495844|Management of overabundant Odocoileus virginianus (White-tailed Deer) populations in suburban and rural landscapes remains controversial, and deer-reduction techniques in these areas are often impeded by public attitudes and safety concerns. Cornell University implemented an "earn-a-buck" (EAB) hunting program to mitigate deer-related impacts on lands surrounding its campus (722 ha) in Ithaca, NY in 2008, and at the University-owned Arnot Teaching and Research Forest (ATRF; 1649 ha) in Cayuta, NY in 1999. The focus of EAB was to increase the harvest of female deer and lower herd size. For the benefit of other entities challenged with White-tailed Deer overabundance, we describe implementation of an EAB hunting program on campus lands. We recorded 257 deer harvested (69-99 each hunting season) on lands near campus. At ATRF, there was an increased harvest of adult does and fawns upon EAB implementation. Moreover, the number of antlered bucks harvested dropped during the first 2 years of EAB when compared to pre-EAB levels. We demonstrated an increased harvest of female deer and improved adult sex ratio during EAB. We monitored program progress via data collected at deer check stations. Deer harvests at ATRF have declined slightly over time, proving beneficial for forest regeneration and biodiversity; however, the question remains how to maintain hunter interest in EAB programs during years of decreased deer numbers.
41315949|Isotria medeoloides (Small Whorled Pogonia) is a globally rare woodland orchid. Observed population declines in this species may be related to decreased light availability resulting from forest maturation. In East Alton, NH, a population of Small Whorled Pogonia was partitioned into two groups, with one left as a control and the other subjected to canopy-reduction management. The removal of all shrubs and 25% of the tree basal area approximately doubled light transmission to the managed group. The number of stems and seed capsules significantly increased in this group relative to the control group. While this was not a replicated experiment, our observations suggest that canopy thinning may help promote the long-term conservation of this federally threatened species.
10.2307/3858264|Crayfishes from 81 sites in New England yielded six species of branchiobdellidans -- Bdellodrilus illuminatus, Cambarincola fallax, C. mesochoreus, C. philadelphicus, Pterodrilus missouriensis, and Xironogiton instabilis. This is the first report of the distribution of branchiobdellidans across the region. The Royal Ontario Museum, Toronto, Ontario, Canada, supplied branchiobdellidans, subsequently identified as C. mesochoreus, that had been removed from the gills of preserved marine crabs, Cancer borealis and Callinectes sp., reportedly collected from the Gulf of Maine, USA. Over 100 specimens of Hyas araneus, Cancer irroratus, C. borealis, and Carcinus maenas were collected at irregular intervals since 1978 from the coasts of northern Massachusetts, and Damariscotta estuary, Maine, USA and St. Andrews, New Brunswick, Canada, in an unsuccessful attempt to find a marine branchiobdellidan.
3858338|Ecologists, conservationists, and others increasingly ask questions that require a reliable understanding of natural conditions in the past. For example, when the US Fish and Wildlife Service proposed to list the Canada lynx (Lynx canadensis) under the Federal Endangered Species Act, there was a need to know the historical status of this species in the northeastern US. The natural history writings of Manly Hardy, a successful, nineteenth-century businessman and respected amateur naturalist from Brewer, ME, proved useful in assessing the lynx's historical status. Because of the wide array of potential uses of Hardy's writings, the objective of this paper is to make biologists and other scholars aware of Hardy, especially his 15 surviving journals, 1852-1899. Hardy left the most extensive published record of any of the naturalists who wrote about wildlife in Maine from the late 1800s through the early 1900s. His articles and essays covered a wide range of subjects about a variety of bird and mammal species. A recently published biographical sketch of Hardy contains an annotated bibliography of his publications along with the republication of 14 of his mammalian works. In contrast, this article contains an example of his unpublished journal writing with significant wildlife observations.
43288170|In August 2012, a Lasiurus cinereus (Hoary Bat) and 2 Lasiurus borealis (Eastern Bat) were netted near Donkin, Cape Breton Island, NS, Canada. Acoustic studies showed the presence of Hoary Bats on at least 3 nights and Eastern Red Bats on at least 16 nights, over a 32-night-long survey starting on 21 August 2012. These records are the first for both species on Cape Breton Island, and significantly extend the known distribution of Eastern Red Bats.
4130738|Historical accounts and descriptions of the Boston Harbor Islands were searched for references to the islands' vegetation. They indicate dramatic changes in vegetation structure and composition since 1600. Many of the islands were wooded prior to European settlement, although Native American use is evident before 1600. Forests were cleared for agriculture, building materials, and firewood. Through the centuries since European settlement, the islands have variously supported municipal and military facilities, some of which have since been abandoned. As use of the islands changed, the vegetation of the islands also changed; in some cases native trees and other species returned to abandoned areas, while in others new, exotic species became established or were planted. By the end of the 20th century the vegetation had become a mixture of woodlands (roughly 25% of the islands as a whole), shrub thickets, open lands, and manicured landscapes, all of which include a large component of non-native species.
27744599|Basking is common in emydid turtles and is generally accepted to be a thermoregulatory behavior. In 2004, we quantified and described the basking behavior of turtles in the Central Canal of Indianapolis. This canal system flows through an urban landscape that is dominated by fragmented woodlots, residential areas, and commercial areas. We observed that basking turtles exhibited variable basking behavior, with spatial and temporal shifts in basking behavior from east-facing banks in the morning to west-facing banks in the afternoon. Turtles in the Central Canal are subject to frequent disturbance, which altered basking behavior. Many turtles forewent aerial basking on emergent substrates for aquatic basking on vegetation mats, which maintained warmer and more consistent temperatures than either emergent substrates or the surrounding water. Living in an intensively managed urban habitat, turtles in the Central Canal are susceptible to frequent anthropogenic perturbations, and future management should consider the life history and ecology of urban turtle populations
4130744|The intertidal zone of the 34 islands that are the Boston Harbor Islands national park area encompasses over half of the total park area, thereby representing a significant natural resource. The purpose of this study was to inventory the intertidal zone by classifying and mapping all habitats and compiling species lists for major taxonomic groups. The Boston Harbor Intertidal Classification System was developed for mapping substrate and biotic assemblage types--a system specific to the local area, but capable of application throughout the Gulf of Maine. Intertidal habitats were mapped from GPS-based field delineations. Mixed coarse, consisting of rocks, boulders, cobbles, gravel, shell, and sand, was by far the most common substrate type; however, the islands were variable with a total of 13 discrete substrate types mapped, ranging from bedrock and boulders to mud. The outer islands (e.g., Outer and Little Brewster) were dominated by rocky substrate, while islands close to the mainland (e.g., Thompson, Slate) had high percentages of fine sediments. Of the 31 biotic assemblages mapped, Mytilus edulis (blue mussel) reef was the dominant assemblage on many of the middle and Hingham Bay islands, while the outer islands had assemblages common to the more exposed rocky substrates. The species inventory recorded 95 species of invertebrates, 70 marine algae, and 15 vascular plants. The information generated from this inventory will provide a foundation for natural resource management decisions, design of a long-term intertidal monitoring program, and identification of research needs.
4499895| The purpose of this study was to analyze ice damage to 228 trees of 9 species on the Virginia Tech campus. Damage was caused by three severe ice storms in February and March 1994. There were significant differences among species in amount of damage. Four ways of expressing percent damage were compared (% individuals damaged, % basal area of damaged trees, % crown damage, and an average of the three). The average method yielded the most significant comparisons, followed by percent crown damage. The species, ranked in four groups by mean total damage, are as follows: most damage (Acer saccharum, Chamaecyparis nooktakensis, Ulmus americana, and Acer nigrum: 29.7-26.4%); less damage (Quercus alba and Platanus occidentalis: 18.4-13.7%); lesser damage (Cornus florida: 10.2%); and least damage (Quercus rubra and Quercus palustris: 6.7-0%). The differences among groups were significant at P  0.05. Ice damage also caused a significant decrease in crown growth of four species. Comparisons with other studies revealed good correspondence, in general, with two or three exceptions. Our conclusions are that three factors were chiefly responsible for the relatively severe damage to trees: 1) the severity of the ice storms; 2) the open, exposed siting of all the trees, similar to trees growing at the edge of a forest; and 3) the high percentage of large trees with internal decay and asymmetric crowns. 
60225659|Late 20th-Century changes in the intertidal distributions of macroinvertebrates within five sample sites in the Cobscook Bay, ME, region were evaluated by comparisons with qualitative baselines, some as old as 35 years. These baselines were generated by the Maine State Planning Office Critical Areas Program (1970-1987), which recognized the unique distributions of macroinvertebrates and high diversity of intertidal communities in Cobscook Bay that had attracted many zoologists dating back to the early 1800s. The sample sites were critical invertebrate areas registered by the Critical Areas Program between 1968 and 1976. None of the sample sites had been re-examined for at least 20 years, and all but one had been evaluated at least twice previous to this study. Many species, including those whose presence was used to designate habitats as critical, were common or abundant in original site descriptions, but rare or absent in 2002. The dramatic change in community composition away from species typical of hard bottoms to established mussel beds suggests a faunal shift has occurred. The principal driving force that produced this change is proposed to be disturbance from increased sedimentation that altered intertidal habitats. Potential sources of this disturbance and possible cascades that followed are discussed.
40664888|New records of a rare dragonfly, Stylurus plagiatus, are described from the Hudson River estuary in eastern New York State. Breeding occurred primarily in tidal mudflats; however, in other parts of its range, this species is known to use a broader array of habitat types. As a southerly species at its northern range margin, populations of S. plagiatus in eastern New York are likely to be temperature-limited, although other factors, such as shoreline habitat integrity and dispersal behavior, may also play a role in defining its range limits.
41810151|Callophrys irus (Frosted Elfin) is threatened under New York State conservation law and has fewer than 5 secure populations within the state. Published research on these populations is needed to support the development of a state recovery plan and monitoring program for the species. We assessed the relationship between adult occupancy (patch use) in the Albany Pine Bush Preserve and a suite of potential controlling factors. We then used the results in a simulation framework to quantitatively inform how many sites and surveys are needed for Frosted Elfin occupancy monitoring. Patch use was best explained by a model that assumed the same occupancy probability for each patch. The species was more likely to use patches with limited shrub cover and greater host plant density, yet showed a good chance (>76%) of using even the smaller patches (<1 ha) with relatively sparse density (<1000 ramets ha). Detection probability depended primarily on observer and survey date, ranging from 0.34 to 0.94 among observers and from 0.35 to 0.96 across surveys. In the worst-case scenario (i.e., low detectability and low intrinsic occupancy rate), minimum effort for adult Frosted Elfin occupancy monitoring in habitat similar to the Albany Pine Bush may require at least 20 habitat patches surveyed 6 times each or at least 10 habitat patches surveyed 8 times each. Less effort (e.g., 10 sites x 4 surveys) will likely suffice if surveys are restricted to the period of peak abundance. Adult occupancy (or patch use) is probably the most efficient state variable for monitoring Frosted Elfin populations, and changes in detection-corrected occupancy rate or proportion of area occupied could be useful for conservation planning.
4499935|Little information exists on macroinvertebrate community composition in small, micro-tidal, Ruppia maritima (widgeon grass)-dominated Maine estuaries. Qualitative and quantitative assessments of the macroinvertebrate fauna of widgeon grass beds in Northeast Creek estuary (Acadia National Park, ME) are presented here. The community was dominated by euryhaline freshwater invertebrates including midge larvae (Chironomidae: Dicrotendipes, Cricotopus, Chironomus), oligochaetes, damselfly larvae (Coenagrionidae: Enallagma), amphipods (Gammaridae: Gammarus), gastropods (Hydrobiidae: Hydrobia), ostracods (Cytheridae: Cyprideis), and water boatmen (Corixidae: Trichocorixa). Macroinvertebrate abundances at the sampled sites were
41495838|As the climate changes, plants will need to respond to new environmental scenarios to survive. Belowground movements are one way in which plants respond to lethal temperatures. Plants use various methods to control belowground movements, notably contractile roots and droppers. I monitored populations of Erythronium americanum (Trout Lily) for contractile roots and documented the capacity of both annual corm growth and droppers to move the corm deeper in the soil. There was no evidence of contractile roots. While both corm growth and droppers lowered the corms, droppers provided for greater movement. Shallower corms produced longer droppers, and the average depth of a new corm formed from a dropper was consistent among corms of various original depths. Erythronium americanum can, therefore, use droppers to control corm depth, thus providing it a mechanism with which to escape potentially dangerous soil temperatures.
3858501|Frugivores and fruit-producing plants often have a mutualistic relationship in which plants provide animals with nutritious fleshy pulp in return for the dispersal of seeds within the fruit. Although the selection and dispersal of invasive plant species by birds has major implications for native animals, plants, and communities, few studies have focused on whether birds select invasive versus native fruits. I compared fruit removal and fruit choice by birds, and fruit energy content of two invasive plant species, Lonicera tatarica and Rosa multiflora, and two native plant species, Cornus amomum and Viburnum opulus, in central Maine. Frugivores preferentially consumed fruit from L. tatarica and C. amomum, and they did not discriminate between R. multiflora and V. opulus during choice trials. Although the two native plant species had significantly higher caloric content than the two invasive species, higher energy density of native plants was not directly correlated with more rapid fruit removal or fruit preference.
43287102|Pholis gunnellus (Rock Gunnel) is an amphibious fish found along North Atlantic coastlines. Remaining above the waterline at low tide and breathing air, it is ecologically unusual and is a food source for a variety of seabirds, mammals, and fish. We investigated intertidal and subtidal habitat selection by the Rock Gunnel along the US East Coast. To quantify characteristics of intertidal microhabitats and their usage by the Rock Gunnel, we conducted intertidal quadrat surveys in midcoast Maine and New Brunswick. Using datasets from trawl surveys conducted by state (Massachusetts and Connecticut) and federal fishery management agencies, we investigated how subtidal habitat characteristics influenced the occurrence of Rock Gunnel in trawl yields. Logistic regression and classification and regression tree (CART) analysis showed that Rock Gunnels preferred microhabitats in the lower intertidal zone, with sand/pebble/gravel substrata and overlying cobbles, tidepools, and dense algal cover. The occurrence of Rock Gunnel in trawl yields did not depend upon temperature, salinity, or latitude, but decreased with depth and increased moving eastward. In the intertidal zone, the Rock Gunnel appears to select habitat that minimizes the risks of prdation and desiccation at low tide, while allowing access to abundant intertidal prey resources at high tide. The Rock Gunnel's broad physiological tolerances suggest that its selection of habitat in the subtidal zone is driven primarily by the availability of sheltering structure and biotic factors, rather than by temperature or salinity.
41495817|Nickel (Ni) is essential for all plants due to its role in urease activation. Demonstration of Ni essentiality has required exceptional effort to purify nutrient solutions to remove Ni; thus, an improved technique would make study of Ni deficiency more available to diverse researchers. As part of our research on Ni hyperaccumulation by plants, we developed chelator-buffered nutrient solutions with very low buffered activity of free Ni 2+ , and tested growth of Alyssum murale (Goldentuft Madwort), A. corsicum (Madwort), A. montanum (Mountain Alyssum) and Lycopersicon esculentum (Tomato). We used a modified Hoagland nutrient solution with 2 mM Mg and 1 mM Ca to simulate serpentine soil solutions. We could use hydroxyethyl-ethylene-diaminetriacetate (HEDTA) to achieve Ni 2+ activity levels as low as 10 M, and cyclohexane-ethylenediamine-tetraacetate (CDTA) to supply higher activities of buffered Ni 2+ compared with HEDTA; however, we were unable to obtain proof of induced Ni-deficiency, even with urea-N supply in a 6-week growth period, apparently because seeds supplied enough Ni for growth. Yields were somewhat reduced at lower Ni activity by the end of the test period, but strong deficiency symptoms did not occur, apparently due to the supply of Ni from hyperaccumulator species seeds (contained 7000-9000 mg Ni kg). Chelator buffering supplied controlled levels of Ni 2+ for all test species; very low plant Ni levels were attained when seed Ni was low. Reaching clear and strong Ni deficiency appears to require longer growing periods, using seed with exceedingly low initial endogenous Ni, or species possessing higher Ni requirements.
10.2307/3858449| Using data collected at 203 randomly selected lakes in eight states in northeastern USA, we present maps of distributions and native status for 28 fish species: 15 benthic species in five families, 11 small water-column feeders in six families, and two large piscivores. Brown bullhead and white sucker were among the most widespread lake-dwelling fishes, and were collected in 69% and 56% of the sampled lakes. Banded killifish, American eel, and yellow bullhead were collected in 26%, 19% and 17% of sampled lakes respectively. The remaining species were collected in 8% of the sampled lakes. Many of the species that were uncommon in this survey have limited distributions in the Northeast or are more commonly found in streams than in lakes. Seven species discussed in this article are Mississippian and were only collected in Cross Lake, NY. We also present a summary of the extent, geographic distributions, and native status of all 88 fish species collected in the EMAP -- Northeast Lakes Project. 
25177136|The short-term negative impacts on Lepus americanus (Snowshoe Hare) of logging activities in boreal forest are widely recognized, and conservation efforts are being taken now in designing residual forest stands to maintain use of logged landscapes by hares. This study evaluated the effectiveness of three types of residual stands in maintaining hares during the high phase of hare density cycle in Picea mariana (Black Spruce) forest of eastern Canada. Residual forest stands sampled were upland strips (60 m wide, 250-950 m long, mesic conditions), riparian strips (100 m wide, 250-950 m long, along a permanent stream), and residual blocks (200-300 m wide, 20-50 ha). Control stands were undisturbed forest. All stands were considered mature (56-97 years old). Pellet and browse surveys were conducted during spring 1998 and 1999. Hare abundance indices were significantly lower (1999), or tended to be lower (1998), in strips than in blocks, although habitat composition and structure of the treatments did not differ from control stands. Pellet presence was positively related to vertical cover. In 1998, foraging activity (browsing) was significantly higher in control and block landscapes than in strip landscapes; browsing was positively related to availability of ericaceous and deciduous twigs. In 1998, twenty Snowshoe Hares were radio-tracked in residual stands to monitor their summer home ranges, fidelity to capture sites and to type of residual stand, use of clear-cuts and uncut forest, and daily movements. There was a clear trend towards lower fidelity to strips than to blocks, and summer home ranges and daily movements (&gt;330 m) tended to be larger in strips compared to those in blocks. Our study suggests that up to 5 years after logging, residual forest blocks appeared to be more suitable habitat in summer for Snowshoe Hare than were 60-m-wide strips.
3858308|An introduced population of Etheostoma blennioides (greenside darter) in the Susquehanna River drainage has rapidly expanded its range since its discovery in the late 1960s. Geochronology of collection data in the Susquehanna River drainage provides evidence for explosive dispersal and long-range movement patterns. We discuss the current status and distribution of E. blennioides in the drainage, and suggest that other Mid-Atlantic Slope drainages with low native-darter diversity are at risk of similar colonization events. Although the long-term effect of these invasive populations is as yet unknown, we suggest that they may pose serious threats to persistence of several unique members of the Atlantic Slope ichthyofauna, especially the critically imperiled Etheostoma sellare (Maryland darter).
41495834|The Shawangunk Formation, a quartz pebble conglomerate of Middle Silurian age, extends from the lower mid-Hudson Valley through New Jersey and into Pennsylvania. It overlies the Ordovician Martinsburg Formation, which is composed of shales and graywackes. The Martinsburg crops out on the Shawangunk Ridge and is quarried by Mohonk Mountain House in New Paltz, NY, in order to prevent erosion and provide good footing on the trails. The quarry, locally known as the "Shale Bank", contains a diverse marine fauna of brachiopods, crinoids, bivalves, ostracods, corals, trilobites, and conulariids. In this community, the partition of feeding niches results in a reduced competitive trophic structure and therefore increased community stability. Within the Shawangunk Formation, there are rare "pods", domelike structures that are filled with a gray matrix of rounded quartz grains supported by a clay matrix. The pods appeared to have formed along cleavage surfaces. A previously unrecognized metal sulfide deposit has been discovered in the conglomerate along Eagle Cliff. This deposit consists of the Fe-sulfide phases pyrite and marcasite, lesser amounts of the Cu-Fe sulfide chalcopyrite, and trace amounts of anglesite (Pb-sulfate). An outcrop of the Middle Devonian Onondaga Limestone in the Port Jervis Trough contains large crinoid columnals, the coral Amplexiphyllum, trilobite fragments, and the brachiopod Levenea subcarinata. The Onondaga in this area is part of a carbonate ramp that was a shallow carbonate shelf in the Helderberg-Coxsackie area, a thick accumulation of shelf-margin bryozoan bafflestone between Leeds and Saugerties, and an even thicker accumulation of sparse to packed biocalcisiltites deposited on a carbonate ramp dipping southward into the Port Jervis area.
27744589|Somateria mollissima (Common Eider) is an important game species throughout its circumpolar range, including eastern Canada and northeastern United States. In eastern Canada, the largest harvest of Common Eiders occurs in Newfoundland; however, the age, sex, and subspecific composition (S. m. borealis and dresseri are both present) of this hunted population is not well quantified. The species, subspecies, age, and sex composition of the harvest was determined by examining heads collected from 1672 eiders (including Somateria spectabilis [King Eider]), taken mostly by hunters, from 19801996. Band-recovery information for Common Eiders banded in Newfoundland and Labrador were also summarized, including data from a release program of hand-reared ducklings in northern Newfoundland from 19881996. The composition of the eider harvest varied across the province. In northern and eastern areas, borealis Common Eiders made up the bulk of the harvest. King Eiders were also taken in these areas. In southern areas, most Common Eiders taken were dresseri. Sex ratios tend to be near 1:1, and immature birds comprised most of the harvest. Recovery distributions showed that Common Eiders breeding in Newfoundland and Labrador were mainly taken within the province, but also contributed to harvests in Qubec and Nova Scotia, and to a lesser extent, Maine. Hand-reared ducklings had direct recovery rates of 0.047 and were most likely to be recovered within the province in the year of banding, but contributed to harvests in Atlantic Canada and New England as they aged. The harvest of eiders in Newfoundland varies regionally and seasonally; therefore specific harvest regulations could be implemented to manage the variety of populations present in the province throughout the year.
3858540|Basidiocarps of Trametes versicolor with an epiphytic flora (including Trebouxia sp.) collected from north-central Rhode Island were incubated in an atmosphere of <tex-math>${}^{14}\text{CO}$</tex-math> labeled CO<sup>2</sup> for 6 hours. Using autoradiography, the location of the fixed <tex-math>${}^{14}\text{CO}_{2}$</tex-math> was determined at 6h, 12h, 24h, 48h, 96h, and 192h. The fixed <tex-math>${}^{14}\text{CO}$</tex-math> was recorded in the epiphytic algae after 6h, and at all subsequent times. After 192h the <tex-math>${}^{14}\text{CO}$</tex-math> was recorded in the fibrillar matrix associated with the epiphytic algae, and appeared to be present in the fungal hyphae in the top smooth, silky layer of the basidiocarp. The results suggest that the epiphytic algae secrete the fixed carbon in a form that Trametes versicolor can potentially assimilate, however, the slow assimilation of the carbon (4-8 days) suggest a casual relationship between T. versicolor and its epiphytic algal flora.
41429416|We analyzed the survival rates of 160 Odocoileus virginianus (White-tailed Deer) over 6 years in the area of Wisconsin's highest prevalence of chronic wasting disease. Survival was very high for all age/sex classes and varied by season but not by year. When we omitted hunting mortality, yearlings and adults had similar annual survival, with survival of males (0.830.89) slightly lower than survival of females (0.91). However, including hunting mortality reduced survival of yearling and adult males to 0.72 and 0.41, and survival of yearling and adult females to 0.88 and 0.83, respectively. We also observed seasonal patterns, characterized by reduced survival across all sex and age classes during the rut season (10 October to 31 December), which includes the period of maximum hunting. Six mortalities (8.3%) were associated with chronic wasting disease, including one deer that died from the disease. We find no evidence that CWD was substantially increasing mortality rates during the duration of our study from 2003 to 2007, though the disease is relatively new to this area. Our results can serve as a baseline by which to compare future mortality rates in this area to assess the virulence of CWD over time.
4130743| We surveyed birds during May and June, 2001-2003, on 26 islands and 1 mainland location in Boston Harbor, MA. We detected 136 species, 67 of which were suspected of breeding. Abundant breeding seabirds included Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus), Herring Gulls (Larus argentatus), and Great Black-backed Gulls (Larus marinus). We found 73 Common Eider (Somateria mollissima) nests on Calf, Green, Middle Brewster, and Outer Brewster Islands in 2003, making Boston Harbor one of the largest, southernmost nesting areas for this species on the western Atlantic Ocean. We surveyed 7 wading bird colonies composed of Black-crowned Night-Heron (Nycticorax nycticorax), Great Egret (Ardea alba), Snowy Egret (Egretta thula), Glossy Ibis (Plegadis falcinellus), and Little Blue Heron (Egretta caerulea). We found a colony of Least Terns (Sterna antillarum), a state-listed species, on Rainsford Island. We estimated that 49 species of landbirds nested on Boston Harbor islands, but most islands had few species (mean = 9.8 [ 2.2 (SE)] species per island), presumably because many islands were small and dominated by non-native second-growth forests. The most widespread species were Yellow Warbler (Dendroica petechia), Song Sparrow (Melospiza melodia), and Red-winged Blackbird (Agelaius phoeniceus). We also detected over 50 species of migratory birds which did not nest on islands in the Harbor, including many species of shorebirds and warblers. 
3858633|We report on a six-year study (1994-1999) of a diverse turtle assemblage in Gallatin County, IL. Ten species of freshwater turtles representing four families were recorded. Species richness increased as a function of trap hours, with 3000 trap hours required to capture all species. The greatest density and biomass was for Trachemys scripta. Pseudemys concinna ranked second in density, but Chelydra serpentina ranked second highest in biomass. Females comprised the majority of the biomass in emydids, biomass ratios were even in Sternotherus odoratus, and males comprised the majority of the biomass in C. serpentina. Relative abundance did not significantly differ among the six years, although some uncommon species were not captured in all years.
43288161|Previous observations on the occurrence of the megalopae of Ocypode quadrata (Atlantic Ghost Crab) along the inshore waters of the northeastern coast of the US from New Jersey to southern Massachusetts and the offshore waters of southwestern Nova Scotia, dating back to the end of the 19th century to recent findings in the 21st century, are reviewed. Although megalopae were found for the first time north of Cape Cod in plankton samples from Nova Scotia (1977-1978), they are reported here for the first time on beaches north of Cape Cod along the east coast of Massachusetts and as far north as Kennebunkport, ME. The nearest populations of adult Atlantic Ghost Crabs are located along the southeast coast of Massachusetts. Thus, zoeae larvae and megalopae originating below Cape Cod must migrate northward around the Cape or via Buzzards Bay through the Cape Cod Canal. Likewise, megalopae reported from southwestern Nova Scotian waters must have originated from adult populations to the south. The incidence of megalopae from New Jersey northward along the coast suggests a recruitment period from late summer into early fall for Atlantic Ghost Crabs on the northern edge of their range.
10.2307/3858281|Lily Fen is a 6 hectare, well-developed, patterned fen located on Swans Island, Maine. In contrast to other patterned fens in Maine, Lily Fen occupies a coastal location and lies approximately 100 kilometers south of the geographic area where these landforms commonly occur. It is a poor fen dominated by Sphagnum species, including S. pulchrum, S. papillosum, and S. cf. flavicomans, with some intermediate or rich fen taxa such as Cladium mariscoides and Carex exilis. Calcium concentrations are less than 2 mg/L, and the pH is relatively high (ca. 6.0), both probably as a result of enhanced cation inputs from marine aerosols and complete nitrate reduction. High summer precipitation, input of nutrient-rich marine aerosols, a large catchment to basin ratio, highly permeable catchment soils, and a relatively steeply sloping surface likely contribute to the well-developed strings, flarks, and pools at this site.
10.2307/3858263|Intertidal distribution, habitat, and diet of the recently introduced western Pacific shore crab Hemigrapsus sanguineus (De Haan) were studied in southern New England. H. sanguineus was found in rocky intertidal coastal and estuarine environments, in salinities as low as 24 ppt. H. sanguineus was more abundant in lower and middle than in upper intertidal elevations, and abundance increased with rock cover. Gut contents of H. sanguineus included a variety of food items, particularly crustacean remains, algae, and vascular plants, indicating an omnivorous diet. H. sanguineus abundances and sizes at different sites suggested a trend of northward expansion of its range.
10.2307/3858593|Shell color in the intertidal gastropod, Littorina obtusata, conforms to that of Ascophyllum nodosum, the dominant brown alga on which the snail is commonly found. The snail is also the general shape and size of the vesicles or gas bladders common on this fucoid alga. Collections of the snails and photographs of the alga were taken at wave-exposed and wave-protected sites on the central coast of Maine. Color analysis revealed significantly different chromatic patterns between the two sites. A higher proportion of yellow snails were found in habitats dominated by Ascophyllum plants with a higher proportion of yellow fronds. Yellow snails also tended to be smaller than their more abundant green or polychromatic dark counterparts. The two sites differed significantly in both the color of Ascophyllum and the relative proportions of the different color groups of L. obtusata. These observations are consistent with the hypothesis that this snail persists under pressures from visual predators by camouflaging itself on its algal food source.
4499925|Streambank fencing is increasingly used to exclude livestock from riparian corridors and to enhance biological communities. Our study examined vegetative change and avian-community use of recently fenced agricultural habitat. We conducted strip-transect surveys to census bird communities, line-transect and plot surveys to assess vegetation, and intensive nest monitoring to gauge use and reproductive success across 12 fenced riparian sites in southwestern Pennsylvania. Selected sites varied in age from 3 to 8 years since fencing and averaged 21 m in width. We found avian use was significantly greater in spring than in fall across our fenced sites. We determined that canopy cover, shrub cover, and herbaceous ground cover could predict various attributes of the avian community present within the fenced riparian areas. Our results also suggest that the avian community has greater species richness within sites containing greater habitat complexity, and that these sites are important breeding and nesting areas. Among the 145 nests monitored, 38% successfully fledged young. We found no differences in distance to corridor edge between successful nests and nests that failed. Our study confirms that riparian renovation efforts do have conservation value for both migratory and resident birds.
41315932|The relationships between stream flow regime and macroinvertebrate diversity, community structure, and functional feeding groups (FFG) were examined to determine if the biodiversity and macroinvertebrate fauna of non-perennial streams are significantly different from those of perennial streams. The study was conducted in northeastern Massachusetts at headwater stream sites of varying flow permanence (perennial, intermittent, and ephemeral). ANOVA confirmed no significant difference in Shannon-Wiener diversity (H') between stream types, demonstrating that non-perennial streams maintain diverse and even macroinvertebrate communities. Whereas taxa richness was equal among intermittent and perennial sites, ephemeral richness was lower due to their significantly lower riffle richness. Qualitatively, two non-perennial sites were higher in grand total H' diversity and taxa richness than perennial sites. Community structure was also related to flow regime, as hierarchical cluster analysis (HCA) based on taxa presence produced three distinct groups consistent with stream type, and FFG analysis provided further evidence of distinct communities, with a transition in FFGs from perennial to ephemeral sites. This study concludes that non-perennial streams are biologically diverse and maintain distinct benthic communities and therefore contribute to stream biodiversity and river ecosystems.
4499922|The ecology of Myotis leibii (eastern small-footed myotis) remains largely unclear, including its foraging behavior. During fall, cavernicolous bats must accumulate enough fat reserves to sustain them during winter hibernation. We examined the food habits of eastern small-footed myotis captured at abandoned coal mines at New River Gorge National River in West Virginia during fall 2005. Based on fecal samples from 44 bats, we found that eastern small-footed myotis diets were diverse, containing 9 families within 7 orders of insects. Lepidoptera were consumed by all but one bat and represented the largest average percent volume among insect orders. This study elucidates an important component of the foraging ecology of this rare bat species.
41429234|Early-successional habitats, including agricultural fields, appear to provide important foraging and nesting resource areas for Glyptemys insculpta (Wood Turtle) and Terrapene Carolina Carolina (Eastern Box Turtle) in the northeastern US. Mowing and agricultural activities can elevate turtle mortality rates. We performed two experiments to evaluate the risk of turtle mortality associated with 1) style of mower, 2) mower blade height, and 3) tractor tires. Mower blade height did not affect mortality rates when set to 15 cm. Different types of mowers appear to exert differential effects on mortality, with sickle bar mowers resulting in 50% lower mortality rates than rotary mowers and other models. However, mortality due to crushing by tractor tires may be as high as 46%, independent of blade type and height.
3858385|Recently collected specimens document the presence of the Mudpuppy at the mouths of tributaries draining into the tidal Hudson River in Columbia and Greene Counties, NY. In this study, we summarize historic records of Mudpuppy from the Hudson River. Examination of these records, Mudpuppy distribution elsewhere, and the distribution of riverine New York reptiles leads us to conclude that Mudpuppy should be considered native to the Hudson Valley.
25177105|Using results from a three-year mist-netting survey of bats in Michigan, we examined effects of three aspects of netting protocols on number of bats caught, relative abundance of species, species diversity, and species evenness. Netting for a second consecutive night at the same location led to a 40% reduction in number of bats captured, although relative abundance, diversity, and evenness were not affected. Proportionately fewer bats were caught during the 5th h after sunset compared with the first 4 h in a night; however, diversity and evenness were greater in the 5th h compared with the first 4 h. Diversity, evenness, and number of bats captured in nets set over wooded areas on land did not differ from nets set over water, but relative abundance differed between habitats. Even slight variations in netting protocols can lead to quantitative differences in the description of a local assemblage of bats.
10.2307/3858621|We discovered a dead male Risso's dolphin, Grampus griseus, on Sable Island, Nova Scotia, Canada on January 7 1994. The 277 cm long corpse was unmarked by net entanglement or propeller scarring. Transverse sections of fusiform teeth exhibited 13 incremental growth layers in the dentine, in addition to a neonatal line. No other specimens of this species have been reported on the island. Risso's dolphins are not sighted commonly in Canadian waters and we are aware of no other published sightings or stranding records for this species within 100 km of the island. The pristine condition of this corpse, and the fact that it was not seen during regular beach surveys prior to discovery, indicates that it was a recent stranding. If this dolphin had died at sea, it did so close enough to Sable Island as to preclude scavenging by aerial or marine organisms before washing ashore.
41315938|Haliaeetus leucocephalus (Bald Eagle) is an adaptable predatory bird that commonly captures live prey, but regularly scavenges. Large mammalian prey (e. g., Odocoileus virginianus [White-tailed Deer]) have been observed in Bald Eagle diets, but were considered scavenged. To our knowledge, Bald Eagle prdation of a live ungulate has only been reported once, and occurred in Menominee County, MI. In June 2009, we captured and radiocollared a female White-tailed Deer fawn (2.7 kg) in the south-central Upper Peninsula of Michigan. The fawn was last radiolocated alive 8 h after release in a short-height (20-30 cm) grassland field along a river approximately 570 m from an eagle nest. Estimated time of mortality of the fawn was 10 h post release. Approximately 27 h post release, 2 legs, > 50% fawn hide, and the radiocollar were present in the nest along with 2 eagle nestlings (estimated age 9-10 wks). We believe this was a possible prdation event based on the 8-h period between fawn relocations, fawn movement, foraging behavior of the nesting eagles, and presence of the carcass remains and radiocollar in the nest.
41810156|A Carcharodon carcharias (White Shark) was observed attacking and successfully taking a male Phocaena phocaena (Harbor Porpoise) in the Bay of Fundy, Canada at 4452'93" N, 6644'32"W at 1600 hours on 17 August 2012, between Grand Manan and The Wolves. The shark was estimated to be greater than 3 m in length. This observation is the first of such incident involving a Harbor Porpoise since 1952. This sighting further contributes to the notion that White Sharks prey upon Harbor Porpoise in the Bay of Fundy.
10.2307/3858352|Collections of caddisflies from a riparian wetland associated with Tomah Stream (Washington County, ME) have revealed a rich assemblage of 148 species, comprising approximately one-half of all species known from Maine. This wetland is the only location documented in Maine for 11 species of caddisflies. Seven of these are widely distributed throughout northeastern North America, and their occurrence in Maine is not surprising. Records for four species, however, represent northeastward range extensions of 700-1500 km, and one species, a member of the microcaddisfly genus Hydroptila, is new to science. The high species richness of caddisflies documented in this study, combined with the presence of potentially isolated populations of several species with predominantly southern distributions, suggests that the Tomah Stream wetland may be a hotspot for freshwater invertebrate diversity in Maine. Current knowledge, however, is not sufficient to allow conclusions about whether the level of species richness demonstrated in this study is a local-scale phenomenon or one that should generally be expected for riparian wetlands in northeastern North America.
25177082|Ambient, ground-level ozone is the most important air pollutant affecting vegetation in the US. However, ozone-sensitive bioindicators need to be identified for use in field surveys to detect ozone-induced symptoms. To identify such bioindicators, 28 plant selections were exposed to ozone within greenhouse chambers during 2003 and 2004. Plants most sensitive to ozone included Asclepias incarnata (swamp milkweed), Asclepias syriaca (common milkweed), Cephalanthus occidentalis (buttonbush), Platanus occidentalis (American sycamore), Salix x cotteti (Bankers dwarf willow), Salix lucida (shining willow), Salix nigra (black willow), Salix sericea (silky willow), and Symphoricarpos albus (snowberry). Plants moderately sensitive included Aster novae-angliae (New England aster), Monarda didyma (bee-balm), Rhus aromatica (aromatic sumac), Salix discolor (pussy willow), Salix exigua (sandbar willow), Salix purpurea (basket willow), Sambucus ebulus (European dwarf elderberry), and Symphoricarpos spp. (mixture of "snowberries"). Plants more tolerant to ozone included Aster macrophyllus (bigleaf aster), Aster novi-belgii (New York aster), Cercis canadensis (redbud), Populus maximowizii x trichocarpa (hybrid poplar), Rudbeckia laciniata (cutleaf, or tall green-headed coneflower), Salix amygdaloides (peach-leaved willow), Salix eriocephala (diamond willow), Sambucus canadensis (American elder), Sambucus nigra (European elder), Symphoricarpos orbiculatus (coralberry), and Viburnum trilobum (highbush-cranberry). The incidence and severity of ozone-induced symptoms varied with species, ozone concentration, and length of exposure. Pigmented adaxial leaf surface stipple, bifacial necrosis, and premature defoliation were common foliar symptoms induced by ozone; leaf reddening, bronzing, and chlorosis occurred less frequently. Species that produced classic ozone-induced stipple in this study may serve as useful bioindicators in field surveys to confirm that ozone injury occurs in many parts of the country. Such findings may have a positive impact on establishing more stringent air-quality standards to protect vegetation and the environment.
40664839|Short peat cores from three sphagnum bogs in central Maine were analyzed palynologically to determine whether recent reforestation approximates forest composition immediately prior to European colonization and deforestation. Radiocarbon dating and palynology show that the cores extend to 600-2000 years b. p., beginning well before 18th-century colonial forest disturbance. Cores from Round Pond bog (Franklin County) and Kanokolus Bog (Waldo County) show that Tsuga canadensis (Eastern Hemlock) was much more abundant on the local landscape at the time of European settlement than it is today; a core from Hamilton Pond bog (Kennebec County) records an abrupt local Eastern Hemlock decline, and accompanying Acer spp. (maple) rise, that preceded European contact by several centuries. All three bogs show increased heath (Ericales) abundance with deforestation, presumably a result of augmented nutrient flux into the bog basins due to increased erosion on surrounding slopes. Modern forest composition around all three sites is quite different from the forests immediately preceding European colonization and clearing. Pollen types indicative of agricultural activities (Ambrosia, other Asteraceae, Poaceae, Brassicaceae) that mark European deforestation and the onset of farming, have faded or disappeared as many farms have been allowed to revert to forest in the past half-century. Pine (mostly Pinus strobus [White Pine]) is more abundant in the modern pollen record than in subhistoric time, as are Abies spp. (fir) and Picea spp. (spruce); dominant hardwood taxa have responded differently to reforestation of the areas surrounding the study sites, in part determined by local edaphic conditions.
40664884|The freshwater sports fishery of Prince Edward Island (PEI) revolves largely around three salmonid speciesSalvelinus fontinalis (Brook Trout), Salmo salar (Atlantic Salmon), and the nonnative Oncorhynchus my kiss (Rainbow Trout).However, little is known about their current distribution and relative abundance on the Island. Of particular concern is the status of Atlantic Salmon, whose populations have declined dramatically in other parts of the Maritimes and are listed as "may be at risk" on PEI. We systematically sampled 69 streams with suitable juvenile salmonid habitat (riffle with gravel/cobble substrate), to provide baseline data concerning the population status of these three species. Brook Trout were found in all 69 streams, with a median density of 78.3 fish per 100 m Atlantic Salmon were found in 23 sites, at a median density of 11.6 fish per 100 m . Rainbow Trout were found in only 19 streams, but at slightly higher densities of 16.2 fish per 100 m Present day distribution and abundance of all three species on the Island have been influenced by habitat modification and degradation.
41315935|Movements of juvenile Homarus americanus (American Lobster; hereafter lobster) on and around a naturally occurring rock reef were monitored over a 3-year period. Lobsters were sampled with baited traps deployed at each often sites. Catch-perunit-effort (CPUE) and number of lobsters collected per trap haul was calculated for each sampling event. Physical habitat, visually characterized by underwater video and diver observations, differed among sites. Lobster CPUE was significantly greater at rocky sites (>70% density of cobble and/or boulder) containing complex structure, vertical relief from the seafloor, and colonies of macroalgae, sponge, and hydroids. Lobster CPUE was highest from late June to mid-July. Lobsters ranged from 18 to 82 mm carapace length (CL), with 90.7% of tagged lobsters measuring between 30 to 60 mm CL. Relative lobster abundance remained similar over the course of the study. Catch data were kriged to illustrate spatial patterns of distribution. Over the study period, a total of 934 lobsters were tagged and 66 were recaptured, for an overall recapture rate of 7.1%. The majority of recaptured animals (88%) were found at the original tagging site or adjacent sites, with one lobster remaining at liberty for 397 days. Most juvenile lobsters showed fidelity to their initial site of capture on a small, relatively isolated patch of rock-reef habitat in the central basin of Long Island Sound.
4130745|Visitor carrying capacity has been a long-standing issue in management of parks and protected areas. Contemporary carrying capacity frameworks rely on formulation of indicators and standards of quality to define and manage carrying capacity. This paper describes a program of research to support management of carrying capacity of the Boston Harbor Islands national park area, a recent addition to the national park system. Research included: (1) an inventory and analysis of recreation-related resource impacts on selected islands, and (2) surveys of visitors to islands open to public use. Study findings are being incorporated into a visitor carrying capacity management plan through formulation of indicators and standards of quality for the park's natural resources and visitor experience.
27744565|Sixteen selections of Apocynum cannabinum (Indian Hemp) and nine of Asclepias syriaca (Common Milkweed) from midwestern USA were exposed to 40 or 80 ppb ozone under controlled conditions within greenhouse continuously stirred tank reactor (CSTR) chambers to evaluate their relative ozone sensitivity. The incidence and severity of ozone-induced symptoms on both species were directly related to ozone concentration and duration of exposure. The most common foliar symptom was classic, dark, adaxial stipple, similar to symptoms ascribed to ambient ozone in the field. Indian Hemp was more sensitive to ozone than Common Milkweed. Both species exhibited considerable intraspecific variation in ozone sensitivity. Variability in the data was too great to assign definitive ozone-sensitivity ratings within geographic regions from which seed was selected. However, two locations were identified as possible collection sites for ozone-sensitive selections of both species: Wabaunsee County, KS and Plattsmouth, NE for Indian Hemp; and Cloud County, KS and Swan Creek Lake Wildlife Area, NE for Common Milkweed. Plants derived from seed from these locations may serve as ozone-sensitive bioindicators.
10.2307/3858355|The purpose of this note is to present a brief description of the capture of a bilateral gynandromorph of Hyalophora cecropia taken in Nova Scotia.
41810146|The distribution of belowground biomass within monotypic stands of invasive Phragmites australis (Common Reed) was documented from a series of oligo-, meso-, and polyhaline coastal marshes in New Hampshire. Soil profiles were described, and live biomass was documented growing to a maximum depth of 95 cm for roots and 85 cm for rhizomes. Our data show that invasive P. australis utilizes a greater depth range than native graminoids (90% within the top 70 cm and top 20 cm, respectively). We corroborate prior anecdotal observations and provide further evidence illustrating the potential for this invasive plant to access resources (i.e., water and nutrients) at depths greater than the native species with which it competes.
25177078|Little is known about the visitation patterns of Lontra canadensis (Nearctic river otter) at latrines. We used remote camera and video camera systems manufactured by TrailMaster to determine when Lontra canadensis (river otters) occupying riverine habitats in Pennsylvania and Maryland visit latrines, what the group composition is during visits, and if either variable changes by season. We documented 173 visits to latrines by river otters. The majority of visits (102) were by single river otters. One hundred fifty of the total visits occurred at night. Most (111) lasted &lt;1 min. The largest peak in visitation to latrines occurred immediately prior to and during the breeding season (February/March).
40959753|We develop a concept of suitable habitat for Glyptemys (Clemmys) muhlenbergii (Bog Turtle) on the Lake Ontario Coastal Plain of central and western New York State and compare it to habitat for this species in other parts of its distribution. At the outset of our studies in 1987, only a single Bog Turtle population was known to survive on the Lake Ontario Plain. We located and visited nine of the 10 historically recorded Bog Turtle sites in northern, central and western New York and completed a survey of 84 selected wetlands in Oswego County, at the eastern end of the Lake Plain. In the course of the study, we confirmed the presence of the Bog Turtle at a site where it was last documented in 1916 and discovered populations at three previously undocumented sites, one of which is now the northernmost recorded site for the species. Bog Turtle habitat on the Lake Ontario Coastal Plain is open-canopy, sedge-dominated medium to rich fens contained within larger wetlands that often include an open pond and extensive Acer rubrum (Red Maple) or Red Maple-Larix laricina (Tamarack) swamp. We discuss events that may have led to the current distribution of Bog Turtle populations in central and northern New York and in western Pennsylvania and implications of this distribution pattern for the conservation of the species.
25177100|Little is known about the distribution and ecology of intertidal oysters in northeastern North America. North of Chesapeake Bay, intertidal oysters have either been previously reported as non-existent or only occurring as single oysters or sparse clusters. In the present study, we report the occurrence of dense populations of intertidal oysters at several estuarine sites within New Hampshire and mid-coastal Maine, with these growing under dense canopies of the long-lived Ascophyllum nodosum (fucoid alga). The densities of these northern intertidal oysters rival subtidal populations in the same geography, and their sizes suggest a persistence of 5 or more years.
43287098|The emergence of the fungal disease white-nose syndrome (WNS) among hibernating bats in North America and its causative pathogen, Geomyces destructans, underscores how little is known about fungi associated with bats and their subterranean environments. Investigating 8 caves and mines in New Brunswick, Canada, we cultured a diverse array of fungi from the fur and skin of apparently healthy, hibernating Myotis lucifugus (Little Brown Bat) and M. septentrionalis (Northern Long-eared Bat) in the year prior to the emergence of WNS in the province. Among the 117 isolated fungal taxa, we found an array of psychrophilic, psychrotrophic, keratinolytic, coprophilous, and saprobic fungi. The most common taxa were Geomyces pannorum sensu lato, Penicillium spp., Mortierella spp., Mucor spp., Cephalotrichum stemonitis, Leuconeurospora spp., Penicillium solitum, Cladosporium spp., and Trichosporon dulcitum. Each bat hosted 6.9  3 (SD) fungal taxa, and 30.8  5 taxa were isolated per hibernaculum. Number of taxa isolated per bat was positively correlated with mean and minimum winter temperatures in the dark zones of hibernacula. Forty-seven of the taxa have never been reported in caves, and an additional 31 taxa are new records for North American caves. The presence of Geomyces pannorum sensu lato on 70% of hibernating bats may complicate results of diagnostic techniques used for identifying G. destructans. Bats hibernating in eastern Canada harbor a rich reservoir of fungal species and probably play a role in moving fungal spores into and between hibernacula, as well as onto the landscape.
41315960|Morphological and genetic techniques for distinguishing captive vs. wild stock are often insufficient. We found differences in carbon isotope values from Canis latrans (Coyote) and Canis lupus (Wolf) eating wild vs. domestic diets. Wild canids in the Northeast have lower C values because they eat prey that mainly feed on C plants.However, canids eating typical domestic diets have more positive C values (6) because of the Zea mays (Corn; a C plant) fed to domestic stock and used in dog foods. We applied this technique to hair and bone samples from eight Wolves in the northeastern USA, where no natural Wolf populations are known. Three Wolves had strongly negative C values, typical of a wild-food diet, while the other five Wolves had more positive values typical of captive animals. As expected, we found no significant difference in N isotope values between captive and wild animals. This new evidence suggests that, while some Wolves are escaping from captivity, at least three animals have apparently dispersed into the area. This finding adds new urgency to the preparation of conservation plans for the potential natural recovery of this endangered species in the region.
40959931|Sciurus carolinensis (Eastern Gray Squirrel) is one of the most recognized sciurids in North America. Since 1930, apparently isolated Nova Scotia sightings of Eastern Gray Squirrel have been believed to result from captive releases or escapes. However, the species was not believed to have become established in the province. Here we report first evidence that the Eastern Gray Squirrel is now present as a breeding mammal in Nova Scotia.
43288166|Lyme disease is the most prevalent vector-borne disease in north temperate areas worldwide, with the majority of cases reported in the northeastern United States. The transmission cycle involves ticks, deer, small mammalian hosts such as mice, and numerous other species. Levi et al. (2012) suggested that Canis latrans (Coyote) abundance and Vulpes vulpes (Red Fox) scarcity are strong predictors of Lyme disease cases in eastern North America, with Odocoileus virginianus (White-tailed Deer) abundance being less important. This suggestion was based on correlations of disease dynamics with human harvests of canids, as it has been suggested that Red Foxes occur at a lower abundance because of Coyote prdation. Because Red Foxes are more effective predators of small mammals, the authors ofthat work contend that the lower Red Fox abundance results in an increase in the incidence of Lyme disease. This paper re-examines the evidence used by Levi at al. (2012) to reach their conclusions. We address the following points: 1) Levi et al. did not provide data on rodent populations or Lyme disease incidence; 2) Coyotes eat rodents, so a Coyoteinduced reduction of Red Fox populations might not result in increased rodent populations; 3) Coyote harvests are poor indicators of Coyote abundance; 4) both Red Fox numbers and rodent numbers fluctuate dramatically due to factors such as disease and weather; 5) some of the data used by Levi et al. (2012) were from regions with western Coyotes, while other data were from areas with hybrid eastern Coyotes, thus confounding the situation; and 6) Levi et al. did not consider important alternative hypotheses, such as habitat fragmentation and climate change. Additionally, the historical dynamics of the Lyme disease system are unknown given that Canis lupus lycaon ( Canis lycaon) (Eastern Wolf) and Urocyon cinereoargenteus (Gray Foxes) originally lived in most of the northeast, while Red Foxes and Coyotes were historically absent from most of the area. We suggest proceeding with caution before concluding that the presence of Coyotes (or the reduction of Red Foxes) is the primary cause of increased incidence of Lyme disease cases in the eastern United States.
41429412|Invasive plants may disrupt symbioses between plants and soil biota. We tested whether ectomycorrhizal fungi (ECM) associating with Quercus rubra (Northern Red Oak) seedlings was lower near invasive Alliaria petiolata (Garlic Mustard). We quantified ECM colonization, identified morphotypes, and compared composition in forests with contrasting Garlic Mustard densities. Seedlings had lower ECM colonization and diversity in a stand with dense Garlic Mustard than in a stand without Garlic Mustard. ECM composition also differed between stands. Seedlings in a stand with moderate density Garlic Mustard had marginally less ECM than those at the no Garlic Mustard site. These findings suggest that ECM association is negatively correlated with Garlic Mustard invasion. This association may result in lasting changes to forest communities and hinder site restoration following Garlic Mustard removal.
3858291|A common garden experiment was used to test for genetic differentiation between populations of the widespread Mimulus ringens var. ringens and the very locally distributed var. colpophilus, in and around Merrymeeting Bay in Maine. Measurements in the field documented a statistical difference for leaf length and calyx lobe length between populations found in non-tidal versus tidal waters, although most populations surveyed fell within values originally established for var. ringens. Field-collected seeds grown in the greenhouse showed differentiation between varieties for flowering date and for three of four of the morphological characters measured. A second generation grown in the greenhouse showed differentiation between varieties for the same three morphological characters, but not for flowering date.
43287114|Once abundant in Kentucky, Ursus americanus (American Black Bear) were extirpated from the state by the late 19th century because of overharvest and habitat alteration. Regenerating deciduous forests, increased human tolerance, and source population growth and expansion in neighboring states have facilitated Black Bear recolonization in parts of southeastern Kentucky since the 1980s. As of 2012, < 500 Black Bears were estimated to occur in Kentucky, with most individuals found in two successfully reproducing, geographically separate, and genetically distinct core populations in the southeastern part of the state. Our research suggests that population growth and expansion of Black Bears within Kentucky is occurring and abundant suitable habitat exists to support further increases in range and numbers. Potential impediments to further population growth and recolonization include roads, overexploitation primarily from illegal harvest, and habitat loss and fragmentation. The recolonization of Kentucky by the Black Bear represents an important case study of population growth and expansion of large mammals in the eastern US that has widespread ecological and economic implications.
43287104|A new cave population of sculpin fish from Central Pennsylvania is described that, if confirmed to be cave adapted, would become the second northernmost caveadapted fish in the world. The Tytoona Cave fish lack the suite of modifications typical of troglomorphic populations. Their eyes, pectoral fins, and mouths appear to be as large as those of their surface counterparts, they have the same number of cephalic lateralis pores, and their pigmentation levels do not appear to be much lower. Nonetheless, they are considered to be cave adapted due to the presence of ovigerous females, a lack of evidence for starvation, and primarily because the cephalic lateralis pores (part of the lateral line system) are significantly larger than those of similar-sized surface fish. It may be that the Tytoona Cave population only has some emergent cave adaptations because in high latitudes the extent of polar ice sheet migration during the Pleistocene era restricted colonization by fish at least until 12 ka ago, when the ice age ended.
4130993|Many bat species have similar requirements for summer roosting sites leading to the potential for niche overlap and competition for roosts. Similarities in day roosts between bat species are rarely considered as a factor influencing population dynamics of species. We tracked Nycticeius humeralis (evening bats) and Eptesicus fuscus (big brown bats) to roost trees to evaluate the possibility of niche overlap in roost-site selection. Only tree height was significantly different between roosts used by the two species. Canopy cover, canopy height, dbh, tree species, tree condition, and roost type were not significantly different between the trees used by the two species. If competition for roosts exists between these species, similarities in roost trees may be important, especially as roost trees become scarce due to increased human alteration of roosting habitat. Competition for roost sites, in concert with other factors, may affect both competitors; however, populations of the inferior competitor, which is probably the evening bat, should be more negatively affected.
3858417|We studied nest site selection by Eastern Wild Turkeys (Meleagris gallopavo silvestris) to compare successful and unsuccessful nests at the northern edge of the species' range in central Ontario during 2000. Six of 16 (38%) nests that we studied were successful. Successful nest sites had greater percent vertical obstruction than unsuccessful nest sites. However, both percent vertical and horizontal obstructions were the best predictors of nest success, suggesting that no single set of habitat characteristics may offer protection from a diverse predator community.
41495821|"Serpentinomics" is an emerging field of study which has the potential to greatly advance our understanding of serpentine ecology. Several newly developing -omic fields, often using high-throughput tools developed for molecular biology, will advance the field of serpentine ecology, or, "serpentinomics." Using tools from the fields of ionomics, metabolomics, proteomics, transcriptomics and genomics, researchers will be able to address new (and old) ecological questions in powerful and creative ways. In particular, "serpentinomics" has the potential to uncover the mechanistic and genetic basis of the complexities of tolerance of and adaptation to serpentine soils, including the biochemistry of hyperaccumulation. Here we outline each of these -omic fields and describe possible applications to the field of serpentine ecology.
10.2307/3858395|I documented successful breeding by a pair of Sandhill Cranes (Grus canadensis) in a wetland in Kennebec County, Maine in 2000 and 2001. In 2000 I observed two adults with a chick on 5 and 14 July and 5 August. In 2001 I found the pair incubating a nest with two eggs on 18 May and observed them with one chick on 3 and 22 July. The wetland is a large sedge- and sphagnum-dominated lakeside fen and cattail (Typha latifolia) marsh that supports one of the most diverse wetland bird communities in the state. The nest was surrounded by cattails and was constructed of year-old cattail leaves and stems. These first records of breeding Sandhill Cranes in Maine and New England are likely the result of recent increases and eastward expansion of a crane population centered in the midwestern United States and Ontario. Historical literature suggests that this species was formerly a common migrant north to New England and may have nested here as well.
43287110|We systematically surveyed the Maine coastline from Washington County to York County to provide baseline data concerning Calidris maritima (Purple Sandpiper) population status. Focusing on a particular region each winter, we conducted 66 winter surveys by boat along the entire coast of Maine between 2002 and 2007 plus three days surveying from the mainland between Kittery and Biddeford during the winter of 2005-2006. We tallied 13,318 Purple Sandpipers during these surveys. After accounting for birds present but not detected, we estimate that 14,000 to 17,000 Purple Sandpipers wintered annually in Maine between 2002 and 2007. Based on an assessment of historical records and data collected during this study, flocks of >250 Purple Sandpipers have been reported from 48 sites along the Maine coast. The area from Isle au Haut to Swans Island along the midcoast supports the highest concentrations of wintering Purple Sandpipers in Maine and the largest wintering concentration of Histrionicus histrionicus (Harlequin Ducks) in eastern North America, highlighting the potential importance of this geographic region.
3858539|We observed foraging behavior of the crab spider Misumenops asperatus Hentz in Princeton, MA. This spider is a classic sit-and-wait predator that can move among foraging patches scattered within its environment. In our study, patches were composed of stems of goldenrod (Solidago rugosa P. Mill.) that had different numbers of inflorescence plumes (our measure of patch quality), which potential insect prey visit. Spiders made foraging decisions in two distinct ways. First, they most often hunted on high quality patches. Second, spiders foraging on high quality patches remained on their patches longer than spiders on medium or low quality patches. It appears that M. asperatus is basing its foraging decisions at least in part on assessment of a parameter in its environment that may correlate with prey abundance, without directly assessing prey arrival rates. Based on these behavioral patterns, we suggest that this spider is following a fixed probability of moving rule in deciding when to leave a patch.
3858419|Thirty-four species of molluscs have been found in the drainage systems of the United States Military Academy at West Point, NY. A few rare species were found as well as a single specimen of a presumed new gastropod taxon. Only two species of unionids, Pyganodon cataracta and Elliptio complanata, were found within the drainages. The largest drainage system, Popolopen Brook, contained the highest diversity of molluscs. Species redundancy between drainages aligned well as a function of the extent of lentic and lotic habitats with brooks and streams having a Bray-Curtis similarity index of  64.0 when compared to lakes and ponds. On the other hand, a number of species collected were found in only a single drainage. Total drainage area did not correspond well with diversity unless determined as total predicted usable habitat. Thus the drainages with the greatest number of discernible lakes, ponds, streams, and creeks, also had the highest molluscan diversity. On the whole, molluscan diversity of these drainages compared favorably to those of other regional New York sites, but relative abundance or population densities varied, with variations reflecting survey effort, time or season of collections, and incorporation of historic museum collections.
4131011| The Flint Woods Preserve is known to contain rare species of vascular flora, yet no bryological survey has previously been performed. Bryophytes (mosses, liverworts, and hornworts) are are sensitive to changes in the environment and serve as biological indicators. The objectives of this study were to determine the diversity of bryophytes among habitats and to identify species associations, as compared to known European associations. The similarity of species occurrences among and within habitats and substrates was assessed using the Jaccard index and calculated  diversity. Associations among species and between growth form or life strategy and habitat or substrate were assessed by a two-way contingency table with Fisher's exact test. Thirty-eight species of Bryophyta and Marchantiophyta were found, including four rare species: Dicranum fulvum, Fissidens bushii, Ctenidium malacodes, and Ptilidium pulcherrimum. Seventy-five percent of the species were exclusively epigaeic or occurred on multiple substrates, while only one species was exclusively corticolous. Eleven positive species associations were found, none of which match known European associations. No negative species associations, no associations with life strategy and habitat or substrate, and few associations with growth form and habitat or substrate were observed. 
27744560|West Virginia's crayfishes have received moderate attention since publication of Jezerinac et al.'s (1995) monograph of the state fauna. Survey efforts were initiated over the summers of 2006 and 2007 to gather voucher material for the Indians Biological Survey's Crustacean Collection. These collections have provided new information regarding the distribution, natural history, life history, taxonomy, and conservation status of Cambarus (Cambarus) carinirostris, C. (C.) bartonii cavatus, C. (C.) sciotensis, C. (Hiaticambarus) chasmodactylus, C. (H.) elkensis, C. (H.) longulus, C. (Jugicambarus) dubius, C. (Puncticambarus) robustus, Orconectes (Procericambarus) cristavarius, and O. (P.) rusticus. Orconectes (Faxonius) limosus has apparently been extirpated from West Virginia and should be removed from the state's list of extant crayfishes.
10.2307/3858701|Prey selection and consumption of common molluscs and macroalgae by the Asian shore crab, Hemigrapsus sanguineus, were investigated in the laboratory. Crabs of three size classes (12-18, 19-25, 26-31 mm carapace width) collected from the rocky intertidal from May to November 1998, and were offered three mollusc species: the mussel Mytilus edulis, the clam Mercenaria mercenaria, and the snail Littorina littorea. Equal numbers of prey from three size classes or two species were offered concurrently to individual crabs. Crabs consumed small molluscs, large males opening larger molluscs than did females and smaller males. Male crabs consumed both mussels and clams. Females opened only mussels, but ate flesh from previously opened clams. Very few L. littorea were consumed. The macroalgae Codium fragile ssp. tomentosoides, Enteromorpha spp., Chondrus crispus, Fucus spp., and Ascophyllum nodossum were presented to individual crabs separately to determine consumption rates and together to ascertain species preference. Crabs preferred the green algae C. fragile ssp. tomentosoides and Enteromorpha spp.
25177106|Standardized mist-netting protocols set guidelines regarding the best way to sample a bat species or community. We evaluated the current mist-netting guidelines designed to determine presence or absence of endangered, Myotis sodalis (Indiana bat). This test was conducted in Deer Ridge Conservation Area (Lewis County, northeastern Missouri), an area known to have an abundance of Indiana bats, including several primary maternity colonies. We mist-netted according to recommended guidelines for Indiana bats for two consecutive nights at three different times during the reproductive season. Anabat II detectors were used in conjunction with mist nets to sample bat activity at the same locations. Captures and detections of Indiana bats and other species of bats varied substantially among the sampling periods. In addition, there was a significant decrease in number of Indiana bats captured with mist nets from night one to night two, although activity levels remained the same. Finally, our data show that augmenting mist nets with ultrasonic detectors can enhance the probability of determining the presence or absence of Indiana bats.
27744601|Determining planktonic larval species composition and abundance data can serve to elucidate local patterns of distribution, determine an area's importance as a nursery ground, and help clarify broad-scale trends of adult distribution and spawning ranges. Although the Saco River and estuary is the fourth largest water-way system in Maine, this ecosystem has remained relatively unstudied over the last thirty years, and research describing the temporal ichthyoplankton composition and distribution is virtually absent. The present study examined the structure of the ichthyoplankton community and determined the temporal and spatial variation in species diversity and abundance within the Saco Bay estuary system. Weekly sampling trips during the months of June, July, and August in 2007 revealed ten species of ichthyoplankton present in the study area. Ulvaria subbifurcata (Radiated Shanny) and Tautogolabrus adsperus (Cunner) dominated the abundance data followed by Hippoglossoides platessoides (American Plaice) and Myoxocephalus octodecimspinosus (Longhorn Sculpin).
4499897|To assess the community-level responses of a New England forest to invasion by the Eurasian biennial Alliaria petiolata (garlic mustard), we conducted a vegetation census at twenty-four plots ranging from low to high invasive cover, and experimentally removed 0, 50, or 100% of garlic mustard from adjacent highly invaded plots at the same study site. Species richness did not respond to natural or experimental levels of invasion, but the Shannon diversity and equitability indices declined with increasing in situ densities of garlic mustard, and increased in response to removal of garlic mustard at the experimental plots. Individual species demonstrated variable responses to high-, intermediate-, and low-level invasion. Of all plant functional groups, tree seedlings declined most notably with increasing in situ levels of invasion. This functional group, and seedlings of three key canopy tree species within the group, increased in response to partial, but not full eradication of garlic mustard. Our results demonstrate that the effectiveness of full or partial removal depends on management priorities for promoting overall diversity, species richness, native species composition, and/or individual species performance within native communities.
41429420|Notophthalmus viridescens (Red-spotted Newt) collected from 3 low-pH ponds (ca. 4.8) and 3 high-pH ponds (ca. 8.1) in Vermont varied in pH tolerance and water preference. While newts from all ponds survived in pH values as low as 4.4, the mean 10-day survival of newts in pH = 3.2 was 69% for newts from the low-pH Green Mountain ponds compared to 33% for newts from the high-pH Taconic Mountain ponds. Taconic Mountain newts selected water from Taconic ponds 73% of the time, while Green Mountain newts exhibited no preference for pond water from either mountain range. In order to isolate the effect of pH on water choice, we conducted an experiment in which newts chose between reconstituted soft water (RSW) that had been adjusted to either high pH (8.0) or low pH (4.5). Taconic Mountain newts selected high-pH RSW 72% of the time. Although Green Mountain newts exhibited no preference for pond water having high or low pH, they selected the high-pH RSW 70% of the time. These differences in pH tolerance and water preference between Green and Taconic Mountain newts may represent local adaptation shaping population distribution and divergence.
10.2307/3858562|This investigation compared soil hydrology and solution chemistry in two unmanaged northern forested minerotrophic wetlands at Penobscot Experimental Forest, Bradley, Maine over the course of three growing seasons. Objectives of the study were: (1) to characterize variations in shallow water-table levels during the growing season in both forested wetlands and (2) to determine the influence of hydrologic variations and seasonal drought on concentrations of dissolved organic carbon and inorganic nitrogen in the upper saturated zone of the forested wetland ecosystems. Hydrologic conditions in 1993-1995 varied from standing surface water in spring and fall to maximum mean daily water-table depths of -46 to -69 cm in the two wetlands during the 1995 drought. Cumulative water-table recession over the growing season reached a maximum in September, when mean monthly water-table depths averaged -29 cm and -45 cm at the two respective study sites. Variations in dissolved organic carbon in shallow groundwater were inversely correlated with water-table depth, whereas ammonium concentrations were positively correlated with water-table depth at the forested wetland sites.
40664886|Martes americana (American Marten) is reported to eat a diverse diet, including mammals, invertebrates, and plants. Despite this variety, we found no reference to tree sap in its diet. Here, we describe two separate incidents of an American Marten feeding on sap from active sap wells made by Sphyrapicus varius L. (Yellow-bellied Sapsucker). To our knowledge, these are the first recorded observations of martens feeding on sap from sap wells.
3858634|The family Notonectidae occurs throughout North America and has been previously reported from all provinces and territories in Canada (except Nunavut) and 48 of the United States (only New Hampshire and Alaska lacked records). We report this family from New Hampshire for the first time. It is represented by 10 species in two genera: Buenoa confusa, B. limnocastoris, B. macrotibialis, B. margaritacea, Notonecta insulata, N. irrorata, N. petrunkevitchi, N. lunata, N. uhleri, and N. undulata. A list of additional species that may occur in the state is also provided.
10.2307/3858655|Seven bat species have been recorded in Nova Scotia, but little information is available on their relative abundance, ecology, and migratory patterns. In the summer of 2001 we used echolocation and trapping surveys at Kejimkujik National Park, Brier Island and Bon Portage Island to help fill this information gap. Our results suggest that significant populations of Myotis septentrionalis, M. lucifugus and Pipistrellus subflavus occur in the province. Although we note the first breeding record of the red bat (Lasiurus borealis) in Atlantic Canada, survey results suggest this species is probably rare and that previous records were probably extralimital. Fewer than five echolocation sequences were attributable to each of hoary bat (L. cinereus) and silver-haired bat (Lasionycteris noctivagans) suggesting that Nova Scotia is at, or beyond, the northern fringe of the range of these species. We recorded three or fewer echolocation sequences of the big brown bat (Eptesicus fuscus), however, further work should be done in more human-populated areas to confirm the distributional range of this species. At Kejimkujik National Park, we captured Myotis septentrionalis (n = 26), M. lucifugus (n = 17), and Pipistrellus subflavus (n = 3). Despite lower capture success of P. subflavus, echolocation surveys suggest that this species is locally abundant. These records may represent the most northerly breeding population of this species and is the first noted, and maybe only, breeding population of this species in Canada. Poor trapping success for this species is likely the result of its foraging behaviour (i.e., flying high over open areas). On Brier Island we captured only two M. lucifugus and no echolocation sequences were identified as P. subflavus. The magnitude of all species activity at the still water site on Brier Island was one-third the average magnitude of activity at still water sites at Kejimkujik National Park. We captured and/or recorded M. septentrionalis only along forested trails, P. subflavus only over water, and M. lucifugus at all site-types. The overall nightly activity pattern of M. lucifugus was characteristic of the activity pattern of Myotis spp. recorded in other areas, with a peak in activity just after sunset followed by a progressive decline in activity through the remainder of the night. However, P. subflavus activity was more constant through the night.
10.2307/3858561|We conducted a statistical analysis of breeding census data from the first 8 years (1989-1996) of the Vermont Forest Bird Monitoring Program (FBMP). Data were collected at 17 study sites located in large tracts (=40.5 ha) of mature, forested habitats in Vermont. A route regression model was used to produce population trends for 67 species and 3 groups of species categorized by wintering range. Power analyses conducted for 4 species revealed that the FBMP adequately sampled species which occurred on at least 9 or more of the 17 study sites and that our ability to detect small (=2%) population changes will increase dramatically after 15 years of monitoring. FBMP data showed significant declines in breeding populations of black-capped chickadee, solitary vireo, and Canada warbler, but a significant increase in rose-breasted grosbeak. When species were categorized by wintering range, neotropical migrants showed a significant overall increase and year-round residents declined. The negative trend for Canada warbler, corroborated by Breeding Bird Survey (BBS) data and migration monitoring data from Long Point Bird Observatory in Ontario, suggest that this species is experiencing widespread declines over a significant portion of its breeding range. Rates of population change in FBMP data were poorly correlated to BBS trends. We found significant positive correlations between Vermont's average winter temperatures and the relative abundances of brown creeper, downy woodpecker, and for all resident species combined. We evaluated the number of brown-headed cowbird occurrences by study site and physiographic region. Most cowbirds (95.3%) occurred at FBMP sites located in the predominately agricultural Champlain Lowlands, suggesting that even relatively large forested tracts in this region may be subject to high rates of cowbird parasitism.
10.2307/3858439|Forty-five freshwater gastropod species have been reported from Maine. The taxonomic status of seven of these mollusks is questionable. These snails represent three prosobranch (Viviparidae, Valvatidae, Hydrobiidae) and four pulmonate (Lymnaeidae, Physidae, Planorbidae, Ancylidae) families. Nine species and varieties have their type localities in Maine. Only one of the state's freshwater gastropods, Cipangopaludina chinensis malleata, is an alien species. Thirty-four freshwater snail species have been reported from Aroostook County. Campeloma decisum has been found in all 16 of Maine's counties.
4499910|Hemigrapsus sanguineus (Asian shore crab) first arrived at Rye, NY in 1994. The intertidal abundances of H. sanguineus, Carcinus maenas (green crab), and the native crabs Eurypanopeus depressus (flatback mud crab), Cancer irroratus (Atlantic rock crab), and Libinia emarginata (spider crab) were censused from 1998-2005. Asian shore crab densities (estimated in June) increased from 1998-2001 to ca.
27744551|We used remote cameras to detect Lynx canadensis (Canada Lynx) in northern Maine during JulyOctober 2005. A total of 1680 animal images was collected in 2512 camera-days of effort. Forty-five lynx detections were recorded, at a detection rate of 2 animals/100 camera-days of effort. Our analysis provides baseline detection rates for lynx in northern Maine and recommendations regarding survey design for other biologists. We suggest remote cameras are useful to survey lynx occurrence in an occupancy-estimation and -modeling framework, and in areas where snow-tracking surveys are not practical.
10.2307/3858450|We report our observations of a large migratory flight of monarch butterflies (Danaus plexippus L.) and dragonflies (Anax junius Drury, Tramea lacerata Hagen) in central New Jersey and review what is currently known about these migratory movements in eastern North America. The migration followed the passage of Hurricane Floyd, one of the strongest coastal storms to cross New Jersey during the twentieth century. Our observations suggest that weather conditions associated with this storm may have signaled the onset of the migration we recorded.
25177067|Sixteen Acer rubrum (red maple)-dominated wetlands in three hydrogeomorphic settings (depressional, riverine, seepage slope) were sampled in southeastern Massachusetts. Quantitative data of vegetation from five strata were compared with soil-chemistry measurements using detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) to determine if hydrogeomorphic (HGM) setting was related to species composition. Although all sampled wetlands were dominated or co-dominated by red maple, DCA-differentiated stands according to HGM setting, i.e., riverine floodplain wetlands separated from depressional (kettle) wetlands and slope wetlands on the DCA ordination. Further, species richness was lowest in depressional wetlands and highest in riverine wetlands, reflecting differences in soil chemistry and soil type, ultimately determined by hydrogeomorphic setting. Depressional swamps overwhelmingly dominated by red maple and those with Chamaecyparis thyoides (Atlantic white cedar [AWC]) were very similar in understory composition, soil chemistry and type, and ordination position, suggesting that many of the red maple depressions were probably once AWC swamps. Post-colonial forest-management practices such as repeated cutting of stands, fire suppression, draining for conversion to cranberry bog, and subsequent abandonment have degraded and fragmented AWC swamps throughout southeastern Massachusetts and extensively reduced their areal extent. However, recent abandonments of cranberry bogs have provided opportunities for restoring AWC wetlands to a portion of their original habitat.
41315936|East Foundry Cove and Constitution Marsh are located on the east side of the Hudson River, 85 km upriver from lower Manhattan. Between 1965 and 1971, Marathon Battery Company discharged an estimated 51,004 kg of particulate cadmium, and 1569 kg of soluble cadmium were discharged directly into East Foundry Cove, which became a Superfund site in 1994. Dredging and restoration of East Foundry Cove were completed in 1996. Cadmium concentrations were reduced from greater than 900 mg/kg to less than 3 mg/kg in East Foundry Cove. Constitution Marsh and South Cove were not included in Superfund restoration. For this study, 738 surface sediment samples were collected from 15 sampling sites on 8 occasions from 18 September 1997 to 30 October 1998. Diatoms were identified and enumerated for each collected sample. These data were analyzed using Bray-Curtis similarity, MDS ordination, analysis of similarity (ANOSIM), and similarity of percentages (SIMPER). Cadmium concentrations (mg/kg) were also determined for each sample. Results show the communities of diatoms were different in two stations (1 and 3) in East Foundry Cove from the remainder of the stations in the study. However, one East Foundry Cove station (2) was more similar to the stations in South Cove and the southern stations of Constitution Marsh. Three of the most abundant taxa, Navicula gregaria, Cyclotella meneghiniana, and Cocconeis placentula var. lineata, were present in similar proportions at all sampling sites. Navicula gregaria, however, occurred in greater relative abundance at stations 4 and 5 and in Constitution Marsh, adjacent to restored East Foundry Cove, than in any other stations.
41684249|The forests of the northeastern United States have become less contiguous and vigorous over the last century due to threats including acid rain, ice storm damage, and forest diseases. Often, trees have become the targets of widescale disease and pest outbreaks. Beech bark disease has been successful because of the effectiveness of the scale insect Crypto co ecus fagisuga and the opportunistic Nectria coccinea var. faginata fungal vector. Since the severity of beech bark disease negatively affects mast production and canopy turnover, the abundance of small-mammal and insect populations can be limited. We explored the effects of beech bark disease, as well as other abiotic factors, on the diversity of small-mammal and invertebrate populations. We expected that biodiversity would vary according to disease severity in Fagus grandifolia (American Beech) stands, such that higher biodiversity and more seed predators would be noted in healthier forests. At sites in New York and Vermont, Sherman and pitfall traps were used to capture mammals and invertebrates, respectively. Correlations between tree size and disease severity levels were quantified by noting the diameter at breast height (dbh) and by ranking according to disease intensity levels. Although biodiversity indices were not significantly different among sites, there were significant differences in dbh (F = 3.48, P = 0.0154, d.f. = 3) and disease intensity levels (F = 21.13, P < 0.0001, d.f. = 3). Surprisingly in 2008, beechnut seed production was greatest in the Catskill Mountains of New York, the site with the greatest disease manifestation. Mammal richness was highest at the Champlain Valley site where there were fewer Napaeozapus insignius (Woodland Jumping Mice). Patterns of small-mammal abundance at the stand level, elucidated in canonical correspondence analyses, were explained in part by land-use history, soil characteristics, elevation, recent cutting, temperature, and precipitation in 2007. Invertebrate family richness was greatest in the Adirondacks of New York as compared to other sites. At the site level, beechnut density, land-use history, and soil order were the most important variables explaining variation in invertebrate assemblages. Results from this study show that patterns of biodiversity cannot be directly explained by disease and beech mast alone in the short-term. Rather, multi-year community dynamics must be measured.
10.2307/3858595|Trilobodrilus hermaphroditus n. sp. is described from shallow subtidal sand in Massachusetts Bay, and unlike other members of the genus, it is hermaphroditic. A second, but undescribed species of Trilobodrilus, morphologically similar to a species reported from European North Atlantic beaches, is commonly encountered in coarse-sand beaches along the New England coast. Other dinophilids and interstitial polycheates collected from this coast are reported.
4130731|Many changes have taken place in Amazonas Province of Venezuela, since Alexander von Humboldt's trip to the region. The most important changes today are in the way that land, which is inhabited by indigenous peoples, is being developed. There is an emphasis on small-scale, non-exploitative, sustainable agriculture, and on forest industries that are locally owned and operated. Cooperation with and protection of indigenous peoples and their environment, as opposed to the devastation caused by large-scale corporate industry, is of the utmost importance. This is very much in keeping with the legacy of Alexander von Humboldt.
41429415|Selective browsing by Odocoileus virginianus (White-tailed Deer) has shifted plant communities in the Northeast, but the effects of seed dispersal by deer on forest seed banks are unknown. We used data from deer exclosures in hunted and unhunted properties in southeastern New York to determine whether deer browsing and different deer management histories have altered composition and/or abundance of forest saplings and seed banks. Results indicate that deer did not alter species richness, abundance, or composition in seed banks in either hunted or unhunted areas. Deer did, however, decrease sapling density and richness at the unhunted site but not at the hunted site. We conclude that impacts of unmanaged deer populations are greater on sapling recruitment than on seed banks.
41429239|Tardigrada (water bear) is a phylum of microscopic animals commonly found n mosses, lichens, leaf litter, and freshwater. Over 200 species of water bear are known to occur in North America; 99 species have been reported from northeastern North America. In lichen and leaf-litter samples from Bar Harbor, Hancock County, ME (a state for which only one species of tardigrade, Thulinius augusti, has hitherto been reported), eleven species of water bear were present: Echiniscus mero kensis, Milnesium tardigradum, Ramazzottius baumanni, R. oberhaeuseri, Diphascon (Diphascon) nodulosum, D. (Adropion) prorsirostre, Astatumen trinacriae, Macrobiotus harmsworthi, Macrobiotus hufelandi, Minibiotusfurcatus, and Minibiotus intermedius. All have previously been reported from other states and provinces in northeastern North America, but are new records for Maine.
10.2307/3858672|The Ring-billed Gull (Larus delawarensis) experienced a significant contraction of its range from the Great Lakes eastward during the nineteenth century, but it staged a remarkable recovery in the late twentieth century that continues to the present. A rapid increase in population size in Maine, indexed by Christmas Bird Counts and field sighting data, occurred from the early 1970s through the 1990s. The timing of population growth in Maine closely paralleled the growth and spread of breeding populations along the St. Lawrence River in Qubec, and eastward into the Maritimes. At this time, Ring-billed Gulls also began to appear in greater numbers during summer on interior lakes in Maine. Breeding colonies are now known on two inland lakes.
10.2307/3858372|Two species of sculpins (Cottidae), the grubby, Myoxocephalus aenaeus, and the shorthorn sculpin, M. scorpius, were studied in rocky tidepools along the coast of Maine. Fishes were captured and measured during 116 sampling trips between 1979 and 1996. Both of these species of sculpins are from the northwestern Atlantic Ocean and are present in tidepools nearly every month of the year and are the only fish species found in Maine tidepools during winter. Both sculpin species are important components of tidepool ecosystems and dominate the rocky tidepool fish communities from late autumn to early spring, a time when other fish species decline in abundance or are absent. There was no apparent relationship between sculpin abundance and salinity, but the two species of Myoxocephalus were encountered in water temperatures of 1.5 to 18.9C, with 55.0% of the shorthorn sculpins and 57.3% of the grubbies encountered in tidepools where water temperatures ranged from 12 to 15C. Between 1988 and 1996, 102 individuals from both species were marked. Of these, 21.3% were recaptured, some repeatedly in the same tidepools and even at specific locations within tidepools over successive tidal cycles--an indication of homing behavior.
25177140|Stream fish survey data were analyzed to describe patterns of fish distributions in wadeable streams (primarily 1st-4th order) in Connecticut. Species occurrence within the United States Geological Survey 8-digit hydrologic unit code watersheds were used to aggregate similar watersheds into stream fish faunal regions. Within each identified region, multivariate analyses were used to identify major fish assemblage types and associate stream habitat with assemblage types. The analyses revealed an eastern and western faunal region defined primarily by distribution of a few native species. Native species associated with the western watersheds were: Semotilus atromaculatus (Creek Chub), Exoglossum maxillingua (Cutlips Minnow), and Cottus cognatus (Slimy Sculpin). Native fishes associated with the eastern watersheds were: Erimyzon oblongus (Creek Chubsucker), Esox niger (Chain Pickerel), and Esox americanus (Redfin Pickerel). Inclusion of non-indigenous species in the analyses resulted in a similar east-west grouping of watersheds. Five and four assemblage types were identified in the eastern and western faunal regions, respectively. Both regions harbored 3 fluvial assemblages defined longitudinally from headwater streams to larger wadeable streams and a macro-habitat generalist assemblage inhabiting streams with proportionately more pool habitat, but taxonomic membership and indicator species rankings among assemblages were not necessarily identical between the regions. A distinct assemblage dominated by Redfin Pickerel was recognized only in the eastern region. Streams in the western region were generally higher in elevation and colder in water temperature. The discovery and description of eastern and western fish faunal regions and their fish assemblage types will be useful in stratifying the biological monitoring of streams and other aquatic resource management actions in Connecticut.
10.2307/3858583|Long-term data have been used to evaluate complex, environmental problems, such as the anthropogenic acidification of regional landscapes by acid rain, and to quantify changes in ecosystem function associated with large-scale land use, such as forest harvesting and development. In this paper, we discuss the importance of long-term monitoring in addressing regional environmental issues by examining two examples of anthropogenic stress--acid rain and forest harvesting. We also suggest that a watershed-ecosystem approach is useful for understanding, and for managing, the potential synergistic effects of chemical and vegetational changes in forest ecosystems in the north-eastern U.S.
10.2307/3858437|Two species of aquatic beetle are reported from northern Cape Breton Island, Nova Scotia. Helophorus lineatus Say (Hydrophilidae) was not known from Atlantic Canada (except New Brunswick) whereas Dytiscus alaskanus Balfour-Browne (Dytiscidae) has not previously been reported from the Maritime Provinces. Both were collected in boggy barrens, the former found in streams and the latter in ponds.
41495829|Cerastium utriense Barberis (Caryophyllaceae) is an endemic plant growing on ultramafic outcrops in northwestern Italy. Despite its great phytogeographical importance, little is known about its ecological requirements and environmental range. Thus, the main objective of the present work was to examine and clarify these aspects. On the basis of a preliminary survey on its range, 28 plots were sampled, and Ellenberg ecological indices of the flora growing with C. utriense were defined. Furthermore, on the basis of the floristic diversity and physical, chemical, and biological properties of the soils, 10 of these plots were selected and more closely investigated. This preliminary study characterized C. utriense as a strictly Ni-excluding serpentinophyte with no apparent relationship with typical chemical characteristics of serpentine soils. On the contrary, the species showed a direct association with physical traits typical of serpentine substrates.
27744564|Oligostomis ocelligera (a phryganeid caddisfly) is reported for the first time from a degraded lotic systema first-order stream in north-central Pennsylvania that was severely impacted by acid mine drainage. Although uncommonly collected and poorly known, O. ocelligera maintained a substantial population in the mine discharge, free of competition from Plecoptera, Ephemeroptera, and other species of Trichoptera. It thrived under conditions of very low pH (2.583.13), high concentrations of sulfate (542 mg/L) and heavy metals (Fe 12 mg/L, Mn 14 mg/L, Al 16mg/L), and a nearly uniform springbrook-like temperature regime. More than 350 larvae were collected from deposits of leaves and woody detritus in a pool 0.32 km downstream from the mine entrance over a two-year period. Measurement of headcapsule widths yielded a multimodal distribution with five peaks, corresponding to five instars, in conformity with Dyar's Law. Eighty-three egg masses were observed along the stream channel from 3 June to 12 November at a mean distance of 6.1 cm above the water surface in moist, protected locations such as under moss mats or in crevices of logs. Eggs began hatching by mid-summer, first-instar larvae were present in samples from AugustOctober, all five instars were represented in October, instars IIV were still present in December, but only instars IV and V were represented in samples collected from March to July. The extended periods of oviposition and larval recruitment, together with a remarkably protracted flight period of six months (29 April30 October), led to the conclusion that the population of O. ocelligera at the mine site exhibited an asynchronous univoltine life cycle. Measurement of the width of the anterior border of the frontoclypeal apotome confirmed Wiggins' proposal that this metric is useful for distinguishing final instar larvae of O. ocelligera from its only Nearctic congener, O. pardalis. Occupied pupal cases were found embedded in sodden logs from 8 April to 10 June. Pupae had mandibles reduced to membranous lobes. A silken mesh closing the anterior end case of the pupal case is reported for the first time in O. ocelligera, representing the third evolutionary reversal for this behavioral character in the phylogeny of phryganeid genera proposed by Wiggins. Adults exhibited only diurnal flight, and were absent from light traps deployed on five nights. Females displayed more cryptic behavior, and their wing pattern was distinctly duller in color than males.
40664874|Way et al. (2010) define a "coywolf' population in the northeastern United States and eastern Canada that originated through hybridization between Canis lycaon (Eastern Wolf) and Canis latrans (Coyote), but they maintain that it is now genetically uniform and only minimally influenced by either parental species.An alternative interpretation of available data is that this northeastern Coyote population is genetically diverse, substantially more Coyote than Eastern Wolf in its genetic composition, and part of a larger population of Coyotes that interbreeds with a hybrid Coyote/Eastern Wolf population in southern Ontario and western Coyotes in western New York and Pennsylvania.
4131002|A Petromyzon marinus (sea lamprey) was observed attached to an approximately 3-m fork length, male Somniosus microcephalus (Greenland shark) on 9 October 2004 in Baie St. Pancrace, St. Lawrence Estuary, PQ. This is the first report of a sea lamprey attached to a member of Somniosidae.
3858688|To assess the impact of clam digging on benthic macroinvertebrate community structure, field and laboratory experiments were performed for a mudflat in midcoast Maine. After a five-month period, a significant difference was observed in abundance of the amphipod Corophium volutator among undisturbed plots and plots subjected to different digging disturbance frequencies. In the laboratory, a significantly greater number of individuals of C. volutator established in undisturbed, stable sediment than in disturbed sediment over a five-day period.
43287093|Umbra pygmaea (Eastern Mudminnow) is a freshwater species common in Atlantic slope coastal lowlands from southern New York to northern Florida and is typical of slow-moving, mud-bottomed, and highly vegetated streams, swamps, and small ponds. We examined its seasonal food habits at the Great Swamp National Wildlife Refuge (NWR), NJ and at the Croatan National Forest, NC. A total of 147 Eastern Mudminnow from 35-112 mm TL and 190 Eastern Mudminnow from 22-89 mm TL were examined from these sites, respectively. At both locations, we found it to be a bottom-feeding generalist that consumes cladocerans, ostracods, chironomid larvae, coleopteran larvae, and other insects and crustaceans. Ostracods were most common in the diet at the Great Swamp NWR and occurred in 62%  2.5% of the stomachs with food. At Croatan National Forest, chironomid larvae were most common and occurred in 66.7%  15.8% of the stomachs. There were no statistically significant differences in diet composition between the sites during the winter, summer, and fall. However, when compared on an annual basis, Jaccard's Index (J = 0.636, P = 0.05) suggested that the diet at the two study sites was significantly different. While we identified the same major food groups at both locations, the utilization of these food groups varied seasonally. Detritus was a major stomach content at both locations throughout the year. We also documented cannibalism during the summer season at both locations. The seasonal diet of the Eastern Mudminnow was similar to that of Umbra limi (Central Mudminnow) and Umbra krameri (European Mudminnow). Our findings here are the first quantitative examinations of seasonal differences in the diet of the Eastern Mudminnow within its native North American range.
40959750|Salvelinus fontinalis (Brook Trout) are simultaneously the subject of eradication efforts in the western US and restoration efforts in the East. Thus, knowledge of their habitat requirements are important to management as well as ecological understanding of the species. Previous studies have evaluated habitat use and movement of established, resident Brook Trout, but none had looked at how transplanted Brook Trout respond in novel environments, nor has habitat selection been evaluated under different flow regimes that may detect differential use of primary habitat. We implanted wild Brook Trout with radio tags and tracked their movement for approximately 30 days during late spring 2002 and early spring 2003 in a central Appalachian stream. The hypotheses tested were: (1) there is no difference between habitat used by novel Brook Trout and available habitat, and (2) stream discharge levels have no effect on Brook Trout habitat selection. The daily tracking of fish in this study also permitted us to quantify fish movement. Brook Trout showed a preference for pool habitatsusing them in greater proportion than availabilityas well as a preference for large woody debris as cover. Overall, we found stream discharge did not affect habitat use. However, under low discharge levels, a negative relationship between discharge and pool use was detected, suggesting restriction to pool habitats under low flows. Home ranges of Brook Trout derived from radio telemetry averaged 450 msimilar to values obtained in other Appalachian studies employing mark-and-recapture methods. A comparison of our results with those of other studies suggests that Brook Trout released into novel environments move and select habitat similar to fish that have local knowledge of the environment.
43288171|We report the observation of an albino male Tamiasciurus hudsonicus (Red Squirrel) from Sainte-Luce in eastern Quebec, Canada. While occurrences of entirely albino individuals have been sporadically reported in the wild in other sciurid species, true albinism is rare in T. hudsonicus. That albino sciurids can survive in the wild may be related to their relatively minor visual deficits compared to other albino mammals, which experience a greater loss of vision. The lack of pigmentation, however, may be a major disadvantage in the wild for the Red Squirrel, which is a diurnal and arboreal prey species. In conjunction with the recessive nature of albinism, it is not surprising that albino individuals are rarely reported for this species.
41495806|In the serpentine area in Hokkaido, 46 taxa of serpentine plant species were recognized, and 44 of them were endemic to Hokkaido. The P concentration in the serpentine plants was lower, while the concentrations of K, Ca, and N were higher, than those in nonserpentine plants and trees. The Ni concentration of the serpentine plants increased proportionally to that of the exchangeable Ni concentration in the soil up to 10 mg kg soil, but did not increase further. Among the plants investigated, a nonserpentine plant, Thlaspi japonicum, was recognized for its extraordinary Ni accumulation (1300 mg kg on average), indicating that this plant is the first Ni-hyperaccumulator identified in Japan.
25177087|Morphology is one of the most common methods used to identify among congeneric species, but its use can be problematic when spatial patterns of phenotypic variability are unknown. We examine spatial variability in the morphology of two sympatric species of algae (Fucus vesiculosus and F. spiralis) on large (&gt;100 km) and small (&lt;10 km) scales and determine the extent to which they can be identified based on morphology. These species could generally be distinguished based on gross morphology on large spatial scales, but on small scales some individuals exhibited much overlap in the gross morphology. This finding is not surprising given that hybridization and introgression in these species is common. Although there were some consistent patterns in morphology between species, many were species-specific. Similarly, there were few common spatial patterns when individual measures of morphology were analyzed, suggesting that selective pressures may act on each species independently. These results have implications for the use of morphology in identifying congeneric species. Given the existence of individuals of intermediate morphology, it is likely that species are often misidentified when spatial variability in morphological distinctness is not considered. In particular, stipe width may prove to be a valuable predictor of species identification for non-reproductive and young individuals, as it was the only morphological variable to vary consistently between the species.
40664876|Peromyscus leucopus (White-footed Mouse) use the 3-dimensional space of their habitat. We studied whether Cuterebra fontinella (Bot Fly) larvae affected rate of capture in traps set above ground compared to traps set on the ground in deciduous forests in Ohio and Georgia. Rates of infestation were nearly three-fold greater in Ohio than in Georgia. Infested animals were captured equally in traps on the ground and in traps 1.5 m above ground in Ohio, but were captured less frequently in traps on the ground than in traps 1.5 m above ground in Georgia. Sex of animals did not affect these results. Infested animals were not captured in traps 4.5 m above the ground in Georgia, suggesting a possible limit to use of vertical habitat space by infested mice.
10.2307/3858374|A lake bioassessment integrity index (LBII) derived from 12 macroinvertebrate metrics was used to evaluate the biological integrity of 19 lakes in five New England States (Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and Vermont). Of the 19 lakes classified according to temperature and size (warm, small; warm, large; cold, small; cold, large), 15 lakes had anthropogenic disturbances (including residential, agricultural, silvercultural, and fish stocking), and one minimally disturbed reference lake was selected from each category. The bioassessment index successfully ranked the biological integrity for 17 of the 19 lakes. Index scores of anthropogenically disturbed lakes were significantly higher (P <0.05) than index scores of reference lakes with little disturbance in each temperature and size category, indicating that the index may be useful in separating impacted from non-impacted lakes in the New England States.
41684247|We evaluated the nesting ecology of Terrapene Carolina Carolina (Eastern Box Turtle) near their northern range limit in Massachusetts. We identified 34 nests in 2005 and 2006 at 4 study sites, and measured clutch size, nest success, hatchling size, and habitat characteristics at each site. Mean clutch size was 5.87 eggs, and egg survival was approximately 50% to hatching, excluding depredation. Large-bodied females tended to oviposit larger clutches than small-bodied females, although the correlation was not significant, and a smaller proportion of their eggs produced live hatchlings. Nest depredation varied greatly across sites from 0 to nearly 100%. The variability observed across the species' range and across sites underscores the importance of obtaining local information when developing conservation and management programs for rare turtles. The characteristics of the nest sites observed in our study could be simulated to more effectively create or maintain artificial nest sites for Eastern Box Turtles in the Northeast.
40664840|The objective of this paper is to examine the impacts of global climate change on Rhode Island's coastal ecosystems. Average annual air temperature in Rhode Island has increased by 1.7 C since 1880, water temperatures of Narragansett Bay have increased by 1.2 C since 1950, precipitation increased 27% between 1895 and 1999, and sea level rose 0.13 m between 1931 and 2007. We can already see the effects of these climatic changes on the Narragansett Bay ecosystem, including ecological changes in the Bay's food web from phytoplankton and zooplankton to fish, e.g., changes in phenology of seasonal phytoplankton blooms and dominant fish species (e.g., Pseudopleuronectes americanus [Winter Flounder]). These climatic changes have increased freshwater inputs and the concomitant pollutant loads into the Bay. Rising sea level has contributed to ongoing erosion of the coast and has put waterfront homes at increased risk. It is imperative to continue monitoring these effects.
41495819|Centuries of mining economically valuable minerals from serpentine have left a legacy of drastically disturbed landscape. Asbestos and nickel-laterite mining from serpentine is estimated to have degraded 11,130 and 19,070 ha, respectively, in 18 countries. Increasing mineral extraction, fueled by increasing global demand for industrial commodities, will continue to have devastating impacts on serpentine landscapes. Simultaneously, increasing environmental awareness is motivating nations to balance economic advancement with environmental protection. Revegetation of landscapes degraded by mining provides a way to address these issues. This review highlights some advances of the past decades in serpentine revegetation and ecology, and provides a framework of concepts, including physical stabilization, substrate amendment, and plant-materials selection, by which drastically disturbed serpentine substrates may be revegetated.
41495828|Ultramafic soils are widespread in the Balkans. Albania and Greece are the richest in the number of endemics, including several hyperaccumulator species, growing on serpentine. The objectives of this study were to understand the potential of Ni hyperaccumulation of these species in close relation with the characteristics of their native soil environments. Collection of both plant samples (analysis of element concentrations in aerial parts) and soil samples (analysis of total elements, DTPA-extractable Ni, Fe, and Ni distribution in mineral phases) allowed evaluation of phenotypic efficacy in hyperaccumulating Ni. Nickel availability in soils is controlled by soil weathering and mineral-bearing phases. Unsurprisingly, the highest levels of Ni availability were associated with amorphous Fe-oxides in moderately weathered Cambisols or with high-exchange capacity clays in wellevolved Vertisols. The highest Ni concentrations in leaves were found in Alyssum murale in Pojska (Albania; 2.0%), Alyssum markgrafii in Gjegjan (Albania; 1.9%), Bornmuellera baldacii subsp. markgrafii in Gramsh (Albania; 1.4%), and Leptoplax emarginata in Trgona (Greece; 1.4%). We identified a new member in the Albanian Ni-hyperaccumulator flora: Thlaspi ochroleucum in Pojska (Albania: 0.13% Ni) and in Pishkash (0.14% Ni). With regard to Ni availability in soils, A.markgrafii (Albania) is the most efficient Ni-hyperaccumulator among all species. Alyssum murale, which is widespread in the serpentines of the Balkans, accumulates Ni, with leaf concentration being negatively correlated to total Ca content of soils regardless of Ni availability (DTPA extractable Ni). If this relationship is confirmed, it would mean that genetic variability is not the main factor that explains the hyperaccumulation performance of this species.
3858333|Nine species of bat are known to occur across the six New England states, but most aspects of their natural history, such as foraging habitat use, are poorly understood. Recent published research has documented the importance of still-water habitats as foci of bat flight activity. To better understand and document habitat use in southern New England, we used the AnaBat II acoustical monitoring system to assess species composition and relative levels of summer flight activity. Active acoustic surveys were conducted in six habitat types on the Quabbin Reservation in central Massachusetts in 2003 and 2004. Bat flight activity, as measured by numbers of echolocation call sequences, was high, with an average of 24 search-phase and 4 feeding-buzz calls per 20-minute survey period. Myotis lucifugus (little brown bat) was the most commonly recorded species. Bat flight activity was high over all still-water habitats, but greatest over large ponds. Large-bodied bats, such as Eptesicus fuscus (big brown bat), were recorded more often in open, structurally uncluttered habitats. Of the small-bodied bats, little brown bats were ubiquitous, whereas Myotis septentrionalis (northern myotis) was most common in structurally cluttered habitats of seasonal forest (vernal) pools and along forest streams. Generalized habitat associations among the bat species we recorded are similar to those reported for other New England forest sites. The Quabbin Reservation is an excellent site to continue examining bat-habitat relationships because of the abundance and diversity of aquatic habitats, in both cluttered closed-canopy and uncluttered open-canopy settings.
10.2307/3858267|Abundance and habitat relationships of butterfly communities were examined at 15 sites divided into three different types of residential areas (n = 5 sites/type) in central Pennsylvania from May-September 1997. Seventeen species were noted at the 15 sites, with the two most abundant being non-native, cabbage whites (Pieris rapae, 69.2% of total) and orange sulfurs (Colias eurytheme, 10.0%). The most abundant native species was the monarch (Danaus plexippus, 7.5%). More butterfly species (n = 13 species) but a lower than expected number of individual butterflies of all species combined (P < 0.05) occurred in residential areas with established (homes > 30 years old) and native overstory trees than in the two other types of residential areas. Total species richness of butterflies was positively correlated with the number of homes per site (i.e., smaller lot size) (P < 0.05). On the other hand, the total number of butterflies of all species combined and the total number of cabbage whites were negatively correlated with the number of yards containing native overstory trees (P < 0.05). Compared to forested or agricultural landscapes in central Pennsylvania, the diversity and abundance of butterflies were relatively low in residential areas. In residential landscapes, however, a diverse butterfly community was characteristic of older, established neighborhoods characterized by smaller lot size and native overstory tree species. The planting of gardens containing both nectar sources and hostplants for butterflies will likely enhance their diversity and abundance in residential areas.
25177119|The seasonal habitat use of Salvelinus fontinalis (Brook Trout) and subyearling Salmo salar (Atlantic Salmon) was examined in Hart Brook, a tributary of Lake Ontario. Fish habitat use and available habitat were examined during summer and autumn. Interspecific differences in habitat use occurred as well as intraspecific seasonal differences. Overyearling Brook Trout were more selective in their habitat preferences than subyearling Brook Trout or juvenile Atlantic Salmon. Depth and the amount of cover were significantly different among the three fish groups. Salmon occupied faster and shallower water than either age group of trout. Atlantic Salmon were also associated with larger-sized substrate materials than either trout age group, and salmon occurred in habitats with less cover than trout. Overyearling Brook Trout occupied deeper water with more cover than subyearling trout. All three salmonid groups occupied areas with more cover in autumn compared to summer. In autumn, subyearling Brook Trout used deeper areas than they had in the summer. In Hart Brook, the habitat of subyearling Atlantic Salmon can be generally characterized as riffles, the habitat of overyearling Brook Trout was deep pools with extensive cover (35%), and that of subyearling trout was any area with moderate flow and at least 20% cover. As efforts proceed to reintroduce Atlantic Salmon in Lake Ontario, further research is needed to ensure the conservation of Brook Trout populations.
3858328|New England lands have a complex land-use history. The objective of this research was to determine how past agricultural practices and management history have affected soil properties in three forested areas in southeast New Hampshire. Four transects were established on each site, and moisture content, pH, microbial biomass, O horizon thickness, and A horizon organic matter content were measured. O and A horizon pH values increased with increasing intensity of past management, possibly due to past burning and liming associated with agriculture. A horizons were thicker and contained more soil organic matter at the sites that had been used for agriculture and O horizons were thickest at the least disturbed site, indicating that O and A horizons have different responses to past disturbance intensity. These results suggest that soil properties at these three sites still reflect their agricultural history, even more than 100 years after agricultural abandonment and reforestation.
4499901|We sampled 9 sites (5 free-flowing and 4 impounded) to investigate effects of lowhead dams on the habitat characteristics and the freshwater mussel assemblage of the Fox River in Illinois. We used 2 habitat indices, the Qualitative Habitat Evaluation Index (QHEI) and the Stream Habitat Assessment Protocol (SHAP), to determine effects of lowhead dams on habitat quality. Free-flowing sites had higher QHEI and SHAP scores than impounded sites, indicating higher quality stream habitat. We calculated 3 variables, catch-per-unit-effort (CPUE), extant species richness, and percent missing species, to establish effects of lowhead dams on freshwater mussels. Free-flowing sites had higher CPUE and extant species richness and lower percent missing species than impounded sites. We also examined literature reviews and museum collection holdings to determine species distributions within the basin. These data suggest that dams limit the upstream distribution of 5 species.
41684252|We evaluated the status offish communities from 30 first-to fourth-order wadeable Youghiogheny River (YR) tributaries located in the Allegheny Mountain Section (AMS) and Pittsburgh Low Plateau (PLP) physiographic provinces in Pennsylvania. The AMS is underlain primarily by geologic formations dominated by the Allegheny Group, while the Casselman Formation underlies much of the PLP. Streams draining the AMS were primarily forested, low-order (1-2), high-gradient, and poorly-buffered with minimal cultural influences. By contrast, the majority of the PLP was drained by low-gradient, well-buffered, valley streams of order 2, with varying anthropogenic influences. In order to characterize connectivity, all streams were sampled from their mainstream junctions to an endpoint 200 m upstream utilizing back-pack electrofishing. A total of 366 fishes representing seven families, 17 genera, and 22 species were collected from AMS streams, while the PLP yielded 2738 fishes representing 8 families, 25 genera, and 41 species. Five AMS streams and one from the PLP were fishless. The principal factors influencing fish distribution, species richness, and density on AMS streams were order, total alkalinity, and barriers to mainstem connectivity; in addition to stream order and total alkalinity, fish communities of the PLP were affected to varying degrees by cultural Stressors including surface mining and urbanization. This approach could be applied throughout the United States at regional appropriate scales to document Zoogeographie patterns offish distribution relative to contemporary and future anthropogenic influences.
3858463|A map of the vegetation of the Catskill Park, NY, was created using multi-temporal Landsat Thematic Mapper TM data and ancillary spatial data to support ecological studies in Catskill watersheds. The map emphasizes forest types defined by dominant tree species and depicts 24 vegetation classes. Mapping included a series of supervised classifications in a decision tree framework that allowed forest types to be distinguished using spectral characteristics and other environmental relationships (e.g., landscape position, elevation). Traditional contingency table analysis (based on limited ground sampling) suggests overall map accuracy ranging from 28% to 90%, depending on the level of aggregation of the original 24 map classes. Fuzzy accuracy assessment based on the same ground data suggests a 71% level of acceptable classification. The map indicates that maple-dominated forests are predominant in the Catskill region, but that beech and birch-dominated forests become more important at higher elevations. Oak-dominated forests are very important along the eastern side of the Catskills, and conifer-dominated forests are largely restricted to mountaintops and stream bottoms.
25177068|Studies of forested rural watersheds provide estimates of background contamination for comparison with streams and rivers in other settings. We performed a landscape analysis and measured major dissolved ions and benthic macroinvertebrates for a small rural watershed in Albany County, NY, to determine spatial variation in water quality. An estimated 73% of the surface cover is post-agricultural forest, with only 2.3% of the watershed covered by roads and other impervious surfaces. Although water quality was consistently high in most of the creek, we detected three relatively distinct zones separated by impoundments; zonation was most apparent in relative concentrations of major ions, less so with benthic macroinvertebrate community similarity. At ten sample stations, buffer size, measured as upstream land cover and distance to nearest road, did not correlate well with chemical water quality indicators. In particular, we found the highest levels of chloride, indicative of road-salt contamination, in areas of maximum forest buffer. Small feeder creeks that drain nearby roads may function as "leaks" in otherwise well-buffered watersheds with low road densities.
10.2307/3858358|We monitored amphibian movements from 5 March to 11 October 1998 at a 0.16 ha seasonally flooded pond in southern Rhode Island. We documented 5,122 capture events representing six species of anurans and four species of caudates. Using mark-recapture models, we estimated breeding population sizes [e.g., 181 adult spotted salamanders (Ambytoma maculatum) and 753 adult wood frogs (Rana sylvatica)] and densities (1,131 adult A. maculatum per ha and 4,706 adult R. sylvatica per ha) for five species. Amphibians were captured every month the pond was monitored. Adults primarily immigrated to the pond from early March through May, with peak numbers during March and April. Juveniles departed the pond from June through September, with most individuals emigrating in July and August.
10.2307/3858344|Historic information, museum collections, and the shells and stomach anatomy of Pyganodon collected from Maine were compared in order to draw conclusions on the occurrence or absence of P. fragilis (Newfoundland floater) in Maine. Stomach anatomy did not differentiate among the Pyganodon specimens, although a distinction in the rightside sorting area was made between P. cataracta (eastern floater) and Anodonta implicata (alewife floater). Coloration of the periostracum was variable, was determined to be closely associated with environmental conditions, and was not diagnostic among P. cataracta populations. Examination of historic museum specimens, specifically beak sculpture, indicates that Maine P. cataracta was previously misidentified as P. fragilis. This suggests that based on adult morphology, P. fragilis has yet to be found in Maine.
3858295|The status of the mussel community of Ohio Brush Creek and its tributaries in southeastern Ohio was evaluated over a 17-year period. Species richness increased from 16 and 20 species found in 1996 and 1987, respectively, to 23 found in 2004. Despite the increase in species richness, the abundance of live and freshly dead shells declined, particularly for common species. Community structure changed from one dominated by a few abundant species to a more evenly distributed community composed of a greater number of species with lower abundances. Further work is needed to determine if changes in abundance are due to mortality, lack of recruitment, or are simply a reflection of variability in population size and sampling.
10.2307/3858587|The study of history, human or otherwise, is really the study of change, the processes by which change is effected, and the effects of change. Change is normal in ecosystems. Measurement of change is scale dependent in both time and space. In nature, change occurs relatively continuously, though at varying rates and multiple spatial scales. The balance of nature, a philosophical construct that dates back to largely incorrect assumptions, is an artifact of scale as it relates to human intuitive perception. It is not real. The paradigm now accepted by most ecologists is that periodic disturbance at multiple scales is the most important determining factor in structuring ecosystems. The history of bird and mammal populations of eastern forests strongly supports this newly emerging paradigm.
3858329|Although visibility of nest boxes may be important in nest-box selection for birds, there has been little investigation of this topic. Sixteen wooden nest boxes designed for passerines were placed on each of three islands (Middle, Buckley, and Muskingum) of the Ohio River in 2000, eight on the back channel side and eight on the navigational side. The objectives of this study were to determine the effects of nest-box placement and surrounding habitat characteristics on nest-box use. During the 2001 breeding season, birds used 74% of the nest boxes. Wren species had the highest use of nest boxes at 47.8%. Nests located in the least visible nest boxes were total moss nests (the combination of Parus carolinensis [Carolina Chickadee] nests and unidentified moss nests), whereas nests located in the most visible nest boxes were Troglodytes aedon (House Wren) nests and total wren nests. Nest boxes with southeastward orientations positively affected the placement of total moss nests and Carolina Chickadee nests. Visibility influenced nest-box selection of birds on islands in the Ohio River, particularly House Wrens.
3858692|The section Stellulatae of the genus Carex includes several taxa that have created persistent challenges for floristic treatments and conservation efforts in the eastern United States. The cryptic aspects of their morphologies and confusing historical circumscriptions have obscured the identities of these taxa resulting in erroneous assessments of ecology, distribution, and conservation status. Utilizing previous treatments, analysis of herbarium specimens, and de novo fieldwork, we treat the Stellulatae as a reduction from ten species listed by authors of various floras for Maryland, West Virginia, Delaware, and the District of Columbia to seven taxa comprising six species: Carex atlantica ssp. atlantica, C. atlantica ssp. capillacea, C. echinata ssp. echinata, C. interior, C. exilis, C. sterilis, and C. seorsa. We examine the morphological characters used to identify taxa and outline the problems with earlier circumscriptions. We determined statistical significance of the means of four character states (infructescence length, length of lowest perigynium, maximum leaf width, and minimum leaf width) to identify infraspecific taxa within Carex atlantica Bailey. Finally, we report new records of taxa, update distributions in a county-based atlas for the region, and present a dichotomous key for the section.
10.2307/3858492|Larval and juvenile lumpfish, Cyclopterus lumpus L., were collected and measured over a 20-year period, 1979-1999, from tidepools along the coast of Maine. Using this extensive data base reduces the effects of annual variations in hatching times, early growth patterns, and locale for analyzing monthly size using length measurements. This can provide an effective field measurement of intertidal growth. Most fish were encountered during the months of July and August, and even when adjusted for number of sampling trips, 78% of the juveniles were encountered in tidepools during these months. Based on average lengths, size increased by 23% between June and July, 43% between July and August, and 34% between August and September.
41684240|Male parental care can significantly affect fledging success and, therefore, is a strong target of both natural and sexual selection. However, for songbird species that exhibit extra-pair paternity, males may reduce parental care based on how much paternity they have lost in a brood. We studied Passerculus sandwichensis (Savannah Sparrow) male parental care relative to the proportion of extra-pair young in the nest, to see if males adjusted care in response to increasing loss of paternity. Males brought less food (mass) with increasing rates of extra-pair paternity, although male provisioning did not influence fledging success. These results contrast with a previously published study of an island population of this species, where males provided more parental care with increased loss of paternity. We hypothesize that high rates of annual survival in this mainland population, where males have a greater potential for reproduction in future years, may explain this difference in behavior.
10.2307/3858567|A striped cusk eel, Ophidion marginatum (Dekay) was captured in an impingement sample at Seabrook Station, in Seabrook NH, on 2 April 1997. This is the first record of a striped cusk eel in the Gulf of Maine and is a northern record for this species. The capture of this fish in New Hampshire waters is unusual because it occurred in April, outside of the season when southern fishes are typically found in New England waters.
41495812|Hyperaccumulator plants mobilize large amounts of certain elements from the soil into their tissues. Those elements then may be transferred to other organisms in those communities. Using a humid tropical forest site in New Caledonia, we tested whether epiphytes (mosses and liverworts) growing on Ni hyperaccumulator hosts contained greater levels of Ni (and seven other metals) than those growing on non-hyperaccumulator hosts. We selected two Ni hyperaccumulator species, Psychotria douarrei and Hybanthus austrocaledonicus, pairing individuals of each species with similar-sized non-hyperaccumulators and collecting epiphytes from each for elemental analysis. Samples of epiphytes and host plant leaves were analyzed for concentrations of eight metals (Co, Cr, Fe, Mg, Mn, Ni, Pb, and Zn). Two-way ANOVA was used to assess the influence of host type (hyperaccumulator or non-hyperaccumulator), epiphyte group, and the interaction term. Leaves of both Ni hyperaccumulator species had greater Ni concentrations than the paired nonhyperaccumulator species, but leaf concentrations of other metals (Co, Cr, Fe, Pb, and Zn) were higher as well in one or both cases. The strongest influence on epiphyte elemental composition was found to be the host type factor for Ni. Epiphytes collected from hyperaccumulator hosts had significantly greater Ni concentrations than those collected from non-hyperaccumulator hosts. Epiphyte Ni concentrations often exceeded the threshold used to define Ni hyperaccumulation (1000 g/g), showing that some epiphytes (in most cases those growing on Ni hyperaccumulators) also hyperaccumulate Ni. Six of the epiphytes we analyzed, four liverworts (Frullania ramuligera, Schistochila sp., Morphotype # 1 and Morphotype # 13) and two mosses (Calyptothecium sp. and Aerobryopsis wallichii), had at least one specimen containing more than 1000 g Ni/g and hence qualify as Ni hyperaccumulators. We conclude that Ni could move from Ni hyperaccumulator hosts to their epiphytes, either from leachates/exudates from tissues or from accumulated external dust, thus potentially mobilizing Ni still further into the food webs of these humid tropical forests.
4499932|Etheostoma maculatum (Spotted Darter) has a disjunct distribution within the Ohio River drainage. Researchers have generalized Spotted Darter habitat as large rocks in swift riffles. In West Virginia, Spotted Darters are known to occur only in the middle section of the Elk River system. Information on habitat use is lacking. Through direct observation (snorkeling), we examined microhabitat use of Spotted Darters in riffle and glide habitats at three sites in the Elk River. Spotted darters in the Elk River were observed primarily in glide habitats near large rocks and in moderate current velocities. In the Elk River, this species is a benthic-habitat specialist, making it highly vulnerable to habitat alterations such as sedimentation and substrate embeddedness. Given its habitat use and restricted distribution, further ecological studies are needed for conservation and management of the Spotted Darter population in the Elk River.
43287117|The date of first calling (DFC) of Pseudacris crucifer (Spring Peeper) was recorded over 15 years between 1997 and 2012 in a small vernal pond in southeastern New York State. There was no statistically significant trend in temperature or in the DFC over this period. To determine what temperature cues best predicted DFC, 20 potential temperature indices (daily mean, minimum and maximum temperatures averaged over several different time periods, and thermal sums using several different base temperatures) and five precipitation indices (precipitation on the DFC and for four time windows prior to the DFC) were calculated, and predicted DFCs were compared to observed DFCs. The thermal sum with a base of 3 C (TS3) was the best predictor but overestimated DFC slightly at high values of DFC. In evaluating impacts of climate change on the calling of this frog, the TS3 index may provide a more accurate metric than the daily temperature statistics that have been used in previous studies. In a 63-year record from a nearby weather station, the TS3 index declined significantly, suggesting that Spring Peepers may be calling earlier now than they were in the mid-20th century.
4130998|We captured and radio-tagged 29 harbor seals in spring 2001 in Chatham, MA, and off Rockland, ME. Male and female seals of all ages were captured in Chatham, compared to mostly juveniles in Maine. Seventy-five percent (9/12) of the Chatham seals moved to the Maine coast in spring and summer during the pupping, breeding, and moult seasons. Similarly, seventy-one percent (12/17) of seals tagged in western Penobscot Bay remained in the mid-Maine coastal region during these seasons. These short-term movement patterns suggest that Penobscot Bay may be the source for some of the seals overwintering in southern New England.
27744545|Tsuga canadensis (Eastern Hemlock) is a common forest species that is declining throughout its range in the eastern United States because of the invasion of an exotic forest pest, Adelges tsugae (Hemlock Woolly Adelgid). This pest kills infected trees, and over time, infected stands are replaced by deciduous forests. The conversion of forests from hemlock to deciduous species is predicted to impact the hydrology, chemistry, and biology of associated headwater streams. In this study, we examined the macroinvertebrate communities of two adjacent headwater streams with differing hemlock influence in central Massachusetts. Abundance, taxa richness, diversity, and unique taxa were generally greater in the deciduous stream. Differences in the distribution of functional feeding groups were observed: the hemlock stream had a greater percentage of collector-gatherers while the deciduous stream had a greater percentage of shredders and predators. These findings suggest that macroinvertebrate communities in streams draining hemlock and deciduous watersheds may differ in structure and function, and that anticipated hemlock mortality may impact the region's stream ecology.
3858304|Gravid females of Ligumia display marginal papillae to attract fish hosts for their parasitic larvae. In L. nasuta and L. subrostrata, the papillae move rapidly and synchronously, but we did not see L. recta's papillae move. The moving displays of L. nasuta and L. subrostrata attract fish, which readily attack displaying females, causing them to release glochidia onto the fish. Display frequency in L. nasuta and L. subrostrata slows in low light and stops in the dark. Ligumia recta displays both in the light and in the dark. High turbidity stops the displays of L. nasuta and L. subrostrata. Displaying females of L. nasuta and L. subrostrata move more at night than during the day, perhaps allowing them to display to different fish each day.
41429230|Water quality programs in Connecticut and nationally have focused on restoring impaired waters, while modest attention has been allocated to healthy watersheds in the least disturbed condition. The objective of our study was to document the geographic location of least disturbed streams in Connecticut, describe the aquatic biota from these systems, and describe important environmental variables that may help explain the distribution of these biota. We used geographic information systems to select drainage basins by their natural attributes and by eliminating anthropogenic Stressor variables in order to best approximate a least disturbed watershed condition in Connecticut. We then sampled the fish and macroinvertebrate communities, water chemistry, and associated GIS-derived watershed attributes to determine the variables that best described the sampled biota. We identified 30 least disturbed streams that had drainage areas <29 km , whose stream order ranged from 1-4, and that contained <4% total impervious cover in the upstream watershed. Least disturbed streams were generally located in three geographic areas of the statenorthwest Connecticut, northeast Connecticut, and the central Connecticut valleyand were absent from the southern coast of Connecticut and southwestern Connecticut. Cluster analysis and nonmetric multidimensional scaling of macroinvertebrate taxa in the Orders Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, and Trichoptera showed 3 macroinvertebrate stream classes, with 12 significant indicator species (P <0.05). Drainage area, water temperature, alkalinity, hardness, chloride, ammonia, total nitrogen (TN), and total phosphorus (TP) may explain some of the differences in taxa between macroinvertebrate stream classes. Cluster analysis and nonmetric multidimensional scaling of fish species also showed three fish stream classes, with 9 significant indicator species (P <0.05). Drainage area, stratified drift, dam density, water temperature, total suspended solids, alkalinity, hardness, ammonia, TN, and TP may explain some of the differences in species between fish stream classes. Ninety percent of the least disturbed streams sampled contained Salvelinus fontinalis (Brook Trout), which can be considered a sentinel fish species for small, least disturbed streams in Connecticut.
43287091|Salmo salar (Atlantic Salmon) smolts are exposed to predation pressure as they migrate from freshwater into the estuary and near-shore marine environment. In particular, Phalacrocorax auritus (Double-crested Cormorants) are a predator of Atlantic salmon smolts during their estuary and near-shore migration. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's (NOAA) National Marine Fisheries Services' (NMFS) telemetry data collected prior to this study (1997-2003), suggest that smolts are being removed from the Narraguagus River on their downstream out-migration. This removal may be the result of Cormorant prdation. We investigated whether smolt survival could be improved by disrupting normal Cormorant foraging activity by integrating passive smolt tracking and active harassment techniques. Smolt movement and usage of various portions of the estuary according to light condition and tidal stage were explored along with concurrent avian harassment. Although harassment only occurred in approximately 33% of available daylight hours during this study, the impacts were easily recognized. Non-lethal harassment effectively displaced Cormorants from feeding locations and reduced loss of emigrating smolts. In 2004, 83.3% (15 of 18) of all smolt mortalities occurred on days of non-harassment, compared to only 16.7% (3 of 18) on days when harassment occurred. Similarly in 2005, 87.5% (7 of 8) of all smolt mortalities occurred on days of non-harassment, compared to only 12.5% (1 of 8) on days when harassment occurred. Non-lethal harassment appeared to be an effective means to reduce loss of emigrating smolts in the Narraguagus River estuary.
4131003| Erignathus barbatus (bearded seals) have a circumpolar distribution and are most often found in areas of transient pack ice. On 30 April 2002, an adult bearded seal was observed hauled out on a floating dock within the inner harbor of Gloucester, MA (4236.11N, 7039.42W). This is the southern-most documented sighting of a bearded seal in the western North Atlantic. The seal remained in the area for at least a week. Although the distribution of other species of ice-breeding seals has shifted south in the last ten years, it is unknown if the current Massachusetts observation of a bearded seal is part of this same phenomenon. 
40959918|Mammalian carnivores are the primary hosts for the rabies virus in terrestrial disease cycles. While rabies prevalence in Vulpes spp. and Urocyon spp. (foxes), Mephitis mephitis (Striped Skunk), and Procyon lotor (Raccoon) is well documented in Pennsylvania, the reintroduction of Martes pennanti (Fisher) provides another potential vector of this disease. We used a direct, rapid immunohistochemical test to examine brain material from 46 free-ranging Fishers collected throughout Pennsylvania from 2002-2008. Five Fishers had brain material unsuitable for rabies testing, forty Fishers tested negative for the disease, and one individual tested positive. The individual that tested positive was an adult male that was found to be positive for the Eastern Raccoon strain of rabies. This individual was trapped and radio-collared in July 2006 as part of a research project examining Fisher resource selection. Researchers monitored this individual weekly starting July 2006 until October 2006, when it was found dead beneath a brush pile. As Fisher populations continue to expand throughout portions of the northeastern United States, their potential as a vector of rabies should not be overlooked.
43287126|Spiders are often found as residents in association with Sarracenia purpurea (Purple Pitcher Plant). Many spiders choose web locations based on environmental cues such as vegetation structure and composition, prey density, temperature, and humidity. To determine if spiders use cues from the Purple Pitcher Plant to build their webs, we conducted a field study using variants of the plant that separated various morphological features: nectar, pigment, and the presence of prey. There was no difference in spider residency across all treatments and no difference in male/female or mature/immature residency. Linyphiids were the most common residents, possibly due to pitcher structure and natural web size.
10.2307/3858660|The nesting behavior of Crabro monticola was studied at seven localities in upstate New York and northwestern Pennsylvania over seven years. More than 100 nests were observed, excavated, measured, and drawn. Contents were removed from the cells, analyzed, weighed, and identified. All nests were excavated in sandy soil near woodland in late spring-early summer. Prey were carried to the nests in flight mainly during the morning and, less so, late afternoon. A total of 11 families and 61 species of adult Diptera were preyed upon. Males of Hybomitra lasiophthalma (Tabanidae) were predominant prey at S Auburn, NY. Males of Thereva frontalis (Therevidae) were prevalent in cells at Chittenango and Colonie, NY. Individual burrows varied in length, but mean burrow length was similar at all localities except Selkirk Shores State Park and Colonie, NY. Mean cell depth was significantly different between most sites. Prey stored for next generation male wasps weighed, on average, only half as much as provisions stored for future female wasps. Female cells were located, on average, slightly deeper in the soil than male cells except at Chittenango in 1970. Individual flies varied considerably in size and weight at all localities. Mean number of prey per cell at S Auburn was significantly fewer than at Chittenango. Cell size correlated positively with aggregate prey weight. Flies bearing wasps' eggs were nearly always positioned head in and ventral side up. Mortality by mold, scavenging ants, and cleptoparasitic miltogrammine flies was negligible.
10.2307/3858371|We present distributional maps and discuss native status for fish species characteristic of coldwater lakes, sampled from 203 randomly selected lakes in the northeastern USA (New England, New York, New Jersey). Eleven coldwater fish species from four families (Salmonidae, Osmeridae, Gadidae, Cottidae) were collected during the summers of 1991 to 1996 by the Environmental Monitoring and Assessment Program (EMAP). The most widespread species were brook trout and rainbow smelt, collected at 23% and 18% of the sampled lakes, respectively. Stocked (put-and-take) rainbow trout occurred at 10% of the lakes, while the remaining fish species (brown trout, landlocked Atlantic salmon, lake trout, Arctic char, lake whitefish, cisco, burbot, slimy sculpin) were collected at less than 6% of the lakes. We also provide comparative data on physical (surface area, depth, elevation), chemical (pH and total phosphorus), and watershed characteristics of the lakes where these species were collected.
60225656|Reliable estimates of the habitat areas of major marine producer groups were needed in support of an ecosystem modeling effort in the macrotidal Cobscook Bay, ME. Results needed to be comprehensive, synoptic, objective, affordable, and on a suitable spatial scale. We chose to address these goals by applying accepted procedures utilizing existing Landsat Thematic Mapper imagery and a computer-generated unsupervised classification. Unsupervised classification of high and low tide Landsat TM images yielded coherent habitat maps that were supported by reference data and independent habitat analyses. The high tide image revealed surface water patterns that supported the existence of a large, Central Bay dipole eddy predicted by a numerical three-dimensional circulation model. Classification of the low tide image resulted in 14 intertidal and water habitat classes being defined. Overall accuracy of the classification was 86%. Good agreement in habitat areas existed between the affordable and easily repeatable satellite survey and four other Cobscook Bay surveys which differed methodologically and temporally. The four studies agreed within 7% of total habitat area and 12% on intertidal habitat area. The area of both brown and green algae in the Bay apparently increased modestly over a 25-year period which saw the introduction of large-scale salmon aquaculture and the advent of intensive dragging for scallops and sea urchins. The increase in both groups is inconsistent with changes induced by nutrient additions observed elsewhere. Landsat imagery appears to be a valuable tool for the management and monitoring of macrotidal environments.
40959922|Potential effects of acid mine drainage (AMD) and thermal enrichment on the reproduction of fishes were investigated through a larval-trapping survey in the Stony River watershed, Grant County, WV. Trapping was conducted at seven sites from 26 March to 2 July 2004. Overall larval catch was low (379 individuals in 220 hours of trapping). More larval White Suckers were captured than all other species. Vectors fitted to nonparametric multidimensional scaling ordinations suggested that temperature was highly correlated to fish communities captured at our sites. Survival of larval Fathead Minnows was examined in situ at six sites from 13 May to 11 June 2004 in the same system. Larval survival was lower, but not significantly different between sites directly downstream of AMD-impacted tributaries (40% survival) and non-AMD sites (52% survival). The lower survival was caused by a significant mortality event at one site that coincided with acute pH depression in an AMD tributary immediately upstream of the site. Results from a Cox proportional hazard test suggests that low pH is having a significant negative influence on larval fish survival in this system. The results from this research indicate that the combination of low pH events and elevated temperature are negatively influencing the larval fish populations of the Stony River watershed. Management actions that address these problems would have the potential to substantially increase both reproduction rates and larval survival, therefore greatly enhancing the fishery.
25177104|To evaluate trap success among camera types and across species as well as assess habitat selection by target carnivore species, we established 16 infrared-triggered camera stations across a 26.9-km study area located on primarily Jefferson National Forest land in Virginia. We monitored camera stations for 72 days (August to October 2005) for a total of 891 trap nights (TN) of effort. Overall trap success for all animals combined was 40.74 captures per 100 TN. Procyon lotor (raccoon) had the highest predator trap success (2.81/100 TN), followed by: Ursus americanus (black bear, 1.91/100 TN); Lynx rufus (bobcat, 1.46/100 TN); Canis latrans (coyote, 1.01/100 TN); and Urocyon cinereoargenteus (gray fox, 0.56/100 TN). Odocoileus virginianus (white-tailed deer) had the highest overall trap success (21.32/100 TN), followed by Sciurus carolinensis (gray squirrel, 6.17/100 TN). Passive camera units, especially DeerCam, had higher trap success than active camera units, and digital camera units (Reconyx) out-performed film cameras. We extracted percent cover of habitat features (% coniferous, % deciduous, % water, % agricultural) from a geographic information system (GIS) using circular buffers around each trap site and compared carnivore-present sites to carnivore-absent sites. We compared carnivore trap success to the distance to the main access road and to trap success of prey species, primarily deer and gray squirrel. We also compared each carnivore's trap success to that of the other carnivore species to determine if carnivore presence or activity levels influenced other carnivores. Black bear, coyote, and raccoon tended to avoid areas with a high percentage of coniferous forest, and only bobcat showed significant avoidance of coniferous forest. Bobcat trap success increased with distance to the main road, and coyote trap success was positively (but weakly) related to gray squirrel trap success. Human foot traffic did not affect carnivore trap success. This study elucidates differences among camera trap systems, and highlights the potential to monitor carnivore species simultaneously and in combination with a GIS to predict occurrence across a landscape.
43287138|We report 4 new recoveries of the endangered Myotis sodalis (Indiana Bat) that were banded in Michigan during summer and found hibernating in Ohio, Indiana, or Kentucky, 225-386 km from the initial banding site. A fifth individual apparently made the longest migration on record for Indiana Bats (575 km) on multiple occasions. Since 1997, 15% of 71 Indiana Bats banded in Michigan during summer have been recovered during winter.
27744581|Bird collisions in Manhattan (New York City) were studied by analyzing collision data collected from 1997 to 2008 by Project Safe Flight (PSF) participants, representing one of the largest collision monitoring efforts in the nation. Over 5400 bird collisions were recorded during this period, two-thirds of which were fatal. Collisions involved 104 bird species, primarily from the warbler, sparrow, and thrush families, and mostly during spring and fall migration. Most collisions were documented to occur during the day at the lower levels of buildings where large glass exteriors reflected abundant vegetation, or where transparent windows exposed indoor vegetation. Most collisions in Manhattan likely occurred at a smaller number of high-collision sites where strike rates of well over 100 birds per year are considerably higher than previously reported rates. We suggest here that improving our understanding of the factors involved in collisions at such sites could greatly assist in reducing bird collisions.
3858641|While kayaking in Lake Superior, I observed a red squirrel (Tamiasciurus hudsonicus) swimming. I followed the squirrel for approximately 1.5 km until it safely arrived on an island, which is approximately 2 km from the shores of mainland Wisconsin. This is the first published observation of a red squirrel swimming in one of the Great Lakes, as well as the longest documented swim of a red squirrel. Further investigations are needed to determine whether swimming is a significant form of dispersal and island colonization for red squirrels in North America.
41684227|To mitigate the unintended consequences of roads and habitat fragmentation, biologists model wildlife corridors with least-cost path (LCP) analysis of spatial data managed with geographic information systems. However, the ability of LCP models to accurately predict preferred movement corridors remains questionable. We tested the effectiveness of an LCP model constructed using literature review, expert opinion, and the relative distribution of land-cover types present at roadside observations of Martes pennanti (Fisher). The model was then used to predict road-crossing corridors of Fishers, Lynx rufus (Bobcat), and Ursus americanus (American Black Bear) within our study area in northern New Hampshire. Roadside data were collected through track surveys from 5 Dec 2005-25 May 2006. Our analysis demonstrated that least-cost modeling successfully identified roadside wildlife corridors for Fishers and Bobcats, but not for American Black Bears.
27744579|We report forest bird population trends from 19872005 at a 280.7-ha site in Chester, MA. Our study site consisted primarily of mid-successional (7090 yr old) forest in a landscape of similar, non-fragmented forest. Using point counts at 100 stations, we detected 94 species in early June over all years. Mean numbers of species and detections/yr were 57 and 1104, respectively. Species richness and total detections were stable (P  0.05). We analyzed trends for the 36 most frequently detected species. Four species exhibited significant increasing trends and 10 significant declining trends; 22 species were stable or exhibited no significant trend (P  0.05). Whether a species was a resident, short-distance, migrant, or Neotropical migrant did not appear to be a determinative factor for trends. Trends were more readily explained by (I) areal and structural expansion of mature forest conditions and (II) forestry treatments that affected 70 ha (25%) of the study site. We report few changes in species abundances that could not be plausibly explained by intra-site habitat changes and no mysterious or alarming changes in the first 19 years of this study.
41810148|Very few large-scale studies of breeding marine birds have been conducted in Labrador. To address this information deficit, we conducted near-shore aerial surveys of the Labrador coastline between 6-11 and 21-26 June 2006. Our primary species of interest was Somateria mollissima (Common Eider), for which we counted only adult males. In total, we identified 8 species and 5 species categories (alcid colony, mixed tern and gull colony, etc). In total, we counted 40,700 birds, of which Common Eiders were the most widely distributed species, accounting for 88% of all flock/colony observations. Melanitta perspicillata (Surf Scoter) was the second most abundant species, but had a limited distribution, while Cepphus grylle (Black Guillemot) was the third most abundant species observed, but showed the second widest regional distribution. This information is valuable to resource managers and ecosystem researchers.
27744595|Three groups of Tsuga canadensis (Eastern Hemlock) trees were analyzed to compare their chemical composition and the potential for naturally occurring resistance to Adelges tsugae (Hemlock Woolly Adelgid [HWA]). Potentially resistant "parent" trees located in southern Connecticut were compared with rooted propagules from those same trees and control trees located in northern Vermont, outside of the current HWA range. For trees in each group, we quantified Ca, P, K, C, and N and developed terpenoid profiles using solid-phase microextraction (SPME) and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC/MS). There was no significant variation in terpenoid profiles between the three groups of hemlock trees. Propagules retained elevated levels of Ca and N from fertilization during propagation, suggesting that their chemical composition does not mirror the parent trees. The potentially resistant "parent" trees had higher levels of K compared to control trees. This may impart some level of tolerance/resistance to HWA and explain their persistence in hemlock forests that have otherwise been decimated by HWA. Comparison to regional foliar chemistry databases suggest that while rare, such elevated K levels do exist in natural hemlock populations. Such individuals may persist as HWA continues to spread across the region.
10.2307/3858648|Louis Agassiz (1807-1873), in addition to his work on paleoichthyology, had a substantial impact on geological thinking. He is the major figure in the development of Ice Age theory. One of his research areas was Maine. He was very influencial in higher education in Maine and New England, both in his ideas and through his students. This paper also discusses the work of researchers leading to Agassiz's development of a holistic view of an ice age.
41315941|Field surveys were conducted during 1998, 2000, 2003, and 2004 within the Mingo National Wildlife Refuge in southeastern Missouri to determine if ambient ground-level ozone was impacting ozone-sensitive refuge vegetation. Ozone-induced leaf symptoms (stipple) were observed within the refuge during each survey year. Percentage of bioindicator plants exhibiting stipple were wild grape (16.1%) > Common Milkweed (16.0%) > ash (7.5%) > Black Cherry (6.7%) > Flowering Dogwood (4.9%) > Sassafras (2.3%) > Sweetgum (1.2%). By year, the incidence of symptomatic plants were 1998 (22.8%) > 2003 (3.9%) > 2000 (3.4%) > 2004 (2.5%). Cumulative ambient ozone levels (SUM60, ppb. hrs) monitored at the closest EPA monitor (Bonne Terre, MO) at time of survey were 1998 (44,886) > 2000 (39,611) > 2003 (38,465) > 2004 (15,147). The cumulative SUM60 threshold value of ozone needed to cause foliar symptoms on ozone-sensitive plants within the refuge appears to be ca. 10,000 ppb. hrs. Ozone injury is likely to occur on ozone-sensitive plant species within the refuge during most years.
43287134|Procyon lotor (Raccoon) is a major predator of beach-nesting and colonial waterbirds on the Virginia barrier islands. An understanding of water as a barrier to inter-island movement by Raccoons will be essential to effective management of these predators in this naturally fragmented coastal environment. We examined 4 independent lines of direct evidence for Raccoon movement between 1999 and 2007: 1) locations of recaptured, ear-tagged Raccoons on both the islands and the adjacent mainland, 2) overland movements of radio-collared Raccoons, 3) inter-island movements of radio-collared resident Raccoons, and 4) movements of translocated Raccoons. We recaptured 78 of 177 ear-tagged island Raccoons, all on the same island as the initial capture. We also tagged and released 65 mainland Raccoons, none of which was ever recaptured on an island. We often observed overland movements >1 km per day by radio-collared animals on both the islands and the mainland. Nevertheless, only 3 of 51 (6%) collared animals (2 males and 1 female) moved overwater from the location where they were captured. None of the 4 Raccoons radio-collared on the mainland moved to an island. Although Raccoons in this system are highly mobile, overwater movements seem to be infrequent events; only 3 of 234 tagged/collared island individuals moved between islands, and none of the 69 tagged/collared mainland individuals moved to an island. Finally, we observed return movements by 22 of the 32 (69%) animals (11 males and 11 females) that were translocated either from the mainland to a nearby island or between adjacent islands. Translocated animals exhibited a much greater tendency than resident animals to make overwater crossings. In all cases of overwater movement, the water channels were relatively shallow and relatively slow moving. None of the 335 marked animals in this study crossed a tidal inlet. The mobility observed here is consistent with the idea that the distribution of Raccoons on the islands has expanded in recent decades. Prdation management on these islands will require a strategic approach that takes into account both island isolation and Raccoon mobility.
25177079|Survival and post-release movements of individuals translocated for reintroduction purposes have implications for intra-specific interactions, which are essential for reproduction, and, ultimately, for the success of the reintroduction effort. Between 1997-1998, 28 (14M:14F) Lontra canadensis (river otters) were translocated to the Genesee River, NY, to restore extirpated populations. Otters were implanted with transmitters to determine survival, cause of mortality, and post-release movements. Five (3M:2F) otters died during the study: three (2M:1F) mortalities were caused by collisions with vehicles and two (1M:1F) were from unknown causes. Survival rate during the first year was 0.89 (95% CI = 0.78-1.00); annual survival rate was 0.92 (95% CI = 0.79-1.00) and 0.86 (95% CI = 0.70-1.00) for males and females, respectively. Post-release dispersal distance of 22 (11M:11F) otters ranged from 1.2 to 54.0 km (mean = 12.5 km, 95% CI = 8.5-23.7 km). Dispersal distance of females was greater than that of males by a mean of 8.7 km (95% CI = 0.1-19.2 km). River otters that dispersed &gt;15 km from the release site experienced higher mortality.
10.2307/3858550|The painted turtle, Chrysemys picta Schneider (family Emydidae), has been divided into four subspecies (with differing morphological characteristics), two of which intergrade in the northeastern United States. The intergradation of C. p. marginata (midland painted turtle) and C. p. picta (eastern painted turtle) has been well studied in some areas, but has been poorly studied in Vermont, an area that could contribute important information on this species and the process of intergradation. Turtles were trapped and released from three different watersheds in Vermont, and others were examined from collections at the Carnegie Museum of Natural History from within the center of the ranges of the two parent subspecies to investigate the hypotheses that Vermont's turtles are intergrades, and that the amount of influence from each subspecies differs with drainage in Vermont. For the external characteristics of scute disalignment, scute border width, and plastral figure, many of Vermont's turtles were determined to be significantly different from typical marginata and picta, and were intermediate to them, strongly suggesting that they are intergrades. Samples from the southeast corner of the state were determined to be picta.
4131004|Larvae of two noctuid moths, Exyra fax and Papaipema appassionata, are obligate herbivores of Sarracenia purpurea (northern pitcher plant). We studied the relationship between presence of these larvae and plant size, the spatial clustering of herbivory, and effects of herbivory on subsequent plant size at Harvard Pond in central Massachusetts. Plants fed upon by E. fax were larger than uneaten plants, were clustered in the study area, and decreased in size after a year relative to uneaten plants. The few plants fed upon by P. appassionata were similar in size to the overall population, and were clustered only in 2003. Limited mobility of adult moths and plant size preference may account for clustering of herbivory by E. fax, whereas larval mobility may account for clustering of herbivory by P. appassionata.
10.2307/3858552|We examined the correlation between canopy gap formation and the initial growth of forest trees by reconstructing the gap history of a Tsuga canadensis (L.) Carr. forest community in southeastern Ohio. We cored each tree (>10 cm dbh, n = 156) in a 40  90 m plot and examined the cores for release events, characterized by dramatic increases in radial growth. We identified 80 former gaps in the 79 yr sample period by clustering release events in time and space. Thirteen of the 80 former gaps coincided with the initial growth of trees. These 13 gaps were usually large gaps containing few established trees or gaps undergoing repeat disturbance. Of the 36 trees >10 cm dbh that began growth during the sample, 21 (58%) began growing inside a gap within 6 yr of gap formation-three times the rate predicted by chance (p = 0.001). We also measured the distance in time and space between the first year of growth and the closest canopy gap for each tree. We called the inverse of this measure the gap affinity index (GAI). Although we did not find significant differences in GAI among species, the index confirmed qualitative notions about the shade tolerance of six common tree species: intolerant species exhibited high gap affinities, while tolerant species exhibited low gap affinities. We also found a significant, positive correlation between GAI and the area of the closest gap, as well as a significant, negative correlation between GAI and the mean number of releases per species.
41684241|The burying beetle Nicrophorus tomentosus (Silphidae) (Tomentose Burying Beetle) achieves an instant color change from a strikingly black and orange animal to a largely yellow one. This transformation achieves a mimicry of several species of bumblebees when they are in flight, and it is accomplished by twisting the elytra to expose their yellow undersides while simultaneously hiding the bright orange and black upper sides. The overall effect is an apparent combination of both Muellerian and Batesian mimicry of bumblebees.
25177088|This study examined possible effects of several abiotic parameters on breeding-pool selection of Ambystoma jeffersonianum (Jefferson Salamander), A. maculatum (Spotted Salamander), A. opacum (Marbled Salamander), and Notophthalmus viridescens (Red-spotted Newt). Twenty-four ephemeral pools and permanent ponds, all adjacent to a logging road, were observed in south-central Pennsylvania in 2006. There was a significant correlative effect of distance from the logging road on breeding-site selection. Specifically, the distance from the road significantly differed between the breeding-sites of Jefferson Salamanders and Red-spotted Newts and between those of Marbled Salamander and Red-spotted Newts with both ambystomatid species breeding farther from the road than Red-spotted Newts. This study supports the idea that ambystomatid salamander breeding-site selection can be influenced by habitat disturbance, while generalist species are not as easily influenced.
41684235|To address the question of how succession in protected habitats might be managed to favor rare understory plants in the Northeast, this study examined whether reducing shade might have negative impacts via increased herbivory or reduced pollination. We studied marginal populations of Trollius laxus Salisbury (Spreading Globeflower), a rare herbaceous plant of calcareous wetlands, making observations of natural variation in one population, and experimentally cutting back herbaceous neighboring plants in another. In a Trollius population under a mixed canopy, we quantified natural light levels at each plant and tested for correlations with measures of reproduction and herbivory. Flowering and fruit production were positively correlated with light level in one of the two years measured, while herbivore damage and plant growth were uncorrelated with light level. In another study population, where the woody canopy had been removed previously, experimental clipping of herbaceous neighbors did not increase herbivore damage to T. laxus, nor did it decrease flowering or fruit production. Also, the few potential pollinators observed were all small insects unlikely to be negatively affected by increased light. Our results suggest that management to reduce shade in these marginal T. laxus populations is unlikely to have a negative impact on these rare plants via their herbivores and pollinators.
4130740|From 2001 to 2003, 32 islands in the Boston Harbor Islands national park area were surveyed and inventoried for vascular plant species and plant communities. To date, 521 species in 99 plant families have been identified on these islands. A total of 229 species (44%) are exotic plants. On many islands, non-native plants account for 50% or more of the total flora. The islands with the largest number of plant species are: Worlds End (301), Peddocks (225), and Thompson (211). Duration and type of human uses are influential factors determining the present condition of the flora in the park. Seven rare plant taxa listed as endangered, threatened, special concern, or watch-list by the Massachusetts Natural Heritage and Endangered Species Program were documented on the Harbor Islands in this survey. Upland vegetation communities on 18 islands have been surveyed, classified, and mapped. Plant communities found on the Harbor Islands include native and non-native forests and woodlands, maritime shrub communities, old fields, beach strand communities, maritime cliff communities, and dune systems.
25177116|A recent review of deep-sea fishes captured deeper than 200 m off greater New England, from the Scotian Shelf at 44N to the southern New England Shelf at about 38N, documented 591 species. Subsequent trawling activity and reviews of deep-sea taxa occurring in the area have revealed that an additional 40 species inhabit the deep sea off New England. Thirty-two of these new records were captured in the course of 44 bottom trawls and 94 mid-water trawls over or in the proximity of Bear Seamount (3955'N, 6730'W). Five of the 40 species have been described as new to science, at least in part from material taken in the study area. In addition to describing such information as specimen size and position, depth, and date of capture, errors made in the previous study of deep-sea fishes in the area are identified and corrected.
27744575|Impacts of highway construction on streams in the central Appalachians are a growing concern as new roads are created to promote tourism and economic development in the area. Alterations to the streambed of a first-order stream, Sauerkraut Run, Hardy County, WV, during construction of a highway overpass included placement and removal of a temporary culvert, straightening and regrading of a section of stream channel, and armourment of a bank with a reinforced gravel berm. We surveyed longitudinal profiles and cross sections in a reference reach and the altered reach of Sauerkraut Run from 2003 through 2007 to measure physical changes in the streambed. During the four-year period, three high-flow events changed the streambed downstream of construction including channel widening and aggradation and then degradation of the streambed. Upstream of construction, at a reinforced gravel berm, bank erosion was documented. The reference section remained relatively unchanged. Knowledge gained by documenting channel changes in response to natural and anthropogenic variables can be useful for managers and engineers involved in highway construction projects.
25177064|Fish were sampled from the entire 34.4-km Bronx River each year from 2001 to 2005 inclusive, yielding a database of 4000 fish comprising 23 freshwater species and 22 estuarine species. These data were compared to the historic data from 1936-1998 as recorded in the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation's digital database, Albany, NY. Only 6 freshwater species reported in the historic data-Rhodeus sericeus (Bitterling), Salmo trutta (Brown Trout), Semotilus corporalis (Fallfish), Esox americanus vermiculatus (Grass Pickerel), Etheostoma nigrum (Johnny Darter), and Esox lucius (Northern Pike)-are no longer in the river. However, the original report of the presence of the Johnny Darter probably resulted from taxonomic confusion since this species has never been in the Hudson Valley, and we strongly believe that the report of the presence of grass pickerel is also the result of misidentification of the specimen for the same reason as given for the johnny darter. The report of the Brown Trout should be discounted since this species has been only taken in the Bronx River following a stocking event. We have found a breeding population of Brown Trout in the southern end of Davis Brook, but these have not yet traversed the multi-channel marsh area to enter the Bronx River proper. Therefore, only three previously reported species-Bitterling, Fallfish, and Northern Pike-are no longer in the river. Four species-Fundulus diaphanus (Banded Killifish), Ameiurus nebulosus (Brown Bullhead), Apeltes quadracus (Fourspine Stickleback), and Micropterus dolomieu (Smallmouth Bass)-not reported in the historic database were part of our 2001-2005 freshwater collection. These discrepancies are explained, and on balance, it was determined that for the past 70 years, the Bronx River has been remarkably stable in terms of fish species and diversity. Examination of the estuarine portion of the river shows that it functions as an important nursery ground for many commercial and recreational fish harvested from New York waters.
41684232|Umbra pygmaea DeKay (Eastern Mudminnow) is one of four species of Umbridae in North America. There is little published life-history information on the species within its native range, particularly on age, growth, and reproduction. This study focuses on these aspects of the life history of this fish at the Great Swamp National Wildlife Refuge in Morris County, NJ. A total of 336 fish of seven species was collected from June 1978 through May 1979, with the Eastern Mudminnow comprising 74% of the total. The average annual growth increment in total length for the Eastern Mudminnow was 15.3  2.06 mm, with age-1 fish averaging 40 mm total length and age-5 fish, the oldest collected, averaging 107 mm total length. The length-weight relationship was log 10 W = -5.291 + 3.182 logTL mm for males and log 10 W = -4.999 + 3.032 logTL mm for females. We observed no statistically significant sexually dimorphic differences in length-weight relationships in this population. The ratio of females to males increased from a low of 0.6 (predominance of male fish) at age-1 to a high of 4.6 (predominance of females) at age-5. Annual mortality for age 2-5 fish ranged from 40-76% with a mean of 59  13%. Age-specific fecundity estimates ranged from 250 eggs/female at age-1 to 2168 eggs/female at age-5. The relationship of number of mature ova to age was best described by the exponential function y = 149.29e x , where y = age-specific fecundity and x = age in years. Ova ranged from 0.1-0.2 mm in diameter in June and July and averaged 1.41  0.1 mm (range = 1.29-1.62 mm) in early February prior to spawning. Peak spawning occurred in mid-April at temperatures of 9-12 C, and all females were spent by late April (13-15 C).
43287125|Woodland vernal pools, small-scale forested depressions that flood in the spring and dry as summer progresses, are an essential and rapidly disappearing component of breeding habitat for numerous amphibian and macroinvertebrate species. Here we propose five multiple linear regression models to assist in the rapid assessment of vernal pools to conserve those with the greatest amphibian, aquatic macroinvertebrate, and herbaceous vegetation features. These models are based on samples taken from 21 pools distributed throughout the South Mountain landscape, a largely forested landscape matrix in south-central Pennsylvania. A comparison of the vegetative community of vernal pools and upland sites using Morisita's index of community similarity shows them to be quite distinct. Based on our analyses and models, we propose conserving woodland vernal pools that possess plant species indicative of seasonal inundation, a large water volume when inundated, high tree cover, presence of coarse woody debris, high phosphate level in the water, and low sphagnum presence along the pool perimeter. Vernal pools with high herbaceous, shrub, and tree diversity likewise predict high amphibian productivity (abundance). This rapid assessment is expected to be a set of invaluable tools for identifying and ranking woodland vernal pools for state and federal conservation agencies.
4499918|We report the season of emergence from the nest of hatchlings of five species of freshwater turtles from a wetlands/stream/lake complex in southcentral New Hampshire from 1988-1994. Only hatchling Chrysemys picta (Painted Turtle) overwintered in the nest and emerged the following spring, although there were some cases of autumn emergence, as well as some nests with hatchlings that emerged in both seasons. In nests monitored over the winter, mortality ranged from 26-100%. Hatchlings of the other four species -Chelydra serpentina (Snapping Turtle), Glyptemys insculpta (Wood Turtle), Clemmys guttata (Spotted Turtle), and Emydoidea blandingii (Blanding's Turtle)-emerged only in autumn.
4131000| We mist-netted bats to test the efficacy of the US Fish and Wildlife Service Indiana Bat Protocol (IBP), which recommends monitoring nets every 20 min. We continuously videotaped mist nets while monitoring and removing bats every 20 min. We recorded 157 bats on video that approached within 10 m of the mist net. Thirty-six bats (23.1%) avoided the net, 79 (50.0%) were caught and collected, and 42 (26.9%) were caught but escaped before we returned to check the net. We recommend that researchers check mist nets at intervals  10 minutes to potentially increase capture rates by  25%. 
10.2307/3858360|Thirty-nine moss species occur on Kent Island, New Brunswick. Two-thirds of the moss species found on the island have mainly boreal ranges, which reflects the cool growing season and generally boreal character of the Bay of Fundy's vegetation. One species, Rhytidiadelphus loreus, has been recorded only once previously in the province. Most moss species showed distinctive habitat distributions. Percent cover of the 12 commonest species was highest in spruce-fir forest and lowest in mountain ash stands. Sporophyte production was relatively low in all species and varied between habitats. Sporophytes were observed in fewer than 1% of 25  25 cm quadrats during the months of June and July. The low species richness of mosses on Kent Island relative to mainland habitats is presumably due to the island's small size, isolation from the mainland, low elevation, relatively simple plant community, and harsh physical environment.
25177127|The collection of an Agkistrodon piscivorus (Cottonmouth) on a barge in Winona, MN lends credence to the belief that this species may occasionally be carried up the Mississippi River via commercial boat traffic. Consideration is given to reports of other crotaline snakes not expected to occur in the upper Mississippi River drainage, including Agkistrodon contortrix (Copperhead), Crotalus viridis (Prairie Rattlesnake), and Crotalus atrox (Western Diamondback Rattlesnake).
41315946|Invasion of New England lakes by exotic macrophytes can alter trophic interactions if the invaders host macroinvertebrate and epiphyte communities different from those of the native species they replace. Macroinvertebrate density and diversity appears to increase with macrophyte complexity and epiphytic algae colonization, which are also positively correlated. Because of this confounding effect, we investigated native and exotic macrophyte species of similar complexity in order to answer the question: Does the exotic macrophyte Myriophyllum spicatum have lower epiphyte density and richness that results in lower macroinvertebrate density and diversity than those found on a native species of similar complexity? Using independent-sample /-tests, we investigated this question in mixed macrophyte stands of three Vermont lakes. Holding complexity constant, macroinvertebrate density and diversity was positively related with epiphyte density and richness (r 2= 0.17 and 0.13, respectively). Generally, M. spicatum only hosted greater macroinvertebrate densities than native macrophytes when it also hosted greater epiphyte densities, but there was never a sampling period in any of the 3 lakes when M. spicatum hosted greater macroinvertebrate diversity than the native species. Therefore, if M. spicatum replaces these native species in northeastern lakes, macroinvertebrate diversity may stay the same or decrease depending on which native species are present.
27744600|The postlarval stage, or megalopa, of Ocypode quadrata (Atlantic Ghost Crab) has distinctive morphological characteristics, with large size being its most recognizable character. Nevertheless, there is little biological or ecological information on this critical stage in the crab's life cycle. Over a 20-year period (19802000) of field work, only five specimens have been collected incidentally along the sandy beaches of southern New Jersey, near the northern limit of its geographic range. Megalopae were obtained via seine, hand net, and sediment core samples from September 6 to October 6, even though some of the locations were sampled throughout the year. Mean carapace width (CW) and length (CL) for the five megalopae were 4.85  0.59 mm by 6.14  0.68 mm, respectively; CW ranged from 4.015.43 mm and CL from 5.187.01; mean CW/CL ratio was 0.790  0.023. Carapace dimensions of New Jersey specimens were compared with megalopae recorded in the literature from the shores of Long Island, NY and North Carolina, as well as data from two eastern Pacific species, Ocypode gaudichaudii and O. occidentalis. Morphology of the megalopa appears to be adaptive for survival through metamorphosis into the first crab stage. Recruitment of O. quadrata to sandy beaches in the northern part of its range is probably in the fall.
10.2307/3858601|I examined breeding phenology, territoriality, social interactions, reproductive success, and survivorship in a population of yellow warblers (Dendroica petechia) breeding in the Great Swamp, Washington County, Rhode Island. In four seasons of study (1992-1995), males preceded females in arriving on the breeding grounds. Females began building nests in early May. Of 94 nests whose host plants were identified, 28 were in Rosa, 28 in Salix, 12 in Clethra alnifolia, and 26 in plants of 12 other species. Clutches were initiated between May 14 and June 14. Males defended territories and formed monogamous social pair bonds with the females nesting on these territories. The breeding density was approximately five pairs/ha of occupied habitat. Only females were observed building nests or incubating clutches. Both members of social pairs participated in provisioning nestlings, with no significant difference in provisioning rates between the sexes. The mean size of first clutches was 4.5 (SE = 0.09), and clutch size declined as the season progressed. The probability that a newly laid egg would yield a surviving fledgling was 0.46. One instance of brood parasitism by brown-headed cowbirds (Molothrus ater) was observed. The percentage of birds breeding in one year that returned to the study area the next year was 56% for males and 42% for females. These results provide an opportunity for comparison with populations in other regions and a baseline against which future environmental impacts in southern Rhode Island might be evaluated.
10.2307/3858696|Numerous insect herbivores and leaf pathogens influenced seedling establishment of sugar maple (Acer saccharum) in six forests in central New York. The pear thrips (Taeniothrips inconsequens), an introduced pest of maples and orchard trees, was the primary mortality factor for seedlings in a sugar maple stand, although overstory defoliation by thrips was minor. At both sites where mortality was monitored, many emerging seedlings were killed in early spring by tortricid caterpillars, especially Clepsis melaleucana. Leaves of older seedlings were damaged by various caterpillars, Typhlocyba leafhoppers, Cristulariella depraedans leaf spot disease, and others. After the spring of their first year, seedling mortality decreased, and following mast years many new sugar maples were recruited into the seedling bank.
43287109|Most hawks construct the frame of their nest from coarse dry branches and line it with finer materials before the eggs are laid. However, Buteo platypterus (Broadwinged Hawk) and some other hawk species resume to build on the nest lining in the nestling stage, by adding fresh sprigs of green vegetation. Various hypotheses for the latter behavior have been suggested. I examined the contents of a Broad-winged Hawk nest in western Maine repeatedly to gain insights into the function of the green sprigs. The birds added on average two large fresh green fronds (each 15-42 cm in length) per day to the nest during the first 18 days after their young hatched, and they continued to add about 1 frond/twig with fresh leaves per day during the last 17 days the chick was in the nest. These fresh greens consisted often species of plants, including five species of ferns and two species of conifer. Of my nine examinations of the nest, in all but the last one the nest mold was lined with either ferns or Thuja occidentalis (Northern White Cedar). I compared the percentages of these greens with their local availability near the nest, and conclude that the birds selected for a flat but feathery leaf structure. The literature suggests various possible functions of greenery in nests. I distinguish between greens added onto the nest, and greens added later on post-hatching into the nest lining as a layer, and conclude that nest hygiene is the most plausible explanation for green vegetation in hawk nest linings.
27744540|Larger nektonic fishes, many of which are economically important, comprise a large portion of the biomass in estuaries and may influence energy flow through their migrations and feeding, yet we know relatively little of this faunal component. To elucidate the patterns of species composition, distribution, and abundance in Delaware Bay, we sampled (n = 2298 sets) nektonic fishes (n = 3693 individuals, mean length = 261.4 mm, range = 53600 mm) with multi-mesh gill nets in near-shore bay and marsh creek habitats during the summer and fall (JuneNovember 2001) when fishes are more abundant in temperate estuaries. For the most abundant species, the older and larger individuals (age 1+) often dominated the catches. Patterns of assemblage structure were influenced by spatial gradients in salinity and dissolved oxygen and temporal changes in temperature. Many of the large nektonic fishes that dominate in Delaware Bay are also found in other temperate estuaries from the Gulf of Maine to Chesapeake Bay, in part, because these species are highly migratory.
10.2307/3858484|The Jamaica Bay Wildlife Refuge (JBWR) represents the largest protected area for over 300 species of migratory and resident birds on Long Island (LI), New York, and occupies a key position along the Atlantic flyway. We identified changes in nesting populations for 18 species of colonial waterbirds in JBWR and on LI, during 1974 - 1998, to provide a basis for future wildlife management decisions in JBWR and also at nearby John F. Kennedy International Airport. None of the populations was stable over the past 25 years in JBWR or on LI. Some populations in JBWR increased (Laughing Gull L. atricilla Linnaeus, Great Black-backed Gull L. marinus Linnaeus, Forster's Tern Sterna forsteri Nuttall) while others decreased (Herring Gull Larus argentatus Coues, Snowy Egret Egretta thula Molina), but only Cattle Egrets (Bubulcus ibis Linnaeus) have disappeared from the refuge. Common Tern (S. hirundo Linnaeus), Least Tern (S. antillarum Lesson), Roseate Tern (S. dougallii Montagu), Black Skimmer (Rynchops niger Linnaeus), Black-crowned Night Heron (Nycticorax nycticorax Linnaeus) and Great Egret (Ardea alba Linnaeus) populations all increased on LI over the sampling period although the Common Tern colonies in JBWR have been declining since 1986. The continued protection of the colony sites, particularly saltmarsh islands, in JBWR will be important to the conservation efforts of many colonial waterbird populations on Long Island. The JBWR colonies may serve as a source of emigrants to other Long Island colonies, and in some cases, act as a "sink" for birds immigrating from New Jersey and elsewhere.
10.2307/3858482|We used mist nets to examine the directional movement of 20,019 passerines on Appledore Island, Maine, during spring and fall migration. Based upon the seasonal trend of North American migration, the hypothesis was that migrant birds would be moving north in the spring and south in the fall. Results, however, indicate that in both seasons, birds were more likely to be flying north than south and were more likely to be flying west than east. The data for the most commonly captured species support the directional patterns observed among all individuals. Although all captures as well as captures in the first hour after sunrise indicate northward movement in both seasons, spring captures in the northward direction were significantly more prevalent than fall captures. Therefore, we suggest that the general migratory direction and the presence of an ecological barrier, the Atlantic Ocean, appear to influence the directional capture of stopover migrants. Recaptured birds generally showed a lack of directional movement in both seasons, although subsequent recaptures indicate northward movement by these migrants in the spring. Age did not appear to affect directional movement.
4130989|Exotic populations of Phragmites australis (common reed) are now present in southern New England wetland habitats where native populations were once abundant. We surveyed Rhode Island to determine the distribution of native and exotic P. australis, and used this information to build a publicly accessible Geographic Information System (GIS) database. All P. australis populations sampled on the mainland were exotic. We only found native populations growing throughout a network of tidal marshes and ponds on Block Island, and several of these populations are being overrun by expanding exotic populations. The GIS database from this survey can be expanded to other regions, and can be used for the conservation of the native subspecies and for ensuring that control efforts target only exotic populations.
41315951|Grasslands, and species dependent on them, have been declining throughout New England since large-scale farm abandonment began in the 19 th century. Several avian grassland obligates are now considered threatened within New England. During the summer of 2009, we inventoried breeding birds at the 10.5-ha National Guard training site in Strafford, NH using systematic surveys. Dolichonyx oryzivorus (Bobolinks), Sturnella magna (Eastern Meadowlarks), and Passerculus sandwichens is (Savannah Sparrows) were found breeding at the site. Bobolinks were the most abundant grassland obligate, and their nesting success on this site indicates that small grasslands may be just as useful in grassland bird conservation as larger habitat patches. Because large grasslands in New England are few and usually consist of hayfields and pasture, blueberry barrens, military and commercial airports, and landfills, focusing conservation efforts on smaller grasslands as well as large ones seems warranted.
10.2307/3858649|We describe the aggressive defense of a territory by a male Common Nighthawk against a migrating flock of conspecifics in Boston, Massachusetts. This observation is compared with those of Rust (1947) to illustrate the dynamics of territorial behavior in the Common Nighthawk.
3858332|The life histories, abundance, biomass, and production of two species of net-spinning caddisflies, Cheumatopsyche analis and Hydropsyche betteni Ross (Trichoptera: Hydropsychidae), were determined from a 3rd-order stream in Virginia. These are the only two species of hydropsychid caddisflies occurring in Upham Brook, which flows through a highly urbanized watershed and which is hydrologically altered by a small (4.85-ha) impoundment. Sampling was conducted at least monthly over one year at sites above, immediately below, and 1 km below the impoundment. Both species produced clear winter and spring-early summer generations as well as one or more additional, partial generations later in the summer. The annual mean density and biomass of C. analis were significantly greater (p < 0.05) immediately below the impoundment (2490 individuals/m<sup>2</sup>; 972 mg/m<sup>2</sup>) than above (1315 individuals/m<sup>2</sup>; 360 mg/m<sup>2</sup>) and 1 km downstream from the impoundment (1466 individuals/m<sup>2</sup>; 467 mg/m<sup>2</sup>). Annual production of C. analis was 18.2 g m<sup>-2</sup>yr<sup>-1</sup> immediately below the impoundment and 7.2-9.5 g m<sup>-2</sup>yr<sup>-1</sup> at the other sites. Mean density and biomass of H. betteni were significantly greater 1 km downstream from the impoundment (156 individuals/m<sup>2</sup>; 236 mg/m<sup>2</sup>) compared to above and immediately below the impoundment (28-44 individuals/m<sup>2</sup>; 13-38 mg/m<sup>2</sup>). Annual production of H. betteni was highest at 2.5 g m<sup>-2</sup>yr<sup>-1</sup> 1 km downstream from the impoundment and 0.3-0.7 g m<sup>-2</sup>yr<sup>-1</sup> at the other two sites. The production of both species thus was greatest below the impoundment, but peak production of the two species varied depending on the distance below the dam.
10.2307/3858697|Garlic mustard (Alliaria petiolata) is a non-native invasive herb that has the potential to alter the understory plant community. We investigated the reproductive output of garlic mustard as a function of plant size and conspecific and heterospecific density in a central Ohio population. In general, taller plants produced more reproductive units (seeds, siliques). Density of conspecifics and heterospecifics had no effect on plant height or reproductive output. Reproductive output in our population of garlic mustard is lower and mean seed size is larger than most other populations for which data have been published, possibly because of the dry upland habitat of our population.
60225652| Rockweeds dominate much of the New England and Canadian Maritime coasts and serve as food and habitat for numerous species. Cobscook Bay is unique in New England for its high tidal amplitude, wide intertidal expanse, diverse flora and fauna, and presumed high intertidal productivity, much of which is thought to be related to extensive intertidal fucoid populations. The goals of this study were: 1) to estimate intertidal rockweed biomass and productivity, 2) to quantify the variation in rockweed productivity over a range of temporal and spatial scales (high- vs low-flow sites at headlands and coves, respectively), and 3) to estimate the contribution of rockweeds to detrital pools. Net productivity was determined by separately weighing growth in the current year vs growth from preceding year classes. Sampling the same populations in both the fall and following spring allowed adjustment for winter mortality of thallus structures and productivity at two sites. Variation in the length of apical tips of canopy shoots was high, and differences among sites were not significant. However, growth of tips of sub-canopy and lateral shoots was site-specific. Standing crop at low-flow sites ranged from 11.4 kg wet weight m<sup>-2</sup> at Bar Island to 28.9 kg wet weight m<sup>-2</sup> at Bell Farm. Standing crop at high-flow sites ranged from 8.5 kg wet weight m<sup>-2</sup> at Birch Point to 26.7 kg wet weight m<sup>-2</sup> at Mahar Point. Adjusted productivity estimates ranged from 22 to 105% greater than unadjusted values. Highest productivity estimates for Ascophyllum (14.9 kg wet weight m<sup>-2</sup>yr<sup>-1</sup> or 894 g C m<sup>-2</sup>yr<sup>-1</sup>) occurred at Mahar Pt., a high-flow site. This unadjusted estimate was 50% higher than the average value (594 g C m<sup>-2</sup>yr<sup>-1</sup>) from the two sites adjusted for winter losses, Bell Farm and Bar Island. Turnover rates of Ascophyllum ranged from 29 to 71% (mean over all sites = 54%) indicating that the biomass of this alga turns over approximately every two years. About 60% of the standing biomass (3.96  10<sup>6</sup> g C y<tex-math>$\text{r}^{-1}$</tex-math>) is added to detrital pools, contributing large amounts of energy for secondary consumers. Rockweeds in Cobscook Bay are among the most productive cold-water intertidal assemblages and contribute substantial amounts of carbon to this large embayment. 
25177124|Emydoidea blandingii (Blanding's Turtle) is a Species of Special Concern in New Hampshire, yet it has received little research attention. As part of a broader study to establish conservation and management guidelines for this species, we radio-tagged 18 Blanding's Turtles to determine home range and movement patterns within two study areas of southeastern and central New Hampshire from 2000-2002. Mean daily movement of female turtles peaked in June coincident with nesting, whereas movement of males peaked in August and September coincident with an increase in mating activity. Median adaptive kernel home range (HR) and core range (CR) estimates for turtles in central New Hampshire (HR = 12.5 ha, CR = 3.1 ha) were larger as compared to southeastern populations (HR = 3.7 ha, CR = 1.6 ha). This difference could not be readily explained by characteristics of the turtles, such as age, size, or sex. New Hampshire populations of Blanding's Turtles exhibit intermediate home range sizes compared to other parts of the species distribution. Forty-five percent of turtles exhibited multimodal location distributions in core range estimates. Mating and estivating turtles were always found within their core range area, whereas turtles occasionally traveled outside of core ranges to seek suitable overwintering sites. Thirty-eight percent of turtles used the same overwintering habitat for 2 consecutive winters. Location-specific information regarding key nesting and overwintering areas may be important to the conservation of the species.
27744574|We investigated diet and its relationship to trophic morphology in Sternotherus odoratus (Stinkpot) in northwestern Pennsylvania on Presque Isle, Lake Erie. Three taxa were most prevalent in fecal samples: invasive Eurasian mussels, small snails, and trichopteran larvae. No sexual difference in diet was apparent, although males had relatively wider heads than females. Significant positive correlation of proportion of sample volume composed of mussels with width of the head and alveolar surfaces was accompanied by nonsignificant negative correlation of proportion composed of snails with both variables. The results thus suggest a shift in molluscan prey preference with increasing size of the trophic apparatus. Total consumption of mollusks was high relative to most other reports of Stinkpot diet. In the Laurentian Great Lakes, the Stinkpot is the second turtle species found to prey heavily upon invasive mussels and thereby participate in transferring production from the pelagic zone to the littoral zone.
10.2307/3858283|We counted the numbers of seals hauled out at low tide on two near-shore ledges in a protected cove in Casco Bay, Gulf of Maine a minimum of 12 times per month, for four years starting in August 1997. The highest mean monthly counts were in August (molting season) and the lowest in either January or February. Counts during pupping season (May and June) were lower than during April or July. As no mother-pup pairs were observed, these ledges are molting but not pupping ledges. Time-series analysis revealed no overall trend in the number of seals present, but did show a decreasing trend in the fraction of days each month that seals were present. Further observations are needed to determine if this trend is continuing and if it is present in other locations on the Maine coast.
10.2307/3858662|One female Hooded Warbler (Wilsonia citrina) was discovered singing in July 1993, and another in May 1996 among a color-banded breeding population under investigation. The first female's song structurally resembled the typical male Hooded Warbler mixed-mode song in duration, frequency range, and number of syllables, although it had an atypical raspy quality. Males responded similarly to playbacks of the female song and a male song from the same population. We suggest that age and high breeding density may be explanatory factors for this rare behavior.
3858334|Acorns comprise an important part of the diet of Tamias striatus Linnaeus (eastern chipmunks) and Sciurus spp. (squirrels) in eastern deciduous forests. These species prefer acorns from white oaks (section Quercus) for immediate consumption in the fall, but prefer acorns from red oaks (section Lobatae) for caching for winter use. In the fall, red oak acorns contain higher levels of lipids and tannins than white oak acorns. I tested for changes in lipid and tannin levels of acorns in simulated larderhoards and scatterhoards. Neither lipids nor tannins consistently increased or decreased during storage. Throughout the study, red oak acorns had lipid levels five to ten times greater than those of white oak acorns and tannin levels two to four times greater than those of white oak acorns.
10.2307/3858428|We studied the spatial pattern of seed predation across a forest-old field edge in both fall and winter to assess the potential for seed predators to influence plant spatial patterns. We used a 100  100 m grid that began 30 m inside the forest and extended 60 m into the old field. Inside this grid we placed seed stations at regular 10 m intervals and monitored seed removal. Seed predation varied significantly across the edge gradient in both fall and winter with the highest rate of seed removal at the edge in both trials. The spatial pattern of seed predation also differed between seasons. The field portion of the site ( 30 m from the edge) was characterized by high seed removal rates in winter and low removal rates in fall. This spatial and temporal variation may alter tree establishment, causing long-term changes in plant community composition and structure.
4130972|A simple heat budget has been constructed for Mount Hope Bay (MHB) for two one-month periods: winter 1999 (February-March) and summer 1997 (August-September). The box model considered here includes the heat contributions to MHB from the Brayton Point Power Station (BPPS), the exchange across the air-water interface, the Taunton River, and the tidal exchange between MHB and both Narragansett Bay and the Sakonnet River (NB/SR). Comprehensive measurements of MHB temperature fields by Applied Science Associates, Inc., and meteorological data from T. F. Green Airport (Warwick, RI) were used to estimate the different heat flux component contributions. The box model results for winter show that the BPPS heating is balanced (within the uncertainty of the estimates) by air-water cooling alone. The simple winter balance does not hold during the summer, when heat losses due to tidal exchanges between MHB and NB/SR are important. The summer heat budget of MHB--including BPPS heating, air-water cooling and tidal exchange cooling--can be balanced (within the uncertainty of the estimates) by assuming that 3% of the colder NB/SR tidal input water is exchanged with the warmer MHB water during each tidal cycle. The air-water cooling accounts for 84.4% of the total cooling, and the tidal exchange accounts for 15.6% of the total cooling. Taunton River contributions to the heat budget were negligible in both seasons. Analyses show that the model temperature is most sensitive to uncertainty in the measurements used to estimate the air-water heat fluxes--the relative humidity in particular. Thus, local MHB measurements are important for accurate monitoring of the MHB heat budget in the future.
25177063|Prior to this study, undocumented morphological variation in Lythrurus umbratilis (Redfin Shiner) has impaired identification of many samples of eastern populations of the species. Meristics, morphometrics, tuberculation, pigmentation, and nuptial male coloration of over 700 specimens of L. umbratilis were examined in order to assess patterns of geographic variation and species limits in the Ohio River basin. Principle component and spatial autocorrelation analyses of these data demonstrate that morphological variation in L. umbratilis is clinal along most of the length of the Ohio River basin. Specimens from eastern populations have less black in the dorsal fin of breeding males, have lower mean scale counts, and are more slender than western populations. The cline does not extend into central and northern Ohio, as populations have relatively high meristic counts and more robust males. These analyses suggest that recognition of an additional species in the Ohio River basin is not warranted at this time. The cline may reflect the influence of drainage evolution of the region, or even past gene flow with Lythrurus fasciolaris (Scarlet Shiner), a closely related species with a distribution parapatric to that of L. umbratilis.
40664837|The US Geological Survey conducted an urban land-use study in the New England Coastal Basins (NECB) area during 2001 to determine how urbanization relates to changes in the ecological condition of streams. Thirty sites were selected that differed in their level of watershed development (low to high). An urban intensity value was calculated for each site from 24 landscape variables. Together, these 30 values reppresented a gradient of urban intensity. Among various biological, chemical, and physical factors surveyed at each site, benthic invertebrate assemblages were sampled from stream riffles and also from multiple habitats along the length of the sampling reach. We use some of the NECB data to derive a four-variable urbanintensity index (NECB-UII), where each variable represents a distinct component of urbanization: increasing human presence, expanding infrastructure, landscape development, and riparian vegetation loss. Using the NECB-UII as a characterization of urbanization, we describe how landscape fragmentation occurs with urbanization and how changes in the invertebrate assemblages, represented by metrics of ecological condition, are related to urbanization. Metrics with a strong linear response included EPT taxa richness, percentage richness of non-insect taxa, and pollution-tolerance values. Additionally, we describe how these relations can help in estimating the expected condition of a stream for its level of urbanization, thereby establishing a baseline for evaluating possible affects from specific point-source stressors.
10.2307/3858477|Williamsonia lintneri is a rare dragonfly species restricted to southern New England and some northern states. In 1999, I tested the hypothesis that upland development around wetlands reduces habitat suitability for W. lintneri through increased nutrient runoff. I examined 27 wetlands and analyzed water quality and depth data, the composition of aquatic invertebrate assemblages, and land use patterns. Sites where W. lintneri was present did not differ in water quality from sites where it was absent (i.e., null sites). However, W. lintneri sites had significantly deeper levels of water throughout the summer, were dry for shorter periods of time, and had significantly lower levels of development in the surrounding uplands than did null sites. These results suggest that both hydrologic cycle and upland development are important in limiting the local distribution of this species.
43287120|We discovered a live Baeolophus bicolor (Tufted Titmouse) entangled in the burrs of Hackelia virginiana (Beggar's Lice) on 28 September 2012 in Kutztown, PA. We extracted and released the titmouse because it appeared to be unable to free itself from the plant. To our knowledge, this is the second published report of a bird becoming entangled in Beggar's Lice and the first documentation of a Tufted Titmouse becoming entangled in any plant. Entanglement in Beggar's Lice is unusual because of the small size (3-4 mm) of its burrs.
41810143|Seasonal forest pools (SFPs), also known as woodland vernal pools or simply vernal pools, are common throughout the forests of the northeastern United States. SFPs are inundated during all or part of the period between late fall of one year and late spring to mid-summer of the subsequent year. The pools dry every year or at sufficient frequency to preclude the establishment of fish populations, are preferred breeding habitat for a number of amphibian species, and support a rich, diverse, and abundant macroinvertebrate community. These pools exist as aquatic "islands" in a "sea" of forest, and occur over a range of sizes, degrees of isolation, and hydroperiod lengths. As islands, pool area and isolation should affect the composition of biotic communities. The hydroperiod of ephemeral wetlands has been considered a third "island" attribute and is also known to affect biotic composition. We surveyed aquatic, benthic macroinvertebrates (BMIs) for two years using leaf-packs in 24 SFPs, representing a broad range of surface areas, inter-pool distances (isolation), and hydroperiods. Nearly 35,000 specimens of 76 taxa were enumerated from 198 leaf-pack samples. Chironomidae and Oligochaeta were the most abundant and most common taxa. BMI richness and diversity were positively, but weakly, related to maximum pool surface area, but not to pool isolation. The same results were found for permanent resident and predator taxa. BMI richness and diversity were positively related with pool hydroperiod, as reported from numerous other studies of ephemeral aquatic habitats.
41495818|Most of the ultramafic rocks from Newfoundland to Alabama, inland from the Atlantic Ocean, and from Arkansas to Texas, inland from the Gulf of Mexico, are peridotites and serpentinites derived from the mantle in oceanic or magmatic-arc settings. They were accreted to a precursor of the North American continent more than 0.25 Ga ago. The serpentine soils range from very cold Entisols and Histosols in Newfoundland and Quebec to cold or cool Inceptisols southward to the limit of late Pleistocene glaciation about latitude 41N. They are warm to hot Alfisols in the unglaciated areas from New Jersey south to Alabama, with some Mollisols in the Blue Ridge Mountains. Mollisols are the dominant serpentine soils in the drier Llano uplift of Texas. The woody vegetation on the serpentine soils is relatively sparse or stunted, or both. Many of the plant species grow mainly or only on serpentine soils, and some that are common on other soils do not grow on serpentine soils. Some of the species are circumpolar and are common on serpentine soils in both eastern and western North America, and some have distributions that are disjunct from populations on nonserpentine soils of midcontinental prairies. The most distinctive features of serpentine soils are low exchangeable Ca/Mg ratios and high first-transition element concentrations from Cr through Mn, Fe, and Co to Ni. Although some of the serpentine plants have relatively high Ni contents that are toxic to some plants, it is mostly the low Ca/Mg ratios that are responsible for the unique plant assemblages on serpentine soils. The serpentine soils have soil organic matter contents comparable to those of nonserpentine soils.
10.2307/3858430|Two species of the genus Vaucheria, V. lii Rieth and V. racemosa (Vaucher) DC., are reported from Connecticut and New England for the first time. Despite sampling over 150 freshwater habitats in Connecticut, each species has been located only at a single site. Culture conditions in the laboratory stimulated growth and, after extended periods of time, the production of gametangia allowing for the identification of each species. Despite its worldwide distribution, V. lii is shown to be a rarely collected species throughout its range.
41315970|In June 2001, we located an active Ixobrychus exilis (Least Bittern) nest in Bass Harbor marsh on Mount Desert Island, Hancock County, ME. Only 2 other descriptions of Least Bittern nests exist for Maine, although based on other breeding evidence, the species is known to breed elsewhere in the state. We found the nest in a 0.7-ha Typha sp. (cattail)-dominated area within a larger (3.5 ha) freshwater wetland located 120 m from an 88-ha estuary. During the breeding season, most Least Bitterns in Maine and elsewhere are found in wetlands of greater size, usually >10 ha.
10.2307/3858354|Ozone is a secondary air pollutant formed under conditions of bright sunlight and warm temperatures as a result of photochemical reactions involving nitrogen oxides and hydrocarbons as primary precursor pollutants. Tropospheric ozone is of regional-scale importance due to long-range transport of polluted air masses from urban and industrial areas of the Midwest and Northeast into agricultural and forested regions situated downwind of these expansive source regions. Ozone is perhaps the most important air pollutant of concern to the long-term productivity and health of trees and other native plants which comprise our natural and forested areas of the Northeast. On broadleaf species, foliar injury is exhibited as a stipple and/or more general pigmentation of the upper leaf surface late in the growing season. These symptoms are considered to be the best response parameter to observe and relate to ambient ozone exposures; ozone-induced injuries on conifers are more difficult to diagnose. Several plant species are known as bioindicators of ozone exposures; symptom observations from a recent open-top chamber investigation in central Pennsylvania confirm black cherry, yellow poplar, white ash, common milkweed, spreading dogbane, and blackberry to be sensitive to ambient ozone exposures. Concerns for lack of ozone air pollution monitoring in remote forested areas and more complete understanding of the effects to tree species and other native plants are discussed.
4130983|Composition of southern Appalachian forests are influenced by disturbance and topography. This study examined six stands in southwestern Virginia. Within each stand, a 0.3-ha plot was established, and all trees and saplings were measured and aged. Burned stands had lower densities of saplings and small trees, but appeared to have greater Quercus regeneration. Ice damage from the 1994 ice storm was most evident in Pinus strobus saplings. A stand on old coal-mine slag appeared to be experiencing a slower rate of succession than other sites. A variety of stand development patterns were observed, but one common pattern was that oak-hickory overstories had different species in their understory, which may indicate future changes in species composition.
4130982|We studied the diet of Desmognathus welteri (Black Mountain Salamander) and compared it with the diet of D. monticola (Seal Salamander) in sympatry, using stomach contents. The diets of the two species were 86.6% similar, with four of five top prey categories in common. The most numerically important prey items for both species were adult dipterans and coleopterans and winged hymenopterans. Desmognathus welteri consumed a larger percentage of aquatic prey. No salamander remains were found in the stomachs of either species, weakening the supposition that large desmognathines are significant predators on small ones. We suggest that the differences in diet are a result of differences in microhabitat use and body size.
27744546|Stenamma diecki is a small ant with a widespread distribution. Systematic plot excavations in two locations have allowed us to collect data on a large number of S. diecki nests in order to examine seasonal and spatial differences in nest demography and allocation decisions within this species. Populations of this species from New York and Vermont nest in cavities far more commonly than has been reported, and thus we could compare our results with data on this species and with patterns of demography and reproduction for two other well-studied cavity-dwelling ants. We found nests were monogynous at all locations, but showed considerable variation in mean queen number and mean worker number. Most nests did not produce any males or reproductive females in a season, and this pattern was also site specific. Sexual and reproductive allocation was similar for all sites tested. Finally, demographic patterns within a site over 3 seasons are consistent with those predicted by seasonal polydomy.
10.2307/3858565|This study addresses the secondary succession of abandoned Pinus resinosa (red pine) and Picea glauca (white spruce) plantations in upstate New York. Both red pine and white spruce are not regenerating in the unmanaged plantations. Successful regeneration of hardwood tree species in the white spruce plantations occurred only within the 25-30 years following planting. Higher light levels in the red pine stands have led to a greater degree of subsequent hardwood invasion than in the white spruce stands. The impact of abandoned conifer plantations will have long-term effects, altering the forest species composition for several hundred years. However, the plantations will eventually return to a natural forest composition, and expansion of planted conifers into adjacent undisturbed forests is unlikely.
10.2307/3858399|Propagules of four species of the algal genus Vaucheria-V. aversa, V. frigida, V. prona, and V. undulata--are shown to survive enteric passage through the exotic earthworm, Metaphire levis. One species previously known from the northeastern Connecticut collection site, V. geminata, did not appear in the worm castings cultures, and another, V. aversa, was previously unknown there. In that earthworm castings are a mechanism for the movement of soils, we postulate that they can also be the source of dispersal of Vaucheria propagules which, when wafted into the atmosphere as dust from castings, could disperse to nearby or distant locations.
41684256|St. Pauls Inlet, a fjord-type estuary on Newfoundland's west coast, was sampled for near-shore fish populations during August 2010. A total of 1451 fish were caught, comprising 15 species and representing nine families. Sampling was carried out using a 10-m beach seine, minnow traps, and multi-paneled gill nets. The objective of this study was to document the near-shore fish fauna within St. Pauls Inlet and compare with other data sets from Newfoundland and Labrador. A total of seven sites were sampled along the Inlet and the outer bay. Sites were chosen to best represent a potential range in salinities, and for ease of accessibility. Cluster analysis performed on species presence/absence data indicated high similarity between sites based on the Jaccard similarity coefficient. In terms of regional fish fauna, the St. Pauls sites clustered with freshwater-influenced sites from Bonne Bay (western Newfoundland), and were distinct from the more marine sites of Trinity Bay (eastern Newfoundland) and Gilbert Bay (Labrador).
27744593|We used nest boxes to study communal nesting and breeding habits of Glaucomys volans (Southern Flying Squirrel) at high elevations over a wide geographic range in western Virginia from 1985 to 1996. Of 320 occupied nest boxes, 19.1% contained litters, 20.3% contained solitary adults, 45.9% had adult aggregations, and 14.7% contained individuals or aggregations of unknown age. Aggregation size ranged from 212 individuals. Group size appeared larger during winter months, while the greatest number of aggregations peaked between June and August; however, neither trend was significant. Females were significantly more numerous than males in mixed-age aggregations, while males were significantly more abundant than females in adult aggregations. The breeding season, from first conception to last weaning, lasted 4648 weeks, from the fourth week of January through the second week of December. Two distinct parturition peaks were evident in late March to mid-April and mid-August to mid-September. Our data support the hypothesis that reproductive activity of Southern Flying Squirrels varies by latitude and is primarily determined by photoperiod length, at least in temperate areas.
27744592|On 6 May 2003, a tornado severely damaged 284 ha of Mermet Lake State Forest and Wildlife Area in southern Illinois. We used mist nets and Anabat ultrasonic detectors to determine if community composition and habitat use of bats differed between the tornado-disturbed forest and surrounding undisturbed forest during the summers of 2004 and 2005. Ten species of bats (118 individuals) were caught using mist nets on sites in undisturbed forest; 4 species (11 individuals) were mist-netted on disturbed sites (2 = 34.24, df = 1, P &lt; 0.0001). The Anabat system documented six species on both habitat types with no difference in the number of bat passes detected acoustically. We suspect that apparent differences in mist-net data reflect the greater ability of bats on the disturbed sites to avoid nets. Telemetry data and field observations confirmed bats used disturbed and undisturbed areas for roosting and foraging. Unless precluded by higher fire danger, we suggest that tornado-disturbed areas remain non-salvaged because they provide additional roosting and foraging habitat for many bat species.
10.2307/3858470|Subcoccinella vigintiquatuorpunctata, an herbivorous coccinellid beetle of Eurasian origin, is now established in New England, as evidenced by the persistence of two central Connecticut populations from 1997-2001. The beetle's pupal surface bears glandular hairs that produce a secretion known to consist principally of three polyazamacrolide alkaloids. We demonstrate that the secretion serves as a potent antipredator defense: contact with it elicited pronounced cleaning activity by the predatory ant Crematogaster lineolata. Additionally, application of the secretion to palatable food items rendered them unacceptable to the ant. This is one of few studies to examine the chemical defense of an introduced animal vis  vis a predator native to its new environment.
40664881|Forested parks are an urban oasis, and forest management plays an important part in their maintenance. I used a systematic sampling technique to quantify the vegetation and propagule bank in a small urban park prior to and following a forest management event. The number of non-forest species and the abundance of Toxicodendron radicans (Poison Ivy) increased after forest harvest. Distance from an edge did not affect the change in vegetation. In the propagule bank, loss of basal area in a plot was positively correlated with an increase in the percent of species that were non-forest and non-native. The Srenson coefficient of community similarity comparing the species composition of the vegetation before and after harvest was 0.769 (out of 1.0), but that for the propagule bank was 0.308. Forest management practices in small urban parks should be designed with extreme caution due to the volatile settings of these refuges.
41684230|The mesopelagic fish fauna in the Slope Sea off the Canadian continental shelf from 50 to 64W is documented based on 10 surveys conducted in 1984-89. Species composition and relative species abundance by water mass (Labrador Slope Water [LSW], Warm Slope Water [WSW], and Gulf Stream), and their variation with season and fishing depth, are described. The most abundant species in collections was Ceratoscopelus maderensis, and this species dominated in WSW samples, but Benthosema glaciale was the predominant species in LSW samples. Gulf Stream samples were few and represented boundary conditions. Those species that were common in catches showed a seasonal variation in catch rate. Species composition varied with depth fished, deeper tows containing species, such as Cyclothone spp., that did not migrate to surface layers at night. The collections were comprised of at least 250 species. Although many of them have been reported from adjacent areas to the southwest, 35% of these species are new records for the sampled area, and 19 species are new records for the Slope Sea. Although a species accumulation curve indicates that more species would have been captured with additional sampling, it is likely that all species that occur regularly in the study area are represented in the species list.
60225661|In the mid-1990s, an interdisciplinary, multi-institutional team of scientists was assembled to address basic issues concerning biological productivity and the unique co-occurrence of many unusual ecological features in Cobscook Bay, ME. Cobscook Bay is a geologically complex, macrotidal system located on the international border at the mouth of the Bay of Fundy. The strategy adopted by the scientific team was to synthesize the known information on Cobscook Bay, focus new field research on information needs related to basic forcing functions and biological primary productivity, and organize the information in an energy systems model to evaluate the flows of energy and materials through the ecosystem and relate them to the inflows of physical energy using the accounting quantity, emergy. As a consequence of this process, diverse new and existing data have been combined and analyzed, leading to new ways of thinking about the functioning of Cobscook Bay and macrotidal estuaries. The principal finding is that an extraordinary convergence of natural energies creates ideal conditions for supporting the development of ecological organization found in few, if any, other estuarine systems. In this contribution, we review the finding of the component research exercises, discuss their integration into an energy systems model and emergy analysis, and suggest a number of fruitful avenues for future research.
10.2307/3858345|The availability of natural cavities for cavity-nesting waterfowl, especially wood ducks (Aix sponsa), was unknown for the regenerating forest of Sunkhaze Meadows National Wildlife Refuge, ME. An assessment of cavity availability was needed to determine if the existing nesting box program should be increased. During November to March, 1996-97 and 1997-98, I sampled 56 one-half ha random plots, stratified into 5 types (upland hardwood, upland conifer, upland mixwood, wetland conifer, and wetland hardwood) to assess availability of trees with cavities. The predominant tree species with cavities were red maple (Acer rubrum; 39%) and aspen (Populus sp.; 31%); 72% of all trees with cavities were alive. Density of nest-cavity trees/plot averaged from 1.00.4 (xSE) in wetland softwoods to 1.90.4 in upland hardwoods. This low density of potential cavity trees and the small mean dbh (39.4  1.6 cm) indicate a young forest with few suitable cavities. Forested areas, especially hardwoods near canopy openings, need to be allowed to mature to increase the number and quality of future cavities. An expanded nest box program seems justified.
41429236|White-tailed Deer (Odocoileus virginianus) have overbrowsed much of the hemlock-mixed northern hardwood forest in northeastern Pennsylvania. I investigated the possible deleterious effect of this overbrowsing on 4 ground-cover-dependent small-mammal species through the use of deer exclosures. From May through September 1996-2005,4x10 Sherman live-trap grids were placed in two 0.65-ha exclosures and their adjacent control sites in forest heavily browsed by deer. One exclosure was located beneath a primarily oak-maple canopy and the other exclosure under Tsuga canadensis (Eastern Hemlock). More Myodes gapperi (Southern Red-backed Vole) were captured in the oakmaple grids than in the hemlock grids and more M. gapperi were taken in the oak-maple exclosure than in the neighboring control. Microtus pinetorum (Woodland Vole) first appeared at the grids six years after the exclosure construction, and a large majority were taken in the oak-maple exclosure. Of Blarina brevicauda (Northern Short-tailed Shrew) captured at zthe grids, 80% were taken in the oak-maple grids and 58% in the oak-maple exclosure. Beginning in 2000, most of Sorex cinereus (Masked Shrew) captured were taken in the oakmaple habitat. Most of those trapped under the oak-maple canopy were taken in the control. These observations suggest that heavy deer browsing may depress populations of M. gapperi, M. pinetorum, and E. brevicauda, but not Sorex cinereus.
25177101|We analyzed 73 eels, collected in 2004 and 2005 above the head of tide in six Hudson River tributaries, for total PCBs, length, weight, age, and nitrogen stable isotope ratios (N). Mean total PCB concentration (wet weight basis) was 0.23 ppm  0.08 (standard error), with a range of 0.008 to 5.4 ppm. A majority of eels (84%) had concentrations below 0.25 ppm, and only seven eels (10%) had concentrations exceeding 0.5 ppm. Those eels with higher PCB concentrations were 12 yr; there was a weak correlation of PCB concentration with N and also with weight. Compared to recent (2003) data from the mainstem of the Hudson River estuary, these results indicate that tributaries are generally much less contaminated with PCBs. We hypothesize that those tributary eels with high PCB concentrations were relatively recent immigrants from the mainstem. Given concern over the possible adverse effects of PCBs on eel reproduction, these tributaries may serve as refugia. Therefore, providing improved access to upland tributaries may be critically important to this species.
25177108|We studied movement distances and home ranges of Blarina brevicauda (northern short-tailed shrew) for 25 years in bluegrass, alfalfa, and tallgrass habitats in east-central Illinois. Whereas habitat and season influenced movement distances, population density and apparent predation risk did not. Specifically, movement distances were larger in tallgrass than in either alfalfa or bluegrass, presumably because of lower food availability in tallgrass as compared to the other two habitats. Movement distances of both sexes were slightly larger during the breeding season than the non-breeding season, perhaps reflecting searching for mates (males) and increased energetic demands of reproduction (females). Home-range areas did not differ between alfalfa (236 m) and bluegrass (252 m); we could not obtain reliable estimates from tallgrass. These data add to the limited information available on movements and home-range areas of the northern short-tailed shrew.
27744596|Poutwater Pond Bog is a National Natural Landmark located in Holden, MA. As present-day species inhabiting this bog have been described, this study presents an insight into earlier inhabitants of the area during the mid- to late Holocene. A 5-m coring of peat was collected 10 m from the pond edge. Radiocarbon analysis of 10 sections of the core shows a nearly linear accumulation rate of peatland from 8500 years ago to the present. The presence of mineral matter at the base of the core suggests paulidification as the mechanism for formation of the bog. Microfossils were isolated from sections of the peat core by density-buoyant centrifugation, and examined using a scanning electron microscope. High-resolution images of pollen, sponge remains, and algae are presented. Circumneutral and acidobiontic diatoms were found at different depths of the core, indicating a changing water environment over time. Arboreal pollen grains were documented spanning 8500 years of vegetative history, permitting insight into the biodiversity that once existed.
4130973|On behalf of Brayton Point Station, an electrical generating plant located on the shore of Mount Hope Bay, the authors performed an innovative biothermal modeling assessment to evaluate effects of heat load from the Station on 10 bay-resident fish and shellfish species. The assessment linked several biological functions (growth, reproduction, avoidance, migratory blockage, and thermal mortality) to hydrothermal simulations of the Station's thermal plume under two plant-operating scenarios and the no-plant scenario. The assessment methodology is described, and results are presented for Pseudopleuronectes americanus (winter flounder), the species with the lowest thermal tolerance temperatures of those studied. Based on the modeling approach and input assumptions, the effects of the Station's thermal discharge on the winter flounder life stages and functions studied were found to be negligible, especially when compared to other effects such as fishing pressure. The largest plant effect observed was only 3.9 percentage points more than for the no-plant scenario (compared to a fishing effect of approximately 40-50%). Limitations of the model and potential future refinements to address additional biological effects are discussed and evaluated. The modeling methodology used to complete this study represents a novel and scientifically grounded approach to quantifying the Station's thermal impacts on the biota of Mount Hope Bay.
43288160|Research in alpine areas of northeastern North America has been poorly coordinated, with minimal communication among researchers, and it has rarely been multidisciplinary. A workshop was organized to review the state of alpine research in northeastern North America, to facilitate cooperation, and to encourage discussion about research priorities for the region's alpine habitat, which occurs in four US states and the southern part of Qubec, Canada. More than 40 researchers with diverse expertise participated in the discussions, including lichenologists, botanists, herpetologists, ornithologists, ecosystem scientists, climatologists, conservation biologists, land managers, and others. Research priorities were developed through post-workshop discussions and an online survey, and they are presented here, along with a summary of the process used to organize the workshop. In addition to specific research questions, strong support was expressed for creation of a network of long-term alpine monitoring sites where a standardized protocol would be used to collect data on biotic and abiotic parameters. Researchers also strongly endorsed the creation of an organization to continue the exchange of information.
3858545|An outbreak of armyworms, Pseudaletia unipuncta, occurred in widely separated sites in New England during the summer of 2001. Heavy mortality of caterpillars was noted in severely damaged suburban lawns and destroyed hayfields. Microscopic examinations of 90 moribund or recently expired caterpillars collected in Connecticut revealed a nuclear polyhedrosis virus (NPV) in 59 (66%) individuals from 5 of 6 sites. Virus development occurred in the nuclei and cytoplasm of the fat body. Based on ultrastructural studies, the NPV observed in Connecticut appears to be similar to a strain described earlier for armyworms in California and Hawaii.
25177122|Cyanobacteria blooms have long been described for Chesapeake Bay nontidal and tidal waters, but measurable toxin has only been recently recorded. During September 2000, the earliest tidal-water records of cyanotoxins in the Bay identified microcystin from a Microcystis-dominated bloom on the Sassafras River. Between 2000 and 2006, opportunistic samples collected from cyanobacteria blooms were analyzed for toxin concentration to better inform natural resource, agriculture, and human-health management agencies on potential bloom-related health risks. The hepatotoxin microcystin was detected most frequently and over a range of concentrations from 2.9  10 to 6.58  10 g L. Microcystin levels exceeded literature-based chronic drinking-water guidance values of 1 g L and recreational safety guidance for children of 10 g L in 71% and 31% of samples, respectively. Samples from tidal fresh and oligohaline habitats showed a log-normal distribution of toxin concentrations, and microcystin had positive log-linear relationship with Microcystis aeruginosa cell counts (r = 0.42). A subset of the samples positive for microcystin was also tested for neurotoxins and showed anatoxin-a as the next-most common toxin encountered (46% of samples tested) at concentrations from 3  10 to 3 g L. Saxitoxin (PSP-toxin) was present in trace amounts (3  10 g L) in one sample. Cylindrospermopsis raciborskii has occasionally been found in abundance, but all tests for cylindrospermopsin were negative. Microcystin and anatoxin-a have been identified in association with fish kills, bird kills, and human-health events. Virginia and Maryland state management agencies conducted beach closures during 2000, 2003, and 2004 and provided waterway health advisories in 2005 and 2006 in response to the findings.
4130976|Brayton Point Station is a 1600-MW electrical generating station located on Brayton Point, in Somerset, MA. The Station draws water from Mount Hope Bay at the Taunton and Lee Rivers for cooling purposes, and discharges the water back into the Bay, through a discharge canal. Mount Hope Bay is a shallow estuary located on the boundary between Rhode Island and Massachusetts. In connection with the renewal of the permit authorizing the withdrawal and discharge of cooling water, a series of studies on Mount Hope Bay were initiated by the owners of Brayton Point Station. These studies included both field and computer modeling components. A hydrothermal model capable of simulating the effects of Brayton Point Station on the Mount Hope Bay waters under a variety of operating scenarios was calibrated using the observed data. Additional cases were run to evaluate the effects of reduced discharges of heated effluent incorporating a cooling tower (enhanced multi mode operation) as well as the case of no discharge. Model results indicated that the temporal temperature variations occur over tidal to annual time scales. Seasonal variations were most discernible in the shallow upper reaches of the Bay, showing warmer than average temperatures during summer and cooler during winter. The calibrated hydrothermal model was also used to estimate the bottom area and water column volume coverage versus temperatures, which helps to quantify the effects of station heat load on the biological functions of winter flounder in Mount Hope Bay.
3858541|As part of a comprehensive study of the effects of landscape change on the demography of aquatic turtles, we investigated the use of upland habitats by adult female painted turtles (Chrysemys picta) during the nesting season. We intentionally selected three ponds that were surrounded by a range of land uses and development (e.g., road density ranged from 0.9 to 7.3 km/km<sup>2</sup>. Terrestrial locations of transmitter-equipped turtles (n = 8) and unmarked females that were incidentally encountered (n = 10) were recorded to: i) determine the distance traveled to nesting habitat, ii) estimate the frequency that female turtles crossed roads to reach nesting habitat, and iii) examine how the abundance of potential nesting habitat affected distance traveled. Average straight-line distance from shoreline to the site a female turtle was encountered ranged from 54 to 115 m for the three ponds. We estimated that marked turtles made five road crossings and two turtles were killed by vehicles. Distance traveled was negatively correlated with the abundance of nesting habitat near a pond. Although adult females are probably less vulnerable when nesting occurs near pond shores, nests created near pond edges may be more vulnerable to predation. As a result, providing additional nesting habitat away from roads and other potential sources of mortality may enhance recruitment among local turtle populations.
10.2307/3858575|The marine waters of New York State (excluding the Hudson River) are home to a large and diverse ichthyofauna that includes pelagics, migratory coastal fishes, resident species, anadromous and catadromous fishes, euryhalineestuarine forms, and freshwater and deep-ocean strays. This diversity is attributable, in part, to the broad variety of habitats composing New York's marine waters. Also, although New York is located near the center of the Virginian biogeographic province, seasonal representatives of the Acadian and Carolinian provinces increase the breadth of its ichthyofauna. We record 338 fishes (114 families) reported from these waters, with annotations where warranted. Rare and unusual specimens are documented where possible with museum and literature citations.
3858310|Nocturnal activity and diurnal roosts of Myotis sodalis (Indiana bat) were studied during autumn swarming in 2000 near a hibernaculum in Bland County, VA. Bats were active in 9 habitats, using open deciduous forests more fequently, and developed lands, closed deciduous habitats, and mixed deciduous-evergreen habitats less frequently than would be expected based on random use of available habitats. Agricultural lands, intermediate deciduous forests, old field, and water were used in proportion to availability. Wooded pastures (agricultural) and recently logged areas (open woodland) provided foraging habitat. Many bats used multiple diurnal roosts; twenty-six roosts were found in 9 species of trees. Five bats, males and females, used the same roost tree for 2-3 consecutive days. Many roosts were near canopy openings; ten were in selective cut, clear-cut, and pastured woodlands with scattered trees and open canopies, and 5 were near or along logging roads or powerline corridors with open canopies. Eleven roosts were in forests with moderate to high canopy closure. Roosts were clumped near the cave (mean = 0.8 km; SD = 0.3). Roosts closer to the cave,, although limited in number, may provide an advantage during swarming. Prolonged wet, cold weather systems appear to be a part of the seasonal cycle that drives timing of autumn swarming.
41495802|In this study, soils and plants of ultramafc areas of Neyriz, in the south of Iran, were collected, identified, and analyzed for "serpentine" metals. Soil analysis of total element concentrations indicated that maximum total concentrations (g g) of Ni = 1250, Cr = 200, Co = 295, Mn = 1850, Fe = 105,300, Mg = 73,000, and Ca = 2800. The maximum concentration of exchangeable Ni in these soils was of 4.7 g g . During this study, 116 plant species belonging to 30 families were collected and a few species were endemic to ultramafic soils of these areas. Analysis of the plant leaves did not reveal any hyperaccumulators of Ni or any other "serpentine" metals. The highest concentrations of Ni (140 g g) and Co (47 g g) were found in Rheum ribes. The highest concentration of Cr (76 g g) was measured in Nepeta glomerulosa.
10.2307/3858675|We captured 159 bats in the Allegheny Plateau and Ridge and Valley physiographic provinces of West Virginia during summer 1998, including the northern long-eared myotis (Myotis septentrionalis; n = 40), little brown myotis (M. lucifugus; n = 34), big brown bat (Eptesicus fuscus; n = 29), eastern pipistrelle (Pipistrellus subflavus; n = 27), eastern red bat (Lasiurus borealis; n = 22), hoary bat (L. cinereus; n = 5), and silver-haired bat (Lasionycteris noctivagans; n = 2). We analyzed fecal pellets of each bat to determine food habits. Diets of northern long-eared myotis and eastern red bats were dominated by Coleoptera (42.3 and 24.5%, respectively) and Lepidoptera (31.1 and 47.0%, respectively). Diet of big brown bats primarily consisted of Coleoptera (67.5%). Diet of hoary bats was dominated by Lepidoptera (98%). Diet of silver-haired bats was moderately diverse, but primarily composed of Lepidoptera (47.5%) and Diptera (20.0%). Diets of little brown myotis and eastern pipistrelles were highly diverse, consuming an even proportion of six orders of insects including Coleoptera, Hemiptera, Lepidoptera, Homoptera, Diptera, Hymenoptera, and Tricoptera. Diets of these seven species of bats did not differ notably from diet of each species reported from other regions of the eastern United States. Our results provide information about food habits of bats that are common throughout the central Appalachian Mountains.
43287131|The invasive crab Hemigrapsus sanguineus (Asian Shore Crab) arrived on the northeast coast of the United States about fifteen years ago, and has attained high population levels at the expense of other resident crabs. Data collected between 1998-2012 at a low-energy, rocky intertidal site in the western Long Island Sound reveal continued Asian Shore Crab dominance. A body of research has suggested several reasons for the success of the Asian Shore Crab, including prdation on resident crabs. We coupled morphometric data with measurements of claw closure force to model strength as a function of crab size and sex, enabling interspecific comparisons. The model provides indirect support for conclusions of an earlier study that suggested Asian Shore Crab dominance was achieved through prdation on juvenile recruits of resident crabs such as Carcinus maenas (Green Crab). Asian Shore Crab males may have had more impact than females on Green Crabs due to the sexual dimorphism of Asian Shore Crab chelae and consequent strength disparity.
10.2307/3858487|A list of freshwater fishes is presented for Acadia National Park, Mount Desert Island, Maine, based on past survey records, published and unpublished reports, and recent comprehensive surveys within or bordering Park boundaries conducted in 1998 and 1999. Overall, 31 species of fishes have been recorded in freshwaters of the Park or those bordering Park boundaries; 28 of these are still present. Of those, 15 species are likely native to Mount Desert Island, and the indigenous status of one fish species is unknown. The most widely distributed species in lakes and ponds is the golden shiner, Notemigonus crysoleucas Mitchill (83% of ponds), while the most widely-distributed species in brooks is the brook trout, Salvelinus fontinalis Mitchill (56%).
4130739|We used microfossils preserved in salt-marsh peat to understand the landscape processes (both natural and anthropogenic) that have influenced the environment. Variations in the abundance of fossil pollen of native species suggest that the vegetation of this small, exposed island has been dominated by low, shrubby vegetation since before the arrival of Europeans in the early 1600s. Increases in non-native species since that time may reflect disturbance of the soil associated with grazing and other activities. Sorrel (Rumex) pollen, which indicates local grazing, declines by the late 19th century, whereas Chenopodiaceae/Amaranthaceae pollen, an indicator of disturbed soil, is most abundant since 1900. Charcoal abundance shows that fires, probably ignited by humans both before and after 1600 A.D., have burned on the island throughout the last 1000 years. In addition, increases in soot and opaque spherules in sediments reflect increased air pollution during the last 100 years. Our analyses provide benchmarks for modern management by documenting pre-European conditions as well as the extent to which the modern environment differs from that prior to the settlement of Massachusetts Bay by Europeans.
40664836|Understanding predator-prey dynamics requires an understanding of how prey assess predation risk. This study tested the effect of microhabitat, moon stages, and mammalian predator urines (Vulpes vulpes [Red Fox], Mustela vison [Mink], and Procyon lotor [Raccoon]) on the degree of predation risk perceived by Peromyscus leucopus (White-footed Mouse). Giving-up densities from artificial food patches were used to quantify perceived predation risk. White-footed Mice exhibited a strong preference for cover microhabitat and for the new moon stage. However, the mice did not significantly alter their foraging behavior in response to the predator urines compared to a water control. Additionally, mice foraged less on colder nights. The results suggest that mammalian predator urines may not provide reliable information on actual predation risk for the White-footed Mice and that the mice extensively use indirect cues to assess predation risk.
41495843|We characterized the landscape-level habitat use of Megascops asio (Eastern Screech Owl) in a suburban/urban region of New York and Connecticut using citizenscience methodologies and GIS-based land-use information. Volunteers sampled their properties using call-playback surveys in the summers of 2009 and 2010. We modeled detection and occupancy as functions of distance to forest and two coarse measures of development. AIC c -supported models were validated with an independent dataset collected by trained professionals. Validated models indicated a negative association between occupancy and percent forest cover or, similarly, a positive association with percent impervious cover. When compared against the systematic dataset, models that used forest cover as a predictor had the highest accuracy (kappa = 0.73 0.18) in predicting the occupancy observations in the systematic survey. After accounting for detection, both dataseis support similar owl-habitat patterns of predicting occupancy in developed areas compared to highly rural. While there is likely a minimum amount of forest cover and/or maximum level of urbanization that Screech Owls can tolerate, such limits appear to be beyond the ranges sampled in this study. Future research that seeks to determine this development limit should focus on very urbanized areas. The high accuracy of the citizen-science models in predicting the systematic dataset indicates that volunteer-based efforts can provide reliable data for wildlife studies.
10.2307/3858554|The nesting behavior of >300 females of Oxybelus bipunctatus was studied for 15 straight weeks in a sandpit in central New York during late spring-summer 1985. Cool and rainy weather in late spring induced moldy conditions in the cells that caused much larval mortality. Successive generations of wasps emerged in the field and laboratory every four to six weeks. Cells were always excavated in moderately damp sand. Cell depth varied inversely with soil moisture as tied to the amount of rainfall. Female cocoons were larger and heavier than male cocoons, but they did not occupy deeper or shallower cells. One-celled nests were predominant in this species. The number of prey per cell was rather uniform throughout the nesting season despite much variation in the prey fly families. Individual and aggregate prey weight per cell decreased slightly through the summer. Male Cyclorrapha were preyed upon more than any other taxon.
25177142|Dreissena polymorpha (Zebra Mussel) is capable of attachment to a wide range of natural and man-made materials, but individuals tend to attach to hard, solid substrates. The effects of mesh substrates on Zebra Mussel attachment has not been studied. This study examined the attachment of adult Zebra Mussels to mesh substrates. Zebra Mussels &gt;5 mm shell length were placed on trays constructed of mesh of different hole size and material, and a hard substrate (PVC) control. Their attachment choice was recorded after a 14-d period. The results indicated that Zebra Mussels do not tend to attach directly to mesh, and instead will move towards the closest hard substrate, usually another mussel. There was no significant difference between numbers of mussels attached to different mesh material types and mesh pore sizes. This study furthers our understanding of Zebra Mussel attachment and their preferences when attaching to substrata and has implications for fisheries biologists, aquarists, and others who use nets, mesh, or screens in fresh water.
40664849|We provide positive documentation of multiple litters in a single year born to an individual Glaucomys sabrinus (Northern Flying Squirrel) residing in southern Ontario, Canada. The first litter, consisting of four young, was observed on May 18, 2003. The second litter, consisting of five young, was observed 15 weeks later on September 2, 2003. The individual female, identified by a unique ear-tag, established natal nests in different nearby nest boxes. Our finding suggests the Northern Flying Squirrel possesses greater population growth potential than previously thought.
3858331|We investigated the division of parental care to nestlings in Melospiza melodia melodia (an eastern subspecies of Song Sparrow) by examining parental provisioning rates (number of trips/nestling/h) over two consecutive broods. Song Sparrows are a territorial, socially monogamous passerine with pairs raising up to three broods together over the breeding season. We obtained provisioning rate data for nine pairs over a total of 12 broods (7 first broods, 5 second broods) on at least some of days (stages) 2-3, 5-6, and 8-9 of the nestling period. Of these, we obtained provisioning data over all three nestling stages for six different pairs (five first broods, one second brood). Males and females provisioned young at similar rates throughout the nestling period. Provisioning rates did not differ significantly between first and second broods, but increased significantly as the nestlings aged, reflecting the increased offspring feeding demands. Offspring provisioning does appear to be truly biparental in this eastern subspecies of Song Sparrow.
4130742|Fourteen islands within the Boston Harbor Islands national park area were surveyed for Lepidoptera, Odonata, and tiger beetles (Coleoptera: Carabidae: Cicindelinae) on 67 nights during 2001 and 2002 as part of a five-year inventory of the natural resources of the park. A total of 394 macrolepidopteran species and 166 microlepidopteran species were documented nocturnally, and 51 species of butterflies, 10 of odonates, and 1 tiger beetle were observed during the daytime. Two moths listed in the Massachusetts Endangered Species Act were documented: Spartiniphaga inops (Grote) (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae: Amphipyrinae) and Abagrotis nefascia (J. B. Smith) (Noctuidae: Noctuinae). S. inops is resident on Worlds End, and A. nefascia on Lovells Island. Although two grassland-affiliated genera, Apamea Ochsenheimer (Noctuidae: Amphipyrinae) and Leucania Ochsenheimer (Noctuidae: Hadeninae), were well represented (13 and 8 species, respectively), the total number of macrolepidopteran species was low given the sampling effort and variety of habitats surveyed. Ambient light from Boston and surrounding cites as well as the high percentage of non-native vegetation on many of the islands are two possible factors, in addition to island biogeographic effects, resulting in reduced diversity.
3858422|Effects of the non-indigenous shrub Rhamnus frangula L. (glossy buckthorn) on tree recruitment, herb cover, forest floor plant species richness, and R. frangula recruitment were tested in two southeastern New Hampshire Pinus forests using a randomized complete-block field experiment. The treatment, applied in January of 2000, was the presence of well-established R. frangula populations with three levels: R. frangula absent prior to experiment ("uninvaded"), > 90% R. frangula cover ("Rhamnus present"), and removal of > 90% R. frangula cover ("Rhamnus removed"). After 2 years of measurements, Rhamnus present had significantly lower first-year native tree seedling density than Rhamnus removed and uninvaded plots (0.11, 0.40, and 0.40 seedlings/m<sup>2</sup> respectively). First-year native tree seedling density in the Rhamnus removed and uninvaded treatments were similar. Neither percent herb cover nor plant species richness were significantly affected by the removal of R. frangula in the two years following treatment. We believe these results indicate that the presence of dense R. frangula inhibits the establishment of tree seedlings. Rhamnus removed plots sampled one year after removal had five-fold greater first-year R. frangula seedling density than the other treatments. However, after two years first-year R. frangula seedling density was similarly low in all treatments (< 0.5 R. frangula seedlings/m<sup>2</sup>). Control efforts for R. frangula may need to focus on conspecific seedling emergence for at least two years following initial control.
10.2307/3858517|Contemporary conventional wisdom holds that fishery management in the US has not conserved many of our fishery resources. Many observers cite the New England groundfish fishery as a clear case of mismanagement that has resulted in over exploitation. We present evidence that management institutions have failed to improve economic performance and conserve resources in New England fisheries. In our view, the prospects for successful management are not good unless some fundamental changes are made. We identify two major obstacles to effective conservation and management and conclude with recommendations for reforming our fishery management institutions.
10.2307/3858560|In 1996, we measured the abundance and distribution of two of the six rare plant species growing within an endangered species "hot spot" in the Ninigret National Wildlife Refuge in southern Rhode Island. Mean densities and total population estimates of Aletris farinosa (18.0 plants/m<sup>2</sup>; 41,400 individuals) and Platanthera ciliaris (10.7 plants/m<sup>2</sup>; 24,610 individuals) were extremely high within the 2300 m<sup>2</sup> core of the "hot spot," yet fewer than 40 stems of both species combined were found outside the core. Data on soil moisture, organic matter, and texture, along with abundance of Drosera, lichens, mosses, and unvegetated ground provided insights into the distribution of A. farinosa and P. ciliaris. The fact that there appear to be more individuals of P. ciliaris at this single location than in all of the rest of New England underscores the importance of this site.
10.2307/3858473|The Richibucto Estuary, located in the southern Gulf of St. Lawrence, is rearing habitat for a population of white perch (Morone americana), as well as for young-of-the-year striped bass (M. saxatilis) which immigrate from the nearby Miramichi Estuary. In this study we compared the diet of white perch caught in the Richibucto Estuary to a previously published account of the diet of young-of-the-year striped bass in the Miramichi Estuary. One hundred and fifteen white perch of 26-168 mm total length (TL) were collected from the Richibucto Estuary between 25 June and 10 October 1998 by onshore beach seining at 10 sites. Eighty-nine percent of their stomachs contained food. Sand shrimp (Crangon septemspinosa) were found in 69-79% of stomachs and constituted at least 80% of total dietary weight for white perch = 50 mm TL. Copepods (cyclopoids and the large calanoid Eurytemora sp.) constituted almost all of the diet of small white perch (<50 mm TL) found in low salinity but in higher salinities (11-20) mysids and sand shrimp were also important components of the diet. Polychaete worms and amphipods (Gammarus sp.) were minor constituents of the diet of both size categories of white perch. The diet of young-of-the-year white perch in the Richibucto Estuary was found to be similar to that of young-of-the-year striped bass studied previously in the Miramichi Estuary.
41495810|Serpentine endemics and other soil-restricted taxa may be presumed to face extraordinarily high risk from climate change because their narrow edaphic niches limit their possibilities to adapt through migration. However, their distinctive life-history traits and their competitive relationships with faster-growing soil generalists may complicate this picture and produce unexpected outcomes. Here we propose a conceptual framework for how serpentine endemics will fare under climate change, together with three potential tests of its predictions. We believe climate change should be embraced by serpentine plant ecologists as a critical area for greater study.
10.2307/3858518|How do the arcane decisions of fishery management affect peoples' lives? How do the deeply ingrained traditions of fishing, fishermen, and fishing communities influence the outcome of management decisions? How much does the adaptive behavior of fishermen influence the effectiveness of fishery management? Fishery management errs in attempting to substitute technical analysis for an understanding of the fishing culture. This paper is a narrative that contrasts the unfulfilled promise of an exclusive fishing zone for American fishermen with New England's contemporary experience.
10.2307/3858396|In order to better illuminate the genotoxic effects of a "complex mixture" of anthropogenic chemical toxins, we have employed the comet assay to measure the level of genotoxicity induced in a sentinel animal species, Micropterus dolomieu. Our analysis reveals a significant level of genetic damage in Androscoggin River smallmouth bass that increases in a downstream gradient in parallel with toxic equivalent concentrations. Individual concentrations of recognized, anthropogenic chemical toxins in Androscoggin River fish tissues are measured on an annual basis as part of a State monitoring program. Subsequent fish consumption and river use advisories are issued based, in part, on these assessments.
41495813|Most plants that hyperaccumulate metals are restricted to soils with elevated concentrations of those metals. Recent reports have suggested that some Phytolacca species in China can hyperaccumulate manganese (Mn). Phytolacca americana L. (Pokeweed) is a ubiquitous weed of roadsides and waste areas in its native range in the southeastern United States, and has no known association with high-Mn soils. We investigated whether Mn hyperaccumulation also occurs among such plants. Field-collected samples contained approximately 2000 g Mn g dry weight, whereas other species from the same site ranged from 50 to 450 g g. Seedlings of P. americana were transplanted to the laboratory and grown in nutrient solutions ranging up to 8 mM Mn. After three weeks, Mn concentration in leaves exceeded 32,000 g/g or 3.2%. This result suggests that P. americana possesses a latent physiological ability to hyperaccumulate Mn, even if this trait is rarely, if ever, expressed within its native range.
3858336|Unaltered salt marsh pools in southern New Jersey were sampled during the summer over a number of years, with a variety of techniques, to compare fish species and size composition relative to sampling gear type and to enhance our understanding of marsh pool fishes. These pools were dominated by a few species (Fundulus heteroclitus, Cyprinodon variegatus, Menidia beryllina, Lucania parva, and M. menidia made up 98.3% of all fish [n = 33,731] collected). However, species composition clearly varied with sampling technique, with some species common in multiple gears, e.g., F. heteroclitus in quatrefoil traps (38.6% of total number) and wire mesh traps (35.5%), and C. variegatus collected in quatrefoil traps (47.6%) and mini-seine (30.9%). Other species were most abundant in selected gears, e.g., M. beryllina (83.8%), L. parva (72.6%), and M. menidia (99.6%) in quatrefoil traps. Size composition, which included young-of-the-year and adults for most species, varied with sampling technique and species as well. In all of the above, we cannot rule out the possibility that annual variation influenced species composition and abundance; however, given the stability of these measures in other informal observations, we are convinced that most of the variation is due to sampling technique. Continued studies are relevant because marsh pools have been eliminated by a variety of practices, but are also being created as the result of some mosquito-control techniques and for restoration purposes.
4130726|Alexander von Humboldt paid a short visit to the United States at the end of his famous travels in the New World. In Philadelphia, he met the leading scientists of the country. More importantly, President Jefferson invited him to Washington where he supplied the government with the latest statistical and geographical facts about New Spain (Mexico). Jefferson appreciated Humboldt's scientific achievements; Humboldt found Jefferson's "Notes on Virginia" a model of how to describe a region. Between Humboldt and Albert Gallatin, the Swiss-born Secretary of the Treasury, a lasting friendship developed based on common interests, e.g., in monetary questions. Humboldt's interests with regard to the U.S. were centered around three topics: the spread of slavery and its consequences in terms of the maintenance of the Union; the mining of gold as compared with Russia; the possibilities of building a canal between the Atlantic and Pacific oceans. The debate over the slave question caused Humboldt to increase his criticism of American politics. He used his influence in Prussia to have a law passed that prohibited the ownership of slaves, thereby signaling his opposition to slavery to American leaders. In addition, Humboldt envisioned the improvement of international relations through free trade, and therefore favored projects such as an inter-oceanic canal. He never stopped admiring the achievements of the new nation in the sciences. That is why he liked to call himself "half an American."
10.2307/3858572|We initiated an inventory and a field test of a protocol that could be used for monitoring marsh birds at the Cape Cod National Seashore in eastern Massachusetts during 1999 and 2000, as part of a more comprehensive national effort. Using cassette tapes during call broadcast surveys, we visited a total of 78 survey points at freshwater, brackish, and salt marsh sites three times on the ground or in canoes during the breeding season (May-June), fall migration (September to November), and twice during winter (December-January). Observer bias on our marsh bird surveys appeared negligible. Although both auditory and visual detection of most species was low (mean < 0.3 birds per replicate-survey point), we confirmed the presence of seven marsh species, including American Bittern (Botaurus lentiginosus), Least Bittern (Ixobrychus exilis), American Coot (Fulica americana), King Rail (Rallus elegans), Piedbilled Grebe (Podilymbus podiceps), Sora (Porzana carolina), and Virginia Rail (Rallus limicola). We suspected breeding of Least Bitterns and Soras at Great Pond in Provincetown, and for Virginia Rails at Hatches Harbor, Provincetown. The most frequently detected species were Soras, Pied-billed Grebes, and Virginia Rails. We recommend using call broadcast surveys for these cryptic species to enhance their probabilities of detection.
10.2307/3858588|We present data on dormancy-breaking requirements and germination rates of the northern pitcher plant, Sarracenia purpurea var. terrae-novae de la Pylaie. Upon dispersal from the parent plant, embryos are only partially developed. Seeds require a prolonged moist chilling period for after-ripening and maturation of the embryo but scarification prior to stratification is not required for germination. Exposure to light stimulates germination. Eighty-five percent of seeds moist chilled for 6 weeks germinated when placed into ambient sunlight, as compared with only 53% of seeds moist chilled for 4 weeks and then placed in ambient sunlight. Fewer than 10% of seeds germinated when placed in darkness following moist chilling. Germination rate in the light was more rapid among seeds stratified for 6 weeks than those moist chilled for 4 weeks. These data suggest that S. purpurea seeds are dispersed in a state of morphological dormancy.
40959919|We used hair tubes to examine the winter activity of small mammals in relation to coarse woody debris and snow cover in a deciduous forest woodlot in western New York State during the winters of 2006 and 2007. Hairs trapped on sticky tapes in baited hair tubes were used to identify mammal species. During the winter of 2006, a higher proportion of baits was removed from hair tubes sites 2 m away from logs, relative to hair tubes adjacent to logs, while significantly more baits were removed from hair tubes adjacent to logs in 2007. A significantly greater proportion of baits was removed from log and open sites combined in 2006 than in 2007. However, in 2007, a higher proportion of hair tubes with baits removed also had mammal hairs on their tapes. The higher proportion of baits removed from hair tubes in 2006, and the increased proportion of baits removed from sites near logs in 2007, was most likely due to reduced snow cover in 2006. Hair tubes offer several advantages relative to live traps in the study of winter small-mammal activity. They are simple to use, do not require handling animals, eliminate trap-related mortality, and can be used at any spatial scale, including the landscape level. Finally, they employ low-cost materials, and can be adapted to a range of conditions and target species.
41429424|The range of Okanagana rimosa (Say's Cicada) in eastern North America appears to be widespread but patchy. We report the first known occurrence of mating by the species in New Jersey. We also report the first known record of the species from the state from a previously unpublished specimen collected in 1942 and deposited in the American Museum of Natural History collection. These two reports spanning 68 years are the only known specimens from New Jersey.
40959927|The populations of many North American forest-breeding songbirds have declined over the past few decades, initiating much research regarding the factors influencing avian use of remaining forests, many of which are highly disturbed and impacted by invasive plants. Our objective was to compare the species richness of breeding birds in riparian forest fragments that contain different amounts of the invasive shrub, Rosa multiflora (Multiflora Rose). We conducted 20 point counts in each of three sites from early June until mid-July of 2008 and 2009, and estimated species richness and relative richness using the program COMDYN4. During 2008, species richness was lower at the site with the most Multiflora Rose. However, the number of species at that site increased by 33% from 2008 to 2009, whereas the number of species in the other two sites remained similar. Consequently, we did not detect differences in species richness among sites during 2009. Despite the increase in species richness at the more heavily invaded site, several common ground-to shrub-nesting species did not occur at that site during either year. Multiflora Rose may reduce the species richness of breeding birds in forest fragments, but additional research coinciding with the control and removal of this invasive shrub will be needed to infer such a relationship.
10.2307/3858673|Nocturnally migrating birds often collide with man-made structures, particularly during inclement weather conditions. This study examines television tower kill data from 1970 to 1999 in western New York and from 1974 to 1992 in Youngstown, Ohio. Television towers were visited regularly during the fall months and any dead birds found around the tower were salvaged. The number of dead birds salvaged varied annually, ranging from a high in 1982 of 4,787 to a low of 6 in 1992 in New York and from 1,130 in 1975 to 18 in 1992 in Ohio. At both locations, the number of salvaged birds significantly decreased during the course of the study, and this decline was documented for each of the three television towers in New York. Several explanations may account for the variation in the rate of mortality in recent years, including an overall decrease in migratory bird populations, a potential change in patterns of wind direction and cloud cover, an increase in predation around the tower sites, and/or a change in migration patterns.
10.2307/3858610|Past maps of Maine forest vegetation regions display changing perceptions of economically important resources, changing scientific knowledge, and the author's purpose in preparing them. Recent maps divide Maine into as many as 15 biophysical regions (McMahon 1993), or as few as one ecoregion (Braun 1972). A new map based on satellite imagery displays pixels indicating different forest types, dispensing with regional boundaries. This map may provide the most accurate view of Maine's complex forest vegetation.
10.2307/3858353|Understory vegetation of 17 clearcuts 1 to 26 years old and three mature secondary forests in Garrett County, Maryland was sampled during the summer to investigate species composition and abundance during forest regeneration. Canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) was used to determine which measured environmental variables (EVs) were significantly related to species distributions among the sites and to characterize species abundances along these environmental gradients. Stand age and site moisture were the most important EVs related to species distributions. Biplots of EV vectors and species scores indicated early successional and shade-associated species (e.g. Rubus spp. and Arisaema triphyllum, respectively) that were most abundant in recent clearcuts (<10 yr old) and shade-associated species that were most abundant in older clearcuts and mature stands. Early successional species declined or disappeared as regenerating tree canopies started to close. Species distributions were significantly related to site moisture despite the broad range of light availability associated with differences in stand age and overstory basal area among the study sites.
3858421|Invasive exotic plants have been identified as one of the major threats to ecosystem function and biodiversity. This study examined the distribution and abundance (cover and frequency) of invasive plants in natural habitats of the Quinebaug Highlands forest block (13,760 ha) of northern Connecticut and southern Massachusetts in relation to current and historical land use and site conditions. Multiple regression and GIS analyses were used to identify areas of high infestation and factors most useful in predicting invasions. Celastrus orbiculatus, Rosa multiflora, and Berberis thunbergii were the most frequent invasives. Past land use was the strongest predictor of invasive cover (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.219) and richness (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.303; p < 0.001 both regressions). Current land development and physical soil characteristics were also strongly correlated. These results add to our understanding of factors promoting plant invasions. Because invasive species control in natural areas is time- and resource-intensive, this information may enhance conservation efforts by increasing efficiency in predicting and managing biological invasions.
41495846|We treated the invasive wetland grass, Phragmites australis (Common Reed), with herbicide in 99 (total of 14 ha) interdunal wetland swales of Sandy Neck barrier beach on Cape Cod, MA from 2002-2008. The herbicide applications have significantly reduced the number oiPhragmites stems within invaded swales, with parallel reductions in personnel and chemical costs of the control program. After seven years of treatment, we have achieved substantial containment and suppression oiPhragmites, but the plant persists in all but a few of the treated swales. Whether eradication or near-eradication can be ultimately achieved remains uncertain.
41429421|Spiza americana (Dickcissel) colonized a restored Conservation Reserve Program grassland in Maryland during the second year of restoration and has continued to return in subsequent years. In 2000-2010, we banded 125 adult and hatch-year birds; during this period the population ranged annually from one to 16 individuals. Twenty-one percent of adult male Dickcissels (n = 38) returned in a subsequent nesting season, 30% of adult females (n = 20) returned, and 1.7% (n = 67) of the banded hatch-year individuals returned. A female Dickcissel returned to these grasslands after being banded as a nestling the previous year; this bird is the first nestling Dickcissel ever to be re-sighted in a subsequent year across this species range. This same female Dickcissel nested an average of 196.5 m (range = 84-297 m) from her natal site over four breeding seasons, and now holds the longevity record (4 yrs, 11 months) for the species; she also became the first known female Dickcissel to return to a breeding site in Maryland. At our study site, whether adult Dickcissels returned the following summer was not related to their nesting experience (success or failure) the previous year. However, males that were unsuccessful in procuring mates often did not return the following year, and females returned at a greater rate than males.
4131009|In 2002, an estimated 377 pairs of Plegadis falcinellus (Glossy Ibis) nested in four mixed-species colonies in Rhode Island, with 66% of nests on Rose Island. Local observations suggest that farmland may provide important foraging habitat for Glossy Ibis in southern New England. We systematically surveyed 13 salt marshes within 20 km and 11 farms within 10 km of Rose Island during the breeding season (15 May-23 July) in 2002 to determine the importance of salt marshes and farmland to foraging Glossy Ibis. Foraging ibis were irregularly detected at 6 of 13 salt marshes. Ibis were more likely to be observed foraging at farms, with an average of 1 to 18 birds seen at 10 of 11 farms. Linear models of habitat characteristics predicting the mean number of foraging ibis observed at each farm were created a priori and evaluated using Akaike's Information Criteria. Farms with a high density of cows present (> 10 cows per ha) and farms that contained streams were especially important, but foraging ibis used many agricultural habitat types including cultivated grass, wet areas, uncut meadows, and recently mowed hayfields. This study clearly shows that active farms are beneficial to breeding Glossy Ibis in Rhode Island and that efforts to preserve such farms will help to sustain the ibis population in the region.
10.2307/3858573|The larger-bodied burying beetle, Nicrophorus orbicollis, competes with the smaller N. defodiens for valued, protein-rich, carrion resources. We tested four hypotheses of this competitive relationship. We found support for the hypotheses that N. defodiens locates fresh carcasses more quickly than N. orbicollis and that carcasses placed under the leaf litter are more difficult for Nicrophorus to locate than carcasses placed above the leaf litter. By shifting the photocycle of N. defodiens we were able to manipulate this normally crepuscular species into beginning its active period 3 h later, during the active period of the nocturnal N. orbicollis. This clock-shift eliminates the 3 h head start that N. defodiens typically experiences in the field. We did not find support for the hypothesis that clock-shifted N. defodiens would suffer in competition compared to non-clock-shifted beetles. We did find support for the hypothesis that the presence of N. defodiens on a carcass provides clues to searching N. orbicollis. We suggest that the presence of efficient carrion searchers such as N. defodiens may significantly increase the numbers and success of the Nicrophorus guild.
41810145|Rhamnus cathartica (Common Buckthorn) is a well-established invasive species in North America. We searched early records of the species to help refine this species' history in North America. This note presents strong evidence of Common Buckthorn's entry to North America prior to the 19 th century and suggests it was originally imported for medicinal, not ornamental, purposes. We then briefly discuss aspects of its expansion across North America to about the mid-19 th century, when it was promoted as a hedge-forming plant. Such information is useful for reconstructing Common Buckthorn's invasion history (including reasons for its success), as well as for understanding human-invasive species interactions in general.
41495845|Based upon studies between 2001 and 2010 and the continued presence of adult shrimp including gravid females, Palaemon macrodactylus (Oriental Shrimp) is established in the estuarine waters of New York City. In summer 2010, we sampled a 1000-m area of the East River and found that P. macrodactylus represented 4.3% of the total shrimp population, and 15.2% of the Palaemonidae (84.8% consisted of the native species Palaemonetes vulgaris [Common Grass Shrimp]). In 2001/2002, P. macrodactylus comprised 4.2% of all palaemonids, suggesting an increase in the past decade of non-native relative to native palaemonids. While not yet appearing to be "invasive" based upon population size, the feeding habits and reproductive biology of P. macrodactylus suggest that future interactions with native shrimp may occur. A key to regional shrimp is presented.
3858682|We investigated the potential role of urban parks and other urban forest remnants in conservation of biodiversity by examining woodpecker occurrence in 6 urban parks in Hartford, CT, and at a more rural site. As primary cavity excavators, woodpeckers are indicators of a much broader suite of species that use cavities and deadwood resources for nesting, feeding, and roosting. The number of woodpecker species present in each park was correlated with total park area but not total wooded area, suggesting that some patches of wooded area in parks may be too small to support some species. Park area, basal area, and the number of trees  50% dead accounted for over 90% of the variation in woodpecker densities in the parks.
10.2307/3858285| A review of literature, museum specimens, and records from four recent National Marine Fisheries Service deepwater surveys allows us to present an annotated list of 591 species in 132 families that live below 200 meters in the area between the Scotian Shelf and the southern New England Shelf south to about 38N. Three orders (Stomiiformes, Perciformes, and Myctophiformes) of the 24 in the area account for 41% of the species. New area records for 111 species are included; the majority (83%) represent extensions from the south, with only 17% from the north and east. Although the deep-sea ichthyofauna off eastern North America is quite well known, it is noted that 96 new species have been described since 1950 and 34 since 1975. 
10.2307/3858346|Natural resource managers and researchers are often faced with the issue of how to subdivide large landscapes into smaller, homogeneous units for analytical or administrative purposes. We used data in a Geographic Information System and cluster analyses to divide Maine into broad-scale regions based on elevation, slope, two measures of species richness, and three weather variables. The locations and numbers of these biophysical regions were affected by variable selection, cell size (and sampling), and euclidean distances used to terminate clustering. We present rationales, largely based on our intended uses of these regions, for selecting the seven variables, a cell size (21.44 km<sup>2</sup>), and a euclidian cut-off (1.56). Thirteen biophysical regions, in fourteen units, were delineated and characterized; the regions were hierarchically arranged in five levels. Five of the seven variables used in the final clustering were abiotic versus biotic, suggesting that regions relate to potential as well as current ecological conditions. The euclidian distances defining individual regions can be used to quantify the biophysical distinctness of each region (and grid-cell).
25177072|Impervious surface area (ISA) has emerged as a key indicator to explain and predict ecosystem health in relationship to watershed development. In this study, we extracted the information of ISA for the state of Rhode Island using 1-m spatial resolution true-color digital orthophotography data. We employed an object-oriented algorithm of multiple-agent segmentation and classification (MASC) that we developed for ISA information extraction. The result indicates that, as of 2004, 10% of the state land has been covered by ISA. The major population centers and historical cities, such as Providence, Woonsocket, and Newport, have ISA over 30%. The heavily settled suburban communities have ISA between 10 and 30%. Only 17 out of 39 towns in the state have less than 10% ISA. The average ISA for the coastal towns is 14%. Because most stream-quality indicators are predicted to decline when watershed ISA exceeds 10%, the results from this study serve as an alarming indicator for managing the state's watershed and coastal ecosystems. The tested MASC model could be extended to coastal Massachusetts and Connecticut to provide a more comprehensive indication of the impacts of human-induced land-cover change on southern New England's coast.
3858630|American ginseng (Panax quinquefolius L.) is a rare to uncommon CITES Appendix II-listed perennial plant species that is harvested from the wild to supply the herbal trade. Harvest seasons for American ginseng are intended to coincide with berry ripening in the species. However, geographic patterns of harvest seasons among states suggest they may not be tied to ripening phenology. In this study, we experimentally established the relationship between berry color and subsequent seed germination 1.5 years later in a natural population. We then monitored berry ripening August 15, September 1, and September 15 in 31 populations across much of ginseng's natural range. We found no biological basis for state-to-state differences in harvest seasons, and clear evidence that in some states the harvest season is set too early to ensure full berry ripening. Variation among years was examined in a subset of populations: Results from that analysis do not alter the conclusion that improvement in ginseng management could be achieved by establishing biologically based harvest seasons.
41429229|In New York, Bonasa umbellus (Ruffed Grouse) abundance has declined since the 1960s, presumably due to forest maturation. Wildlife managers expressed concern that hunting may contribute to the population decline as habitat quality decreases. We monitored fall-winter survival of 169 radio-marked Ruffed Grouse at 2 study areas in New York differing in forest age and composition. Fewer than 11% of radio-marked birds were harvested, and seasonal survival was similar at the 2 study areas in both study years (0.38 and 0.51, 2007-2008; 0.48 and 0.48, 2008-2009). Prdation, particularly by raptors, was the largest source of mortality, but locations of prdation events were not associated with forest age or configuration within 300 m. We found no evidence to support a reduction in harvest limits, although our harvest estimates may have been biased low.
25177062|Orconectes rusticus (rusty crayfish) has spread from its original range throughout much of northeastern North America. Invading rusty crayfish can completely replace native crayfish and impact other parts of the community through changes in consumption, disturbance, and other effects. Our main objectives were to document rusty crayfish distribution in streams of the upper Susquehanna River watershed, NY, and to determine the extent of changes in crayfish community composition since the last major survey. We sampled streams during 1999-2005 to describe the current distribution of crayfish species and to document short-term temporal changes. To determine long-term changes in species composition and distribution, we compared our data to museum specimen collection records. We found significant changes in the crayfish community; our surveys found 2 species not previously reported from the upper Susquehanna River watershed and failed to find 2 species previously reported. We also found that rusty crayfish are widespread in the watershed and continues to expand, while the ranges of native congeners are retracting.
41495816|Soils on ultramafic rocks are usually colonized by plant species and communities adapted to high heavy-metal content and low Ca/Mg ratio. However, the effects of metal speciation on microbial activity and arthropodal communities have scarcely been studied, especially under coniferous forests in boreal or subalpine areas. Six typical subalpine soils, in the ophiolitic area of Mont Avie Natural Park, located in the Western Italian Alps, were studied in order to verify the chemical speciation of Ni, Co, Mn, and Cr and their effects on soil biological properties and microbial activity. Five soils, developed from till composed of mafic and ultramafic materials, showed strong signs of podzolization, while the sixth was polluted by mine spoil. All the samples had high metal content, high acidity, and high metal mobility and bioavailability. These edaphic properties deeply influenced both arthropodal communities and microbial activity, all of which were strictly correlated with parent material and bioavailable Ni, Co, and Mn.
43288174|The Gulf of Maine has undergone dramatic physiographic and oceanographie changes over the last several millenia resulting in some unusual biogeographic consequences. One is that there are pockets of Virginian species, including Crassostra virginica (Eastern Oyster), that survive in isolated warm water pockets, usually at the heads of estuaries. These small and vulnerable populations need documentation, protection, and restoration in order to preserve their genetic characteristics and ecological services. In this contribution, we describe the circumstances whereby tidal restoration made available 2.5 linear km of new habitat area to the relict oyster population of the Marsh River, ME, the northernmost documented native oyster population in the United States. Oysters recruited to the new habitat quickly, demonstrating the restoration potential of isolated, relict populations. The resultant larger population size and areal extent should provide increased stability and survivability of the oyster and its associated community. These observations have implications for both the restoration potential of relict oyster populations and the consequences of climate change.
4130985| Falcipennis canadensis (Spruce Grouse) are a habitat specialist of coniferous forest in North America and typically have large home ranges ( 25 ha, range = 22-75 ha). Although this species is sensitive to logging, few studies report abundance and population trends in relation to habitat loss and fragmentation. In early May of 1997 to 1999, we surveyed Spruce Grouse in 21 riparian and 27 upland residual forest strips (width = 51-132 m) located within six clear-cut landscapes
10.2307/3858485|A study was performed on a population of Harris' checkerspot butterfly, Charidryas harrisii (Nymphalidae) in Princeton, Massachusetts, USA, to determine which characteristics of its host plant, flat-topped white aster (Aster umbellatus Asteraceae) a female may use to determine oviposition site. Several physical parameters of an aster population were recorded when females were laying eggs. Later, as larvae were appearing, the plants selected as oviposition sites were measured in a similar fashion. Females chose plants that were significantly taller, had more leaves, thicker stems, and were more "bushy" than the population average. Contrary to our expectations, the butterflies chose plants with fewer conspecifics than the population average. This research suggests management possibilities for the host plant population of this butterfly species.
40664885|A population of Channa argus (Northern Snakehead) has been established in the Potomac River catchment, VA and MD, for approximately ten years, and is increasing rapidly in abundance. Little is known about life-history strategies of this species in North American environments. We report the first discovery of a Northern Snakehead nest in North America and discuss some of its nesting habits.Adult Northern Snakeheads constructed a circular nest in a patch of dense Hydrilla verticillata (Hydrilla) by clipping stems, thus creating a canopy of floating plants.They laid eggs atop floating stems, and larvae hatched within three days. Both male and female parents were observed guarding the eggs and fry in the nest. Parents also continuously guarded the school of fry as they dispersed from the nest. Prolonged schooling behavior after leaving the nest accompanied parental guarding for up to several weeks. Floating nests and parental care likely increase reproductive success in a tidally influenced ecosystem with abundant predators. These factors contribute to the ability of Northern Snakehead to persist and spread in North America. Based on our findings, nests will likely be located in areas of the Potomac River that are low to no flow, moderately shallow, and highly vegetated.
10.2307/3858699|We studied wintering populations of Mallards (Anas platyrhynchos Linnaeus) and American Black Ducks (A. rubripes Brewster) in urban parks in the industrial area of Cape Breton Island, Nova Scotia during December 1992 and January 1993 and during February and March, 1999-2002. Wintering flocks of Mallards and American Black Ducks have been fed in these parks for more than 30 years. We found that the numbers of American Black Ducks and Mallards have remained relatively stable for the last four years. No evidence exists that the population of Mallards was increasing nor that the population of American Black Ducks was decreasing. Numbers of ducks have fluctuated yearly, but numbers of these species have fluctuated synchronously. We conclude that numbers of American Black Ducks are not declining and are not being replaced by Mallards on Cape Breton Island. Furthermore, no evidence exists of genetic swamping because the proportion of hybrids in the local wintering population did not change.
25177066|This study examines the ecology of Rangifer tarandus caribou (woodland caribou) in the Naosap range in west-central Manitoba, Canada. This population is considered to be of high conservation concern because of potential resource-development impacts; therefore, baseline data are required to guide and evaluate the management of this species in this area. Radio-telemetry data were collected every two weeks from February 1998 to April 2001 and used in combination with forest-inventory data to evaluate habitat selection, site fidelity, movement, and grouping patterns. In both summer and winter, selected habitats were mature upland spruce and pine forests, as well as treed muskeg. Hardwood forests were least selected at all scales. Mature coniferous forest was preferred over immature coniferous forests in a pair-wise comparison in winter, but not in summer. Home-range sizes were within expected ranges of variation. Animals used distinct areas in summer and winter, showing broad fidelity to seasonal ranges. However, small shifts in the core areas were observed, particularly in winter. Movement rates and grouping behavior were typical of other caribou. Habitats used in winter were common in the study area, but the ability of the animals to disperse to alternate winter areas is not known. Management efforts could focus on protecting known calving and winter-use areas, and regenerating coniferous forests after logging, which is consistent with regional forest-management objectives.
4130725|After nearly one hundred years since Humboldt's return to Europe from the Americas, there is little about the famous traveler and naturalist that has not been written on already. A close scrutiny of his scientific legacy, however, reveals important scientific findings of his travels that had not been fully analysed in the past, namely his contributions to the study of palms and his influence on explorers and naturalists who followed his path in the American tropics. In the following essay, I explore in particular Humboldt's contributions to the knowledge of the peach palm (Bactris gasipaes H.B.K.) and his relationship with the French chemist Jean Batiste Boussingault, who visited Venezuela in 1822-1823.
43287105|Ixodes scapularis (Black-legged Tick) has expanded its range in recent decades. To establish baseline data on the abundance of the Black-legged Tick and Borrelia burgdorferi (the causative agent of Lyme disease) at the edge of a putative range expansion, we collected 1398 ticks from five locations along the Connecticut River in Vermont. Collection locations were approximately evenly distributed between the villages of Ascutney and Guildhall. Relative abundance and distribution by species varied across sites. Black-legged Ticks dominated our collections (n = 1348, 96%), followed by Haemaphysalis leporispalustris (Rabbit Tick; n = 45, 3%), and Dermacentor variabilis (American Dog Tick; n = 5, <1%). Black-legged Tick abundance ranged from 6198 ticks per survey hectare (all life stages combined) at the Thetford site to zero at the Guildhall site. There was little to no overlap of tick species across sites. Phenology of Black-legged Ticks matched published information from other regions of the northeastern USA. Prevalence of B. burgdorferi in adult Black-legged Ticks was 8.9% (n = 112).
10.2307/3858490|A dramatic increase in the interest in the dragonfly and damselfly (Odonata) fauna of New England has led to many new discoveries recently. We document the occurrence of six species of Odonata previously unknown from Massachusetts: furtive forktail (Ischnura prognata), subarctic darner (Aeshna subarctica), taper-tailed darner (Gomphaeschna antilope), incurvate emerald (Somatochlora incurvata), bar-winged skimmer (Libellula axilena), and striped glider (Tramea calverti). Four of these species were unknown from New England prior to 1995. Additionally, we discuss recent records of coppery emerald (Somatochlora georgiana) and variegated meadowhawk (Sympetrum corruptum), two species rarely recorded from New England.
40664848|Ponds in the White Mountains of Grafton and Coos Counties, NH provide some of the highest elevation breeding habitat for amphibian populations in the northeastern United States. Between 2007 and 2009, we conducted field surveys of alpine ponds above 1100 m on the Presidential Range and Franconia Ridge in the White Mountain National Forest. These ponds include the only currently known amphibian breeding sites in tundra-dominated landscapes reported from the eastern United States. Four species of anuran and one species of salamander were detected at elevations ranging from 1180 to 1546 m, with direct evidence of breeding observed at every pond complex. This preliminary study contributes to available baseline data for amphibian populations in alpine and subalpine environments in the northeastern United States. Amphibian populations may be strong indicators of climate change and environmental stressors in alpine ecosystems; these populations appear to warrant long-term monitoring.
10.2307/3858612|Identification of mycelia from the field to the species level is often dependent on the presence of reproductive structures or upon the ability to isolate and study cultures of the organism(s). Some wood decay fungi produce elaborate calcium oxalate crystals which could aid in the identification of fungal mycelium within rotting wood. Decomposing red spruce wood from four sites in northern New England was examined by scanning electron microscopy, and the morphology of the observed crystals was compared to the morphology of the crystals produced in pure culture by fungi isolated and identified from the same pieces of wood. The conclusion was that there is insufficient species specificity in crystal morphology for it, alone, to be used to identify fungi resident in red spruce wood in nature.
27744577|Two new specimens of the rare deep sea eel genus Neocyema were collected in the western North Atlantic in June 2006 and September 2008. Previously the genus was known only from the two type specimens, collected in the South Atlantic in 1971. External morphology and osteology indicate that the new specimens probably belong to the described species Neocyema erythrosoma. Their capture in the North Atlantic provides support for the hypothesis that Neocyema is the adult form of the enigmatic larva Leptocephalus holti.
43287092|Minimal research has been conducted involving Salvelinus fontinalis (Brook Trout) habitat use and dispersal patterns within Adirondack Mountain headwater streams. Hence, fishery managers are left with information gaps regarding the specific habitat conditions characteristic of sustainable Brook Trout populations in Adirondack flowing waters. Through the use of single-pass electrofishing and markrecapture techniques, size-class specific microhabitat use and reach-scale movement patterns for Brook Trout were examined within two northern Adirondack streams. Water depth, water velocity, and substrate-size use were observed to be similar among two Brook Trout size classes. Both size classes exhibited use patterns within deeper slowermoving pool habitats; however, larger Brook Trout were found to be associated with smaller-sized substrates within one of our study sites. These habitat-use patterns were also supported by comparison of stream hydrologie condition, including Froude number. Brook Trout movement patterns were found to be dependent on both size class and season. Smaller-sized trout exhibited increased movement during the spring, whereas larger trout were found to be more mobile and move more frequently during early fall. Lastly, we examined the proportion of Brook Trout moving upstream/downstream and found a greater frequency of smaller Brook Trout moving upstream during late summer.
10.2307/3858451|New provincial records in Canada are provided for Ceratophyllus lari Holland from Ram Island, in the province of Prince Edward Island, and from Cone Island, Ontario, in each case from nests of the Double-crested Cormorant, Phalacrocorax auritus (Lesson). The larva of C. lari was found to be morphologically indistinguishable from those of Ceratophyllus niger C. Fox and Ceratophyllus idius Jordan and Rothschild.
3858640|The popular literature often depicts river otters as extremely playful. However, some researchers have suggested that, contrary to popular belief, the much-noted sliding behavior of river otters is only a form of locomotion, not a form of play. While using remote video cameras to monitor a population of river otters reintroduced to the Youghiogheny River in southwestern Pennsylvania, we obtained a video of three otters sliding across a snow-covered surface. Collectively, the otters slid 16 times for a total of 53 seconds. Based on established definitions of animal play, our observation supports the popular notion that sliding can be play behavior in wild river otters.
4130732| Starting from Alexander von Humboldt's always ambivalent attitude towards Potsdam, the city which made him an honorary citizen and where he conceived large parts of his "Cosmos," this contribution tries to show, through a broad analysis of Humboldt's early letters and later writings, the complex relation between world image and world travel, between science and cosmopolitanism. Humboldt's innovative concept of science, at the same time transdisciplinary and intercultural, connects in its ethical dimension with ideas of Immanuel Kant, as Kant had presented them in his "Idee zu einer allgemeinen Geschichte in weltbrgerlicher Absicht." In this respect it becomes evident that the evolution of Humboldtian science is not possible without considering his understanding of cosmopolitanism, just as it is not possible to understand the specific kind of cosmopolitics which makes the Prussian scientist, author and intellectual an important connecting link for the actual definition of cosmopolitanism and cosmopolitics. The realization of world-wide communication networks between the most different sciences and scientists should, as the material infrastructure, be the presupposition of a global thinking which can be seen as part of a project of the (European) modernity. The biographical as well as the historical background of Alexander von Humboldt's deliberations should, however, not be forgotten. 
3858378|Family breakup is an important event in the life history of black bears (Ursus americanus Pallas), marking the initial dispersal and home range construction of yearling bears, and perhaps marking the timing of estrus and breeding opportunities for adult females. We monitored 6 black bear family groups with 12 yearlings (6M:6F) to determine the timing of family breakup; we intensely monitored 3 of the family groups to document home range establishment and movements by 5 yearling bears (2M:3F) following separation from their mothers. We calculated date of family breakup using 2 separate techniques as 28 May and 2 June, which occurred before peak dates of estrus. We detected 1 reassociation between a mother and her yearling offspring. Following family breakup, female yearlings (n = 3) remained within or near their mothers' home range while yearling males (n = 2) eventually dispersed. All yearlings (n = 5) shared > 50% of post-breakup home range with their mothers.
10.2307/3858368|There is considerable evidence that the Blackpoll Warbler (Dendroica striata) undertakes a non-stop, transoceanic, fall migration from New England and Atlantic Canada to South America. However, this unique migration strategy is not yet clearly understood. Based on flight range estimates, Blackpoll Warblers must require large amounts of fat for this flight. I captured Blackpoll Warblers during fall migration on Bon Portage Island, a small island off southern Nova Scotia, to determine if Blackpoll Warblers either arrive with, or remain on the island and deposit, the large fat reserves necessary for their migration. Most Blackpoll Warblers did not arrive at Bon Portage with sufficient fat reserves to complete transoceanic migration from Nova Scotia to South America. Furthermore, although young Blackpoll Warblers did show moderate rates of diurnal fat deposition while on Bon Portage, most did not remain long enough to accumulate the necessary fat reserves for transoceanic migration. I conclude then, that Bon Portage Island is not one of the final sites for Blackpoll fat deposition, and I discuss several possible explanations for these results.
41429414|In the temperate deciduous forests of the northeastern United States, the majority of the dominant tree species disperse their seeds during the fall, causing a heterogeneous mixture of seeds to be present at a specific location at one time. Because these seeds vary in size and palatability to small mammals, some seed species, such as Quercus acorns, may alter the risk of removal of neighboring, less preferred species. The presence of a neighboring seed could attract seed predators, elevating the risk that a neighboring seed will be removed (apparent competition), or it could divert the attention of seed predators away from a neighboring seed (apparent mutualism). We evaluated the effects of nearest seed neighbors on the survival of 5 different tree species. Using logistic regression we determined whether the species or abundance of nearest neighbors caused changes in the risk of removal. Contrary to our expectations, we did not find any affect of neighboring seed species on the removal rates of other seeds, indicating that risk of removal of naturally occurring seeds, separated by at least 10 cm, is independent.
4499938|A study of the hibernating bats present in select western Massachusetts hibernacula was initiated during the winter of 2005-2006. During the surveys, five state-threatened Myotis leibii (eastern small-footed bats) were observed within one hibernaculum (Bat's Den Cave). These five individuals were the first eastern small-footed bats observed in Massachusetts since 1999, and represent a new county distribution record (Berkshire County).
27744598|Lythrurus fasciolaris (Scarlet Shiner) and Lythrurus umbratilis (Redfin Shiner) are closely related minnow species usually exhibiting a parapatric distribution in the Ohio River basin; however, areas of sympatry do exist and hybridization has been documented. In Eagle Creek (Kentucky River drainage), a stream capture event is likely responsible for creating the contact zone, providing a unique opportunity to study hybridization. In this paper, we conduct a morphological analysis of nuptial males from six Lythrurus populations in Eagle Creek. Our results show longitudinal variation in morphology. Individuals from downstream areas exhibit a novel phenotype with a robust body and low meristic counts. In contrast, upstream areas contain individuals resembling Redfin Shiner. Overall, 62% of individuals examined in Eagle Creek have the novel phenotype and 27% have the Redfin Shiner phenotype. Local selection pressures and apparent geographical isolation may be fostering the development of a distinct phenotype via introgressive hybridization.
43287094|We examined laboratory host suitability and assessed the distribution and status of Alasmidonta marginata (Elktoe) in Minnesota. Of the 85 fish species tested, glochidia metamorphosed on 27 species in 6 families (Cyprinidae, Catostomidae, Fundulidae, Poeciliidae, Gasterosteidae, and Cottidae). All catostomid species facilitated metamorphosis, and overall, Catostomidae produced more juvenile mussels per fish. This result, in combination with a previous finding of naturally infested fish, suggests that catostomids are an important host for A. marginata in nature. From extensive surveys, we found extant populations of A. marginata in the St. Croix River, Upper Mississippi River, and Minnesota River systems. Alasmidonta marginata is apparently extirpated or its range has decreased in several interior Minnesota watersheds and the Mississippi River main stem. Barrier waterfalls and habitat degradation have influenced A. marginata's historic and recent distribution more so than the range of its hosts. Further study of naturally occurring and laboratory hosts for A. marginata and other Alasmidonta species is needed in order to improve conservation efforts and elucidate phylogenetic relationships for this group of mussels.
43287119|This investigation compared color and artificial container size as attractants for the gravid female Aedes triseriatus (Eastern Tree-hole Mosquito) oviposition site selection. Three colors (white, green, and black) were investigated in combination with two container sizes (3672 ml and 12,000 ml). Presence of mosquito larvae was used to determine percent occupancy of containers. Black containers were selected in 70% of trials, compared to 63% for green containers and 41% for white containers. Large containers were selected more frequently (72% of trials) than small containers (44% of trials). Results suggest that container size may serve as an important selective cue for A. triseriatus and may take precedence over color when gravid female mosquitoes are given the choice. Our results provide further insight into the complexity of cues that influence mosquito oviposition behavior.
4499891|Presence and frequency of epiphytic macrolichens were measured along an air-quality gradient in Halifax City, NS, Canada. Species frequency plots over distance and multidimensional scaling (MDS) suggested lichen-community changes consistent with expected air-quality changes. A provisional list of air-quality indicators was selected based on: 1) demonstrated variation along the air-quality gradient, 2) frequency across the province, 3) literature values of air-quality sensitivity, and 4) ease of field identification. Indicators were placed in one of three classes: 1) pollution tolerant, 2) intermediate pollution tolerance, and 3) pollution sensitive. MDS analysis suggests an elevation gradient in Nova Scotia and this should be investigated with a further study.
3858290|European settlement of New England initiated a novel disturbance regime that was prolonged, intensifying through time, and spatially widespread. By the mid-20th century, human commercial and industrial activities had brought about the ecological collapse of several major rivers. Since the mid-1970s, river ecosystems have recovered substantially in response to primary treatment of industrial and municipal wastewaters mandated by the Clean Water Act of 1972. Here we reconstruct an environmental history of a river-estuary complex in mid-coast Maine to examine ecosystem degradation and collapse during three centuries of intensified human disturbance followed by ecosystem recovery over the three decades since the Clean Water Act and the ban on the general use of DDT pesticide in 1972. Merrymeeting Bay is a large, freshwater tidal ecosystem formed by the confluence of six rivers, 30 km inland from Maine's Atlantic coast. It was once a major stopover for migrating waterfowl and provided vital spawning and nursery habitat for anadromous fish. However, human activities--beginning with overfishing, land clearance, and dam building in the 18th century and culminating in severe industrial and municipal pollution in the 20th century--fully degraded this important ecosystem. By the mid-20th century, summer dissolved oxygen concentrations were routinely depleted resulting in vast fish kills, and poisoning from DDT pesticide eliminated reproduction of Bald Eagles. Since primary treatment facilities began operation and the DDT ban went into effect, dissolved oxygen concentrations have generally been maintained above dangerously low levels, and reproduction has recovered in Bald Eagles and some species of anadromous fish. These improvements notwithstanding, the legacies of past human disturbance continue to impact this important ecosystem. Merrymeeting Bay is permanently shallower, its anadromous fish runs are vestiges of their former abundances, toxic substances remain in its biota and sediments, and it continues to receive excess nutrients from industrial and municipal sources. These legacies are varied and profound. Whereas some physical, chemical, and biological properties recovered rapidly with cessation of the disturbance, others will require considerable more time or may never fully recover.
10.2307/3858272|The Allegheny River drainage in southwestern New York supports a diverse fish fauna that includes reports of 95 species. Of these, nine species are classified as endangered, threatened, or of special concern in New York; this number represents 38% of the listed species in the state. Thirteen of the 95 species are reported only from the Allegheny River drainage and have not been found in other New York drainages. Eleven species are introduced, and four may have migrated into the drainage recently. Individual waters with high species richness, 46-67 species, include the Allegheny River, French Creek, Olean Creek, and Chautauqua Lake. The ichthyofauna of the Allegheny River drainage is important because of the number of rare fish species present in the drainage (26) when compared to other New York drainages.
27744571|In oviparous species that lack parental care, fitness of the mother depends on the selection of a high-quality nest site, as mothers do not compensate for poor incubation environment post-hatching. Near the northern range limit of Glyptemys insculpta (Wood Turtle), short summers and cool temperatures may be factors that limit population persistence because potential nest sites may not provide adequate conditions for successful egg incubation in some years. We quantified nest-site selection by examining soil temperature and substrate composition of real Wood Turtle nests (n = 5) and constructed false nests. False nests comprised two treatments: negative-test false nests (n = 5) constructed on beaches not used by females, and positive-test false nests (n = 5) constructed on beaches used by females but in microsites not chosen by females. Temperature was measured as total thermal units and mean temperature during the diel cycle. Soil composition was quantified using moisture content, organic content, and grain-size distribution. Soil temperature was the most important factor in nest-site selection. Temperatures and total thermal units were significantly higher and more variable in real nests than in false nests, except during the night. Soil composition was not significantly different among treatments. Grain sizes ranged from fine to gravel, and real nests contained mainly (58% to 96%) medium sand or larger grains. There was little variation in soil moisture among real nests, suggesting that females were choosing specific humidity conditions for nesting. Our findings can be directly applied to protecting nesting beaches for Wood Turtles, which are considered a species at risk.
27744550|Few data are available that describe the roosting and foraging ecology of the Hoary Bat (Lasiurus cinereus), and no such data are available for the northeastern United States. We captured a juvenile Hoary Bat in south-central New Hampshire during July of 2007 and monitored its roosting behavior for ten days and its foraging behavior for one night. The bat roosted with two other bats, which we presumed were its mother and sibling. These bats roosted exclusively in Tsuga canadensis (Eastern Hemlock Tree) and tended to roost near tree tops in the forest canopy. The radiotagged bat used at least six roost trees and changed roost location eight times during the ten-day observation period. Although roost-tree fidelity was low, all roost trees were located within a maximum circular area of 0.5 ha. The bat foraged over an estimated 156-ha area of mostly forest habitat (68%), with additional open habitats (15%) and wetlands (17%). These data are the first observations of roosting and foraging behaviors by the Hoary Bat in the northeastern region of its geographic range.
3858507|Because wintering Willow Ptarmigan (Lagopus lagopus) display sex segregation with management implications, we obtained age and sex ratios from 340 hunter-harvested Willow Ptarmigan from 4 winter areas in Labrador: Javelin Mountain 1998-1999 (111 birds), Javelin Mountain 1999-2000 (96 birds), Lobstick Structure 1999-2000 (98 birds), and Mokami Hill 1998-1999 (35 birds). Those data illustrate a considerable age and sex segregation among wintering areas: Lobstick Structure birds were disproportionately male, 70% (46% adult male), Javelin Mountain birds were disproportionately female, 78% in 1998-1999 and 77% in 1999-2000. Mokami Hill, produced sex ratios between those of the other two areas: 69% female. Sex segregation on our wintering areas likely resulted from females dispersing farther from breeding areas than males. Because the climates of Javelin Mountain and Mokami Hill are successively warmer than that of Lobstick Structure, females may be selecting wintering areas that produce higher quality food than areas occupied by males. If Willow Ptarmigan are disproportionately taken from the Javelin Mountain area, then the substantial sex segregation on wintering areas suggests that hunter-harvest can suppress breeding success.
40664872|Several riverine species in the insect order Odonata (dragonflies and damselflies) are recognized as being of conservation concern in the Northeast. Along the Connecticut River, most data on these species have come from the southern portion of the river that passes through Connecticut and Massachusetts, while the northern portion has been poorly sampled until recently. In this paper, we summarize recent surveys along the Vermont-New Hampshire stretch of the river and place these in the context of known distributional data for the river as a whole. Our focus is on species typical of large rivers, with a particular focus on members of the family Gomphidae (clubtails). Also included is information on the first Vermont or New Hampshire records of three speciesEnallagma antennatum, Enallagma durum, and Stylurus amnicolaand the first upper river records for several other species.
10.2307/3858608|Macrobdella sestertia, a large rare leech, is reported from Maine for the first time. Prior to the Maine specimen, the species was known only from four specimens collected in Massachusetts. Currently, a total of four hirudiniform leech species, including the common but previously unreported Haemopis marmorata, are known from the state and are included in a key to hirudiniform species of Maine.
3858461|Natural hybridization is rare in the family Ictaluridae. Putative hybrids of the madtoms Noturus flavus and N. insignis were collected from Blackwater River, Monongahela River drainage, WV. Noturus flavus is native to the Monongahela River drainage, whereas N. insignis is nonnative. We quantified morphological differences among N. flavus, N. insignis, and putative hybrids by sheared principal components analysis of morphometric characters. Putative hybrids were intermediate in tooth patch dimensions, caudal fin pigmentation, length of the dorsal fin base, distance between the adipose/caudal notch and base of caudal fin, and position of anal fin. Hybridization between N. flavus and N. insignis is supported by morphological intermediacy, and may be linked to higher abundances of N. insignis or degraded habitat in the Blackwater River.
25177081|Somatic growth rates, RNA:DNA, and feeding habits of juvenile Pseudopleuronectes americanus (Winter Flounder) were used to assess small-scale spatio-temporal variations in the habitat quality of Mount Hope Bay and Narragansett Bay, RI. Three successive caging experiments (14-16 d each) were conducted with flounder (initial size = 25-35 mm total length) in June and July 2003 in shallow water habitats (&lt;1 m) of Spar Island, Common Fence Point, and Hog Island; the first two sites were located in Mount Hope Bay, and the latter in Narragansett Bay. The average growth rate of flounder ranged between 0.51 and 0.95 mm d and was inversely related with increased incidences of hypoxic conditions (i.e., amount of time dissolved oxygen was 4.0 mg L). RNA:DNA, a surrogate measure of growth and feeding condition, corroborated somatic growth trends, and therefore exhibited similar spatio-temporal variability. In contrast to somatic growth, however, water temperature was the most important factor affecting flounder condition, such that RNA:DNA was inversely related to the amount of time water temperature was &gt;20 C. Benthic core samples indicated that food availability was greatest at Spar Island and was attributable to the numerical dominance of Crepidula fornicata Linnaeus (slipper limpet) during the early summer. Moreover, stomach contents of flounder reflected differences in prey species composition, whereby individuals from Spar Island consumed a higher percentage of molluscs relative to the other sites, where the preferred prey items were harpacticoid copepods and small decapods (primarily brachyuran crabs). Despite the observed discrepancies in feeding habits across sites, the extent of stomach fullness for flounder did not vary spatially (mean fullness = 44-49% across sites). It is concluded that the somatic growth, RNA:DNA, and feeding behavior of juvenile flounder in Mount Hope Bay and Narragansett Bay varies significantly across small spatio-temporal scales in response to changes in dissolved oxygen and thermal conditions.
3858683|From observations made on Manawagonish Island, NB in 2002 and 2004, we provide first documentation of the Ring-billed Gull (Larus delawarensis Ord) nesting in the Bay of Fundy. These observations counter suggestions that this species is no longer expanding its breeding range in the Maritimes. We also place this event in a broader context in which other coastal marine bird species have been recorded expanding or reclaiming breeding ranges in the region in recent decades.
3858639|We surveyed bats at 36 abandoned coal mines during summer 2002 and 47 mines during fall 2002 at New River Gorge National River and Gauley River National Recreation Area, WV. During summer, we captured three federally endangered Virginia big-eared bats at two mine entrances, and 25 were captured at 12 mine entrances during fall. These represent the first documented captures of this species at coal mines in West Virginia. Future survey efforts conducted throughout the range of the Virginia big-eared bat should include abandoned coal mines.
40959930|We report the discovery of the non-native loach Misgurnus anguillicaudatus (Oriental Weatherfish) from two streams in Maryland in the vicinity of the Baltimore metropolitan area. Although only two individuals have been observed since 2007, a ban on this species in Maryland should be enacted to prevent it from becoming established in the state.
25177144|Catharus bicknelli (Bicknell's Thrush) is a rare inhabitant of mountain forests in the northeastern United States and southeastern Canada. Conservation planners consider the species to be at risk, although evidence of population decline has thus far been localized or inconclusive. In order to assess the status of Bicknell's Thrush in the White Mountains of New Hampshire, we conducted point-count surveys on 40 forested, high-elevation routes from 1993 to 2003. Non-linear regression on aggregate counts revealed a 7% annual decline over this period (P &lt; 0.1). We discuss possible threats to Bicknell's Thrush, including winter habitat loss, pollution of mountain ecosystems, climate change, and human intrusion during breeding. A range-wide monitoring program that incorporates new survey methods is needed to help identify limiting factors and reduce potential sources of error and bias. This study underscores the importance of efforts to monitor and conserve Bicknell's Thrush.
4131005| A large whale shark, Rhincodon typus, was observed in the Bay of Fundy, Canada on August 22, 1997. The sighting was at 441519N, 674407W. Whale sharks are a circumglobal species occurring in the warmer waters of the tropical and subtropical seas and no prior sightings of this animal north of 42N have been reported. The reasons for the shark to be in the Bay are unknown. It is important to note that the whale shark may be able to tolerate the colder waters of the Bay of Fundy, although there have been no subsequent sightings in the Bay. 
41495805|The western Betic Mountain Range contains the largest ultramafic rock area in the Iberian Peninsula. The predominant flora of this southern territory (over two hundred taxa) was screened for Ni accumulation. Only two species showed important concentrations of Ni in their tissues, Alyssum serpyllifolium subsp. malacitanum (Brassicaceae), a Ni hyperaccumulator, and Saxfraga gemmulosa (Saxifragaceae). Saxfraga gemmulosa is a rare endemic species restricted to the ultramafic outcrops of Mlaga (South Spain), mainly growing in basic or ultrabasic rock crevices, where it appears with other serpentinophytes such as Asplenium adiantum-nigrum subsp. corunnense (Aspleniaceae). Nickel and other representative elements present in Saxfraga gemmulosa and its soils from Sierra Bermeja (Mlaga) were studied by inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry (ICP-MS). The structures of the plant were micromorphologically analysed by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) coupled to an Energy-Dispersive X-Ray Probe (EDX). The results showed the Ni hyperaccumulating characteristics of S. gemmulosa. As observed in other Ni hyperaccumulator plants, accumulation was mainly detected in leaf epidermis.
41429413|Mowed roadsides represent a significant proportion of the grassland habitat in New England, but they receive little attention from naturalists. We sought to test the assumption that mowed roadsides are ecological wastelands dominated by deliberately seeded introduced perennial grass species. Surveys of seven sites in Rhode Island during the summer of 2008 revealed that roadsides are important refugia for grassland plants, including two species and two subspecies believed to be rare in New England. We found 80 grass and forb species, 45% of which are native. We also examined the effects of distance from the road and topography on the relative distributions of annual versus perennial species and of native versus introduced species. Perennial species cover increased with distance from the road at all seven sites, and the number of perennial species increased at five sites. The front slope had the most annual species and the most annual cover at all sites. Perennial species dominated the back slope, swale, and flat areas. Neither distance from the road nor topography had a clear effect on the distribution of native species relative to introduced species. Highway roadsides in southern New England are not an ecological wasteland, but rather are a complex upland grassland habitat reminiscent of the agricultural grasslands which dominated the region in the nineteenth century.
3858632|Syntopic occurrence of the erythristic morph of the Eastern Red-backed Salamander (Plethodon cinereus) and the red eft stage of the Eastern Newt (Notophthalmus viridescens) was documented. Pauley et al. (2001) previously reported the occurrence of the erythristic morph at this site in northern Pennsylvania, but were not able to verify the presence of N. viridescens. The erythristic morph was found at the three plots surveyed and represented 35.2% of the P. cinereus counted in this study.
43288172|Specimens of Nocomis biguttatus (Hornyhead Chub) from South Fork Hughes River (Little Kanawha River drainage, WV) were discovered in two museum lots at the North Carolina Museum of Natural Sciences. These accessions, collected in 1960 and 1966, represent an addition to the state fauna and are the first distribution records for this species from the Appalachian Plateau, WV.
43287112|The spatial distribution of the fiddler crab Uca pugnax (Atlantic Marsh Fiddler Crab) in relation to salt marsh patch structure was investigated along the central Connecticut coast of Long Island Sound. Salt marsh landscape structure at the study sites exhibit characteristics consistent with changes noted in other systems along the US Atlantic coast over the last several decades, including significant seaward erosion, encroachment of low-marsh plants into high marsh, changing composition of high-marsh plant patch structure, and marsh dieback and drowning. Our objective was to determine whether the spatial patterns of U. pugnax inhabiting these systems differed from those previously reported for southern New England in light of these characteristics. Densities of crab burrows were highest in low-marsh patches of Spartina alterniflora (Atlantic Smooth Cordgrass) and unvegetated muds along tidal creek banks and mosquito ditches. Seaward-eroding low-marsh areas were generally devoid of live crabs and burrows. Crabburrow densities varied across the complex patch mosaics in high-marsh areas. Burrow densities were generally low in the extensive short S. alterniflora patches that comprised much of the high-marsh area at several sites. However, high burrow densities, equivalent to low-marsh densities, were found in certain high-marsh patch types and upland transition zones. These included patches of Spartina patens (Marsh Hay Cordgrass), Distichiis Spicata (Desert Salt Grass), and mixes of these, and particularly in S. patens patches wholly or partly comprised of hummocks of vegetation surrounded by bare sediment. At several sites, burrow densities were high in upland transition zone patches of Phragmites australis (Common Reed). As such, crab-burrow distributions were highly variable at local, within-marsh system spatial scales. Live U. pugnax were found regularly in all patch types on all marshes. Our results indicate a much broader distribution of U. pugnax at relatively high densities across southern New England marsh landscapes than previously reported. This finding may represent a case of habitat expansion in response to salt marsh change, likely due to sea-level rise and other factors, creating high-marsh habitats in a variety of patch types that can support resident populations of fiddler crabs. Such an expansion of a dominant salt marsh species, which can significantly affect ecosystem dynamics, may potentially increase the complexity of current salt marsh change patterns and dynamics along southern New England coastlines.
3858628|One of the traditional methods of determining the dietary preferences of owls relies upon the identification of bony remains of prey contained in regurgitated pellets. Discovery of a pellet containing a large, complete primary feather from an adult, male Ring-necked Pheasant (Phasianus colchicus) prompted us to examine in detail a small sample of pellets from a Great Horned Owl (Bubo virginianus). Our analyses of feather and hair remains in these pellets documented the presence of three species of birds and two species of mammals, whereas bones in the pellets represented only mammals. This finding indicates an important bias that challenges the reliability of owl pellet studies making use of only osteological remains.
41315947|Merrymeeting Bay is a 4330-ha freshwater tidal ecosystem in mid-coast Maine that historically provided important stopover habitat for migrating waterfowl. To better understand a substantial decline in the number of ducks foraging in the ecosystem over the past fifty years, we reconstructed a history of environmental change using oral histories, aerial photography, and field experiments. Our studies revealed profound environmental change throughout the 20 th century that likely influenced the capacity of the ecosystem to support migrating waterfowl. Ironically, the unregulated discharge of industrial and municipal wastes and high rates of sedimentation associated with land use in the middle decades of the 20 th century probably enhanced the extent and productivity of intertidal, emergent plant communities including key forage plant species. However, over the past 30 years, primary wastewater treatment and regional reforestation have reduced the rates of nutrient loading and sedimentation, thereby diminishing the emergent vegetation. Reinforcing this decline in emergent vegetation, a precipitous decrease in submerged aquatic vegetation between 1956 and 1981 was likely related to extreme water turbidity. The collapse of subtidal aquatic vegetation would have reduced the variety and quantity of food items available to waterfowl. These local environmental changes coincided with regional declines in several duck species migrating along the Atlantic fly way. Therefore, both regional processes affecting the overall duck populations as well as local environmental change likely influenced the abundance of waterfowl using this site over the past 50 years.
10.2307/3858581|The Northeast includes three major forest regions-central hardwoods, hemlock-white pine northern hardwoods and spruce-fir. During the Indian period the oak dominated forests of southern New England were subjected to periodic fires creating open-park-like stands. Periodic hurricanes have also had a dramatic impact on forest development. With the arrival of Colonials, forests were cleared for agriculture and subsequently abandoned reverting to forest land again. Introduction of the chestnut blight, gypsy moth and hemlock woolly adelgid have had a major impact on certain tree species. Recently forest fragmentation and air pollution especially ozone and acid precipitation are having dramatic or subtle impacts in certain forested regions. Locally exotics are also adversely affecting forest composition. Future forestry practices are also of concern especially in the northern forest region. Although these forests are in a constant state of flux they warrant continued protection as a renewable natural resource.
41315967|Identifying and conserving functioning headwater ecosystems is essential for ensuring the structure and function of natural ecosystem processes. The Passage Creek watershed (PCW) in Virginia is an upland tributary system of the North Fork Shenandoah River, which is found within the Potomac River basin. The PCW appears to maintain an array of terrestrial and fluvial habitats now uncommon in many adjacent watersheds because of human disturbance. We assessed the biotic condition of the PCW by sampling the fish, mollusk, and salamander assemblages throughout the watershed. We observed 29 fish, 9 salamander, and 4 aquatic mollusk species representing a variety of life histories and functional groups. Furthermore, we found that due to spatial differences in abundance and species richness, each assemblage offered unique insight into the condition of the PCW. The fish assemblage was indicative of those found in least disturbed areas within the Potomac basin, while salamander abundance and richness indicated areas of habitat degradation. Though we observed only one mussel species, the presence of native mussels suggested the PCW has maintained sufficient ecological condition to support long-lived animals potentially sensitive to low-level, additive, and compounding long-term disturbances, while neighboring watershed assemblages have collapsed. Given the relatively high species richness found within PCW, this watershed may be pivotal to the overall persistence of aquatic species in the Potomac basin and should receive high priority for future conservation efforts.
25177117|Diverse freshwater lacustrine fishes enter tributaries to spawn, but resident riverine members may also occupy these same tributaries. While mark-recapture and biotelemetry studies suggest reproductive isolation between such populations, the assertion has rarely been tested genetically. To address this question, Micropterus dolomieu (Smallmouth Bass) from the southern shoreline of Lake Erie were compared genetically to bass in adjacent tributaries. Results from mitochondrial DNA sequences support the hypothesis that lacustrine and riverine populations segregate. Furthermore, divergences among tributary populations were often as large as those divergences between lacustrine and riverine bass, suggesting that each river population may become genetically distinct.
27744543|Bryophytes are often noted for their growth on specific rock types and their value as indicator species. However, some evidence suggests that restriction of a species to specific rock types may be less rigid and could vary under different environmental conditions. We assessed richness and distribution patterns of bryophytes at 22 rock outcrop locations in upstate New York (NY) and coastal Maine (ACAD). At each location, detailed surveys were done in five replicate 5-m by 2-m plots on vertical rock faces. We report on the 194 bryophyte species found in these surveys and present detailed analyses for the 137 species that occurred at two or more of the 22 locations. In general, liverworts were less likely to be dominant within a plot than mosses. Within-site dominance and frequency of liverworts were less well correlated to larger-scale frequency (number of locations and regions of occurrence). In NY, although there was no significant difference in bryophyte richness by rock type, rare species were more often found on calcium-containing rock types. Rock type, soil influence, number of liverwort species, and region were significant correlates with bryophyte species composition patterns. The importance of rock type in explaining species composition patterns was still significant though weaker when ACAD locations were included in the analysis. This difference resulted from a higher prevalence of leafy liverwort species on calcium-containing rock types in ACAD. Our results present further evidence that apparent restrictions to specific rock types may shift depending on environmental conditions such as increased humidity and narrower temperature extremes that occur along the north Atlantic coast.
10.2307/3858493|The first record of the erythristic phenotype of the red-backed salamander (Plethodon cinereus) is reported from Pennsylvania at the southern edge of the glaciated plateau. The site in Elk County contains the highest population frequency of the red morph reported to date (47.4%).
4130729|In the spirit of the second volume of Cosmos, we consider two worldviews that arose in the ancient Near East and are with us yet. For one, the heart of the world is wilderness. For the other, the word revolves around the city, the work of human hands. These two worldviews belonged to two kinds of civilization (each with its characteristic kind of farming): those of the hilly uplands and those of the great river valleys. The first kind is typified by the Canaanites and Israelites, the second by the Mesopotamians. The myth of the World Mountain is shown to have a basis in ecological fact: wilderness as the source of life. Eden is here identified with the wild World Mountain or Mountain of God, from which humans are necessarily exiled. As soon as we become fully human, we begin to destroy Eden and so expel ourselves. With the above dichotomy in mind, we ask: Was Humboldt a man of the Mountain or of the Tower?
40664842|Salt marshes are frequently exposed to storm overwashes resulting in large deposits of sand and wrack at the margin of the high marsh and sand dune communities. On Cape Cod, MA, these disturbance-generated areas are dominated by burrows of the crab Uca pugilator and by nest entrances of the ants Formica subsericea and Tetramorium caespitum. We mimicked the effects of storm deposits through additions of sand and wrack and examined their effects on the distributions of the biotic structures of these organisms. We found that while crabs responded negatively to sand deposition, ants did so positively. We suggest that soil temperature and moisture explain these patterns. Wrack deposits extend higher the zone of moist soil and decrease evaporative stress for marine organisms such as crabs, whereas sandy areas tend to be drier and preferred by terrestrial ants. We conclude that disturbance type influences the distribution of these marine and terrestrial organisms over the ecotone.
25177071|We conducted 11 call-broadcast surveys at one location in each of four wetlands, and detected an Ixobrychus exilis (Least Bittern) on only 9 of the 44 (20%) surveys, while the observer was located on average 50.1 m  19.7 SD (range = 25-75 m, n = 11 nests) from at least one active bittern nest during each survey. For 8 of 9 (89%) detections, at least one bittern was already vocalizing at the beginning of the survey, before the Least Bittern call was played. We show that it is possible for this species to remain undetected with the use of call-broadcasts that are less than 30 seconds, even though the species may be nesting as close as 25 m to the location from which the calls are broadcasted. We suggest that systematic nest searches are more reliable than call-broadcast surveys for detecting nesting Least Bitterns.
4499930|We describe the mite fauna inhabiting the canopies of remnant old-growth Acer saccharum (sugar maple) trees in northern hardwood stands under different silvicultural treatments in the Adirondack Mountains. We also compare mites on different arboreal substrates, including bare bark, the crustose lichen Pertusaria velata, and three foliose lichens: Flavoparmelia caperata, Parmelia squarrosa, and Punctelia rudecta. A total of 877 individual mites were collected representing 25 oribatid mite species, at least three of which are undescribed, and nine non-oribatid mite families. Mite abundance was sevenfold greater in Punctelia rudecta than on bare bark, and communities differed among bark, crustose lichen, and foliose lichens, but not among the different species of foliose lichens. Trees in old growth and reserve shelterwood stands supported different mite communities.
4499927|Recent work on exotic species in island ecosystems has revealed that many exotic woody plants are capable of dominating forests in which they occur, substantially altering forest structure and nutrient cycling. In mainland forests, however, few empirical examples of exotic dominance exist. The invasive shrub Rhamnus cathartica L. (common buckthorn) is reported to infest temperate forest understories in North America and displace native species, but its degree of dominance has been described only anecdotally. We investigated the extent to which common buckthorn can dominate forest ecosystems, and found strong evidence for monotypic dominance in several mesic and wet sites in southern Wisconsin. Among eight forest sites where common buckthorn was dominant, its mean relative density and basal area was 81% and 45%, respectively. Compared to eight native-dominated sites on similar soils, common buckthorn dominance fundamentally altered forest structure: total woody stem density at Rhamnus-domindited sites was more than twice that of native-dominated sites (two-way ANOVA; P < 0.05, n = 16), but total basal area did not differ significantly (P > 0.3). When considering dominance by size class within only the eight Rhamnus-dominated sites, common buckthorn genets were more abundant than native genets at 5-cm size classes up to and including 20-25 cm diameter at breast height, evidence that common buckthorn dominance can extend well beyond understory size classes. Within Rhamnus-dominated sites, mean relative density and basal area for common buckthorn exceed that reported for four other woody invaders found in the northeastern US, and thus we suggest that common buckthorn is a particularly successful invasive species in eastern temperate deciduous forests of North America and is capable of acting as an ecosystem dominant.
40959749|The influence of Castor canadensis (North American Beaver) impoundments on the loss of nitrate (NO) from stream water was monitored for 14 months at four sites in Homer Gulf Creek in central New York State. A relatively high NO concentration of 1.56 (0.14) mg N/L (mean (SEM)) at the upstream site was reduced by a daily average of 35.5% as the water passed through the beaver ponds. There was a significant difference (P < 0.001) in the mean values among the four sites, and significant differences were measured between the upstream site and each of the three downstream sites. The reduction in NO within the upstream beaver pond was significantly (P = 0.005) greater during the warmer months (April-September) of the study vs. the October-March period, suggesting biological processes were responsible. Stream water NO may have been transformed through biological processes, including the microbial process of denitrification, enhanced in the beaver ponds as a result of anoxic sediments, sufficient supplies of labile organic matter, and increased water residence time.
41495842|Presence/absence data of 11 species offish collected during 2008,2009, and 2010 from five selected stations along the freshwater reach of the Saw Mill River, Westchester County, NY were examined using correspondence and parsimony analysis. The length of the river sampled extended from its northern source in Chappaqua (river km 36.9) south to Executive Boulevard (river km 6.4) in Yonkers, a distance of approximately 30.5 km. Correspondence analysis showed the distribution of stations in "species space" and indicated that two stations (Chappaqua and Hawthorne Cinema) aligned to the left of the origin of Axis #1 but in different quadrants, while the other three stations (Rumbrook, Lawrence Street, and Executive Boulevard) aligned to the right of the origin of Axis #1, with Rumbrook in a different quadrant than the Lawrence Street and Executive Boulevard stations. However, the analysis does not indicate specifically which fish assemblages are associated with each station. Parsimony analysis, which treats each collection site as if it were a "taxon" and the presence/absence of the fish as "character states" of those "taxa", addressed this problem and aggregated the stations into two main groups, one containing two stations (Lawrence Street and Rumbrook) united by the presence of Rhinichthys cataractae (Longnose Dace) and the other consisting of three stations (Chappaqua, Hawthorne Cinema, and Executive Boulevard) united by the presence of Micropterus salmoides (Largemouth Bass). Within this larger group is a sub-group consisting of two stations (Chappaqua and Hawthorne Cinema) united by the presence of Lepomis gibbosus (Pumpkinseed). In addition, the analysis allows one to readily visualize aspects of the fish distributions along the length of the river. For example, Catostomus commersonii (White Sucker), Lepomis auritus (Redbreast Sunfish), and Rhinichthys atratulus (Blacknose Dace) were found at all sites, while Semotilus atromaculatus (Creek Chub) was found at both Chappaqua, the northernmost station, and also at Rumbrook, the approximate mid-point station of the section of the river sampled. The Longnose Dace was only found in the southern reaches of the river from Rumbrook south to Lawrence Street, and Etheostoma olmstedi (Tessellated Darter) was found at Executive Boulevard and Lawrence Street, our two southernmost stations. The analysis also readily identifies species that are endemic to a particular section of the river: Ambloplites rupestris (Rock Bass) at the Lawrence Street station, Salmo trutta (Brown Trout) at the Hawthorne Cinema site, and Pimephalesprometas (Fathead Minnow) at Chappaqua.
41315963|Developing models in support of ecosystem-based management requires knowledge of trophic dynamics of ecologically important species. A paucity of data on these dynamics for Long Island finfish is hindering development of ecosystem models required by recent legislation. In this study, we analyzed stomach contents of common fishes collected from Port Jefferson Harbor, Great South Bay, and Shinnecock Bay between May and October of 2007 and 2008. General diet composition was described by percent by number (% N), percent by weight (% W), percent frequency of occurrence (% O), and percent index of relative importance (% IRI) for seven species: Paralichthys dentatus (Summer Flounder), young-of-the-year (YOY) Pomatomus saltatrix (Bluefish), Prionotus evolans (Striped Searobin), Stenotomus chrysops (Scup), Scophthalmus aquosus (Windowpane Flounder), Raja eglanteria (Clearnose Skate), and Morone saxatilis (Striped Bass). Temporal diet composition was estimated for the consistently abundant YOY Bluefish, Summer Flounder, and Scup, where most n season >25. Subsampling of large catches of YOY Bluefish and Scup led to investigation of diet composition by cluster sampling. Important prey included Crangon sp. (sand shrimp), Cancer irroratus (Rock Crab), and forage fishes. Pseudopleuronectes americanus (Winter Flounder), once a common prey item in stomachs of piscivorous Long Island fishes, contributed  6.7 % O and  1.6 % W to the diets of Summer Flounder, Striped Searobin, Striped Bass, and YOY Bluefish. These changes may be due to shifts in the abundance of prey items or changes in spatial overlap of predator and prey.
41315962|Scirpus ancistrochaetus (Northeastern Bulrush) is a federally endangered sedge that grows in temporary wetlands. We performed surveys of 90 wetlands in Pennsylvania, Maryland, West Virginia, and Virginia, measuring areal extent, stem density, and number of flowering stems of Northeastern Bulrush. We also measured percentage of tree canopy closure, presence of threats, and size of wetland. Percentage of tree canopy closure was negatively correlated with wetland area, percentage of wetland area occupied by Northeastern Bulrush, total number of stems, stem density, and percentage of flowering stems. Wetland area was positively related to percentage of flowering stems and had a tendency to be positively related to stem density, likely in part due to larger wetlands having lower tree canopy closure. Invasive Phalaris arundinacea (Reed Canarygrass) and Microstegium vimineum (Japanese Stiltgrass) were present at 7% and 21% of the wetlands, respectively.Odocoileus virginianus (White-tailed Deer) and Ursus americanus (Black Bear) damage were present in 38% and 17% of wetlands, respectively. Modification of habitat was noted at 27% of wetlands. For wetlands with previous data on population size, 14% had increased, 34% were stable, 25% had decreased, and 27% were absent or had severely decreased. Our recommendations for management include reducing tree canopy closure with control of invasive species and White-tailed Deer where needed.
10.2307/3858555|For Cicindela puritana to be a viable member of New England's biota, there must be more than the current two occurrences. Assessment of the chance that the species can spread, whether on its own or through reintroduction, required identifying vacant habitat patches, which in turn, required refining the description of the species' larval habitat. Analysis of larval microhabitat variables identified sand texture as the most important determinant of habitat suitability. I then surveyed a 79 km stretch of the Connecticut River in Connecticut looking for suitable habitat patches. Of 32 beaches, none that appeared to be suitable was nearer than 12 km from currently occupied patches. Dispersal is unlikely to lead to establishment of new populations, so I recommend reintroducing C. puritana to an area in the vicinity of Windsor, CT where there are beaches on three islands that appear to be suitable larval habitat.
3858636|We assessed the biotic integrity of the middle-to-upper Delaware River. We sampled fish and assembled water quality data for eight stations and three habitat types (pool, riffle, and submerged aquatic vegetation [SAV]) of the Delaware River and applied an existing index of biotic integrity (IBI) recently developed for the northern mid-Atlantic slope drainages. We used Spearman's correlation to test IBI scores against measures of water quality (WQI) and cultural pollution. IBI scores were not significantly correlated with WQI, but were significantly negatively correlated with sewage load of adjacent tributaries (<tex-math>$\text{r}^{s}$</tex-math> = -0.647, p = 0.08). Sites ranged from good to fair in biotic integrity. Fish assemblage composition from all three habitat types was necessary in order to accurately characterize biotic integrity. Of the three habitat types, fish assemblages from SAV habitats had the greatest positive effect on biotic integrity. Continued application of the IBI may be useful as a long-term monitoring tool as this river corridor becomes increasingly urbanized.
41684236|A parsimony algorithm was used to evaluate the distribution and co-occurrence of 46 vascular salt marsh-associated species in 20 coastal salt marshes from Biscayne Bay National Park, FL, to Sable Island Marine Protected Sanctuary, NS, Canada. The method considers each salt marsh as if it were a taxon, and the presence or absence of a particular vascular plant species as a "character state" of that taxon. Using this information, a 20  46 data matrix was created and examined by multivariate ordination techniques and by parsimony analysis using the program WinClada running over NONA. A hierarchical clustering showed that the salt marsh sites on the eastern seaboard of North America formed two main clusters, one including all of the Florida sites and South Carolina, and the second including all of the more northern sites: North Carolina, Virginia, New Jersey, New York, and Sable Island, NS, Canada. Within the large southern cluster, we find two major sub-clusters separating the Florida marshes from those of South Carolina. Likewise, within the large northern cluster, we find two major sub-clusters separating North Carolina and Virginia from the other northern marshes. An essentially similar pattern of site grouping was also observed using the ordination technique of non-metric multidimensional scaling, in which the southern marshes all aligned to the left of the origin, while the more northern marshes align to its right. Parsimony analysis yielded twelve equally parsimonious trees from which a strict consensus tree was constructed. The topology of the consensus tree clearly shows two major clades, a southern one and a northern one, with the division occurring between South and North Carolina. The main southern clade is supported by the presence of Sporobolus virginicus (Seashore Dropseed), while the main northern clade is supported by the presence of Ruppia martima (Widgeongrass). Spartina alterniflora (Smooth or Atlantic Cordgrass), which we take as the single species that defines the salt marsh on the eastern coast of North America, was present in all of the sampled sites except Biscayne Bay National Park, FL, a mangrove swamp.
10.2307/3858483|We documented estuarine predation by an immature striped bass (Morone saxatilis) upon an Atlantic salmon smolt (Salmo salar) that had previously been tagged with an ultrasonic transmitter on the Narraguagus River, Maine. That observation revealed the potential confounding effects that fish predation can have upon a telemetry study if the behavior of predatory fish cannot be distinguished from that of the target species. To investigate this effect, we also tracked the movements of immature striped bass in the same river system. We found that the striped bass alternately moved upstream and down-stream of the release site, independent of tidal flows and light conditions, whereas salmon movements were generally passive and in the direction of tidal flows. These differences can be incorporated into our data analysis to better recognize and explain anomalous behavior of tagged smolts. Salmon abundance in Maine rivers has steadily declined since the mid-1980s, whereas Atlantic coast striped bass stocks have been increasing in abundance. Although the potential exists for significant smolt predation by striped bass in any one year, striped bass abundance in eastern Maine rivers is highly variable between years, suggesting that striped bass predation is not the proximate cause of the persistent decline in salmon populations.
41810144|Seasonal woodland pools contribute significant biomass to terrestrial ecosystems through production of pool-breeding amphibians. The movement of amphibian metamorphs potentially transports toxins bioaccumulated during larval development in the natal pool into the surrounding terrestrial environment. We documented total mercury (THg) in seasonal woodland pool water, sediment, litter, and Lithobates sylvaticus LeConte (Wood Frog) in Acadia National Park, ME. THg concentrations in pool water varied over the study season, increasing during April-June and remaining high in 2 of 4 pools upon October refill. Water in pools surrounded by softwoods had lower pH, greater dissolved organic carbon, and greater THg concentrations than pools surrounded by hardwoods, with seasonal patterns in sediment THg but not litter THg. THg increased rapidly from near or below detection in 1-2 week old embryos (< 0.2 ng; 0-0.49 ppb wet weight) to 17.1-54.2 ppb in tadpoles within 6 weeks; 7.2-42.0% of THg was methyl Hg in tadpoles near metamorphosis. Metamorphs emigrating from seasonal pools may transfer mercury into terrestrial food webs.
41684253|Fish communities at nine sites in three estuaries, all emptying into Charlottetown Harbour, PE, Canada, were sampled with beach seines to assess variability at small spatial (at the same sites, between sites within estuaries, between adjacent estuaries) and temporal (minutes, hours, days, months, ebb and flood tides) scales. A total of 11 species were identified, of which two (Fundulus heteroclitus [Mummichog] and Menidia menidia [Atlantic Silverside]) made up more than 90% of the individuals captured. Samples from the same sites taken 20-30 min apart did not differ with respect to number of individuals, number of species caught, or species diversity. However, the cumulative number of species continued to increase over the first five of six samples with repeated sampling at the same location. On larger spatial scales, communities (as measured by the Global R coefficients) differed more between sites within estuaries than between adjacent estuaries. Temporal variability in fish community composition was minimal and increased with increasing time between seine hauls. Time of day was weakly but positively correlated with the number of species captured, fish communities captured during flood and ebb tides did not differ significantly, and slightly more species were captured in June than in either July or August. An understanding of variability in beach seine samples taken at small spatial and temporal scales is important before implementing sampling programs to look at broad-scale patterns in fish communities.
3858502|Understanding space-use patterns of highly mobile animals, such as woodland caribou (Rangifer tarandus caribou Gmelin), is required for ecosystem conservation. We consider the use of lakes in winter as important habitat for woodland caribou both to reduce predation risk and acquire food. To test scale differences relative to caribou use of ice-covered lakes in winter, we compare the use of ice-covered lakes within a regional study area and within sub-regional landscapes at two spatial levels: (1) seasonal selection of winter ranges and (2) daily locations. We used 100% minimum convex polygons with a 500-m buffer for winter ranges, and 500-m radius buffer around individual radio telemetry locations of 27 caribou from 1995 to 2000 as spatial measures of use of lakes of various dimensions by caribou. In the winter-range analysis, caribou used areas with more lakes in the 5-100-ha size class, including lakes with more perimeter, larger area, and higher fractal dimensions as compared with the relative distribution of available lakes. These patterns were confirmed at the regional level (Manitoba border in the west to the Hudson Bay lowlands to the east) and at the sub-regional level. At the finest level of resolution of daily locations, caribou selected lakes with greater area and perimeter in the west but not in the east. Our findings should be considered when developing local plans for forest management and designing landscapes where the conservation of woodland caribou is a goal.
27744556|Fagus grandifolia (American Beech) is uncommon along the coast of southern New England, but occasionally forms unusual monodominant stands with higher beech abundance than is typical for inland areas. This study documents the distribution of beech on Cape Cod and nearby coastal islands, and evaluates environmental and historical factors that are likely to influence its distribution. Tree-ring data from six beech forests in the study region were used to determine age structure and to assess the importance of disturbance history for beech forest development. Beech is irregularly distributed across the coastal region. It is most common and abundant on moraines and in areas that are close to water bodies, presumably as a result of reduced drought stress and increased protection from wildfire. The largest monodominant beech forest (approximately 1000 ha) known from the eastern US occurs on Naushon Island, but few stands elsewhere in the region exceed 5 ha. In the six intensively studied forests, the relative importance of beech has increased in recent decades. Decreased establishment of oaks and other associated species in the 20th century has presumably resulted from regional declines in forest harvesting and fire. Increased beech dominance in the 20th century corresponds with episodic beech establishment and growth release after several hurricanes in the 1920s1950s. Thus, unlike the small-scale gap dynamics characteristic of beech in the extensive northern hardwood forests of northern New England and New York, large-scale wind disturbances apparently contribute to local beech dominance in coastal New England where beech is otherwise uncommon.
10.2307/3858400|Butterfly communities were inventoried at two national parks, Allegheny Portage Railroad National Historic Site (ALPO) and Johnstown Flood National Memorial (JOFL), Pennsylvania, in 1998. Information on presence, abundance, and distribution of butterflies is important to National Park Service personnel, who are mandated to manage the biodiversity of natural resources. As large tracts of public lands, such as national parks, become more insular with increased habitat fragmentation, they will become increasingly valuable for the long-term maintenance of faunal diversity and the functional integrity of ecosystems in the eastern United States. Surveys were conducted monthly from late spring to early fall along two transects in ALPO and one in JOFL. Twenty-eight butterfly species were noted in the study. At ALPO, most species and individuals were found along open (non-wooded) sectors of the transects, including Phyciodes tharos (Drury) (Pearl Crescent), Boloria bellona (F.) (Meadow Fritillary), and Thymelicus lineola (Ochs.) (European Skipper). At JOFL, the most abundant butterfly was T. lineola. We observed 27 of 110 flowering plant species being used as nectar sources by butterflies on 200 occasions in both parks combined. At both parks, an effort should be made to develop mowed lawns into unmowed grasslands to increase their use by butterfly species by providing habitat for wildflowers (nectar sources).
41810147|Since 1993, oyster reef replenishment efforts in the Virginia portion of the Chesapeake Bay have relied heavily on construction of oyster shell reefs with enhanced vertical relief. We evaluated the performance of six reefs constructed in proximity to natural subtidal oyster bars by comparing recruit densities (spat m, where spat are young-of-the-year oysters with shell heights less than 50 mm) between habitats. Recruitment was higher on the reefs than bars during the first 1-3 yr post-construction, usually by at least an order of magnitude. Within 7 yr, recruitment was similar between reef-bar pairs although both reefs and bars received additions of shell, live oysters, or both during the study period. At decadal time scales, constructed oyster reefs did not show enhanced recruitment relative to adjacent natural oyster bars. The rapid decline in reef recruitment post-construction is likely related to three processes: (i) shell degradation by taphonomic processes, (ii) biofouling that occludes the shell surface to recruitment, and (iii) inability of extant oysters on the reef to produce new shell at a rate commensurate with losses to (i) and (ii). There appears to be a requirement for continued replenishment activity to maintain the shell base on these reefs, contrary to the dynamics of a healthy natural oyster population. The similarity in recruitment between constructed reefs and natural bars at decadal time scales suggests that subtidal shell plants or shell additions to natural bars may be a more cost-effective repletion strategy because they provide equal population enhancement per unit area.
3858380|We investigated the occurrence of raccoon roundworm (Baylisascaris procyonis) in common raccoons (Procyon lotor) in the Allegheny Mountains of West Virginia during spring (n = 9, April-June) and fall (n = 5, August-October) 2001 and spring (n = 7) and fall (n = 4) 2002. We found no evidence of B. procyonis infection in 25 raccoons sampled by fecal floatation and necropsy methodologies. However, we did detect Capillaria sp. eggs in 28% and Strongyloides sp. eggs in 64% of individual raccoons, respectively. Baylisascaris procyonis has been implicated in population declines of the Allegheny woodrat (Neotoma magister) in the northeastern United States. The low prevalence of B. procyonis in an area inhabited by what is believed to be a stable population of Allegheny woodrats supports conservation measures to continue to monitor anthropogenic activities that potentially may increase the prevalence of B. procyonis or raccoon interaction with Allegheny woodrats in the region.
25177125|Changes in land use and intensification of agricultural practices are associated with declines of grassland songbird populations in North America. Hay harvests in the northeastern United States are occurring earlier and more frequently today than 30 years ago, resulting in substantially decreased nesting success of grassland songbirds on early-hayed fields. Few studies have examined whether uncut patches within fields cut during the breeding season can increase the nesting success of grassland songbirds. Twenty-nine artificial nests were placed in 17 uncut patches (mean = 0.337 ha, median = 0.103 ha) on four early-hayed fields in Shelburne, VT. Only one of the 29 artificial nests was depredated. Despite the small sample size, these data suggest that minimal nest cover may allow some reproductive success during hay harvest. Investigating the effect of patch size variation, patch placement, and vegetation structure within uncut patches would prove useful for potential management strategies. While most farmers will be unable to find and cut around grassland songbird nests, larger uncut patches (i.e., 1 ha) encompassing areas with high avian nesting densities may be a useful management strategy for grassland birds in intensively managed hayfields of the Champlain Valley of Vermont and New York or similar dairy-dominated agricultural landscapes.
25177137|Intra- and inter-specific variation in ectoparasite prevalence was characterized by collecting and identifying parasites on Myotis septentrionalis (Northern Long-eared Bat) and Myotis lucifugus (Little Brown Bat) returning to a large hibernaculum during the autumn migratory and reproductive swarming event in Nova Scotia, Canada. Unlike males, female bats in the region are colonial roosters during the summer, which may facilitate ectoparasite transfer. On bats captured at Hayes Cave, NS, there were at least four species of ectoparasites including Myodopsylla insignis (Siphonaptera: Ischnopsyllidae), Spinturnix americanus (Acarina: Spinturnicidae), Cimex adjunctus (Hemiptera: Cimicidae), and a larval Trombiculid mite, Leptotrombidium myotis (Acarina: Trombiculidae). Parasite prevalence was 30.6% and 27.8% for adult M. septentrionalis females and males, respectively, and 25.6% and 16.3% for adult female and male M. lucifugus, respectively. Myodopsylla insignis, S. americanus, C. adjunctus, and L. myotis all represent new host records on both bat species in Nova Scotia, while S. americanus and L. myotis are new species records for the province.
3858294| Seed banks of Aeschynomene virginica may have significant implications for population dynamics and conservation of this rare, freshwater wetland, annual plant. Little work, however, has been done on the size and extent of the seed bank of this threatened plant. Experimental seed banks were placed at three sites to estimate overwinter seed survivorship and the potential for long-term seed dormancy. The soil beneath 5 extant populations was sampled after current-year seed germination and before seed fall to determine the presence and spatial distribution of seeds surviving more than one season. An average of 47.4  2.8 ( 1 SE) of the 125 seeds placed in the field survived over winter. Of those seeds that were recovered from experimental seed banks, an average of 37.3  1.7 germinated under greenhouse conditions. When the seed coats of ungerminated seeds recovered from experimental seed banks (10.3  0.3) were scored, 4.9  0.8 seeds germinated. Analysis of soil cores from the field showed high variability in natural seed distribution. Significantly more potentially viable seeds were found in plots with standing A. virginica plants than in those with no standing plants. Results indicate that A. virginica forms a Type III seed bank. The seeds in a seed bank may augment population size following poor seed production years, or they may re-establish locally extinct A. virginica populations. 
10.2307/3858656|The spotfin killifish, Fundulus luciae, occurs in salt and brackish marshes of the east coast of the United States from Georgia to Massachusetts. The purpose of this study was to provide additional information on the distribution and habitat preferences of spotfin killifish in the lower Hudson River Estuary, where prior to 2000, this species had not been reported. The primary study site was Piermont Marsh, Rockland County, NY. Additional collection sites included Ralph Creek, Brooklyn, NY; Saw Mill Creek, Staten Island, NY; and Lincoln Park, Jersey City, NJ. Twenty-five spotfin killifish were collected at Piermont Marsh and Ralph Creek during 2001. All specimens were collected from the upper intertidal zone, in accordance with the reported habitat preferences and life history of this species. Samples from previous studies in northeastern U.S. brackish/salt marshes were examined, and spotfin killifish were identified from samples collected at Branford, CT in 1999; Milford, CT in 2000; and Larchmont, NY in 1976. These findings indicate that spotfin killifish may not necessarily be rare; however, their cryptic lifestyle and preference for high intertidal brackish/salt marsh habitat has often precluded detailed assessments of their life history and geographic distribution.
10.2307/3858362|Turkey Vultures (Cathartes aura) and Black Vultures (Coragyps atratus) were observed at a day perch in south-central Pennsylvania during winter of 1984-85 to determine whether there were species-specific differences in behavior that could be correlated with microclimatic variables. Multiple linear regression analysis was used to relate behavior at the day perch to wind speed, solar radiation, and air temperature. Turkey Vultures arrived earlier at the day perch and moved more predictably than did Black Vultures from high branches to a fence or to the ground as solar radiation and wind speed rose. Although neither species made adjustments in solar orientation to changing conditions, the Turkey Vulture predictably demonstrated wing-spreading behavior in conjunction with high solar radiation.
3858684|Corema conradii (broom-crowberry, Ericaceae) is a rare dioecious shrub that reaches the southern extent of its range in New Jersey. A hot fire burned through one of the most extensive New Jersey populations of this state-endangered species during the summer of 2001, resulting in mortality of nearly all plants in the burned areas. Significant seedling recruitment occurred in the fall of 2002, followed by an even greater seedling emergence the following year. Fire is known to be an important stimulus for seed germination in this species, and fire events are an important component of the life cycle. We report data on seedling emergence as well as present ecological and biological observations of Corema conradii in the unusual coremal habitat of the New Jersey Pine Barrens, and suggest a life cycle model for this understudied species.
10.2307/3858443|A native epiphytic moss (Dicranum montanum Hedw.) growing on the trunks of northern red oak trees (Quercus rubra L.) was utilized to biomonitor atmospheric deposition within a mixed-hardwood forest along a ridgetop in southwestern Pennsylvania. Factor analysis and analysis of means revealed a location-related chemical signature in the forest moss that was spatially associated with local industrial/urban emissions, and especially with the metals/transition metals As, Cr, Cu, Fe, Mo, Ni, Pb, and Zn. This study documented the usefulness of D. montanum as a biomonitor for pollutant deposition, the utilization of epiphytic stem mosses in capturing stemflow pollutants, and provides a baseline dataset for monitoring relative changes in emissions/depositions in the study area.
3858690| Twelve hatchling Wood Turtles (Glyptemys insculpta) were tracked successfully with fluorescent powders during their migration from nest to water in New Hampshire in August and September 1993. Most frequently, hatchlings selected habitat in herbaceous vegetative cover and hayfield banks bordering sandpit nesting areas, as well as in dense woody and herbaceous ecotones along dirt roads. Mean distance traveled per movement was 23.4  9.5 (0.5-109.0) m (n = 84 movements). Total distance traveled to a brook averaged 131.7  119.7 (27-445) m (geometric mean distance = 96.75  0.35) (n = 12). Mean time taken to reach a brook was 6.2  6.3 (range 1-24) days (n = 12). Hatchlings' trails often overlapped one another precisely, suggesting that the turtles may have followed conspecific cues. We suggest that cues such as olfaction, vision, positive geotaxis, and auditory cues may be employed as orientation mechanisms in hatchling G. insculpta. 
3858386|In July 1999, unusually high trap success was recorded for a species of fly in the genus Anthomyia in Grand Pr, Nova Scotia. The fly was identified morphologically as A. pluvialis L., which has not been reported previously from mainland Nova Scotia. Some members of the genus Anthomyia are coprophagous and it is possible that these flies were feeding on large sources of composting chicken manure. Preliminary phylogenetic analysis based on mitochondrial COI sequence data suggests that the Nova Scotia population is more closely related to A. pluvialis from England than to A. pluvialis from Germany or A. parapluvialis from Africa. Somewhat confusing, however, was the observation that A. procellaris from England clustered with the Nova Scotia-England A. pluvialis clade. Larger sampling with broader geographic coverage will be required to document patterns of relatedness among European A. pluvialis and to confirm the phylogenetic relationship of A. procellaris and A. pluvialis. The COI gene appears to be sufficiently variable to be useful in this context.
43287111|The Ausable and Boquet rivers are two of New York's major tributaries to Lake Champlain. The two watersheds are referred to as the Boquet/Ausable Subbasin. The Subbasin receives drainage from 795 square miles including diverse wetland types. From 2005 to 2009, a total of 768 sampling sites (324 in the Ausable watershed and 444 in the Boquet watershed) within 56 wetlands were surveyed from mid-June to mid-August. A total of 470 plant species were recorded, including 138 species of woody plants, 85 species of graminoids, 23 species of pteridophytes, and 224 herbaceous species. Included in the sampled plant species were 50 exotic species, 14 non-native invasive species, 2 New York State (NYS) endangered species, 2 threatened species, and 31 species listed as exploitably vulnerable by the New York State Natural Heritage Program. Herbaceous plants were the most abundant group and accounted for 48% of all species (45% at Ausable, 49% at Boquet). The least abundant group was the pteridophytes (5%). The Ausable watershed samples included a larger number of plant species (368) than the Boquet watershed samples (332). This difference was statistically significant (P = 0.001). The Ausable watershed had larger numbers of native, exotic, invasive, and vulnerable species than the Boquet watershed. The differences were statistically significant for the native plants (P < 0.001), exotic plants (P = 0.001), and exploitably vulnerable plant species (P = 0.005) observed in the two watersheds. However, the difference in non-native invasive plant species observed in the two watersheds was not statistically significant (P = 0.505). Plant species differences between the two watersheds might have resulted from variations of multiple environmental factors including elevation, soil types, water chemistry, nutrient levels, and anthropogenic factors.
3858466|Recent data (1998-2003) collected during field surveys for nesting Common Eider (Somateria mollissima L.) along the Labrador coast have confirmed nesting by Black-headed Gulls (Larus ridibundus L.) and Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus Lesson), and suggest possible nesting by Caspian Terns (Sterna caspia Pallas). It appears that both Double-crested Cormorants and Caspian Terns have previously nested in Labrador, whereas nesting by the Black-headed Gull represents a recent range extension.
27744588|We examined habitat use by Wilsonia canadensis (Canada Warbler), a migratory songbird population in a 40-year decline. We used a long-term forest bird monitoring program in Vermont to compare the structural components of sites of warbler presence and absence. Habitats occupied included lowland Picea-Abies (spruce-fir), northern hardwood, and Quercus-Carya (oak-hickory) forests, and Acer rubrum-Thuja (Red Maple-cedar) and cedar-fir swamps. Northern hardwood forest detections were explored in greater detail due to the greater extent of coverage in Vermont, the higher number of survey points (n = 80), and high percentage of Canada Warbler detections at those points (29%). Within the northern hardwood forests, warblers occurred in patches with a lower canopy height and higher percent ground cover of shrubs and ferns than patches where warblers were not detected. These three parameters were also the strongest set of competing Akaike's information criterion model scores based on the patch attributes. In the northern hardwoods of the north-east, the conditions of reduced average canopy height and increased ground cover are created naturally by wind throw, ice storms, and insect damage, as well as under some forms of timber management. Canada Warblers appear to prefer these forest structural conditions because they provide abundant foraging strata, conceal nesting sites, and expose song perches.
10.2307/3858586|The textbook definition of the science of economics is the study of the allocation of scarce resources. Despite this rather broad definition, many non-economists regard economics as related only to cash flows. Consequently, they do not fully understand the role that the science of economics can play in the revitalization of the Northeastern forests. This paper discusses the potential contribution of the science of economics to the revitalization of forests, beginning with a discussion of the economic origins of the decline of the Northeastern forests. Next, the paper discusses the potential contribution of economics to the solution of the problem, through the development of policies to generate the revitalization and recovery of Northeastern forests.
10.2307/3858607|The distribution of plants and animals in Maine are determined, in part, by climatic variation. To quantify the relationship between climate and species distributions, estimates of temperature extremes, precipitation, snowfall, heat accumulation, potential evapotranspiration, and frost-free period were developed for the entire state. Regression analyses were used to relate records from 88 weather stations from 1964 to 1993 to latitude, longitude, elevation, and distance to the Atlantic Ocean. Regression coefficients were then used to interpolate climate across the state, calculating estimates across a grid of cells  1.9 km  1.9 km. Models were developed by year and by season. Squared multiple correlations for the models were between 0.94 and 0.41, with fall and winter models explaining on average 14% more observed variance than spring and summer models. Temperature dominated variables (including heat accumulation, potential evapotranspiration, and frost-free period) explained 12% more variation in observations than precipitation dominated variables. Local effects (e.g., rain shadows) were more evident in precipitation variables than temperature variables. Using the coefficients reported, researchers may easily develop geographic information system databases of climate from 1964 to 1993, for all of Maine.
27744548|The distribution and status of the bats of Prince Edward Island (PEI) is largely unknown. We addressed this information gap by compiling records from museums and published documents, and surveying for bats with traps and ultrasonic detectors during the summers of 2004 and 2005. Myotis lucifugus (Little Brown Bat) and M. septentrionalis (Northern Long-eared Bat) were the most abundant and widespread species of bats on the island. These species form maternity colonies, but the potential for there to be large natural hibernacula on the island is considered low. Lasiurus cinereus (Hoary Bat) is the only other species of bat that has been recorded on PEI, but its occurrence is rare. Diversity and abundance of bats on PEI may be limited by its northern insular geography, patchy distribution of forested areas, and lack of hibernacula. These limitations make protecting such resources on PEI and in neighboring provinces important for conserving the region's bat fauna.
10.2307/3858516|Canadian marine fisheries management differs from its equivalent in New England in many features, which have their roots in the fundamentally different governmental systems either side of the border. Before their collapse in 1993, the Atlantic Canadian groundfish fisheries were subject to science-based, government-centered management focused on catch quotas and license limitation. Individual quotas were little used outside the corporate sector. Since the collapse, a wide variety of initiatives have been tried. In contrast, the lobster fisheries have operated under license and capacity controls, with restricted seasons and minimum sizes to protect small lobsters. Other fisheries in the region have usually seen some combination of these management approaches.
43288164|The Puffin Patrol is a volunteer-based group that rescues fledgling Fratercula rctica (Atlantic Puffin) stranded in coastal communities overlooking the Witless Bay Seabird Ecological Reserve in Newfoundland, Canada, which hosts the two largest Atlantic Puffin colonies in North America. We examine local environmental factors (visibility, moon phase) that may influence light attraction in Atlantic Puffins and explore the use of weight data and other information collected through this volunteer-based initiative to help monitor the health of this important population. In 2011, only 13 live Atlantic Puffins were captured despite nightly search efforts throughout the fledging period; this low capture rate was attributed to poor breeding success at the colony. In contrast, in 2012,414 live fledgling puffins were captured and successfully released between 6 August and 5 September; 388 of these were banded and weighed prior to release. Capture rates on nights with poor visibility due to fog (26 fledglings per night) were similar to fogless nights (24 fledglings per night). Most live Atlantic Puffins were captured within a two-week period around the new moon. Fledglings weighed 248  25 (SD) g, range = 160-315 g; weights significantly declined over the fledging period. In addition to the direct conservation benefits of saving grounded Atlantic Puffins, information collected through this volunteer-based initiative 1) provides insight on factors affecting Atlantic Puffins' attraction to coastal communities, 2) shows the importance of mitigating artificial light during the birds' fledging period within these developing communities, and 3) helps collect important demographic information without causing additional disturbance to the colonies.
41495820|Hydrogen produced by serpentinization has the potential to fuel subsurface microbial metabolisms. In the serpentinizing subsurface, the solids comprise ultramafic parent rocks derived from the Earth's mantle, serpentine minerals, veins of hydroxides, and accessory magnetite and/or other metal-rich grains. Fluid that occurs with these solids is altered seawater and/or meteoric water and is predicted to be reducing. Hydrogen, a powerful reducing agent, is generated when Fe in Fe(OH) is oxidized to magnetite, coupled to the reduction of water. Theoretical considerations and experimental work suggest that serpentinization may generate fluid H concentrations as high as  75 millimolar, and that related seeps on land should have 300 micromolar. Field observations have shown that submarine serpentinizing seeps contain fluid H concentrations of 1 to 15 millimolar H, subseafloor sediments have 7-100 nanomolar H, and thermal springs have  13 nanomolar H. Fluid H has the potential to drive a variety of metabolic processes in oxygen-and organic carbondeprived environments, such that considerable interest has developed in the potential of serpentinizing systems as an abode of deep subsurface life. Based on empirical parameters, we have modeled the free-energy change for an array of metabolic reactions that may be associated with serpentinization, and find that metabolic niches do exist for methanogenesis, ferric iron reduction, sulfate reduction, and nitrate reduction, given environmentally realistic fluid chemistries.
41315937|Productivity is a primary parameter used in waterfowl population models; however, few long-term metrics of reproductive output exist for eastern North American waterfowl. We used 52 years of brood survey data from throughout Maine to determine mean Class III brood sizes for Lophodytes cucullatus (Hooded Merganser), Anas platyrhynchos (Mallard), Anas rubripes (American Black Duck), Aix sponsa (Wood Duck), Aythya collaris (Ring-necked Duck), and Bucephala clangula (Common Goldeneye). Using model selection with theoretic-information approaches, we also investigated effects of wetland type, mean ambient temperature during nesting and brood rearing, and year (1955-2007) on trends in brood sizes. Brood sizes declined throughout the survey period for American Black Ducks (-0.88 ducklings/brood), Wood Ducks (-0.91), Ring-necked Ducks (-1.75), and Common Goldeneyes (-1.45). Declines in brood sizes in Maine are consistent with that of other metrics of productivity (e.g., age ratios of harvested waterfowl) for breeding ducks in Maine and may be cause for concern, especially given that declines in brood sizes were observed across a range of species with highly disparate life-history strategies. Declines in age ratios of hunter-harvested ducks could be indicative of range-wide declines in productivity resulting from decreased breeding propensity, nest success, clutch size, or duckling survival. Our findings may suggest that declines in productivity observed in age ratios of hunter-harvested ducks are, at least in part, related to conditions during the breeding season. Thus, understanding factors influencing productivity on breeding grounds are of primary concern for long-term conservation of breeding waterfowl populations in Maine.
41684239|Bergmann's Rule notes a correlation between animal size reduction and geographical temperature increase in three dimensions. This study examines bird size change in the context of temperature change in a fourth dimension: time. The body size of six passerine bird species found year-round in Connecticut was measured using museum specimens collected between 1874 and 2009, during which time mean temperature in Connecticut increased by 0.94C (SD = 0.71). Mean wing length significantly decreased from a pre-1955 period (1874-1952) to a post-1955 period (1958-2010) for all species combined (P < 0.0025) and for three of the six species (P < 0.025), suggesting that some Connecticut passerines exhibit an evolved size decrease since 1874. This study joins a growing body of research suggesting a causal relationship between climate change and animal morphological change, and it demonstrates the importance of museum specimens in documenting such global trends.
3858381|Examination of 1693 birds mist netted in the central Maryland Piedmont during the nesting season revealed 14% (n = 232) infested with immature Ixodes scapularis Say. Ticks were removed from 40% of bird species examined (19 of 47 species). Regular collection of ticks established a temporal record of immature tick stages over 2 nesting seasons. Among birds with at least some immature ticks, hatch-year birds had more (62% of the ticks) than adult birds (38%), and a higher proportion of hatch-year than adult birds were infested. There were no differences between male and female birds of any species. One new bird species host record for immature I. scapularis was recorded. There were 13 records of recaptured birds from which ticks had been removed, which were subsequently reinfested. Ten recaptured birds from which ticks had been removed were not reinfested. Small numbers of immature Haemaphysalis leporispalustris (Packard) and two I. muris Bishop and Smith were collected.
10.2307/3858361|Seal interference with Atlantic Salmon (Salmo salar) aquaculture cages is a financial burden to the industry. Harbor seals (Phoca vitulina) on haul-out sites along portions of the New Brunswick coastline of the Bay of Fundy, Canada, were counted during the autumn and early winter of 1998. Semi-monthly aerial and shipboard surveys were conducted when low tide occurred in the afternoon. The maximum number of seals counted (1032) and the rate of population decline (6.7 per day) were similar to those reported in 1984 and 1987. The average number of seals per group (35.8  39.9) did not change over the season but fewer groups occurred in early winter. The seals vacated some areas which coincidentally contained Atlantic salmon aquaculture cage sites. Similar movements were observed 11 and 14 years previously, before the cage sites were established. Harbor seals are not attracted to areas containing aquaculture cage sites.
3858462|The yellow lampmussel (Lampsilis cariosa) has been unofficially listed as threatened in the United States and Canada and as endangered globally by the IUCN. Although it has been suggested that it may be extirpated in New Brunswick, we show that a large and historically well-established population of L. cariosa persists in the lower Saint John River and tributaries. This is in spite of evidence that the species range in the lower Saint John system has contracted over the past century. Although further work is needed to estimate overall abundance of L. cariosa in New Brunswick, the lower Saint John and tributaries appear to harbor most of the known Canadian population. The apparent size and presumed genetic integrity of the isolated New Brunswick population, as well as the current lack of zebra mussels (Dreissena polymorpha) in the Saint John system, suggests that this population could play an important role in the future conservation of the species.
40664878|In temperate ecosystems, hibernation allows bats to survive long periods of limited prey and water availability during colder months. Despite the extended amount of time some bats spend in hibernation, researchers have only recently been able to study the hibernation ecology of bats under natural conditions. With the emergence of white-nose syndrome (WNS), a mysterious disease presently killing large numbers of bats during the hibernation period in the northeastern United States, expanding our knowledge of hibernation ecology and natural history has become more crucial. To collect such data, we used temperature-sensitive radio transmitters and data loggers to monitor the skin temperatures (T sk ) of 6 bats (5 Myotis lucifugus [Little Brown Bat], and 1 Myotis septentrional is [Northern Long-eared Bat]) hibernating in Mount Aeolus Cave, VT in late winter 2008. We recorded T sk every 14 minutes for the life of the transmitters.We were able to monitor T sk from near ambient temperatures to above 30  C.Arousals occurred immediately before the signals were lost and at a time of increased numbers of bats observed on the landscape, thereby suggesting the emergence (and subsequent death) of bats. Our observations provide first data on the hibernating ecology of WNS-affected bats under natural conditions.
43287116|Ranaviruses are emerging infectious diseases that infect amphibians, fish, and reptiles. Several cases of morbidity and mortality in captive and natural populations of reptiles have been attributed to ranaviruses, but research in this taxon has been limited. We used oral-cloacal swabs and tail clips to survey two species, Chrysemys picta picta (Eastern Painted Turtles) and Sternotherus odoratus (Common Musk Turtles), in three water bodies in central Virginia to determine if ranaviruses were present. Prevalence of ranavirus in C. p. piet ranged from 4.8-31.6% at the three sites. Ranavirus was not detected in S. odoratus, but only oral-cloacal swabs were used in this species because of the cornified tail tip. While tail-tip tissues from all three study sites indicated presence of ranavirus in C. p. picta, no oral-cloacal swabs from these same turtles tested positive. We therefore suggest that oral-cloacal swabbing may yield false negatives when ranavirus is present in turtles, and that tissue sampling may be more appropriate for monitoring ranavirus in turtles.
10.2307/3858620|Dispelling the popular belief that the white shark (Carcharodon carcharias) is accidental to northern waters, the author, through compiling local and literary documentation of the species, suggests that the white shark is a perennial, seasonal visitor to the northern Gulf of Maine.
41429237|Two schools of thought dominate the molecular-genetics literature on Canis spp. (wolves) in the western Great Lakes region of the US and Canada: (1) they are hybrids between Canis lupus (Gray Wolf) and Canis latrans (Coyote), or (2) they are hybrids between the Gray Wolf and Canis lycaon (Eastern Wolf). This article presents 3 types of non-genetic evidence that bears on the controversy and concludes that all 3 support the second interpretation.
43287129|Chronic browsing by Odocoileus virginianus (White-tailed Deer) has potential to alter the life history of trees within Mid-Atlantic forests, including seedling size and abundance in the short term to overstory composition in the long term. Most studies quantify the effects of deer browse using small plots (<1 ha) and short time frames (<10 years), which may misrepresent larger-scale and longer-term impacts. We maintained a 4-ha deer exclusion plot for 20 years in a mesic northern Virginia temperate deciduous forest to examine the impacts of browsing on forest trees at multiple life-history stages. We compared the abundance and species composition, as well as seedling height, of woody stems across the seedling, small-sapling, and large-sapling size classes inside the deer exclosure and within an adjacent reference area. There were no significant differences in seedling abundance or community composition, but seedling height was on average 2.25 times greater in the exclosure than the reference plot. Small-sapling (1-5 cm DBH) stem count was 4.1 times greater inside the exclosure, with all species more abundant in the exclosure except As im ina triloba (Pawpaw) and Carya tomentosa (Mockernut Hickory). Differences were smaller in the large-sapling size class (5-10 cm DBH), with relative total large-sapling stem count only 1.25 times greater in the exclosure. Browsing pressure appeared to influence the composition and size structure of smaller stems in the past 20 years, but has had little effect on larger stems. While the lack of replication limited the scope of inference of our study, our findings suggest that natural delays in mature tree recruitment in a closed-canopy forest may mask the full impact of deer herbivory for decades.
25177069|Ambystoma texanum (Small-mouthed Salamander) breeds primarily in temporary wetlands, and while natural history studies have suggested a minimum larval period of about 2 mo, it is not clear how hydroperiod (the length of time that a temporary wetland holds water) influences populations. I conducted a mesocosm experiment to investigate the effects of hydroperiod on the completion of metamorphosis, as well as age and size at metamorphosis. I used hydroperiods of 50, 75, and 100 d, and a non-drying treatment as a control. Survival to the end of each hydroperiod was consistent among all groups, but no individuals completed metamorphosis in the 50-d treatment. The proportion of individuals compelting metamorphosis increased with longer hydroperiods, as did the age at metamorphosis. The size at metamorphosis, however, was not affected by the length of the hydroperiod. My results show that a minimum hydroperiod of 2.5 mo is necessary for populations of Small-mouthed Salamander. Maintenance of natural hydroperiods in wetlands under the threat of development is a critical consideration for the long-term persistence of Small-mouthed Salamander populations.
10.2307/3858670|Indirect effects of the microbial pesticide, Bacillus thuringiensis var. kurstaki (B.t.k.), have been found in birds, mammals, and some parasitic insects as a result of reduced abundance of lepidopteran larvae. Salamanders are insectivores that often contain high percentages of lepidopteran larvae in their diets. This study tested the hypothesis that salamanders experience dietary shifts or reduced abundance on plots where B.t.k. is applied, as a function of decreased caterpillar abundance. Three plots in the Monongahela National Forest, Pocahontas County, WV were sprayed with B.t.k., three were sprayed with the gypsy moth nuclear polyhedrosis virus (Gypchek), and three remained as unsprayed reference sites. Abundance and diet composition of five species of Plethodontidae (Desmognathus fuscus, D. monticola, D. ochrophaeus, Plethodon cinereus, P. glutinosus) were studied for two years. Neither salamander abundance nor the proportions of the major prey items in their diets differed significantly between treatments. Based on prey abundance, diets of D. monticola, P. glutinosus and D. fuscus were composed of 9%, 6.1%, and 4% lepidopteran larvae, respectively, whereas P. cinereus and D. ochrophaeus contained less than 2% caterpillars in their diets. For each salamander species, the proportions of lepidopteran larvae found in diets were significantly different among all treatments; however, these differences did not follow a pattern that indicated a B.t.k. impact.
43288169|Coastal heathlands are rare ecosystems that provide habitat for rare species in Nova Scotia. Thirty-nine plots were established in Nova Scotia heathlands to assess plant community composition and occurrence of rare plants. Analysis of species richness and multidimensional scaling (MDS) revealed that heathland communities are varied, with differences between regions, inland and coastal sites, and between physiognomy types. Six rare plants occurred within 9 of 39 plots. Coastal heathland communities were found to have greater species richness and variation in community type than previously thought. Heathland rare plants are not restricted to any particular community type; rather, rare coastal plants in Nova Scotia occur in a wide variety of community types. Coastal heathlands add diversity to the mostly forested landscape of Nova Scotia and provide habitat for rare species.
41684257|Excessive growth of macroalgae in estuarine systems is becoming increasingly common among coastal communities throughout the world. Despite repeated observations of macroalgae growing or deposited among the stems of lower marsh plants, few studies have quantitatively documented the presence of macroalgae in salt marsh communities. We conducted monthly surveys during 2009 and 2010 to document the species composition and abundance of the macroalgal community, along with associated biological and physical parameters, in 9 Rhode Island salt marshes. Macroalgae were found in every site during each month sampled, with a peak biomass during the fall, reaching densities up to 1500 g/m (wet mass). Nearly 80% of the macroalgae was found in the first 2 m of the lower marsh zone. Fucus spp. were dominant throughout the year, accounting for almost 70% of the annual abundance. While several biological parameters were measured in this study that may contribute to macroalgal accumulation, it is likely that a combination of biotic and abiotic factors drive macroalgal accumulation patterns in these systems.
4499894|Pre-settlement barrens of Illinois were fire-maintained communities with an open tree canopy and a grass-dominated ground layer. Found on rolling topography, they were commonly underlain by well-drained, nutrient poor, clayey soils. Fire suppression following the arrival of the European settlers resulted in canopy closure and the loss of many prairie species that once dominated the ground layer. Both barrens studied had closed canopies due to decreased fire frequency, though both are currently being managed by fire. Quercus alba (white oak) and Q. stellata (post oak) dominated the overstory and accounted for more than 50% of the importance value. Very few shrubs, woody seedlings, and saplings were present, probably due to recent fires. Stephen A. Forbes State Park Barren in Marion County had been subjected to one burn before the study, and few prairie species were present there. The Buhnerkempe Barren in Clay County was subjected to occasional burns prior to our study and had higher prairie species diversity.
4131016|The Portland Society of Natural History existed from 1843 to the early 1970s, when it was absorbed into the Maine Audubon Society. It counted among its members such notables as Commodore Robert E. Peary of North Pole fame, the poet Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, and George L. Goodale, who established the renowned "glass flowers" exhibit at Harvard University. Twice the Portland Society was devastated by fire, in 1854 and 1866, but like the mythological phoenix, it rose again from the ashes because of the dligence of its devoted members. The Society's library and natural history collections were once on a par with those at Harvard, Yale, the Boston Society of Natural History, and the Essex Museum (Salem, MA). Featured within its hallowed walls were such diverse items as a specimen of the extinct passenger pigeon, the skeletal remains of a prehistoric walrus discovered in Maine, and a moon rock from the 1969 Apollo 10 space mission. Upon the Society's disbandment, its vast holdings of books, papers, and natural history materials were scattered to farflung places, many now unknown. This paper presents an overview of the Portland Society's history. The regrettable fate of its profound natural history collections is also documented. The author was personally involved in salvaging many of the Society's holdings for posterity, including a protrait of Alexander von Humboldt that now resides at the Maine Audubon headquarters in Falmouth, ME. This painting had originally been saved from the 1866 conflagration by then-curator Edward Sylvester Morse.
25177086|A point-intercept survey was implemented in August 2000 to determine the distribution and richness of aquatic plant species present in Waneta Lake and Lamoka Lake, NY. Myriophyllum spicatum (Eurasian watermilfoil) was the most commonly observed species in Waneta Lake (25% of entire lake, 78% of littoral zone) and Lamoka Lake (43% of entire lake, 77% of littoral zone). Eurasian watermilfoil biomass (24.3 g DW/m) was also significantly greater (p  0.001) in Waneta Lake than native plant biomass. Our data suggests that Eurasian watermilfoil is invading the native plant communities of Waneta Lake and Lamoka Lake, thereby displacing native plants and limiting their growth to the shallow waters of the littoral zone.
10.2307/3858659|We measured infection rates of a putative parasitic castrating ciliate, in a population of the obligately parthenogenetic mayfly, Centroptilum triangulifer. Eleven percent of females sampled contained ciliates. All infected females oviposited ciliates when their abdomen contacted the water surface during oviposition trials. Furthermore, none of these females possessed eggs, yet all females contained gonadal tissue remnants within their abdomens, suggesting that ciliates were directly consuming gonadal tissue.
10.2307/3858594|General collections of ground beetles and water beetles were made on Brunette Island, Fortune Bay, Newfoundland in the summers of 1994 and 1995. A total of 70 species were collected, distributed as follows: Carabidae - 36 species; Haliplidae - 2; Dytiscidae - 23; Gyrinidae - 4; Hydrophilidae (excluding Sphaeridiinae) - 3; Elmidae - 1; and Chrysomelidae (Donaciinae) -1. This fauna represents about 24% of the fauna of these families occurring on the Island of Newfoundland. Although Brunette Island is physically varied, it is mainly covered by peat-dominated habitats that reduce its ecological diversity. Seven of the carabid species are introduced from Europe and have distributions limited to the area disturbed by previous human settlement. It is postulated that as these disturbed areas revert back to peatland, these seven species will follow the same fate as most mammalian introductions to the island, i.e., local extinction.
10.2307/3858284|Ectoparasites of various species of bats, carnivores, insectivores, and rodents were examined from the Newport Chemical Depot in Vermillion County, Indiana. A total of 16 species of hosts was examined for ectoparasites, including Blarina brevicauda, Eptesicus fuscus, Microtus ochrogaster, Microtus pennsylvanicus, Mus musculus, Mustela frenata, Mustela vison, Myotis lucifugus, Myotis septentrionalis, Peromyscus leucopus, Peromyscus maniculatus, Reithrodontomys megalotis, Sorex cinereus, Synaptomys cooperi, Tamias striatus, and Zapus hudsonius. The 49 species of ectoparasites recovered included four fleas, four sucking lice, one true bug, two ticks, and 38 mites. Thirty-two new ectoparasitic host records are reported for Indiana, of which 16 are new records for respective hosts throughout their entire range.
3858298|We note the first records of non-native Umbra limi (Umbridae; central mudminnow) in Maine. Unrecognized fish were captured in minnow traps set in Caribou Bog, in the town of Orono, during the summer of 1999. Preliminary identification by gross anatomy, coloration, and markings indicated that the fish were central mudminnow. We later confirmed this field identification using standard measurements and counts; specimens were vouchered (CU82322). Streams within Caribou Bog were resampled for central mudminnow during the summers of 2000 and 2002. Several size classes were captured, indicating the presence of viable populations. A single central mudminnow was also collected from the St. John River in northern Maine during the summer of 2005. Further sampling is warranted to determine the actual extent of central mudminnow distribution in Maine.
41684238|We are reporting on established populations and sightings of species in the genus Amynthas in Vermont, from Quechee (4338'N) central-eastern Vermont to Alburgh (4458'N) on the northwest border to Canada. To our knowledge, these are the first sightings of Amynthas spp. reported for Vermont. Invasive Asian earthworms of the genus Amynthas were found at three of twelve forested locations surveyed for invasive European earthworms. In addition, Amynthas was found in a number of horticultural settings. We evaluated soils and climate information for forested sites with Amynthas in Vermont and compared climate with the original range and more southern US sites. Our findings suggest that Amynthas may expand its range even further north than Vermont and that the freeze-free period required for maturation is approximately 90 days.
40664838|The plant community types on three tracts within the Burden Hill Forest, a distinctive outlier of the New Jersey Pine Barrens, are described and classified. While these tracts consist largely of a general pine barrens type, they display a number of significant differences from the main body of the Pine Barrens. These differences include additional forest plant community types previously undescribed for New Jersey, higher heterogeneity of community types and woody plant diversity, and the presence of several unusual or rare species including Castanea pumila (Allegheny Chinquapin).
10.2307/3858657|While sodium (Na) is likely the element sought at mineral licks, little is known regarding the influence of other minerals [e.g., sulfur, (S); calcium, (Ca); magnesium, (Mg)] in attracting white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus). To determine whether deer display a preference for minerals when visiting licks, we monitored visitation rates with remote-triggered cameras. We recorded a total of 620 deer-visits to licks (i.e., natural seep, salt, mineral mix) in southern Indiana between April and September of 1999. Females preferred mineral licks in the spring and salt licks in the summer. Males preferred salt licks in the summer. In areas where mineral concentration of forage is below dietary requirements, the presence of artificial licks may ameliorate potential negative impact of mineral demand on antlerogenesis and lactation.
10.2307/3858514|Overall trends and developments in fishing gear in New England show an increasing efficiency in fish capture. This efficiency is being countered through regulatory means and with gear modifications aimed at increased selectivity and reduced bottom impact. The four most economically valuable fishing techniques in New England -- otter trawl, scallop dredge, lobster pot, and gillnet -- have adopted and continue to adopt and develop modifications that increase selectivity and reduce impact.
10.2307/3858474|In 2000 and 2001, the only known North American breeding colony of Manx Shearwater (Puffinus puffinus) on Middle Lawn Island, Newfoundland was visited. Breeding was first confirmed in 1977 and by 1981, a minimum of 13 pairs laid eggs. In 2000, a complete assessment of all burrows was undertaken, and only 2 eggs were found; a third female had an egg in her oviduct. Based on female call rates, capture of birds, and offshore observations, the numbers of non-breeding shearwaters around Middle Lawn Island was comparable to the early 1980s, in the low 100s. The growth of a nearby large gull colony, changing marine ecosystems, and a short breeding season in the northwest Atlantic are possible explanations for why this colony has not become better established. Similar conditions could also be keeping the small Northern Fulmar (Fulmaris glacialis) and Common Black-headed Gull (Larus ridibundus) breeding populations in Atlantic Canada from expanding.
3858687|To assist land managers responsible for park management, we conducted a pilot study to examine small mammal assemblages at 7 riparian parks in suburban/urban landscapes and at 1 riparian site in mature forest, all located in central Pennsylvania. Species richness and diversity were lowest in parks containing manicured habitats and surrounded by human-modified landscapes. However, parks managed for passive recreation supported mammalian assemblages that were similar in richness and diversity to our mature riparian forest site. The mature riparian forest site contained four species of small mammals (eastern chipmunks [Tamias striatus], white-footed mice [Peromyscus leucopus], deer mice [P. maniculatus], and wood-land jumping mice [Napeozapus insignis]), and Spring Creek Nature Park, a park managed to promote natural and native habitats, contained five species (short-tailed shrews [Blarina brevicauda], eastern chipmunks, white-footed mice, meadow voles [Microtus pennsylvanicus], and meadow jumping mice [Zapus hudsonius]). In contrast, parks located in more urban settings and consisting primarily of mowed habitat contained only 1 or 2 species of small mammals. We did not capture non-native species in our study. Based upon this study, we recommend locating parks along streams or other natural corridors, leaving unmowed 10-15-m buffers along streams, and planting native trees along stream corridors in order to encourage diversity of small mammals in suburban and urban parks.
3858505|The flight activity of the apple leaf midge, Dasineura mali (Kieffer), was determined in the field and laboratory. Males and females began emerging at the onset of the photophase. In the field, delta-shaped traps baited with 6 virgin females caught males exclusively, with the most abundant catches on the ground as compared to those at 1 and 2 m. Most males were captured at 1100 hours and males remained in the vegetation under the trees throughout the day. Sweep netting revealed that conspecifics mate in the vegetation under orchard trees in the morning hours, and females move from the ground to the orchard canopy to oviposit at 1000 hours. Gas chromatographic-electroantennographic detection (GC-EAD) analyses indicated the presence of an electrophysiologically active compound in solid phase microextraction (SPME) effluvial collections and pheromone gland extractions from virgin females.
10.2307/3858471|We conducted the first systematic inventory of ant species richness in pitcher-plant bogs of Massachusetts. Twenty-six species were collected in 18 bogs during 1999 and 2000. We collected the bog-specialist Myrmica lobifrons for the first time in Massachusetts and found that it occurred in bogs from the Berkshire Mountains to Nantucket. Ant species composition in bogs displayed a nested subsets pattern, in which the species composition of a bog with few species was generally a subset of the species composition of bogs with more species. This pattern appears to result from different colonization histories of the different bogs. We tested whether ant species richness differed among bog types, ecological subregions, or geographic regions of the state (mainland, Cape Cod, Islands), and whether ant species richness was correlated with variables measured at each bog including: latitude, longitude, elevation, bog mat area; vegetation composition and the density of the carnivorous plant Sarracenia purpurea; and nutrient availability. Among Massachusetts bogs, species richness of ants was predicted best by tree species richness within bogs and by the concentration of ammonium in bog pore-water. Ant species richness was highest in bogs of the Connecticut River Valley and the Massachusetts-Rhode Island border. These are also areas identified by the Massachusetts BioMap project as core areas for biodiversity in the state.
3858686|Oryzomys palustris (marsh rice rat) and Microtus pennsylvanicus (meadow vole) cohabit coastal marshes in the mid-Atlantic US. Both were live-trapped for 23 months at two tidal marsh sites in Virginia to assess their demography near the margins of their distributions. In the presence of dense vegetation, population dynamics of the two species were seasonal and positively correlated, with densities declining through the winter. At the more sparsely vegetated site, densities of both species were lower, and densities of M. pennsylvanicus were negatively correlated with those of O. palustris. Patterns of reproduction differed between the species. O. palustris was reproductively most active in summer and least so in winter, whereas female M. pennsylvanicus decreased reproductive activity during summer.
10.2307/3858266|Five species of epiphytes were found associated with the basidiocarps of the wood-rotting fungus, T. versicolor. Four algae were identified, Hormidium sp., Stichococcus bacillaris, Chlorococcum sp., and Trebouxia sp., as well as one species of bacteria, Azotobacter chroococcum. Azotobacter is a nitrogen-fixing bacterium often associated with lichens, and may be a significant source of nitrogen for T. versicolor. Trebouxia, a genus of lichenized algae that is rarely found free living, is the most common epiphyte. Ultrastructural investigation of the generative hyphae of the upper surface of the basidiocarp reveals the presence of concentric bodies, which are cellular organelles primarily found in lichens. The common occurrence of Trebouxia and Azotobacter as epiphytes, and the occurrence of concentric bodies, suggest that the basidiocarps of T. versicolor have the potential to be lichenized.
60225653| We examined the growth, productivity, and turnover of sublittoral fringe populations of Laminaria longicruris in high- and low-flow habitats (headlands and bays, respectively) in Cobscook Bay during 1995 and 1996. We used the hole-punch technique, incorporating increases in length and width (area) to estimate frond growth. Regression analysis was used to predict biomass from frond area. Water temperature, salinity, and nutrients were measured monthly. Kelp tissue was analyzed to assess nutrient-growth relationships. Mean  SD monthly productivity at Bar Island (low-flow) ranged from 0.42  0.31 to 8.61  2.37 g dry <tex-math>$\text{m}^{-2}\text{day}^{-1}$</tex-math>. Productivity estimates for Mahar Point and Garnet Point (headlands) exhibited a lower and narrower range of values, 0.25 (n = 1) to 3.67  0.79 g dry <tex-math>$\text{m}^{-2}\text{day}^{-1}$</tex-math> and 0.46 (n = 1) to 5.82  2.27 g dry <tex-math>$\text{m}^{-2}\text{day}^{-1}$</tex-math>, respectively. The overall range of productivity estimates based on carbon was 0.08 (n = 1) to 2.58  0.71 g C <tex-math>$\text{m}^{-2}\text{day}^{-1}$</tex-math>. Growth in these fringe stands was comparable to kelps in general, but productivity was slightly lower, likely due to lower stand densities and, possibly, stress from aerial emergence during low tides. We estimated that 75 hectares of the Bay was in L. longicruris production yielding 3.34  10<sup>7</sup> g C year<sup>-1</sup>. 
10.2307/3858489|Five new specimens and 49 echolocation records (< 0.2% of all echolocation sequences recorded) identified as eastern pipistrelle, Pipistrellus subflavus (F. Cuvier) are documented in New Brunswick. Previously this bat was known in New Brunswick from a single specimen discovered over-wintering in a natural limestone cave. New records show the eastern pipistrelle confined to the Fundy coast of New Brunswick, but over-wintering in both natural caves and an abandoned graphite mine. In New Brunswick, where they have been recorded hibernating with congregations of Myotis species, eastern pipistrelles comprised less than 1.5% of the bats present. Pipistrelle echolocation sequences that are the first reports for the species outside winter roosting habitat in New Brunswick indicate a strong preference for feeding over water. Both echolocation sequences and specimen records suggest that the eastern pipistrelle is of very rare but regular occurrence in southern coastal New Brunswick. The species' provincial distribution may be influenced by the availability of caves and mines suitable for over-wintering.
25177102|To determine how Tsuga canadensis (eastern hemlock) decline caused by Adelges tsugae (hemlock woolly adelgid) affects bird communities in Pennsylvania, we surveyed breeding birds in hemlock and forested non-hemlock habitats in 2003 and 2004 at Fort Indiantown Gap, PA and monitored nesting Empidonax virescens (Acadian Flycatcher), a hemlock specialist in Pennsylvania. Of the nine species more abundant in hemlocks than other forested habitats, only two, the Acadian Flycatcher and Dendroica virens (Black-throated Green Warbler), were positively associated with living hemlocks. Contopus virens (Eastern Wood-pewee), Myiarchus crinitus (Great-crested Flycatcher), and Hylocichla mustelina (Wood Thrush) were negatively associated with the amount of living hemlocks and were apparently benefiting from the increased number of dead trees and canopy gaps associated with the adelgid infestation. Acadian Flycatcher nest sites had more living hemlocks and were less impacted by adelgid than random sites. Nest success did not differ by habitat variables. Initially, hemlock decline will negatively impact hemlock specialists while providing habitat for opportunistic species. Some specialist species might persist by shifting habitats, but long-term studies are needed.
41315964|We constructed an artificial nesting mound for Glyptemys insculpta (Wood Turtle) in the Great Swamp National Wildlife Refuge, NJ. The original nesting site was impacted by development and invasive plants. The new nesting mound was constructed from similar soil and was 100 m distant from the original site. The new mound was 50 m from stream habitat and in an old field where it received full sun for the entire day. The mound was 18 m long, 8 m wide, and had a maximum height of 1.5 m, with gently sloping sides. We encountered nest-searching female Wood Turtles on the impacted site during late May to early June for four years, 2007-2010. We carefully hand-carried females to the new nesting area and allowed them to choose whether or not to nest on the mound. We protected all nests from predators. Seventeen of 18 nests that were deposited and left on the nesting mound produced live hatchlings. Six clutches had 100% hatching success, with only one failing completely. At least nine different female Wood Turtles nested on the mound. One female returned on her own in three subsequent years, another returned on her own in one subsequent year, several were re-shown the mound in subsequent years, and one turtle found the mound and nested on it on her own. The nesting mound has produced 142 hatchling Wood Turtles over the four years. We suggest that it is possible to entice female turtles to nest in a new area and that when nesting resources are limited, construction and protection of nesting areas can be a useful conservation action.
4131012|Knowledge of the vertical variation of bark water storage capacity (BWSC) is essential in understanding the processes of throughfall and stemflow yield in forest ecosystems. Determination of vertical variation of BWSC is also necessary to understand microscale variations in moisture availability that affect the diversity and distribution of corticolous lichen and bryophyte communities on tree boles. This field note reports that BWSC of a tree bole of Pinus strobus L. (eastern white pine; 28.4 cm dbh, 22.5 m tall) differs substantially as a function of height above ground. BWSC of the bottom section of the tree bole (5.6 L m
41495803|The Ni hyperaccumulator Strepthanthus polygaloides (Brassicaceae) is one of a handful of Ni hyperaccumulators known from continental North America. Surveys have revealed four distinctive morphs of this species, relying primarily on floral traits (sepal color and shape): a purple sepal morph (P), a yellow sepal morph (Y), a morph in which sepals start yellow and mature to purple (Y/P), and a morph with light yellow undulate sepals (U). In this study, we raised plants from ten populations (five Y, three P, one Y/P, and one U) under uniform greenhouse conditions to determine if morphs varied in morphology and elemental concentrations when grown on Ni-amended potting soil in a common garden. Morphological data included measurements of leaf form (length, width, and degree of lobing) and plant size (height to first flower as they bolted in summer). Phenology was documented by noting flowering timing of plants. Elemental concentrations of plants were also determined for nine elements (Ca, Cu, Fe, K, Mg, Mn, Ni, P, and Zn). All morphological/phenological traits measured varied significantly between at least some morphs. The U and Y/P morphs were larger than Y and P morphs, with larger leaves as well. Leaves of U morph plants had wide sinuses and shallow lobes, whereas Y/P plants had narrow sinuses and long narrow lobes. P morph plants were shortest in stature, with the smallest leaves. Morphs also varied significantly in concentrations of all elements except Fe. All populations hyperaccumulated Ni, but the P morph contained significantly greater Ni levels than the other three morphs. The P morph also had more Mg, and less Mn and P, than the other morphs. The U morph had more K and Zn, but less Ca, than the other morphs. Principal components analysis revealed all four morphs to be distinctive from one another, and also suggested both morphological/phenological and elemental differences between Y morph populations along a north-south gradient. We conclude that there is considerable genetic divergence between morphs. If additional information shows that morphs are reproductively isolated, then these morphs may require taxonomic subdivision.
3858379|Sciurids have been poorly studied in the Acadian forests of eastern North America, yet they represent common and ecologically important members of the forest community in the region. I gathered data on capture success and general life history traits of northern flying squirrels (Glaucomys sabrinus) and red squirrels (Tamiasciurus hudsonicus) in mature forest at Fundy National Park in southern New Brunswick, Canada. Squirrels were live-trapped over 14 sampling periods between 1999 and 2001. Flying squirrel capture success was considerably greater in summer and fall than in winter and spring, while red squirrels were caught more often in spring and summer than fall and winter. Capture success for both species was positively correlated with maximum daily temperature. Breeding seasons of both species began with male testes developing in winter and spring, followed by female pregnancy and lactation in late spring and summer. Flying squirrels may have also had an additional fall breeding season in the second year of the study. My data also suggest that G. sabrinus is smaller in eastern North America compared with western North America, where most data pertaining to this species has been gathered. There was no sexual dimorphism apparent in either flying squirrels or red squirrels.
27744578|Ectoparasitism of nesting birds is known to impact reproduction for many species including cavity-nesting swallows and ground-nesting colonial seabirds. Little information is available from wading birds (e.g., herons, egrets, ibises). We documented skin-eating dermestid beetle abundance in 261 wading-bird nests in seven heronries located in northeastern US estuaries during 19912000. Beetles were collected after fledglings were no longer using the nest. We examined all twigs and debris for larval and adult beetles, and excavated holes in twigs to count pupating insects. In addition, nest size was evaluated. Dermestes nidum (dermestid beetle) larvae were prominent members of nest faunal communities in all estuaries. We detected no evidence that beetle abundance correlated with wading-bird species, nest reuse, nest substrate species, or nest-collection date. Regression analysis and partial correlation analysis identified nest size, colony, and year as factors showing a significant relationship with beetle abundance after accounting for all known factors.
60225651|Cobscook Bay is a shallow, biologically rich, geographically complex, macrotidal estuary located in eastern-most Maine. Seasonal measurements of light attenuation and microalgal biomass as water column phytoplankton and subtidal microphytobenthos were used to estimate primary production using a light and chlorophyll model. The Bay was found to be a high nutrient/low chlorophyll estuary characterized by intense tidal mixing. Seasonal patterns of biomass and productivity indicated a single peak in mid- to late summer that resulted from the growth limiting effects of water column temperature in spring and light availability in fall. Spatial patterns indicated elevated standing stocks in areas where the residence time of waters in the Inner Bay increased, allowing growth to exceed export due to tidal flushing. Site to site comparisons of average water column phytoplankton and subtidal microphytobenthic production demonstrated that suspended microalgae account for only one-tenth of the microalgal productivity of Cobscook Bay since attached microalgae can avoid advective processes and adapt to changes in light availability at short time scales. This example of a high nutrient/low chlorophyll estuary is used to reevaluate the concept of "new" production since nitrate is never limiting and ammonium is present at high concentrations throughout the year.
10.2307/3858348|Two recent nesting records for the American oystercatcher, Haematopus palliatus, establish new range limits range for this species along the Atlantic coast. In 1997, one pair of American oystercatchers was observed nesting on Green Island, Maine and another pair was observed in Clark's Harbour on Cape Sable Island, Nova Scotia. Both nests were monitored throughout the breeding season. Two of three chicks that were hatched on Green Island were believed to have fledged. However, the three chicks hatched on Cape Sable Island were believed to have been depredated by gulls nesting on the island. These are the first confirmed breeding records for the American oystercatcher at both of these locations and the nest in Nova Scotia is the first confirmed breeding record for Canada in this century.
10.2307/3858491|A small benthic juvenile scrawled cowfish, Acanthostracion quadricornis (Linnaeus 1758), is reported from the Hudson River. A description of this life stage is provided and the specimen is identified as a scrawled cowfish based on several morphological characters.
41315948|Human activities have increased acid deposition throughout the Ohio River Valley due to the large number of coal-fired power-generating facilities. The long-term effects of chronic acid deposition can include a decrease in soil pH, loss of soil fertility, and a decrease in base saturation all of which can reduce forest productivity. Dysart Woods, a remnant old-growth, mixed mesophytic forest in eastern Ohio, has experienced a decrease in soil pH from 5.0 in 1971 to 4.6 in 1997, which may be due to chronic acid deposition. The objective of this study was to utilize a long-term study to evaluate how soil quality has changed due to chronic acid deposition. To meet the study objectives, a variety of soil chemical properties (pH, base saturation, C, N, P, etc.) were measured from surface soil within two stands of opposing aspect at Dysart Woods within the unglaciated Allegheny Plateau. Because soil pH correlates strongly with other soil chemical properties, we used pH data from 1971 to estimate how soil quality has changed over time. Mean soil pH from the south-facing stand was 5.0 in 1971, 4.6 in 1997, and 4.3 in 2007. While soil pH was not measured in the north-facing stand in 1971, pH was 4.6 in 1997 and 4.7 in 2007. Using changes in pH to estimate past soil properties, our results suggest that available base cations in the south-facing stand have been reduced from 12 to 6 (cmol c kg" 1 ), with a 50% reduction in base saturation since 1971. Considering that both stands receive the same amount of acid deposition due to their close proximity to each other, results raise an interesting question: Are unglaciated Allegheny Plateau south-facing soils more susceptible to the effects of acid deposition than north-facing soils?
27744558|Salt marsh ecosystems on Cape Cod, MA have exhibited substantial changes within the last 60+ years. Analyses of aerial photographs dating back to 1947 reveals that extensive marsh area loss and alterations in tidal creek structure have occurred where vegetation along the edges of tidal creeks and mosquito ditches in the low marsh has declined or disappeared. Where edge vegetation has not been lost, and where major changes in tidal inlet size have not resulted in flows that cause erosion and bank slumping, marsh area and creek structure has remained very stable. The extent of high-marsh vegetation in virtually all systems has diminished greatly, particularly since the 1980s, with the seaward edge of this zone rapidly retreating in a landward direction. In several systems, this has resulted in high marsh being replaced by barren mudflat. In others, low-marsh advancement has been able to keep pace with high-marsh retreat. These processes are discussed within the context of various biotic and abiotic factors that are the likely agents of change.
43287127|Disseminated neoplasia, a diffuse tumor of the hemic system, is characterized in many bivalve mollusks by hemolymph containing 1-100% mitotic hemocytes. Little is known about the onset and chronic distribution of neoplasia in populations of Mya arenaria (Soft-shell Clam), though studies have reported episodic exposure to environmental contaminants or an infectious agent as a potential cause of this disease. Here we provide the first set of continuous data on neoplasia in Soft-shell Clams, from three sites in New England where sediments have been characterized regarding their granulometry, composition, contaminants, and clam densities. When correlating sediment characteristics to terminal neoplasia (76-100% neoplastic or rounded, unattached hemocytes), New Bedford Harbor, MA, which is the most contaminated site, had the highest frequency of treminal neoplasia (maximum of 9.49%  0.78 SE), and the most pristine site, Ogunquit, ME, displayed the lowest frequencies (maximum of 0.47%  0.05 SE). Correlations of frequency of neoplasia to known environmental contaminants also suggests that fully neoplastic individuals were found only at sites of increased levels of heavy metals, PCBs, and PAHs. In addition, we documented the highest frequency of clams with terminal neoplasia from New Bedford Harbor in December (9.49%  0.78 SE) when seawater temperatures were low, and the lowest frequency in July (1.08  0.4 SE) when seawater temperatures were highest. These results may indicate vulnerability of neoplastic clams to seasonal increases in environmental temperature and resulting oxidative stress. Based on shell measurements and a theoretical mathematical age model (which correlates susceptibility to neoplasia with age and sexual maturity), we suggest that the Soft-shell Clam is most susceptible to this disease between one and two years of age (9.5% frequency at 1 year, 22.25% incidence at 1.5 years, and 57.14% incidence at 2 years).
25177141|The concept of a lake as an isolated unit is a central theme in research and management of freshwater systems. Support is based on direct observations of lake communities. Studies undertaken in the last several decades lend tacit support because the methods used in both research and management often do not question the underlying notion that lake communities are essentially isolated. In a study of fish assemblages in interconnected lakes, we noted movement of tagged fish among lakes. We also found that species introduced to one lake were later captured in neighboring lakes. We found that fish species in lake assemblages did not differ from those in inlet and outlet stream assemblages; although relative abundance varied, species richness and composition did not. This finding suggests that fish assemblages in lakes are not isolated. Rather, immigration and emigration from streams and other lakes occurs. Although few individuals migrated to new lakes, any movement can affect population structure (e.g., through recolonization, gene flow) and management goals (e.g., spread of disease). Consequently, we suggest that methods commonly used to assess fish assemblages in lakes and the concept of the lake as a management unit may need to be reconsidered. Rather than be treated as isolated populations, fishes in lake communities may be better treated as a watershed-wide metapopulation.
10.2307/3858359|Short-fringed or tyrol knapweed, Centaurea dubia (Asteraceae) is an invasive plant of fields and roadsides in the eastern United States. Insects from the plant's native Eurasian range have been introduced into North America in an attempt to control the spread of related Centaurea species. One of these biological control agents, Urophora quadrifasciata (Diptera: Tephritidae), a picture-winged seed-head fly, has dispersed throughout northeastern North America. This study examined the response of this seed-head fly to a nontarget host's (C. dubia) patch characteristics and seed production in an old field. Ninety percent of all stems contained at least one seed-head attacked by U. quadrifasciata and 59% of C. dubia seed-heads were infested. Neither location in the field, plant height, nor number of stems per patch influenced U. quadrifasciata numbers within seed-heads. Number of seeds per seed-head was influenced by location and patch size but not stem height.
10.2307/3858709|The Katahdin arctic butterfly, Oeneis polixenes katahdin Newc. (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae), is found only on the tableland of Mount Katahdin in Baxter State Park and has been nominated for endangered status in Maine. Collection of living organisms is prohibited in BSP without special permit from the park director. In 1992, US Fish and Wildlife Service agents seized 37 Katahdin arctic specimens in the course of an extensive investigation of a three-person poaching ring that specialized in protected butterfly species. The incident highlighted the need for park management to revisit the scientific collection permitting policy for researchers and the need for increased patrol efforts on behalf of certain species. Increased citizen awareness of the vulnerability of rare species in today's acquisitive culture has generated a healthy dialogue between entomologists, resource managers and enforcement agencies.
3858388|Three Snapping Turtle (Chelydra serpentina Linnaeus) hatchlings and one Wood Turtle (Clemmys insculpta LeConte) hatchling appear to have overwintered in their nests in southwestern Vermont and were detected emerging in the spring of 2002. These species have not been previously reported overwintering terrestrially in Vermont and rarely do so in the northern portion of their range. The dry conditions during 2001, coupled with the mild winter of 2001/2002, may have provided unusual conditions that allowed successful overwintering in the nest.
10.2307/3858392|An Impact Source Determination method, used to identify point and nonpoint sources of impacts to stream water quality on the basis of benthic macroinvertebrates, was examined for concordance with impairment sources inferred from chemical and physical site characteristics, watershed characteristics, and biomonitoring results collected from 26 sites in the Hudson River Basin during 1993-94. Most classifications agreed with the resulting interpretations; site locations on Canonical Correspondence Analysis triplots corresponded with interpretation of environmental gradients as (1) overall pollution including organic enrichment and contaminants from point and nonpoint sources, (2) nonpoint nutrients from both agricultural and urban sources, and (3) sediment and suspended organic carbon from agricultural runoff. High-level taxonomic resolution was important in identifying the environmental gradients, and may be necessary for impairment source identification.
27744591|Edge created through forest fragmentation can have significant impacts on the avian community, increasing predation and nest-parasitism rates and changing species richness and abundance patterns near edges. Although considerable research has demonstrated edge effects during the breeding season, few studies have considered how proximity to an edge affects migrant communities in stopover habitat. We studied bird communities in southern Pennsylvania (Adams, Chester, and Montgomery counties) to determine if richness and abundance of migrants were impacted by edges during spring and fall 19992001. The three categories of study sites were north-facing forest-herbaceous edges, south-facing forest-herbaceous edges, and interior forest (&gt;300 m from an edge); sites were located in Gettysburg National Military Park-Eisenhower National Historic Site (GETT-EISE) and Valley Forge National Historical Park. During fall migration, Nearctic-Neotropic migrant species richness was significantly (P = 0.03) higher in interior forest compared to edges, whereas species richness of other guilds was not significantly different among edge types. During spring migration, richness of both permanent residents (P &lt; 0.001) and temperate migrants (P &lt; 0.001) were higher at both edges compared to interior sites. Only two species, Dendroica caerulescens (Black-throated Blue Warbler) (P = 0.03 during fall, P = 0.002 during spring) and Vireo olivaceus (Red-eyed Vireo) (P = 0.03 during fall, P = 0.05 during spring), showed differences among edge types during both spring and fall migration. Although the parks differed in amount of forest and in landscape composition, differences in richness and abundance patterns of birds between the parks also may be based on active management of Odocoileus virginianus Zimmerman (White-tailed Deer) at GETT-EISE that has resulted in vegetation differences. Overall, we found differential impacts of fragmentation (edge) on guilds and during different migratory periods, illustrating the importance of considering habitat use during each season individually for conservation of migratory songbirds.
40664844|We monitored return rates of 324 color-banded Ammodramus savannarum (Grasshopper Sparrow), 138 Passerculus sandwichensis (Savannah Sparrow), and 49 Dolichonyx oryzivorus (Bobolink) on mowed and unmowed areas on a reclaimed surface mine during seven breeding seasons. We observed 61 returns among Grasshopper Sparrows, 40 returns among Savannah Sparrows, and 11 returns among Bobolinks. Grasshopper Sparrows and Savannah Sparrows returned to mowed and unmowed areas at about equal rates (21 vs. 18% and 26 vs. 31%, respectively), while Bobolinks returned to unmowed areas at a higher rate than mowed areas (28% vs. 17% respectively). When hatching-year birds were excluded, overall return rates increased slightly for Grasshopper Sparrows and Bobolinks (19 to 20% and 22 to 23%, respectively), but more substantially for Savannah Sparrows (from 29 to 36%). Sixteen of 51 returning Grasshopper Sparrows (31%), 12 of 27 Savannah Sparrows (44%), and 2 of 10 Bobolinks (20%) were observed during multiple years. These observations support previous findings that reclaimed surface mines provide suitable nesting habitat for these species. Early-season mowing did not appear to influence the return rates of Grasshopper Sparrows or Savannah Sparrows, although it may have influenced Bobolink returns.
41495815|Pedologists and ecologists generally consider peridotite and serpentinite together as common serpentine soils or substrates. A detailed survey in the Klamath Mountains, CA, with separate soil map units on peridotite and serpentinite revealed appreciable differences in geomorphic and pdologie features between these types of ultramafic rocks. Slopes tend to be steeper on peridotite and the soils redder. More Alfisols (Luvisols) were found on peridotite, and more Mollisols (Phaeozems) on serpentinite. Very shallow soils (7% of the area), which are mostly Mollisols and Entisols (Leptosols), are more common on serpentinite. Barrens are commonly fragmental colluvium (talus) on peridotite and erodible, slightly to moderately stony summits and slopes on serpentinite. The most obvious vegetation differences related to parent material are on very shallow and shallow soils, with more coniferous trees (Pinus jeffreyi [Jeffrey Pine] > Calocedrus decurrens [Incense Cedar] > Pseudotsuga menziesii [Douglas Fir]) and Quercus dur ata (Leather Oak) on peridotite, and more Ceanothus cuneatus (Buckbrush) and Vulpia microstachys (Annual Fescue) on serpentinite soils.
25177090|Eighty-one species of butterflies and two-hundred and thirty-seven species of moths were identified from Fort Indiantown Gap, a National Guard training facility in south-central Pennsylvania. The Lepidoptera found here include the last remaining population of Speyeria idalia idalia (eastern regal fritillary), as well as the rare Callophrys irus (frosted elfin), Hesperia leonardus (Leonard's skipper), Datana ranaeceps (hand-maid moth), Zale sp. 1 nr. lunifera (Pine Barrens zale), and Anisota stigma (spiny oakworm moth). This habitat has a large and diverse Lepidoptera fauna, most likely due to periodic disturbance in some areas, conservation efforts to maintain native grassland, and a diverse plant community.
41810153|This paper documents the median spring arrival date of 101 species of Maine migratory breeding birds in 2010 compared to their normal arrival from 1994-2011. The spring of 2010 was uniformly warmer for March, April, and May (monthly departures of 2.0 to 4.0 C above the mean value). The 101 species showed a strong response to the warm spring, with 86 species arriving earlier, only 12 arriving later, and 3 showing no difference in arrival date from the 17-year median. The strongest response was by leafgleaning birds; all 30 species arrived earlier in 2010.
10.2307/3858654|The contiguous United States population of Canada lynx (Lynx canadensis Kerr) is listed as threatened under the federal Endangered Species Act. However, the historic distribution of lynx in the Northeast is poorly understood. We used museum records, bibliographic records, and interviews to reconstruct the past distribution of lynx in Maine, which is at the current southern limit of the species' distribution in the eastern United States. We found a total of 118 records, representing at least 509 lynx in Maine. Lynx were observed throughout Maine, 1833-1912, with the exception of coastal areas. After 1913, lynx were most common in the forests of western and northern Maine, and absent to rare along the coast, but had not returned to southern Maine by 1999. Thirty-nine kittens representing at least 21 litters were distributed throughout northern and western Maine, 1864-1999. Populations apparently fluctuated, and in some years 200-300 lynx were harvested in Maine. Prior to the 1900s, lynx were much more widely distributed in the Northeast, ranging from Pennsylvania north into Quebec. Because Canada lynx have had a long presence in northern New England, and at times were relatively common, this species merits serious consideration in conservation planning in this region.
3858293|The Eurasian Lythrum salicaria is invading wetlands throughout North America. Our study sought to (1) document the extent of L. salicaria invasion along the lower West Branch of the Susquehanna River in central Pennsylvania and (2) assess the correlates of L. salicaria abundance including associated species and environmental/edaphic characteristics. We documented that L. salicaria is well established on the West Branch of the Susquehanna River, but only in that portion within the Ridge and Valley Province. Multiple analyses indicated that L. salicaria is associated with open-canopied, hydric sites with nutrient-rich, clay and/or silt soils. The vulnerability of a West Branch site to invasion by L. salicaria is best assessed by the presence of plant associates including Eleocharis obtusa, Phalaris arundinacea, and others.
41315952|Acadia National Park (ANP) is a non-continuous conglomerate of park lands interspersed with private lands, which is located mainly on Mount Desert Island, ME. Surveys of fishes in ANP have largely ignored or under-sampled most of the streams on the island. Reported here are the results of a 2009 survey that sampled freshwater fishes in 43 streams flowing through Park boundaries. Overall, 19 species were collected, and many were recorded from specific streams for the first time. Notemigonus crysoleucas (Golden Shiner) was the most widely distributed species (47% of surveyed streams), while Pimephales promelas (Fathead Minnow) was recorded from ANP for the first time as a recent bait-bucket introduction. This survey provides an updated baseline for ANP stream fishes and will be used to identify streams for restoration and measure the impacts of future environmental perturbations.
3858631|Bear oak bushes (Quercus ilicifolia) have an inside-outside architecture where there is a set of leaves partially or completely concealed within the bush by an exterior set of leaves. We examine the impact of this architecture on micro-habitat differences that are important to insect herbivores. Furthermore, we document the patterns of usage by plant-feeding insects on the inside and outside of the bush in different areas of the pine barrens of Long Island, NY. We show that there is more leaf-chewing damage and more galls of the Cynipid wasp, Amphibilops ilicifolia, on the outside of the plant. This inside-outside pattern for leaf-chewing damage is consistent across different sites, though the degree of difference between the inside and outside varies by location. We suggest that the observed herbivory pattern may be generated by differential larval performance on the inside vs. the outside leaves, differential ovipositional choice between the inside vs. the outside of the bush, or both.
25177128|The behavior of the marine dragonfly, Erythrodiplax berenice (Seaside Dragonlet), was studied over two summers at Weskeag Marsh, South Thomaston, ME. These dragonflies are lethargic, spending over 99% of their time perched on the culm of a salt marsh plant. No evidence of territorial behavior was found. Females oviposit while in tandem in algal mats on the surface of salt-water pannes. These dragonflies perch preferentially into the wind, presumably to aid in providing lift on take-off.
60225650|Salmon aquaculture has been a prominent feature of Cobscook Bay since the late 1980s, providing jobs in an economically depressed area of the State of Maine. Rearing finfish in moored floating pens is not without environmental consequences, however, with waste feed, feces, and dissolved nutrients discharged directly to surrounding waters. Near-field benthic effects have been well studied in Cobscook Bay, but far-field effects of nutrient enrichment from salmon aquaculture have not. Via two independent indirect methods, this paper estimates the amount of nitrogen and phosphorus discharged by salmon farms in Cobscook Bay. Results suggest that between 1995 and 1996, during the Cobscook Bay research program, salmon aquaculture contributed an annual load of about 360 metric tons of nitrogen and 85 metric tons phosphorus to Cobscook Bay. Compared to the already high nutrient flux from sources outside Cobscook Bay, we conclude it is unlikely the incremental contribution from aquaculture is measurably enhancing planktonic primary production. However, we acknowledge the need for further study on benthic macroalgae.
4499909|The ability to detect and monitor exotic invasive plants is likely to vary depending on the sampling method employed. Methods with strong qualitative thoroughness for species detection often lack the intensity necessary to monitor vegetation change. Four sampling methods (systematic plot, stratified-random plot, modified Whittaker, and timed meander) in hemlock and red oak forests in the Delaware Water Gap National Recreation Area were compared for their ability to detect and monitor understory exotic invasive plant species. The timed-meander method best detected exotic invasive plants and documented richness. The stratified-random method was similar to the timed-meander method in terms of detection of exotic invasives and defining richness, but also provided estimates of species abundances and diversity. An initial combination of the timed-meander and stratified-random sampling designs followed by monitoring with the stratified-random method is suggested as a standard approach.
43287130|Management strategies for Odocoileus virginianus (White-tailed Deer) often use changes in body weight as an indicator of population health and density. Annual fluctuations in White-tailed Deer age-sex classes are influenced by numerous environmental variables. We analyzed 1989-2009 deer harvest data from Virginia's Deer Management Assistance Program (DMAP), consisting of 15,622 deer in the Northern Piedmont of Virginia. We used Pearson's correlation and t-tests to examine impacts of annual fluctuations in precipitation, days with snow accumulation 1 inch, temperature, and acorn mast on average weights (kg) of current-year, 1-year-lag, and 2-year-lag fawn, and yearling age-sex classes. Of the variables we examined, seasonal precipitation appears to be the most significant environmental factor influencing White-tailed Deer body weight in the Northern Piedmont of Virginia. When using deer weight fluctuations as an indicator in management plans, managers should consider the influence of seasonal precipitation specific to their geographic region or management unit. Managers in the Northern Piedmont of Virginia should continue to use changes in average deer weights as an indicator of population density and habitat quality due to the stability of weights in response to regional environmental stochastic events.
25177084|Artificial nesting islands, or rafts, are deployed in Gavia immer (Common Loon) territories to lessen the incidence of nest failures due to mammalian predation and water-level fluctuations. The effectiveness of this management tool has been demonstrated in other studies; however, improper construction and deployment can result in lowered nesting success. Despite widespread use of rafts, detailed construction plans and a protocol for deployment are lacking. We present the raft construction and deployment protocol currently followed by organizations specializing in loon management and research in New Hampshire and Maine, and discuss emerging concerns related to management using rafts.
3858330|Bonasa umbellus (Ruffed Grouse) are one of many wildlife species that require early successional forest and whose populations have declined as New England forests have matured. We studied habitat selection and home range size of Ruffed Grouse in oak-hickory forests in Rhode Island to determine the importance of different habitat types for grouse. Home range size did not significantly differ by age or gender (mean = 103  24.91 ha). Habitat selection was assessed at two spatial scales: home range and study area scale. At the study area scale, grouse selected early successional forest, mixed deciduous-conifer stands, deciduous forest, and forested roads, whereas grouse avoided evergreen forests and developed areas. Given that grouse selected early successional forests at a relatively large spatial scale, we suggest that the conservation and restoration of early successional forested habitats will benefit Ruffed Grouse and many other associated wildlife.
43287096|Monitoring programs using benthic macroinvertebrates are well-used and expanding to areas where communities are species-poor. The sensitivity of these depauperate communities to environmental conditions, however, is not well known. In this study, impoverished benthic invertebrate communities were compared from three climatically and geologically distinct regions of Newfoundland. Differences in community structure were evident among regions at both the genus and family level. These results indicate that widely dispersing and depauperate macroinvertebrate communities can be sufficiently diverse to respond to regional variation in environmental conditions and therefore remain promising for detecting anthropogenic-induced changes.
41495835|The presence of inland grasslands on the Atlantic coastal plain, including an extensive "tall-grass prairie" at Hempstead Plains on Long Island, NY, remote from the "prairie peninsula", has never been explained. In 2008, surveys of Homoptera: Auchenorrhyncha on prairie grasses were conducted from Long Island north to Maine. Multiple prairie-endemic species were found on glades from Rhode Island to New Hampshire, including flightless Cercopidae found only on sand plains. The ranges of 12 species were compared to those of another 50 Cercopidae, Cicadellidae, and Caliscelidae specializing on 15 genera of grasses found in tall-grass prairies. Most support evidence that sandadapted prairie grasses constitute the easternmost extent of the prairie peninsula that could have come eastward to glaciated New England by following recent glacial moraines before forests re-established themselves in the area 11,000-9000 years ago. This periglacial ecosystem was distinct from a grassland ecosystem in the southeastern states that expanded northwards to Long Island and Cape Cod, MA.
3858384|The introduction of the rusty crayfish, Orconectes rusticus, has large effects on freshwater communities by displacing native crayfish species and altering macroinvertebrate communities. We used laboratory studies of aggression, shelter use, and feeding to examine the relationship between O. rusticus and a crayfish native to the Northeast, Orconectes limosus, along with these species' consumption of native bivalves. Orconectes rusticus dominated O. limosus in aggression trials, and shelter trials showed that dominant crayfish obtained shelter over subordinate crayfish. Both species of crayfish consumed freshwater mussels (Unionidae) and fingernail clams (Sphaeriidae), preferring prey of smaller size and those that were not buried. These findings suggest that the invasion of O. rusticus may pose a threat to native crayfish and the already threatened bivalves of the Northeast.
41315933|Deciduous leaf litter is often a primary source of energy at the base of the food web in seasonal woodland ponds (e.g., vernal or autumnal pools), which are common in the northeastern United States. It is therefore important to understand how leaf diet affects growth of detritivores, such as the caddisfly Limnephilus indivisus Walker, that feed almost exclusively on submerged plant matter in seasonal pond systems. Growth may relate to how rapidly a caddisfly is able to complete its larval development and pupate, and hence its ability to survive in small ponds with short hydroperiods. Growth is also related to the maximum size the larva achieves. In many organisms, attaining a larger size conveys several distinct advantages: larger individuals typically have higher survival rates and increased fecundity, and hence greater fitness compared to smaller conspecifics or competing sympatric species. To assess how leaf diet influences the growth of larvae of L. indivisus, we conducted a controlled experiment to test how different leaf diets influenced larval growth. The leaf diet experiment was set up as follows: Treatment 1: Acer rubrum (Red Maple), Treatment 2: Quercus spp. (oak), and Treatment 3: Red Maple and oak. L. indivisus that were fed oak leaves or a mix of oak and Red Maple leaves grew significantly larger than larvae fed Red Maple leaves only. In Treatment 3, the caddisfly was observed more frequently on the oak leaf compared to the Red Maple leaf. Although L. indivisus selected oak leaves more often during the experiment, oak leaves were less abundant than maple leaves at our study site. We hypothesize that the oak leaves provide more nutrients to L. indivisus due to a combination of physical, biological, and chemical properties which results in more larval growth.
10.2307/3858343|This paper provides details of the distribution and study of Odonata in the state of Maine, based on a comprehensive review of literature, public collections, private holdings, and the results of recent surveys. It is the first summary of the subject in over fifty years, and its data provide the baseline for the planned 5-year volunteer field survey of odonates in Maine. As a result of the review 11 species are added to the state list: the damselfly Enallagma recurvatum, and the dragonflies Aeshna mutata, Nasiaeshna pentacantha, Arigomphus furcifer, Gomphus descriptus, G. quadricolor, G. vastus, Stylurus amnicola, S. notatus, Neurocordulia sp. nov. and Perithemis tenera, bringing that list up to 155 species. Distribution to township level and flight periods for all species, and geographical and seasonal distribution of past survey effort in the state are reviewed. Illustrations and notes on 26 currently state-listed species are appended.
4130727|The complex subject-matter of the 21st century world presents an enormous challenge to a discipline-based scientific system. Transdisciplinarity is demanded; it goes beyond interdisciplinarity and focuses both on the relevance of research to the problem at hand and on the feasibility of conducting and implementing it. Problem areas in which different sectors of society and academia may make effective contributions to include new technologies like genetic engineering, biotechnologies, energy, mobility, and nutrition; the creation, organization, and distribution of welfare and resources; human health, age, urban and regional development, and North-South cooperation; new modes of learning, new social systems and decision-making processes; and environmental issues like climate, biodiversity, soil, water, air, recycling, and waste. Real-world problems determine the kind of action to be taken and not, or at least to a distinctly lesser degree, the competence or the instruments available at any given time. Transdisciplinary research adopts an integrative approach to identifying such problems and working towards solutions. Industry, business, public administration, non-governmental organizations, and consulting firms all possess know-how which may be as important to developing new solutions as the knowledge generated and collected by universities or other scientific institutions. Thus, transdisciplinarity is a vital means of appropriately confronting many of the challenges of the present century. It also promises better and quicker solutions at lower costs, since its value lies not only in its potential for efficiently solving real-world problems but also in its ability to identify such problems at an early stage. It is the purpose of the present contribution to show, by way of example, how Alexander von Humboldt, who received his education in a time when the modern clear-cut distinction of science and art did not yet exist, aimed at an inter- and transdisciplinary comprehension of his World, and how his ideas became implemented in the second half of the past century in the form of application-oriented long-term ecosystem research.
40959924|Crayfishes function as both ecosystem engineers and keystone species, and they serve as the trophic linkage between benthic organisms and fish predators. Because crayfish behavior, physiology, and growth are controlled by temperature, thermal differences among habitats may have important implications for crayfishes and the ecosystems they inhabit. To investigate the association between crayfish and temperature, we measured thermal preferences of 3 crayfish species in lab experiments (2007), recorded summer water temperatures at 9 sites (July 1-August 9, 2008), and trapped crayfishes at these same sites in northern Michigan. Orconectes rusticus (non-indigenous) preferred nearly 1 C warmer water (22 C) than Orconectes virilis and Orconectes propinquus. Crayfishes inhabited sites with similar temperatures. These sites had average summer temperatures ranging from 21-23 C. Sites without crayfish were on average 7 C colder than sites with crayfish. Thus, crayfish thermal preferences were closely correlated with average summer water temperatures across aquatic habitats.
41495827|This study examined woody vegetation, edaphic factors, bedrock geochemistry, petrography, and outcrop structure to evaluate some of the community-structuring factors in an ultramafic terrain of Maryland. Analyzing the dynamic nature of combined geological and ecological processes can detect correlative relationships between factors that are typically considered as independent such as tectonically driven bedrock fracturing and ecological community interaction. This study provides evidence for structural variation in fracture density of bedrock as a partial control on tree species distribution in an ultramafic woodland/forest ecosystem. Increases in the number of bedrock fractures correlates negatively with plot-level volumetric soil moisture. Additionally, the degree of serpentinization of the ultramafic parent material results in compositional variation in Ca, Mg, and Ni of parent materials and soils. The combination of these factors provides a significant level of control on the distribution of xeric tree species.
10.2307/3858671|Construction of the Petitcodiac River Causeway in 1968 converted 21 km of macrotidal (tidal amplitude > 8 m) brackish-water estuary into a shallow impoundment. The ecological value of the freshwater impoundment was low, when judged by criteria of temporal stability, uniqueness, conservation of native species, and level of disturbance. By interfering with migrations, the causeway dam eliminated or greatly reduced the populations of most diadromous fishes, including a large population of the now-endangered Inner Bay of Fundy stock of Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar). Loss of the host fish for the parasitic glochidial stage resulted in extirpation of the dwarf wedgemussel (Alasmidonta heterodon) from Canada. Benthic and planktonic communities of the impoundment were depauperate, and typical of a disturbed ecosystem. Most species were of marine/estuarine origin, or belong to freshwater groups with rapid dispersal. Illegally introduced warm-water fishes flourished in the impoundment, presumably replacing the native species.
41495826|Root ultrastructure and histochemistry of Ni-hyperaccumulating and nonhyperaccumulating genotypes of Senecio coronatus were compared using transmission electron and light microscopy. Distinct groups of inner cortical cells in the Nihyperaccumulator had an organelle-rich cytoplasm, while indistinct groups of these cells in the non-hyperaccumulator had few organelles. The inner cortical-cell groups and adjacent endodermis in both genotypes appeared to be sites for the synthesis of an alkaloid which was produced more abundantly in the Ni-hyperaccumulator. Casparian bands in exodermal cells were better defined in the non-hyperaccumulator, suggesting a more efficient barrier for exclusion of Ni. Results are discussed in relation to the differential uptake of Ni by the genotypes and ultrastructural aspects of alkaloid production.
27744547|We report several cases in which Gordionus lineatus (Horsehair Worm) (Nematomorpha) parasitizes the diplopod Cambala annulata (Myriapoda, Diplopoda) in Ohio. Diplopods as host for nematomorphs in North America have previously only briefly been mentioned. This report is the first host record for a Nearctic Gordionus species. Gordionus lineatus is also a new record for Ohio. Though the sample size is small, the prevalence may be high (50%). Myriapods appear to survive the parasitization. As Cambala annulata is likely to be herbivorous, pathways of infection with nematomorphs are discussed.
41810141|Old-growth forests are rare and of conservation concern in Maritime Canada. A variety of methods have been proposed to identify old-growth forests including structural measurements and lichen surveys. Frequency and abundance of Sphaerophorus globosus (Coral Lichen), was measured in 6 old-growth and 6 mature second-growth coniferous forests in Nova Scotia. Total abundance (P = 0.013) and the tree frequency occurrence (P = 0.005) were significantly greater in old-growth forests compared with mature second growth in paired t-tests. We propose the abundance and frequency of occurrence of the easily identifiable lichen Sphaerophorus globosus as an indicator of old-growth forests. Forests with at least 25% of trees having Sphaerophorus globosus growing on them, or meeting the criteria of at least 50 trees/ha with dbh >40 cm and more than 25% of trees with Sphaerophorus globosus, should be studied further as potential candidates for being assigned old-growth forest status.
10.2307/3858563|A specimen of the long-tailed shrew, Sorex dispar, was collected from a new site in Colchester County, Nova Scotia on August 2, 1996. Prior to this study there were two documented sites for Sorex dispar in Nova Scotia, both within the Wentworth River Valley, Cumberland County. The capture of a single specimen during the present study represents a provincial range extension of approximately 16 km to the southwest and suggests a distribution along the entire south side of the Cobequid Mountains. Habitat characteristics for the three Nova Scotian sites are compared with previous capture sites in New Brunswick and the eastern United States.
10.2307/3858262|We report the results of all readily available inventories of wintering bats in Vermont. Surveys at 23 hibernacula were compiled from the literature and unpublished data of numerous biologists and cavers. The earliest Vermont records date back to 1934. Only five hibernacula were systematically surveyed for more than 45 years. Despite data limitations, several trends have emerged. Since the 1930s, wintering populations of Myotis sodalis have dramatically declined; wintering populations of M. lucifugus have increased; and wintering populations of all other Vermont species (M. leibii, M. septentrionalis, Eptesicus fuscus, and Pipistrellus subflavus) have remained small.
27744583|Hemigrapsus sanguineus Asian Shore Crab is an introduced but now common crab found intertidally along the Connecticut coastline. Little is known of its subtidal occurrence. This species was found to be seasonally abundant subtidally, at depths varying from 1.33.9 m, during a 2-year study conducted within a commercial marina in Clinton Harbor, CT. Hemigrapsus sanguineus was trapped at three subtidal locations, with highest concentrations observed during the winter. A total of 2020 crabs were caught: 1255 males, 741 females, and 24 crabs that were 9 mm or smaller and sexually indistinguishable. Large males with carapace widths between 4548 mm were captured at all three locations. These sizes are among the largest reported for this species. This work documents year-round use of subtidal habitat by Asian Shore Crab in Long Island Sound.
25177091|I describe a new, characteristic shell deformity in unionid mussels from several sites in southern New York. The posterior end of the shell is strikingly shortened and distorted in these deformed mussels. Because these misshapen mussels have been seen only in streams with heavily agricultural or residential watersheds and only after 1990, they may be caused by an agricultural or household chemical that has come into recent use.
3858498|The northern pitcher plant (Sarracenia purpurea) receives some of its nutrients from the decomposition of prey that fall into its pitcher-shaped leaves. The majority of prey consists of ants, beetles, spiders, and slugs, and in rare cases, frogs and lizards. Here we report on the unusual occurrence of 22 Red-spotted Newt larvae (Notophthalmus viridescens viridescens) trapped within northern pitcher plants during a nutrient manipulation experiment in a Massachusetts bog in the summer of 2003. Newts were found among the larger of our experimental plants, but were not associated with any particular nutrient-addition treatment. High nitrogen levels in newts could contribute significantly to the nutrient budget of northern pitcher plants. Furthermore, this observation suggests that the trapping of amphibian prey by northern pitcher plants might not be as rare an event as previously believed.
10.2307/3858486|The goal of this study was to determine whether seed longevity is an indicator of invasive potential. We studied annual (Polygonum) and woody perennial (Celastrus, Parthenocissus) non-native species and their native congeners in a three-year buried seed experiment. The woody perennial species formed a transient seed bank lasting only one year. In year one, both perennial non-native species had significantly greater germination than their native congeners. Both Polygonum species formed a persistent seed bank, but the invasive P. perfoliatum had greater longevity than the native P. sagittatum. The study demonstrated that seed bank strategies of invasive species are qualitatively similar to their less abundant native congeners, but there were significant quantitative differences.
41810155|Interspecific killing dissociated from predation is rare in birds. An instance of this behavior episode in which a male Branta canadensis (Canada Goose) killed a Branta bernicla (Brant) was observed and photographed on Long Island, NY in April 2011. The Canada Goose exhibited aggressive nest-defense behavior that is well known for this species, and we suspect that this aggression combined with the Brant's inability to defend itself due to its smaller size led to this unusual result. The male Canada Goose maintained its attack until the Brant died.
10.2307/3858436|This study monitored changes during one summer in the composition of aquatic insect communities in leaves of a population of northern pitcher plants (Sarracenia purpurea L.) at an upstate New York bog. Numbers of midge, mosquito, and flesh fly larvae, and volumes of pitchers were measured for S. purpurea plants from June through September, 1996. Numbers of midges and mosquitoes, but not flesh flies, were positively correlated with the volume of water in the pitchers. Midges and mosquitoes were present on all sampling dates, whereas flesh flies were absent from pitchers after 28 August. Densities of midges in pitchers were near-constant throughout the summer. Conversely, densities of mosquitoes and flesh flies reached peaks in pitchers during late July and mid-August, respectively. In addition, midge densities were higher than mosquito densities in pitchers sampled at the end of June. Changes in the densities of aquatic insects in pitchers throughout the summer may be caused by phenological differences among the three dipteran species.
10.2307/3858576|We have described the occurrence of 46 phytoplankton species that are potentially toxic to humans, or harmful to marine life, or both. The area of interest is southeastern Nova Scotia to the Hudson River (NY) estuary. The species are distributed across a number of taxonomic classes, and represent a conservative estimate of the real total, which must remain speculative until the biodiversity of phytoplankton in the area is known. Despite the high number of potential harmful algal bloom (HAB) species, rather few are known to cause problems.
3858638|Thirty-five samples of guano from 32 different maternity roosts of the big brown bat were examined for arthropod inhabitants. A total of 5883 individuals representing 28 species was collected from the guano samples. Of the 28 species, the following 10 occurred in 20% or more of the samples: Cheletonella vespertilionis (Acarina: Cheyletidae), Nycteriglyphites pennsylvanicus (Acarina: Rosensteiniidae), Neatus tenebrioides (Coleoptera: Tenebrionidae), Steatonyssus occidentalis (Acarina: Macronyssidae), Liposcelis corrodens (Psocoptera: Liposcelidae), Scenopinus fenestralis (Diptera: Scenopinidae), Trichouropoda sp. (Acarina: Uropodidae), Gibbium psylloides (Coleoptera: Ptinidae), Mezium americanum (Coleoptera: Ptinidae), and Cimex adjunctus (Hemiptera: Cimicidae). Inhabitants of guano of Eptesicus fuscus were more similar to those of Myotis lucifugus than to those of Nycticeius humeralis or Myotis velifer.
10.2307/3858452|This note augments previous historical records of Celithemis martha by presenting a new locality and further flight season records for Nova Scotia.
4499926|Weekly aerial surveys were conducted in central Labrador during the spring staging period (27 April to 29 May, 2000), and the relative abundance of waterfowl was documented. Anas rupribes (American Black Duck) and Bucephala clangula (Common Goldeneye) were among the first species to arrive, while peak waterfowl diversity occurred on the latest survey date. Overall, Branta canadensis (Canada Geese) were the most abundant species, followed by American Black Duck and Anas crecca (Green-winged Teal). As expected, the relative abundance of these species varied by date and region. By the time of the last survey on 29 May, average flock size had decreased for most species, most likely corresponding with the start of breeding and nest initiation. Our findings could be useful as baseline information for future studies of climate change, may have implications for the management of the aboriginal spring hunt, and also might be used to mitigate the effects of military flying activity.
41495808|We investigated accumulation of elements (Ca, Co, Cr, Cu, Fe, K, Mg, Mn, P, Pb, and Zn) in leaves of different ages for 11 evergreen woody plant species from serpentine soils of New Caledonia. Species were classified into four categories of Ni accumulation ability: one species was a non-accumulator (< 100 mg Ni/kg), three were accumulators (100-1000 mg Ni/kg), two were hyperaccumulators (1000-10,000 mg Ni/kg), and five were hypernickelophores (> 10,000 mg Ni/kg). We harvested leaves from each species, separating them into three (four in one case) relative age categories based upon their position along branches (younger toward the apex, older far from it). Leaf samples were dried, ground, and dry-ashed, and their elemental concentrations were determined by inductively coupled plasma spectrometry (all elements except Ni) or atomic absorption spectrophotometry (Ni). Great variation was found for most elements both within and among species, but Ni varied most (1050-fold between species for oldest leaves). Correlations between Ni and other transition metals showed no significant relationships within samples of any species, but, we found significant positive correlations between Ni and Pb (correlation coefficient = 0.97) and Ni and Fe (correlation coefficient = 0.87) among species. Leaf Ni concentrations varied significantly with leafage for two species, the hypernickelophores Geissois pruinosa and Homalium kanaliense. We conclude that Ni concentration varies markedly between species, but generally does not vary with leafage within species. We also suggest that four Ni accumulation category terms non-accumulator, hemi-accumulator, hyperaccumulator, and hypernickelophore be used to subdivide the wide variation found in Ni concentrations in plant leaves.
10.2307/3858650|During a study of the effects of forest management on small-mammal populations in New Brunswick, Canada, we observed a single case of partial albinism in a red-backed vole, Clethrionomys gapperi. This report documents the observation and discusses the rarity of albino small mammals in the Maritimes.
41429235|Mitochondrial DNA sequence data for the cytochrome-b gene was used to assess genetic divergence among samples of Sorex palustris (Water Shrew) from eastern and western North America. Phylogenetic analysis revealed the presence of three previously observed cladesCordilleran (S. p. navigator and S. p. brooksi), Coastal (S. bendirii), Boreal (S. p.palustris)  along with a novel Eastern clade (S. p. gloveralleni and/or S. p. albibarbis). Intraspecific divergence between the Boreal and Eastern clades was 3.42%, exceedinginterspecific divergence between the Cordilleran and Coastal clades (3.35%). Application of the genetic species concept to the results of this study suggests that the Boreal and Eastern clades of Water Shrews warrant further investigation for recognition as two distinct sister species (i.e., S. palustris and S. albibarbis, respectively). Additional samples and analysis of nuclear markers will be required to substantiate this proposed taxonomic revision.
43288175|Hollardia hollardi (Reticulate Spikefish) is reported from two specimens caught in lobster traps along the southern edge of Georges Bank, far north of its previously known northern distribution from southern Florida, the Bahamas, and Bermuda.
41810142|The introduction of Adelges tsugae (Hemlock Woolly Adelgid [HWA]) to the eastern United States has had a devastating impact on Tsuga canadensis (Eastern Hemlock). Although much research has been done to assess HWA impacts on ecosystem processes and vegetation structure, few researchers have examined community-level changes in highly infested forest stands. Here we assess the impact of Eastern Hemlock mortality on vegetation and invertebrate diversity and community structure by comparing low-impact (healthy) stands and stands heavily impacted by HWA. We sampled the vegetative and invertebrate diversity of 8 sites (4 low impact and 4 high impact) in the summer and fall of 2008. We found a shift in the understory plant community and the canopy and subcanopy arthropod communities. Herbaceous plant species richness was significantly higher at high-impact sites, with Betula lenta (Black Birch) being the most common woody species. Overall, forest invertebrate community diversity (measured using the Shannon-Weaver diversity index) was greater in high-versus low-impact sites. Of the 21 indicator species significantly associated with a given forest type, 14 and 7 species were associated with high-and low-impact forests, respectively. Variation in arthropod community structure was driven by above-ground differences; ground-level arthropod community composition did not differ between high-and low-impact sites. These results demonstrate some of the biodiversity impacts that can result from the invasion of an exotic insect into forested systems.
4499915|In Canada, Thamnophis sauritus (Eastern Ribbon Snake) is found only in southern Ontario and a small area of southwestern Nova Scotia. Although the Nova Scotia population is nationally designated as threatened, its distribution, seasonal activity, movement patterns, and over-wintering sites remain undescribed. We used radio-telemetry, capture-mark recapture, and direct observation to: 1) assess abundance, summer activity, and movement; and 2) to locate and characterize a hibernaculum for Eastern Ribbon Snakes in Kejimkujik National Park, NS. A total of 105 individuals were marked; among these, 13 free-ranging adults were surgically implanted with radio-transmitters and tracked from June until mid-November 2001. From late May to September, snakes were always found within 5 m of water, with summer ranges on land that rarely exceeded 5 x 10 m. From September to mid-October, snakes moved up to 173 m away from the shoreline. Eleven observations of snakes feeding on anurans (Ranidae) and fish (Cyprinidae) were made at temporary pools, marginal to the lake. Despite the use of radio-telemetry, only one hibernaculum was found. Our observations indicate that the Eastern Ribbon Snake is relatively sedentary; its low activity rate and small activity range may make it vulnerable to local extinction.
10.2307/3858393|We estimate between 1,150 to 1,300 Harlequin Ducks wintered in Maine in the late 1990s. This represents over 50% of the total known wintering population in eastern North America. About 75% of these wintering birds in Maine were located in the Isle au Haut area from Vinalhaven to Swans Island. Smaller concentrations of birds were also present in eastern Hancock County (Sally Islands area) and York County (Cape Neddick area). At four groups of islands in the Isle au Haut area, numbers show a pattern of decline from 1989 to 1993 followed by increases since then. In contrast, the maximum number of birds reported each winter in York County has increased from about five birds in 1955 to about 75 birds in 1999 (<tex-math>$\text{r}_{s}$</tex-math> = 0.73, n = 42, P < 0.001). The proportion of males to females observed during mid-winter counts increased from a low of 0.8:1.0 in 1992 to a high of 1.2:1.0 in 1996 (<tex-math>$\text{r}_{s}$</tex-math> = 0.54, n = 35, P = 0.001) and averaged 1.0:1.0 (n = 35, SD = 3.5) from 1989-99. Given the small numbers and limited distribution of Harlequin Ducks in Maine, they should remain under full protection in the foreseeable future.
3858459|Several studies have demonstrated the relationship between black bear (Ursus americanus) reproductive success and the availability of hard mast. Beech bark disease (BBD) has been shown to reduce mast production in beech trees; however, no studies have investigated the relationship between bear foraging preferences of beech trees and the presence of BBD. To investigate this, we measured the severity of Nectria fungus and beech scale insect on freshly clawed and unclawed trees in pooled beech stands in northern Vermont. Our results suggest that bears do not have a strong preference for climbing healthier beech trees in aftermath forests. Changes in landscape composition and in cultural values appear to have been more important processes affecting black bear populations today than has BBD; however, we still advocate management strategies to minimize the impacts of this disease.
4499908|Ticks are common ectoparasites on birds, but little work has examined the effects of ticks on migrating birds. In this study, we examined the incidence of ticks on migrants during spring and fall migration on Appledore Island, ME. Because ticks are not indigenous to the island, birds with ticks are very likely to have transported them from elsewhere. During spring, 2.4% of migrants captured were parasitized by at least one tick, whereas during fall, 0.6% of migrants were parasitized by ticks. These trends occurred in several of the commonly captured species, although there was substantial variation among species. The average number of ticks per infested bird did not differ between the seasons among our commonly captured species. Males and females had similar tick loads within most species. We did not find a consistent pattern of difference in condition (fat and mass) among birds that were parasitized by ticks compared with those that were not. Furthermore, comparison of birds parasitized by ticks with those that were not indicated no significant difference in either the recapture rate or the stopover length between these two groups. Although parasites may greatly impact the fitness of individual birds, our results suggest that ticks are not impacting the species of migrant birds that use this stopover site during migration.
10.2307/3858624|Exploratory archaeobotanical analysis was conducted on Grand Island, Michigan, in concert with current botanical inventories and historic document research. Our goal was to synthesize these three forms of data in the study of early cultural-plant use. We describe indigenous and Euro-American plant relationships on Grand Island, and the patterning of plant remains between individual sites. Botanical materials in four of five samples showed greater correspondence to current flora than to historic accounts of plant representation. Still, from most samples we recovered a good depiction of historic food plants. A well-defined feature sample yielded the greatest quantity and diversity of culturally important botanical material. The results support integration of documentary with archaeological sources to identify plant remains with cultural meaning.
4130971|For nearly a decade, Massachusetts resource managers have been systematically inventorying, assessing and restoring coastal wetlands degraded by infrastructure crossings such as bridges and culverts, which, unless properly designed and constructed, restrict tidal flow to upstream areas. These crossings--known as tidal restrictions--alter the natural flooding and flushing dynamics of coastal estuarine and wetland habitats, causing damage to salt marshes, eelgrass beds, and other important shellfish and finfish habitats. "The Mount Hope Bay Tidal Restriction Atlas", undertaken by the Massachusetts Wetlands Restoration Program and the US Army Corps of Engineers, is the most recent addition to the statewide inventory effort. The "Atlas" lists a total of 74 potential tidal restrictions that were initially identified on maps and aerial photographs, of which 25 sites were documented using rapid field assessment techniques. Each field-visited site was assessed for severity of restriction and habitat impacts, potential environmental benefits of restoration, and logistical feasibility for implementing restoration. Using these factors, sites were prioritized using a high/medium/low scale. A three-page Site Assessment Report, which includes data, maps, and photographs, was generated for each field-visited site. The final "Atlas" was presented in an interactive digital format to allow users to query its database and readily move between data fields, maps, and photographs. The "Atlas" was distributed to stakeholders as a tool for use in restoration planning and implementation.
43287097|We investigated ant species richness, interspecific behavioral interactions, and community composition in adjacent forested and open habitat plots in two forest types of the northeastern United States: 1) the more common hemlock-White Pine forest studied at Harvard Forest Long Term Ecological Research Station in central Massachusetts, and 2) the rare Pitch Pine barrens of Myles Standish State Forest in southeastern Massachusetts, which also provide habitat for multiple rare and endangered species. Overall, we found that species richness, behavioral interactions, and ecological traits vary between forested and adjacent open habitat plots. The number of species is five times higher per plot in the hemlock-White Pine open habitat (compared to forest habitat), but this pattern (i.e., higher species richness in open vs. forested plots) is not observed in the Pitch Pine barren site. Non-metric multidimensional scaling analyses suggest that community composition is significantly different between forest and open plots at both sites. However, community composition in open plots at both sites did not significantly differ from each other. We show that behaviorally dominant and submissive species mostly occur in open plots while neutrally interacting species are more restricted to forested plots, suggesting that interspecific competitive dynamics may be contributing to the community assembly patterns observed in open habitats. Our findings suggest that conservation and management for both open and forested habitat at either site is extremely important when attempting to maintain optimal ant biodiversity because each habitat type provides suitable conditions for different suites of ant communities.
27744572|Baseline information on the current status of rare mussel populations in a given water body is necessary to better understand the effects of actions to protect or enhance populations. We conducted river-wide surveys in French Creek, known for its mussel abundance, to quantify population-level indicators that could be used for measuring viability of Epioblasma torulosa rangiana (Northern Riffleshell), a critically imperiled freshwater mussel, in recovering or reintroduced populations. We estimated multiple attributes of Northern Riffleshell populations, including longitudinal distribution, densities and abundances, sex-specific age structure, and mortality rates. Northern Riffleshell has been documented in French Creek since at least the early 1900s and is distributed unevenly throughout the creek (12 of 32 sites in a bimodal pattern), with no animals found in the upper third of the creek. At sites containing Northern Riffleshell, site-specific densities ranged from 0.0096.668 m2. Maximum age of Northern Riffleshell ranged from 711 years at four sites with evidence of sustained recruitment (i.e., uneven age structure). Proportions of individuals in each age class were similar at each site, even though total numbers of animals differed by up to two orders of magnitude. Significantly more males than females were found in early ages (13), but no significant differences were found in older age classes. There were no significant differences in mortality rates (both sexes combined) at all four sites. However, mortality rates differed significantly between the sexes at older ages (ages 610) at the one site with enough individuals for a comparison, suggesting greater reproductive costs or selective predation for females. The population attributes of Northern Riffleshell from French Creek are important benchmarks for setting restoration goals and measuring success in other systems that share a similar biogeography to French Creek, but whose fauna has been depleted (e.g., many Ohio River tributaries).
41495837|Given the presence of foraging and reproducing adult Cordulegaster (spiketail) dragonflies in Nelson Swamp (Madison County, NY), we examined nymph distribution and abundance in the seeps and springs found within the swamp. From 9 September-4 November 2010, we surveyed 8 sites along Chittenango Creek in order to determine: (1) the species present and their distribution/occurrence among sites, (2) factors influencing species presence and abundances, and (3) patterns in size and age distribution among and within sites. For sites, we delineated habitat zones (inlet, middle, outlet), determined the benthic substrate, and measured shoreline perimeters. For nymphs, we measured head width, body length, and wing pad length and identified some to species. The majority of spiketails we identified were Cordulegaster diastatops (Delta-spotted Spiketail); Cordulegaster maculata (Twin-spotted Spiketail) was also present. Most nymphs occurred in inlets with muck and cobble bottoms and in water depths less than 10 cm. Spiketail densities ranged from 0.13-8.13 individuals/m of shoreline. Smaller individuals occurred in cobble substrate, while muck substrates had individuals of larger size and greater abundance. We demarcated at least 2 age cohorts of nymphs based on their body measurements in relation to growth patterns observed in other spiketail species.
41315966|The purpose of this paper is to document the spread of Dyssodia papposa (Asteraceae; Fetid Dogweed) along roadsides in eastern Canada. Fetid Dogweed is reported new to the provinces of Manitoba and Qubec, Canada, and has greatly expanded its range along southern Ontario highways in the past 15 years. It is expected to continue to expand in northeastern North America. The distinctive appearance of this plant combined with earlier botanical fieldwork along Ontario highways makes it highly unlikely that this species was previously overlooked.
25177134|Neotoma magister (Allegheny Woodrat) is a medium-sized rodent associated with rock outcrops, talus slopes, caves, cliffs, and boulder fields in the central and southern Appalachians and Allegheny Plateau physiographic provinces. It is currently classified as a G3G4 species and is considered threatened, endangered, or a species of concern in almost every state in which it occurs. As part of a 12-yr study on the status and distribution of the Allegheny Woodrat in Virginia, we collected data on woodrat ecology and population demographics. Herein, we investigate the relationship between acorn production and an index of woodrat abundance for several woodrat populations in Virginia. Woodrat population size was estimated using the Lincoln-Peterson index. Acorn mast surveys were conducted by the Virginia Department of Game and Inland Fisheries from 1989 to 2002 to index mast abundance. Woodrat population estimates were positively correlated (P &lt; 0.05) to the previous year's mast crop index at 2 of 4 monitoring sites. Woodrat populations were not correlated to the mast crop two years prior. Acorn production alone does not appear to account for decline in woodrat populations. Range-wide declines in Allegheny Woodrats are likely due to a combination of local and landscape factors, but forest managers should consider acorn production when writing management prescriptions if woodrats are present within the management unit.
10.2307/3858618|The bryoflora of 16 peatlands in northern Indiana was surveyed using systematically arranged, m<sup>2</sup> quadrats. The peatlands included representatives of non-Sphagnum-dominated low-shrub/sedge peatlands, Sphagnum-dominated low-shrub peatlands, Sphagnum-dominated tall shrub-carrs, and forested peatlands. Forty-eight taxa representing 26 genera were noted. The Sphagnaceae and the Amblystegiaceae had the greatest representation. Sphagnum magellanicum, S. fimbriatum, and S. recurvum were the most wide-ranging and frequent Sphagna, occurring in as many as 8 of the 16 peatlands examined. Sphagnum fuscum, S. capillifolium, S. isoviitae, S. russowii, and S. squarrosum were infrequent, each occurring at only one station. Mosses of the family Amblystegiaceae were relatively infrequent, occurring chiefly in four of the extremely mineral-rich peatlands; Calliergonella cuspidata had the greatest frequency. Aulacomnium palustre had the largest trophic amplitude, occurring at all but one of the stations. New bryophyte records for Indiana included Sphagnum isoviitae Flatb., Sphagnum warnstorfii Russow., Calliergon giganteum (Schimp.) Kindb., Calliergonella cuspidata (Hedw.) Loeske, Hypnum pratense Koch ex Spruce, Isopterygium elegans (Brid.) Lindb, and Pallavicinia lyellii (Hook.) S. F. Gray. Numerous new county records and Indiana range extensions were also noted.
40959929|Predation of Clemmys guttata (Spotted Turtle) hatchlings by Rana clamitans (Green Frog) has not previously been reported. During Spotted Turtle nesting surveys in urban Massachusetts, a Spotted Turtle hatchling was radio-tagged and tracked to determine initial movement patterns. Fifteen days post-tagging, the Spotted Turtle hatchling was located in the gut of an adult female Green Frog. Given the abundance of Green Frogs in semi-permanent wetlands, they may be important predators on turtle hatchlings. Further studies are required to determine the frequency of Green Frog prdation on turtle hatchlings and to evaluate total prdation pressure on and survival of Spotted Turtle hatchlings.
10.2307/3858280|Eversgerd Post Oak Flatwoods is a 16 ha woodlot that is part of an extensive band of timber associated with the broad Kaskaskia River valley in the Southern Till Plain Natural Division of Illinois. This flatwoods was studied to determine its woody composition and structure, and the effects of fire suppression on canopy closure and plant succession. Tree density within the site averaged 266 trees/ha with a basal area of 24.8 m<sup>2</sup>/ha. Quercus stellata Wang. (post oak) dominated the overstory and woody understory with an importance value of 171 (200 possible). Quercus bicolor Willd. (swamp white oak) and Q. palustris Muenchh. (pin oak) were common species in a shallow depression, accounting for their second and third in importance value ranking. The forest has an open, park-like appearance. Small woody saplings averaged 820 stems/ha and large saplings averaged 221 stems/ha. Grasses and sedges dominated the herbaceous layer; Danthonia spicata (L.) Roem. & Schultes and Carex cephalophora Willd. were the dominant species. The large number of post oaks with low branches and branch scars indicate that this forest was more open in the past.
10.2307/3858494|Male weakfish, Cynoscion regalis, produce drumming sounds with sonic muscles that vibrate the swim bladder, and a second sound dubbed "chatter," circumstantially linked to weakfish, is likely produced by cusk-eels (family Ophidiidae.) These sounds have been recorded in Narragansett Bay, Rhode Island from early June to early September since 1965. At Middlebridge on the Pettaquamscutt River (Narrow River) there are typically 8 to 14 callers ("chattering") present within a season, based on spectrographic and amplitude signatures. A typical chatter is a train of pulses with durations of up to 2.4 seconds with most energy between 800 Hz to 1800 Hz. Drumming consists of shorter pulse trains of lower pitch. Drumming is present in the spring, and chatter is present in the spring and summer. It was possible to identify individual chatterers throughout a season, and sound data suggest that individual fish are relatively stationary within separate ranges.
41684234|The exotic amphipod Echinogammarus ischnus, first reported in North America from western Lake Erie in 1995, was recorded in Oneida Lake, NY in 2001. Some North American studies have suggested that E. ischnus was replacing native amphipods, but other studies found no evidence for this. We sampled amphipods at six depths (<0.2, 0.6, 1.2, 1.8, 3.0, and >3.8 m) along six transects in Oneida Lake to quantify variation in densities of amphipod species as a function of depth, substrate (cobble with Dreissena and with or without macroalgae, sand with or without Dreissena, and macroalgae or submersed vascular plants) and density of Dreissena, and compared the present amphipod density to the historical record. Four species of amphipods, Gammar us fas ciatus, Hyalella azteca, E. ischnus, and Crangonyx sp., were collected from Oneida Lake. Gammarus fasciatus was 9 to 90 times more abundant (mean = 0.09 individuals/cm) than other amphipod species and was collected on all substrates and at all depths, as was H. azteca. Statistical comparisons were made with non-parametric tests between mean ranks of density of amphipods and Dreissena and the other variables. Mean ranks of density of G. fasciatus were correlated with depth (Spearman rank = 0.28, P < 0.0001), but mean ranks of density of H. azteca were not, and neither species was correlated with mean ranks of density of Dreissena. Mean ranks of density of G. fasciatus were greater on sand with or without macroalgae or submersed vascular plants (SVP) or Dreissena than on cobble with macroalgae and Dreissena (H = 28.2, P < 0.0001). Mean ranks of density of H. azteca were greater on sand with SVP, with or without Dreissena, than on sand with Dreissena and without SVP (H = 21.8, P = 0.0013). Echinogammarus ischnus was collected only in water less than 1.8 m depth and always with Dreissena. Mean ranks of density of E. ischnus were correlated with depth (Spearman rank = -0.29, P < 0.0001) and with Dreissena mean ranks of density (Spearman rank = 0.14, P = 0.01). Mean ranks of density of E. ischnus was greater on cobble with Dreissena than on sand with Dreissena regardless of the presence or absence of macroalgae or SVP (H = 35.4, P < 0.0001). Although E. ischnus is established in the near-shore zone of Oneida Lake, we found no evidence that it will replace the native amphipods G. fasciatus and H. azteca.
4499936|We document the discovery of Campostoma anomalum (Central Stoneroller) in the tidal mouth of the Poestenkill, a Hudson River tributary in Troy, NY. This is the first record of the species from a tidal habitat and is a range extension of approximately 68 km downstream from the Mohawk River.
60225648|Surficial materials were mapped on the bottom of Cobscook Bay, ME, through aerial photography of intertidal habitats, side-scan sonar, and seismic reflection profiling of subtidal regions. Like many other estuaries in northern New England, this rocky, macrotidal estuary has only slight riverine input and contains an abundance of till and fine-grained glacial-marine sediment. Contrary to conceptual models of estuarine sediment and habitat distribution, grain size does not become finer and habitats lower in energy in a landward direction within the estuary. The irregular shoreline shape, imparted by bedrock, forms a series of narrow constrictions separating broad bays. More than 70% of the bottom of the estuary is floored by gravel and rock; mud deposits are located in shallow-water coves throughout the Bay and in two large deposits in the Central Bay. Here, circulation models predict two large gyres form because water cannot pass through a bedrock constriction quickly enough. Natural gas is present in sufficient quantities in the sediment column to facilitate sediment mass movements near the mud deposits. Almost 60% of the intertidal zone is composed of mudflats that are uniformly distributed within and along the outside margin of the Bay, with increasing abundance of bedrock in a landward direction. Small beaches occur wherever coarse-grained glacial sediment erodes from bluffs. These observations depart from existing conceptual models of estuarine sediment distribution based on coastal plain estuaries and suggest that better understanding of biotic habitat or contaminant distribution in rocky glaciated estuaries will require more localized models. These estuaries appear more complex than coastal plain estuaries because of the unique outcrop pattern of bedrock and glacial deposits in each bay.
60225655| We estimated the aboveground productivity of eelgrass, Zostera marina, in Cobscook Bay at three soft-bottom lower intertidal locations during 1995-1996. Approximately 30 plants were tagged bi-weekly or monthly at two sites where we used a completely randomized block design to assess spatial variability in leaf initiation and elongation rates. The data showed strong seasonal patterns with highest rates from June-September and lowest rates from November-April. At one site, Bell Farm, plants were tagged at two discrete tidal levels (intertidal and sublittoral fringe). On each sampling date, mean leaf biomass and new leaf production were 2.7 and 1.7 times greater, respectively, for plants in the sublittoral fringe. At another site, Mahar Cove, all tagged plants were restricted to one tidal level. Spatial variation in leaf biomass and new leaf production were examined on the first four sampling dates and significant effects were observed twice. Productivity estimates ranged from 0.095 g dry wt <tex-math>$\text{m}^{-2}\text{day}^{-1}$</tex-math> (November-January) to 1.215 g dry wt <tex-math>$\text{m}^{-2}\text{day}^{-1}$</tex-math> (August) at Bell Farm. At Mahar Cove, rates ranged from 0.176 g dry wt <tex-math>$\text{m}^{-2}\text{day}^{-1}$</tex-math> (March-April) to 1.490 g dry wt <tex-math>$\text{m}^{-2}\text{day}^{-1}$</tex-math> (August). Average annual productivity at Bell Farm and Mahar Cove was 0.481  0.512 g dry wt <tex-math>$\text{m}^{-2}\text{day}^{-1}$</tex-math> and 0.784  0.512 g dry wt <tex-math>$\text{m}^{-2}\text{day}^{-1}$</tex-math>, respectively. These estimates correlate directly with seawater temperature, but not with salinity, nitrate, and total phosphorous. The time for plants to fully turn over their leaves at the two sites ranged from 50.5-56.7 days (6.4-7.2 turnovers per year), and are comparable to other locations in the northeast US and the Canadian Maritimes. We estimate that total (interidal + subtidal) eelgrass production in Cobscook Bay ranges from 3.3-5.3  <tex-math>$10^{8}\text{g C year}^{-1}$</tex-math>. This is the first appraisal of growth and productivity of Z. marina in eastern Maine. 
41810150|Data on food habits of Myotis leibii (Eastern Small-footed Myotis) are scarce. We dissected 172 fecal samples collected from 75 adult (29 males and 46 females) and 2 juvenile (1 male and 1 female) Eastern Small-footed Myotis, captured in mist nets along a forested ridge in northeastern West Virginia in 2008. Fecal samples were dissected and prey items identified to the level of taxonomic order and, when possible, to family. Eastern Small-footed Myotis consumed eight orders of arthropods from 11 families. Lepidoptera (moths) composed 41.5% ( 1.9 SE) of adult fecal volume and were found in samples of all 75 adults. Coleptera (beetles) contributed 30.6  1.7% to adult fecal volume and were detected in samples of 97.3% of adults (n = 73). Dptera (flies) composed 16.9  1.9% of adult fecal volume and were found in samples of 82.7% of adults (n = 62). Fecal samples of adult females contained a higher percent volume of Lepidoptera (45.9  2.4%, n = 46) than samples of adult males (34.6  3.2%, n = 29). These data provide evidence of moderate dietary specialization on Lepidoptera and demonstrate dietary variation between sexes. Data also indicate Coleoptera and Dptera as important taxonomic groups in the diet of Eastern Small-footed Myotis.
3858418|Fishes were collected in all four streams of the Presque Isle Bay watershed in Erie, PA, to assess the environmental effects of urbanization. These streams were evaluated using an index of biotic integrity (IBI) combined with a multivariate analysis. Four reference streams in adjacent non-urban watersheds were selected for comparison. IBI values and associated impairment status of sites varied from eight sites in three streams that were impaired, to six sites on the four reference streams which were acceptable. The highest diversity sites were the sites farthest downstream in three of the streams, where 6-19 species were collected per site. No fishes were collected in the lowest diversity site and no Pennsylvania species of concern were collected at any sites. Our results indicate that at least half of the stream fish assemblages in the Presque Isle Watershed are impaired, likely due to effects of urbanization.
3858383|The European green crab, Carcinus maenas, and the Asian shore crab, Hemigrapsus sanguineus, are two introduced crab species that co-occur in the rocky intertidal zone of New England. Carcinus maenas has been established for over 100 years and has primarily been characterized as a molluscan predator, while H. sanguineus is new to the region and has an omnivorous diet. We compared the feeding rates of these two introduced crab species on the native blue mussel, Mytilus edulis, to determine their relative impacts on this important prey species. We utilized three size classes of mussels: small (4.5-5.5 mm shell length), medium (9.5-10.5 mm) and large (14.5-21.5 mm). Because feeding rates are expected to vary with biomass, we attempted to match the two crab species by weight rather than by carapace width. The two crab species had similar feeding rates on the smallest size class of mussel, while H. sanguineus had significantly higher feeding rates on the two larger mussel size classes. The higher feeding rate of Hemigrapsus sanguineus implies that it may have a larger per capita impact on prey populations than C. maenas did when it was established. The consequences of the increasing populations of H. sanguineus in northern New England are discussed.
4130741|A survey of the Boston Harbor Islands national park area yielded 175 lichen species in 67 genera, and 70 bryophyte species in 44 genera. Ten percent of the lichens represent a maritime floristic element, and 4% represent a coastal plain element. Caloplaca verruculifera, an orange lichen of rocky shores, is reported new for Massachusetts. Human disturbance and air pollution seem to be the major factors limiting the colonization of lichens and bryophytes on the islands, and specific recommendations for protecting sensitive lichen and bryophyte communities are presented.
41684250|Canis latrans (Coyote) populations are expanding throughout the eastern United States, making them the apex predator in many systems. Despite abundant research in the western United States, relatively little information exists on the space use or feeding patterns of Coyotes in the forested landscapes of the Appalachians. We used radio-telemetry and scat analysis to describe seasonal habitat use and feeding patterns of Coyotes in central West Virginia during 2006-2008. Odocoileus virginianus (White-tailed Deer) was the most common prey, occurring in 76% of scats collected in winter and 45% of scats collected in summer. Rodents were the most common prey item in summer, occurring in 48% of scats; other prey items occurred in <20% of scats. Coyotes selected for recently harvested forest stands while avoiding intact stands in both summer and winter. Despite exhibiting seasonal prey-switching behavior, Coyotes in this region do not alter habitat-use patterns with respect to season. Coyotes in our study seem to be opportunistic feeders that prefer areas with abundant cover. Their opportunistic feeding patterns may contribute to their rapid population expansion in this region.
43287100|A nesting Gavia immer (Common Loon) was discovered incubating 2 rocks on a floating nest platform on the Quabbin reservoir in central Massachusetts for 43 days, well beyond the typical period of 28 days, before we moved in to investigate. The rocks were likely unearthed in the soil and vegetation used on the platform to create a more natural substrate for the nest. We suggest sifting through soil and vegetation to remove rocks before placing material on nest platforms.
27744539|We examined the distribution of Plethodon cinereus (Red-backed Salamander) with respect to cover-object type in the Green Mountains of Vermont by exploring their distribution under cover objects relative to the total availability of cover objects on the forest floor. We conducted cover-object searches in sixteen 50-m transects in forest stands &gt;50 years old to explore the distribution of large (&gt;3.47 cm snoutvent length) and small (&lt;3.47 cm snoutvent length) salamanders with respect to object material, size, and texture. There were more salamanders than would be expected by chance under rocks and fewer under woody objects (branches and logs). Salamander counts were higher than would be expected under large cover objects and lower under small ones. Our results also indicate that salamanders were more common than would be expected under fibrous woody objects and less common under solid ones. Finally, we found that large salamanders were more common than would be expected under rocks, while small salamanders were more common under woody objects. These results could have important implications for improving the recovery of salamanders following forest management applications.
40959926|Euphagus carolinus (Rusty Blackbird) has suffered a steep population decline over the past 40 years, yet we still understand little of the basic biology of the species, particularly its social organization. During the spring of 2007, we located a loose colony of Rusty Blackbirds breeding in Piscataquis County, ME. The core colony consisted of six nests within 6.9 ha. These nests were located within a 70-ha clearcut dominated by regenerating Picea rubens (Red Spruce), P. mariana (Black Spruce), and Abies balsamea (Balsam Fir). Within 1500 m of the core colony, we located two "satellite" nests in young forests regenerating from heavy partial harvests. We observed mobbing behavior by multiple individuals from different pairs, suggesting that coloniality in this species may be an antipredator strategy.
10.2307/3858265|Orconectes neglectus, a crayfish native to the Mississippi River drainage in Arkansas, Oklahoma, Missouri, and Kansas, is reported from streams in southeastern New York for the first time. This species is the newest component of a crayfish fauna that is increasingly dominated by introduced species. Individuals of this species were collected in 1997-1999. First and second form males and females ranged in size from 7.5 - 40.9 mm carapace length. Ovigerous females were collected in May 1999. These data demonstrate that this species is established and reproducing in clear, rubble-bottom streams in southeastern New York. O. neglectus is readily identifiable by its distinctive coloration and color pattern; other characteristics of the rostrum, mandible, gonopod and annulus ventralis also are useful in distinguishing it from other species inhabiting northeastern North America. Currently, O. neglectus is known in the northeastern United States only from tributaries of the upper Croton River of the lower Hudson River drainage. We assume that it was introduced into the area accidentally.
3858542|Cardamine longii (Brassicaceae), long's bittercress, is an imperiled plant confined largely to freshwater tidal marshes of the eastern U.S. To better understand possible causes of rarity in the species, its reproductive output was studied in two southeastern Massachusetts populations. Plants were found to produce about 10 fruits per individual (five per inflorescence), with the majority of a population fruiting in July. About 78% of the flowers produced in the two populations set fruit, with each fruit yielding nine seeds on average. Seeds were viable as indicated by their ability to germinate in the laboratory. Without any prior cold treatment, germination levels reached 87% over a four-week period yet were markedly reduced when seeds were allowed to dry prior to incubation. We suggest that fruit and seed production and viability are not important factors in limiting C. longii's population sizes and growth.
10.2307/3858515|Management of New England's offshore fisheries began in 1950, following ratification of the International Commission for the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries treaty. Due to both limited authority and management protocols, sustainable fisheries were not achieved. Frustrated with severe overfishing, both the United States and Canada opted to declare 200-mile fishery zones effective in 1977. Unfortunately, US jurisdiction within 200 miles failed to prevent overfishing. Previously blamed on foreign vessels, the near demise of offshore stocks in recent years was caused by the domestic fleet. New England's groundfish stocks thus reached their lowest levels since statistics were first maintained. The history of management efforts and the factors that led to today's crisis are examined. If New England's fishing industry is to once again become a viable and vibrant enterprise, new and creative management concepts must be considered.
25177145|We observed the alert responses of Sciurus carolinensis (Eastern Gray Squirrel) to two different approach stimuli (human only and human with a leashed dog) in two suburban habitats differing in the level of human activity. Alert distance in the habitat with higher levels of human activity was significantly shorter than the alert distance in the habitat with lower levels of human activity. Overall, the alert distance did not differ between the approach by a human alone and the approach by a human with a dog; however, in the high human activity sites (but not the low human activity sites), the presence of the dog increased alert distance in the squirrels. In addition, squirrels tended to initially respond by running more in the high human activity sites, but the presence of the dog increased the number of squirrels whose initial responses were to not run. Our results suggest that Eastern Gray Squirrel antipredator behavior, at least in response to humans and human-associated animals, is influenced by the level of human activity in the surrounding habitat.
41684242|Sorex maritimensis (Maritime Shrew) is endemic to New Brunswick and Nova Scotia. We suggest that post-glacial dispersal northward by this species from a coastal plain refugium located in the mid-Atlantic, rather than dispersal from a refugium off Nova Scotia as previously proposed, is more parsimonious with current understanding of the glacial history of the region. A range extension into northeastern New Brunswick shows that the species is distributed north-south in New Brunswick and suggests that wetlands in heavily forested regions meet the ecological requirements of the Maritime Shrew. Such wetlands may provide avenues for dispersal and ensure connectivity among populations. Habitat descriptions for the Maritime Shrew indicate a wetland-associated species adaptable enough to utilize disturbance-dominated and anthropogenic wetlands. Further investigations of the biology of the Maritime Shrew are required to inform future habitat and wetland protection policies that should consider the requirements of this poorly known Canadian mammal.
10.2307/3858448|Caenestheriella gynecia, a poorly known species of the clam shrimp family Cyzicidae, is reported from New England for the first time. Two populations were monitored, along with water chemistry and vegetation features, in wooded ephemeral pools along abandoned roads in Berkshire County, Massachusetts from August through September, 2000. All animals collected alive and over 6 mm in length contained eggs. No male features were detected in any specimens. Field and laboratory observations revealed no copulation among individuals. All specimens conformed to the original description but demonstrated variability that extended across two recognized genera, Cyzicus and Caenestheriella.
4499928|During 1998-2000 and 2002-2004, field surveys were conducted within the Moosehorn National Wildlife Refuge, located in northeastern Maine, to determine if ozone-induced symptoms occurred on refuge vegetation. Foliar symptoms were observed on ozone-sensitive bioindicators during each survey year, but the incidence (percentage) of plants exhibiting symptoms was generally low and varied among species and years. Refuge plants that exhibited symptoms included Fraxinus spp. (ash), Populus spp. (aspen), Corylus cornuta (beaked hazelnut), Prunus serotina (black cherry), Prunus pensylvanica (pin cherry), Apocynum androsaemifolium (spreading dogbane), and a viburnum tentatively identified as Viburnum nudum var. cassinoides (withe-rod). Data from the nearest US EPA ozone-monitoring site, located 113 km southwest of the refuge in Acadia National Park, ME, revealed that ambient SUM60 ozone levels during survey years ranged from approximately 17,900 ppb-hrs in 2000 to more than 40,000 ppb-hrs in 1998. Therefore, the threshold level of SUM60 ozone capable of inducing symptoms on sensitive vegetation within this refuge and Class-I Wilderness area is less than 18,000 ppb-hrs, and may be as low as 10,000 ppb-hrs. The results of these surveys can be used by the US Fish and Wildlife Service when making air-quality management decisions, including those related to the review of Prevention of Significant Deterioration permits, and might serve as input into formulating more stringent National Ambient Air Quality Standards for ozone.
4130999|During the summer of 2003, we captured and radiotagged ten male Myotis septentrionalis (northern bats) on the Fernow Experimental Forest (FEF) in the Allegheny Mountains of West Virginia to investigate day-roost selection. Of 16 roosts that were located, 13 were in Robinia pseudoacacia (black locusts), five in snags and eight in live trees. The other three roosts occurred in a Sassafras albidum (sassafras) snag and two live Acer saccharum (sugar maples). All live trees used as roosts were medium to large, canopy-dominant trees with considerable amounts of exfoliating bark and numerous broken limbs and cavities. Snags used as roosts were smaller than trees and other snags in surrounding stands, whereas live trees used as roosts were larger than other trees and snags in surrounding stands. Similar to previous research on female northern bats in the Allegheny Mountains, we observed a strong preference for both live and snag black locust as roosts over other available species. The high abundance of black locust as an important component on the FEF has been a relatively recent development dating to the early 1900s. Use of live canopy-dominant black locust with characteristics of mature forest trees lends support that older forests with decadent conditions provide important day-roost habitat, whereas use of both canopy dominant live trees and long-lasting black locust snags may support the ecological concept of roosting "areas" for northern bats.
10.2307/3858261|This classification of Maine's freshwater organic wetlands (peatlands) uses nutrient source, geomorphic-hydrologic setting, gross topography of the peat mass, microtopographic pattern, and presence of pools for distinguishing peatland types. We apply these primarily hydro-geomorphological criteria to landscape units called peatland complexes. Vegetation, while important at lower levels of classification and for the description of individual peatlands, is not used in this classification because, typically, all but the smallest peatland complexes in Maine have major areas of differing vegetational physiognomies and types. This classification resembles the peatland division of Canada's current wetland classification more than the classification in most common use in the United States because a large percentage of Maine peatlands are northern in character. Our classification contains eight peatland types. Two of these are divided into two subtypes. Only one of the types has unique floristic and vegetational elements: plateau (coastal) bog. Large Maine peatlands typically contain multiple complexes, commonly of more than one type. We use the term multiple-unit peatland for these multiple complexes. Our classification and survey of the distribution of peatland types in Maine is based on a large representative sample of peatlands. We conducted an air photo survey of 1100 peatlands throughout the state, observed a representative subset of 171 of these from aircraft at low altitude, and studied a representative subset of 100 of the 171 on the ground. However, to classify a peatland using our system, only air photo study or aerial observation is needed. The distribution of peatland types in Maine is controlled by gradients of topography, geological substrate, climate, and hydrology. Peatlands are least abundant in the well-drained western uplands. Unpatterned fens occur throughout Maine; hundreds of the smaller ones (<10 ha) occur in ice-block depressions (kettles). Five types, all of which also occur in Canada, reach their eastern North American southern limits in Maine: ribbed (string) fens at 4530N, eccentric bogs at 4510N, domed bogs with concentric pattern at 4445N, plateau bogs at 4415N, and gently convex bogs at 4320N. These latitudinal limits exclude individual southern outliers). Distributions of peatland types in adjacent areas of New Hampshire and Canada are consistent with those in Maine. We propose that the geographic position of Maine along a steep south (coastal) to north (inland) climatic gradient and a less-steep west-southwest to east-northeast climatic gradient paralleling the coast are the major factors accounting for the diverse representation of peatland types in so limited an area.
4499929|Annual field surveys were conducted from 1999-2004 within the Seney National Wildlife Refuge in northern Michigan to determine if ambient ozone levels at this remote location were great enough to injure refuge vegetation. Ozone injury was observed on sensitive bioindicator plants during each survey year; however, the incidence (percentage) of plants exhibiting symptoms was low and varied among species and years. Ozone-induced symptoms occurred on Sambucus canadensis (American elder), Prunus serotina (black cherry), Asclepias syriaca (common milkweed), and Apocynum androsaemifolium (spreading dogbane). The most sensitive species was spreading dogbane. In addition, ozone injury was observed on a viburnum species, tentatively identified as Viburnum nudum var. cassinoides (withe-rod). Ambient ozone has been monitored since 2002 at an EPA monitoring site within the refuge. Cumulative SUM60 ozone levels (ppb-hrs) by the end of August for each survey year were greatest in 2003, followed by 2002, and least in 2004. The annual incidence of ozone injury for the 3 years was not directly related to level of ambient ozone, but was likely confounded by environmental factors such as drought. Based on the 2004 survey, the threshold level of SUM60 ozone needed to induce visible symptoms on sensitive vegetation in this remote refuge is close to 5000 ppb-hrs.
3858689|We document the discovery of the mimic shiner, Notropis volucellus (Cope), in the Connecticut portion of the Connecticut River drainage. Mimic shiner can be distinguished from similar northeastern minnows in the field by the combination of a uniform silvery color, large eye, nearly terminal mouth, and a distinctive line of black pigment beginning at the anus and extending posteriorly almost to the base of the caudal fin. Further distinguishing features can be seen in the laboratory including elevated anterior lateral line scales and densely packed neuromasts on the top of the head. We suspect that mimic shiner is more widely distributed in the northeast than has been reported.
10.2307/3858522|Year-round no-take marine protected areas (MPAs) can enhance conservation of exploited species and biodiversity overall. MPAs have the potential to sustain living marine resources and their support systems at genetic, population-community, ecosystem, and landscape levels. From a fisheries perspective they can protect spawning and nursery areas of key species, maintain age structure (retain older, proportionately more fecund individuals), protect key habitats, and reduce bycatch. MPAs are used sporadically in management of fisheries and are generally based on predicted responses for populations of exploited taxa. However, identification of representative, rare, and high diversity areas of temperate and boreal marine systems, especially on outer continental shelves, is still in its infancy. There is information available from both the scientific literature and from fishers on the life history and behavior of economically important species, on species assemblage patterns, and on physical structure of the marine environment. Such information could be used as a starting point for identifying areas of particular importance to populations or communities of fishes and for the conservation of diversity at the regional scale. Identification of such areas could serve as a basis to design an experimental network of MPAs. Such MPAs, designated for the purpose of maintaining or developing sustainable fisheries, must explicitly be designed within an experimental context, maintaining flexibility for changes in regulations as new information becomes available. Monitoring change in exploited and non-target populations (intra- and inter-guild), habitat complexity indices, and diversity of sentinel taxa (for assessing maintenance of diversity) will be needed to provide feedback to assess the efficacy of MPAs and to recommend changes in the regulatory framework.
40664880|The Hooper Branch Nature Preserve is located in the extensive dune and swale topography of the sand deposits of northeastern Illinois. The plant communities present at the time of this survey were similar to those of pre-settlement times.The vegetation associated with the dunes had not been disturbed except for past grazing; the swales, in contrast, were drained and farmed before the area was dedicated in 1986. Dry and dry-mesic sand savanna was associated with the dunes where Quercus velutina (Black Oak) accounted for 75% to 97% of the importance value in the savanna. Carex pensylvanica (Pennsylvania Sedge) was the dominant ground cover species usually followed by Schizachyrium scoparium (Little Bluestem). In parts of the preserve that had been most recently burned, woody species were more common in the ground layer, with the most important being Q. velutina seedlings, Rhus copallina (Dwarf Sumac), and Rubus allegheniensis (Common Blackberry). A 3-ha flatwoods in the Preserve was dominated by Q. palus tris (Pin Oak), which accounted for nearly 95% of the overstory.
10.2307/3858702|During summer 2001 I consistently observed a group of 6 adult coyotes (the breeding female was radiocollared) raising 1 pup in a suburban area on Cape Cod, Massachusetts. In this note I describe the activities of this group and possible reasons for the large pack size.
27744563|We examined how buffering capacity affected natural earthworm communities by comparing well-buffered soils in Madison County in central New York and poorly buffered soils in the western Adirondacks. We also investigated how liming and interspecific competition influenced growth and survival of 2 exotic taxa (Eisenia foetida and Amynthas agrestis) in Adirondack and central New York soils using laboratory microcosms. Earthworms were more abundant and diverse in central New York soils than in western Adirondack soils. Interspecific competition had no effect on growth or survival of either species in microcosms. Survival of A. agrestis was low in Adirondack soils without lime, but liming increased survival to that of central New York soils. Growth rates of E. foetida were lowest in Adirondack soils without lime, but highest in Adirondack soils with lime. Our results suggest that high soil acidity may be preventing exotic earthworms from successfully invading the western Adirondacks.
4499931|We introduce an analysis method to demonstrate correlation between biota and the physical habitats that they occupy. Using the same calculations as does Nei's genetic distance index, this method builds independent dissimilarity matrices for both habitat and fauna, which can then be compared in a common statistical framework. An important advantage of this method is that only frequency data are necessary to perform the analysis. We demonstrate the utility of this method using fish community and habitat data from the Eightmile and Pomperaug rivers in Connecticut. In both cases, there is a significant correlation between biota and habitat. Not only is ecological dissimilarity analysis a useful technique for testing community-to-habitat correlation, it is also an excellent tool for communicating this information to the many non-scientists who shape conservation policy.
43287133|Mya arenaria (Softshell Clam) inhabit a wide range of intertidal and subtidal sediment types in the western North Atlantic. They avoid prdation by burrowing deeply in the sediment. We investigated the effect of sediment type on the antipredator responses of Softshell Clams to Carcinus maenas (Green Crab) as well as the relative costs and benefits of living in different sediment types. Clam burrowing depth, growth, and Green Crab predation rate were observed in experimental plots of mud, sand, and gravel. Clams exposed to crabs burrowed deeper than did control clams in all sediment types, but clams burrowed deepest in finer sediment types. Clams in coarser sediments also had thicker shells and suffered lower rates of prdation than did those in mud. These results suggest distinctive costs and benefits associated with inhabiting different sediment types. For Softshell Clams, coarse sediments are most costly metabolically, but have lower prdation risk compared to finer sediments.
27744542|Accumulations of nuisance drift macroalgae along the open coast Atlantic beaches of the Cape Cod National Seashore have been observed on an anecdotal basis for over 50 years. This entire stretch of coastline is sandy, with no solid substrata for algal attachment. During the summer of 2006, we collected data on drift macroalgal accumulations repeatedly throughout this National Seashore. Peak biomass (consisting of several filamentous red species and green algae, primarily Ulva lactuca) was found in early August, mainly at the northernmost site. Our data, together with ocean current patterns and anecdotal evidence, suggest that macroalgae may originate in rocky shorelines of northern New England and are transported south by Gulf of Maine currents. Algae are most likely caught along the Cape Cod National Seashore shoreline by sand bars, particularly in the northern part of the shoreline.
3858339|A complete record of the range of most species of zooplankton within river systems is rare. The calanoid copepod Eurytemora affinis has a relatively detailed description of its range in fresh waters, mostly because of its recent invasion into freshwater. Within the Ohio River, E. affinis has been documented twice, but these reports are from only a small section of the river. The objective of this paper is to describe the upstream dispersal of Eurytemora affinis in the Ohio River. Zooplankton samples were collected in four pools (Dashields, Montgomery, Racine, and Gallipolis) in the upper section of the Ohio River between September 2002 and September 2003. Eurytemora affinis was the dominant copepod in all four pools. Furthermore, copepodites and females carrying eggs were present, which suggests that E. affinis has established populations in the upper Ohio River. This extends the range to include, at minimum, the upper two-thirds of the Ohio River.
25177085|Urban parks often represent the only stopover habitats available to migrating birds encountering expansive metropolitan areas. Green spaces remaining within cities may therefore be valuable to migrants; yet studies of migrants in this context are few. I examined the lipid content of birds killed by window collisions in spring and autumn in a small recreational park in New York City to assess the energetic condition of migratory passerines utilizing an urban habitat as a stopover site. I compared chemically determined fat content (expressed as a lipid index: g fat / g lean dry mass) and visible subcutaneous fat scores between seasons, autumn age classes, and birds grouped by family and foraging guild. Average total body fat (as % of dry mass) was 29.4% in spring and 24.1% in autumn; few lean birds were found in either season. Birds in spring were significantly fatter than in autumn. In spring and autumn, no differences in fat content (i.e., fat scores and lipid indices) were observed between warblers and thrushes. In spring, there were no differences in fat content between warbler foraging guilds, whereas in autumn, ground/understory-foraging warbler species were fatter than warbler species associated with arboreal foraging. In autumn, the fat content of immature birds was comparable to that of adults. It could not be determined whether the high fat content of birds found here was acquired during stopovers in the study site or if birds arrived with substantial fat stores remaining from previous stopovers. The likelihood of each scenario and the value of urban parks to migratory birds are discussed.
41315940|The spatial patterns in the seed bank were examined within a coastal sanddune system. Soil samples were collected from vegetated and bare plots in three zones, each dominated by different plant species. The total number of seeds and species diversity in the seed bank were low. There were no significant patterns in total seed number. However, there were significant differences in species composition. Seeds of Artemisia campestris (Tall Wormwood) were more abundant in vegetated plots and were found in all zones, although adults are more spatially restricted. Fruits of Cyperus grayii (Gray's Sedge) were most common where adults are found. Dominant species from the site were absent from the seed bank. Overall, composition of the seed bank does not reflect composition of the adult community.
43287101|Fourteen Alle alle (Dovekie) were recovered from the stomachs of 14 Lophius americanus (Goosefish) caught during winter and spring 2007-2010. All fish were caught in gill nets set at depths of 85-151 m (276-491 ft) 104-150 km (65-94 mi) south of Chatham, MA. Dovekies showed few signs of digestion by the fish, indicating recent capture. Post mortem revealed no cause of mortality. Capture of birds by fish so far from shore and in deep water leads to speculation that the birds were preyed on by Goosefish at or near the surface. Evidence from electronic tagging of Goosefish suggests that Goosefish vertical migrations could bring them into contact with Dovekies feeding offshore. If Goosefish are concentrated during onshoreoffshore migrations and Dovekies are concentrated for feeding on prey patches, prdation by Goosefish on Dovekies could be episodically important.
3858503|A cytological and morphological survey of the black flies of Prince Edward Island revealed 20 species of which 13 represent new provincial records. An additional three species have been recorded in the literature but were not found in this study. All 20 species are widely distributed on the North American mainland. Three species are significant pests of humans, six feed on birds, two species do not take blood, and the remaining species feed on non-human mammals.
41684237|Allelopathy is one explanation for non-native plant invasion, but native plants also can be allelopathic. We tested the allelopathic potentials of the non-native, invasive grass Microstegium vimineum (Japanese Stilt-grass) and the native herb Ageratina altissima (White Snakeroot), which both can dominate the herb layer in central New Jersey forests. Aqueous extracts from roots and shoots of both species negatively affected the speed of germination and the percent germination of Lettuce and Radish seeds in Petri dishes, and White Snakeroot shoot extract had the strongest effect. In a factorial experiment in pots of forest soil that combined extract treatments with activated carbon addition (to manipulate allelochemicals) and soil sterilization (to investigate indirect allelopathic effects via the soil microflora), Lettuce and Radish seedling establishment was reduced by extracts, especially from the native White Snakeroot. However, growth of surviving seedlings was unaffected by the extracts or their interactions with carbon or soil sterilization. These results show that a native species had stronger allelopathic potential than an aggressive, non-native invader from the same forest and that allelopathy was effective on the earliest developmental stages of the target plant species. In addition, activated carbon and sterilization interacted to directly influence plant growth. Growth was greater in sterilized than unsterilized soils, but only when carbon was added, suggesting caution in using these techniques in allelopathy studies.
40959928|The ecologically similar species Crotonopsis elliptica and Croton monanthogynus were described by Steyermark in his Flora of Missouri as inhabitants of acid rock outcrop communities (sandstone, granite, chert) in the Ozarks but not of limestone outcrops. However, field observations and transect data confirm that C. monanthogynus can be abundant in Ozark limestone outcrop communities, codominating with Isanthus brachiatus and Heliotropium tenellum in the 5 cm to 11 cm soil depth zone, while almost never occurring on sandstone outcrops. Greenhouse experiments revealed that C. elliptica was healthy on sandstone soil, but stunted and sickly on limestone outcrop soil, consistent with its absence from calcareous substrates. In contrast, monanthogynus was healthy on both soils, and had greater growth on limestone than on sandstone soil. Contrary to Steyermark's characterization, C. monanthogynus grows abundantly on limestone soils, but is rare or absent on Ozark sandstone outcrops, not because of substrate intolerance, but probably because of competing species there.
10.2307/3858397|Nitrogen and phosphorus were measured in large and small fully senesced leaves of Acer rubrum and Quercus alba to determine whether leaf size influences nutrient resorption proficiency. Large Acer leaves were  3.3 times higher in mass and surface area than small Acer leaves collected from the same individual trees, yet concentrations of nitrogen and phosphorus in large and small senesced leaves (i.e., resorption proficiency of these two nutrients) were identical. Large Quercus leaves were  2.8 times higher in mass and surface area than small Quercus leaves collected from the same individual trees, yet concentrations of nitrogen and phosphorus were nearly identical in large and small senesced leaves. Although there are theoretical reasons to expect leaf size to influence resorption, leaf size did not play a role in controlling nitrogen or phosphorus resorption proficiency in these two deciduous forest species.
4130975| Results are presented from a set of hydrographic surveys conducted within Mount Hope Bay, RI, during the summer of August, 1996. This sub-system of Narragansett Bay is interesting because it has two connections to the ocean and it has a source of thermal energy from the Brayton Point Power Plant. Data was collected on water velocity, salinity and temperature on days with relatively high ( 2 m range) and relatively low ( 1 m range) tidal forcing. Velocity data were collected along fixed transect lines defining the boundaries of the estuary and at fixed stations. Results show that flow through each of the oceanward entrances has significant horizontal and vertical structure. The source of fresh water is the Taunton River to the north, and at times, exchange through this interface exhibits vertically sheared flow. Exchange is dominated by flow through the interface with Narragansett Bay, where transports reach 3000 xm<sup>3</sup>/s and 6000 m<sup>3</sup>/s under conditions of low and high amplitude tidal forcing, respectively. Peak velocities exceed 100 cm/s. Values for transport though the smaller of the two salt water connections, with the Sakonnet River, and the fresh water entrance, at the interface with the Taunton River, were  10-20% of those through the interface with Narragansett Bay. Velocities are relatively sluggish in the shallow northern shelf region of the estuary, peaking at < 10 cm/s and  20 cm/s for the low and high tidal amplitude sampling periods, respectively. Temperature and salinity data reveal significant levels of stratification and suggest three end-member water sources including a deep Narragansett Bay source (cold, salty), a shallow river source (warm, fresh) and a source of water from the Brayton Point region (hot, intermediate salinity). A plug of warm water that evolves on the northern shelf over the ebb cycle of the tide is advected to the east-northeast into the shipping channel during the flood. Phase differences in total instantaneous transport through the two mouths of the system suggest that interactions with the Sakonnet River are dominated by the greater volume and efficiency of exchange with the East Passage of Narragansett Bay. Lateral variations in residual transport show East Passage water entering Mount Hope Bay through the deep central portion of the cross-section and exiting through confined regions along the edges of the interface. The pattern in residual exchange with the Sakonnet River shows water exiting and entering Mount Hope Bay through the western and eastern portions of the cross section, respectively. A conceptual model is suggested in which these lateral flow patterns combine with strong vertical mixing in the Sakonnet River Narrows to pump thermal energy downward in the water column and back northward into the bottom waters of Mount Hope Bay. 
3858420|Spatial and temporal segregation of six coexisting species of Ophiogomphus (O. anomalus, O. aspersus, O carolus, O. howei, O. mainensis, and O. rupinsulensis) were studied in a 137.7 km reach of the Aroostook River in northern Maine. Collections of exuviae showed that O. mainensis was most abundant and dominated the assemblage at sites in the upper reaches of the study area and was in low numbers and percent of total Ophiogomphus at sites in the lower reaches of the study area. Ophiogomphus rupinsulensis was most abundant and dominated the assemblage at sites in the lower reaches of the study area but was absent or in low numbers and percent of total Ophiogomphus at sites in the upper reaches. Ophiogomphus anomalus and O. carolus were present at all sites and O. anomalus was generally more abundant and made up a higher percent of the total Ophiogomphus spp. than O. carolus. Ophiogomphus howei and O. aspersus were present at only a few sites in low abundance and percent of the total Ophiogomphus. Several species of Ophiogomphus coexisted as larvae in 0.20 m<sup>2</sup> areas of the substrate. There was little evidence of temporal segregation among the six species. All species had short seasonal emergence periods in June. Diel emergence was during the morning and early afternoon. Timing of seasonal and diel emergence either differed little or not at all among the six species. Species that we were able to identify in all larval stages (O. mainensis, O. anomalus, and O. howei) were present in a wide range of instars on all sampling dates (May to October) suggesting overlapping generations and multivoltine life histories. In all six species, some larvae remained in the final instar for almost a year before emerging as adults.
40959758|The distribution of Sylvilagus obscurus (Appalachian Cottontail) is disjunct and restricted to high-elevation refuges in the central and southern Appalachian Mountains. The purpose of this study was to determine survival and winter diet of this rabbit at its type locality, the Dolly Sods area of the Monongahela National Forest, WV. To estimate survival, 44 Appalachian Cottontail individuals were radio-tracked until death or loss of transmitter signal between October 1997 and June 2000. The Kaplan-Meier estimate was used to generate finite survival rates. To assess winter diet, stems browsed within a 1-m radius of winter radiolocations of 15 individuals in 1998-1999 and 1999-2000 were identified and counted. Species and groups of species browsed were compared to availability, determined by counting the number of woody stems within a 1-m radius of the same radiolocations. Overall daily survival rate was 0.9934, finite monthly (28-day) survival rate was 0.8309, and finite yearly survival rate was 0.0894. No differences in survival were found between sexes or age groups. The first leaf-offseason had lower daily survival rates than those of the subsequent leaf-on and leaf-offseasons. Gaultheria procumbens (Eastern Teaberry), Vaccinium spp. (blueberries), Gaylussacia baccata (Black Huckleberry), and Photinia spp. (chokeberries) were preferred winter browse. Rhododendron spp. and the abundant Kalmia latifolia (Mountain Laurel) were consumed less than expected.
3858303|A survey of the algal flora for a minimally polluted stream in southeastern Ohio was conducted over a two-year period (17 sampling dates) as part of an all-taxa biotic survey. Four algal categories were sampled: macroalgae (readily visible with the naked eye), microalgae (associated with macroalgae), erosional periphyton (microalgae from riffles), and depositional periphyton (microalgae from pools). A total of 217 infrageneric taxa were collected. There were 25 cyanobacteria, 74 chlorophytes, 6 chrysophytes, 3 cryptophytes, 86 diatoms, 4 dinophytes, 12 euglenophytes, 1 raphidophyte, 3 rhodophytes, and 3 tribophytes. A seasonal trend was observed in species richness; fall had the most taxa (136), followed by winter (107), summer (100), and spring (82). Approximately half of the taxa occurred in samples from more than one season, but only 15% were present year-round. Overall, species richness was not correlated to any stream parameter. However, diatom species richness was positively correlated to pH, and both diatom and soft-bodied algal richness were negatively affected by nutrient loading. For the soft-bodied algae, the microalgae category was the most species-rich followed by the depositional periphyton, erosional periphyton, and macroalgae. For the diatoms, the depositional periphyton had higher species richness than the erosional periphyton. Five diatom and 17 soft-bodied algal taxa previously unreported from the Unglaciated Western Alleghany Plateau were identified from this stream reach. This study highlights the need for multiple samplings in different seasons to capture the total species richness, since only a small fraction of the taxa were collected year-round and one third of the diatoms collected were rare.
10.2307/3858475|Two kleptoparasitic scorpionflies, Panorpa rufescens Rambur (Mecoptera: Panorpidae), were observed stealing food from Araneus bicentenarius (McCook) (Araneae: Araneidae) at Waterboro Barrens Preserve, York County, Maine. The spider's ensnared prey was a larva of Lapara sp. (Lepidoptera: Sphingidae), which provided food for both spider and kleptoparasites. This is the first recorded instance of kleptoparasitism by scorpionflies on an orb-weaving spider in Maine.
41684231|Elemental concentrations and stable (O, C) isotopic ratios in otoliths of young-of-the year (YOY) Tautoga onitis (Tautog) captured in nurseries in Rhode Island, Connecticut, New Jersey, and Virginia were determined using otolith micro-chemistry. Multi-chemical signatures differed significantly among the distinct nurseries among regions (MANOVA: P < 0.001) and between years (MANOVA: P < 0.001). Classification accuracy for Tautog nurseries among regions ranged from 92% to 96% for each of the two years. Since accurate classification of juvenile Tautog to their nursery sites was achieved, otolith chemistry can potentially be used as a natural habitat tag in assigning adult Tautog to their respective estuarine nurseries, but it is important to consider that the chemical signals may change annually.
27744602|We provide locality data for stream populations of Procambarus clarkii (Red Swamp Crawfish) in Maryland. This non-native species is now established in 14 watersheds in the Coastal Plain, including all watersheds where it was historically raised in aquaculture ponds. Our surveys indicate that the introduction of Red Swamp Crawfish in Maryland has largely resulted from aquaculture, although the aquarium, biological supply, and live-bait industries are other potential vectors. The effects of Red Swamp Crawfish on the composition and diversity of stream fauna and flora in Maryland are unknown. The establishment of this species may have negative effects on native crayfishes, especially the congeneric P. acutus (White River Crawfish). These locality records provide baseline information for future monitoring of this non-native species and assessment of its effects on Maryland's stream ecosystems and native crayfishes.
10.2307/3858584|Air pollution is rightfully considered as a very real and important threat to our forests. However, determining the possible role of air pollutants in causing changes in forest health and productivity has been difficult. Ever-present diseases, insects, and abiotic stressors (and their continual interactions) must also be monitored to effectively determine what, if any, additional threat is being posed by air pollutants to forests. Recent forest health surveys in northeastern North America have failed to provide evidence of cause-effect for air pollutants as the most likely incitant of certain forest species declines, yet, the public has been led to believe that acid rain and air pollution have caused widespread mortality of forest trees. Recent surveys have proven that our forests are generally healthy and productive.
40664835|Moose have recently re-colonized the temperate forests of southern New England, raising questions about this herbivore's effect on forest dynamics in the region. We quantified Moose foraging selectivity and intensity on tree species in relation to habitat features in central Massachusetts. Acer rubrum (Red Maple) and Tsuga canadensis (Eastern Hemlock) were disproportionately browsed; Pinus strobus (White Pine) was avoided. Foraging intensity correlated positively with elevation, distance to development, and watershed type and negatively with time since forest harvest, explaining 26% of the variation. Moose may interact with forest harvesting to contribute to a decline in Red Maple and Eastern Hemlock and an increase in White Pine in intensively browsed patches. Nonetheless, foraging impacts may diminish over time, as increasing temperatures and sprawling development increasingly restrict suitable Moose habitat.
10.2307/3858405| Presented are records of species of Odonata not previously reported from the region and complete lists for the Atlantic Provinces, the Maritime Provinces, each province separately and significant subprovincial areas; with comments on distribution and a bibliography for the region. /// Ci-inclus, des fiches d'information sur des espces d'Odonates non enregistrs  date pour la rgion et des listes compltes pour les provinces de l'Atlantique, les provinces Maritimes, chaque province individuellement et des sous-rgions significatives; avec commentaires sur la distribution et une bibliographie pour la rgion. 
3858464|Larval midges in the genus Axarus are common macroinvertebrates in areas of the Connecticut River where varved clay substrates are found. Using SCUBA to make collections, we investigated the habitat use, species composition, and life history of the two Axarus species found in the river. Larvae were only found in clay or decaying wood, with a population density of 13,345 (4881) larvae/<tex-math>$\text{meter}^{2}$</tex-math> at one site. Two species were found co-existing in clays in northern sites, while only one species was found in southern collections. The species are temporally isolated, with adult emergence for the southern species preceding that of the northern species. Life history data are presented for the southern species, an undescribed taxon designated Axarus species varvestris. This species is univoltine with adult emergence taking place in late June in southern locations. The sex ratio at emergence was 1:1, and protandry was evident.
10.2307/3858398|A partial albino Storeria occipitomaculata occipitomaculata (Storer 1839) was field-collected in Vermont on 25 July 1998. The specimen (AMNH-R 144501) could be the only known partial albino specimen of the species and is one of only a few such snakes known from localities in the northeastern United States. The existence of color variations in wild snake populations is discussed.
27744559|Salt marshes provide important foraging habitats for wading birds (Ardeidae), and it has been suggested that the lack of suitable marsh habitats can limit the size of wading bird populations. It is therefore important to be able to accurately assess wading bird use of salt marshes over multiple spatial and temporal scales. The goal of this study was to determine how wading bird utilization of Narragansett Bay, RI salt marshes is affected by changing tide levels. Bird surveys were conducted across the tidal range at three different marshes. Wading birds foraged over much of the tidal cycle, but reverted to increased loafing during mid-tides when shallow foraging habitats were limited. Birds foraged in increasingly deeper water at higher tide stages rather than seeking out consistently shallow water over the tidal period. At Round Marsh, the primary study site, bird abundances were significantly related to tidal stages, but different patterns were observed at two additional sites. Wading bird abundance appears to depend on the availability of habitats that provide shallow foraging areas across tidal stages. Results from this study can be used to improve wading bird monitoring protocols and field studies on wading birds in salt marshes by ensuring that tidal stage is accounted for.
3858387|In the early 1940s, Maine's Norman Wallace Lermond (1861-1944) commenced writing his autobiography, which included his encounters with a number of historically prominent individuals. The autobiography was never completed, being cut short by Lermond's death. For over half a century, this document has lain undisturbed (and unread) among the files of the Department of Mollusks of Harvard University's Museum of Comparative Zoology. Lermond's unfinished autobiography, dealing primarily with his boyhood and his involvement with socialism, is reproduced here, with limited editing, as an historical document. Lermond was noteworthy for two reasons. First, he was one of the foremost naturalists in New England and labored tirelessly to interest and organize both professionals and amateurs alike to study the natural history of Maine. Second, Lermond was among the vanguard in the development of socialism in this country and once even ran for governor of Maine (in 1900) on the Socialist ticket. Supplemental material is provided herein of Lermond's contributions to natural history, including a list of his scientific publications.
10.2307/3858596|The purpose of this study was to assess the status of the newly introduced Japanese shore crab (Hemigrapsus sanguineus) at Greenwich Point, Connecticut and consider its population size relative to the crab populations already established at that location. A survey was conducted during the summer of 1997, and consisted of randomly sampling 0.5 m<sup>2</sup> plots along the exposed rocky intertidal zone. A total of 1,103 crabs was captured, and more Japanese shore crabs were found per sample than all other crab species combined. The data suggest that H. sanguineus is well established at Greenwich Point.
3858299|The first pelecinid wasp in Cretaceous amber is described and figured from a single male preserved in Turonian (ca. 90 Ma) amber from New Jersey. Henopelecinus pygmaeus, new genus and new species, is most notable for its minute body size (ca. 6.5 mm) and unexpanded sixth metasomal segment. The fossil is compared to other genera of Pelecinidae including those taxa of the controversial extinct "family" Iscopinidae.
43288167|Cryptobranchus alleganiensis alleganiensis (Eastern Hellbender) is an environmentally sensitive species that has experienced range-wide population declines. Diurnal rock-turning surveys were conducted in southern WV during the summer and fall of 2006 to assess the species' population status in this area and to examine the relationship between stream physico-chemical characteristics and site occupancy. Survey results suggest that Eastern Hellbender populations are rare in southern WV, with Eastern Hellbender present at only =15% of all sites surveyed and only =20% of sites where they have been documented historically. Logistic regression models showed that presence of increased gravel substrate and specific conductivity reduced the probability of site occupancy by Eastern Hellbenders. It is not clear why a higher proportion of gravel substrate negatively affected site occupancy, because gravel should benefit Eastern Hellbender populations by providing larval habitat and habitat for prey species. The effect of specific conductivity may indicate a negative impact of watershed disturbance on populations. This explanation is supported by a principal component analysis of habitat characteristics followed by logistic regression, which demonstrated that sites with habitat characteristics indicative of more degraded sites (e.g., higher specific conductivity) decreased the probability of a site being occupied by Eastern Hellbenders. The results of our study suggest that Eastern Hellbender populations may be severely threatened in southern WV and that site occupancy by Eastern Hellbenders is related to both the physical nature of stream substrate and to water quality characteristics. Furthermore, this study indicates a need for research investigating the potential for human land-use to adversely affect Eastern Hellbenders.
41429422|Thalassarche melanophrys (Black-browed Albatross) has rarely been sighted in the northwest Atlantic, with fewer than 30 anecdotal and fewer than 10 confirmed sightings spanning the West Indies north to Greenland. On 8 August 2009, a Black-browed Albatross was observed from a longliner conducting an exploratory Chionoecetes opilio (Snow Crab) survey, off the coast of northern Labrador. This sighting currently represents the most northerly record for continental North America. The only more northerly records are two specimens seen off Greenland. Blackbrowed Albatrosses have been seen more frequently, though rarely, in the eastern North Atlantic, while they have yet to be documented in the north Pacific. Given the higher frequency of sightings along the European coast, it may be that the majority of Black-browed Albatrosses crossing the equator are traveling up the African coast. Black-browed sightings on the Atlantic coast of North America therefore may originate in northern Europe, or from birds traveling along the Atlantic coast of South America.
3858458|A long-tailed shrew (Sorex dispar) taken in the Nerepis Hills in south-central New Brunswick, significantly narrows the distributional gap between the known range of S. dispar in Maine and shrews from southeastern New Brunswick and Nova Scotia. The Nerepis Hills are also only the second New Brunswick locality for this rare shrew and suggests that S. dispar is contiguously distributed in appropriate habitat from New England across southern New Brunswick and into the Cobequid Mountains of Nova Scotia. Hilly or upland areas with steep slopes and varying amounts of rock outcrop and talus are present throughout the Nerepis Hills, indicating that S. dispar may occur throughout this region.
4499924|The habitat use and activity range of Lampropeltis getula getula (Eastern Kingsnake) in the New Jersey Pine Barrens were studied from 1996-1998. Five male and four non-gravid female Eastern Kingsnakes were routinely radiotracked during daylight hours during one or two active seasons. Habitat and climatic conditions at snake locations were characterized using 9 climatic and 14 structural habitat features. Multivariate statistical comparisons with randomly selected locations indicated that Eastern Kingsnakes use available habitat in a non-random fashion with respect to microhabitat features (Wilks' lambda = 0.511; df = 28, 1066; P < 0.01). Eastern Kingsnakes preferred sites with thick leaf litter and dense shrub-layer foliage. They used a broad range of macrohabitats that spanned both wetland and pine-dominated upland areas. Moist areas were used for hibernation. Snakes exhibited a largely fossorial lifestyle, spending a great proportion of their time concealed under the cover of soil and/or leaf litter (79% of observations). Climatic conditions at selected sites did not differ between males and females. Analysis of movements revealed an affinity for specific locations within their established activity ranges. Males and females did not differ with respect to their activity ranges or measured movement patterns (e.g., mean distance traveled/day, total distance moved, range length).
4499899|The purpose of the study was to estimate seasonal home ranges of Sylvilagus obscurus (Appalachian cottontail) within dense ericaceous and coniferous cover at its type locality, the Dolly Sods Scenic Area in West Virginia. Ninety-five percent adaptive kernel (AK) home ranges of rabbits ranged from 5.7-13.3 ha during the leaf-on season (May-September; n = 5) and 1.5-9.0 ha during the leaf-off season (October-April; n = 14). Fifty-percent AK core areas ranged from 0.9-2.5 ha during the leaf-on season and 0.1-2.5 ha during the leaf-off season. Males occupied larger home ranges during the leaf-on than leaf-off season, but female ranges did not differ seasonally. These results demonstrate seasonal differences in spatial and associated resource requirements of Appalachian cottontails and the need for large tracts of appropriate habitat for travel lanes to maintain viable populations of this species.
3858382|Insular Newfoundland lacks native amphibians, however four species have been successfully introduced. We surveyed 90 sites in western New-foundland to determine current species distribution and to evaluate the influence of aquatic and terrestrial habitat characteristics on anuran distribution and dispersal potential. Wood frog (Rana sylvatica) presence (19 sites) was not significantly related to any measured variable. American Toad (Bufo americanus) (52 sites) and Green Frog (Rana clamitans) presence (25 sites) was significantly related to dissolved oxygen. Toad presence was also related to marsh abundance, while Green Frog presence was related to site permanence and presence of human residences. Mink frog (Rana septentrionalis) was found at one site only.
10.2307/3858703|In this paper, I review major historical conservation events, changes in landscape (cover types) patterns, and agency (state and federal) inventory and monitoring programs to help explain trends in terrestrial vertebrate populations in Pennsylvania. I then give recommendations for the long-term conservation of terrestrial vertebrates within the context of a future changing landscape in the Commonwealth. In Pennsylvania, the amount of forest has remained relatively constant since the 1970s, while the extent of early successional, grassland, and wetland/riparian habitats is declining. These trends, combined with direct human disturbance, degradation of water quality, and loss of critical habitat features have contributed to the endangered or threatened status of 31 vertebrate species in the state. Based on two major databases, the Pennsylvania Breeding Bird Survey and the Pennsylvania Breeding Bird Atlas, bird species occupying early successional, grassland, or wetland/riparian habitats, in particular, have generally shown negative trends in abundance and distribution, respectively. According to the Pennsylvania Gap Analysis Project, highest species richness or "hotspots" of mammals and birds are in areas with expanses of intact forest, as on public lands in the north central part of the state. The future conservation status of terrestrial vertebrates is contingent on several factors, ranging from wise stewardship of public and private lands to an understanding of the impacts of global climate change on vertebrate populations. Among the conservation recommendations are the need to improve connectivity among wildlands, understand the long-term impact of landscape changes on wildlife biodiversity, and develop databases on abundance and distributional trends of terrestrial vertebrate populations.
40664846|Two sympatric owl species, Tyto alba (Barn Owl) and Asio otus (Longeared Owl), are found in Lewisburg, PA. These species are of similar size, have similar hunting styles, and most likely use similar prey items. In studying the diets of these two owl species, we were able to determine their prey selection, the types and relative abundance of prey in the area, and how these sympatric predators may be partitioning their resources. A total of 80 pellets (40 from Barn Owls and 40 from Long-eared Owls) were analyzed to understand their diets. Pellets were collected from two locations in Lewisburg, PA approximately 2 km apart. Cranial and postcranial remains within the owl pellets were used to identify species by comparing them against our reference collections and keys. Typically, the Barn Owl is present in Lewisburg from late spring through fall and the Long-eared Owl from late fall through spring. Barn Owl pellets contained a greater number of larger-sized prey than Long-eared Owl pellets. Both owl species rely heavily upon rodents as their primary food source, which make up over 90% of their diets. Temporal differences and differences in prey selectivity are most likely the major factors allowing these species to share their common resources.
27744549|Surveys of dragonfly exuviae have been used to assess rare species' habitats, lake water quality status, and wetland restoration programs. Knowledge of the persistence of exuviae on various substrates is necessary to accurately interpret exuvial surveys. In 2006, we recorded exuvial persistence at defined areas in a variety of small freshwater wetlands in Rhode Island. Exuviae were field-identified, labeled with small daubs of nail polish, and observed every three weeks from June through September. Overall, exuvial persistence displayed exponential decline, disappearing rapidly during the first few weeks, and more slowly thereafter. The initial rate of decline was similar for most species, but differed in some taxa. There was no significant difference in exuvial retention on emergent vegetation vs. rock substrate.
41495811|Alyssum bracteatum is the first Ni hyperaccumulator reported from serpentine soils of western Iran. In this study, uptake and accumulation of Co by a serpentine and a non-serpentine population of this species were tested under controlled conditions. Seedlings of A. bracteatum were grown in different concentrations of Co (0, 2, 5, 10, 15, and 30 mg Co L ) in solution culture (perlite) for 21 days. Tolerance to Co of serpentine population seedlings was significantly greater than the Co tolerance of seedlings from the non-serpentine population. Analysis of shoots and roots showed that the concentration of Co in both populations of A. bracteatum increased with increasing Co in solution culture, but amounts of Co in the shoots of non-serpentine plants were significantly less than those in serpentine plants. Plants of the serpentine population contained as much as 1830 g Co g dry weight when grown in 15 mg Co L conditions, showing that this species is capable of hyperaccumulating Co under solution culture conditions.
3858506|We examined the influence of habitat type (wooded, open, or edge) on behavioral responses of avian scavengers (Black Vultures [Coragyps atratus Bechstein], Turkey Vultures [Cathartes aura Linnaeus], American Crows [Corvus brachyrhynchos Brehm], and Blue Jays [Cyanocitta cristata Linnaeus]) at Gettysburg National Military Park (Gettysburg Park), PA, during winter of 2000 and 2001. We baited 18 sites once during January 2000-March 2000 and again during December 2000-March 2001 with the soft tissue of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus Zimmerman) for one 3-hour sampling period. We observed at least one scavenger species at bait areas (75-m radius of bait) in 97% of the 36 three-hour sampling periods; bait was eaten during 50% of the sampling periods. Turkey Vultures arrived first at bait areas most often, but American Crows were usually the species we observed eating the bait first. We observed Turkey Vultures most frequently (present in 14% of the 5-minute intervals) at bait areas, followed by American Crows (12%), Blue Jays (9%), and Black Vultures (6%). We observed Turkey Vultures, Black Vultures, and Blue Jays more commonly at bait areas in wooded habitat compared with those in open or edge habitat. In contrast, American Crows were more common at bait areas in open or edge habitat than in wooded habitat. Turkey Vultures presumably were more vigilant (i.e., higher percentage of pausing) in wooded habitat than in open and edge habitat, Black Vultures were more vigilant in edge habitat, and American Crows were more vigilant in wooded and edge habitats than in open habitats. Because we observed Black Vultures more frequently at bait areas with Turkey Vultures than alone and Black Vultures arrived at bait areas later than the other species, Black Vultures seem to use the presence of other species, specifically Turkey Vultures, to find food.
4130730|Alexander von Humboldt has been a neglected figure in American intellectual and cultural history. His visit to the United States in 1804, his many connections with American scientists, explorers, politicians, writers, and artists, and the wide popularity of his books, all show Humboldt to be of great significance to nineteenth-century America. This essay traces the course of Humboldt's fame in Victorian America, the reasons for his special connection with the United States and for the precipitous decline in his reputation, and closes with a consideration of Humboldt's legacy in American art and literature.
4130984|Old-growth forests are currently identified as core components of regional conservation and forest-reserve planning efforts by agencies and organizations across the northeastern United States. Despite the importance of these ecosystems from an ecological and conservation standpoint, major questions remain concerning their actual extent, location, and configuration in many states. Here we report a substantially revised estimate for individual tracts and the total area of old-growth forests in Massachusetts based on analysis of historical documents and extensive field research and mapping. We estimate that the total area of old-growth in the state is 453 ha, in 33 stands that range from 1.2 to 80.9 ha in size. Over 80% of these forests occur in the Berkshire Hills and Taconic Mountains in the extreme western part of the state. These forests are structurally unique and contain some of the oldest documented Tsuga canadensis (hemlock) and Picea rubens (red spruce) in New England, as well as the second-oldest documented Betula lenta (black birch) in the country. Due to their relatively small size and isolated character, these areas are susceptible to human and natural disturbance and require protection, including substantial buffer areas. Old-growth stands will enhance the value and function of designated forest reserves and will gradually become surrounded by forests of increasingly similar structure and ecosystem characteristics.
4130991|A qualitative mussel survey was performed on Muddy Creek, a tributary to French Creek in Crawford County, PA, within the boundaries of the Erie National Wildlife Refuge. Riffle-run-pool sequences were sampled at 20 locations in the study area using visual and tactile timed-search techniques. Live specimens represented by 22 species were encountered at a rate of 54 individuals per person-hour and included the federally-endangered Pleurobema clava (clubshell) and Epioblasma torulosa rangiana (northern riffleshell) as well as four Pennsylvania state-imperiled species. Evidence of recruitment in the clubshell population was found in excavated quadrats and by hand-collecting. Brillouin diversity indices ranged from 0.35-2.88 over the study area, with a mean (SD) of 1.67 (0.59). The three most abundant species were Actinonaias ligamentina, Amblema plicata, and Lasmigona costata, while the three most rare were Anodontoides ferussacianus, E. torulosa rangiana, and Villosa fabalis. The high diversity of mussels along with the presence of federally listed and state-imperiled species warrants a pro-active approach to future protection of the aquatic resources of Muddy Creek.
10.2307/3858431|Some 92 terrestrial gastropods, representing 2 orders and 19 families, have been reported from Maine. These animals consist of 76 species of snails (16 families) and 16 species of slugs (3 families). The taxonomic status of two of the snails is questionable. Twelve species and varieties of snails have their type localities in Maine. Four of the snails and 11 of the slugs were introduced into Maine from Europe. An additional 21 species are apparently native to both Maine and Europe. Sixty-three terrestrial gastropods have been collected in Cumberland County alone, followed by Aroostook County with 57 species. Four snails have been reported from all 16 of Maine's counties: Strobilops labyrinthicus, Discus whitneyi, Novisuccinea ovalis, and Zonitoides arboreus.
43288165|The primary objective of this study was to compare urban and peri-urban mammal assemblages and relate variation in these communities to local differences in vegetation. We surveyed 15 locations in both urban and peri-urban habitats (n = 30). Boundaries of our survey areas coincided with those of National Park Service (NPS) areas in central Virginia. Over a 14-month period, we used five trap-types to document species in three guilds. A total of 9 and 15 species were documented at urban and peri-urban locations, respectively. Top predators Canis latrans (Coyote) and Felis rufus (Bobcat) were undetected at urban sites, while mesopredators were consistently more abundant. The absence of four small prey species and reduced abundances of the most common native generalist, Peromyscus leucopus (White-footed Mouse), were also associated with urban locations. Multivariate analyses of relative abundance data indicated significantly dissimilar mammal communities in urban and peri-urban locations. Shrub cover was highest in peri-urban locations, while grass cover was highest in urban sitesa pattern that was only marginally significant due to greater variability among these sites. The exotic grass Microstegium vimineum (Japanese Stiltgrass) was present at several urban sites and contributed to the complex relationship between percent grass cover and the small-mammal assemblages that we surveyed. Our results suggest that disturbances that reduce the recruitment of shrubs and other native plants and promote the spread of invasive grasses may have severe consequences for smallmammal communities. In addition, culturally preserved areas within both survey sites (i.e., battlefields planted with fescue grasses) were inhospitable to most small-mammal species and wildlife in general. In many NPS areas, there is great opportunity for development of adaptive management strategies that integrate ongoing NPS efforts to control invasive plant species with the enhancement of wildlife habitat in both culturally and naturally preserved areas. There is an urgent need for the conservation of native habitat in NPS areas and nonpark sites threatened by urbanization. The primary focus of these efforts should include the control of exotic species and mesopredators, facilitation of native shrub recruitment, and, in many of these areas, the ecological restoration of historic sites. NPS lands in urbanized areas offer unique conditions for wildlife management and abundant opportunities for conserving native communities.
41684233|Amphibians and other herpetofauna may be useful in assessing the biological integrity of small streams, so determining which sampling technique maximizes encounters is important. Area-constrained surveys (ACS), used by the Maryland Biological Stream Survey, were tested against cover-board surveys, drift fences with pitfall and funnel traps, quadrat leaf-litter searches, leaf-litter bags, and electrofishing. Twenty sites within the coastal plain region of Maryland, west of the Chesapeake Bay, were sampled with each technique once a month from June 2006 through August 2006. Overall, ACS and electrofishing yielded significantly more taxa and total individuals than cover-board surveys, quadrat searches, and leaf-litter bags; drift fence captures were moderate between ACS and electrofishing and the other methods. Electrofishing and ACS collected both more taxa and more individuals more reliably through time than the other techniques used; therefore, efforts to use herpetofauna to monitor the health of small streams will benefit from incorporating these methods into a sampling protocol.
10.2307/3858444|Since 1996, Nova Scotia Plantwatch has collected earliest flower dates for 12 plant species at 200 sites in Nova Scotia. The initial results for 1996-1998 are compared with records collected by MacKay between 1892 and 1923. Although the Mackay data were from a colder climatic interval in the Northern Hemisphere, most flowering dates are not significantly different from the present warmer (+0.5 - 0.7C) period except during the 1998 season of record warmth. The only two species that showed significant differences are Epigaea repens and Syringa vulgaris. While E. repens showed significant later recent dates of first bloom, S. vulgaris showed earlier dates. Some of the variation within the province may be linked to oceanic influence; other variation reflects latitudinal gradients. These phenological results are compatible with other evidence that the average spring climate of the Atlantic Canada region has remained cool since 1948, but the early flowering in 1998 may be a response to a warming trend in the western part of the region.
4131007|Georges Island supports an unusually dense and morphologically diverse population of Thamnophis sirtalis pallidulus. Between May and October 1993, a total of 391 garter snakes were marked. The total male:female ratio was 0.8:1.0; population density of snakes > 1 year old was minimally estimated at 120/ha. Thamnophis sirtalis pallidulus on Georges Island were docile: 50% of encounters showed no response or only a delayed anti-predator response to human handling. The population is unusual morphologically; it contains melanistic and partly melanistic individuals and an unusually high proportion (48%) of individuals with abnormal ventral and/or subcaudal scales. Adult garter snakes on Georges Island are slightly smaller than adults in mainland Nova Scotia populations. Despite a less diverse diet than is available to its mainland counterparts, the island population appears to thrive.
4499893|The epiphytic corticolous moss Dicranum montanum, a common inhabitant of upland Quercus rubra (northern red oak) trunks in southwestern Pennsylvania, is a useful biomonitor to evaluate levels of total mercury (Hg) in stemflow within mixed-oak forests. Moss samples were collected annually during October-November of 2000-2005 at 11 permanent research plots on a ridgetop and analyzed for total-Hg concentrations. The mean total-Hg concentration in moss tissue across all 11 plots for all 6 years (n = 66) was 424 ng/g dry wt. Total Hg for 9 of the 11 plots exhibited a downward time trend during the 6-year period; the trend line for the remaining two plots was nearly horizontal. When all data were combined, the linear regression based on mean Hg values for all plots was significant at p = 0.028 over the 6-year study period, with an adjusted R-square of 67.6%. This downward trend likely reflects reduction of airborne Hg emissions in the region due to several factors, including closure of steel mills and coke ovens in the Johnstown-Pittsburgh area, cobenefit of sulfur dioxide emissions controls, and reduction of Hg emissions from municipal and hospital incinerators.
25177143|The original Picea rubens (Red Spruce) forest in West Virginia covered approximately 1.5 million acres, most of which was eliminated between 1870 and 1920 by clear-cutting and conflagrations. The total range of Plethodon nettingi (Cheat Mountain Salamander) was confined within this Red Spruce forest. Fires burned the duff and soil to the bedrock in many places, thus eliminating salamander habitats. It is hypothesized that Cheat Mountain Salamanders were eradicated throughout much of their range, and only areas with large emergent rocks or boulder fields provided refugia where they survived.
27744590|Ceryle alcyon (Belted Kingfisher) and Riparia riparia (Bank Swallow) rely on vertical eroded banks for nesting. We inventoried Belted Kingfisher and Bank Swallow nesting banks along a 91.6-km section of the Connecticut River in Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and Vermont, including stretches where bank stabilization projects are completed, under construction, or planned. In the case of Bank Swallows, we also assessed the availability of potential nesting habitat in the study area. Forty-four Belted Kingfisher nesting sites and 12 Bank Swallow colonies were detected in the study area. Both species used banks with a low percentage of vegetative cover and a steep slope. Belted Kingfishers used high narrow banks. Bank Swallows used wide banks composed of well-drained, fine sandy loam soils. Potential Bank Swallow nesting sites were limited and in comparison to the sites actually used by Bank Swallows, they were narrower, more vegetated, and composed of more coarse soils. The impact of bank stabilization on Belted Kingfishers is probably minimal. However, bank stabilization eliminated three of twelve Bank Swallow colony sites that served as habitat for 20% of nesting pairs in the study area between 1999 and 2005.
10.2307/3858276|Migrating Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar), captured during their ascent of the fishway at the lowermost dam on the Penobscot River, were examined for external parasites and lamprey (Petromyzon marinus) wounds. At least one of three species of sea lice (parasitic crustaceans), Argulus canadensis, Caligus elongatus, and Lepeophtheirus salmonis, was observed on 189 of the 2,045 fish examined. Eighty-three salmon had lamprey wounds, with two of these fish also carrying lice. While lamprey wounds occurred on multi sea-winter fish in June and July, lice were observed almost exclusively in July on one sea-winter salmon (grilse) and multi sea-winter fish. Both groups of parasites infected male and female fish in proportion to fish sexes in the population. Fish parasitized with lice carried an average of 3.5 lice/fish, with a range from one to 33. Most of the copepods were pre-adult, indicating recent attachment to the host. The numbers of parasites on migrating salmon in the Penobscot are probably insufficient to affect freshwater survival.
43287118|Ninety species of Odonata are now verified by specimens for Wayne County, MI, a highly urbanized county in the southeastern corner of the state. This total represents 54% of the total number recorded in the state of Michigan. Thirty-three species not previously reported from Wayne County have been collected since 2000, despite a long history of collecting in the area and relatively little remaining appropriate habitat. These results suggest previous workers may have neglected to do much serious collecting here, and emphasize the need for collecting and monitoring Odonata in urban areas.
41495809|Serpentine outcrops around the world are known to harbor disproportionately high rates of plant endemism. Remarkable cases of serpentine endemism occur in New Caledonia and Cuba, with 3178 and 920 endemic taxa, respectively, found solely on serpentine. Despite the patchy occurrence of serpentine in eastern North America from Qubec and Newfoundland south to Alabama, only one taxon, Cerastium velutinum var. villosissimum, has been broadly recognized as a serpentine endemic for the region. Based on reports in the literature, we suggest that Adiantum viridimontanum, Minuartia marcescens, and Symphyotrichum rhiannon be considered endemic to serpentine soils from the east coast of North America. Aspidotis densa, with several disjunct populations on and off serpentine in western North America, is known solely from serpentine soils where it occurs in eastern North America and should be considered endemic to the substrate there. The geobotany of eastern North America in general is poorly understood, and additional taxonomic studies on the region's unique geologic substrates will likely yield further edaphic endemics.
10.2307/3858556|A brief review of the taxonomic history and integrity of selected North American branchiobdellidans is given to clarify their current status. The zoogeographical distribution of branchiobdellidans on the North American continent is presented based on published reports and information in the Catalog of the National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, DC. These data are tabulated by species with locations referenced to zoogeographical subregions, political units of provinces, states, or countries, and source citations. Distributional anomalies of certain taxa are discussed.
60225645|Cobscook Bay, at the mouth of the Bay of Fundy, exhibits extraordinary natural productivity and ecological richness that has been recognized for millennia. The co-existence of so many remarkable ecological attributes is of both practical and scientific interest and has intrigued researchers for over a century. Nevertheless, the question of why this high productivity and species richness should co-occur in this mid-latitude Bay has not been addressed on an ecosystem level. A grant from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation through The Nature Conservancy allowed an interdisciplinary, multi-institutional team of marine scientists to investigate the physical, chemical, geological, and biological dynamics of the Bay in an integrated ecosystem context. This special issue of the Northeastern Naturalist presents the results of original field research on the physical forcing functions at work in the Bay and the contributions of the principal primary producers. This knowledge is combined with historical information into an energy systems model and emergy analysis that describes the flows of materials and energy through the system and allows comparisons with other estuarine systems.
4130990|Native and exotic haplotypes of Phragmites australis show differential susceptibility to herbivores, but the mechanisms behind these differences are not known. Endophytic fungi are common in the grass family and confer resistance against insects through the production of toxic chemicals. We used both a common endophyte-staining technique and interference contrast microscopy to analyze leaf sheaths of native and exotic P. australis haplotypes from several populations in the northeastern United States to determine if the various haplotypes were infected with endophytes. No endophytes were found in any of the native and exotic haplotypes using procedures that consistently detected endophytes in infected rye grass.
10.2307/3858321|Global biological diversity has come under increasing pressure from the spread of invasive alien species. Unchecked spread of non-native species often results in habitat degradation and can decimate populations of rare and endemic species. The shortcomings of an exotic species control program that fails to integrate ecology and policy is illustrated through our examination of a non-indigenous plant species, purple loosestrife (Lythrum salicaria L.), in Rhode Island. Our study addresses the efficacy of Rhode Island's current control program for this weedy invader and recommends changes, including the adoption of a noxious weed law.
10.2307/3858708|Conservation of bees is of growing concern in many areas of the world due to their importance as pollinators. In northeastern North America at least eight species of Osmia (Megachilidae) pollinate Vaccinium angustifolium Ait, lowbush blueberry. Local populations of native wild bees in many Maine fields are presently below levels necessary to adequately pollinate the crop without reliance on rented honey bees. Nesting sites are an essential and often limiting resource for native bees. Since 1993 we have been investigating the effect of providing artificial nesting sites, wooden trap-nest blocks, on populations. Visual estimates of Osmia spp. densities from m<sup>2</sup> plot counts and sweep net samples during blueberry bloom indicate Osmia populations increased in two of the three fields that had trap-nest blocks provided. In contrast, populations did not increase in the three fields where nesting blocks had been provided.
41429231|Sixty percent of Maryland's odonate species are considered to be in need of conservation. To prioritize areas for the protection of biodiversity, the Maryland Department of Natural Resources (MD DNR) has identified 10 watersheds with the highest rates of occurrence of imperiled and rare stream species, including odonates. We examined the lotic-breeding odonate fauna of two of these high priority watersheds to determine the distribution and status of several imperiled odonate species in Maryland. Odonate nymphs from two Lower Potomac River basin watersheds, Zekiah Swamp Run and Breton Bay, were collected by volunteers and MD DNR's Maryland Biological Stream Survey from 2000-2010 and were identified to species level when possible. Thirty-four species were collected during this survey, 10 of which are state-listed species. The data collected in this survey detail the distributions, habitats, and microhabitats of rare odonates in two priority watersheds in Maryland that can be used to aid in the conservation of these species and their habitats.
3858309|Phoca groenlandica (harp seals) and Cystophora cristata (hooded seals), two species of ice-breeding seals, are being sighted more frequently onshore in the Gulf of Maine since 1990, but little is known about their behavior in this ecosystem. We obtained records of 904 ice-breeding seal stranding locations in the Gulf of Maine between 1996 and 2002 from NOAA Fisheries and used a geographic information system (GIS) to conduct group-wise comparisons by species (using non-parametric techniques), and to determine the predictors of high seal-stranding density (using ordinal logistic regression analysis). Compared to harp seals, hooded seals stranded closer to deep water, farther north, and near different intertidal shoreline types. Predictors of high seal-stranding density included being closer to an offshore basin, deep water, public land, and areas of lower human population. These results may reflect seal behavior and reporting bias.
10.2307/3858647|We discuss the distribution and native status of 24 minnow species (family: Cyprinidae) collected at 203 randomly selected lakes in the northeastern USA (New England, New York, New Jersey) by the Environmental Monitoring and Assessment Program (EMAP). Twenty-four species were collected during the summers of 1991-96. Only golden shiner was frequently collected, occurring in 71% of the sampled lakes. Fallfish, creek chub, and common shiner were also common. The remaining species were taken in <10% of the lakes. Physical (surface area, depth, elevation), chemical (pH, total phosphorus), and watershed disturbance characteristics of the lakes show distinct species-specific patterns. Evidence suggests that native minnow biodiversity has declined over the last 150 years as a result of changing biotic, physical, chemical, and watershed characteristics.
43288163|The freshwater amphipod, Gammarus fasciatus, and a population that keys to Gammarus pseudolimnaeus are broadly sympatric in southeastern Virginia. By documenting the successful formation of pre-copulatory mate-guarding pairs between individuals collected from Virginia and New York, we confirmed the occurrence of a G. pseudolimnaeus population strongly disjunct from the previously described range in the Mississippi and St. Lawrence River drainage basins. Gammarus pseudolimnaeus appears restricted to high-quality, spring-fed streams that occur at low density across an increasingly fragmented natural landscape in Virginia. Gammarus fasciatus, however, occurs in lakes and streams of developed landscapes that typically are more degraded, and this species does not co-occur with G. pseudolimnaeus in high-quality habitat. Gammarus pseudolimnaeus reproduces year-round, with adults and juveniles of all size classes continuously present. Gammarus fasciatus reproduces primarily from February through June, at which point the adults die, and by late summer the population consists solely of immature individuals. If the two species overlapped in distribution, the smaller Gammarus fasciatus amphipods would have to compete with adult G. pseudolimnaeus for resources. We hypothesize that this competitively disadvantageous life cycle could account, in part, for the absence of G. fasciatus in high-quality streams occupied by G. pseudolimnaeus.
10.2307/3858394|Total mercury (Hg) content was determined in an epiphytic moss (Dicranum montanum Hedw.); a corticolous macrolichen (Punctelia subrudecta (Nyl.) Krog) growing on tree bark; tree foliage from black cherry (Prunus serotina Ehrh.), red maple (Acer rubrum L.) and northern red oak (Quercus rubra L.); red oak leaf litter (freshly fallen leaves); the organic soil horizon; and mineral soil within an oak forest in southwestern Pennsylvania during 1999. Mean Hg concentrations of tree leaves and red oak litter were low (averaging 0.05 to 0.10 g/g). The mineral soil contained slightly higher Hg contents (0.12 g/g). Total Hg concentrations in the lichen species, organic soil horizon, and the epiphytic moss averaged 0.18, 0.43 and 0.50 g/g, respectively. Based on these results, we selected the epiphytic moss and organic soil horizon for use in future studies as biomonitors to evaluate spatial and temporal variations of Hg within the mixed-hardwood forests of Pennsylvania.
40959757|We evaluated thirteen years (1995-2007) of Charadrius melodus (Piping Plover) nesting activity at Jones Beach State Park (JBSP) to examine temporal trends in the number of pairs, productivity, total young produced per year, and nest initiation. The number of plover pairs has decreased over time at JBSP, while productivity (and total number of young produced per year) has increased. Productivity has increased more at JBSP compared to other areas in their range. In addition, nest initiation was significantly later in the nesting season in recent years. Increased productivity indicates that management efforts to increase this population parameter may have had a positive effect on nesting plovers. The decreased numbers of nesting pairs, however, suggests that management techniques to increase numbers of breeding pairs, such as nesting-habitat restoration, may also be necessary to increase local population size. In the absence of suitable nesting habitat for recruitment of locally fledged birds, JBSP may be functioning as a "source" for other regional breeding populations.
43287115|In southern Ontario, Canada, the range and distribution of bats is well known, but their activity in the northeastern part of the province (north of 47N, east of 85W) is poorly documented. Using acoustic sampling, we documented the occurrence of six species of bats in the boreal forest of northeastern Ontario: Eptesicus fuscus (Big Brown Bat), Lasiurus borealis (Eastern Red Bat), L. cinereus (Hoary Bat), Myotis lucifugus (Little Brown Bat), M. septentrionalis (Northern Long-eared Bat), and Lasionycteris noctivagans (Silver-haired Bat). Hoary Bats were recorded more frequently than all other species. Little Brown Bats were second-most frequently recorded, and the remaining four species were encountered (mean number passes/hour) significantly less often. Our records are the most northerly for Big Brown Bats in this part of Ontario. Although the other species were expected in this area, this is the first study to identify and confirm the bats present in the boreal forest of northeastern Ontario. This new information will contribute to efforts to conserve biodiversity in the province and may inform future studies or monitoring programs associated with the spread of white-nose syndrome in Ontario.
25177097|There are at least eight species of Impatiens (Jewelweeds) in the northeast, including native and non-native species, species of temperate and subtropical origins, and wild and planted species. The two native jewelweeds, I. capensis and I. pallida, are common in the region, and I. capensis has been introduced in Europe. Impatiens glandulifera is a non-native species that is locally well established and has the potential to become invasive in the region. The introduced I. balfourii and I. parviflora infrequently naturalize in the Northeast. Three Impatiens species of tropical origins, I. balsamina, I. walleriana, and I. hawkeri, may be able to establish in the Northeast with continued horticultural pressure. We review the descriptions and known distributions of these species, the direct experimental comparisons of their biological traits, and the histories of their introductions and horticultural uses. Such information is beneficial for assessing the invasive potential of these species in the northeast and abroad, and may help to set priorities for control efforts and regulation of horticultural uses.
10.2307/3858669|Dendronotus frondosus (Ascanius 1774) is a common inhabitant of the intertidal zone of the lower Bay of Fundy. This nudibranch experiences great daily fluctuations in physical conditions that affect all aspects of its life cycle. We examined the effect of temperature (5, 11, and 15 C) on the development time of eggs of an intertidal population of this species. Eggs developed more slowly at 5 C than at 11 C and did not develop past the second polar body stage at 15 C. The effect of this difference in development time may be to compress the settlement period to span less time than the oviposition period.
10.2307/3858597|Since the mid 19th century, only eight records of hooded seals (Cystophora cristata) have been documented from the Bay of Fundy and northern Gulf of Maine. Between 1994 and 1998 thirty-one additional records have been reported, suggesting a recent and dramatic increase in this ice-breeding seal in the region.
40664877|Ondatra zibethicus (Muskrat) is one of the most widely distributed furbearers in eastern North America. Anecdotal evidence suggests that Muskrats are experiencing a regional decline in numbers, although little empirical evidence exists to support this claim. Our objectives were to document temporal trends in Muskrat harvest in eastern North America, and to use the relationship between harvest and pelt price to infer potential trends in regional Muskrat populations. Muskrat harvest has declined by approximately 75% since 1986 in eastern North America, despite a recent resurgence in pelt prices. Recent harvest rates showed little correlation (r = 0.355-0.559) with current or time-lagged pelt prices, despite large correlations (r = 0.785-0.823) between pelt price and harvest from historic data (1948-1968). These results suggest that, at low harvest levels, there is only a weak correlation between harvest and pelt price. These results may be indicative of regional declines in Muskrat abundance, although future research is needed to substantiate this hypothesis.
10.2307/3858669|Dendronotus frondosus (Ascanius 1774) is a common inhabitant of the intertidal zone of the lower Bay of Fundy. This nudibranch experiences great daily fluctuations in physical conditions that affect all aspects of its life cycle. We examined the effect of temperature (5, 11, and 15 C) on the development time of eggs of an intertidal population of this species. Eggs developed more slowly at 5 C than at 11 C and did not develop past the second polar body stage at 15 C. The effect of this difference in development time may be to compress the settlement period to span less time than the oviposition period.
10.2307/3858597|Since the mid 19th century, only eight records of hooded seals (Cystophora cristata) have been documented from the Bay of Fundy and northern Gulf of Maine. Between 1994 and 1998 thirty-one additional records have been reported, suggesting a recent and dramatic increase in this ice-breeding seal in the region.
40664877|Ondatra zibethicus (Muskrat) is one of the most widely distributed furbearers in eastern North America. Anecdotal evidence suggests that Muskrats are experiencing a regional decline in numbers, although little empirical evidence exists to support this claim. Our objectives were to document temporal trends in Muskrat harvest in eastern North America, and to use the relationship between harvest and pelt price to infer potential trends in regional Muskrat populations. Muskrat harvest has declined by approximately 75% since 1986 in eastern North America, despite a recent resurgence in pelt prices. Recent harvest rates showed little correlation (r = 0.355-0.559) with current or time-lagged pelt prices, despite large correlations (r = 0.785-0.823) between pelt price and harvest from historic data (1948-1968). These results suggest that, at low harvest levels, there is only a weak correlation between harvest and pelt price. These results may be indicative of regional declines in Muskrat abundance, although future research is needed to substantiate this hypothesis.
25177123|Demographic information from geographically isolated conspecific populations is important for understanding how a species is locally adapted, and can thus inform conservation decisions. Clemmys guttata (Spotted Turtle) is declining throughout its range in eastern North America due to habitat loss and fragmentation and collection of specimens for the pet trade. The objectives of our study were to describe the demography of a previously unstudied island population of Spotted Turtles and to make comparisons to conspecific mainland populations. We conducted mark-recapture surveys for turtles on a small (23.2-ha) island in eastern Georgian Bay, ON, Canada. Over seven sampling trips, 40 different turtles were captured 72 times: 23 females, 6 males, 10 juveniles, and 1 hatchling. Males had significantly larger straight-line carapace lengths and contour carapace lengths than females, whereas females had greater carapace heights than males. Adult females on the island were significantly smaller than females on the mainland. Density was estimated to be 1.7 turtles/ha for the entire island, and 21.4 turtles/ha in one wetland where turtles aggregated in spring. The adult sex ratio was significantly skewed in favor of females (1 male: 3.83 females). Our study provides information on the population ecology of Spotted Turtles in isolation, which is important for the creation of management plans for populations being fragmented by human activities.
4499916|This study examines changes in the frequency/abundance of prey selection among five size classes of 183 Ambystoma jeffersonianum (Jefferson Salamanders) within a natural, unmanipulated environment. Significant differences were found in prey selection among size classes in vertebrate and macroinvertebrate (specifically coleopteran and dipteran) prey groups, but not microinvertebrates. Predator-size thresholds were noted as diet shifted from predominantly microinvertebrates to increasingly larger macroinvertebrates to the final dietary selection of other vertebrates. This study augments the catalogue of ingested Ambystoma prey and re-examines the nature of ontogenous dietary selection.
10.2307/3858623|Changes in the distribution of crayfishes in the Schoharie Creek drainage, eastern New York State, are assessed, based on historical records and surveys conducted in 1982-83 and 1996. The native crayfish assemblage in this region probably consisted of only three species: Cambarus bartonii, C. robustus, and Orconectes propinquus. In 1982-83, six crayfishes (C. bartonii, C. robustus, O. immunis, O. obscurus, O. propinquus, and O. rusticus) were collected in the drainage. In 1996, all the crayfishes except O. obscurus were found again, and an additional species (O. virilis) was captured at one site. Between the two survey periods, O. rusticus markedly expanded its range, while the range of O. propinquus decreased and the relative abundance of other species declined. The habitat use of each species is examined.
10.2307/3858600|We investigated the size and structure of a population of diamondback terrapins (Malaclemys terrapin) inhabiting Piermont Marsh on the lower Hudson River, New York. From 6 June through 24 August 1997, 39 trapping periods were completed using trammel nets set in and around the marsh complex. Only eight terrapins were captured -- six males and two females -- indicative of a small or broadly-dispersed population. Terrapins were trapped near a sandbar area outside of the marsh but never seen or trapped in two marsh creeks, suggesting the creeks were not used by terrapins during the time of the study. Instead, terrapins were observed basking and swimming around the rocky piers and breakwaters in the Hudson River. Recent development, soil subsidence, and Phragmites australis growth may have deteriorated traditional terrapin nesting sites in the region.
4130981|We compared breeding activity of Ambystoma maculatum (Spotted Salamander) and Rana sylvatica (Wood Frog) in artificial impoundments to patterns in natural wetlands over a three-year period in the Delaware Water Gap National Recreation Area. Rana sylvatica were 5.6 times more likely to use natural bodies of water for breeding than artificial impoundments, while A. maculatum were 2.7 times more likely to use natural bodies of water. Both species were approximately 9 times more likely to breed in fishless bodies of water than in waters with predatory fish. Ambystoma maculatum were 6 times more likely to breed in wetlands with more stable seasonal hydroperiods, while R. sylvatica were only 2 times more likely to do so. We conclude that the high likelihood of fish presence in impoundments was the primary explanation for why both species were less likely to use impoundments than natural wetlands, while the tendency of A. maculatum to avoid natural wetlands with shorter hydroperiods explained why differences in use between pond types was more pronounced for R. sylvatica.
10.2307/3858598|The tufted titmouse (Baeolophus bicolor) was a vagrant in Maine until the 1970s. The steady increase over the last 25 years in tufted titmice in Maine is shown using Christmas Bird Count data (1976-1996) and Breeding Bird Survey data (1966-1996). Foraging data are presented on a titmouse that wintered near Flagstaff Lake (45 14 N, 70 17 W), the northern-most overwintering record of the species in Maine.
25177139|We investigated the distribution and abundance of Alliaria petiolata, an invasive biennial, with respect to historical land use, and examined environmental conditions to look for correlations with distribution patterns. Sixty currently forested plots in Cuyahoga Valley National Park, OH were chosen based on 1959 land use: agricultural (open) versus forested. Plots were analyzed for Garlic Mustard distribution, abundance, invasion area, and incursion distance. Garlic Mustard distribution did not vary with historical land use, but did vary significantly with distance from rivers and with elevation. Polygon area:perimeter values were also correlated with invasion. These results differ from studies done with Garlic Mustard in New England where historical land use appeared to be a larger factor in distribution. These results suggest the importance of landscape corridors in biological invasions and can be used to identify areas with greater potential for invasive species in this region.
41429232|The inland algal flora of Acadia National Park was studied based on over 200 samples from 119 localities. A total of 160 algal genera were found, representing 12 algal phyla. Among these were 140 new generic records for the Park. The most frequently encountered taxa were desmids and diatoms, and the genera and species in these groups were acidophilous, reflecting the low pH of the ponds, lakes, and streams of the Park. Ponds and streams were the most heavily sampled habitats in the Park, and coincidentally had the highest diversity (103 and 91 genera, respectively). Based on other similar studies, we estimate that the Park likely contains as many as 1000 algal species within its boundaries, indicating that the diversity is exceptionally high for an area of this size.
3858306|We used local and landscape models to predict fish assemblages in the Great Swamp, NY, a region undergoing rapid development. Fish were surveyed across 17 sites. Fish-species richness, diversity, percent intolerant species, and IBI metrics for fish species richness, benthic insectivores, terete minnows, and dominant species were calculated. Local stream features were characterized and surrounding land cover/use was quantified at four different scales (reach, segment, network, and watershed). Regression analysis and multinomial cumulative logit models were used to predict how fish assemblages varied according to habitat characteristics. Within the local variables, pool variability predicted diversity and epifaunal substrate/available cover predicted percent intolerant species and IBI metrics for fsh species richness, benthic insectivores, and terete minnows. The scale of analysis influenced which landscape-level predictors measuring percent wetland, forest cover, or residential land use best explained diversity, percent intolerant species, and IBI metrics for benthic insectivores, terete minnows, and dominant species. Although no single model (local or landscape) best predicted assemblages, the land cover/use at the segment (100-m buffer for 1 km upstream) scale provides sufficient information about fish assemblages to support this scale as optimal for regional land-use planners. Our findings show that forest cover should be maintained to protect fish assemblages in the Great Swamp and development that alters stream-habitat heterogeneity should be curtailed.
4499898|To determine if the quality of winter diet is related to winter-habitat sexual segregation, Lagopus lagopus L. (Willow Ptarmigan) were collected in three wintering areas of Labrador between December and April 1998-2000 (n = 310). Crop contents were used to evaluate diet differences according to sex, age, and area. The most prominent item in ptarmigan crops was Salix spp. (willow; range 45-89%). The crops of adult females contained approximately 60% more willow, the most nutritious food in their diet, and 45% more calories than those of adult males. All birds collected from western Labrador contained more willow twigs and buds and more calories than those collected in central or eastern Labrador. The Gardarsson hypothesis suggests that males winter adjacent to breeding areas to improve competition for territories, and females choose areas with greater abundance and quality of food to enhance reproductive success. We could not reject this hypothesis since the wintering site with the most female-biased sex ratio was where diets had the greatest mass of willow and total calories.
41315955|After the complete destruction of a Sterna antillarum (Least Tern) nesting colony on Lovells Island in Boston Harbor in 2007, we set remote-sensing cameras over artificial tern nests in an effort to identify potential nest predators. In addition to Corvus brachyrhynchos (American Crows) and Rattus norvegicus (Brown Rats), Oryctolagus cuniculus (European Rabbits) were photographed burying eggs and destroying artificial nests. These observations indicate that introduced European Rabbits on islands may have a direct impact on nesting terns.
27744561|Maine and Massachusetts paid bounties on seals during the 19th and 20th centuries. To determine the number of seals killed for bounty, we examined historical records of bounty claims, and used geographic information systems and multiple linear regression to find predictors of places where large numbers of bounties were paid. We found records of 24,831 bounties paid in Maine (18911945) and 15,690 in Massachusetts (18881962). Considering possible fraud, missing data, and seals struck and lost, this suggests that 72,284 to 135,498 seals were killed in the bounty hunt, probably enough to account for regional declines in seal populations. Larger numbers of bounties were paid where there were more seals and a higher human population.
41315956|We describe a successful nest defense strategy of an adult Gavia immer (Common Loon) during an attempted prdation event by a Nevison vison (American Mink) at Umbagog National Wildlife Refuge, NH. It is suspected that mink occasionally depredate loon nests, but defense strategies have not been described previously.
40959752|The freshwater mussel (Unionidae: Bivalvia) communities of the French Creek watershed are nationally recognized for their importance to biodiversity. The goal of this research was to gather more information on the distribution and densities of these species throughout the river. This study utilized two-phase sampling with timed searches to characterize mussel species richness in a large number of sites and to calculate catch-per-unit-effort values. The results of the timed search were used to select a subset of sites for quantitative mussel surveys to estimate density and abundance. Starting in New York, the main stem of French Creek was divided into 5.6-km lengths, and one site was randomly chosen within each of those lengths, favoring habitat (large riffle/runs) for rare species and high species diversity. Snorkelers collected as many unionid individuals as possible, with a target search rate of 0.5 m min. Thirty-two main-stem sites were surveyed with timed searches. Mean species richness was 11.8 (SE = 0.94), and mean CPUE was 59.5 mussels per person-hour (SE = 9.32). Quantitative sampling was performed at ten sites using a double sampling design. Mean density estimates ranged from 0 to 27.98 m. Abundance estimates range from 0 to 69,848 live mussels per site. For the main stem, we calculated regression models to estimate densities and abundances at qualitatively sampled sites based on the CPUE at quantitatively sampled sites. Extrapolation yields approximately 22 million mussels in the 2.04 million m of large riffle-run habitat in the main stem of French Creek.
41495825|Serpentine outcrops in the Middle Urals, Russia, supported 113 species of lichens. These rocks had a more diverse lichen flora and lower specificity (only 9 species) than other rocks types of the region. Pyroxenite's lichen flora was the most similar to that of serpentine. Rocky outcrops along different rivers varied in species richness, the highest being at the southernmost site (River Iset; 81 species) and the lowest at the northernmost site (River Neiva; 57 species).
10.2307/3858521|Protected species issues are an integral part of New England fishery management. Significant interactions of marine mammals and sea turtles with commercial fishing gear have been documented for many years. Statutes and regulations governing commercial fishery/protected species interactions provide for conservation and recovery of protected marine species. Some species of marine mammals, sea turtles, and fish are listed under the Endangered Species Act of 1973, and all marine mammals are managed under the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972. Both these statues have provisions linking them to commercial fisheries and provide varied strategies for reaching conservation goals. Interactions of protected species with commercial fishing gear range from direct entanglement, capture, and disruption of normal behaviors, to adverse modification of critical habitats. For the foreseeable future of New England fisheries, it is likely that wherever protected species and fishing activity co-occur, interactions will continue. Management trends include increased stakeholder involvement, close coordination with fishery management, and emphasis on technological solutions to interaction problems.
41429418|Bats vary their activity with different features of habitat, resource availability, predation risk, and other factors. Agricultural fields may provide an abundance of insect prey, but are also risky habitats due to their exposure. How bats use mixed landscapes is important information for biologists, as increasing development affects the amount of suitable habitat and impacts bat populations in the region. Using acoustic recording, we monitored relative bat activity in open areas and edges of the woodland/farmland interface of agricultural fields in Kent County, DE. We examined bat activity among different sites, in openings versus edges, among crop types, relative to nearby forest fragment size and shape, and under different weather conditions. Bat activity was significantly higher along edges than in the open in the agricultural fields for passes/night, but we found no differences among crop types or sites and no interaction effects. We also found no effect of size or amount of edge of a fragment on bat activity. We found significant negative correlations between passes and temperature and wind speed, and significant positive correlations between passes and relative humidity and barometric pressure. Bats use agricultural areas for foraging, and the woodland interfaces along these fields are important for bat activity. This study provides data that may help engender conservation practices, such as retention of forested edges and maintenance of tree lines, and perhaps crop selection and pest control management, in the region's farming community.
41429233|Saxicolous lichens of a coastal barren were surveyed in Nova Scotia, Canada. Forty-three species were found, including Rhizocarpon suomiense, new North America, and five other species new to the province. The response of saxicolous lichens to the maritime influence was assessed along transects perpendicular to the shoreline, as well as on three faces of the boulders: facing towards the coast, upwards, and away from the coast. Boulder face did not significantly affect lichen species richness; howevercover significantly increased from front to top to back faces. Lichen species richness and cover increased significantly with increasing distance from the shoreline. The ecology of selected species with respect to the maritime gradient is discussed.
10.2307/3858447|We investigated habitat preference of two Silphidae species (Nicrophorus investigator Zetterstedt and N. defodiens Mannerheim) occurring on a seabird island located off the southeastern shore of Newfoundland, Canada. Pitfall traps were placed in the nesting burrows of two seabird species: Atlantic Puffin (Fratercula arctica) located in grassland habitat and Leach's Storm-Petrel (Oceanodroma leucorhoa) occurring in both forest and open meadow habitat. Nicrophorus investigator was primarily found in petrel burrows located in open meadow habitat, whereas N. defodiens occurred exclusively in petrel burrows located in forested habitat. Only a few specimens of N. investigator were collected from puffin burrows. These results show a spatial partitioning of resources between the two beetle species and suggest petrel burrows provide more abundant food sources than puffin burrows for burying beetles breeding on the island.
4130994|Two specimens of Sorex dispar (long-tailed shrew) were taken from the southern base of Stewart Mountain, NS on October 8th and 9th 2005. Stewart Mountain is located south of the Minas Basin, Bay of Fundy, and this population is clearly disjunct from other S. dispar populations, including those in Nova Scotia's Cobequid Mountains. This finding extends the range of S. dispar in Nova Scotia by 60 km southwest. Furthermore, because this new location documents the presence of S. dispar in a different mountain range than previous records, the discovery has significant implications for the conservation status and historical biogeography of this species in Nova Scotia.
10.2307/3858366|Northern (Glaucomys sabrinus) and southern (G. volans) flying squirrels occur in Maine, but there is uncertainty about range overlap in southcentral Maine where the southern flying squirrel reaches its geographic range limit. We surveyed flying squirrels on Mount Desert Island (MDI), located along the central Maine coast, to update the current status and distribution of these species. We captured only northern flying squirrels, and populations ( 2 individuals) were located in two conifer stands and one mixed conifer-hardwood stand. All three stands were located in relatively older forests, outside a large area burned in a 1947 fire. Tree diameters were similar between trap stations with and without captures, understory density was low overall, and there was a trend of higher seedling density at capture locations. Low understory density may allow squirrels more effective gliding movements between trees, which may enhance predator avoidance. Although the southern flying squirrel was reported from MDI numerous times during the 20th century, no voucher specimens exist, and species identification and localities have been poorly documented. Future surveys on MDI should consider collection of voucher specimens to validate subsequent survey efforts and effectively document changes in local biodiversity.
10.2307/3858700|We followed the annual use of a shallow coastal pond by molting Mute Swans to examine their potential impacts on waterfowl habitat. Effects of Mute Swan herbivory on submerged aquatic vegetation (SAV) and macroinvertebrates were measured by comparing control vs. exclosure plots in varying water depths from 1990 to 1994. Mute Swans fed in all water depths, but appeared to prefer feeding in shallow sites (< 0.5 m) where they were capable of reducing SAV biomass by up to 95%. The impact of Mute Swans on macroinvertebrates could not be demonstrated. Only three species of macroinvertebrates (Grammarus spp., Hydrobia spp., Limnephilus spp.) showed reduced densities on some grazed plots.
10.2307/3858613|Hellgrammite nymphs (Nigronia serricornis Say) were collected in streams of southern Maine, 1995-1996, to assess the rate of phoresy by midge larvae. The number, location, and identification of phoretic midge larvae (Diptera: Chironomidae) were recorded for each nymph. Nanocladius (Plecopteracoluthus) n. sp. was the only chironomid species identified from hellgrammite hosts. Phoretic midges occurred in three of four populations and were observed on approximately 55% of all individuals examined (n = 108). However, frequency of phoresy ranged from 0 to 86.4%, depending on the stream. Midge phoretics occurred at a mean rate of over 1.5 per host and the number of phoretics was significantly correlated with host head capsule width. The dorsum of the first abdominal segment was the most frequent attachment site for midges. Observed frequency of phoresy in these streams were similar to published rates for chironomid/hellgrammite associations. This is the first documentation of chironomid phoresy on hellgrammites in Maine.
40664875|We examined 612 wild Neovison vison (Mink) carcasses collected during 1998-2002 from New York State for presence of Dioctophyme renale (Giant Kidney Worm). Twenty-three Mink (15 males and 8 females) contained the parasite in the right kidney. The percentage of infected Mink (3.8%) was considerably lower than was found in Ontario (48%) and Minnesota (27%), but higher than in Manitoba (1%) and North Dakota (< 1%). We found a clustered distribution of Giant Kidney Worms in Mink; all infections were located in the northern and central areas of the state and were restricted to a few physiographic and hydrological regions. Left kidneys were enlarged in parasitized Mink, but other condition measures (body and omentum weights, body weightilength ratio, and hepatic metal concentrations) did not differ between infected and non-infected animals when adjusted for gender, age, and capture location. This assessment indicated that Giant Kidney Worms have a minimal impact on Mink health; however, it should be viewed with caution because animals severely affected by infection may have been less susceptible to trapping. Future research should focus on the impact of infections on long-term health and mortality of Mink and the ecological requirements of Giant Kidney Worms and hosts to understand why infections are clustered in certain areas.
4130987|We report two observations of breeding dispersal by migratory songbirds, Dendroica caerulescens (Black-throated Blue Warbler) and D. fusca (Blackburnian Warbler), from their initial territory locations following timber harvest. Forty-eight birds of each species were captured and marked as part of a long-term study on warbler survival in the Greater Fundy Ecosystem, NB. None of the birds banded in unharvested patches were re-encountered in other patches. Maximum movement distances for the displaced Blackburnian Warbler and Black-throated Blue Warbler were 1.3 km and 2.9 km, respectively. These are the longest breeding-dispersal distances reported for these species. Our paper provides the first direct evidence that birds may move once their breeding site has been altered due to timber harvesting. Potential conservation implications are discussed.
41495836|This first comprehensive assessment of the ant fauna of Nantucket Island, MA revealed that 43% of New England ant species and 70% of New England ant genera occur on an island occupying only 0.07% of New England's land area. Ants collected by four different research groups between 2000 and 2009 included 32,158 individual ants (2911 incidences) from 384 spatially and temporally distinct samples representing 14 different vegetation community types. The majority of the ant species were collected from anthropogenically derived and maintained sandplain grasslands, sandplain heathlands, and Scrub Oak shrublands. These three communities are state-ranked S1 community types; the lower state-ranked communities of beaches and sand dunes, bogs, salt marshes, and forest fragments had distinct ant assemblages with much lower species richness. The large number of samples described here, from a wide range of vegetation community types, expands the known list of Nantucket ant species more than three-fold and provides a baseline for future assessment of the effects of ongoing, long-term ecosystem management on Nantucket.
41684229|We studied the distribution and ecology of male and female Myotis lucifugus (Little Brown Bats) and M. septentrionalis (Northern Long-eared Bats) on Newfoundland, where conditions (e.g., resource availability, abiotic conditions) were expected to be less favorable than in areas where most studies of conspecifics have occurred. We found that both species were patchily distributed and that Northern Long-eared Bats were more widely distributed across the island than previously documented. We located and characterized 36 roost trees from 14 female (6 lactating and 8 non-lactating) Northern Long-eared bats and found that, relative to conspecific populations on mainland North America, female Northern Long-eared Bats on the northern peninsula of Newfoundland roosted in shorter trees with smaller diameters. We also found that roosts used by lactating Northern Long-eared females were in cavities of large-diameter trees that maintained more stable microclimates compared to roosts used by non-lactating females.
10.2307/3858274|Two exotic species of dreissenid mussels (Dreissena polymorpha and D. bugensis) began to colonize bottom substrates in Presque Isle Bay, Lake Erie in 1990. By 1991, all native unionid (Unionidae) shells were infested by dreissenids. In 1990 and 1991, about 500 individual unionids of 15 species were collected: in 1992, 246 individuals of 12 species were collected; in 1993, 64 individuals of 6 species; in 1994, three individuals of three species; and in 1995, no unionids were found. In general, infestation indices of unionids were relatively low in 1990 and 1991, increased in 1992, and decreased in 1993. Mortality of unionids associated with infestation in the bay occurred in a shorter period of time (ca. two to three years) than has been documented in other water bodies. Observations in an area of Presque Isle not included in the present study, indicate that a small remnant population of unionids exists in the presence of heavily-colonized substrates by dreissenid mussels. Since other shallow-water areas of Lake Erie support infestation-free unionids in the presence of dreissenid mussels, it is hoped that some unionids will survive in Presque Isle Bay of Lake Erie.
25177070|We report one instance of conspecific nest reuse by Hylocichla mustelina (Wood Thrush) within the same breeding season, two instances of conspecific nest reuse in subsequent breeding seasons, and two instances of Wood Thrushes reusing nests originally constructed by Pheucticus ludovicianus (Rose-breasted Grosbeaks) during a three-year study in Ontario. Rates of nest reuse were higher than previously reported for Wood Thrush, with conspecific nest reuse accounting for 8-12% of the observed nesting activity, and interspecific nest reuse accounting for 8-9%. Nest reuse occurred following periods of colder minimum temperatures or greater precipitation than in other years. We suggest that instances of nest reuse within and between breeding seasons may occur in response to time or energy constraints on females resulting from unusual weather conditions. Documenting instances of nest reuse behaviour contributes to our understanding of some of the constraints experienced during breeding and may shed light on factors affecting annual reproductive success.
3858337|Emerged Salvelinus fontinalis (brook trout) and landlocked Salmo salar (Atlantic salmon) fry of 2-4 cm total length (TL) are morphologically similar. Size at emergence, parr marks, maxillary bone length, and fin ray numbers are highly similar until fry of these species exceed 4 cm TL. Emerged brook trout and landlocked Atlantic salmon fry were examined for characteristics that would permit rapid and reliable field or laboratory identification. Relative pectoral fin length ratio (PECT/TL) provides the most robust measure separating the species in this study. Landlocked Atlantic salmon fry have a significantly larger PECT/TL than brook trout fry. Emergent fry with a PECT/TL ratio greater than 0.16 were classified as landlocked Atlantic salmon while fry with a PECT/TL ratio of less than or equal to 0.16 were classified as brook trout.
10.2307/3858551|Experimental field studies at two sites in Long Island Sound have demonstrated that the nonindigenous Asian shore crab, Hemigrapsus sanguineus deHaan 1853, is a highly mobile grapsid crab that shows limited fidelity to a particular shelter or feeding site. Recovery rates of tagged crabs differed significantly at the two sites, but no differences in site fidelity were measurable between males and females at either site. Between-site differences in percent crabs recovered may be due to differences in food and shelter availability at the two sites. There is some suggestion that familiarity with a shelter site may influence site fidelity by leading to reduced mobility. A conservative estimate (based on recovered crabs only) of the mean distance traveled in 24 hours (n = 38) was 7.43  1.54 m; among those crabs recovered a distance > 5 m from the release point (n = 15) the mean distance traveled was 16.87  2.23 m. The rapid, widespread dispersal characteristic of the Asian crab invasion along the east coast of the United States may be due in part to the high adult mobility and low site fidelity exhibited by H. sanguineus.
40959751|The warm water outflow at a power station in Northport, NY aggregates Morone saxatilis (Striped Bass) in winter, which creates unnatural angling opportunities. Substantially more Striped Bass were available to anglers in the winter of 1995-1996 than in the winter of 1996-1997. Although Striped Bass were observed within and around the heated effluent of the plume, tracking using ultrasonic transmitters indicated they were not "trapped" in the area by the colder water surrounding the discharge. However, there also was little evidence of a natural forage base. Tag returns from marked Striped Bass over subsequent years suggest that they displayed similar movement patterns to Striped Bass found in Long Island waters during other seasons. Differences in availability of Striped Bass among years may reflect seasonal changes in temperature, cohort abundance, and other factors.
41315965|Through an examination of historical records maintained by a local bird club, consisting of naturalist diaries, daily check-lists, and informal bird surveys, we found that 44 springtime migrant bird species show evidence of an increasingly early first arrival date (FAD) during a 123-year record (1885 to 2008) in Dutchess County, NY. Ninety-one percent of the species showed a significant advance in FAD over this period, with the mean advance being 11.6 days/century. Using truncations of the full data-set corresponding to available data for changes in observer effort and population trends, we found that adding these ancillary independent variables to a multiple linear regression contributed little to explain the change in FAD in recent years. The advance in FAD is potentially an index of global climate change in this region.
41315934|The Saco River estuary is a narrow estuary in southern Maine, for which the fauna has not been described in nearly 30 years. Beach seining, otter trawling, and beam trawling were conducted between April and October of 2007 and 2008 to assess seasonal variation in fish assemblage structure. Twenty-four species were observed over the two sampling seasons, and nearly all species were at lengths indicative of juvenile age. Clupea harengus (Atlantic Herring), Pseudopleuronectes americanus (Winter Flounder), Anguilla rostrata (American Eel), Microgadus tomcod (Atlantic Tomcod), Pomatomus saltatrix (Bluefish), and Osmerus mordax (Rainbow Smelt) are either commercially or recreationally valuable, while Acipenser oxyrynchus oxyrynchus (Atlantic Sturgeon), Alosa aestivalis (Blueback Herring), and Rainbow Smelt are federally listed species of concern. Substantial historical assemblage changes were observed, including both the loss of commercially important species and the addition of species of concern. Regular monitoring of estuarine habitats is necessary to identify changes in assemblages and to better understand potential drivers of ecosystem change.
40959920|The main-stem Allegheny River is nationally recognized for its freshwater mussel (Unionidae: Bivalvia) diversity; however, habitat disturbance and degradation may have triggered the decline and loss of mussel communities in the lower river, where lock and dam structures restrict the free flow of water and sand and gravel removal threaten limited habitat. We examined mussel diversity and abundance across 75 transects throughout navigational pools and recorded 21 live native mussel species, including federally endangered Pleurobema clava (Clubshell) and Epioblasma torulosa rangiana (Northern Riffleshell) and several species with state endangered or threatened status. Riverine species richness and counts were significantly higher in the most-upstream portions of the upper pools, indicating that areas with consistent flows and suitable substrate just downstream of the dams may provide refugia for riverine freshwater mussel species. Sand, gravel, cobble, boulder, and organic debris had significant positive effects on riverine and facultative counts, while clay, bedrock, and woody debris had significant negative effects. Silt and woody debris had significant negative effects on riverine species richness, and sand and gravel had significant positive effects. These data will help identify sensitive areas for future protection and provide baseline data for monitoring future trends. The protection of relatively shallow areas with suitable substrates not yet impacted by dredging operations will be important to sustain remaining freshwater mussel populations in these pools.
41684259|Although crows cast pellets, there is little quantitative information on pellets from Corvus brachyrhynchos (American Crow), and none from C. ossifragus (Fish Crow). During a study of crow roost dispersal in Lancaster, PA, we collected samples of pellets from several locations. By mass, pellets consisted mostly of grit and other fine inorganic material, various seeds (principally Toxicodendron radicans [Poison Ivy] and Celtis occidentalis [Common Hackberry]), and vegetation remnants. Six pellets contained small-mammal bones. Because the Lancaster winter crow population included many Fish Crows, the source of the pellets was not certain. To clarify this, we compared the size of the Lancaster crow pellets to those produced by captive Fish Crows, and we provide the first quantitative description of pellets for either species. Our size comparisons suggest that >90% of the pellets in our sample from Lancaster were produced by American Crows.
60225646|Cobscook Bay, a boreal, macrotidal estuary in the northeastern Gulf of Maine, is noted for its species richness. The Bay area is biogeographically complex due to present temperature regimes as well as historical, climatological, and physiographic changes since the last glaciation. Early investigators recognized the resulting zoological richness, and a significant portion of the collection and taxonomic description of North American marine fauna was centered in the northern Gulf of Maine. A compilation of the results of 19th- and 20th-century research leads to the conclusion that the Cobscook region contains the highest level of marine invertebrate biodiversity in eastern North America north of the tropics. In addition, Cobscook Bay is characterized by noteworthy biological attributes such as the intertidal occurrence of many normally subtidal species and the manifestation of giantism in several populations. These phenomena are summarized briefly as a prelude to a major ecosystem modeling effort.
41495824|Serpentine soils are extreme habitats known to be involved in processes of local adaptation and speciation of plants. Here I use a greenhouse reciprocaltransplant experiment to compile baseline data for describing patterns of serpentine local adaptation in Quercus ilex subsp. ballota (Holm Oak). I also tested the role of mycorrhizal fungi on the establishment and growth of seedlings on serpentine and non-serpentine soil. Non-serpentine seedlings grew more than serpentine seedlings in all treatments. Plants grew more on non-serpentine soil and mycorrhizal fungi positively influenced seedling growth. I did not find evidence of better seedling performance in their home environment, suggesting the absence of local adaptation. However, I document significant growth differences between serpentine and nonserpentine seedlings, which suggest physiological differences between seedlings from these two soil origins.
40664883|Animals facilitate macrophyte seed dispersal in various ways despite specializations of macrophytes for water dispersal. Previous diet analyses of freshwater aquatic turtles revealed that several North American turtle species consume a variety and abundance of seeds among other plant material and animal prey. We quantified the dietary habits of Chrysemys picta picta (Eastern Painted Turtle) in a Massachusetts lake to examine if these animals included hydrophyte seeds in their diet and evaluate their capacity as passive seed-dispersal agents. Fifty-four turtles were trapped and housed to collect feces. Examination of feces revealed a diverse diet with comparatively high frequencies of animal, plant, and algal matter. Eight hundred fifty-seven seeds of at least nine plant species were egested (among 87% of turtles), with all but five (99%) seeds visibly intact. Seeds of Nuphar (473) and Decodon (305) were most abundant in the feces. Life-history characteristics of both C. p. picta and Nuphar suggest an effective endozoochorous seed dispersal association.
27744541|Preserved specimens of the crayfish Cambarus bartonii, Orconectes limosus, and Orconectes virilis from 27 locations in New Brunswick, and O. limosus from Freshwater Lake, Cape Breton Highlands, National Park, Cape Breton Island, NS, Canada, were examined for branchiobdellidans. Three species of branchiobdellidansBdellodrilus illuminatus, Cambarincola fallax, and Xironogiton instabiliswere identified on C. bartonii. Only branchiobdellidan cocoons were recorded on O. limosus, and only X. instabilis was recovered from O. virilis in New Brunswick. The introduction of O. limosus and O. virilis into New Brunswick does not appear to have simultaneously introduced non-native branchiobdellidans. No branchiobdellidans were found on introduced O. limosus from Freshwater Lake, NS. This work provides the first records of branchiobdellidans occurring in the Maritime Provinces of Canada, and establishes the eastern limit for these ectosymbionts in North America. In addition, one specimen of C. bartonii was found to have a total of 39 B. illuminatus in the branchial chambers, the largest infestation of this species yet recorded.
3858297|Cattle production is a common land use, and the adverse effects of cattle grazing on stream habitat and macroinvertebrates has been well documented. The purpose of our study was to provide a list of taxa that can be expected to occur in small streams impacted by cattle in the southern Blue Ridge Mountains and to demonstrate how taxon-specific natural history information can be used to gain insight about benthic habitat condition. We identified 97 benthic macroinvertebrate taxa from five cattle-impacted streams that differed in cattle grazing intensity. Our findings suggest that some macroinvertebrate taxa can sustain low levels of cattle grazing and that sedimentation is a major stressor to the macroinvertebrate fauna.
10.2307/3858429|Paracyclops canadensis (Willey) (Copepoda: Cyclopoida) is not common in collections and is considered rare. We sampled purple pitcher plants, Sarracenia purpurea L. (Sarraceniaceae) from ten geographically separated sites to determine how common P. canadensis is. Ninety specimens of Paracyclops canadensis were recovered from 660 leaves of the purple pitcher plant, between March 11, 1996 and November 11, 1997. Specimens included immatures and male and female adults. Most copepods were alive when collected. This report documents that P. canadensis is more widespread and prevalent than previously thought. Its frequency in S. purpurea leaves suggests that it has a species-specific association with this pitcher plant. The material in this study represents the most widespread collection of P. canadensis in North America.
41315968|We summarize recently reported sightings of Megaptera novaeangliae (Humpback Whales) and Balaenoptera acuturostrata (Minke Whales) in the Hudson Bay region, in the eastern Canadian Arctic. Balaena mysticetus (Bowhead Whale) is the only baleen whale historically known from Hudson Bay, and during the commercial whaling era (1860-1915), no other large whale was reported to occur there. We note recent (ca. last 10 years) Humpback observations reported by local Inuit hunters in Hudson Bay and northern Foxe Basin. One Humpback was also observed by cetacean biologists in Ungava Bay during an aerial survey for Delphinapterus leucas (Beluga Whales). Minke Whales have previously been reported in southern Hudson Bay and James Bay, and recent discussions with Inuit hunters have indicated possible sightings in Foxe Basin and western Hudson Bay. They are commonly observed by Inuit in eastern Hudson Strait, where there have also been recent detections by biologists. Observations of these species in Hudson Bay and Foxe Basin may be related to reduced ice cover and increased open water, changes in prey species distributions, population recovery and growth following commercial whaling, or some combination of factors. More efficient reporting of observations is needed, and improved community-level monitoring would assist with documentation of temperate-region species in high-latitude areas.
4499937|Procambarus (Ortmannicus) acutus (White River crayfish) was added to West Virginia's decapod crustacean fauna on 26 February, 2004, and this finding was the first record of the genus Procambarus in West Virginia. Six P. (O.) acutus (4 form-I males, 2 females) were collected in traps from a large vernal pool system 1.2 km east of Point Pleasant, Mason County. Several additional specimens were collected from this site during the spring of 2004, with an additional 3 populations discovered in the spring of 2005. White River Crayfish were collected in ephemeral pools, marshes, and roadside ditches. White River Crayfish were found in ephemeral systems only, and appear to have shifted aspects of their typical ecology to suit these systems in West Virginia. White River Crayfish distribution in West Virginia appears to be limited to the pre-glacial Marietta River Valley, and results suggest that it is a native species in West Virginia.
27744576|We investigated nutrient limitation of periphyton and phytoplankton in Cape Cod, MA coastal plain freshwater ponds. We assayed periphyton growth response to nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) in situ, assessed phytoplankton growth in growth chambers, and measured ratios of dissolved N and P in surface waters to determine if nutrient ratios were accurate predictors of nutrient limitation. In ponds receiving low groundwater nutrient inputs, periphyton responded weakly to addition of N or P alone, but responded strongly to addition of N+P. In these ponds, increases in both N and P were also required to increase phytoplankton growth. In ponds receiving high groundwater nutrient inputs, increased N+P were also required to increase phytoplankton growth. We found no indication that high nutrient inputs shifted pond phytoplankton to P limitation. There was no consistent correlation between dissolved N:P and whether periphyton was limited by either N or P or co-limited by N and P. Strong and widespread co-limitation by N and P suggested that greater attention should be given to both N and P when assessing the threat of nutrient enrichment of fresh waters. Effects of increased periphyton and phytoplankton growth on the unique flora of coastal plain ponds are not known, but bear increased attention given large increases of N in groundwater in many locations, the sensitivity of pond algae to nutrient supply, and the status of coastal plain ponds as high conservation priorities.
3858460|This note presents a documented incident of Canada lynx (Lynx canadensis) predation on white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus). An adult male lynx killed a yearling male deer in poor condition (71.5% femur marrow fat) on 20 February 2003 in northern Maine. The chase from the point of attack to the deer carcass was 112 m. Snow depth was 47-78 cm and sinking depth of the deer was 12-38 cm, which is near the critical sinking depth and impedes deer mobility. This observation suggests that Canada lynx may opportunistically prey on deer.
41315945|There is great ecological interest in carrying out a new inventory of southern Qubec simuliids, including an exhaustive sampling in two lake outlet streams of the Mauricie region, because data from Qubec were last reported only prior to 1980. Frequent sampling is needed to determine how species distributions change in response to climatic and environmental changes. Twenty-two of the 65 Qubec species were collected in the present study. One new species for Qubec was collected (Prosimulium magnum complex), and new distribution areas were found for some species. Exhaustive sampling clearly showed time-and space-related distribution variations of the univoltine and polyvoltine species. Seasonal appearance of species was synchronized at the two sites studied, but generation number was smaller at Lac du Barrage than at Lac Souris. The species-colonizing process seems to be environmentally determined stream-width and substrate-type influenced, as Simulium annulus, S. jenningsi. S. pictipes, and S. innoxium, were found in high-current-velocity falls. Artificial site colonization by S. aureum in a peri-urban environment had not been observed among simuliids prior to this study, in contrast to many mosquito species.
40664847|Several species of ducks defecate when flushed from their nests, but it is unclear why. Possibly, this behavior reflects manipulation by parasites to facilitate transmission. We analyzed feces of 32 incubating Somateria mollissima (Common Eider) for evidence of parasite transmission stages. We found a total of only 11 parasite transmission stages (identified as digenean and nematode eggs) in feces of 3 different hens, suggesting that defecation around the nest has a low probability of leading to parasite transmission. Other hypotheses for defecation behavior in this and other duck species (repulsion of egg predators, weight loss to increase hen maneuverability to escape predators) appear insufficient to explain its persistence.
10.2307/3858478|As part of a larger study, we investigated the intensity and duration of association between 2 adult male coyotes (Canis latrans) in an agrarian landscape in west-central Indiana. Home-range size and overlap and the intensity of association varied with time. Home-range sizes averaged 7.9  1.1 (SE) and 11.8  0.9 km<sup>2</sup>, and spatial overlap was substantial. Activity patterns and habitat preferences were similar for the coyotes whether together or apart, and there was no evidence of temporal or spatial avoidance. The 2 males were together most frequently during the pup-rearing and dispersal seasons, suggesting provisioning of pups and vigilance at diurnal resting sites as possible mechanisms for the dyad formation.
60225647|Cobscook and Passamaquoddy Bays and their connecting passages lie at the entrance to the Bay of Fundy, on the eastern boundary between the United States and Canada where the mean tidal range is about 6 m. Vigorous tidal currents maintain cold temperatures and efficient exchange with offshore waters year-round. Over the last several decades, a net-pen salmon aquaculture industry has developed in both bays. Recent outbreaks of fish diseases have led to heightened concerns about tidal coupling between net-pen sites and potential pathways for disease transmission. This paper summarizes a Cobscook Bay circulation study by Brooks et al. (1999) and presents some new results to improve understanding of the tidal circulation and potential exchange pathways linking the bays. A dipole pair of back-eddies forms in the central part of Cobscook Bay on each flood and plays an important role in the dispersion and retention of particles. Direct and indirect observations support the existence of the eddy pair and some associated flow details. Model flushing times are a day or two in the Outer Bay where most aquaculture lease sites are located but a week or longer in the inner arms of the Bay. The inner part of South Bay appears to be a repository for particulate matter. Model experiments including both bays and their connecting passages suggest that most water entering Cobscook Bay comes from Head Harbor Passage adjacent to Campobello Island, illustrating the importance of well-coordinated international plans for ecosystem management.
10.2307/3858668|The effects of growth light environment on the seasonal acclimation of photosynthetic capacity as well as rates of photosynthesis in the field were investigated in the angiosperm Mitchella repens L. (partridgeberry) and the gymnosperm Tsuga canadensis (L.) Carr. (eastern hemlock). Irrespective of growth light environment, photosynthetic capacity decreased in winter in partridgeberry but exhibited no seasonal change in eastern hemlock. These acclimatory patterns contrast with previously published results that report strong effects of growth light intensity on seasonal acclimation in another understory angiosperm, Mahonia repens (Lindley) Don., and strong winter-time decreases in photosynthetic capacity in a number of gymnosperms. With the exception of eastern hemlock in the exposed site, actual rates of photosynthesis were similar on summer days and on mild days in winter, whereas rates of photosynthesis measured on extremely cold days were much lower. Thus, even within the winter season, daily fluctuations in temperature profoundly affect photosynthesis. The carotenoid pigments that make up the xanthophyll cycle acclimated to winter in a manner that is consistent with their role in the protective process of energy dissipation.
25177147|We document the spring 2007 die-off of 216 Tachycineta bicolor (Tree Swallow) in western New York due to a period of unseasonably warm temperatures followed immediately by a period of unseasonably cold temperatures. Dead swallows were collected from artificial nesting boxes, where they had roosted communally. A subsequent decline in nesting effort was detected during the following nesting season. Implications for future nest-box management are discussed.
10.2307/3858357|The range of brook silverside (Labidesthes sicculus) extends from Minnesota eastward to southern Quebec, and south through New York, Texas, and Florida. The species is found in the St. Lawrence and Richelieu Rivers in Quebec, and the Allegheny and St. Lawrence River drainages, Mohawk and Hudson Rivers in New York. We found brook silverside for the first time in four of the five basins of Lake Champlain, over a range of 150 km, in 1998. Several individuals were collected at each site, indicating that the species is established in the lake. The route of introduction of brook silverside is unclear; they could have entered the lake from the Mohawk River via the Champlain Canal at the south end or from the Richelieu River via the Chambly Canal at the north end. This finding extends the range of brook silverside by approximately 88 km, into Lake Champlain in western Vermont.
10.2307/3858707|The American burying beetle (Nicrophorus americanus), listed as endangered in 1989, is one of only about 30 species of insects protected under the Endangered Species Act of 1973. In the eastern United States, the site of the only remnant population of the species is Block Island, Rhode Island. The first reintroduction of the American burying beetle occurred on Penikese Island, Massachusetts from 1990-1993 using captive-raised and wild beetles translocated from Block Island. Annual monitoring at Penikese Island from 1991-1996 confirms that small numbers of beetles are reproducing on naturally occurring carrion and that the population is persisting three years after the last release.
40664843|This study presents prey records and nesting information for 13 species of spider wasps: Hemipepsis ustulata, Priocnessus nebulosus, and Priocnemis cornica (Tribe Pepsini); Auplopus architectus, A. caerulescens (Tribe Auplopodini); and Tachypompilus ferrugineus, T. unicolor, Anoplius (Pompilinus) marginatus complex, A. (P) splendens, A. (Anoplius) nigerrimus, A. (A.) virginiensis, Arachnospila arctus, and A. scelestus (Tribe Pompilini). Cumulative prey records for Priocnessus nebulosus, Tachypompilus ferrugineus, T. unicolor, and Arachnospila scelestus indicate limited prey selection. Cursorial hunting spiders were more susceptible to predation by the spider wasps than web-spinning spiders. Wasp nesting sites varied among natural and man-made microhabitats.
25177089|Peripherally distributed populations of animals often exhibit different life-history parameters compared to those from more central locations. We report on the ecology of Eurycea cirrigera (Southern Two-lined Salamander) from its western range limit in eastern Illinois. We searched two streams and an intervening ridge from April 2002 until December 2003 to monitor clutch size and seasonal abundance of life stages. Oviposition began in April, and larvae were detected by late May. Mean clutch size was smaller than estimates from other parts of the species' range and did not covary with snout-vent length of the attending female. Nest-attendance rates we detected tended to be lower than previous estimates. As in other parts of their range, clutches were often found under rocks with at least one other clutch. Longer rocks were 1.30 times more likely to have multiple nests deposited under them.
4499900| Contrary to previous literature concluding that body size of Canis latrans (coyotes) does not increase in North America with decreasing longitude, this study presents data from different regions and concludes that northeastern coyotes are the largest extant version of coyote. Male coyotes from northeastern North America (16.4  1.5 [SD] kg, range = 14.2-20.4) were heavier than females from the northeast (14.7  1.6 kg, range = 11.9-17.9) and were also heavier than male (10.6  1.0 kg, range = 8.8-12.0) and female coyotes (12.1  1.1 kg, range = 10.5-14.1) from outside of the northeast. Female coyotes from northeastern North America were heavier than all male and female western coyotes. Longitude was significantly correlated in both male (r = -0.786, P < 0.0001) and female (r = -0.769, P < 0.0001) body mass, whereas there was less of a correlation for latitude and body mass for males (r = 0.355, P = 0.043) and females (r = 0.364, P = 0.044). Sixty-two percent (P < 0.0001) and 59% (P < 0.0001) of variation in body mass of males and females, respectively, could be explained by longitude, while 13% (P = 0.043 for males; P = 0.044 for females) could be accounted for by latitude. 
3858465|A survey of larval midge remains from surficial sediments in 37 New England lakes was undertaken in order to relate midge distributions to environmental factors. The lakes are located along a transect from northern New Hampshire to southern Connecticut. The midges proved to be a very diverse group of insects in these freshwater habitats. A total of 65 chironomid taxa were recovered. Canonical correspondence analyses indicated that the environmental variables which best explain the distribution of chironomid taxa were mean July air temperature, percent sediment organic matter, pH, and lake depth. This knowledge about the relationship between midge distribution and mean July air temperature can be applied to midge assemblages preserved in older lacustrine sequences to improve our understanding of past environmental conditions in the region.
25177110|Faunal remains from the Cole Gravel Pit archaeological site in Livingston County, NY, have been identified as Glyptemys (Clemmys) muhlenbergii (Bog Turtle). This is believed to be only the second prehistoric Holocene record of this species. Two Pleistocene records of Bog Turtle have also been previously reported. Based on archaeological remains, the human occupation of the Cole Gravel Pit site dates to approximately 3900 years B.P. and is associated with the Late Archaic Period. Cole Gravel Pit is in the general area of western New York state considered to be within the historic distribution of Bog Turtle, but modern live specimens of this species have not been discovered within Livingston County.
3858296|The exotic shrub Lonicera tatarica (Tartarian honeysuckle) has aggressively invaded woodlands and forests in central and eastern North America; however, its impacts on native plant species are not well understood. We used a greenhouse seedling experiment to examine the effects of L. tatarica on Quercus alba (white oak), the presettlement dominant tree of many of these forests. Growth-related parameters of Q. alba seedlings (height and basal diameter increases, biomass) did not differ between treatments when grown in monoculture or with L. tatarica competitors. In addition, when paired with native Cornus (dogwood) species, Q. alba displayed similar growth as when paired with L. tatarica. Quercus alba also did not respond differently to native and L. tatarica competitors across a range of densities, although greater competitor diversity resulted in somewhat lower height growth than other treatments. Due to the similarity in Q. alba growth across native and exotic shrub combinations, we argue that seedling-to-seedling competition with Q. alba is not a significant impact of L. tatarica invasion.
43288159|Effects of white-nose syndrome (WNS) have mainly been assessed in bats at hibernacula, but this method may not be appropriate for species with poorly understood overwintering habits. We assessed effects of WNS on summer captures of Myotis leibii (Eastern Small-footed Bat), M. lucifugus (Little Brown Bat), M. septentrionalis (Northern Long-eared Bat), and Eptesicus fuscus (Big Brown Bat) in New Hampshire from 2005-2011. Declines in rates and probability of capture varied among species but were greatest in the Myotis. Trends generally agreed with previous studies, except that declines in captures of Eastern Small-footed Bats were disproportionately higher than expected from winter estimates. Monitoring of Eastern Small-footed Bats during the non-hibernation period likely will help to clarify the effects of WNS on this uncommon species.
40959755|Solitary nest-provisioning wasps and bees in North America include species that naturally construct nests within existing cavities, such as hollow plant stems or tunnels left by wood-boring insects. The materials used to construct brood cells within nest cavities and the types of food provisions provided to offspring vary considerably among species. Over five summers (2001-2002, 2005-2007), we used trap nests to survey the cavity-nesting wasp and bee assemblage within the Montezuma Wetlands Complex in central New York State. Over 350 trap nests were occupied by 6 species of apoid wasps (Sphecidae, Crabronidae; 34% of nests), 7 vespid wasps (Vespidae: Eumeninae; 39%), 2 spider wasps (Pompilidae; 3%), and 12 bees (Megachilidae, Colletidae; 26%), as well as brood parasites and parasitoids of the nest provisioners. The most common nest-provisioning wasp was Trypoxylon lactitarse, followed by Ancistrocerus antilope, Isodontia mexicana, Symmorphus canadensis, Symmorphus cristatus, and Euodynerus foraminatus. The only two bee species with comparable incidences were Hylaeus annulatus and Heriades carinatus. Natural enemies emerging from nests included at least 17 species from 10 families, the most common of which were brood-parasitic cuckoo wasps (7 species of Chrysididae; 39 nests) and flies (Sarcophagidae; 11 nests). We also report brood sex ratios of the seven most abundant species, finding them to be either male-biased (A. antilope, T. lactitarse), female-biased (E. foraminatus), or not significantly different from unity. We compare our survey results to others done in north-central and eastern North America.
40959756|"Pimple" dunes are small, rounded coastal dunes that form along major dune ridges of the barrier islands along the Eastern Shore of Virginia. Although most pimple dunes are small structures ranging between 10 and 20 m in diameter, they have distinct plant assemblages that replicate the upland ecotones of their barrier islands. We examined the relationship between microenvironment, edaphic factors, and plant assemblage structure on pimple dunes. Water availability was an obvious major ecological driver, but we also tested other environmental factors that may correlate with plant assemblage structure. We found distinct assemblage types that segregated themselves by habitat type: marsh, shrub thicket, and dry summit. Freshwater availability was important in delineating vegetation differences, both among transects and among species. However, soil nutrients, such as ammonium, potassium, magnesium, and boron, were also spatially correlated with plant assemblage structure. We hypothesize that interactions between water and other environmental factors (e.g., the accumulation of nutrients in the marsh after they are leached from the dune summits) are important determinants of plant species distribution and abundance, and suggest that more attention be given to micronutrients in future phytosociological studies of barrier islands.
27744562|We determined how environmental variability affected distributions of seasonally recruiting fishes (i.e., transient species) in coastal lagoons of Maryland from MayOctober during 1996, 1997, and 1999. A total of 241 monthly sampling events were conducted in the coastal lagoons at 40 sampling stations. Fluctuations in salinity resulting from variation in stream discharge were negatively correlated with intra-annual stability of fish assemblages. Transient, or non-resident species (e.g., recruiting species), were more frequent in habitats where salinity was less variable. When stream discharge lessened during dry years, transient species were more common throughout the coastal lagoons. Thus, environmental variability influenced distributions of young-of-year fishes in coastal estuaries.
10.2307/3858564|The species composition and richness of the summer riparian vegetation of four small streams in the nonglaciated Allegheny Plateau of northwestern Pennsylvania (Forest, Warren and McKean Counties) were examined. The arboreal stratum (stems  2.5 cm dbh) of the four streams consisted of twenty species with Fagus grandifolia, Betula alleghaniensis, and Tsuga canadensis dominant (mean number of arboreal species across sites = 9.8  0.9 SE). Ninety-nine species were recorded from the ground-layer stratum (all vascular plants  2 m tall) of the four streams with forbs as the dominant growth form. Four species, Dryopteris intermedia, Maianthemum canadense, Pilea pumila, and Viola blanda, were common to the ground-layer vegetation associated with all streams. Species of upland affinity were more prevalent in the riparian vegetation across streams than werewetland species. Several of the plant species recorded are indicators of rich and/or subacid to circumneutral soils, an edaphic medium of limited occurrence in the region. Mean ground-layer species richness and cover differed significantly among streams and ranged from 3.7 to 10.5 species/m<sup>2</sup> (mean number of species/m<sup>2</sup> across sites = 7.9  1.5 SE) and 8.3 to 43.0% (mean percent cover across sites = 30.4  7.7 SE), respectively. Similarity in ground-layer species composition among streams ranged from 33.3 to 54.1% (mean similarity across sites = 38.9  3.7% SE). Although compositionally distinct, the small stream riparian flora documented by this study compares favorably in richness to other riparian habitats in northwestern Pennsylvania.
25177073|During September 2004 and June 2005, the Virginia Institute of Marine Science (VIMS) Juvenile Fish and Blue Crab Trawl Survey collected specimens of three warmwater fish species uncommon to Chesapeake Bay. Captures of Trachinocephalus myops (Snakefish), Citharichthys macrops (Spotted Whiff), and Mullus auratus (Red Goatfish) are the first substantiated records for these species from Chesapeake Bay. These captures also represent extensions in the documented geographic ranges of Snakefish and Spotted Whiff. Occurrences of multiple species heretofore rarely encountered in Chesapeake Bay warrant further attention in view of concerns regarding climate change and its effect on local marine faunas.
10.2307/3858568|Leucistic Plethodon cinereus, in which the individual lacks pigment except for normally-colored eyes, are apparently rare. This paper describes a third leucistic individual of this widespread species from Maryland.
3858327| Declines of Trillium wildflower populations have been attributed to white-tailed deer browsing without exploring the role of soil fertility. To explore relationships among Trillium species, soil fertility, and deer, samples were collected for analysis from thirty-seven randomly selected forested sites in Pennsylvania and West Virginia (in spring 2003) containing one of the following Trillium species: T. erectum, T. grandiflorum, or T. undulatum. Data were collected from 1-m radius plots centered on the first Trillium shoot observed at each site. Soil chemistry, foliar chemistry, and shoot height data were collected from the plots. Deer pellet groups were counted along four, 2  100-m transects in the four cardinal directions from the plot center. Pearson correlation and principal component analysis were used to examine relationships between soil chemistry and deer pellet groups, and shoot density and heights of Trillium. Trillium erectum and T. grandiflorum were found on sites rich in calcium and their foliage refected this. Trillium undulatum was found on sites with much lower calcium supplies. Strong correlations between numbers of pellet groups and Trillium heights were only obtained for T. undulatum. Results suggested that deer presence may not be the only factor adversely affecting Trillium populations and that soil calcium status also may play a role. This information should assist current discussions about the use of Trillium as indicators of deer numbers. 
3858543|Cheilanthes lanosa (Michx.) D. C. Eaton is a xerophytic fern that grows on dry, exposed rocky outcrops. Because several stages in the C. lanosa life cycle are vulnerable to desiccation, the physiological basis for the fern's survival in arid habitats is unclear. We hypothesized that C. lanosa survives its arid environment in part with the help of mycorrhizal associations, which enhance water and nutrient uptake in host plants. Although fungal symbioses rarely occur in members of the Polypodiaceae, most plants do engage in mycorrhizal associations. In this study, light microscopy was used to document the presence of vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizae in C. lanosa sporophytes.
43287132|While conducting an on-going project investigating the effects of prescribed fire on reptile communities, 31 Terrapene carolina carolina (Eastern Box Turtle) were captured in burned and unburned study sites; some with extensive injuries that were likely caused by a recent prescribed burn. In order to determine if the disturbance had any negative effects on the turtles, we recorded morphometrics, mass, sex, and injuries for each one captured. Twenty percent of box turtles in the burned area exhibited injuries caused by the fire. Turtles in burned sites were similar in length but weighed significantly less (df = 1, F= 5.255, P = 0.0329) and had a poorer body-condition index than turtles in unburned sites. Additionally, one injured box turtle was encountered 32 times in a burned site. On average, this individual moved 22.5 m/day within a 3.77 ha home range. Over the course of 1 year, the turtle grew 1.3 mm and gained 27 g. The injuries to the carapace of this individual never fully healed during that year, and the scutes did not grow back; however, regeneration of the carapace may require a longer period of time. These scant data suggest that Eastern Box Turtles may not respond favorably to prescribed fire, and indicate that additional studies are needed to increase knowledge of the effects of prescribed fire on this species.
10.2307/3858520|In New England waters, many fish stocks are in precipitous decline while others are already at historically low levels. Bycatch and discard of non-target species is a major contributor to fishing mortality and is a key factor in the observed decline of stocks. In recent years, there have been many initiatives, both globally and locally, to improve selectivity of fishing nets, or more correctly, to reduce the capture and discard of non-target fish. However, it has also become clear that the natural behavior patterns of many species prevent effective selection. For a trawl gear to be truly selective, every fish that enters the net should be tested to insure that those that are small enough to pass through the meshes escape and those that are above the minimum landing size are retained. In general there are two main techniques to aid fish escapement. The first technique is based on making use of species-specific behavior patterns, whereas the second technique involves a process of mechanical sorting on the basis of size. This paper outlines the most widely used bycatch reduction techniques and, where applicable, provides examples within each category where such techniques have been shown to reduce bycatch and discard. The role of bycatch reduction in conservation of fish stocks is discussed.
10.2307/3858275|Due to a lack of information on residues of chlorinated compounds in fish from Connecticut lakes and ponds, we conducted a preliminary assessment of total chlordane, total DDT, and total PCBs in fish tissue. Predators (largemouth bass and smallmouth bass) and bottom feeders (common carp, brown bullhead, yellow bullhead, and white sucker) were collected from 16 Connecticut lakes in 1998. Fish tissue samples consisted of a composite of one skin-on fillet from up to three individual fish representing one species. Fish were analyzed for chlorinated compounds by a gas chromatography/electron capture detector. Fish from seven lakes had detectable levels of chlordane. One lake had fish with chlordane residue levels exceeding the Food and Drug Administration action level of 300 micrograms per kilogram (g/kg) wet weight. At all 16 sites, p,p'-DDE was detected in fish tissue. At seven sites, PCBs, primarily Aroclor-1254, were detected in fish tissue; the highest concentration reported was 2344 g/kg wet weight.
41315971|Recently, Patterson and Patterson (2010) documented a single Glaucomys sabrinus (Northern Flying Squirrel) having two litters in a single year in southern Ontario, Canada. We confirm this record and provide evidence for two new observations; 1) Northern Flying Squirrels will attempt a second litter after raising a successful first litter; and 2) Northern Flying Squirrels can be lactating and pregnant at the same time. We also present data on the frequency of polyestry in a single year. In 2008, 3 of 10 radio-collared flying squirrels in southern New Brunswick, Canada attempted two litters. The first litter was born in early June, and the second litter in mid-August. Our data suggest that polyestry in Northern Flying Squirrels may be relatively common in some years.
4130724|In 1869, the hundred-year anniversary of Alexander von Humboldt's birth, there were a number of memorial events within German-speaking Europe. In affirming Humboldt's importance, late 19th century liberal natural scientists also promoted their own intellectual pursuits, arguing for the central importance of natural science within both contemporary culture and human history. Humboldt's memorializers used his image to argue for an intimate connection between scientific, moral, and political progress. Within this broad consensus, Humboldt's meaning could be defined in a number of ways, and memorial speakers' own scientific and political commitments shaped their picture of the famous scientist. At the same time that scientists were asserting Humboldt's overwhelming importance for the history of Western culture, however, changes within natural science itself were making it harder to articulate arguments for his universal intellectual significance.
4130723|Since the late 19th century, the image of Alexander von Humboldt has been fractured into that of the patient and assiduous fact-gatherer, devoted to measurement and quantification, and that of the sensitive soul, awake to the unity and beauty of the landscape. Concern with emotional and aesthetic responses to the natural world was, however, central to Humboldt's precise and quantitative approach to natural history. The unity of his project may be better understood by exploring his youthful immersion in Enlightenment debates over the nature of the human mind and the possibility of rational knowledge of nature -- debates which took on a special urgency during the epoch of the French Revolution. Specifically, the reforms of natural history which Humboldt proposed in the 1790s and practiced during his expedition to the Americas (1799-1804) drew on the concepts and techniques of "analysis" developed by the French Encyclopedists and refracted through German politics and philosophy. Humboldt's approach to natural history thus exemplifies the essential continuity between Enlightenment doctrines of sensation and sensibility and Romantic assertions of the unity of nature and the unique role of the naturalist in revealing that unity.
41315954|We report the extirpation of Notropis bifrenatus (Bridle Shiner) from Maryland. This once widespread species has not been observed in this state since 1984 despite recent and extensive collection efforts in areas of historical occurrence. Based on these results, the status of the Bridle Shiner in Maryland was changed from endangered to endangered/extirpated in 2010.
4131008| Population declines of migratory songbirds have been attributed to either breeding-ground factors based on forest fragmentation leading to increased rates of nest predation and nest parasitism or wintering-ground factors based on tropical habitat loss and degradation. We analyzed patterns of habitat use by Nearctic-Neotropical migrants, temperate migrants, and permanent residents in isolated deciduous-forest patches (0.25-3400 ha) in Pennsylvania during 1994-95 to determine distribution patterns and to identify the primary cause of these declines. Nearctic-Neotropical migrants were found primarily in larger forest patches ( 40 ha) compared to small patches ( 2 ha). In contrast, with few exceptions, temperate migrants and permanent residents were found equally in small and larger forest patches. Based on predictions by Rappole and McDonald (1994) to determine the cause of population declines, our results indicate that wintering-ground factors most likely are responsible. However, we suggest that such results should be viewed with caution. Specifically, we recommend that patterns of habitat use during migration should be studied more thoroughly to elucidate the potential impacts of stopover-habitat modification on population declines of migratory birds. 
43287124|This paper presents the results of a long-term study to detect the presence of Puma concolor (Cougar) in eastern Canada. We installed 38 scratching posts to attract wild Cougars and collect hair samples in several national and provincial parks in Qubec, New Brunswick, and Nova Scotia. A set of semi-nested primers was used to discriminate Cougar samples from other mammalian species based on variation in thelS rRNA gene of the mitochondrial DNA. Our analyses performed on 476 hair samples revealed 19 positive identifications of Cougars in Qubec and New Brunswick. Sequencing further showed that some specimens were from South America, whereas others had a North American origin. We discuss the implications of these results for the conservation of Cougars in eastern Canada.
3858307|We utilized microcosms that mimicked the rocky intertidal community to examine the predatory impacts of two introduced crab species, Carcinus maenas and Hemigrapsus sanguineus, on naturally occurring assemblages of organisms on rocks in the laboratory and in the field. The two crab species had similar consumption patterns causing significant declines in Semibalanus balanoides (barnacles), juvenile Mytilus edulis (mussels), Spirorbis sp. (polychaetes), and ephemeral algae. In both two-day and fourteen-day field experiments, the decline in S. balanoides in the H. sanguineus treatments was significantly greater than in the C. maenas treatments suggesting that H. sanguineus may have a higher per capita impact on barnacles than C. maenas. As H. sanguineus increases in abundance in northern New England, it may have greater impacts on prey species than C. maenas did when it became established.
10.2307/3858677|Bats that inhabit dead or dying trees may interact with a wide variety of other animals that utilize this same habitat, including potential predators. Herein, we report two interactions between Indiana myotis (Myotis sodalis) and woodpeckers (Red-bellied Woodpeckers, Melanerpes carolinus; and Northern Flickers, Colaptes auratus). We also report attempts by common raccoons (Procyon lotor) to prey upon both Indiana myotis and evening bats (Nycticeius humeralis). These represent the first reported interactions between either woodpeckers or raccoons and tree-roosting bats of either species. If predators such as raccoons are superabundant in small forest fragments, then increased predation from these animals could be an important source of mortality for bats roosting within these habitats.
27744557|Necropsies of Gavia immer (Common Loon) recovered lead and non-lead foreign objects from gastrointestinal tracts. Carcasses collected between 1987 and 2000 reveal that a great deal of loon mortality on lakes in New England is attributable to ingestion of lead objects. In this study, 522 carcasses were examined to inspect the types, sizes, and masses of 222 objects responsible for lead toxicosis. Most ingested lead objects were less than 2.5 cm long and weighed less than 25 g. Information on objects ingested by loons may help in development of non-toxic alternatives.
41495823|The geoecology of a serpentinite-dominated site in the Czech Republic was investigated by rock, soil, water, and plant analyses. The 22-ha Pluhv Bor watershed is almost entirely forested by a nearly 110-year old plantation of Picea abies (Norway Spruce) mixed with native Pinus sylvestris (Scots Pine) in the highest elevations. It is mainly underlain by serpentinite, with occassional tremolite and actinolite schists and amphibolite outcrops. Tremolite schists and especially serpentinites are characterized by extremely high concentrations of Mg, Ni, and Cr and by negligible concentrations of K, creating an unusual environment for plants. The spruce growth rate is very slow, apparently as a result of K deficiency, Mg oversupply, and Ni toxicity. Foliar Ca is in the upper part of the optimum range because schists and amphibolites are important sources of Ca to the soil exchangeable pool and vegetation. Mineral weathering and atmospheric deposition generate near-neutral magnesiumbicarbonate-sulfate streamwater with a high concentration of Ni.
43287136|In North America, Castor canadensis (Beaver) impoundments of low-order streams greatly modify ecological processes, influence stream biota, and impact fish movement. We evaluated the short-term effects of removing a beaver dam from an Appalachian headwater stream on a Salvelinus fontinalis (Brook Trout) population. Prior to dam removal, we found only one marked trout that had navigated the dam moving upstream and no marked trout from above the dam moving downstream. Immediately following dam removal, trout abundance above and below the dam increased 67.1% and 46.0%, respectively. During later samples, however, declines in both trout abundance and relative weight suggest the initial large increases in our study sections after dam removal may have led to increased competition among trout, causing large numbers to move several hundred meters further upstream, beyond our study site, in order to find acceptable habitat. These results demonstrate that the presence and subsequent removal of a beaver pond on a Brook Trout stream can be considered both beneficial and harmful; thus, site-specific evaluation is necessary to determine best whether to retain or remove ponds.
4499907|Histrionicus histrionicus (Harlequin Ducks) that winter along the east coast of North America are listed as a population of special concern in Canada, and they use several coastal wintering sites in southern New England that are subject to varying degrees of urbanization. We studied patterns of habitat use by Harlequin Ducks at 12 known wintering sites in southern New England. An average of
25177099|Benthic algal assemblages were surveyed in five Pennsylvania streams in order to examine trends in biomass and taxonomic groups along an acidification gradient. Acidification severity of each stream was estimated from total dissolved aluminum
25177138|We discovered that spiders use seed heads of Sarracenia purpurea (Northern Pitcher Plant) for moulting, nesting, and rearing of young. These associations represent only a few of the diverse interactions between spiders and pitcher plants. During July-August 2001 at Acadia National Park, seed heads (n = 301) of S. purpurea from four bog-heaths yielded spiders (n = 685) of four families (Theridiidae, Dictynidae, Clubionidae, Salticidae), 10 genera, and at least 11 species. Two additional spider families (Gnaphosidae, Thomisidae) were represented by cast exuviae. Jumping spiders (Salticidae) were the chief occupants, comprising 80.0% of species and 99.1% of individuals. The salticid Tutelina similis was the most common inhabitant, accounting for 63.8% of the overall spider fauna in these microhabitats. Spider foraging-guild presence favored hunters (99.7%) over web spinners; juveniles outnumbered adults almost 15 to 1, and females outnumbered males 43 to 1. Frequencies of spider webbing and retreats in seed heads were greater than expected (G-test,  = 0.05); however, spider occupancy was less than expected. Seed heads with multiple-spider occupants were more frequent than those with single-spider occupants; conspecific associations were more frequent than heterospecific associations. No evidence was found that spiders preferred either closed or open seed heads. Other associated arthropods included parasitic mites, spider-egg parasitoids, and insects. The identified taxa represent the first records of spiders inhabiting seed heads of S. purpurea in Maine.
41495839|Woody plaint expansion is a global phenomenon and has been demonstrated to have impacts on the global carbon (C) cycle as a substantial C sink. Land-cover change in western New York has followed a pattern common to the northeastern US as presettlement forests were extensively cleared for agriculture use. In the past several decades, a substantial portion of this agricultural land has been left to natural succession. This study investigates soil C dynamics across a chronosequence of habitats representing this landcover change including old fields, shrublands, and early successional forests. Despite substantial shifts in plant community composition and structure, neither soil respiration nor soil organic matter changed significantly with habitat type. While consequences of this land-cover change in western New York remain inconclusive, the scale of this change could result in substantial shifts in regional ecosystem C dynamics.
10.2307/3858356|Four species of non-native coccinellids in North America have expanded their ranges to include Cape Breton Island, Nova Scotia in the past 20 years. Lady beetles were sampled in 1998 at five sites in industrial Cape Breton to determine the status of these four non-native species. Coccinella septempunctata L. has been established for about 15 years and was the most common coccinellid in Cape Breton during the past 10 years. It continues to be one of the most common and widespread species. The other three are very recent, mid-1990s, introductions to this area. Harmonia axyridis (Pallas) has apparently not become established. Two others, Propylea quatuordecimpunctata (L.) and Hippodamia (Adonia) variegata (Goeze), are now common and widespread. The latter is particularly abundant, especially in the late summer. Native species were rarely encountered; the most frequent, Coccinella trifasciata, made up less than 4% of all individuals. During the past ten years, Adalia bipunctata L. has been the most abundant native species. However, only two individuals were observed during 40 hours of sampling in 1998, possibly indicating a major decline.
25177107|We conducted a formal survey of small-mammal ectoparasite diversity in Iowa. We examined 166 small mammals and documented 54 species of parasitic arthropods present on 12 species of mammals. Ectoparasite species richness was greatest for Blarina brevicauda (northern short-tailed shrew), Microtus ochrogaster (prairie vole), Peromyscus maniculatus (deer mouse), and Peromyscus leucopus (white-footed mouse). Immature (larvae and nymphs) Dermacentor variabilis (American dog tick) were collected from P. leucopus, M. ochrogaster, Reithrodontomys megalotis (western harvest mouse), and Zapus hudsonius (meadow jumping mouse). The fleas Epitedia wenmanni and Orchopeas leucopus, potential vectors of sylvatic plague bacilli, were found on Mus musculus (house mouse), white-footed mouse, and deer mouse. We document 21 new ectoparasite host records for North America and 115 new host locality records for ectoparasites in Iowa.
40959754|Northern temperate forests play an important role in the global carbon (C) cycle. Individual stands can differ in content and storage, based on characteristics such as vegetation type, site history, and soil properties. These site differences may cause stands to vary in their response to extreme weather events such as droughts. We examined ecosystem pools, soil respiration, and litterfall in four hardwood stands with widely varying soil drainage in Rhode Island. Total ecosystem increased as soils became more poorly drained, ranging from 181 Mg C ha in the excessively drained Entisol to 547 Mg C ha in the very poorly drained Histosol. The proportion of ecosystem contained in the soil was much higher in the poorly drained soils, and ranged from 57% in the excessively drained Entisol to 91% in the poorly drained Histosol. While total ecosystem stocks varied by a factor of three, rates of litterfall and soil respiration were similar among sites. Soil carbon content was highest in the very poorly drained site, and respiration was lowest from this site. During the summer drought of 1999, all soils except the Histosol had lower respiration rates than predicted from temperature alone. Rain events that ended the drought produced a pulse of soil respiration in all mineral soils, stimulating soil flux more than expected from temperature alone. The effect of drought and rewetting on soil respiration varied by site, suggesting that the response to climate variability will depend upon soil drainage to some extent. Soil respiration rates were most variable in dry conditions, and current and antecedent soil moisture conditions played an important role during those times. In general, soil respiration was much more variable over time than across sites, even among these sites with very different total soil content, indicating that climatemainly temperatureis the main determinant of soil CO release even across soils with widely varying drainage.
27744580|Many authors have recently used changes in arrival dates of migratory breeding birds as a measure of environmental change due to global warming. In this paper, I present a comparative analysis of the intra-annual variability in first arrival dates for 107 species of migratory breeding birds in Maine. Data come from volunteer observers in the southern two-thirds of the state from 1994 through 2005. Using the Julian date for each first arrival, standard deviations were tabulated for each species in each year. The results indicate that some species, specifically leaf-gleaning insectivores and aerial insectivores, have relatively low variance of first arrival dates while other species show more protracted migrations and hence greater variability around the mean arrival date. Post hoc considerations of the patterns of variability suggest that diet may be an important determinant of variance in arrival date. The data indicate that researchers should concentrate on species with lower variances of arrival date to increase the statistical power for testing changes in arrival dates as global warming proceeds.
10.2307/3858427|We compared the mean spring arrival dates of 80 species of Maine migratory breeding birds between the interval 1899-1911 and the interval 1994-1997. Arrival dates for the earlier interval were extracted from records in the Journal of the Maine Ornithological Society. Dates for the latter interval were collected by volunteers across the state of Maine. Our prediction of a trend toward earlier arrival as a function of global warming was rejected. Of the 29 species that showed significant changes in arrival date, 20 (69.0%) arrived earlier in 1899-1911 than in 1994-1997. Spring arrival dates do not at present provide any signal of the effects of global warming in the state of Maine.
4499913|We surveyed little-known ray-finned fish assemblages from Maryland's coastal bays in order to establish species-habitat relationships for common species. From 1996-1999, 25 sites were sampled monthly with otter trawls in the coastal bays of Maryland. Anchoa mitchilli (bay anchovy) constituted nearly 50% of the catch for each year, and species composition was largely similar across years, with some differences likely related to variation in recruitment. For example, Clupea harengus (Atlantic herring) was particularly abundant during 1996 and 1999 following their spawning season. We used canonical correspondence analysis to determine how assemblages were related to temperature, dissolved oxygen (DO), salinity, and land-use variables during summer (June-September) and throughout the rest of the year. A gradient correlated with temperature and DO significantly structured assemblages throughout most of the year; during summer, the proportion of wetland habitat was important. We demonstrate that environmental gradients important for structuring fish assemblages differ between summer and non-summer months and there is a general shift in habitat use during summer from the lower estuary to other areas of the coastal bays. Our data also provide support for earlier observations that temperature was the major factor influencing changes in fish assemblage structure in the coastal bays. Our results point to better characterization of fish habitats in order to effectively manage coastal ecosystems of Maryland.
40664882|The vernal pool fairy shrimp Eubranchipus vernalis (Eastern Fairy Shrimp) is an obligate freshwater invertebrate that is an important member of northeastern United States vernal pool ecosystems. The extent of gene flow among populations of vernal pool fairy shrimp in the Northeast is currently unknown, yet this information is important for understanding the ecology and evolution of this species.In order to infer the level of gene flow among E. vernalis populations, we used mtDNA sequence data to estimate the level of genetic divergence and the pattern of geographic variation among 22 vernal pool populations sampled across Massachusetts during spring 2003. We found significant differences among vernal pool populations in the frequency of unique mtDNA sequences, but no coherent geographic pattern in the distribution of these sequences, and there was no significant correlation between levels of genetic divergence and geographic distance. We argue that these results reflect priority effects rather than limited dispersal among these populations.
43287128|Collections of bird specimens are an important resource for teaching bird identification, but acquiring suitable specimens can be problematic. Older collections tend to be preserved with a variety of potentially harmful chemicals; additionally, traditional methods for preparing specimens typically require extensive training. Freeze-drying is a method that involves removing water from specimens via sublimation, and may be an acceptable alternative to conventional taxidermy techniques for teaching collections. We freeze-dried 63 birds and 12 bird parts (i.e., talons and wings) of 44 species salvaged from throughout Pennsylvania since January 2008 using a Taxi-Dry Freeze-Dryer (Freeze-dry Specialties, Inc.). To determine the extent of water lost during the freeze-drying process, we measured the masses of birds and parts before and after preservation. Whole birds that were successfully freeze-dried lost 59.4%  0.9% (mean  SE) of their initial mass, and unsuccessfully dried birds lost 46.9%  3.5% of their initial mass. Generally, birds with an initial mass > 160 g did not lose enough water in the freeze-drying process to be effectively preserved. We conclude that if proper storage and maintenance conditions are met, freeze-drying can be an effective method for preserving small bird specimens for teaching collections.
3858544|The incursion of residential and commercial development into terrestrial habitats is resulting in measurable changes to the composition and pattern of habitats and to the fauna and flora associated with them. To better understand the effects of urbanization on Rhode Island's landscape, we documented land-cover changes between 1972 and 1999 using Landsat remote sensing data. Analyses indicate land-cover changes involved major transitions of forested land to urban land-classes. For example, 14,986 hectares of forested land was converted into urban land between 1972 and 1985 resulting in a 21.0% increase in urban land-cover. Likewise, 6,551 hectares of forested land with more hectares of deciduous forest (4,806 ha) was converted into urban land between 1985 and 1999 resulting in an 18.0% increase in urban land-cover. Quantitative analyses also revealed that as forested land declined in spatial extent it declined in connectivity as the number of forest patches increased in the state, including areas defined as open space or rare and endangered species' habitat.
25177065|The British Headquarters Map, circa 1782, provides a remarkable window onto the natural topography, hydrology, and land cover of Manhattan Island, NY, before extensive urbanization. Manhattan formerly hosted a rugged topography watered by over 108 km of streams and at least 21 ponds, flowing in and out of wetlands that covered nearly 10% of the island in the late 18th century. These features are largely representative of the landscape prior to European settlement. We used ecological features interpreted from the British Headquarters Map, and additional historical, ecological, and archeological information, to hypothesize about the ecosystem composition of the pre-European island. We suggest that 54 different ecological communities may have once been found on the island or in nearby waters, including chestnut-tulip tree forests, Hempstead Plains grasslands, freshwater and tidal marshes, hardwood swamps, peatlands, rocky headwater streams, coastal-plain ponds, eelgrass meadows, and culturally derived ecosystems, such as Native American village sites and fields. This former ecosystem mosaic, consisting of over 99% natural areas, stands in sharp contrast to the 21st-century state of the island in which only 3% of its area is dedicated to ecological management.
3858685|During the summer of 2003, we studied a series of potential indicators of biological integrity on various sites in an intensively managed forest landscape in northwestern New Brunswick, Canada, to provide empirical testing of ecological requirements described by earlier researchers. Pitfall traps were used and each individual was identified to the species. Of the 54 ground beetle species identified, seven species were either new records for the province (n = 3: Harpalus solitaris, Patrobus foveocollis, and Trechus crassiscapus) or rarely reported (n = 4: Agonum superioris, Pseudamara arenaria, Scaphinotus bilobus, and Sphaeroderus nitidicollis brevoorti).
41684258|Given the paucity of literature on plant-fungal interactions on serpentine soils and limited investigation of serpentine geoecology in eastern North America, we examined mycorrhizal colonization of Hypericum perforatum from adjacent serpentine and granite outcrops on the Deer Isles, ME to determine whether plants were differentially colonized based on substrate. We coincided our sampling with three phenologic stages of H. perforatum (preflowering, flowering, postflowering) to determine possible differences in colonization based on plant phenology. The levels of mycorrhizal colonization in H. perforatum were not significantly different between serpentine and granite sites, while levels of colonization in postflowering plants were significantly higher than in those at preflowering and flowering stages.
10.2307/3858445|The nesting behavior of >150 females of Episyron quinquenotatus was studied comparatively at eight localities in the northeastern United States from 1967 to 1993. The two major study sites, Presque Isle State Park, Erie County, PA, and Auburn, Cayuga County, NY, were investigated mainly during 1967 -1969. Wasps nesting in sand at Presque Isle dug longer and deeper burrows more rapidly than females nesting in loamy fine sand at Auburn. Females at Auburn were smaller than those at Presque Isle and transported prey spiders mainly on the ground. The prey spiders at Presque Isle were often carried in flight by the larger wasps. Mechanics of nest closure sometimes differed between wasps at the two localities. Females captured six genera and nine species of orb-weaving spiders (Araneidae) at seven localities. Araneus patagiatus adult females, A. diadematus immatures, and Eustala anastera adult females were predominant prey at Presque Isle while Araniella displicata adult females and Neoscona arabesca adult females were prevalent prey at Auburn. Larger wasps laid larger eggs. There was a positive correlation between size of prey spider and size of wasp produced in the next generation. Females at Presque Isle sometimes completed two or, rarely, three nests per day.
10.2307/3858646|The Great Cypress Swamp Conservation Area (GCSCA) comprises the largest contiguous forest on the Delmarva Peninsula (>5000 ha). An avian inventory using a fifty-meter fixed-radius point count method was undertaken during the nesting seasons of 1996 through 1998 to determine species composition, relative abundance, and frequency of breeding forest birds. Seventy-three species were found to comprise the breeding-season avifauna of this natural area including 14 warblers. Seven of the ten most abundant species were neotropical migrants. The Worm-eating Warbler and the Brown-headed Cowbird were the most abundant and most frequently encountered species, respectively. Several birds of local conservation concern were found, including two regionally rare species: Swainson's Warbler and Black-throated Green Warbler. Two warblers previously known to breed here were not found during this survey: American Redstart and Northern Parula. Management of the GCSCA for forest birds should focus first on protection of extant populations and secondly on restoration. Comprehensive systematic inventories of large areas of contiguous forest should be considered a high priority for biologists concerned with the regional conservation of species of concern.
10.2307/3858528|Somes Sound has been described as the only example of a fjord on the east coast of the United States. On a small scale, and from a morphological point of view, the Sound has key features normally associated with fjords, including pronounced subaerial topographic relief, submarine sills, and the U-shaped cross-section typical of glacially-carved troughs. However, based on its salinity distribution, which is related to the mixing and circulation processes used to characterize estuarine types from an oceanographic point of view, Somes Sound is a vertically well-mixed estuary that does not exhibit the strong stratification typical of fjords. While its geomorphology is unique, the oceanographic processes operating in the embayment are essentially the same as those in other shallow Maine estuaries with low fresh water input. In these estuaries, as well as in Somes Sound, tidal mixing is dominant over freshwater inflow in determining the circulation and the vertical stratification of the water column.
3858538|This short review focuses on lichens which have cyanobacteria as their main photosynthetic partner or in localized areas termed cephalodia. Research is cited to show that cyanolichens are very sensitive to gaseous air pollution, to acid rain, and to habitat disturbance. These lichens are worth conserving for their own sake but are also valuable for assessing the status of forests in areas like northeastern North America, where forests cover large tracts of land. The richness of the cyanolichen flora reflects biological diversity in the forests. Cyanolichens fix atmospheric nitrogen, are generally nutrient-rich, and have a diverse associated invertebrate fauna. These invertebrates provide food that sustain both resident and migrating birds. Management strategies that might be used to maintain and ensure the survival of the rich cyanolichen flora of the northeastern U.S. and Atlantic Provinces of Canada are presented and discussed.
10.2307/3858663|A survey of invertebrates inhabiting salt marsh pools in southern Maine revealed the presence of larval Goeldichironomus devineyae, a midge fly species of the family Chironomidae. The larvae were collected from sediments in eight pools with salinities of 26-39% and reared to adults for species verification. This represents a considerable range extension for the species that was previously recorded from the southeastern coast of the United States.
25177103|American Woodcock singing-ground surveys (SGS) have been conducted annually on Fort Drum Military Installation since 1992 (excluding 1993 and 2000). These SGS indicate Fort Drum has a stable to slightly increasing breeding woodcock population, with average numbers of males heard per route ranging between 13.00 and 22.58 birds. These numbers are significantly higher, and in stark contrast, to many parts of the American Woodcock's range, where numbers have been in decline for over 30 years. We suggest that current forest management practices and military training create favorable successional regimes that satisfy all necessary life-history requirements and help sustain these densities of breeding woodcock at Fort Drum.
10.2307/3858714|During 1993-94 and 1994-95 the amount of watershield (Brasenia schreberi) in selected Maryland wetlands was determined to see if any relationship existed between the amount of watershield on a wetland and the number of ring-necked ducks (Aythya collaris) observed on that wetland. Data were collected for two years from eight different wetlands on the Patuxent Wildlife Research Center in Laurel, Maryland. Results indicate that there was no significant correlation between the amount of watershield in a wetland and the number of ring-necked ducks observed on that wetland.
3858289| Unambiguous species identification is fundamental, especially when attempting to study species-specific interactions or management and conservation issues. Current weasel identification methods are based on external and cranial morphology, yet North American weasels show significant geographic variation in size and considerable overlap occurs in measurements of Mustela erminea and M. frenata. As a result, these species can easily be confused. Our objectives were to: (1) develop a simple method based on restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analyses to classify Mustela spp. in eastern Qubec, Canada; (2) validate existing external and cranial morphological criteria in the literature for weasel identification; and (3) calculate discriminant functions based on genetically identified specimens to aid in Mustela identification where genetic laboratory facilities are not readily available. Skeletal and external measurements were taken on adult male Mustela specimens (n=28) that had been collected in the winter of 2002-2003. Results from genetic analyses confirmed a northern range expansion of long-tailed weasels into Qubec and revealed that current morphological criteria alone are not adequate for classifying Mustela specimens. As many as 18% of Mustela erminea and M. frenata individuals were mis-identified due to morphological measurements, either falling outside known ranges for each species or inside measurement ranges common to both species. 
3858457|In some years, inland "wrecks" of Dovekies (Alle alle) have occurred in northeastern North America in November to February, with birds apparently driven inland by storms from wintering areas off eastern Canada and the northeastern United States. In the late 19th century, small numbers also were recorded inland in September in Maine (1869), Massachusetts (1872), Connecticut (1874), and Pennsylvania (1878). No inland occurrences in September were recorded for another 90 years until individuals were sighted in Qubec (1962 and 1963) and on Lake Ontario in upstate New York (1983). September birds arrived inland earlier in the year than when most individuals depart colonies in the High Arctic and move to wintering areas in the northwest Atlantic Ocean. However, the geographic pattern of September inland occurrences was similar to major late-fall and winter inland wrecks, suggesting a common source area. Dovekies reported inland in September likely originated from among the small numbers of subadults that summered off Newfoundland or subadults or failed breeders that moved southward from breeding areas before molting, and were not long-distance vagrants.
60225649|The nutrient distribution in the highly productive, macrotidal Cobscook Bay, located in the northern Gulf of Maine, was investigated through a series of spring-neap cruises during the spring, summer, and fall of 1995. Sampling design included three 5-station transects at major constrictions in the Bay and 21 peripheral stations in the principal coves and sub-embayments. Results indicate that Cobscook Bay is nutrient rich throughout the year and is potentially eutrophic. Plots of salinity against nitrate show that this is a totally natural circumstance brought about by an abundant supply of nutrients, most importantly nitrate, from the adjacent Gulf of Maine. Predictive nutrient algorithms fitted with a hydrodynamic model emphasize the high nitrate water entering the Bay from the seaward end and diminishing in concentration with distance from the mouth. The plant biomass produced is heavily grazed, resulting in high ammonium concentrations from excretion and regeneration. The high ammonium concentrations and its incomplete re-utilization by the phytoplankton strongly suggest that plant biomass is controlled by grazing. In other words, despite a high natural nutrient loading, natural grazing processes serve to limit the accumulation of plant material and potential eutrophication. Comparing all potential nitrogen fluxes indicates that man-made contributions are not significant to the overall nutrient budget of Cobscook Bay, although they may have local impacts.
10.2307/3858698|This paper investigated the potential for the exotic shrub Rhamnus frangula L. (glossy buckthorn) to alter native plant community composition in southeastern New Hampshire. Stratified random sampling was performed with 2 m  2 m plots randomly located in 5 m intervals along three 50 m transects in four even-aged Pinus-mixed hardwood forests, three of which were managed stands. The associations between R. frangula and the measured species abundances and environmental variables were investigated using linear, least-squares multiple regression and Non-metric Multidimensional Scaling Ordination. Plot basal area of R. frangula was inversely related to woody seedling density (p < 0.001), herb cover (p < 0.05), and species richness (p < 0.01). The relative contribution of R. frangula to explaining variance in seedling density was greater than canopy openness, soil pH, soil clay, or soil sand. Abundance of R. frangula was a statistically significant predictor (p < 0.05) of individual herb species abundances for all study sites. This evidence supports the hypothesis that R. frangula causes a decline in seedling density and alters native ground level plant species abundances. Furthermore, the patterns agree with the suppression of ground level plant species abundances by R. frangula found in removal experiments.
43287099|We investigated nesting success of grassland birds on dry prairie and oak barrens patches embedded within a forested matrix on Fort McCoy Military Installation. We monitored 280 nests of 9 grassland-bird species from mid-May to late July 2000-2002. Pooecetes gramineus (Vesper Sparrow) and Ammodramus savannarum (Grasshopper Sparrow) were the most abundant nesting species. Vesper Sparrow nest densities were highest on smaller grassland patches, while Grasshopper Sparrow nest densities were highest on the largest patches. Probability of fledging at least one young was 0.20 for Vesper Sparrow. For Grasshopper Sparrow, daily nest survival was higher for nests placed away from trees; probability of fledging at least one young was 0.28 for nests away from trees and 0.05 for nests near trees. Maintaining remnant native habitats is important, and management of woody features may help improve habitat quality for some grassland birds in Wisconsin.
4130974|Trends in abundance for winter flounder (Pseudopleuronectes americanus), windowpane (Scophthalmus aquosus), hogchoker (Trinectes maculatus), tautog (Tautoga onitis), and scup (Stenotomus chrysops) in upper and lower Mount Hope Bay were compared to trends in Narragansett Bay to assess the effect of natural and anthropogenic stressors, including Brayton Point Power Station, on Mount Hope Bay fishes from 1972 to 2001. Sources of data included the Rhode Island Division of Fish and Wildlife trawl survey for Narragansett Bay and lower Mount Hope Bay, the University of Rhode Island Graduate School of Oceanography trawl survey for Narragansett Bay, and the Marine Research, Inc. trawl and Brayton Point Station impingement surveys for upper Mount Hope Bay. Analysis of covariance and Tukey-Kramer multiple comparison tests were used to evaluate differences in the slopes of transformed abundance indices from 1972-2001 and for two subsets of years, 1972 to 1985 and 1986 to 2001, periods of lower and higher power plant cooling water withdrawals, respectively. Trends in abundance of these species in both upper and lower Mount Hope Bay are not substantively different from those in Narragansett Bay during any of the three time periods evaluated. This is evident through either a highlevel visual inspection of the slopes measured for each species, time period, and area or a more detailed inspection of the analysis of covariance results and Tukey-Kramer confidence intervals associated with each slope estimate. Natural and anthropogenic stressors unique to Mount Hope Bay, including Brayton Point Station, have not caused Mount Hope Bay fish stocks to change at rates different from those observed for the same stocks in Narragansett Bay. This supports the conclusion that large-scale factors such as overfishing, climate change, and increased predator abundance are more likely to be the cause of the observed declines in important species such as winter flounder in Mount Hope Bay and Narragansett Bay.
10.2307/3858658|The Asian shore crab, Hemigrapsus sanguineus, was observed occupying fiddler crab burrows (Uca pugnax) at low tide in a Spartina salt marsh at Sherwood Island, Westport, Connecticut. Forty-seven percent (48/103) of the fiddler crab burrows censused were occupied by crabs. Of those, 81% held fiddler crabs while the remainder held Asian crabs. Fiddler crabs and Asian crabs were never found in the same burrow. Unlike the Asian crab, fiddler crabs preferred areas of the "marsh edge" where rocks and small stones were not present. Hemigrapsus sanguineus, which can be found under the shelter of rocks, shells, and other debris on tidal flats along the fringes of the marsh, probably searches the marsh edge as the tide recedes for unused burrows to occupy. Field caging experiments used to investigate possible competitive interactions between these two species indicated that the presence of the Asian crab had no effect on burrow utilization by the fiddler crab. It is unlikely that patterns of habitat use by the east coast salt marsh fiddler crab, Uca pugnax, will be significantly affected by the recent introduction of the Asian crab, H. sanguineus, to this area.
25177083|Gaylussacia brachycera (box huckleberry) is a slow-growing, dwarf evergreen member of the family Ericaceae that is native to eight states in the eastern United States. It is a rare plant with conservation status in several states of critically imperiled (S1). Botanists have been intrigued by this enigmatic native plant since it was discovered in 1796 in Virginia. One of the mysteries of this species is whether plants in a colony arose from different genotypes or are clonal. The species reproduces primarily by means of underground runners and appears to be self-sterile, so sexual reproduction within isolated colonies could be limited. Using molecular markers, we tested samples taken from three of the best-known colonies in Pennsylvania and one in Tennessee. Based on 104 polymorphic markers, we found that one of the Pennsylvania colonies contained two genotypes among 11 samples tested; one Pennsylvania colony contained three genotypes among five samples tested; and the other two colonies exhibited no variation among the 8-10 samples tested. This study represents the first time that molecular markers have been used in a systematic assay to determine the existence of variation among individuals within a colony of box huckleberry.
3858546|The Boston Society of Natural History, founded in 1830, replaced the Linnaean Society, which had been active from 1813 to 1823. The founding members of both groups were mostly physicians who were interested in natural history. They were concerned with the collection and display of natural objects, the study of specimens, and public education. The large number of important publications that the Boston Society would eventually produce between 1834 and 1946 commenced with a noteworthy volume of the Boston Journal of Natural History. After 30 years of effort, capped by the generosity of Dr. William J. Walker, a beautiful museum building was finally completed in 1863. Soon thereafter, professionals who had mostly been trained by Louis Agassiz at Harvard filled the museum positions. From 1870 until his death in 1902, Alpheus Hyatt, an Agassiz student and an exponent of the neo-Lamarckian School, was director of the Boston Society. He was succeeded by Charles W. Johnson. A paucity of funds during Johnson's tenure caused the trustees to limit the Society's scope to the natural history of New England, and the dispersal of its collections was begun. In 1946, the Society's extensive library was sold, and soon afterwards the museum building was also disposed of. The Society changed its name to the Boston Museum of Science. It was now no longer concerned with research but only with popular education. It is located today in Boston's Science Park beside the Charles River.
10.2307/3858674|Soil fauna of the Baltimore-Washington Metropolitan Area, MD was assessed as part of the Baltimore Ecosystem Study Long Term Ecological Research Site. The majority of earthworm species were European exotics, and one of them Lumbricus friendi Cognetti, 1904 proved to be a new species to the fauna of North America. The species is very similar to L. terrestris, thus a comparative description of the two species is given.
40959923|The distribution of imperiled stream fish, crayfish, salamander, and freshwater mussel species of Maryland streams in relation to urban land cover and nonnative species was investigated. Over the last 30 years, extinction or extirpation of 13 stream animal species (including the endemic Etheostoma sellare [Maryland Darter]) was observed within the Piedmont region of Maryland, where urbanization has spread extensively outward from Baltimore and Washington, DC, and many non-native species have become established. The presence of imperiled species in this area was correlated with urbanization and non-native species occurrence. However, correlations with land-cover data were stronger than with non-native occurrence. The majority of sites with imperiled species contained less than 10% urban land cover and less than 5% impervious land cover in their catchments. In contrast, stream reaches with non-native species spanned the entire gradient of urban, agriculture, and forested land cover, with the majority of non-native species persisting in streams with over 60% urban and 40% impervious land cover. The persistence of rare species coincident with introduced species in rural portions of Maryland indicates that habitat degradation (like that typically accompanying urbanization) may be the most important threat limiting the distributions of the rarest species that remain in these streams. Limits on urbanization in areas with rare species are needed to maintain regional and global biological diversity. This is particularly important in areas like Maryland that are anticipating extensive human population and urban growth over the next 30 years.
3858499|We evaluated three possible functions of clonal growth related to genet persistence in the root-suckering understory tree pawpaw, Asimina triloba (L.) Dunal: (1) risk spreading through multiplication of stems, (2) enhanced establishment and survival of new stems, and (3) horizontal expansion growth of patches. The number, diameter growth, and spatial distribution of annual stem recruits were examined over three years in a natural population of pawpaw. The rate of stem recruitment was consistently higher than stem mortality. We found no difference in stem turnover rate for patches of different size, indicating that stem production is more than high enough to avoid patch extinction. Although newly formed stems were considerably smaller than previously established stems, they grew and survived as well as established stems. We found no evidence for clonal growth contributing to extensive horizontal expansion of patches. Our results suggest that ensuring survivorship of new stems is the main ecological role of clonal growth in pawpaw.
4499912|Storm-water drainage catch basins are manmade structures that often contain water and organic matter, making them suitable environments for various organisms. We censused organisms inhabiting catch basins in southern Rhode Island in 2002 in an effort to begin to describe these communities. Catch-basin inhabitants were mostly detritivores, including annelids, arthropods, and mollusks that could withstand low oxygen levels and droughts. Our results suggest that catch-basin inhabitants were mostly washed in with rainwater, and populations increased over the summer season as biotic activity resulted in increased nutrient levels later in the summer. In contrast, mosquitoes and other Diptera larvae were abundant earlier in the summer because the adults actively sought catch basins for oviposition sites. Mosquito larvae were likely to be abundant in catch basins with shallow, stagnant water that had relatively low dissolved oxygen and pH, and relatively high total suspended solids, carbon, and nitrogen.
10.2307/3858661|Three nests of Crabro advena from near Chittenango, Madison County, NY were excavated, examined, measured, and drawn. The cell contents were taken to a laboratory, analyzed, weighed, and sent out for identification. Adult Tachinidae comprised the major prey type captured by the wasps. This study further extends the ecological and behavioral variation of C. advena. Information on nesting season, soil type, number of cells per nest, cell depth, number of prey per fully provisioned cell, and prey type from this and five other upstate New York studies are compared.
41810149|In Canada, Lepomis auritus (Redbreast Sunfish) is only found in southwestern New Brunswick, which is the northern limit for the species. In 1989, The Committee on the Status of Endangered Wildlife in Canada (COSEWIC) listed it as a species of special concern due to its limited distribution, and changed the status to data deficient in 2008. The purpose of our study is to begin to build a database of ecological information for the Redbreast Sunfish in New Brunswick. The most northern population occurs in Yoho Lake. Population estimates averaged 386 from 2005 to 2007. The average total length and weight were 12.5  3.1 cm and 42.6  27.3 g, respectively. The length-frequency distributions were consistent over the years, suggesting a stable population structure. Most adult and juvenile sunfish were observed in areas of dense vegetation and large woody debris. Snorkeling surveys were conducted from late June to early July 2005-2007 to assess timing and habitat preference of spawning Redbreast Sunfish. The nests averaged 52.4  10.1 cm in diameter and were 43.9  12.2 cm deep. Nest substrate was sandy with small gravel, and only 33% of the nests were associated with a physical structure in the water column. Overall, the population of Redbreast Sunfish in Yoho Lake appears to be healthy and stable.
40664845|Ammodramus savannarum (Grasshopper Sparrow) is a grassland passerine considered at risk in several regions of eastern USA and Canada. Detailed information is lacking on structure and breeding-habitat components for Grasshopper Sparrows in eastern Canada. We surveyed Grasshopper Sparrows in suitable habitats in southwestern Quebec and described habitat characteristics to increase our knowledge of the species' breeding-habitat associations in eastern Canada. Grasshopper Sparrows were detected in grass-dominated abandoned fields, pastureland, and hayfields generally located on poor sandy soil supporting low and sparse vegetation. Suitable sites with or without Grasshopper Sparrows did not differ in their structural components nor in their plant composition. Sites used by Grasshopper Sparrows were embedded within a perennial crop-dominated matrix where forest cover was reduced, and were larger than sites where they were absent. Conservation and stewardship activities should aim to secure large tracts of grasslands in southwestern Qubec.
10.2307/3858323|Three species of hippoboscid flies were collected from landbirds captured on Bon Portage Island, a small island off the southwestern tip of Nova Scotia. Of the 73 hippoboscids collected, 67 specimens were Ornithomya anchineuria, 5 were Icosta americana and 1 was Ornithoica vicina. One specimen of O. anchineuria was collected from a boreal chickadee and one from a red breasted nuthatch, species which have not previously been recorded as hosts for this hippoboscid species. Juvenile birds were infested more heavily than adult birds. A total infestation rate of 5.74% was found on Bon Portage Island.
41429238|We collected ectoparasites from 5 Myotis septentrionalis (Northern Myotis) and 12 Myotis leibii (Eastern Small-Footed Myotis) captured in Grant County, WV during summer 2008. We recovered Euschoengastia pipistrelli from Northern Myotis and Leptotrombidium myotis, Androlaelaps casalis, Cryptonysuss desultorius, and Ornithodorus kelleyi from Eastern Small-Footed Myotis. This is the first report of parasites from either bat in West Virginia, and each ectoparasite species collected represents a new state host locality record, with C. desultorius and O. kelleyi being new state records. Because records of ectoparasites are often widely scattered and both bats have undergone extensive taxonomic revision, we summarize all available records of ectoparasites from both species of bats.
27744597|Tributary and mainstem corridors represent important fish-connectivity avenues in large riverscapes. We evaluated the connectivity of 40 Monongahela River tributaries in southwestern Pennsylvania and their respective mainstem junctions using a variety of gears. Twelve tributaries were so fragmented by physical and water-quality impediments, comparisons could not be made. Among the 28 remaining tributaries, classified as adventitious (1st3rd order) or ordered (4th5th order), we evaluated fish communities using the Jaccard coefficient of similarity, a cluster analysis, and a Venn diagram. Adventitious tributaries shared 82% of their total faunal complement with ordered tributaries and 29% with the mainstem, while 70% of the ordered ichthyofauna was common to the mainstem. The ichthyofauna of the adventitious tributary network was more distinct and isolated from the mainstem than that of ordered tributaries. In fragmented riverscapes such as this, islands (tributaries) of biodiversity may warrant special protection.
41315953|Recent establishment of invasive Alosa pseudoharengus (Alewife) in Lake Champlain and in the lake's watershed has been cause for concern. Based on three larval specimens newly discovered in the New York State Museum collections, we document Alewife in Lake Champlain in 1929. Therefore, there has been at least one early unsuccessful introduction of Alewife into Lake Champlain and there may have been others that escaped notice. Changing lake conditions may have allowed Alewife to recently become established.
41315961|Genetic findings suggest that 2 types of wolves, Canis lupus (Gray Wolf) and C. lycaon (Eastern Wolf), and/or their hybrids occupy Minnesota (MN), and this study examines adult wolf ear lengths as a possible distinguisher between these two. Photographic evidence suggested that the Eastern Wolf possesses proportionately longer ears than Gray Wolves. Ear lengths from 22 northwestern MN wolves from the early 1970s and 22 Alaskan wolves were used to represent Gray Wolves, and the greatest length of the sample (12.8 cm) was used as the least length to demarcate Eastern Wolf from Gray Wolf influence in the samples. Twenty-three percent of 112 adult wolves from Algonquin Park in eastern Ontario and 30% of 106 recent adult wolves in northeastern MN possessed ears > 12.8 cm. The northeastern MN sample differed significantly from that of current and past northwestern MN wolves. Ear-lengths of wolves in the eastern half of the northeastern MN wolf population were significantly longer than those in the western half of that study area, even though the mean distance between the 2 areas was only 40 km, and the mean length of my 2004-2009 sample was significantly longer than that of 1999-2003. These findings support the hypothesis that Eastern Wolves tend to possess longer ears than do Gray Wolves and suggest a dynamic hybridization process is still underway in MN.
40664873|This study examined the genetic nature and relatedness of Canis latrans (Coyotes) in eastern Massachusetts (i.e., eastern Coyotes). We characterized 67 animals at the mitochondrial DNA control region, and 55 of those at 8 microsatellite loci.Structure analysis and factorial correspondence analysis of the microsatellite genotypes indicated that the eastern Coyotes in Massachusetts clustered with other northeastern Canis populations and away from western Coyotes, C lycaon (Eastern Wolves), and C. lupus (Gray Wolves). They contained mitochondrial haplotypes from both western Coyotes and Eastern Wolves, consistent with their hybrid origin from these two species.There was no evidence of either C lupus familiaris (Domestic Dog) or Gray Wolf mitochondrial DNA in the animals. These results indicate that the eastern Coyote should more appropriately be termed "Coywolf ' to reflect their hybrid (C. latrans x lycaon) origin. Genetic data were also used to assess parental and kinship relationships, and confirmed that family units typically contain an unrelated breeding pair and their offspring.Lastly, a synthesis of knowledge of the eastern Coyote as well as implications for Wolf recovery in the northeast US is provided.
27744570|The Nerodia erythrogaster neglecta (Copper-bellied Watersnake) population north of 40 degrees north latitude is categorized as threatened under the US Endangered Species Act. Previous efforts to use mark-recapture to estimate population size have been unsuccessful because there were so few initial captures. We therefore evaluated the status of the largest presumed subpopulation of this population by using strip transects to provide a conservative (maximum) estimate of density and population size of adults. Our results indicate that the largest presumed adult Copper-bellied Watersnake metapopulation north of 40 degrees north latitude is extremely small, with a total size of 94  22 adults, and is characterized by a population density of 1.17  0.27 adult snakes/ha (95% CI = 0.731.87 snake/ha). This Copper-bellied Watersnake population appears to be in danger of extirpation within the foreseeable future. Recovery will require protecting existing wetland complexes and restoring wetlands and the surrounding upland habitats.
60225658|Cobscook Bay inventory is a historical checklist that documents nearly 800 species of macroinvertebrates found in Cobscook Bay, ME, based on collection records spanning the past 162 years. Information on species occurrence over time has been compiled from published literature, museum collection records, electronic databases, graduate students theses, and species collection lists from invertebrate zoologists. Nearly all records have been reviewed for the validity of identifications by an international group of taxonomic specialists. Accepted species names and their authorities are listed along with alternate names used previously for well over a century. This format results in a historical timeline of the occurrence of species in Cobscook Bay that starts with discovery and continues through past and recent records for each species. It is hoped this database will provide a baseline that will be updated with discoveries of new species, made by developing molecular techniques and observed changes in species occurrence from invasions or local extinctions, to keep its historical perspective intact.
10.2307/3858438|Somatochlora brevicincta is added to the Atlantic Provinces list; Aeshna juncea and S. brevicincta to the Maritime Provinces; A. juncea, A. subarctica, S. brevicincta and S. septentrionalis to New Brunswick; S. albicincta, S. brevicincta and Pantala flavescens to Nova Scotia; A. subarctica, Epitheca spinigera, S. cingulata, S. franklini, Leucorrhinia frigida and P. flavescens to Prince Edward Island.
10.2307/3858401|A recent find of the groundwater-inhabiting copepod crustacean Diacyclops harryi extended the known range of this species far northwestward, to include northern Ohio and the drainage basin of the Laurentian Great Lakes. The species was previously collected in drainages of the Atlantic Slope from New York to North Carolina. Ostracodes tentatively identified as ?Nannocandona n. sp., and amphipods belonging to the subterranean species Bactrurus mucronatus were also found at the Ohio locality.
10.2307/3858322|Between 1994 and 1996 we identified 26 harp seals (Phoca groenlandica Erxleben) between the western shore of Penobscot Bay (44 05 N, 69 05 W) and Calais, Maine (45 11 N, 67 16 W). This represents a dramatic increase in sightings for this area, from which only three previous records have been published. Most sightings occurred between late January and early April. One individual was an adult with a pup, the first evidence for probable whelping in the region. All other individuals were juveniles, with males more abundant than females. Most individuals appeared to be in good health. A single tagged individual was subsequently reported from Fortune Bay, Newfoundland after having traveled at least 1,250 kilometers in an interval of 34 days.
10.2307/3858519|Mobile fishing gear affects biodiversity and habitat in New England offshore waters through selective fishing activity, seabed disturbance, and discarding and encounter mortality. Selective fishing activity results in geographically localized impacts on habitat and more widespread impacts on biodiversity through the selective removal of specific species with a higher economic value. Seabed disturbance by fishing activity results in physical impacts related to resuspension of fine sediments and scarring of the seabed, chemical effect due to resuspension of nutrients, and biological impacts related to alteration of the benthic community structure. Discards and other benthic fauna that encounter mobile gear and are impacted by the interaction, temporarily alter the ecosystem dynamic. In general, the habitat impacts are restricted to areas of heavy fishing activity, and in shallower water are ameliorated by natural processes that regularly disturb the seabed. Effects on biodiversity are more widespread due to the transient nature of many impacted species. Mobile fishing gear produces approximately 75% of the landings from New England offshore waters. Habitat impact and a loss of biodiversity may be considered a cost of seafood production. Preservation of habitat and biodiversity in marine sanctuaries and reserves is recommended to balance the effects of fishing. This is analogous to society's management strategy in the terrestrial environment.
27744538|In anticipation of the loss of Tsuga canadensis (Eastern Hemlock) dominated forests due to infestation by Adelges tsugae (Hemlock Woolly Adelgid), this study assessed the relative abundance of the ecologically important terrestrial salamander, Plethodon cinereus Green (Eastern Red-backed Salamander), in five Eastern Hemlock-dominated stands and four mixed deciduous stands at Harvard Forest in Petersham, MA. Pooling data from four seasons (fall 2003fall 2004; excluding winter), the relative abundance of P. cinereus as measured by the monitoring of artificial cover objects (ACOs) was significantly higher in Eastern Hemlock-dominated stands than in mixed deciduous stands (n = 444 P. cinereus observations). The relative abundance of P. cinereus was not significantly different in the two forest types as measured by natural cover object (NCO) searches over two seasons (fall 2003 and spring 2004), although sample sizes were small (n = 45 P. cinereus observations). This evidence that Eastern Hemlock-dominated forests provide equal or greater quality habitat for P. cinereus as mixed deciduous forests at Harvard Forest contrasts with studies from other areas of Eastern Hemlock's range, which have found the abundance of P. cinereus to be lower in this forest type. The conversion of Eastern Hemlock-dominated forest to mixed deciduous forest will have either have a negative impact or no impact on the relative abundance of P. cinereus at Harvard Forest.
10.2307/3858602|Length-age correlations of mature white suckers (Catostomus commersoni) were made using fish collected for organochlorine analysis in composite fish samples at 16 sites in the Connecticut River basin and seven sites in the Housatonic River basin. Compared to studies from Canadian lakes, the fish in these basins appeared smaller at a given age. Overall, the length-age relation appeared linear after maturity was reached, although the variability in this apparent growth rate was large among sites in both the Connecticut and Housatonic basins. Within the Housatonic basin, two sites with the lowest apparent growth rate were in parts of the river system that had high concentrations of PCBs in the sediment and fish tissue. However, within the Connecticut basin, apparent growth rates were relatively low at two sites where PCBs were not detected. Using the median ages of fish in the composite samples, comparisons were made with the lipid fractions and the PCB concentrations of the samples. Age of fish had no apparent effect on the lipid fraction, although age of fish did appear to influence the PCB concentration of the sample. However, this was probably due to a sampling bias of selecting older fish at more contaminated sites.
10.2307/3858406|First arrival dates for 115 species of migratory breeding birds were gathered by 89 observers across the state of Maine during the spring migration of 1994. Arrival dates in the 15 Biophysical Regions of Maine, regions based on vegetational, climatic, and physiographic patterns, yielded insight into the timing of spring migration. Unexpectedly, few species showed significant differences in their average arrival dates among the Biophysical Regions. Most significant differences involved later arrivals in the far northern portion of Maine. Birds were not late in arriving in the Western Mountains compared to lowland areas of the state. The study provides the most intensive data for a single year on arrival dates of migratory breeding birds in Maine.
25177109|We quantified relative extent of pelage staining in Scalopus aquaticus (eastern mole) as an indicator of scent-gland marking, and evaluated whether staining was associated with colored pelage spots and patches often prevalent on the snout and ventral surface of individuals. Moles were collected from southern Illinois (n = 91) and from Cincinnati, OH (n = 152). Adult moles scent-marked more than juveniles, but pelage staining was independent of breeding season for males and females. Pelage spotting occurred in 33.7% of the sample and was not associated with pelage staining from glandular secretions, as has been suggested by some previous investigators. Pelage spots were most prevalent on the ventral surface. Ventral spotting occurred more often in males than females (P &lt; 0.001). Mean area of ventral spots was 2.81 cm with no differences in area related to sex or age.
4131006|While many amphibians have complex life cycles involving a primarily terrestrial adult phase and an aquatic larval phase, use of terrestrial habits by adult forms remains poorly understood. We used radiotelemetry to track the post-breeding dispersals of 16 female Bufo americanus during the summer and fall of 2001 to determine the extent of upland habitat use by females of this species. Female toads dispersed a minimum of 250 m and up to 1000 m from the breeding pond with the majority (97%) of relocations occurring more than 400 m from the breeding site. Typically dispersal paths were non-random and linear, punctuated by periods of sedentary behavior. During periods of sedentary behavior females confined their activities to an area of several m
10.2307/3858476|Harp seals (Phoca groenlandica) whelp on the North Atlantic pack ice in early spring, move north in the summer and then, historically, return as far south as Nova Scotia in the fall. Because recent reports document increased sightings in the northern Gulf of Maine, we reviewed records of harp seal sightings between Kittery and Rockland, Maine to determine if this increase is also occurring in the southern Gulf. From 1997 to 2001 we found 357 confirmed reports of harp seal sightings. Most (85%) occurred in the first quarter of the year and almost all (96%) were juveniles. The total sightings for 2001 (N=238) greatly exceeded the number in any other year. The weight and health status of the seals sighted in 2001 was no different from those of previous study years. Thus, harp seals are sighted in substantial numbers in both the southern and northern Gulf of Maine. The reason for this general increase, as well as the reason for the spike in 2001, is unknown.
10.2307/3858409|Introductions of sharp-tailed grouse (Tympanuchus phasianellus) into Maine were approved by the Maine Department of Inland Fisheries and Game in 1954. Habitat inventories in 1955 suggested > 1800 km<sup>2</sup> were available for sharptails in Washington County. Seventy sharp-tailed grouse from North Dakota and Nebraska were hard released near feeders in Washington County from 1957 to 1961.
25177098|Nymphaea odorata (American white water lily) is an aquatic plant that displays pronounced heterophylly, the appearance of different leaf forms on a single plant. Water lilies produce leaves that either float or are held above the water's surface. In this paper, we describe the natural history of water lily leaf forms and examine some of the factors that stimulate heterophylly. Over the course of a growing season, the predominant leaf form switches from surface leaves in the early season to aerial leaves in the midseason and then back to surface leaves at season's end. While many factors are known to contribute to heterophylly, our results suggest that changes in the light environment may be the controlling factor in this system.
41429417|Increasing urbanization in the United States presents new challenges and opportunities for wildlife species. One species that is thought to benefit from urbanization is Didelphis virginiana (Virginia Opossum). We used radio-telemetry to determine homerange size of opossums living in an urban area and compared body mass measurements of urban and rural animals to ascertain how urbanization affects this parameter for opossums. Minimum convex polygon estimates for male (37.3  46.0 ha; n = 3) and female home ranges (18.8  15.6 ha; n = 5) were smaller than those reported for opossums in rural areas and similar to those from previous urban studies. Opossums living within the city limits had an average body mass (3.0  0.8 kg) that was 34% larger than those in rural areas (2.2  0.6 kg). These data, combined with previous work, suggest that urban areas provide more resources and may be beneficial to opossum populations.
43287137|Evidence for the presence of the native philomycid slugs Philomycus carolinianus (Carolina Mantleslug) and Megapallifera mutabilis (Changeable Mantleslug) in Wisconsin is given through data on body length, external morphology, traits of the jaw, color pattern, genital morphology, and comparison to the known distribution data for members of the genera. These are the first published records from Wisconsin for these two species.
43287135|We provide a preliminary assessment of the ground-dwelling arthropod community composition in six common coastal dune ecosystem land cover-types at Cape Cod National Seashore. We captured 6815 individual arthropods representing 16 arthropod orders from 1008 terrestrial pitfall trap-nights. The most abundant orders were Hymenoptera, Diptera, Araneae, and Isopoda (76.1%, 8.5%, 5.5%, and 3.3% of total captures, respectively). There were differences in ground-dwelling arthropod community composition among the three early-successional and the three later-successional cover types, with the latter having a greater overall arthropod diversity and higher capture rates for a number of the major arthropod taxa captured. Our report is among the first communitywide analyses of arthropod community composition in coastal dune ecosystems of the northeastern US. The results from this study should be viewed as a preliminary assessment given that: 1) we employed a single trapping method (i.e., pitfall traps); 2) traps were only open during the late-afternoon to early morning hours, and only during the summer months; and 3) captured arthropods were classified only to order. We hope our report will inspire additional research of coastal dune arthropod communities.
3858292|Negative impacts of Phragmites australis expansion in tidal marshes along the Atlantic coast of North America have spurred numerous efforts to eradicate this invader. Nonetheless, Phragmites-dominated marshes may have considerable habitat value, and few studies have examined the short-term effects of various Phragmites-control treatments on resident animals. The present study addresses the impacts of herbicide (Rodeo) spraying and rotary mowing of Phragmites upon the use of the marsh surface by macroinvertebrates and fishes within a few months of treatment. During spring tides in July, August, and September of 2002, fishes and crustaceans leaving flooded marsh areas along the Lieutenant River, a lower Connecticut River tributary, were captured with Breder traps at 30 sites equally distributed among treated Phragmites, untreated Phragmites, and Typha angustifolia marsh areas. Macroinvertebrates were collected in the three types of marsh using litter bags and shallow pit traps placed along transects normal to the river bank. Treatment produced large mats of Phragmites litter which were gradually removed from the marsh surface, but more rapidly near the river bank than farther into the marsh interior. Macroinvertebrates sampled by both methods were as abundant in treated areas as in untreated Phragmites. Fish and crustacean assemblages in the different types of marsh were similar. Overall, the numbers of Fundulus heteroclitus, the dominant fish species, were not significantly different among treated, untreated, and Typha marshes. This fish foraged extensively, and its diets were similar in all three marsh areas. Herbicide treatment and mowing of Phragmites appeared to have no major impact upon macroinvertebrate and fish use of the marsh during the following few months.
4131010|Between 1980 and present, we inventoried freshwater mussel populations at 129 aquatic sites throughout Rhode Island. We found 8 native mussel species and documented the presence of Corbicula sp. (Asiatic clam). The Rhode Island mussel fauna has been degraded by a long history of damming and discharges into rivers. Significant lake populations have also been eliminated by basin reconfigurations, pollution, and urban development. Elliptio complanata is currently the most wide-spread and common Rhode Island species. Pyganodon cataracta and Alasmidonta undulata are also widespread but less common. Anodonta implicata and Pyganodon cataracta may be expanding because of increased fish passage and stocking. Lampsilis radiata, Ligumia nasuta, Margaritifera margaritifera, and Strophitus undulatus are rare or localized and should be considered high conservation priorities in Rhode Island.
25177080|Published data that describe the distribution and reproductive patterns of bats in New Hampshire are sparse. We examined the distribution and reproductive phenology of bats within Pisgah State Park (the largest state park in New Hampshire) located in the southwestern region of the state. A total of 159 bats was captured during 31 net nights at 29 net sites during the summers of 2004 and 2005. In order of decreasing abundance, the most common species were Myotis lucifugus (little brown myotis), Eptesicus fuscus (big brown bat), and M. septentrionalis (northern myotis). Additionally, a single Lasiurus borealis (eastern red bat) was captured. Approximately equal numbers of adult male and female little brown myotis and northern myotis were observed, while sex ratios of big brown bats were female biased. Pregnant females of each species were observed between mid-May and early June, and parturition occurred during mid- to late June. Captures of juvenile little brown myotis indicate that weaning begins during early July (juveniles of other species were not captured).
27744573|Potamilus alatus (Pink Heelsplitter) is a rare freshwater mussel in the Ottawa River drainage (Ontario/Qubec, Canada), at the northeastern limit of its distribution. There are few historical records, and one old specimen from an uncertain locality. The discovery of the Pink Heelsplitter in the Ottawa River drainage dates from 1863. A few specimens were reported up to 1901, but it was August 2001 before another specimen was found in the Ottawa River, as an empty shell at Upper Duck Island, near Ottawa. From 2001 to 2005, the authors found this freshwater mussel at four localities along the Ottawa River, and two in the tributary South Nation River. Records include 4 living specimens and 12 empty shells, of which 8 were in fresh condition. The Pink Heelsplitter seems to persist sparsely in the Ottawa River, but it may have been extirpated from one of its tributaries (South Nation River) before its discovery due to mortality associated with Dreissena polymorpha (Zebra Mussel).
10.2307/3858373|An existing index of biotic integrity (IBI) for Vermont streams performed poorly in assessing coldwater streams with fewer than five species. A coldwater IBI (CWIBI) for these small streams was subsequently devised that effectively measures the integrity of fish assemblages containing two to four species. Fourteen candidate metrics were tested on eighteen least-disturbed stream sites and eleven degraded sites. Impacts to streams that were assessed included mostly physical habitat degradation with some experiencing acid mine drainage. Metrics were evaluated for sensitivity to impact and redundancy. Six were selected for final inclusion into the CWIBI. In composite, the metrics clearly reflected the widely observed shift from brook trout and slimy sculpin-dominated assemblages in least-degraded streams, to minnow-sucker based assemblages with increasing degradation.
25177120|Stream acidification across the northeastern US impacts fish abundance and fish communities. In this study, we document a fish community shift in the upper mainstem of Hubbard Brook (NH) from the presence of at least three species in the 1960s to the presence of only one species today. Cottus cognatus (Slimy Sculpin) and Rhinichthys atratulus (Blacknose Dace) are no longer present in this system, and we suggest that extirpation occurred during a period of chronic acidification during the early 1970s. Today, Salvelinus fontinalis (Brook Trout) is the only fish species present in the upper reaches of the Hubbard Brook Valley. The current upstream extent of Brook Trout is limited primarily by physical obstructions such as waterfalls or cascades. Acidification may lead to chemical barriers that limit upstream movement during high flow in a few streams. As recovery from acid deposition begins, and as regional climate changes, our observations demonstrate the value of periodic evaluations documenting shifts in the distribution and composition of fish communities in headwaters of the northeastern US.
10.2307/3858273|Early documents and maps, landscape features, soils, climate, fossil pollen and charcoal as evidence of vegetation and fire history, modern plants, and insects were used to evaluate past changes in the pitch pine communities on the Rome Sand Plains of central New York. Pitch pine and ericaceous shrubs became important at this locality ca. 1500 to 1600 A. D. Increased disturbance including Indian-caused fires may have triggered this event. Euro-American logging, land clearance, and fire in the 19th and early 20th centuries helped to maintain existing pine barrens and convert mesophytic deciduous-coniferous forest to pine barrens. Fires associated with brush removal, a railroad that ran through the area, blueberry production, and arson destroyed soil organic horizons and decreased available moisture and nutrients favoring xerophytic over mesophytic plant species. Pine barrens at this locality are reverting to mesophytic deciduous-coniferous forest with abandonment of the railroad and late 20th century fire suppression efforts.
3858423|Bear Oak (Quercus ilicifolia Wang.) presents a unique architecture in which there is a distinct outer set of leaves on the perimeter of the bush and another set of leaves on the inside. In this paper we examine the relationship between plant architecture, leaf-level physiology, and leaf damage patterns by insects. We measured net photosynthesis, stomatal conductance, and leaf water potential in response to different levels of herbivory or leaf-rolling in both outer- and inner-canopy leaves. Leaf-rolling occurred naturally and was mimicked by hand-rolling leaves to different degrees. Net photosynthesis, stomatal conductance, and leaf water potential varied depending upon a combination of leaf position in the crown and degree of rolling, but not herbivory. Outer-canopy leaves had significantly higher rates of net photosynthesis and stomatal conductance, but lower leaf water potentials and leaf areas than inner-canopy leaves. Leaf rolling had an effect upon photosynthesis and stomatal conductance, which varied depending on whether projected areas of rolled leaves or projected areas of the leaves after they had been unrolled were considered. In both canopy layers, using unrolled projected leaf areas, stomatal conductance and net photosynthesis decreased with increasing leaf rolling. In the outer canopy, using projected areas of rolled leaves, photosynthesis decreased while stomatal conductance increased with increasing leaf rolling. In the inner canopy, photosynthesis increased while stomatal conductance was unchanged with increasing leaf rolling. In all cases, leaf water potential increased with increasing leaf rolling. These results suggest (in order of likelihood) that either rolling creates an area of closed stomata (stomatal patchiness) proportional to the amount of rolling, or leaf specific hydraulic conductance increases, or stomata are responding to changes in the boundary layer of the leaf.
25177146|In 2006, we collected two Sorex dispar (Long-tailed Shrew) specimens from MacDonald Pond, NS, Canada, which is a range extension of this elusive species. Trapping data revealed significantly lower numbers of Myodes (= Clethrionomys) gapperi (Red-backed Vole) bycatch than expected based on previous studies. Red-backed Voles are the most common rodent found in Nova Scotia forests. Here we report an apparent population crash of Red-backed Voles in Nova Scotia, along with a closer examination of a Cape Breton Island population.
3858456|Nest success is the most important demographic variable influencing rates of population change of Eastern Wild Turkeys (Meleagris gallopavo silvestris [L.] Vieillot) in the Northeast. Most studies of nest success and survival of turkeys have occurred in forested or agricultural areas and may not be representative of turkey populations occupying suburban environments. Development associated with suburbanization has led to habitat degradation, and it is becoming increasingly important to understand how these land use changes affect the sustainability of Wild Turkey populations. Our objectives were to quantify survival and reproduction of Eastern Wild Turkeys in the suburbanized region of southeastern Connecticut, and to compare these results to studies in forested and agricultural regions of the northeastern United States. Nest success (35%) and mortality during the reproductive period (46%) were at the low and high extremes, respectively, of ranges previously reported in the Northeast. High rates of predation on females and nests resulted in rates of nest success that were lower than rates reported for most neighboring states. Turkey nests in suburban environments may be at increased risk of predation because habitat fragmentation may lead to high densities of nest predators and increased detection of nests.
40664887|The highly variable and strongly sexually dimorphic crane fly Tanyptera dorsalis (Antlered Crane Fly) is reported as a new state record from Michigan. The geographic distribution of the species and its biology are summarized, and a photograph of an adult of each sex is provided.
3858305|We conducted surveys of aquatic habitats during the spring and summer of 1995 in Canaan Valley, WV, to describe the diversity of aquatic habitats in the valley and identify issues that may threaten the viability of aquatic species. We assessed physical habitat and water chemistry of 126 ponds and 82 stream sites, and related habitat characteristics to landscape variables such as geology and terrain. Based on our analyses, we found two issues likely to affect the viability of aquatic populations in the valley. The first issue was acid rain and the extent to which it potentially limits the distribution of aquatic and semi-aquatic species, particularly in headwater portions of the watershed. We estimate that nearly 46%, or 56 kilometers of stream, had pH levels that would not support survival and reproduction of Salvelinuw fontinalis (brook trout), one of the most acid-tolerant fishes in the eastern US. The second issue was the influence of Castor canadensis (beaver) activity. In the Canaan Valley State Park portion of the valley, beaver have transformed 4.7 kilometers of stream (approximately 17% of the total) to pond habitat through their dam building. This has resulted in an increase in pond habitat, a decrease in stream habitat, and a fragmented stream network (i.e., beaver ponds dispersed among stream reaches). In addition, beaver have eliminated an undetermined amount of forested riparian area through their foraging activities. Depending on the perspective, beaver-mediated changes can be viewed as positive or negative. Increases in pond habitat may increase habitat heterogeneity with consequent increases in biological diversity. In contrast, flooding associated with beaver activity may eliminate lowland wetlands and associated species, create barriers to fish dispersal, and possibly contribute to low dissolved oxygen levels in the Blackwater River. We recommend that future management strategies for the wildlife refuge be viewed in the context of these two issues, and that the responses of multiple assemblages be incorporated in the design of refuge management plans.
4130977|Narragansett Bay, RI, is considered to be a relatively well-mixed estuary not subject to extensive seasonal stratification and hypoxia. However, results of surveys of dissolved oxygen (DO) for the upper half of Narragansett Bay on August 15, 2001 and on August 6, 2002 have documented evidence of wide-area intermittent subpycnoclinal hypoxia <tex-math>$(\leq 3\ \text{mg l}^{-1})$</tex-math>. For the August 2001 survey, severe hypoxic to near-anoxic levels were confined to the Providence River, the western side of Greenwich Bay, and a small area of Mount Hope Bay, but hypoxic levels below 2 mg 1<sup>-1</sup> were also experienced on the western side of the Upper Bay in an extensive, shallow oxygen minimum. Hypoxic bottom waters <tex-math>$(\leq 3\ \text{mg l}^{-1})$</tex-math> extended from the Upper Bay into the upper West Passage. Hypoxic waters covered approximately 66 km<sup>2</sup> (36%) of the survey area for August 15, 2001. A more extensive and severe hypoxic event occurred during the August 2002 survey, when near-bottom waters of the entire Providence River and a large area of the Upper Bay and upper East Passage were severely hypoxic to near-anoxic, while other parts of the Upper Bay, upper East Passage and upper West Passage were hypoxic at depths greater than 5 m. Limited data for Mount Hope Bay in August 2002 documented small hypoxic areas of the southern end of that subembayment. The total hypoxic area for August 6, 2002 was approximately 93 km<sup>2</sup> (65%) of the total area surveyed. Decreased estuarine circulation due to a severe drought may have contributed to the wider extent of hypoxic and near-anoxic waters in large areas of the upper half of Narragansett Bay recorded in the August 6, 2002 survey as compared with the August 15, 2001 survey. Results of the oxygen surveys affirm sediment profile camera work and limited benthic studies that previously suggested parts of the Mid Bay have become subject to increased organic loading impacts. These impacts can take place even under drought conditions, when only point source nutrients are the major contributors to nutrient loadings entering the upper half of Narragansett Bay.
4130992|The return of Castor canadensis (beaver) to areas of their former range has restored a natural disturbance regime to wetland landscapes in North America. We used aerial photographs to study wetland creation and modification by beaver in Acadia National Park, ME, during a period of beaver population expansion (1944-1997). We quantified the change in the number of available ponded wetlands in the landscape during the study period and documented an 89% increase in ponded wetlands between 1944 and 1997. Spatial and temporal patterns of beaver colonization and changes in wetland vegetation and hydrology were recorded at six time periods (1944, 1953, 1970, 1979, 1985, and 1997) for 33 beaver-created wetlands for which we had current amphibian assemblage data. Beaver colonization generally converted forested wetlands and riparian areas to open water and emergent wetlands, resulting in significant increases in the percentage of open water and emergent wetland habitat and a decrease in the percentage of forested wetland area at the study sites. Temporal colonization of beaver wetlands initially favored large sites occurring lower in the watersheds; sites that were impounded later were generally smaller, higher in the watershed, and more likely to be abandoned by the end of our study. Our results suggest that beaver have not only increased the number of available breeding sites in the landscape for pond-breeding amphibians, but also the resulting mosaic of active and abandoned beaver wetlands is likely to provide suitable breeding habitat for a diversity of species.
41495822|This study evaluated relationships between the serpentine soil from a waste-rock dump of the abandoned Libiola sulphide mine (NW Italy) and its pioneer vegetation. We identified the tolerance of various species to environmental conditions and evaluated physical or chemical factors that influenced the first plants to colonize this stressful environment. Thirteen sampling sites were identified in the rock dump from characterization of surface or near-surface oxidation zone and vegetation type. Sampling sites were analyzed for slope, pH, mineralogy, soil chemistry, floristic composition, and the percent coverage of each species. In all the plots, species richness and vegetation cover were extremely low. The flora showed an acidophilous character.
41495840|The floristic quality index is a widely used method for ecological condition assessments in the United States. The foundation of the index is the conservatism concept, which estimates a species' ecological sensitivity or propensity to occur in areas least altered by humans. Plant species are assigned coefficients of conservatism (CoC) where ruderal and exotic species receive the lowest scores, competitors and matrix species intermediate scores, and remnant-dependent species the highest scores. The method has spread to over half of the United States, but New York and New England still lack CoC coverage. With funding from the Environmental Protection Agency and using nine of the region's most experienced botanists, an effort was undertaken to select CoC for the complete vascular flora of each New England state and New York State. Frequency distributions and rank correlations of CoC varied widely among states, except that each flora contained a large proportion of exotic species. Few taxa were scored with low confidence, although CoC at the extreme ends of the scale tended to be scored with higher confidence than more intermediate CoC. Differences in mean CoC and other summary measures for two botanists working independently on the same state indicate estimator bias in the ranking process, and calls for additional expert opinions, more careful instruction, and calibration of botanists, or the use of objective scoring methods.
41684248|Barbour's Pond is a 4.45-ha pond located in Garrett Mountain Reservation in Passaic County in northern New Jersey, one of the most densely populated regions in the United States. Despite its small size and surrounding urban sprawl, the shallow waters of this pond hold 18 species of molluscs. Monthly samples from March 2004 through March 2006 found the highest diversity in December 2004, and in January, June, and July 2005. Additional samples were taken in April 2007 and May 2010 to spot-check relative diversity years after the original sampling period. Total molluscan abundance was greatest in July and November 2004, possibly reflecting new late spring and autumn cohorts. Univariate statistics demonstrate that this pond has a temporally stable and diverse malacofauna. Analysis, of basic environmental parameters including temperature and pH, however, showed little correlation with molluscan diversity over time, underscoring the stable yet complex nature of biodiversity of this small urban pond.
27744582|Alces americanus (Moose) are relatively new to Labrador, having only colonized the area in the late 1940s, and little is known about this population. We conducted large-scale aerial surveys for Moose in a 122,000-km2 area during winter 2000 and in a 29,900-km2 area in winter 2001. Moose densities were low in each area (1.63.0 Moose per 100 km2). Bull:cow ratios were nearly even and calf:cow ratios were relatively high, indicative of a population exposed to little hunting or predation pressure. Twinning rates were low, suggesting low range productivity. Moose used riparian areas and hardwood stands in higher proportion than their availability in winter (P &lt; 0.05). Open habitats (conifer-lichen woodlands, bogs and fens, burned forest, and barren areas) were used in lower proportion than their availability. These data may provide the basis for developing habitat suitability maps for Moose in late winter across central Labrador.
10.2307/3858446|Hooded seals (Cystophora cristata) whelp on the North Atlantic pack ice in early spring and then historically distribute as far south as Nova Scotia. Recent reports document increased sightings in the northern Gulf of Maine. To determine the number of sightings in the southern Gulf of Maine, we reviewed records of stranded hooded seals between Kittery and Rockland, Maine, for 1997-1999 and found 84 confirmed reports. The 1998 totals (43), exceeded those in 1997 (20) or 1999 (21). Most sightings occurred during the winter months, with six in the summer/fall of 1999. Thus, hooded seals are sighted in substantial numbers in both the southern and northern Gulf of Maine.
40664841|Palaemon macrodactylus (Oriental Shrimp), native to estuarine waters of Southeast Asia, has been reported outside of its native range. The spreading of this species to new regions has been well documented, and its disjunct distribution strongly speaks for its transport being attributed to ballast water. In this paper, we report the first record of P. macrodactylus from the eastern coast of the United States and in the estuarine system of New York City (NYC). While this animal has been reported to have crossed the Pacific, and has been found in the eastern Atlantic along the coasts of Spain, France, Germany, and the British Isles, and in the southwestern Atlantic off the coast of Argentina, it has not been previously sighted in the northwest Atlantic. Our preliminary life-history data indicate that the size range for the 98 adult individuals in the 2001 collection was from 2.05 to 5.05 cm, and exhibited a one-to-one sex ratio. The finding of gravid females among these shrimp collected from 2001-2002 and again in 2008 indicates that the oriental shrimp populations in the coastal waters of NYC have become established, and show reproductive activity from May through October. Further studies are required to evaluate whether P. macrodactylus poses a threat to native aquatic organisms in this region.
41495807|Compartmentation of metals in specific tissues, cells, and subcellular compartments is considered a metal-tolerance mechanism in metal hyperaccumulator plants. In this study, we investigated the accumulation of Ni in the trichomes of a serpentine endemic Ni hyperaccumulator plant, Alyssum inflatum, native to western Iran. Elemental analysis of plants from their natural habitat showed that the Ni concentration of trichomes was not higher than in the shoot, suggesting that Ni does not preferentially accumulate in trichomes. Treatment of plants by adding different concentrations of Ni to the growth medium showed that staining of trichomes with dimethylglyoxime (a specific stain for Ni) increased as concentrations of external Ni increased. Accumulation occurred in the base of trichomes and, by increasing the concentration of Ni, accumulation extended to the rays and cell walls. The results showed that trichomes can accumulate high concentrations of Ni and that Ni accumulation can be under the control of Ni concentration in the shoot.
60225654| We characterized the biomass and productivity of relatively short-lived red and green algae at seven intertidal sites in Cobscook Bay during the summers of 1995 and 1996 in coves (low flow, n = 4) and headlands (high flow, n = 3) across two to three tidal levels. We chose Palmaria palmata (pseudoperennial) as a proxy for red algae and Ulva lactuca and Enteromorpha spp. ("r" species) as surrogates for green algae. We provide ancillary data on temperature, salinity, nutrients, and tissue nutrients. Also, we examined nutrient relationships in the Bay, near and away from a salmon farm. Estimates of productivity were based on biomass. The minimum estimate of net productivity for a site was based on the highest biomass value obtained on any one date over the summer sampling period. The maximum estimate of productivity was based on minimum productivity multiplied by frond generation times. Generally, maximum biomass values for both groups occurred in the low intertidal. Mean ( 95% CI) maximum biomass values for foliose green algae was 362.1  246.3 g dry wt m<sup>-2</sup> (range = 4.5 to 1335.6 g dry wt m<sup>-2</sup>yr<sup>-1</sup>). With one exception, highest values (349 to 988 g dry wt <tex-math>$\text{m}^{-2}\text{day}^{-1}$</tex-math>), were observed at sites adjacent to a salmon farm and were dominated by foliose forms (Ulva and Enteromorpha). Sites located away from the salmon farms were dominated by filamentous forms (Cladophora and Rhizoclonium). We estimate that total (areal) production by foliose green algae in Cobscook Bay is 3.0  10<sup>9</sup> g dry wt yr<sup>-1</sup> or 9.0  <tex-math>$10^{8}\text{g C yr}^{-1}$</tex-math>. Mean maximum biomass for Palmaria was 564.2  324.1 g dry wt m<sup>-2</sup>, or 169.4 g C m<sup>-2</sup>. Productivity estimates for Palmaria were variable, and upper estimates ranged from 240 to 830 g dry wt m<sup>-2</sup>yr<sup>-1</sup>. Total areal productivity for red algae is estimated at 1.2  10<sup>9</sup> g dry wt yr<sup>-1</sup>, or 3.6  <tex-math>$10^{8}\text{g C yr}^{-1}$</tex-math>. These algae are contributing large amounts of carbon to the Bay's ecosystem, which appear to be cycled through grazer and detrital pathways within the Bay. 
41810152|To maximize reproductive success, parents may differentially invest in sons and daughters, i.e., sex-biased parental investment. Preferential provisioning behavior has been reported in one population o Sialia sialis (Eastern Bluebird) and attributed to local resource competition. We studied the provisioning behavior of Eastern Bluebirds in Madison County, KY in 2004. We experimentally manipulated brood sex ratios in 24 bluebird nests, creating female-biased (n = 8), male-biased (n = 5), and control (n = 11) nests. Following manipulation, nests were videotaped to record adult provisioning behavior. Brood sex ratio had no effect on the provisioning behavior of either male or female Eastern Bluebirds. Similarly, we found no effect of brood sex ratio on the provisioning rates of either male or female bluebirds for control broods that naturally differed in number of male and female nestlings (n = 9; 5 male-biased and 4 female-biased). Our results contrast with those of a previous study that found that male Eastern Bluebirds fed nestling males less than nestling females, possibly because sons were more likely to compete with them for resources in the future. However, local resource competition seems unlikely because Eastern Bluebirds exhibit low rates of philopatry. Given these conflicting results, additional study is needed to determine if factors such as latitude, food availability, or availability of other resources might influence the provisioning behavior of male Eastern Bluebirds.
4130728|Humboldt and the Ocean. A Synopsis of his Contributions to Marine Sciences. During his "Journey to the Equinoctial Regions of the New Continent" about 200 years ago, Alexander von Humboldt (1769-1859) made many oceanographic observations in the North Atlantic and Eastern Pacific Ocean. His main interest was the interrelation between climate and global ocean circulation, which is still one of the major topics in current marine research. Ever since, in 1790, he first saw the open ocean at the North Sea coast, when he, in the company of Georg Forster embarked on his trip to England, Humboldt had a longing for the ocean, especially the Pacific, and a strong interest in matters relating to oceanography. Unfortunately his marine texts are scattered over his major publications, many notes have never been published. Humboldt did not finish his decade-long work on "Oceanica," a synopsis of his marine natural history ideas. Meanwhile it is generally accepted that Humboldt, although not an oceanographer in the modern meaning of the word, certainly belongs to the list of pioneers of marine sciences. Geographers and oceanographers of Kiel University, have especially covered Humboldts lasting marine legacy in the last century. His innovative and classical concepts of climate-driven thermohaline ocean circulation are background for some current international marine research projects.
41684251|The effect of Odocoileus virginianus (White-tailed Deer) on Lupinus perennis (Sundial Lupine) was quantified for a site in Worcester County, MD. The reproductive output of Lupine protected by deer exclosures was compared with Lupine that received no protection from deer. Lupine in the exclosures had a higher likelihood of producing seed pods and produced a greater number of seed pods per inflorescence. The implications of these results on Callophrys irus (Frosted Elfins) are discussed.
60225657|Cobscook Bay, a boreal, macrotidal estuary in the northeastern Gulf of Maine is noted for its species richness and has been the site of extensive natural history investigations. In spite of this level of investigative activity, no quantitative survey of the subtidal, macroinvertebrate communities exist. Here we present the results of a 1975 benthic grab survey of outer Cobscook Bay prior to recent salmon aquaculture and port development. The limited 11-station survey resulted in the identification of 172 taxa. Densities ranged from 870 to 12,970 m<sup>-2</sup>. Multivariate and qualitative analyses clearly dissected the station set into sandy cove stations and coarse sediment channel stations. Cove stations were characterized by burrowing and tube-dwelling infauna, while channel station fauna was epifaunal. Community distribution is controlled by strong tidal currents and resulting sharp geological discontinuities. Because 70% of the Bay bottom is floored by gravel, the epifaunal community characterizing the channel stations may be the most representative of the Bay. The grab sampler certainly underestimated large filter feeders that may be important in the nutrient budget of the Bay. Future surveys need to be more extensive and use a combination of sampling methods to quantitatively measure all components of the community.
10.2307/3858676|We used fecal analysis to describe the diet of Eptesicus fuscus in Pennsylvania and western Maryland. We examined spatial variation in diet composition among three populations and temporal variation within a maternity colony. Temporal patterns of prey use were compared with similar data collected previously from a maternity colony in Indiana. Overall, Coleoptera (58-82%), especially Scarabaeidae (14-31%), were the dominant prey items. Hemiptera, primarily Acrosternum hilare (5-19%), were also major prey, and Tettigoniidae (not previously reported) were prey of two populations (6%, 17%). Significant spatial and temporal variation existed in diet composition among populations and use of major prey types, respectively. Comparison of temporal data collected in this study and in Indiana indicated a nearly identical pattern in the use of Scarabaeidae. These insects are abundant in the spring, and the data suggest widespread specialization on Scarabaeidae in April and May. Several insects preyed on by E. fuscus in this study are serious agricultural pests.
4131001|Progeny of a wild female of Hyalophora cecropia (Linnaeus) (Lepidoptera: Saturniidae) were reared and appear to be natural hybrids resulting from a mating with Hyalophora columbia (Smith).
10.2307/3858435|We surveyed collections and computerized data bases in the Shippensburg University Vertebrate Museum and the Carnegie Museum of Natural History's Section of Mammals to document noteworthy distributional records for ten species of small mammals of special concern or special scientific interest collected in Pennsylvania. These records are principally from the past 25 years. All records contained herein are documented by voucher specimens in the two museums surveyed. The ten species are: rock shrew (Sorex dispar), pygmy shrew (S. hoyi), water shrew (S. palustris), least shrew (Cryptotis parva), small-footed myotis (Myotis leibii), northern Myotis (M. septentrionalis), silver-haired bat (Lasionycteris noctivagans), northern flying squirrel (Glaucomys sabrinus), rock vole (Microtus chrotorrhinus), and southern bog lemming (Synaptomys cooperi). The number of new voucher specimens ranged from three in Cryptotis parva to 233 in Sorex hoyi. The number of new county records ranged from zero in M. leibii and G. sabrinus to 10 each in S. dispar and S. hoyi.
40959921|Levels of environmental protection vary among watersheds, and assessing how well conservation efforts protect threatened faunal groups is a critical need for management. Almost the entire 114 km of the Chagrin River is designated as scenic by the state of Ohio, which implies good water quality and community efforts to maintain and improve water resource integrity. We examined mussel diversity and abundance across 30 sites. The mussels present remained largely restricted to the upper reaches. One species, Lampsilis radiata luteola, dominated the assemblage of the upper Chagrin, which now includes only six additional species, none of which are very abundant: Lasmigona costata, Lasmigona compressa, Pyganodon grandis, Strophitus undulatus, Utterbackia imbecillis, and Anodontoides ferussacianus. One additional species, Lampsilis cardium, was the only species found living in the lower Chagrin. Applying the Shannon index of diversity indicated that the Chagrin River has a more depauperate fauna than neighboring watersheds, and therefore, the current passive conservation efforts may be insufficient to protect these small isolated populations of remaining species.
3858335|Pylodictis olivaris (flathead catfish) is a large, obligate carnivore native to drainages of the central United States that has been introduced widely beyond its native range. We report on the introduction of flathead catfish into the Delaware and Susquehanna River drainages, which represents the northernmost occurrences among Atlantic drainages. In the Delaware Basin, flathead catfish have been found in the Schuylkill River and the mainstem of the Delaware River. Recent sampling activities in the Schuylkill River suggest successful reproduction and establishment of a viable population there. In the Susquehanna basin, the fish has been found in the lower and central portion of the river mainstem. As in the Delaware Basin, recent sampling indicates that reproduction is occurring in the Susquehanna River. The introduction of this species has the potential to adversely affect ongoing anadromous fish restoration programs and native fish conservation efforts in the Delaware and Susquehanna basins. A cooperative effort will be required to mitigate the effects of this introduction.
3858691|Lizard behavior can be influenced by ultimate forces such as adaptation and phylogeny, and proximate forces such as temperature and rainfall. Italian wall lizards (Podarcis sicula campestris) were successfully introduced into two locations in the USA, both at latitudes similar to their probable sources in Italy. Behavioral differences between native and introduced populations are likely due to proximate forces. From 1999-2000, we documented the seasonal and diel behavior of wall lizards in New York. We observed a bimodal activity pattern during the summer and a unimodal activity pattern in spring and fall, which has been reported for native populations in Italy. Unlike Italian populations, New York lizards were completely inactive during winter months, which is probably due to the much lower minimum winter temperatures in New York.
41684255|Nekton tidal migration patterns were examined in oligo-mesohaline intertidal salt marsh creeks using underwater video observations collected throughout multiple tidal cycles (i.e., flood-ebb) during summer 2005-2006. Underwater video observations indicated that species composition and abundances varied with tide stage. Three intertidal salt marsh species (Fundulus heteroclitus, Morone americana, Menidia menidia) were the most abundant species observed. In general, resident species were most abundant in early flood and late ebb tide stages, whereas transient species were most abundant around slack high tide. F heteroclitus displayed a consistent symmetrical tidal migration pattern and primarily occurred in early flood and late ebb tide stages. M. americana occurred throughout flood and high tides, but were largely absent from intertidal creeks during ebb tide. M. menidia was observed during all tide stages, but displayed no distinct migration patterns. The results of this study highlight the advantages and disadvantages of using underwater video for examining small-scale tidal migrations of nekton in intertidal salt marsh creeks.
4499917|Xanthoria parietina, a conspicuous orange foliose lichen, has been doubtfully recorded as part of the Ontario lichen flora because the previous documented reports were very old (1868 and 1917) and it had never been reported since. Here, we document a number of new sightings, all in southern Ontario. A previous report of this lichen from "Longulac" that was interpreted as Long Lake in Frontenac County is corrected to Longlac in the Thunder Bay District, and the specimen proved to be Xanthomendoza hasseana. A search for the lichen around Belleville, one of the original localities, proved fruitless. It is still not clear whether the new sightings of Xanthoria parietina represent a reintroduction of this coastal species to the inland sites, or whether the lichen has persisted in southern Ontario for almost 140 years, but was never reported. Substrate enrichment (eutrophication due to agricultural activity) in the region is one explanation for the spread of the lichen in southern Ontario.
41315950|Establishment of many invasive species, including the Eurasian thistles Carduus nutans and C. acanthoides, is believed to be promoted by disturbance. Prior research suggests that emergence and early survival of these two weeds is far higher on bare ground than in areas with interspecific competition, but this relationship has not been well quantified. We studied the effects of microsite size and watering regime on the emergence and early survival of these invasive thistles. Microsite competition was found to significantly negatively affect successful emergence and first-month survivorship of both species, while additional water was not found to significantly increase seedling emergence. These findings suggest that adequate bare ground is an important predictor of successful thistle establishment, and thus that conservation practices aimed at reducing available microsites should help to limit the invasion of these two species.
41684254|The prevalence of parasite infections in Littorina littorea (Common Periwinkle) was examined at 16 rocky intertidal sites along the New Hampshire coastline over three summers (2006 to 2008). We sampled over a relatively small spatial scale (21 km) and expected that the prevalence of infections in L. littorea would be similar between sites over this sampling area. In total, 1983 snails were collected from areas at mean low water during spring tides. Snail size (mm), gender, and type of parasitic infection were noted for all snails. Eleven percent of snails collected were infected with rediae and cercariae of the trematodes Cryptocotyle lingua or Cercara parvicaudata; one snail had a double infection of both trematodes. The prevalence of infection at sites ranged from 1.9% to 30.1%. At all sites, female snails outnumbered male snails, and a greater proportion of females were infected than males. Large snails were more likely to be infected with trematodes at 3 sites, while a higher level of infection was found in small snails at 1 site. Snails at wave-protected sites were more likely to be infected than snails at wave-exposed sites. No relationship was found between the number of gulls at a site and the prevalence of infection. Although temporal variation in levels of prevalence in parasitic infections may explain some of our site-to-site differences, our data show large spatial variation of parasite prevalence in L. littorea over a minimum distance of 0.5 km and provide a foundation to test hypotheses concerning the susceptibility of female and immature (small) snails to infection.
4499933| We completed laboratory-feeding studies that demonstrated preference of the headwater stream fishes Gambusia holbrooki (Mosquitofish) and Clinostomus funduloides (Rosyside Dace) for smaller Gammarus pseudolimnaeus (amphipods) over larger ones. We also submerged oak leaf-litter bags in sections of streams with and without these fish predators. After three weeks, the mean number  s.e. of amphipods per litter bag in streams with fish was significantly lower (289  50 vs. 978  122) and the average size of amphipods was significantly larger (13.9  0.1 mg vs. 8.1  0.1 mg), relative to streams without fish. The quantity and quality of leaf litter, however, were not significantly different. Top-down predation may have altered the population structure of stream-dwelling amphipods, but did not change leaf decomposition over the time of the study. 
41429419|Dams fragment watersheds and prevent anadromous fishes from reaching historic spawning habitat. Sedgeunkedunk Stream, a small tributary to the Penobscot River (Maine), has been the focus of efforts to reestablish marine-freshwater connectivity and restore anadromous fishes via the removal of two barriers to fish migration. Currently, Petromyzon marinus (Sea Lamprey) is the only anadromous fish known to spawn successfully in the stream downstream of the lowermost dam. Here, we describe the distribution and abundance of a spawning population of Sea Lamprey in Sedgeunkedunk Stream, prior to and in anticipation of habitat increase after the completion of one barrier removal. In 2008, we estimated the abundance of Sea Lamprey and its nests using daily stream surveys and an open-population mark-recapture model. We captured 47 Sea Lamprey and implanted each with a PIT tag so that we could track movements and nest associations of individual fish. The spawning migration began on 18 June, and the last living individual was observed on 27 June. We located 31 nests, distributed from head-of-tide to the lowermost dam; no spawners or nests were observed in the tidally influenced zone or upstream of this dam. Mean longevity in the stream and the number of nests attended were correlated with arrival date; early migrants were alive longer and attended more nests than later migrants. Males were more likely to be observed away from a nest, or attending three or more nests, than were females, which attended usually one or two nests. We observed a negative association between nest abundance and substrate cover by fine sediment. Based on their observed movements in the system, and the extent of their habitat use, we anticipate that spawning Sea Lamprey will recolonize formerly inaccessible habitat after dam removals.
3858629|To provide a method for estimating fish size from fish otoliths for forensic applications or other predictive uses, morphometric measurements were obtained from three centrarchid fishes (pumpkinseed [Lepomis gibbosus], rock bass [Ambloplites rupestris], and smallmouth bass [Micropterus dolomieu]), two percids (yellow perch [Perca flavescens] and walleye [Stizostedion vitreum]), and one clupeid (alewife [Alosa pseudoharengus]) from the eastern basin of Lake Ontario. These species are the principal or economically important prey of Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus), whose diet can be determined from regurgitated digestive pellets containing fish otoliths. A fuller understanding of the ecosystem roles of cormorants requires estimation of prey-fish size, obtainable from regressions of otolith length on fish length. Up to 100 fish of each species were collected from eastern Lake Ontario and measured for total length and otolith length. Least-squares regressions of otolith length on fish length were calculated for all species, covering life-stage ranges of immature fish to large adults near maximum known size. The regressions with 95% confidence intervals may be applicable outside the Lake Ontario ecosystem if used with caution.
41315969|We document use of surge tunnels at an abandoned quarry as hibernacula for bats and suggest that other such tunnels may be easily modified to create new hibernacula. Surge tunnels in Alpena County, MI, made possible a 230-km range extension for Perimyotis subflavus (Eastern Pipistrelle).
10.2307/3858585|Forest decline is viewed here as a subtle change that develops slowly and is difficult to distinguish from natural variation. This paper focuses on the approaches and data needed to understand causes of decline in complex systems. The challenge is to balance apparent explanations derived from parts of systems (reductionist view) against understanding when all the parts function together (integrative view). As an example, I present data from studies of a gradient in acidic deposition from southern Illinois to southern Ohio. The 50-year cumulative deposition of sulfate and nitrate ions increased eastward, with a total difference at the two ends of the gradient on the order of 4.0 equivalents/m<sup>2</sup>. The surface soils showed a change of 0.6 pH units, consistent with the acid inputs. The Ca:Al ratio, at 0.13 in Ohio, was much lower than at the Illinois site (0.35), consistent with the differences in pH. Tree death was significantly higher during the 1978-87 decade, in comparison to the previous decade, despite little difference in weather. Tree biomass increment studies showed gross growth during the 1968-77 decade of about 50  10<sup>6</sup> g/ha, while growth during the 1978-87 decade ranged from a negative 32.7  10<sup>6</sup> g/ha (in Ohio) to positive values in Indiana and Illinois. Soil faunal populations are lower in the high-dose sites by 30 to 95 percent, and species diversity is 50 to 90 percent lower depending on the genus or family. Soil earthworm population modeling projects normal population densities at a pH 4.8 and no individuals at pH 4.0, explaining the differences in density observed along the gradient in the field. Leaf decomposition data showed differences in early decomposition rates, with the lowest pH site (with the fewest soil animals) losing initial biomass most rapidly, followed later by a very slow rate of reduction for the remaining biomass. This result may explain the 10-fold greater observed Ao depth in Ohio compared with Illinois. The results, taken as a whole, illustrate scientific methods that go beyond the prevailing reductionist approach and provide evidence that the decline is pollutant-induced and consistent spatially, temporally, and functionally.
43287095|Spatial and temporal dynamics of shore zone fish and Callinectes sapidus (Blue Crab) densities in tidal creeks of the Delaware Coastal Bays were examined during the spring/summer nursery period and in the winter of 2004, 2005, and early 2006 to identify underlying abiotic conditions driving the structure of species assemblages. Distinct spring/summer species assemblages were identified within separate tidal creeks, correlated with dissolved oxygen range. Differences were driven by the dominance of hypoxia-tolerant species in the intensely developed White Creek watershed and hypoxia-sensitive species in the less-developed Miller Creek watershed. In winter, species assemblages were somewhat homogenized and were less influenced by abiotic conditions. Results of this study indicate that the fish and Blue Crab assemblage in the shore zone of tidal creeks in the Delaware Coastal Bays is affected primarily by location-specific influences, such as anthropogenic alteration and associated hypoxia, particularly in the spring and summer.
43287103|The success of annual migrations for songbirds is greatly affected by habitat quality at stopover sites, particularly in relation to food needed for rapid refueling. The abundance and nutritional quality of important food resources may be linked to the presence of deciduous shrub species that provide seasonal fruits in the fall and support insects in the spring. The objective of this study was to determine whether migrating songbirds benefit from resources provided by native or invasive fruit-bearing shrubs found at 2 birdbanding stations in Rochester, NY. We conducted nutritional analyses (energy density, fat content, total soluble solids) on the fruits of common shrub species at the study sites, monitored removal of the fall fruits of focal native and invasive shrub species in the field, and measured the abundance of midgesa common insect resource for migrating songbirdssupported by the focal shrub species in the spring. The highest fat content and energy densities were found in fruits of native shrubs, ranging from 6.57 to 48.72% fat and 18.83 to 28.68 kJ/g of energy. All invasive fruits had 0.99% fat and 17.17 kJ/g of energy. We also found a significant positive correlation between fat and energy content of the fruits. Native dogwood fruits were consumed by migrating songbirds at higher rates than invasive fruits over the fall migration period. However, there was no clear pattern of midge abundance between native and invasive shrub species during the spring migration period. Our results suggest that fruits of native shrubs are of greater nutritional value to migrating songbirds than the fruits of invasive shrubs during fall migration, which is supported by the higher removal rates by songbirds of native dogwood fruits than fruits of the 4 other invasive fruit species. This finding suggests that removal of invasive fruit-bearing shrubs or plants will not negatively impact migrating birds when high-quality native fruit-bearing shrubs are available. However, additional study on the relative value of these shrubs in the spring and over multiple seasons is needed to provide insight into their overall value for birds during annual migrations.
10.2307/3858645|Soils, vegetation, fossil pollen and charcoal, disturbance history, early documents and maps, and insects were used to interpret past changes in the central Suffolk County, Long Island, New York pine barrens. Before Euro-American settlement pitch pine-oak-heath woodland, pitch pine-scrub oak barrens, and dwarf pine plains probably covered portions of the broad outwash plain south of the Ronkonkoma Moraine. These communities would have occurred on deep, coarse-textured, excessively drained, nutrient-impoverished, acidic, fire-prone sandy soils. Logging, land clearance, and repeated human-caused fires promoted the expansion of barrens vegetation through much of central Suffolk County during the 17th-19th centuries. Pitch pine became established on the disturbed loamy, sandy, and gravelly soils. Scrub oak sprouted profusely on these soils in response to repeated burning of the undergrowth. The seed for this expansion dispersed from trees and shrubs growing in adjacent oak-pitch pine and pitch pine-oak woodlands. With 20th century fire suppression, pine barrens reverted to oak-hardwood forests in northcentral Suffolk County and oak-pine and pine-oak forests in southcentral Suffolk County. Pine barrens persisted in sections of eastcentral and southcentral Suffolk County in response to periodic burning.
25177118|The diet of larval Semotilus atromaculatus (Creek Chubs) was examined in fish collected from an urbanized stream with a limited food base. Chironomids comprised nearly 90% of food items. They appeared in the gut of early larvae and continued to be the main food source as size increased; cladocerans were the second most abundant food item. Both average and maximum prey size were examined. Overall, average prey size increases significantly with standard length (SL). Maximum prey size is gape-limited twice, from the early to mid-mesolarval stage and again in the late mesolarval stage. Significant differences were observed in the maximum size of chironomids ingested among fish of four size ranges, &lt;8.0 mm SL, 8.0-9.6 mm SL, 9.7-14.1 mm SL, and &gt;14.1 mm SL, indicating maximum prey size increases rapidly at 8.0 mm SL, 9.6 mm SL, and again at 14.1 mm SL, yet maximum prey size within each group remains constant. The degree of cranial ossification and fin development at these break points was examined with cleared and double-stained specimens. For fishes &lt;8.0 mm SL, ossification is just commencing, and maximum prey size is gape limited. At 9.6 mm SL, ossification appeared nearly complete in the caudal fin and in key bones involved in food capture and processing. There was no obvious correlation between ossification of the skeleton and the third break point at 14.1 mm SL. The results from this study suggest that ossification of feeding apparatus and caudal fin may play an important role in the ability of Creek Chubs to capture larger prey in the mesolarval stage at about 9.6 mm SL, but other factors likely account for the increase in prey size at about 14 mm SL.
43288173|I watched blow fly (Diptera: Calliphoridae) larvae in western Maine that had consumed six animal carcasses so that I could identify patterns relating to when, how, and why they left the carcasses. The blow fly larvae stayed under the carcasses on hot, dry days, and then left them on rainy nights, traveling in random directions. Following several rainless days, the larvae left the carcasses at dawn on days with heavy dew and proceeded in a single 1-2-cm-wide column directly toward the rising sun. Species composition of one larvae column was nearly all or exclusively Phormia regina.
41315939|Currently there is little known about day-roosts used by Myotis leibii (Eastern Small-footed Myotis) in the Central Appalachians. To provide insights on this species' day-roosting habits, we successfully radiotracked 5 lactating females and 5 non-reproductive males to 57 day-roosts during June and July 2008. Eastern Small-footed Myotis used ground-level rock roosts in talus slopes and rock fields (n = 53), and roosts in vertical cliff faces (n = 4). Ground-level roosts had low canopy cover (males: x = 14.1  2.1 [SE] %, females: x = 19.6  3.1%), but were located close to vegetation (males: x = 3.6  0.4 m, females: x = 4.8  0.8 m). Males switched roosts every 1.1  0.04 days, traveled 41.2  7.8 m between consecutive roosts, and roosted 415  49.0 m from capture locations. Females switched roosts every 1.1  0.06 days, traveled 66.5  14.6 m between consecutive roosts, and roosted 368  24.0 m from capture locations. Ground-level roosts used by females were closer to ephemeral water sources (x = 226  31.2 m, n = 25) than those used by males (x = 458  16.7 m, n = 28; W= 401, P < 0.01). These data illustrate the importance of rock habitat with high solar exposure near protective cover and water in day-roost selection by Eastern Small-footed Myotis.
3858312|The objectives of this project were to: assess the presence of aquatic macrophyte species assemblages, associations, and/or communities; assess the distribution of Cabomba caroliniana (fanwort) and other macrophytes with water depth; and analyze the spatial distribution of fanwort and other macrophytes using a Geographical Information System (GIS). The study site was a shallow, eutrophic lake in North Reading, MA. Macrophytes were sampled along 36 transects located across the littoral zone. Ordination analysis showed some strong macrophyte associations and the presence of four partially distinct communities. However, the two most abundant species at the site, Cabomba and an aquatic moss (Drepanocladus sp.) had both limited associations with other species and were strongly segregated from one another. Our results show that spatial and distributional analyses can be coupled with macrophyte composition data to provide robust assessments of macrophyte species patterns. These techniques are especially valuable when assessing the extent and influence of non-native, invasive macrophyte species.
10.2307/3858574|Differences in lichen presence and abundance in natural and managed coniferous forests of Nova Scotia were studied in thirty stands categorized as 1) harvested and thinned, 2) harvested and unthinned, and 3) naturally disturbed. The frequency of cover of thirty-four lichen taxa was assessed and analysed to examine the effects of forest management history. Nine taxa had significantly greater abundance and two taxa only occurred in old growth forests compared to younger stages. Twenty taxa had significantly greater abundance and five taxa only occurred in natural forests compared to managed forests. The abundance and habitat of each taxon is discussed. Multiple linear regression was used to determine the forest structural features that best explained the abundance of each lichen taxon. Tree age, remnant trees, crown closure, tree volume, and tree spacing were structural features that most consistently influenced lichen abundance.
10.2307/3858488|Seedlings (2-0 bare root) of Japanese larch (Larix leptolepis), white pine (Pinus strobus), and bear oak (Quercus ilicifolia) were partially defoliated by clipping half of each leaf per plant. Control plants were not clipped. Photosynthesis, water potential, leaf nitrogen concentration, leaf mass, and total mass were measured one week and nine weeks after treatment. Compensatory responses varied by species and timing. Defoliated Japanese larch had increased photosynthesis rates and foliar nitrogen concentration relative to control plants one week after treatment. Total biomass was also increased relative to controls by the end of the experiment. Defoliated pine seedlings had increased leaf mass and total biomass relative to controls by the end of the experiment. Defoliated oak seedlings showed no compensatory responses. Leaf lifespan did not appear to be a determinant of response amount or type. Instead, we suggest that degree of allocation of resources to aboveground growth, as indicated by root-to-shoot ratio, may be related to degree of compensation to partial defoliation.
10.2307/3858407|Huge oyster shell heaps along the banks of the Damariscotta River were accumulated by North American Indians prior to the arrival of Europeans. The presence of the oysters and their eventual demise reflects the history of sea-level rise and attendant changes in the river. Archaeology helps to fix the date of salt water incursion into the river above Newcastle and Damariscotta and offers an hypothesis for the extirpation of oysters from the river.
10.2307/3858553|Wheeler Marsh in Milford, Connecticut provides habitat for diamondback terrapins (Malaclemys terrapin), a unique estuarine turtle. To assess potential prey availability, the distribution and abundances of marsh snails (Melampus bidentatus), mud snails (Ilyanassa obsoleta), marsh mussels (Geukensia demissa), and fiddler crabs (Uca spp.) were studied in several sub-habitats (marsh surface, marsh edge, creek bank, and mudflats) of five tidal creeks. Almost all terrapins have been found in one section of the marsh, Turtle Creek, where all four prey species were present in large numbers. However, high numbers of some prey were found in other sections of the marsh as well, suggesting that resource availability may not be the primary determinant of terrapin distribution. The physical structure, plant density, and tidal amplitudes of salt marsh creeks may also be important determinants of terrapin distribution via their influence on resource accessibility.
3858311|We conducted a study of the diet of the federally endangered Indiana bat (Myotis sodalis) at an urban/rural interface near Indianapolis International Airport in summer 2004. We used two 1-m
41495804|Teucrium chamaedrys is the most variable species in the genus Teucrium, fitting Kruckeberg's category of a bodenvag species. Six populations distributed on serpentine and 3 populations off serpentine were investigated, and 23 morphological features were studied by uni varate and multi varate statistical analyses. The variation was higher for the vegetative features and not clearly expressed for the generative ones. In addition, metal concentration in the populations and soil were studied. The species tolerant to the serpentine conditions demonstrated specific morphological differences in stem length, stem length up to the first leave pair, and internode length between second and third leave pairs. Morphological differences, geographical isolation, and preliminary results on the karyology of T chamaedrys in Bulgaria, suggest that the populations studied were different ecotypes.
4499896| We studied the effects of browsing by Odocoileus virginianus (white-tailed deer) on the native and non-native vegetation in a mixed oak-beech forest in Rock Creek Park, Washington, DC. We compared the thickness and cover of vegetation up to 2 m in height, and species richness of native and non-native plants in 17 exclosed (1 x 4 m) and 17 control plots from 2001-2004. Over the four-year period, foraging by deer suppressed the thickness of vegetation  1 m in height, reduced the cover of herbaceous, woody, and native plants, and generally decreased the species richness of native and woody plants. Browsing had no effects on the species richness of non-native plants, but generally reduced the prevalence of Celastrus orbiculatus (oriental bittersweet). Of the dominant canopy species, browsing affected Quercus spp. (oak) regeneration, but had no apparent effects on Fagus grandifolia (American beech). These results indicate that white-tailed deer are having a detrimental effect on the structure and species richness of native plants in this forest, and as a consequence, diminishing the value of the habitat for wildlife. In addition, white-tailed deer may help control the spread of oriental bittersweet in forest interiors, particularly where this species occurs at relatively low levels. If deer browsing is left uncontrolled in this forest, we predict that its future composition will shift towards one with fewer species and one dominated almost exclusively by American beech. 
25177129|In order to assess the effect of bird feeders on the distribution of ticks on a residential lawn, ticks collected beneath bird feeders were compared to similar control areas on a residential property in Worcester County, MA. Host-seeking ticks were sampled from August 8, 2005 to July 25, 2007 by dragging with white flannel cloth. All ticks were counted and removed from the cloth. Sampling was conducted 38 times. A total of 12 ticks (larvae and nymphs) was collected. Significantly more ticks were collected from under the bird feeders (n = 10) than the control area (n = 2).
10.2307/3858619|The terrestrial planarian Bipalium adventitium Hyman, 1943, a predator of earthworms, was first identified in the United States about a half century ago and is believed to have been introduced from Asia. Since that time, anecdotal reports have indicated its presence in six states and have suggested that the flatworm may spread via human activities. To better understand the potential threat posed by B. adventitium, we investigated the extent of its dispersal in New York State, its current distribution in relation to human land-use patterns, its reproductive modes, and its predation on local earthworm species. We found specimens of B. adventitium in 13 counties of New York State. Their abundance in urban/suburban gardens and lawns suggests that dispersal has been primarily passive, by transport with the roots of replanted trees, bushes, or grasses. They reproduce both sexually, producing egg cases, and asexually, via fragmentation. They aggressively preyed on all species of earthworms that were offered, often attacking and consuming earthworms many times their mass. Its rapid spread, successful reproduction, and effective predation on many local earthworm species indicate that B. adventitium may represent a significant threat to soil ecosystems in the Northeast.
10.2307/3858370|During 1993 and 1994 an extensive qualitative survey was conducted on the unionid community in Patterson Creek, an Atlantic slope stream in Grant and Mineral counties, West Virginia. The primary purpose of this survey was to determine the status of two federal species of concern. Unionids were found at 17 of the 23 sites surveyed and represented eight species. The number of taxa per site ranged from 0 to 6. The taxon listed as Lampsilis spp. may represent either the native L. cariosa, the introduced L. cardium, or both with possible intergrades. Lampsilis spp. were observed alive at 11 sites, and empty shells were found at an additional six sites. Alasmidonta varicosa (federal species of concern) was found alive at 12 of the 23 sites and shell material at an additional two sites. Specimens of A. varicosa ranged from 25.1 mm to 80.2 mm in length, and appeared to represent a healthy reproducing population. Only one valve of Lasmigona subviridis (federal species of concern) was observed in Patterson Creek during this survey. Other species found during this survey included Alasmidonta undulata, Elliptio complanata, E. fisheriana, and Strophitus undulatus. Although many impacts were evident throughout the watershed (i.e., cattle access to the stream, streambank degradation, lack of riparian canopy, storm-water runoff, poultry farming, and increased urbanization) this stream has a relatively diverse unionid fauna. Knowing what still remains in Patterson Creek today, we can only speculate, due to the lack of historical data, that this stream must have once been home to a diverse and abundant unionid fauna.
3858500|The exotic tree, Acer platanoides, is increasing in forests of north-eastern North America, largely within the range of its native congener, Acer saccharum. A combination of field and controlled experiments was used on seeds and seedlings of these congeners to determine species characteristics that may be contributing to these floristic changes. Acer platanoides experienced lower rates of seed predation than A. saccharum in field experiments. Differences in the dispersal and allocation characteristics of the two species were small and not likely to explain the relative success of A. platanoides. Green-house-grown seedlings of A. platanoides were much larger than those of A. saccharum because of differences in seed size, not differences in growth rate. These data suggest that preferential seed predation and initial seed size differences may explain greater relative success in Acer platanoides seedlings.
10.2307/3858271|Using data collected at 203 randomly selected lakes in eight states in northeastern USA, we present maps of distributions and native status for 22 fish species generally characteristic of warmwater lakes, mostly water-column feeders, belonging to four families: Centrarchidae (sunfish and bass), Esocidae (pike and pickerel), Moronidae (white perch), and Percidae (yellow perch, walleye, and darters). Pumpkinseed and yellow perch were the most widespread species in our survey, collected in 74% and 72% of lakes, respectively. Five centrarchid species -- largemouth bass, bluegill, smallmouth bass, black crappie, and rock bass -- were collected in 55%, 32%, 31%, 22%, and 15% of the sampled lakes, respectively, and were judged as non-native in the majority of those lakes. Chain pickerel, white perch, redbreast sunfish, and tessellated darter were collected in 45%, 19%, 14%, and 10% of lakes. The remaining species were taken in <10% of the sampled lakes. Physical (surface area, depth, elevation), chemical (pH, total phosphorus), and watershed disturbance characteristics of the lakes show distinct species-specific patterns.
43287113|Alliaria petiolata (Garlic Mustard) decreases diversity of native plants and introduces novel litter inputs to forests, but whether Garlic Mustard's presence influences detritivores is unclear. Our goal was to determine if Garlic Mustard alters springtail (detritivore) densities during early invasion. We obtained epigeal (litter, humus, and soil) cores from invaded and uninvaded areas in a Pinus strobus (White Pine) forest and used high-gradient dynamic sampling to extract springtails. Invaded areas contained nearly three times more springtails than uninvaded areas, attributable to two springtail morphospecies from Collembola families Tomoceridae and Entomobryidae. Higher pH in invaded epigeal samples correlated with increased springtail abundance. pH alkalization also correlated with increased proportion of juvenile rosettes in mixed stands. Our results suggest a possible role for pH modulation of springtail abundance in response to Garlic Mustard invasion.
4499934|Previous freshwater mussel surveys (1915-1997) at sites in the upper North Fork Holston River watershed upstream of Saltville, VA, documented 21 species. To assess current status of the fauna, approximately 363 survey hours were spent qualitatively sampling 44 sites in a 77-km reach of the upper river between Saltville and Ceres during 2000-2004. Thirteen species of live freshwater mussels were collected. Species richness appears to have declined only slightly over the last 100 years in this reach of river. However, declines in abundance are now evident in a 6.4-km reach immediately upstream of Saltville. A die-off of federally endangered Fusconaia cor (shiny pigtoe) and candidate species Lexingtonia dolabelloides (slabside pearlymussel) was documented in the upper river during 1999-2002, but the cause was not identified.
10.2307/3858513|This paper serves to set the stage for the conference on the history, status, and future of New England's offshore fisheries. From a global perspective, it provides a brief overview of the geological, physical, and biological processes and features that make New England one of the world's most productive temperate shelf regions, exceeding the primary and secondary production of other renowned temperate fishing grounds. Bathymetry, climate, and tides create a complex mixing regime that enhances nutrient cycling and primary productivity especially over Georges Bank and northeast Gulf of Maine. The glacially influenced coast and seabed create a unique benthic habitat along the US east coast that is a nursery to lobsters and cod, two of the regions most valuable fisheries. Considering the diversity of its habitats, however, New England's marine fauna are rather impoverished due to extinctions related to polar cooling, glaciation, and the absence of suitable refuge habitat to the south. Today's faunal distributions are attributed to recovered ranges pushed south during the glaciation and reinvasions from Europe. The steep north-south thermal gradient along the coast makes it a faunal transition zone. Over the past four centuries, man has contributed to dramatic shifts in the composition of New England's marine biotic communities through harvesting and species introductions. Growing human pressure and the dynamic nature of the productivity of New England waters raise increasing concern over the sustainability of its fisheries.
41495814|Asbestos exposure has been linked to adverse human health effects including asbestosis and mesothelioma. As such, mining and utilization of asbestos is restricted or has been banned in about 50 countries since 1990. Nevertheless, abandoned asbestos mines, mostly in serpentine areas, persist as sources of hazardous airborne fibers. Revegetation of asbestos mine spoils has been proposed as a way by which to stabilize asbestos-bearing substrate, thereby reducing fiber dispersion into the air. No study to date, however, has evaluated the revegetation's effectiveness of reducing airborne asbestos pollution. In this study, we evaluated the effect of natural revegetation on the air dispersion of asbestos fibers from asbestos-rich serpentine lithosoils at an abandoned chrysotile mine. Air sampling of vegetated and barren plots within the mine demonstrated that vegetative cover significantly reduced asbestos dispersion into the air (50% reduction with 15-40% vegetative cover). Additionally, the effectiveness of several native, locally collected serpentine-tolerant species to revegetate the asbestos mine spoil, including Minuartia and Thymus species, was evaluated. Mat-forming, serpentine endemic Thymus sp. proved to be particularly effective at revegetating the mine spoil, having high transplantation survival, growth rates, and reproductive output.
10.2307/3858369|A wild population of Loesel's twayblade, Liparis loeselii (L.) Richard (Orchidaceae), in Franklin County, Massachusetts, was studied from 1993 to 1999. Mortality in one subpopulation was 97% over a five year interval, but population size declined only 52% in the same period, suggesting that recruitment, rather than longevity of individuals, is an important factor in maintenance of the population. Mean leaf length, height, and number of flowers increased over the duration of the study, perhaps due to competition. Individuals with flowers and fruit in one year were more likely to produce flowers and fruit in the following year than those without flowers or fruit. Herbivore activity appeared to strongly influence survivorship. The decline of this species in many parts of its North American range may be a result of both habitat destruction and reforestation since the decline of agriculture in the 19th century.
25177126|Many aspects of the ecology of Myotis leibii (Eastern Small-footed Myotis) are unknown due to the rarity of the species throughout its range in the eastern United States. Few studies have examined Eastern Small-footed Myotis migration and roosting behavior. Until a recent discovery of a population of Eastern Small-footed Myotis using an abandoned railroad tunnel in western Maryland, most observations from the state were limited to records of a few individuals at scattered caves, mines, and tunnels. We used harp traps to capture Eastern Small-footed Myotis at an abandoned railroad tunnel located in Allegany County, in spring 2007. We captured 47 Eastern Small-footed Myotis and equipped four females with radio transmitters. Telemetry revealed that female Eastern Small-footed Myotis migrated 1.1 km to nearby shale barrens and roosted in rock outcrops of various sizes during spring. Females moved &lt;50 m between successive diurnal roosts, which did not differ from random sites located within the shale barrens in terms of site characteristics. Migratory distances and, consequently, geographic ranges of female Eastern Small-footed Myotis probably are influenced by the availability of hibernacula and roosting sites across the landscape.
10.2307/3858282|Harbor seal (Phoca vitulina Linnaeus) abundance and distribution were examined in the Saint John Harbour, Saint John, New Brunswick, Canada, from May-August of 1999 and 2000. Seal counts in the water were made with respect to tide, time of day, season, and weather. Maximum seal counts per week were compared to peaks in fish runs of alewife (Alosa pseudoharengus Wilson) and Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar Linnaeus). Significantly greater numbers of seals were observed at high tide and with lower temperatures. Seal abundance peaked in early May and coincided directly with the presence of alewife. Seal numbers were not found to be significantly related to adult Atlantic salmon migration through the harbor.
10.2307/3858367|Vernal ponds are important aquatic habitat for many species of amphibians and invertebrates. While many aspects of such ponds have been investigated, small mammal populations in the adjacent upland [catchment] habitat are largely unstudied. We selected three ponds in central Massachusetts to determine whether the presence of vernal ponds in forested habitat influences shrew species composition and abundance. Pitfall-trap arrays were installed in pond catchment basins and in adjacent upland forest habitat. A total of 2124 small mammals of nine species were captured during 3880 trap nights. Of these, 341 were shrews of three species. We found no significant differences in abundance between pond-side and upland habitat for any shrew species. In addition, no differences were found in structural and vegetation characteristics between habitats. While there may be some indication that vernal ponds provide some residual effects during dry periods, vernal ponds in the northeastern United States are small and highly variable in hydroperiod, apparently providing an unreliable resource for shrews.
41429423|Clangula hyemalis (Long-tailed Ducks) were observed diving in the wake of the Nantucket Island ferry during December over a 5-year period (20052009). The unusual diving behavior appeared to be related to foraging, but could not be confirmed. Long-tailed Ducks typically feed on more mobile prey than most other diving ducks, and it is speculated that the propeller wash in shallow water dislodged or disturbed prey and provided an enhanced feeding opportunity. Long-tailed Ducks collected while feeding in a disturbed area near a clamming boat not far from the ferry channel were feeding predominantly on Crangon septemspinosa (Sand Shrimp) that apparently had been dislodged by the clamming operation.
3858504|Phoxichilidium tubulariae exhibits an encysted protonymphon development. Its fast developmental mode reduced the typical number of pycnogonid molts and developmental time from months as described for other pycnogonid species to fewer than 21 days. This developmental strategy exploited the seasonal abundance of Tubularia larynx. The larvae hatched, infested the hydroid, and developed inside the gastrovascular cavity. The larvae developed for several molts and then emerged, destroying the hydranth. Annual population dynamics of P. tubulariae were seasonal; density of adult animals was highest in mid-to-late summer with reproduction being greatest in July and August. The abundance of pycnogonids peaked as the hydroid population declined.
43288168|Research addressing the implications of forest harvesting for mammals has focused on different categories of silvicultural prescriptions. However, the effects of these prescriptions on forest structure can vary considerably, and categories of prescriptions rarely incorporate the market for which timber is being harvested. The latter information is important given the recent shift from conventional round-wood harvesting to wholetree removal for biofuels production, and corresponding reductions in post-harvest woody biomass left on-site. Our goal was to assess the effects of forest harvesting for biofuels on mammal species. Objectives included 1) evaluating how structural components influenced mammals, and 2) assessing the role of scale on species-habitat relationships. We sampled mammals in a 97-ha area of hardwood forest in the Adirondack Mountains in New York that had been partially harvested for biofuels in 2010. We used Sherman traps and track plates to assess the distribution of mammals. We captured 6 species of mammals in Sherman traps and identified 8 species using track plates. Mammalian species varied in their sensitivity to changes in habitat characteristics associated with biofuels harvest (coarse woody debris and slash). Our study reveals a complex suite of factors driving the response of mammals to variation in forest structure as a result of biofuels production. The harvesting practices used in the focal region are unlikely to lead to dramatic changes in the abundance and distribution of individual species of small mammals, but may influence the occurrence of common species including deer-mice and voles.
27744544|A survey was conducted in New Brunswick (NB) over 5 years (19962000), to assess the status of Quercus macrocarpa (Bur Oak). Bur Oak in NB is separated from the fringe of its contiguous native range by approximately 750 km. Historically, the species occurred throughout the lower Saint John River Valley and in the floodplains of the Grand Lake Complex. The range in NB has been reduced and fragmented, and now consists of a few small populations, along with scattered individuals, occupying a combined area of less than 5 km2. The most isolated of the small populations in NB is at least 40 km from the nearest seed or pollen source. Elements of a conservation strategy are presented, which include preservation of existing stands by government and non-government organizations, landowner education, and restoration planting in appropriate habitats.
4499903| A Turdus migratorius (American Robin) nest was found in southern New Brunswick, Canada, containing 52 mature sporocarps ("truffles") of Elaphomyces granulatus (false truffle), a species of hypogeous fungus common across North America. Teeth marks on the truffles indicated they had been cached in the nest by a Tamiasciurus hudsonicus (red squirrel). The truffles appeared to have been air-dried before caching and were well preserved. Mean ( SD) weight of each truffle was 3.3  1.4 g, with a total weight of cached material of 173 g. Although caching of epigeous fungus by squirrels is well documented in the literature, records of cached hypogeous fungi are relatively uncommon, and caches involving disused bird nests appear to be rarely encountered. 
3858416|We studied the activity of 11 and movement of 6 radio-tagged eastern coyotes (Canis latrans var.) inhabiting suburban Cape Cod, MA between June 1998 and August 2001. Coyotes were nocturnal year round except for breeding females, which were active day and night during April-June. Twenty four-hour movements of coyotes ranged up to 31.9 linear km and averaged 23.5  7.3 (SD) km from 5-14 radio-fixes during each 24 hr monitoring period. There was no difference between male and female movement rates. Coyotes moved through altered open areas more than expected when compared to residential and natural areas. Coyotes inhabiting urbanized areas generally use residential areas for traveling and/or foraging.
10.2307/3858582|As a result of historical and current human impacts on natural ecosystems worldwide, most modern landscapes involve an element of cultural influence. In New England, for example, although the landscape was largely forested prior to European settlement, it was highly dynamic in response to changing climatic conditions, natural disturbance processes, and American Indian activities. European settlement in the 17th and 18th centuries initiated a dramatic transformation, as much of the land was deforested and farmed and the remainder was logged, grazed or burned. Since the mid 19th century, agriculture and forest use have declined, forest area and age have increased, and the land has become more natural than at any time in the preceeding centuries. However, despite the natural appearance of many portions of the modern landscape, a legacy of intensive past use remains in vegetation structure and composition, landscape patterns, and ongoing dynamics. Consequently, an understanding of the history of human influence should be an integral part of ecological study and a critical component of conservation planning and resource management. A major lesson that emerges from historical perspectives is the recognition that there are no static baseline conditions that can be used for experimental control or decision-making. Rather, change is an inherent characteristic of all landscapes and future change is inevitable. Although ecological research can provide insights into the historical and environmental factors that underlie current conditions and that may determine future changes, it does not provide unequivocal guidelines for policy decisions, for these are inherently subjective in nature. The current changes in wildlife populations across the eastern United States, notably an increase in forest interior species and a decline in open-habitat species, underscores the dynamics as well as the policy dilemmas inherent in landscapes that have been strongly modified by human activities. Recent increases in species such as moose, beaver, and bear and a corresponding decline in open-habitat species such as meadowlarks and grasshopper sparrows may be largely understood as a consequence of historical changes in land cover. These dramatic changes pose ethical dilemmas as some native species threaten human property or health, while considerable effort and management may be required to maintain the flora and fauna as well as the conservation and aesthetic values associated with cultural landscapes. Historical perspectives increase our understanding of the dynamic nature of the landscape, the long-term influence of humans as components of functioning ecosystems, and the cultural basis for our conservation decisions.
10.2307/3858347|A 1989 storm damaged 35% of the trees and 47% of the basal area in a 3 hectare plot in Smith Woods. Larger trees were more likely to be damaged. More hemlock and beech had broken stems than were uprooted; sugar maple and tulip trees were primarily uprooted. Hemlock ages ranged up to >300 years, whereas the sugar maples were <140 years. Two cohorts of tulip trees were apparent, indicating episodic recruitment following disturbance.
10.2307/3858566|In a fragment of second-growth forest in Massachusetts, woody vines (mostly Rhus radicans) grew on 45% of the trees, and were disproportionately abundant on large trees and on trees near the edge of the fragment. Among hickories, Carya ovata, a species known for its unique "shaggy" bark, hosted more vines than C. glabra.
3858635|We examined the growth characteristics of 303 Atlantic sturgeon, Acipenser oxyrinchus, caught in the commercial fishery off the New Jersey coast from 1992 to 1994 (fork length range: 93-219 cm). Sections taken from the leading pectoral fin ray were used to age each sturgeon. Ages ranged from 5-26 years. Von Bertalanffy growth models for males and females fit well, but test statistics (t-test, maximum likelihood) failed to reject the null hypothesis that growth was not significantly different between sexes. Consequently, all data were pooled and the combined data gave L<sub></sub> and K estimates of 174.2 cm and 0.144, respectively. Our growth data do not fit the pattern of slower growth and increased size in more northernly latitudes for Atlantic sturgeon observed in other work. Lack of uniformity of our growth data may be due to (1) the sturgeon fishery harvesting multiple stocks having different growth rates, and (2) size limits for the commercial fishery having created a bias in estimating growth parameters.
41810154|We describe the winter hibernacula of three individual Acris crepitans (Northern Cricket Frogs) around Glenmere Lake in southeastern New York. Frogs were tracked by following fluorescent powder trails of treated Northern Cricket Frogs in late fall 2010. Three frogs were tracked to two subterranean burrows that were 87 m and 140 m from the nearest aquatic habitat. To determine if frogs survived until spring, the burrows were covered by small enclosures in late winter 2011. Northern Cricket Frogs emerged into both enclosures: one frog in one enclosure on 17 March and two frogs into the other enclosure on 10 April. This report confirms the use of subterranean terrestrial habitat distant from water as wintering habitat of Northern Cricket Frogs.
25177121|Algal community composition at three sites above and five sites below Lock and Dam 19 on the upper Mississippi River was determined from samples taken during July, August, September, and November of 2003, and April and June of 2004, to compare the above-dam navigation-channel and vegetation-bed phytoplankton communities, and determine what effect the power plant and lock and dam may have on the mixing of these communities. We predicted there would be clear differences in community composition and abundance between the three above-dam locations and a more uniform community composition below the dam due to mixing. No site-specific or predictable patterns to suggest an effect of the power plant or lock and dam were detected. Nonmetric multidimensional scaling ordination supports the idea that temporal factors may play a larger role in structuring localized phytoplankton communities in this section of the upper Mississippi River.
25177135|To determine habitat characteristics that influence Sciurus niger (Eastern Fox Squirrel) abundance and distribution within a suburban/urban landscape in the midwestern United States, I documented the density and placement of fox squirrel leaf nests in 20 woodlots in the Indianapolis metropolitan area, Marion County, IN. The woodlots varied in size (0.94 to 19.5 ha), approximate age, shape, and degree of isolation from other woodlots and suitable squirrel habitat in the surrounding area. Only 8.0% of nests were located in a tree with another nest, and nests were randomly distributed in all but one woodlot, where they were uniformly dispersed. Nest density was not significantly related to woodlot size, approximate age, shape, or degree of isolation. Fox squirrel leaf nests were not found in greater densities along the edge of each woodlot, contrary to previous reports. My results suggest that the distribution patterns of fox squirrels within suburban/urban landscapes are similar to patterns within landscapes fragmented by agriculture.
43288162|Lynx canadensis (Canada Lynx) mostly occurs in the continental area of North America. Two populations in Atlantic Canada on Newfoundland and Cape Breton Island are geographically isolated. Past studies have revealed geographical and environmental barriers that have significantly impacted processes that ultimately influence the ecology, genetics, evolution, and conservation of the species' populations. However, equivocal results were obtained as to the morphological and genetic characteristics of the species, and very little is known in this regard on the island populations. The aim of this study was to investigate skull morphometric variation between the species' populations. We examined and measured 18 craniodental characters on 171 specimens spanning the species' Canadian range, including most of its boreal forest range and the 2 island populations. Univariate and multivariate analyses provided evidence for significant morphological differentiation among the species' populations. Factors pertaining to geographical isolation of populations accounted for the bulk of the craniometrie variation for both males and females. Principal component analysis (PCA) identified 3 geographical groups: mainland Canada, Newfoundland, and Cape Breton Island. Consistent with the "island rule", analysis of variance with the Sheff significant difference post hoc test and PC A results indicated that continental individuals were significantly larger than those from Cape Breton Island, whereas those from Newfoundland, which is significantly larger than Cape Breton Island, exhibited intermediate size. Shape-related variations in the frontal bone among the 3 geographical groups were detected. Six out of the 18 craniodental characters, i.e., postorbital constriction, mastoid, mandible, upper tooth row, mandibular molar row, and upper canine to canine segment, can be used in discriminant function analysis to distinguish between these 3 groups and correctly classify more than 90% of the individuals from the insular populations. We showed for the first time differentiation between Canada Lynx populations on Cape Breton Island and those in the rest of Canada. Individuals from Cape Breton Island appeared the smallest. Contrary to expectations, the Rocky Mountains did not prove to be a significant geographical barrier, resulting in no morphological differentiation of the British Columbia populations. The morphological variations we reported in this study should benefit conservation and management programs in Atlantic Canada, where the levels of the Canada Lynx population are critically low. Conservation plans that strive to maintain the genetic variation documented in the present study should help ensure the preservation of sufficient variability for adaptation to changing environmental conditions required for the long-term viability of populations of Canada Lynx.
10.2307/3858622|Seasonal forest ponds are unique habitats, and are the principal breeding habitat for some amphibians and invertebrates. An inventory of these habitats on the Quabbin Reservoir (Swift River) watershed (48,500 ha) in central Massachusetts identified and mapped 430 ponds. Two-thirds of the ponds (n = 286) were less than 0.05 ha in surface area and only 14 percent of the ponds (n = 60) were larger than 0.1 ha. The ponds were significantly clustered in spatial distribution. The surface area and spatial distribution of ponds suggest that they may exhibit attributes of biological islands. Pond-breeding fauna with limited dispersal abilities may occur as metapopulations. The actual effects of pond surface area and the spatial distribution of ponds on pond fauna have not been adequately studied. The ponds now occur in a predominantly forested landscape, but from 1750 until early in the 20th century, the landscape was largely agricultural with scattered woodlots or fragmented forests. The effects of land-use change on the composition, relative density, and reproductive success of pond fauna are unknown. The inventory was conducted to provide information to develop studies to investigate the effects of pond size, location, and forest history on pond fauna.
4499911|Freshwater mussels (Bivalvia: Unionidae) are sensitive to pollution of stream habitats. However, there has been no analysis of whether mussel density is correlated with measurements from commonly used rapid water assessment protocols. This study tested which water quality parameters are correlated with the density of freshwater mussels found in selected locations of the middle Allegheny River, PA. No correlation was found between mussel density and either temperature or chemical water quality parameters. However, there was a strong positive correlation between mussel density and the modified EPA physical habitat parameters tested. These results suggest that the physical habitat variables are a useful tool to assess the suitability of stream habitat for unionid mussels, and should help ecosystem managers make informed decisions about the maintenance or restoration of the ecosystem function that these mussels perform.
10.2307/3858669|Dendronotus frondosus (Ascanius 1774) is a common inhabitant of the intertidal zone of the lower Bay of Fundy. This nudibranch experiences great daily fluctuations in physical conditions that affect all aspects of its life cycle. We examined the effect of temperature (5, 11, and 15 C) on the development time of eggs of an intertidal population of this species. Eggs developed more slowly at 5 C than at 11 C and did not develop past the second polar body stage at 15 C. The effect of this difference in development time may be to compress the settlement period to span less time than the oviposition period.
10.2307/3858597|Since the mid 19th century, only eight records of hooded seals (Cystophora cristata) have been documented from the Bay of Fundy and northern Gulf of Maine. Between 1994 and 1998 thirty-one additional records have been reported, suggesting a recent and dramatic increase in this ice-breeding seal in the region.
40664877|Ondatra zibethicus (Muskrat) is one of the most widely distributed furbearers in eastern North America. Anecdotal evidence suggests that Muskrats are experiencing a regional decline in numbers, although little empirical evidence exists to support this claim. Our objectives were to document temporal trends in Muskrat harvest in eastern North America, and to use the relationship between harvest and pelt price to infer potential trends in regional Muskrat populations. Muskrat harvest has declined by approximately 75% since 1986 in eastern North America, despite a recent resurgence in pelt prices. Recent harvest rates showed little correlation (r = 0.355-0.559) with current or time-lagged pelt prices, despite large correlations (r = 0.785-0.823) between pelt price and harvest from historic data (1948-1968). These results suggest that, at low harvest levels, there is only a weak correlation between harvest and pelt price. These results may be indicative of regional declines in Muskrat abundance, although future research is needed to substantiate this hypothesis.
10.2307/3858669|Dendronotus frondosus (Ascanius 1774) is a common inhabitant of the intertidal zone of the lower Bay of Fundy. This nudibranch experiences great daily fluctuations in physical conditions that affect all aspects of its life cycle. We examined the effect of temperature (5, 11, and 15 C) on the development time of eggs of an intertidal population of this species. Eggs developed more slowly at 5 C than at 11 C and did not develop past the second polar body stage at 15 C. The effect of this difference in development time may be to compress the settlement period to span less time than the oviposition period.
10.2307/3858597|Since the mid 19th century, only eight records of hooded seals (Cystophora cristata) have been documented from the Bay of Fundy and northern Gulf of Maine. Between 1994 and 1998 thirty-one additional records have been reported, suggesting a recent and dramatic increase in this ice-breeding seal in the region.
40664877|Ondatra zibethicus (Muskrat) is one of the most widely distributed furbearers in eastern North America. Anecdotal evidence suggests that Muskrats are experiencing a regional decline in numbers, although little empirical evidence exists to support this claim. Our objectives were to document temporal trends in Muskrat harvest in eastern North America, and to use the relationship between harvest and pelt price to infer potential trends in regional Muskrat populations. Muskrat harvest has declined by approximately 75% since 1986 in eastern North America, despite a recent resurgence in pelt prices. Recent harvest rates showed little correlation (r = 0.355-0.559) with current or time-lagged pelt prices, despite large correlations (r = 0.785-0.823) between pelt price and harvest from historic data (1948-1968). These results suggest that, at low harvest levels, there is only a weak correlation between harvest and pelt price. These results may be indicative of regional declines in Muskrat abundance, although future research is needed to substantiate this hypothesis.
