10.2307/3536555|We studied a population of blunt-nosed leopard lizard (Gambelia sila) on the Elkhorn Plain, California from 1988-1991. Sufficient precipitation fell during the winters of 1987-1988 and 1990-1991 to produce abundant herbaceous ground cover the following springs. Winter rains in 1988-1989 produced low amounts of ground cover, and rains in 1989-1990 did not cause any appreciable number of annual plants to germinate. Counts of grasshoppers differed significantly between 1990 and 1991, with 10-60 times more grasshoppers counted in 1991 than 1990. In 1988, 1989, and 1991, adult leopard lizards, together with yearlings that hatched the preceding year, emerged from winter torpor in the spring and remained active through June. A few adults remained active into August, and in 1991 into September. In these same years, hatchlings appeared aboveground in August, and stayed active into September or October. However, in 1990, only yearling lizards were found active aboveground, and no reproduction occurred. Adult Gambelia sila have the ability to remain belowground > 21 mo during periods of low prey abundance.
10.2307/3536587|The diet of otters was studied over one season on the Mendocino National Forest in northern California. Undigested prey remains were analyzed from 94 otter scats collected between 18 April and 29 August 1982. Fish were found to be the predominant food, occurring in 89.4% of the scats with a mean volume estimate of 63%. Fishes consumed were primarily catostomids and salmonids. Crayfish and snakes were common prey items as well. Insects were often found in otter scats, but represented little volume. Bird, turtle, frog, and snail remains occasionally were found in the scats.
10.2307/3536847|During the final 3 hr of daylight on 6 February 1989, I recorded the behavior of an American robin, Turdus migratorius, foraging on fruits of the hawthorn, Crataegus monogyna in western Oregon, USA. Fruit intake increased (fewer picked fruits were rejected) as dusk approached and time before flying to roost decreased. Foraging bout length and foraging rate remained constant. The observed behavior may reflect the need for frugivores that are gut-process limited to store fuel (fruits) in an extendible esophagus before nightfall.
41811918|Bat mortality has been reported at industrial scale wind facilities across North America, with tree-roosting bats accounting for most fatalities, but no data exist for central Canada. We quantified rates of mortality at a wind energy facility in Manitoba, Canada by conducting standardized carcass searches corrected for searcher efficiency and scavenging from mid-August to mid-September 2007. We found that mortality was consistent with, but qualitatively higher than that at comparable wind facilities in western Canada. Mortality of the species most commonly killed, Silver-haired Bats, was evenly distributed across the wind facility, but mortality of Hoary and Eastern Red Bats was higher at some turbines than others.
10.2307/3536740|We discovered 2 marbled murrelet (Brachyramphus marmoratus) tree nests in West Walbran Valley on the west coast of Vancouver Island, British Columbia, by observing murrelet behavior during dawn surveys and climbing potential nest trees. Both nests were in old-growth Sitka spruce (Picea sitchensis) trees. They were unoccupied when found but each had distinct fecal rings and contained eggshell fragments, indicating that they had been used recently. These were the first marbled murrelet nests found in British Columbia and the first nests located in Sitka spruce trees within the murrelet's range in North America.
23259691|The breeding biology of the Black Oystercatcher (Haemotopus bachmani) was studied on Triangle Island, British Columbia, Canada in 20032011. Breeding density at this remote site was relatively high, ranging from 2.23 to 3.72 pairs/km of shoreline in the 9 y. Most clutches were initiated in the last 2 wk of May, and the annual mean 1st clutch size ranged from 2.1 to 2.8 eggs/nest, values similar to those recorded at other sites. Egg size differed little in clutches of 1, 2, and 3 eggs. Hatching success at Triangle Island ranged from 55 to 87% in 5 y, which is on the high end of the range compared to other sites. Limited data suggested that adult survival rates exceeded 90% per annum, and 43% of individuals banded just prior to fledging survived through at least their 1st winter. Oystercatchers are reliable indicators of the health of coastal ecosystems, and these data comprise a baseline against which future changes at Triangle Island can be assessed.
4501987|Terrestrial salamanders are integral components of forest ecosystems and the examination of their feeding habits may provide useful information regarding various ecosystem processes. We studied the diet of the Del Norte Salamander (Plethodon elongatus) and assessed diet differences between age classes, genders, and seasons. The stomachs of 309 subadult and adult salamanders, captured in spring and fall, contained 20 prey types. Nineteen were invertebrates, and one was a juvenile Del Norte Salamander, representing the first reported evidence of cannibalism in this species. Mites and ants represented a significant component of the diet across all age classes and genders, and diets of subadult and adult salamanders were fairly similar overall. We detected, however, an ontogenetic shift with termites and ants becoming less important and spiders and mites becoming more important with age. These differences between subadults and adults can likely be attributed to the inability of subadults to consume larger prey items due in part to gape limitation. The diet of the Del Norte Salamander, like other plethodontids, consists of a high diversity of prey items making it an opportunistic, sit-and-wait predator.
10.2307/3536893|A spruce beetle (Dendroctonus rufipennis) epidemic in southcentral Alaska has caused extensive mortality to spruce trees and a change in forest stand structure. Because a change in forest vegetation can influence composition and abundance of forest birds, we attempted to assess the type and magnitude of change in bird populations within 2 forest stands on the Kenai Peninsula that were undergoing differing levels of spruce beetle infestation. In addition, we compared bird populations occupying a salvage-logged forest site with those in the other forest stands. During our survey period (1994 to 1998), species composition and abundance of land birds differed across the sampled forest stands. Avian species diversity and richness was greatest in the early successional stage of the logged forest and least in the heavily infested forest stand where many spruce trees killed by the spruce beetle had fallen to the ground. As predicted, ground nesting and foraging bird species increased where trees had fallen or were removed. Conversely, the abundance of mature conifer forest birds, such as Townsend's warblers (Dendroica townsendi) and ruby-crowned kinglets (Regulus calendula) decreased in those forest stands that lost overstory structure. Townsend's warblers declined in abundance through time, potentially due to the loss of mature conifers for nest sites. Bird abundance was greater within the lightly infested stand in 1996, possibly due to immigration of birds from less suitable habitats. Because forest stand characteristics will continue to change through time following the spruce beetle epidemic, we suggest that songbird communities will also remain dynamic in response to changing habitats.
43286403|Fish assemblages on an Eelgrass (Zostera marina) bed located in Humboldt Bay, California were studied using an epibenthic otter trawl. Sampling was conducted on a monthly basis from 1994 to 1995, and 2003 through 2006. A total of 204 tows over 51 mo yielded 16,760 individual fish representing 20 families and 43 species. The catch was dominated by a few species, with 4 species comprising 74.3% of the total number of fish collected. Black Rockfish (Sebastes melanops) were the most abundant species taken, accounting for 22.5% of the total collected. Annual peaks in abundance and species richness were observed during the late spring and summer months, with smaller peaks noted in winter. Fish assemblages differed seasonally, with late spring and summer assemblages significantly different from other times of the year, due to recruitment of young-of-the-year life stages. Temporal patterns of community structure were also analyzed by decade and season, with no interaction among main effects. Seasonal and temporal patterns were analyzed using permutational multivariate analysis of variance and plotted using nonmetric multidimensional scaling. These results demonstrate the importance of Eelgrass habitats to juvenile fishes, and the value of data sets collected over various temporal scales.
10.2307/3536861|Knowledge of lynx (Lynx canadensis) use of burned areas is desirable to anticipate the effects of fire management in the taiga. During 1991 to 1994 we tested whether L. canadensis and snowshoe hares (Lepus americanus) selectively used post-fire seres during winter in the Alaskan taiga and whether selection could be explained by population trends and the concept of refugia for L. americanus. Forest seral stages included early-successional tall shrub-sapling (1985 burn), mid-successional dense tree (1966 burn), and mature coniferous (100 to 115 yr old). Track counts, pelt sealing records, and anecdotal observations indicated that numbers of L. canadensis and L. americanus declined during 1991 to 1994. Tracks of both species were most abundant in the 1966 burn, which was characterized by dense coniferous and deciduous regeneration. Lepus americanus and L. canadensis also had the highest preference for the 1966 burn, which is consistent with the prediction that refugia for L. americanus would also contain most of the L. canadensis during the decline phase of the hare cycle. Fire is the predominant disturbance in upland taiga, and mid-successional forest is clearly important to L. canadensis and L. americanus. However, stands of mature forest may be important to L. canadensis for denning and as a source of alternative prey during declines of L. americanus. Thus, conservative fire management to benefit L. canadensis in interior Alaska should ensure some stands of mature forest to fulfill their potential habitat needs.
40983226|The abundance of Band-tailed Pigeons (Patagioenas fasciata monilis) has declined substantially from historic numbers along the Pacific Coast. Identification of patterns and causative factors of this decline are hampered because habitat use data are limited, and temporal and spatial variability patterns associated with population indices are not known. Furthermore, counts are influenced not only by pigeon abundance but also by rate of visitation to mineral sites, which may not be consistent. To address these issues, we conducted mineral site counts during 2001 and 2002 at 20 locations from 4 regions in the Pacific Northwest, including central Oregon and western Washington, USA, and British Columbia, Canada. We developed inference models that consisted of environmental factors and spatial characteristics at multiple spatial scales. Based on information theory, we compared models within a final set that included variables measured at 3 spatial scales (0.03 ha, 3.14 ha, and 7850 ha). Pigeon counts increased from central Oregon through northern Oregon and decreased into British Columbia. After accounting for this spatial pattern, we found that pigeon counts increased 12%  2.7 with a 10% increase in the amount of deciduous forested area within 100 m from a mineral site. Also, distance from the mineral site of interest to the nearest known mineral site was positively related to pigeon counts. These findings provide direction for future research focusing on understanding the relationships between indices of relative abundance and complete counts (censuses) of pigeon populations by identifying habitat characteristics that might influence visitation rates. Furthermore, our results suggest that spatial arrangement of mineral sites influences Band-tailed Pigeon counts and the populations which those counts represent.
10.2307/3536483|Cover condition and its influence on nesting success, survival, and body condition of ring-necked pheasants (Phasianus colchicus) were evaluated at Tule Lake National Wildlife Refuge (TLNWR) and Lower Klamath National Wildlife Refuge (LKNWR). Inadequate nesting cover was responsible for extremely low nest success early in the nesting season at TLNWR. Later in the season at TLNWR, spring-planted crops provided cover to conceal nesting and renesting hens; however, only 0.07 young were produced (to 1 August) per hen during the study. The extremely low reproductive rates were well below those required to maintain a stable population. At TLNWR, most adult mortality during spring and early summer (before crops provided adequate cover) apparently resulted from predation by golden eagles (Aquila chrysaetos). This mortality occurred weeks before insecticide applications. Hard winters (cold temperatures and heavy snowfall) periodically reduce the pheasant population in the Klamath Basin and again greatly reduced numbers during the last year of this study. Unfortunately, pheasant populations declined under the conditions found during this study and were unable to recover from the hard winter of 1992 to 1993. Mean body mass and tarsal length of adult hen pheasants at TLNWR, which is intensively farmed, were less than those for hens at LKNWR, which is not intensively farmed. Results of our study suggest that TLNWR hens may have been nutritionally stressed, and that the amount and distribution of vegetative cover needs to be improved at TLNWR. Habitat management of edge cover along agricultural crops should feature perennial grasses and legumes with small tracts of land interspersed throughout the agricultural fields to provide alternative cover for wildlife in general including pheasants.
20628124|I used bat detectors to study the effects of a fuels-reduction silvicultural treatment in a forested area of northeastern Oregon where there were high numbers of standing and down dead trees. Data were collected in 3 control and 6 treatment units over a 4-wk period in mid-summer for 3 y prior to treatment in 2002 and for 4 y after treatment. Treatment significantly reduced number and basal area of tree stems and canopy layers. Bat species were divided into clutter-intolerant, clutter-tolerant, and clutter-neutral species groups based on morphologic and echolocation call characteristics. The proportion of each group's activity did not differ between control and treatment units prior to treatment and for control units pre- and post-treatment. However, the proportion of activity of clutter-intolerant species was greater in treatment units after treatment compared to treatment units prior to treatment and to control units after treatment. The opposite result occurred for the clutter-tolerant species group. No significant changes were observed for the clutter-neutral group. There was no change in overall bat activity after treatment. I attributed changes in activity among the groups primarily to the reduction of clutter, but at least some of the change may have been an indirect effect of the treatment on the availability of prey or roost sites.
30131046|The Pacific Sand Lance (Ammodytes hexapterus) is an important Pacific Northwest prey species for marine predators. In our study along the West Coast Trail, southwestern Vancouver Island, British Columbia, we examined shallow subtidal habitat selection of juvenile and adult Sand Lance with respect to sediment characteristics, and also examined aggregation behavior. Analysis of presence or absence using a classification tree showed that Sand Lance avoided sites with no subtidal sediments, preferred sites with mean sediment particle sizes
4095777|During 1999 and 2000,10 of the 13 high-elevation lakes in and near the Red Buttes Wilderness in the Siskiyou Mountains were surveyed for amphibians. Five of the lakes had been stocked with non-native brook trout (Salvelinus fontinalis) for over 30 y, while fish were absent from the other 5 lakes. Pacific treefrog (Pseudacris regilla) larvae were observed in 40% of fish-bearing lakes and 80% of fishless lakes, rough-skinned newts (Taricha granulosa granulosa) were present in all study lakes, and coastal giant salamanders (Dicamptodon tenebrosus) were present in 40% of fish-bearing lakes. Pacific treefrog larvae were significantly more abundant in fishless lakes, while rough-skinned newt median abundances were identical between fish-bearing and fishless lakes. Differences in Pacific treefrog abundances and distribution between fish-bearing and fishless lakes were likely related to the presence of brook trout, but might also have been influenced by other factors such as lake morphometry and abundance of aquatic vegetation. Modifying the number or type of fish stocked in the Red Buttes Wilderness could reduce effects from fish stocking on Pacific treefrog populations.
43286672|The family Cryptacanthodidae comprises 4 species: 3 in the North Pacific Ocean and 1 in the western North Atlantic Ocean. Two species in particular, Cryptacanthodes aleutensis and C. giganteus, occur sympatrically in the eastern North Pacific from the Bering Sea to off the coast of northern California. Both species have neustonic larvae with elongate bodies and heavy pigmentation. Descriptions and illustrations of larvae for both species are provided. Meristic and pigmentation characters can be used to distinguish between the species, with C. giganteus having higher total vertebral and dorsal-fin spine counts and less overall pigmentation than C. aleutensis. Comparisons are also provided to distinguish both species from other elongate, heavily pigmented neustonic larvae that co-occur in the eastern North Pacific Ocean. In general, cryptacanthodids can be distinguished from other neustonic larvae because they have a higher total vertebral count, a long dorsal fin composed solely of spines, and an absence of pelvic fins.
10.2307/3536820|Columbian sharp-tailed grouse (Tympanuchus phasianellus columbianus) were historically found in shrub-steppe, meadow-steppe, steppe, and deciduous shrub communities throughout much of eastern Washington. The current range, consisting of 8 relatively small, isolated populations, is <3% of historic range. Information collected since 1954 indicates 58% of 107 known lek complexes are currently vacant. Many of the vacant lek complexes (53%) are in areas where sharp-tailed grouse have been extirpated since 1954. Based on annual changes in number of birds counted on lek complexes, the number of sharp-tailed grouse in Washington declined by about 92% since 1954 to 858 birds in 1998. Historic and recent declines of sharp-tailed grouse appear linked to dramatic declines in quantity and quality of native habitat.
4501986|Ecologists and wildlife managers often rely on habitat classifications that are based on existing resource inventories and expert opinion. In the Tongass National Forest of southeastern Alaska, as in many managed ecosystems, forest types are defined primarily on the basis of structural characteristics, like tree stocking, size, and composition. While useful in management for timber production, this method of identifying forest types produces a classification with limited relevance to wildlife management. Sitka Black-tailed Deer (Odocoileus hemionus sitkensis) are an important component of the ecology and economy of this region. We classified forests by applying cluster analysis to a suite of 12 environmental variables of ecological importance to deer, sampled on a
10.2307/3536752|Radio telemetry, banding, and genetic studies of marbled murrelet (Brachyramphus marmoratus) populations depend on the ability of researchers to catch adequate samples of birds. We present 2 methods of catching murrelets using arrays of mist-nets set over water. One method, which is suitable for use in shallow (< 30 m), sheltered water, is light and easily portable. The other method allows nets to be anchored in water  500 m deep and is able to withstand strong winds, currents, and large tidal differences. Using these methods in 1991-1994, we captured 314 marbled murrelets in British Columbia and south central Alaska.
3536872|The Tongass National Forest encompasses a large expanse of temperate rainforest in southeastern Alaska and contains 12 designated Research Natural Areas (RNAs). Existing in as near a natural condition as possible, RNAs receive minimal commercial and recreational use. Because few bird studies have been conducted on RNAs, we used point counts and area searches to determine the occurrence and abundance of breeding landbirds present in vegetation communities of RNAs. Of 49 species of small landbirds detected during area searches, the most widely distributed birds among RNAs were rufous hummingbird (Selasphorus rufa), chestnut-backed chickadee (Poecile rufescens), winter wren (Troglodytes troglodytes), golden-crowned kinglet (Regulus satrapa), Swainson's thrush (Catharus ustulatus), hermit thrush (C. guttatus), varied thrush (Ixoreus naevius), and Townsend's warbler (Dendroica townsendi). The 8 most abundant species recorded on 187 point counts (>0.5 birds/point) were Pacific-slope flycatcher (Empidonax difficilis), hermit thrush, varied thrush, winter wren, golden-crowned kinglet, Townsend's warbler, and chestnut-backed chickadee. Several species had significant differences in abundance between low- elevation hemlock-spruce forest and their abundance in either high- elevation fir-spruce forest or mixed conifer-shore pine muskeg. Because RNAs provide forests that are not disturbed by human activities, these sites could provide a standard to evaluate changes in bird abundance and richness that may occur on developed land in southeastern Alaska.
41300899|The Cougar (Puma concolor) is an apex predator whose occurrence and space-use patterns are closely tied to the abundance and vulnerability of ungulate prey. Deer (Odocoileus spp.) and Elk (Cervus elaphus) readily use residential portions of the landscape, but little is known of Cougar prey use within these environments. We used Global Positioning System and VHF relocation data from 20 Cougars to examine prey use in a wildland-urban landscape in western Washington. We tested for differences ( = 0.10) between wildland and residential prey compositions using the Chi-square test of homogeneity and used an ANOVA fixed-effects model to determine the potential influence of residential development on the duration of Cougar presence on kills. We located 304 kills throughout the study area with Black-tailed Deer (Odocoileus hemionus columbianus, 55.3%), Beaver (Castor canadensis, 22.0%), and Elk (8.8%) constituting the bulk of Cougar diet. Wildland and residential prey compositions were significantly different, with Cougars killing a higher proportion of Deer, Beavers, and Mountain Beavers (Aplodontia rufa) in wildland areas and more Coyotes (Canis latrans), Raccoons (Procyon lotor), Opossums (Didelphis virginiana), and domestic species close to residential development. Kill location did not have a significant effect on the duration of stay regardless of species killed, nor was the effect of location significant when comparing kills of the same species. Cougar diet in wildland-urban forests of western Washington is diverse, but Cougars do not appear to shift their space-use patterns to take advantage of non-ungulate prey close to residential development. However, long-term management of Cougars in wildland-urban environments may require an examination of ungulate presence in residential environments to ensure that these populations do not encourage Cougar presence in habitats close to people.
41300878|High nest predation rates are one of the main sources of nesting failure in passerines. Mountain meadows in the Sierra Nevada have been intensively modified, reducing meadow wetness and potentially favoring easy access for mammalian predators to reach nesting areas in the meadow interior. We conducted mammal trapping in wet and dry areas of montane meadows during May through August of 2007 and 2008 to identify the assemblage of potential mammalian nest predators and determine the relationship between activity and meadow wetness. Chipmunk (Tamias spp.) activity was primarily restricted to dry areas. Activity of Yellow-pine Chipmunks (Tamias amoenus) was >90% higher in dry versus wet areas. Deer Mice (Peromyscus maniculatus) were equally active in both site types in 2007, but declined and were only captured in wet areas in 2008. Overall activity was higher in 2007 and 2008 for both wet and dry areas (68% and 52%, respectively). Our results suggest that increasing the proportion of inundated areas in meadows may reduce small mammal activity (for instance Yellow-pine Chipmunks) and potentially reduce nest prdation.
10.2307/3536930|Landscape scale macrohabitat variables associated with amphibian communities were addressed in a private industrial forest in Washington. A GIS (Geographic Information System) analysis including 8 macrohabitat types was conducted within a 200-m radius around the center of survey sites. Multiple regression analysis was conducted to examine macrohabitat area associations for each species. Amphibians were sampled in 50 stream reaches, 29 wetlands, and 8 talus slopes (uplands) over a 3-yr period (1994 to 1996). A total of 14 species of amphibians was detected, which represents the full complement of species known to occur in the region. Regression models produced for 11 species included associations with the following habitat types (number of species): mature conifer (5), pole conifer (4), sapling conifer (4), recent clearcuts (4), alder-hardwoods (2), brush (0), rock (2), and open wetland (5). Results suggest that stream and riparian amphibians require closed-canopy forest cover from mature conifers, pole conifers, and / or alder-hardwoods. In contrast, pond-breeding amphibians were not restricted to areas with a closed canopy, at least during the breeding season.
20628108|Temperate eelgrass beds are temporally and spatially complex habitats that often provide a transition habitat for many species of juvenile fishes. The feeding habits of young-of-the-year Black Rockfish (Sebastes melanops) and Copper Rockfish (S. caurinus) inhabiting eelgrass (Zostera marina) beds in Humboldt Bay, California, were assessed in 2003 and 2004. A total of 16 prey types were noted for both species. Gammarid amphipods and copepods were the dominant prey types. Shifts in prey type were observed for Copper Rockfish as prey preference shifted from smaller planktonic prey to larger epiphytic prey types over time. No shifts in prey type were noted for Black Rockfish. Prey types for both species were consistent with previous studies conducted in temperate eelgrass habitats, which noted the importance of small crustaceans as prey.
10.2307/3536656|We surveyed diurnal landbirds in managed and unmanaged stands of coast redwood (Sequoia sempervirens) forests in Humboldt County, California, during the breeding season of 1995. We divided stands into 5 age classes: old-growth and 5 to 9, 10 to 20, 21 to 60, 61 to 80 yr since clearcut harvest. A total of 25 stands were surveyed twice with 4 survey points in each. Younger stands (20 yr old) were shrub-dominated; 21 to 60 yr-old stands were dominated by pole-size trees and differed structurally from older stands. Shrub-dominated stands had significantly higher relative abundance and slightly higher species richness compared to the other stands. Cavity-nesting and bark-foraging species were detected more in the 2 oldest age classes, while ground-nesting and shrub-nesting species and shrub-foraging species were detected more in younger stands. Canopy foragers were least represented in the pole-size stands. Long-distance migrants were detected significantly less in the 21- to 60-yr-old stands than other 2nd-growth stands. Eleven of 46 landbird species detected were analyzed individually. None of the species were found exclusively in old growth and no significant differences were found between old growth and mature age classes. Although no species were exclusively associated with a particular age class, species composition changed substantially from young, shrub-dominated stands to older mature stands and old-growth stands.
10.2307/3536800|Selenium, cadmium, mercury, copper, manganese, zinc, aluminum, lead, PCBs and DDE were accumulated by segments of the surf scoter (Melanitta perspicillata) population that winters in the Pacific Northwest, but whether the uptake occurred on breeding and/or wintering grounds was uncertain for some contaminants. Surf scoters collected in Puget Sound and San Francisco Bay (in another study) during the same period (January 1985) contained similar concentrations of cadmium, but Alsea Bay scoters contained more. Cadmium was inversely related to both liver and body weights of Northwest scoters in January; similar weight losses were reported in experimental laboratory studies. Northwest and north San Francisco Bay scoters contained similar mercury concentrations, but those in south San Francisco Bay contained higher concentrations. San Francisco Bay scoters contained higher arsenic and selenium concentrations than those in the Northwest; however, the 43.4 ppm (geometric mean, dry wt) selenium in livers at Commencement Bay in January was above levels associated with the reproductive problems in aquatic birds at Kesterson National Wildlife Refuge. Even higher concentrations of some elements may be found in surf scoters in March, because a later collection (March) at San Francisco Bay yielded higher concentrations than found there in January. Trace element concentrations in birds at a given wintering location are variable among species and may be influenced by diet, breeding grounds, and physiology (e.g., at Commencement Bay surf scoters with a sediment-associated diet contained 50X more cadmium in their kidneys than did fish-eating western grebes [Aechmophorus occidentalis]). The numerous wildlife species that live on estuaries require further attention.
10.2307/3536821|Sage grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) historically occurred in shrub-steppe and meadow-steppe communities throughout much of eastern Washington. The decline in distribution has been dramatic; 73% of 67 lek complexes documented since 1960 are currently vacant. Many vacant lek complexes (53%) are in areas where sage grouse have been recently extirpated. The current range is about 8% of the historic range, occurring in 2 relatively isolated areas. Based on changes in number of males counted on lek complexes, the sage grouse population size in Washington declined at least 77% from 1960 to 1999; the 1999 spring population was estimated to be about 1,100 birds. Historic and recent declines of sage grouse are linked to conversion of native habitat for production of crops and degradation of the remaining native habitat. Although declines in populations of sage grouse appear to be slowing, the small size and isolated nature of the 2 remaining populations may be a long-term problem. Management should be directed toward protecting, enhancing, expanding, and connecting the existing populations.
23259628|The Bigmouth Sculpin, Hemitripterus bolini, is a cottoid fish in the family Hemitripteridae found throughout the Bering Sea and Gulf of Alaska to British Columbia, Canada, and northern California. Hemitripterids have internal gametic association with external fertilization as their mode of reproduction. With this strategy, spermatozoa are stored in the micropyle of eggs within the ovary after gamete transfer to the female and eggs are not fertilized until immersed in seawater. Female H. bolini deposit their eggs into at least 4 species of sponges. We collected eggs from Barrel Sponge (Halichondria lambei), Clay-Pipe Sponge (Aphrocallistes vastus), Boot Sponge (Acanthascus dawsoni), and Tree Sponge (Mycale loveni) in the Gulf of Alaska and Bering Sea. In contrast to its congeners, there has been little research on H. bolini particularly any focusing on aspects of early life history stages. In this study, we describe the development of H. bolini eggs and larvae from newly-hatched stages to juveniles, and include general observations of osteology. The descriptions of larvae and juveniles are based on examination of 32 specimens, 5 of which were differentially cleared and stained to examine osteological development. Larvae hatch at a large size (13 to 14 mm SL) in an advanced stage of development. Postflexion occurs at approximately 20 mm SL, and transformation to the juvenile stage begins at about 31 mm SL. Larvae are heavily pigmented through late flexion, when pigmentation becomes reduced. Postflexion larvae and juveniles are also heavily pigmented. Ossification of most skeletal elements does not occur until postflexion. The description will help distinguish H. bolini from other hemitripterids and sympatric larvae of the family Agonidae that are similar in appearance but generally smaller and more slender-bodied at all developmental stages. The behavior of egg deposition in sponges, in conjunction with the use of sponges by other fishes such as juvenile rockfish and invertebrates such as Golden King Crabs (Lithodes aequispina) as refuge habitat, suggests that sponge grounds may provide essential fish habitat for H. bolini and other species.
10.2307/3536895|From 8 February to 8 June 1995, we investigated aspects of the foraging behavior of northwestern crows (Corvus caurinus) in the intertidal zone relative to various tide heights and invertebrate availability along an urban beach in Seattle, Washington. We directly sampled the density and diversity of invertebrates in the upper, middle, and lower littoral zones to assess their distribution. We recorded the number of steps taken and amount of time spent foraging by crows by tidal zone and tide direction. Worms, crabs, and snails were expected to be exposed to predation at lower tide heights, and some species of worms were only found at low tides (<0.36 m). There was no significant difference in the number of bivalves found in relationship to tide height. Among the crows observed, the number of steps and search times were greater during rising than falling tides, but the number of probes was not significantly different between tide directions. In addition, the number of steps between probes and the amount of time between probes decreased during rising tides. The number of crows foraging in the intertidal zone did not appear to be related to tide height. Results of this study suggest that tidal zone and direction influences prey availability and thus certain aspects of the foraging behavior of northwestern crows.
10.2307/3536811|Individuals of several amphibian and reptile species have been introduced into Colorado or translocated to new localities within the state. While most of these species have little likelihood of establishing populations, some species have the potential to become established. The bullfrog (Rana catesbeiana) is a non-native species with established populations in Colorado. Purposeful translocations of this species began in the early 1900s into the South Platte River drainage; since this time bullfrogs have been reported from 30 of Colorado's 63 counties.
4501963|We sampled terrestrial salamanders in riparian and upland areas within a 40-y-old managed forest site in western Oregon. We found 303 ensatinas (
10.2307/3536719|Between 1993 and 2001, 88 surveys were conducted at 31 historical sites of the northern leopard frog (Rana pipiens) in western Montana. Surveys were either a combination of visual encounter and dipnetting or were night-time audio surveys. No R. pipiens were found at any sites. A total of 1324 non-historical sites were surveyed at least once during the same time period, about half of which were considered suitable for R. pipiens. Rana pipiens was found at 2 locations whereas the Columbia spotted frog (Rana luteiventris) was found at 497 locations. The 2 R. pipiens sightings represent the only extant populations known to occur west of the Continental Divide in Montana.
10.2307/3536791|Shorebirds migrating at American Falls Reservoir, Snake River, Idaho, were counted in fall from 1986 to 1988 to determine their habitat use and the influence of water level changes. Reservoir water levels changed within and between seasons, sometimes changing the habitat type at specific sites. Shorebirds concentrated on mudflats, whereas sandy, clay, and boulder beaches, and bedrock supported very low numbers of individuals and species. Shorebirds were excluded from some important mudflats in early migration in 1986 because of flooding by high water, and densities drastically dropped after a rise in water flooded some mudflats later in the season. Shorebird numbers were correlated with water drawdown in 1986. There were equal or higher numbers of shorebirds at the large mudflat site in 1987 and 1988 when water drawdown caused the shoreline to recede 15,000 to 20,000 m versus 1986 when the shoreline receded 3200 m. This study shows that man-made reservoirs can provide important staging areas for migrating shorebirds. Mudflats should be made available on reservoirs in the intermountain western United States from late June through October.
3536471|Population demographics of marbled murrelets (Brachyramphus marmoratus) are difficult to measure. Population size can be estimated from at-sea densities, and productivity indices are sometimes derived from ratios of hatch-year to after-hatch-year birds observed during systematic surveys on the ocean. However, one cannot determine from marine surveys alone what proportion of a marbled murrelet population sampled at sea is nesting in any given year, which would allow a more meaningful interpretation of productivity ratios. We hypothesized that group size (the number of murrelets occurring together on the water) could provide such an index if it could be demonstrated that single murrelets detected on the ocean during the incubation phase of the breeding season represent breeding birds. We monitored radio-tagged murrelets in Desolation Sound, British Columbia, from 29 May through 19 June 2001, using an incubating pair's distinct 24-h on-off occurrence on the water to determine nesting status. Of 160 murrelet groups comprised of at least 1 individual of known nesting status, there was a significantly greater percentage (37%) of single birds among incubating murrelets than among non-incubating birds (20%). Annual variation in the proportion of single murrelets recorded on marine surveys in Puget Sound during peak incubation corresponded with the annual productivity index in 4 of 5 y from 1997 to 2001. Our results suggest that group size, especially the proportion of single-bird groups, may help assess the proportion of murrelets that are nesting. Multiple-year comparisons of group size with nesting rates are needed to validate and interpret these results, and we need to continue to explore new methods to measure murrelet productivity.
10.2307/3536897|Recent concern about amphibian declines has created a need for practical and effective sampling methods that will allow biologists to monitor populations. Aquatic funnel traps may provide an effective means to sample and monitor lentic, breeding adult salamander populations. However, before funnel traps can be used to assess population trends, the relationship between capture rate and population density and the catchability of individuals within populations should both be examined. Using artificial ponds, we conducted 2 experiments that showed that the capture rates of aquatic funnel traps are representative of an adult population of Taricha granulosa and that gravid females in traps influence observed capture rates. These findings are important to biologists who may wish to reconsider their design of sampling regimes and interpretation of field data.
30136800|We tried using morphometrics to determine sex for a population of Common Ravens (Corvus corax) in northwestern Wyoming. We attempted to correlate 13 external measurements to sex using discriminant function analyses. Sex was verified with a DNA test that identified females with 2 PCR-amplified gene copies (1 each from the W and Z chromosomes) and males with 1 gene copy (only Z chromosome). We created a predictive model of sex of ravens for easy field use. We found that by using 2 separate discriminant functions with footpad length and body mass measurements simultaneously, we were able to correctly classify 97% of female samples, 91% of male samples, and had an unknown category that included 15% of samples.
30136795|The Northwest Forest Plan is a large-scale ecosystem management plan that establishes a system of federal reserves interspersed with matrix forestlands where timber and other commodity production are given priority. Generally, management on reserved lands attempts to protect species associated with older forests. Whereas management in matrix lands emphasizes timber production, it maintains some protections for species associated with older forests. We conducted surveys at randomly selected points within the range of the Scott Bar Salamander (Plethodon asupak) and the southern portion of the range of the Siskiyou Mountains Salamander (P stormi). We conducted surveys on both reserved and matrix lands to assess the relative role that these allocations play in the long-term persistence of Plethodon salamanders in this region. At low elevations (<1219 m), the proportion of sample points with captures of Plethodon spp. was significantly higher in matrix lands than on reserved lands. However, the number of Plethodon spp. captured at matrix and reserved land points was similar. Matrix land mitigations may be essential to provide protection for salamanders with small ranges and limited dispersal abilities. Oregon Ensatina (Ensatina eschscholtzii), the 2nd most commonly encountered amphibian, was more evenly distributed across the landscape than Plethodon spp. and was not associated with either reserved nor matrix lands.
23259689|In an ongoing 15-y study concerning population dynamics of Barred Owls (Strix varia) on Bainbridge Island, Kitsap County, Washington, I documented a steep decline in the Western Screech-Owl (Megascops kennicottii) population and a steady increase in the Barred Owl population. From 1995 through 2010, I conducted 358 auditory playback surveys that showed both changes in abundance and spatial distribution of both species on the island. Statewide Christmas Bird Count data from the same time period also reflect an overall decline in the Western Screech-Owl population and an increase in the Barred Owl population. Further, at least 2 other studies have shown Western Screech-Owl to be prey for Barred Owl, also contributing to the body of evidence that leads to a possible correlation between the increasing number of Barred Owls and the decline of Western Screech-Owls.
4095758|Invasive alien species have long been recognized as a leading threat to biological diversity, contributing to the decline of nearly half of the imperiled species in the United States for which threat information is available. This paper discusses some of the invasive species that threaten imperiled wildlife in the western United States, including endemic birds in San Francisco Bay, sage grouse, and grizzly bears. I present 3 examples of the difficulties inherent in balancing the need to close pathways of invasive species entry with maintaining active international and interstate trade (wood packing materials, ballast water, and the nursery trade) and I present Defenders of Wildlife's policy recommendations in these areas.
23259630|We used avian point-count data collected from 4030 survey stations at Mount Rainier National Park, North Cascades National Park Complex, and Olympic National Park between 2001 and 2004 to describe observed elevation ranges of 74 bird species in the parks. Detailed elevation range information based on systematic sampling is essential for monitoring the effects of climate change on taxa whose ranges are likely to shift. Existing characterizations of the elevation ranges of Pacific Northwest birds are based primarily on anecdotal observations and professional opinion rather than systematic surveys. Here we analyze a systematically collected data set to describe the elevation ranges of common bird species in 3 large wilderness parks in Washington. These descriptions will facilitate future assessments of shifts in elevation ranges. More immediately, they will provide managers of more intensively managed lands outside the parks with reference information about elevational distributions of bird species from more-pristine park ecosystems.
3536756|By measuring the falling angle of 888 trees of a variety of sizes cut near 8 different dams in southwestern Saskatchewan, we tested the hypothesis that beavers (Castor canadensis) fell trees in a non-random direction. We predicted that trees would be preferentially felled towards the dam to minimize the costs of transporting materials to the dam and to minimize the amount of time beavers spend on land. We established a 150 m wide  250 m long transect at each dam and determined the felling angle of at least 100 aspen trees cut in each transect. We found that trees were felled by beavers with a mean felling angle of 357.9, a direction not significantly different from that of the dam. In all, 62% of trees were felled within 45 of the direction of the dam. While our data are consistent with the hypothesis, an experimental test is required to establish the reason(s) for the pattern we found.
23259685|Protection Island, Washington, is one of the most important nesting sites for Glaucous-winged Gulls (Larus glaucescens) in the Puget Sound area. Changes in the numbers and distribution of nests in a Glaucous-winged Gull colony on Violet Point, Protection Island, were tracked from 1980 to 2010. The colony grew steadily until the early 1990s, then declined to about half its former level. The main nesting sites also shifted from the relatively vegetated central and eastern portions of the point to the sparsely vegetated land near the marina, which had previously been almost completely unused for nesting. This shift was correlated with steady expansion of tall grasses on the central and eastern point. The expansion of the tall grass appears to be displacing the gulls, which is an unusual situation. Further, in the early years of this study the edges of the tall grass areas were prime nesting habitats, but these locations were mostly avoided by 2010. We suggest that predation by Bald Eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) may also be affecting the numbers and locations of gull nests and may be the prime reason that few gulls now nest in the edges of the tall grass areas. Together, the tall grass and eagle predation appear to be carrying out a pincer movement which may be forcing the gulls into suboptimal nesting habitat and driving the decline of the gull colony.
23259629|The basic ecology of torrent salamanders, family Rhyacotritonidae, is poorly known. This information lack is acute for the Columbia Torrent Salamander, Rhyacotriton kezeri, a species that is of conservation concern throughout its range. There have been no studies of its diet, which may be a significant barrier to its conservation and management. We studied the diet of both larval and post-metamorphic Columbia Torrent Salamanders in the Willapa Hills, Washington. A wide range of aquatic and terrestrial prey was documented, supporting both aquatic and terrestrial prey bases for this highly aquatic salamander. Copepoda and Diptera were particularly common in the diet of larvae, whereas Arachnida, Diptera, Collembola, and Coleoptera were more common in the diet of post-metamorphs. Our results for post-metamorphs were generally consistent with the diet of a post-metamorphic congener, R. variegatus, but demonstrate several new prey items for the family and some differences in frequencies of prey consumed.
10.2307/3536701|I observed 1 presumed mallard (Anas platyrhynchos)  gadwall (A. strepera) male in 1990 and another in 1992 while censusing waterbirds in Eckman Lake and Alsea Bay, Oregon. Each bird exhibited some distinct features of each presumed parent, features blending those of mallard and gadwall, and features characteristic of neither presumed parent. The 1990 bird resembled a late eclipse male mallard, and the 1992 bird resembled a breeding male gadwall. Detailed descriptions of hybrid waterfowl are useful in studying taxonomy and behavior, but few are available.
10.2307/3536884|The eastern short-horned lizard, Phrynosoma douglassii brevirostre, reaches the northern limit of its geographical range in southeastern Alberta. Populations in this area are found in the drainage basins of the South Saskatchewan River, Pakowki Lake and Milk River. The vegetation of the area is typical short-grass prairie. Populations are confined to south-facing slopes, badland-grassland ecotones and Bearpaw shale outcrops. The range is within the dry steppe climatic region, having short, hot summers and high insolation. The active season of the lizards is from late April-early May until early September. Geologic and vegetative factors appear to account for the presence of P. d. brevirostre at high latitudes.
43286424|Standardized sight-resight data of Humpback Whales (Megaptera novaeangliae) in Glacier Bay and Icy Strait, Alaska, have been collected since 1985. We applied closed robust design capture-recapture models to these data to provide inferences about: (1) population size; (2) population growth rate; (3) apparent survival rate; and (4) temporary emigration rate in the region during 1985-2009, while accounting for imperfect detection probability. Population size estimates ranged from a low of 49.8 (95% CI: 44.3-64.4) in 1986 to a high of 181.1 (95% CI: 173.5-196.2) in 2009, and the geometric mean of year-to-year changes in abundance suggested a rate of population growth over the 25-y period of about 4.4%/y. We estimated the annual survival rate to be 0.948 (95% CI: 0.936-0.957). We estimated the probability of temporarily emigrating from the study area to be 0.106 (95% CI: 0.086-0.128), and the probability of a temporary emigrant remaining outside the study area as 0.777 (95% CI: 0.712-0.830). Our results provide new insights into the status and dynamics of this endangered species in and around a large marine protected area and highlight the value of intensive long-term population monitoring efforts.
43286426|We collated between 22 and 26 observations of family groups of Ancient Murrelets (Synthliboramphus antiquus) between 11 June and 31 July 1949-2009, off northern Vancouver Island, British Columbia, 110-350 km south of the nearest colony and up to 115 km offshore. These occurrences are consistent with a relatively short, southern, nearshore extension of normal clockwise movements of groups in regular at-sea rearing areas in southern Hecate Strait and northern Queen Charlotte Sound. Movements may be facilitated in some years by intensification of the relatively weak, residual currents (approximately 0.10 m/s) or by intensification of the moderately strong northwesterly winds in early summer. Two nests reported at Triangle Island off northern Vancouver Island in 1949 may have involved isolated pairs or a small remnant population, as breeding has not been reported since, or on surveys of colonies in June-July elsewhere on the northern coasts of Vancouver Island, from 1954 to 1988. These surveys, however, were too late for optimal detection of active nests of Ancient Murrelets, but no other signs of breeding were found. Surveys of potential habitat are required to confirm the lack of current breeding.
10.2307/3536565|A morphometric analysis of populations of Sorex cinereus and Sorex haydeni in Montana and neighboring states supports the species level distinction proposed in 1980. A comparison with populations in the Prairie Provinces of Canada suggests the presence of a clinal gradient of decreasing size from north to south for Sorex cinereus, while none was apparent for Sorex haydeni.
10.2307/3536687|California sea lions (Zalophus californianus) experience periodic outbreaks of the bacterial disease leptospirosis causing death and debilitation. In fall 1984, an outbreak of presumed leptospirosis occurred during the northward migration of male California sea lions. The assumption that Leptospira bacterium was present was strengthened by positive serology and demonstration of organisms using silver staining techniques in the kidneys of three animals from Oregon. Systematic beach surveys and reports of dead and debilitated sea lions on beaches were used to estimate the mortality of Zalophus during their northward migration off Oregon. From August 1984 to February 1985, 252 male Zalophus ranging in age from 2 to 13 years were found dead on the beaches of Oregon. The number of animals found dead represent approximately 15% of the total animals seen on haul-out sites during peak northern migration off Oregon.
10.2307/3536813|We examined the distribution and abundance of the short-horned lizard Phrynosoma hernandezi in Grasslands National Park, Saskatchewan, Canada. Historical records and anecdotal observations were compiled, and new surveys were conducted in 1995 and 1996. A total of 41 individuals, mostly young-of-the-year, were captured in the West Block of the Park in these years. The habitat used by lizards here was juniper dune terrain similar to that inhabited by the species in Alberta. Distribution in the West Block appeared to be restricted to the Frenchman River Valley. Twelve adult and subadult lizards were captured in the East Block of the Park in 1995 and 1996, mostly on gentle slopes in the lower reaches of Rock Creek Coulee within 4 km of the 49th parallel. The habitat in the East Block is mixed-grass prairie. Voucher specimens in collections, literature records and anecdotal accounts of this species in Saskatchewan almost all originate within the areas examined in this study, indicative of a restricted range in Saskatchewan.
10.2307/3536830|We compared the density and species richness of birds with the wildlife habitats found on four golf courses in the lower Fraser Valley region of British Columbia. From November 1990 to July 1991, 82 species of birds were observed during 120 bird counts. Twenty-nine species were considered to belong to the community of birds likely to be found on golf courses. Five species: the mallard (Anas platyrhynchos), northwestern crow (Corvus caurinus), black-capped chickadee (Parus atricapillus), American robin (Turdus migratorius) and European starling (Sturnus vulgaris) were considered common. Bird density was greatest on ponds and waterways. Species richness was highest in hedgerows and wooded areas where foliage and vegetation at ground level had not been removed. Turf surfaces had the lowest density of birds and were the lowest in species richness.
3536474|We evaluated marking and radiotelemetry techniques of Oregon spotted frogs (Rana pretiosa) from October, 1996, through December, 2000, at Dempsey Creek, Thurston County, Washington. Knee tags (plastic, numerically-coded fingerling tags tied at the knee) and PIT tags (passive integrated transponders) were used to uniquely identify individuals. Transmitters weighting 1 to 1.8 g were attached to frogs using 5-mm wide nylon ribbon belts threaded through a tube at the anterior end of the transmitter. Four knee-tagged frogs exhibited skin and muscle lacerations and the technique was abandoned early in the study. PIT tags were expensive but proved to be convenient and reliable. The nylon ribbon transmitter attachment, applied 94 times, allowed us to monitor individual frogs for an average of 57 d but sometimes caused skin abrasions and had a 34% loss rate. We suggest ways to improve transmitter retention and prevent harm to frogs.
20628127|Distribution of the Oregon Spotted Frog (Rana pretiosa) has shrunk markedly, and more than two-thirds of known populations are located along the Cascade Range in central Oregon. Despite conservation concern, little is known about how habitat attributes and stressors such as invasive species influence R. pretiosa populations. We used egg mass counts to study R. pretiosa habitat relationships at oviposition sites and breeding ponds. Oviposition sites were in shallow water above gradually sloping substrates that supported moderate or dense herbaceous vegetation. Sixty-one per cent of occupied breeding ponds had fewer than 20 egg masses. We found strong support for 2 predictors of egg mass count: positive effect of other R. pretiosa breeding sites nearby, and a negative effect of non-native fish having access to preferred R. pretiosa overwintering habitat. We found moderate support for effects of emergent and submergent vegetation coverage (positive), and of ponds being located in the Klamath River Basin (negative). Maintaining and restoring overwintering habitats that are free of non-native game fish is likely to benefit R. pretiosa in our study area. Further work on movement ecology is needed to improve our understanding of habitat connectivity and the effects of site isolation on the persistence of R. pretiosa in Oregon.
20628107|Populations of the Water Vole (Microtus richardsoni) occur along headwater streamlets at timberline in the Rocky Mountain front ranges of Alberta. At the 2000-m contour riparian distances between potential habitat patches ranged from 749 to 24,651 m, whereas overland distances ranged from 157 to 5104 m. Reproduction is restricted to a snow-free (May-August) period of 60 to 112 d in which females typically produce 1 to 2 litters of 2 to 10 young. Based on home range overlaps, the mating system appears to be polygynous. Over 4 habitat patches and 9 patch-seasons, reproduction was dominated by overwintered adults and began with effective populations ( $\text{N}_{\text{e}}$ ) of 9.2 (4.1 males and 6.8 females) occupying 3- to 4-ha patches of mesic vegetation. Territorial behavior opposes recruitment into these breeding populations. Few males have an opportunity to breed in their natal colony in their 1st summer, but 5% of 1st-litter female young (50% known to be philopatric) may do so. Young of subsequent litters, including any born to 1st-litter females, are unlikely to breed in the season of their birth. Episodes of predation may facilitate settlement and breeding of philopatric young of the year, or "floaters" of unknown origin. In a typical colony, breeding generated a mean surplus above replacement (potential emigrants) of 8 males and 6 females. Disappearance rates of overwintered adults (the number of voles present in 1 trapping session and not in the next divided by the number of intervening days) remained low until August. Disappearance of the 1st cohort of young averaged 1.8%/d for females and 3.7%/d for males. Young persisting into September in their natal colonies were the most likely to be present in the following spring. The socially determined window for recruitment appears limited to late summer and early fall. Winter trapping indicated that low temperatures and heavy snow cover inhibit movement between habitat patches during the winter months. The limited genetic analysis available indicates that variation is maintained in local gene pools despite restriction to small isolated habitat patches, small effective population sizes, and territorial behavior. Conservation concerns may arise due to the habitat specificity of M. richardsoni and the constraints on population dynamics and gene flow imposed by the small size and isolation of habitat patches and the harshness of the subalpine environment.
30136796|Parental investment declines with increasing age of offspring, producing a conflict between parent and offspring over amount of parental investment. The degree of parent-offspring conflict may be associated with the gender of the offspring, mating system such as polygyny, and variation in reproductive success among individuals. We examined the dynamics of maternal investment through time by observing nursing behavior in Roosevelt Elk (Cervus elaphus roosevelti). Suckling rate (P = 0.031) and suckling time per bout (P = 0.014) by calves decreased with calf age, and male suckling rate (P = 0.047) and suckling time per bout (P = 0.008) were greater than those for females. Maternal initiation of nursing was greater in the early nursing period (P = 0.009), and almost all suckling bouts were terminated by the mother. Our results were similar to those of studies on other polygynous ungulate species which exhibit differences in maternal investment in offspring based on gender.
10.2307/3536538|Life stage determination for many western plethodontids often requires dissection of the specimen. Availability of reliable external measures that could be applied under field conditions would enhance future studies of the genus Plethodon. We examined preserved specimens of the Del Norte Salamander, Plethodon elongatus, taken from 11 sites in northwestern California and southwestern Oregon. During the dissections, we recorded several external body characteristics that could prove useful in determining the life stage and gender of individuals. Identification of life stage is possible by using several external measurements. A discriminant function model including snout vent length, weight, head length, and width correctly classified life stage 92% of the time. A tree-based classification analysis identified snout-vent length as a single variable that could correctly classify life stage 90.2% of the time. We also have identified a sexually dimorphic character for adults, vent pattern and coloration, that can reliably distinguish gender at any time of year.
10.2307/3536854|We present a sampling method for use in small to medium-sized streams that is rigorous and repeatable, and contains the necessary flexibility to be species- or habitat-specific. Our habitat-based method generates large sample sizes for reliable statistical analyses yet remains cost effective. Streams are mapped, "habitat typed", and cross-stream sampling units (belts) are placed to systematically sample each stream based on habitat composition. Biotic and abiotic attributes of the habitat associated with each belt and animal capture are measured or estimated. We employed this sampling design to compare amphibian densities within streams in an old-growth coast redwood (Sequoia sempervirens) ecosystem in northwestern California. Our method targets stream-dwelling larval amphibians, but is also effective for adults and neotenes that share lotic habitats with larvae. This method provides baseline data on amphibian presence and abundance, as well as habitat-specific density estimates. It can also yield highly accurate population estimates for streams where sample sizes are sufficiently large.
43286404|In California, River Otters (Lontra canadensis) are most commonly associated with food-rich lowland aquatic habitats where they forage primarily on fish and crustaceans. Their distribution in high-elevation montane regions of the state, areas in which fish and crayfish were absent historically, is largely unknown. We compiled occurrence records of River Otters in California from elevations >1100m, and evaluated them using evidentiary standards. Based on 126 records, we report the widespread presence of River Otters in the Klamath, southern Cascades, and Sierra Nevada mountain ranges, including at elevations exceeding 3000m. Sixty-three percent of the records met our definition as "verified", and the remaining 37% were considered "unverified". The distribution of observations through time and habitats in which observations were made were similar between verified and unverified records. River Otter records spanned the period from 1900 to 2010, with 50% occurring between 1991 and 2010. Ninety-three percent of the water bodies with records of River Otters contained nonnative prey (fish and crayfish). Those lacking nonnative prey all supported native prey, including amphibians and reptiles. Based on records that contained River Otter foraging observations, nonnative fishes and crayfish were represented in 89% of the total accounts, and native frogs and invertebrates were represented in 22%. It remains unclear whether River Otters occurred in California's high-elevation water bodies prior to the introduction of fish and crayfish, and additional research is needed to understand the possible influence of nonnative prey in allowing River Otters to expand their distribution in these habitats.
10.2307/3536617|Sampling biases resulting from type and placement of traps can strongly influence results of studies of small mammals. We compared trap success of modified Fitch and Sherman live-traps in riparian areas of the Oregon Coast Range. Of 8 species of small mammals captured in sufficient numbers to allow statistical comparisons, 6 (Peromyscus maniculatus, Tamias townsendii, Microtus oregoni, Sorex trowbridgii, S. pacificus/sonomae, and Neurotrichus gibbsii) were captured more frequently in Sherman than in Fitch traps. Microtus longicaudus was captured with equal frequency in the 2 trap types. Zapus trinotatus was captured most frequently in Fitch live-traps. Incidence of trap mortalities did not differ between the 2 types of traps. In general, Sherman live-traps are more effective than Fitch live-traps, but use of Fitch live-traps may be particularly useful in studies of Zapus trinotatus.
10.2307/3536732|We analyzed forest composition and landscape preferences of marbled murrelets (Brachyramphus marmoratus). Using dawn surveys and tree climbing, we found 41 murrelet nest sites on state and federal lands in the Oregon Coast Range Province in western Oregon between 1990 and 1998. Landscapes in 0.5- and 1.0-km-radius plots at these nest sites were compared to patterns in similar plots around a set of points randomly selected from stands of mature or old-growth trees on public lands in the same province. We found less open-sapling and hardwood forests in the plots at nest sites than at random sites for both plot sizes. Conversely, the proportion of pole-young conifer habitat was greater at nest sites than at random sites for both plot sizes. Landscape pattern analysis showed that the amount of edge-perimeter density, nest-patch perimeter, and high-contrast edge of nest patches was lower in the 1.0-km-radius plots at nest sites than at random sites. Our best multivariate logistic regression model indicated that greater amounts of pole-young and mature-old-growth forests, less edge (perimeter density and high-contrast edge at nest patches), and more cohesive nest-patch shape best distinguished murrelet nest sites from random sites. We hypothesize that murrelet nest-site selection at the landscape scale may be the result of an antipredator strategy to reduce predation risks on eggs and juvenile murrelets. Young (simple-structure) conifer stands adjacent to nesting areas may decrease predation rates at murrelet nests. Land managers should consider limiting clearcut harvest units both adjacent to murrelet nest patches and within at least 1 km of murrelet nests, as clearcuts increase high-contrast edge in addition to increasing fragmentation levels.
20628126|Opportunistic observations of Nearctic River Otter (Lontra canadensis) were collected by volunteer observers in Humboldt and Del Norte counties to describe group and litter size patterns. In the first 5 y, 709 records were sent by email, mail, or an online form. River Otter pups were characterized relative to adult body size. Group sizes, ranging from 1 to 9 otters, were larger in summer and smaller in winter. Litter size ranged from 1 to 4 pups and declined from an average of 3.2 in spring to 1.6 in fall. Observers recorded 49 litters among 23 watercourses, with otters from some sites producing pups in multiple years. This Citizen Science approach to monitoring can provide valuable information to assess basic population parameters that might otherwise be unobtainable.
4095754|Biodiversity conservation in the US Pacific Northwest is gaining new attention as large reserves are recognized as not being a panacea for protection of all rare species. In February 2005, a workshop at Oregon State University, held in conjunction with the joint annual meetings of the Society for Northwestern Vertebrate Biology and the Oregon Chapter of the Wildlife Society, focused on key topics of concern relative to the advancement of biodiversity conservation in the region. Articles in this issue of Northwestern Naturalist provide overviews of these topics. As an introduction, I describe the origin of conservation biology at another conference 25 y ago and 2 key developments occurring in intervening years-the definition of "biodiversity" and the need to advance and integrate several socioeconomic aspects of the discipline. Both of these developments support the concept of conservation biology as a "place holder".
20628122|Conservation of the 105 species of amphibians, reptiles, and turtles in the northwestern United States and western Canada is represented by a diverse mix of projects and programs across ten states, provinces, and territories. In this paper, 29 contributing authors review the status of herpetofauna by state, province or territory, and summarize the key issues, programs, projects, partnerships, and regulations relative to the species and habitats in those areas. Key threats to species across this expansive area include habitat degradation or loss, invasive species, disease, and climate change. Many programs and projects currently address herpetological conservation issues, including numerous small-scale monitoring and research efforts. However, management progress is hindered in many areas by a lack of herpetological expertise and basic knowledge of species' distribution patterns, limited focus within management programs, insufficient funds, and limited communication across the region. Common issues among states and provinces suggest that increased region-wide communication and coordination may aid herpetological conservation. Regional conservation collaboration has begun by the formation of the Northwest working group of Partners in Amphibian and Reptile Conservation.
10.2307/3536672|In 1988, the nesting population of bald eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) in Barkley Sound, British Columbia was surveyed, and both the nesting habitat and the prey of these birds were investigated. Fifty-four occupied nesting territories were observed. Linear nest densities on forested islands in Barkley Sound averaged 0.11 nest/km of shoreline, and those along the perimeter of Vancouver Island in the Sound averaged 0.07 nests/km of shoreline. The number of eagles was similar to the number observed 15-17 years earlier by Retfalvi (1977). Of 80 prey remains found beneath nesting trees of eagles, birds constituted 41.2%, marine invertebrates 45.0%, fishes 10.0%, and mammals 3.8% of the identified items. The glaucous-winged gull (Larus glaucescens) was the most frequent prey species (28.3%) in the remains. Eagles also were observed to feed on herring spawn in March. The proportion of islands with nests was higher for large (>0.005 km<sup>2</sup>) islands than for smaller ones. Nests were found mostly in red cedar (Thuja plicata), but also in western hemlock (Tsuga heterophylla), sitka spruce (Picea sitchensis) and Douglas-fir trees (Pseudotsuga menziesii), at an average height of 30.3  13.3 m above ground. The distance of nests from shore averaged 37  21 m.
10.2307/3536929|Although the northern leopard frog (Rana pipiens) is among the most widely distributed amphibians in North America, population declines have been reported from several regions including the Pacific Northwest. We determined the historic distribution of the species in Washington State and conducted surveys to assess its current status. We obtained records from herpetological collections and solicited reports of sightings from biologists. We examined museum specimens to verify identification accuracy and evaluated sightings and solicited photographs to validate sight records. The records were compiled into 17 geographic "areas" representing clusters of locations where R. pipiens records occurred within 8 km of one another. All 17 areas are located in eastern Washington. We conducted field surveys in 16 of the 17 areas. Extant populations of R. pipiens were detected at only 2 areas. Rana pipiens appears to have been extirpated from most of its historic range in Washington, a phenomenon that has parallels in adjacent states and Canadian provinces.
10.2307/3536628|In July 1981, 5 adult rhinoceros auklets (Cerorhinca monocerata) were captured on the ground near nesting areas on each of Protection and Destruction Islands, Washington. The birds were euthanized, and their livers and kidneys removed and analyzed. Levels (g / g wet weight) of DDE (0.11 to 0.95), polychlorinated biphenyls (no residue detected [ND] to 1.1), mercury (0.60 to 1.8), and lead (ND to 0.85) in livers and cadmium (9.1 to 21.9) in kidneys were similar in each colony. All concentrations were less than known effect levels.
23259633|This study provides the first in depth assessment of Sea Otter haul-out patterns in Elkhorn Slough, California and their relationship to environmental variables. Seasonal and daily water and air temperature fluctuations are a good predictor of Sea Otter haul-out patterns but are affected by the availability of haul-out sites at different tide levels. The cost effectiveness of this choice may be maximal at night because of lack of human disturbance. Southern Sea Otters (Enhydra lutris nereis) were observed during 50 bimonthly 24-h periods between August 2007 and July 2009 (n = 1187 h) from a shore-based observation site located above a non-territorial male resting area on the north side of Moss Landing Harbor. We counted the number of Sea Otters in the area (both in the water and on land) at 30-min intervals. We also recorded tide height, and air and water temperature. Thirty-minute counts averaged 42 Sea Otters using the area (land and water) during the day and 66 at night. The average number of Sea Otters hauled out in the study area during the same haul-out event was 22, and the maximum number was 93. Sea Otters were observed hauled out on 70% of the days surveyed, and the proportion of Sea Otters hauled out was significantly higher at night. Higher numbers of Sea Otters on land was significantly correlated with lower air and water temperature, and with mid-range tide-heights. We speculate that haul-out behavior could play an important role in energy conservation; however, human-related traffic patterns in the area may negatively affect this energy conservation strategy.
10.2307/3536703|Diets of Canis latrans, Urocyon cinereoargenteus, and Buteo jamaicensis at Concord Naval Weapons Station, California, were determined from scats and pellets collected from March 1992 to March 1993. All 3 predators were opportunistic feeders whose diets consisted of a variety of food items. Microtus californicus was the most frequent animal prey found in both B. jamaicensis pellets and U. cinereoargenteus scats, followed by Spermophilus beecheyi. The most frequent prey items in the diet of C. latrans were S. beecheyi, M. californicus and Peromyscus maniculatus and / or Reithrodontomys megalotis. The dietary overlap we found for these 3 predators suggests that interspecific competition for food might intensify if S. beecheyi populations were reduced.
10.2307/3536777|Shorebirds wintering at Grays Harbor, Washington, were oiled when No. 6 fuel oil spilled from the barge Nestucca on 22 December 1988. Counts and observations on eight days during the ensuing two months provided information on the effects of oiling on black-bellied plover (Pluvialis squatarola), semipalmated plover (Charadrius semipalmatus), sanderling (Calidris alba), western sandpiper (C. mauri), and dunlin (C. alpina). Initially, 31% of shorebirds we observed roosting on ocean beaches were oiled; 10 days later this dropped to 5%. A harbor rate of 34% oiled shorebirds occurred after the ocean beach rate declined, then percentages of oiled shorebirds at each locality declined to insignificance. We report on behavioral changes observed in oiled dunlins and discuss three alternate hypotheses to explain the disappearance of over 3500 oiled shorebirds: self-cleaning, emigration, and mortality.
10.2307/3536775|We conducted transect surveys from the Oregon border to Monterey County in 1988 and 1989 to determine the distribution of marbled murrelets (Brachyramphus marmoratus) at inland sites in California. This seabird uses the coastal redwood (Sequoia sempervirens) forests of the northern half of California, but little is known of its distribution away from the ocean. We identified potential inland habitat from remote sensing data and then conducted systematic surveys of forest stands based on this inventory. Murrelets were detected on 74 of 170 (44%) transects, with a patchy distribution concentrated in three regions in Del Norte, Humboldt, San Mateo, and Santa Cruz Counties: (1) east of Crescent City to Redwood Creek in Redwood National Park; (2) lands east of Humboldt Bay to Humboldt Redwoods State Park on the Eel River; and (3) state parks in southern San Mateo and northern Santa Cruz Counties. The primary habitat type where birds were detected was old-growth dominated forest, with 1.05 detections/station, compared to 0.02 detections/station on second-growth transects. Transects with high activity levels tended to be in or west of old-growth stands 250 ha. The farthest inland we observed murrelets was 39 km from the coast.
10.2307/3536574|This study examined the relative importance of visual, chemical and thermal stimuli for releasing predatory strikes of the northern Pacific rattlesnake (Crotalus viridis oreganus). In experiment 1, adult snakes deprived of food for 30 days or longer were randomly presented four stimulus conditions (1/day) combining visual, visual-chemical, visual-thermal and visual-chemical-thermal stimuli in moving models resembling mice. Experiment 2 replicated experiment 1 except that snakes were deprived of food 9 days and a fifth condition, live mice, was added. The number of strikes elicited by each condition suggested that visual cues alone were ineffective releasers of the strike, the addition of thermal cues dramatically increased the likelihood of attack, and the presence of chemical cues was not essential for striking. However, differences between the two experiments suggested that the contribution of chemoreception to prestrike behavior increased with prolonged food deprivation. The most effective strike-releasing conditions were struck more quickly and after fewer tongue flicks than less effective conditions, but tongue flick rates (recorded only in experiment 2) did not differ between conditions. Increased length of food deprivation appeared to decrease the latency to strike. Most models were struck in anterior regions, which suggested that directional movement contributed to the strike aim. The proportion of models envenomated during the strike differed between two model conditions, implying that rattlesnakes possess control over the mechanics of venom injection.
10.2307/3536744|Between 1990 and 1992, 9 active marbled murrelet (Brachyramphus marmoratus) tree nests were found in western Oregon. Incubation was shared equally between adult birds with each bout lasting approximately 24 hr. Incubation exchanges took place during a relatively narrow time period, 30 to 8 min prior to official sunrise, and on average lasted 16 sec. Feedings occurred primarily at dawn, but adults also returned to feed nestlings at dusk and occasionally during mid-day. In contrast to incubation exchanges, the time adults arrived at nests to feed nestlings varied, both within and among nests, and occurred within 104 min and 90 min of official sunrise and sunset, respectively. The duration of feeding visits was also highly variable and ranged from 18 sec to 46 min in length (x = 16.7 min, SE = 1.3). Weather influenced arrival times of adults during incubation and nestling stages; on average birds arrived earlier on clear ( 75% cloud cover) than cloudy (> 75%) mornings. Murrelets at each nest used consistent flight paths when entering and exiting nest trees. Soft vocalizations from adults ("groan" and "whistle" calls) and chicks ("begging") were heard at all nests during incubation and feeding visits. In contrast, loud calls ("keer" and "groan"), which were frequently uttered by adults in flight, were uncommon and detected at only 3 nests. The behaviors observed at murrelet nests were secretive and probably designed to minimize detection by predators. While these behaviors pose challenges for locating nests in forests, knowledge of marbled murrelet activity patterns and behaviors associated with nesting will aid in monitoring efforts and in identifying areas that are used for nesting.
43286423|The Long-toed Salamander, Western Toad, Boreal Chorus Frog, Columbia Spotted Frog, and Wood Frog are known to occur in British Columbia north of 57N, a remote region that has received only sparse attention with regard to amphibian surveys. It is unclear whether range limits and gaps in the ranges of species reflect the actual absence of a particular species, or are due to an absence of data. To assess mis state of affairs, published and unpublished data from several sources, including my own surveys and incidental observations submitted to me by others, were compiled to more fully understand the ranges of amphibians in northern British Columbia.
10.2307/3536718|Artificial bat roosting houses are often used in managed forests of southwestern Oregon. The goal of this study was to find the orientation and exposure of bat houses that maximizes bat occupancy rates. Occupancy rates were highest in bat boxes with southern and eastern aspects (11.6% and 9.7%, respectively). Significant differences in occupancy were found between houses facing south and those facing north and also between houses facing east and those facing north. Houses facing into clearcuts may be used more often that those facing into the forest.
10.2307/3536904|Although bats are a group with high species richness in shrub-steppe areas of the Columbia Basin, limited information is available on distributions, species occurrence, and habitat use. We surveyed bat populations of the Hanford Site, which has provided a refuge for shrub-steppe flora and fauna in Washington State. We used Anabat detectors, harp traps, mist nets, and auditory-visual observations during 1997 and 1998 to document the occurrence of bat species and to compare activity levels among major habitat types on the site. Across both years, we recorded 6,470 bat calls during 302 bat detector survey-nights at 66 locations. Bats of the genus Myotis constituted 84 to 88% of total calls each year. The hoary bat (Lasiurus cinereus), silver-haired bat (Lasionycteris noctivagans), western pipistrelle (Pipistrellus hesperus), big brown bat (Eptesicus fuscus), and pallid bat (Antrozous pallidus) also were recorded. Big brown bats have not been reported previously at the Hanford Site. Detection rates were highest near potential roosting structures and riparian foraging areas, and lowest in upland shrub-steppe cover types. During 133 trap nights across both years, we captured 81 bats of 5 species: the western small-footed myotis (Myotis ciliolabrum), little brown myotis (M. lucifugus), Yuma myotis (M. yumanensis), silver-haired bat, and pallid bat. The site supports at least 3 arid-land bats (western small-footed myotis, western pipistrelle, and pallid bat) that are near the northern edge of their species distributions. By protecting large patches of undisturbed habitat, the Hanford Site has helped maintain a diverse bat fauna in Washington's shrub-steppe. In addition, some habitat modifications at the site may have benefited bats, as evidenced by heavy use of old buildings, irrigation run-off wetlands, and planted trees.
4095787| Populations of western toad (Bufo boreas) have declined or disappeared from much of the species' range in the United States. To assess distributions and densities of the western toad in the foothills of west-central Alberta, Canada, we conducted visual surveys of 130 natural water bodies in watersheds encompassing a range of human-disturbance levels in early and late summer 2000. Encounter rates were consistently low throughout the study area (0.2 to 0.3 toads/h) and were one-tenth the rate for the co-occurring wood frog (Rana sylvatica). Pitfall trapping of breeding and non-breeding sites during 2001 and 2002 showed differences in age structures between western toad and wood frog populations and low recruitment of newly metamorphosed juveniles into western toad populations. On ponds, more toads of 1 y old were captured than recently emerged juveniles. The difference between the 2 age classes was greater on 'borrow pits' (human-created roadside ponds) than on beaver ponds, suggesting that borrow pits might be population sinks providing poor larval habitat. Borrow pits either dried prior to juvenile emergence or had oligotrophic to mesotrophic waters compared to eutrophic conditions in beaver ponds. Pond creation as a mitigation strategy or by-product of road construction may put western toad populations at risk of decline in the foothills of Alberta. 
20628141|Marbled Murrelets (Brachyramphus marmoratus) nest predominantly in the canopies of large old-growth conifers, and are listed as Threatened in Canada and 3 US states mainly as a consequence of reductions in this habitat due to logging. We assessed the re-use of nest sites (nest trees) by murrelets in British Columbia using 3 types of data: 1) evidence of return of adults to the same nest site; 2) evidence of multiple nests within the same tree; and 3) re-checking known nest trees in subsequent seasons for evidence of re-use. All 3 methods showed evidence of re-use of nest trees in different years, but there were marked regional differences in the degree of re-use. Re-use of nest trees was most frequent in regions with extensive loss of nesting habitat due to logging (Southern Mainland Coast and East Vancouver Island), and rare in a less disturbed region (West Vancouver Island). Overall, 26 of 143 (18%) nest trees climbed showed evidence of multiple nesting in separate seasons. Management of nesting habitat should incorporate these results by providing greater protection of habitat in regions where habitat is sparse, and by minimizing predation risk where murrelets more frequently re-use nest sites. Since re-use of nest sites is infrequent, managers should aim to provide murrelets with multiple choices for nest sites, such as maintaining large tracts of old-growth forest with many large trees containing potential nest platforms.
41300873|Predator avoidance behavior minimizes predation risk because the prey never enters the perceptual field of the predator. For toxic species, avoiding potential predators indiscriminately is unlikely to be the best predator avoidance strategy because many predators will be incapable of consuming the toxin. We investigated the role of chemical-based avoidance behavior in predator-prey interactions between a toxic prey species, the Rough-skinned Newt (Taricha granulosa), and its major predator, the Common Garter Snake (Thamnophis sirtalis).Terrestrial newts avoided predator kairomones only when the predator had recently consumed a conspecific, but did not avoid damage-released alarm cues. These results indicate newts may be able to chemically differentiate between toxin-resistant and toxin-sensitive snakes in the same population and avoid only those snakes actively preying upon their cohort.
40983224|We describe the current distribution of native and non-native fishes in the Goose Lake basin, Oregon, with comparisons to prior unpublished surveys. We employed a generalized random tessellation stratified design to achieve a spatially-balanced sampling distribution across the drainage, including samples representative of both public and private lands. We collected all 9 native Goose Lake fishes, including 4 endemic fishes and the endangered Modoc Sucker. Two native fish species, the Modoc Sucker and the Pit Sculpin, were rarely encountered. The Modoc Sucker was limited to the upper Thomas Creek drainage; however, we documented a range expansion from that known at the time of listing in 1985. We collected the Pit Sculpin from only 2 sampling locations, indicating that the Oregon distribution of Pit Sculpins has contracted in the past 50 y. We also documented the apparent expansion of 2 non-native fishes, Fathead Minnow and Brown Bullhead, in the drainage. Within the Goose Lake fish assemblage, we describe 3 species groups that are correlated with land use and physical habitat parameters. The results of this study provide a baseline to assess trends in fish community structure over time and under different climatic conditions, measure the effects of restoration projects, and guide future restoration efforts.
10.2307/3536799|We describe resting sites used by 9 (4F:5M) radio-collared marten (Martes americana). Heights and diameters of a subsample of snags, stumps, and logs used as resting sites were measured and compared with values estimated from 80 control plots, and separately with values estimated from plots placed at 138 known marten locations. Snags, stumps, logs, and tree canopy made up 74% of 155 marten resting sites found during the study. Resting sites in snags, stumps, and logs were selected by marten and live trees were avoided. Snags, stumps, and logs used for resting sites were significantly larger than those generally available to marten. Stumps were used more in summer than winter whereas snag and log dens were used more in winter than summer. Twenty-four resting sites (16%) were re-used by marten 48 times. Preserving large snags and naturally occurring logs, and leaving cull logs and high stumps after timber harvest should benefit marten.
10.2307/3536785|Morphometrics (culmen length, bill height, bill width, wing chord length, and tarsus length) were taken on 664 marbled murrelets at Desolation Sound and Mussel Inlet, British Columbia, during 1994 to 1997, in order to assess morphological differences within and between populations and the accuracy of a discriminant function analysis to identify the sex of birds. An assessment of inter- and intra-observer variability in measurements was also made. Significant inter-observer effects and some intra-observer effects were found. Data from recaptured murrelets indicated they had decreased in size with age, which was attributed to inter-observer effects. Wing chord length had the highest measurement error (66.8%) among observers and tarsus length had the lowest error (36.8%). Deviations of measurements from the mean were compared among years and sites. No inter-annual differences were detected in any morphometric at Desolation Sound. Significant differences in culmen length, wing chord length, and tarsus length were found between birds from Mussel Inlet and Desolation Sound, which might indicate discrete populations. The degree of sexual dimorphism in this species was small (measurements of females average 98% of corresponding measurements of males) and discriminant function analysis revealed only about a 70% success rate in allocating birds to sex; therefore, its widespread use in this species is not recommended. Future studies of marbled murrelets, or other avian species, which involve large numbers of personnel, should incorporate extensive training of all observers, with data continually cross-checked in order to minimize intra- and inter-observer differences in measurements.
10.2307/3536730|Management of the northern spotted owl (Strix occidentalis caurina) across its range, which includes several physiographic provinces, requires information on demographic variability due to vegetative and physical factors. Each year for 1 decade, from 1990 through 1999, we determined productivity, subadult recruitment, and adult mortality at 100 spotted owl territories spanning the current east-west distribution of the species across the central Cascade Range of Washington State. Breeding territories were primarily restricted to 5 coniferous forest vegetation zones, representing moisture and topographic gradients from the mesic west slope to the xeric east slope. Physical and geographic parameters that varied along the east-west gradient (annual precipitation, elevation, longitude) were only weakly correlated with productivity. However, life history characteristics exhibited clines along a cross-range gradient in vegetation types. Owls holding territories in xeric vegetation zones nested more often, produced more young, and tended to recruit more subadults as territory holders, but tended to experience higher mortality than owls in mesic zones. This clinal variation may have implications for management of this threatened owl, as well as interpreting life history data reported for other raptors, particularly species distributed across multiple ecological zones.
20628125|In 2007, a new species of shrew, Sorex rohweri, was described from western Washington. We examined historical museum and recent voucher specimens to assess identification criteria and status of this new species in British Columbia. Most similar morphologically to Sorex cinereus and Sorex vagrans, S. rohweri can be identified by a combination of dental and skull traits. Three-group discriminant analyses of 100 specimens based on as few as 6 skull measurements correctly assigned 98% of individuals to the 3 species. The available records, consisting of 18 specimens from 13 locations, suggest that S. rohweri has a small range extent of about 360 km in the lower Fraser River basin confined to the south side of the Fraser River. The combination of the shrew's association with forested habitats in a region greatly affected by agricultural and urban development, the concentration of recent records from Burns Bog, a fragmented 3000-ha patch of natural habitat, and the isolation of the British Columbian population from populations in Washington make it a species of national conservation concern in Canada.
20628140|As part of forest resource monitoring efforts in Sun Pass State Forest, we conducted surveys for White-headed Woodpeckers (Picoides albolarvatus) during May and June 2007. We conducted surveys using call points along a standardized grid. We had 70 White-headed Woodpecker detections in the forest boundary. We found 2 nest sites in 17- and 20-cm diameter Quaking Aspen (Populus tremuloides) trees. Sun Pass was characterized primarily by early to midseral Ponderosa Pine (Pinus ponderosa) and Ponderosa Pine-dominated mixed-conifer forest stands managed primarily by single tree selection harvests. There is little published information on this species, and evidence suggests that this species is associated with old growth Ponderosa Pine habitat. Our results indicate that this species also uses an actively managed forest in the southeastern Oregon Cascade Range.
4095788|Information on fisher (Martes pennanti) densities is needed for the management and conservation of this mid-sized carnivore in British Columbia. To address this knowledge gap, we estimated the density of fishers in an industrial forest in north-central British Columbia between 1996 and 2000 using a minimum number alive estimate derived from live-trapping and radio-telemetry data. Density estimates averaged
10.2307/3536848|Two methods of analyzing the dietaries of mycophagous small mammals were compared. Fecal pellets were collected from 11 northern flying squirrels and 12 Townsend's chipmunks, all caught live. In 1 method, pellets from each individual were examined microscopically; in the other, samples from 3 or 4 individuals from each species were pooled and the number of slides and the fields of view used for each slide were reduced, resulting in less time and effort to collect data. Diet analysis by the two methods did not differ significantly for either mammal species.
4095756|Comparisons of natural and managed forests suggest that single-focus management of 2nd growth is unlikely to achieve broad conservation goals because biocomplexity is important to ecosystem capacity to produce useful goods and services. Biocomplexity includes species composition, the absolute and relative abundances of those species, and their arrangement in space (for example, trees and shrubs of various species, sizes, vigor, and decay states). Key to high biocomplexity is patchiness at the appropriate spatial scale (for example, 0.1 to 0.5 ha). Passive management (benign neglect) does not necessarily remedy whatever degradation might have occurred under past management or neglect (for example, lack of biological legacies, artificial homogeneity, loss of biodiversity, missing keystone species, presence of diseases, or increased vulnerability to disturbance). Furthermore, not all management is equal. Purposefully managing processes of forest development and landscape dynamics is more likely to be successful in maintaining ecosystem and landscape function (and adaptiveness) than just providing select structural elements in stands and select structural stages in landscapes, as is often suggested for conservation. Deliberate simplification of ecosystems (for example, even-aged, single-species plantations harvested every 15 to 40 y to maximize wood production) runs counter to conservation, even if rotations are extended slightly and conventional thinning is applied. Recent experiments support the importance of biocomplexity to soil organisms, vascular plants, fungi, invertebrates, birds, small mammals, and vertebrate predators. These studies suggest that various techniques used purposefully over time are more likely to be successful than any 1-time intervention, passive management, or traditional timber management. Biocomplexity is promoted by variable-retention harvest systems, planting and precommercial thinning for species diversity, variable-density thinning to create spatial heterogeneity and foster species diversity, managing decadence processes to provide cavity trees and coarse woody debris, and long to indefinite rotations. At the landscape scale, passive management (reserves and riparian corridors) that does not take into account restoration needs may be self-fulfilling prophecies of forest fragmentation and landscape dysfunction. Restoring landscape function entails restoring function to both 2nd growth and riparian areas. Intentional (integrated, holistic, and collaborative) systems management seems to offer the best hope for meeting diverse objectives for forests, including conservation of biodiversity, a sustained yield of forest products, and economic, social, and environmental sustainability.
10.2307/3536905|During the non-breeding season, shorebirds concentrate in areas of high prey availability where some individuals defend feeding territories. We examined relationships between diet and variation in home range size (ha), distance moved (m, km), and spatial patterns (uniform, random, aggregated) of long-billed curlews (Numenius americanus) occupying low-tide feeding territories from June 1998 to March 1999. During 2-hr focal observations, sizes of home range (1.3 to 7.5 ha) and total distances moved (1.1 to 2.8 km) differed among curlews. Within home ranges, the spatial distribution of curlew locations (recorded at 2-min intervals) was most often (74%) uniform. Home range sizes differed among territories in summer and winter; distances moved differed among territories in summer but not winter. There was no difference among territories in the spatial pattern of curlew locations. Curlews fed for similar proportions of time in summer (84%) and winter (88%). Summer diets differed because curlews ate many bivalves on 2 of 8 territories; diets also differed in numbers of shrimp, crabs, and worms. During winter, diets were similar among 3 territories. Curlews ate fewer shrimps, crabs, fishes, and other (unknown prey) and more worms in winter than summer. Curlews occupied larger home ranges, moved greater distances, and were more aggregated in their use of space when they fed a greater proportion of the time, and especially when diets consisted of more crabs and fewer bivalves. This variation is probably a result of curlews using visual and tactile cues when foraging for different prey. Space and diet varied among and co-varied within territories, probably in response to spatial and temporal variation in food distribution and abundance, competitor density, and habitat configurations.
20628139|Nearctic River Otters (Lontra canadensis) deposit scat (feces), scat-jellies (mucous deposits), urine, and dark colored anal gland secretions at latrine sites. We tested responses of River Otters to removal and addition of scat to assess the role of marks. We found a 9-fold increase in River Otter urine marking along with a 5-fold increase in scat-jellies following removal of all marks from latrines, but scat deposition frequency remained constant. River Otters investigated foreign more than local scat when added to latrines. This result supports the notion that River Otters are capable of distinguishing foreign from local scent marks. The ability to recognize an unfamiliar signaler is necessary if marks function in social recognition and spacing. Our findings illustrate the potential role of olfactory signaling in the social lives of River Otters and highlight a previously un-established importance of urine and scat-jellies in intra-group communication.
10.2307/3536839|Bird migration was monitored for 4 years (1987 to 1990), at 2 central Alaska locations proposed for huge Air Force radar screens. Nearly 10,000 flocks of large birds were recorded; 30% of these flocks included swans. Approximately 7% (n = 211) of these swan flocks were composed of 2 or more species. Mixed flocks of tundra swans (Cygnus columbianus) and trumpeter swans (C. buccinator) were recorded most often (103 flocks). Swan flocks also contained geese (80 flocks) and ducks (16 flocks). Swans also were observed migrating with sandhill cranes (Grus canadensis, 3 flocks) and large gulls (Larus spp., 2 flocks). Mixed flocks always were flying in the long line formations typical of swans in migration and were intermixed rather than grouped. Only in the case of cranes were the swans outnumbered by other species.
10.2307/3536689|Four radio-marked adult female blue grouse, Dendragapus obscurus, had brood ranges <0.5 km from their nest sites. Brood ranges of nine yearling females were <0.5 km from their nests but those of seven were beyond that. Two yearlings nested in dense second growth forest but immediately after hatch moved >1 km to more open brood ranges. Cumulative movements of 7 of 20 brood hens exceeded 1 km in the first week post-hatch; two adults remained within 0.5 km of their nests but five yearlings moved beyond that. Mean daily movements of brood hens in the first week post-hatch were 0.14 and 0.11 km/day for yearling and adult females, respectively. Mean bimonthly sizes of home ranges of brood hens were relatively constant throughout summer but mean cumulative sizes increased steadily. Eleven of 30 hens moved 1 to 3.2 km from their nest sites immediately after losing their clutches or broods; 10 entered dense forest. Post-nesting home ranges of 12 of 28 broodless hens were 0.5 km from their nests. Mean sizes of pre-migratory bimonthly home ranges of most broodless females remained constant following loss of eggs or chicks and were the same size as those of brood hens; mean cumulative sizes increased steadily until departure from breeding range. Hens with broods used more open vegetative cover than those without broods and remained on breeding range until late August or early September. Hens without broods remained on breeding range from 3-54 days after loss of nests or chicks and, on average, left breeding range about one month before hens with broods. Movements of brood and broodless hens from breeding range (post-breeding migration) were largely unidirectional and began with a sudden move toward upland forest. Migratory movements ranged from 1-1.8 km/day. We suggest that: 1) some yearling females may nest in sub-optimal habitats that are not adjacent to acceptable brood ranges because of saturation of optimal habitats by adults and other yearlings, and 2) that broods may remain on breeding ranges longer than broodless females because of resources required by chicks.
10.2307/3536484|This 1st summary of the barred owl (Strix varia) colonization of Montana was constructed from a review of the literature. We believe that previous reports of spotted owls (S. occidentalis) in Montana were most likely mis-identifications of barred owls. Evidence suggests that Montana was the 1st state where barred owls entered the northwestern United States, which occurred approximately 75 years ago in the early to mid-1920's. These owls appear to have originated from Canada. The historic distribution of barred owls in far eastern Montana is unlikely, however. At least 87 confirmed records of 1 barred owl now exist in Montana, and it appears likely this species will continue to colonize both north to south and east to west.
10.2307/3536786|We report on nests of radio-marked marbled murrelets (Brachyramphus marmoratus) nesting in unusual habitats in southwestern British Columbia. We found 1 confirmed and 2 probable marbled murrelet nest sites on cliffs. These represent the 1st substantiated accounts of ground nesting in this species south of Alaska. In addition, we found a marbled murrelet nesting in a 130 (5)-yr-old red alder (Alnus rubra) deciduous tree. A survey of available nesting sites in both the nest tree patch and the mixed coniferous-deciduous stand adjacent to this deciduous nest tree indicated most potential nesting trees were deciduous and that deciduous trees had a higher density of potential nesting sites. These unusual sites represent a very small proportion (7% of confirmed sites, 3% of suspected sites) of nest sites found in British Columbia using radio telemetry. Both confirmed nest sites consisted of a platform with heavy epiphyte cover and an adjacent flyway, similar to nests found in mature coniferous forest.
23259690|The Great Gray Owl (Strix nebulosa) is a difficult species to detect because of its remote breeding locations and secretive nature. We used autonomous recording units (ARUs) to monitor nest activity at 6 Great Gray Owl territories from JuneJuly 2006 in the Sierra Nevada, California. We also used ARUs to survey for Great Gray Owl presenceabsence status at 15 potential territories from MarchApril 2007. Each unit recorded 12 h/night (18:0006:00). In 2006, we recorded juvenile begging calls at 3 sites. In 2007, we recorded adult Great Gray Owl vocalizations at 10 sites. We recorded audible calls during approximately 40% of the nights sampled at locations with owl detections. We concluded that a combination of ARUs and acoustic analysis provides an effective non-invasive method to detect and monitor Great Gray Owls as well as other secretive and nocturnal species.
10.2307/3536838|We sought to determine the presence or absence of marbled murrelets (Brachyramphus marmoratus) within the northern Inner North Coast Ranges of northwestern California. We conducted murrelet surveys and collected environmental data during 1995 and 1996 on national forest lands that south of the Klamath Mountains Section and within B. marmoratus management Zone 2 as designated by the Forest Ecosystem Management Assessment Team. Using a stratified random sampling design, we surveyed for murrelets within the 2 coniferous forest habitat types most likely to be used by murrelets: late mature and old-growth Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) and late mature and old-growth tanoak (Lithocarpus densiflora). We used the generalized binomial model to determine sample sizes and to estimate the power of survey results for a range of assumed levels of murrelet occurrence (p) and probabilities of detection (p). In 1995 and 1996, we conducted 1424 surveys at 178 Douglas-fir sampling units, surveying 30.8% of the total amount of this stratum within the study area. In 1995, we conducted 760 surveys at 95 tanoak sampling units, surveying 58.6% of this stratum. We did not detect B. marmoratus in either habitat type. When we assumed a p of 0.03, and a p of 0.10, the power of our surveys to detect murrelets was 0.95 and 0.81 for the Douglas-fir and tanoak habitat types, respectively. Given the high power associated with our results and the large proportion of the total potential habitat surveyed, we concluded that our study area was not within the current range of B. marmoratus. Most habitat characteristics, including corvid abundance, were similar to murrelet nesting habitat in other areas. The relatively high elevation and farinland location, and the related characteristics of climate and habitat structure, may explain the apparent absence of B. marmoratus from our study area. Accordingly, we recommend that the Forest Ecosystem Management Assessment Team zone lines be adjusted so that the Inner North Coast Ranges are excluded from Zone 2.
10.2307/3536700|Distributions of forest birds during winter and summer were surveyed along an elevational transect in the Sierra Santa Cruz, California, to determine if species distributions were ordered in relation to underlying environmental gradients. Most bird species occurred year-round, although maximum richness of species occurred in summer after migrants arrived for breeding. Bird species were more closely associated with tree species during summer than winter, although nearly as many bird species showed no significant correlations with tree species in both seasons. The richness of bird species was significantly correlated with increasing cover of coast live oak (Quercus agrifolia) in both summer and winter. Although the main ecological division among bird communities followed the distribution of forest types, individual tree species were a better indicator of the abundance, composition, and distribution of bird species.
4095785|Tailed frogs (Ascaphus spp.) oviposit in cryptic locations in streams of the Pacific Northwest and Rocky Mountains. This aspect of their life history has restricted our understanding of their reproductive ecology. The recent split of A. montanus in the Rocky Mountains from A. truei was based on molecular differentiation, and comparisons of their ecology are limited. Our objectives were to provide a range-wide summary of information on Ascaphus oviposition, compare some aspects of the reproductive ecology of the 2 species, and examine geographic variation in their reproductive traits. Reproductive ecology of the 2 species differed. Ascaphus truei had smaller clutches, oviposited later in the summer, and had a longer duration of oviposition than A. montanus. A greater number of communal oviposition sites were attributed to A. montanus. These ecological differences support the recent taxonomic revision of Ascaphus and suggest that different management strategies may be necessary for each species where conservation is a priority.
4501966|Spawning surveys of Pacific lamprey (Lampetra tridentata) and western brook lam-prey (L. richardsoni) were conducted in the Cedar Creek drainage, a tributary within the Columbia River basin in Washington State. Twenty-seven surveys were conducted in 2001, 50 in 2002, and 53 in 2003. A total of 237 Pacific lamprey nests and 58 western brook lamprey nests were examined to describe nest characteristics (area, excavation depth, and longevity) and their associated habitat (water depth, water velocity, substrate size, and gradient). Spawning behaviors (timing, adult visibility, and courtship rituals) were evaluated to determine if spawning surveys could be used as an indicator of adult abundance. Pacific lamprey nests were larger in area and were excavated deeper than western brook lamprey nests; on rare occasions the 2 types of nests were found superimposed. Although western brook and Pacific lamprey nests displayed overlap in all habitat parameters, each species primarily exploited resources not readily available to or selected by the other. Additionally, the 2 species exhibited within-basin geographic segregation, spawning in different portions of the drainage with minimal overlap. Habitats used by both species were similar to criteria established for Oncorhynchus spp., and it is likely that restoration projects focusing on improving salmonid spawning habitat will benefit lamprey as well. Spawning surveys can be used to monitor and evaluate nest characteristics, habitat use, and behavior, but due to the variability in the number of adults associated with each nest, more information is required before using them to accurately monitor adult abundance.
20628138|Carcasses of the federally endangered subspecies of Mountain Beaver, Aplodontia rufa nigra, were recovered and necropsied. Metals chemistry revealed mean concentrations of copper (x = 1250.0, s = 60.8 g/g dry weight [dw]) and iron (x = 3573.3, s = 2505.0 g/g dw) in liver tissue that were in the range indicative of possible copper toxicosis and liver storage disease in other species. Normal ranges of metal concentrations in the tissues of Mountain Beavers, however, are unknown. Livers of trapped Mountain Beavers from other locations also showed high mean copper (x = 1035.3, s = 612.3 g/g dw) and iron (x = 8317.5, s = 7985.6 g/g dw) concentrations. Metals in soil and plant tissue samples collected from the territories of the necropsied animals were within expected ranges. These results suggest that copper and iron might be naturally higher in Mountain Beaver livers relative to other rodent species. However, the possibility that at least some of the animals exhibited a disease condition cannot be dismissed without further evaluation.
10.2307/3536840|Factors influencing caching behavior of red squirrels (Tamiasciurus hudsonicus) were studied in Pattee Canyon, Lolo National Forest, Montana. Tamiasciurus hudsonicus in this population cache ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) cones and Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) cones in multiple caches of varying size. In comparison with randomly-selected, potential cache sites, caches were associated with soft soil and were near T. hudsonicus nests. Frequency of cache use was not significantly correlated with any measured attribute of caches. The use of multiple caches in this population may be a response to feeding on non-serotinous cones, which must be cached quickly.
10.2307/3536554|Intensive surveys to locate greater sandhill cranes (Grus canadensis tabida) were conducted in Oregon in 1986 and California in 1988. We recorded 1223 pairs, 947 in Oregon, 276 in California and 765 nonbreeding cranes. Breeding pair numbers in Oregon indicated Oregon breeding pair numbers have remained mostly stable during the past 15 years, but some decreases were noted at localized areas. Breeding pairs increased 52% in California between 1971 and 1988. Seventy-two percent of the breeding pairs nested on private land, and 28% nested on federal and state lands.
10.2307/3536856|We conducted surveys in Rocky Mountain National Park, Colorado for amphibians in 1987-1994. Four species, Ambystoma tigrinum, Bufo boreas, Pseudacris maculata, and Rana sylvatica, were recorded. Pseudacris maculata was the most widely distributed and abundant species in the Park. Two populations of P. maculata were estimated to contain 161 and 136 breeding males in 1988. There was no evidence of a decline of A. tigrinum or R. sylvatica, but these species were found at relatively few locations. We did not detect Rana pipiens, which had been known previously from 3 locations in the Park. We found 7 breeding populations of B. boreas, which has declined recently elsewhere in the southern Rocky Mountains, but all but 2 of these populations were small and may not reproduce annually. At least one of these small populations is thought to have been extirpated. Estimated numbers of males in the 2 large populations, which are 6.4 km apart in the same drainage, were stable or increasing slightly from 1992 to 1995, averaging 189 and 239 individuals. Current and known locations of amphibians did not differ in elevation, size, lake type, presence of shallow water or emergent vegetation on the north shore, or presence of trout. Water chemistry at amphibian breeding sites was variable, but pH decreased significantly with increasing elevation. Causes of declines of B. boreas and R. pipiens are not known. Populations of B. boreas in the North Fork of the Big Thompson River are critically important to the conservation of this species in the Rocky Mountains.
43286425|Harbor Seals (Phoca vitulina) are the most common and widely distributed pinniped in Washington State coastal waters. Serving as sentinels of marine ecosystem health, stranded animals are useful in detecting environmental disease and contaminant levels. From 2004 to 2010, we examined mortality rates and causes of death of Harbor Seal pups at Smith Island, a principal haulout site in the eastern Strait of Juan de Fuca, Washington, conducting 21 site surveys during the pupping season (June through August). We documented and externally examined 245 dead pups and of these, 72 were deemed suitable for more detailed internal examination and were collected for necropsy to determine cause of death. Minimum estimated neonatal mortality varied widely by year and ranged from 3 to 25%. The highest number of dead pups, nearly half of the total for the study, were found in 2005; this was also the year with the highest estimate of pups born and highest proportion of pups born that were documented dying. Infection was the leading primary cause of death in most years including 2005, when 40% of the pups died from an infectious process. The 2nd leading cause of death was malnutrition; other causes included prematurity and dystocia. This study documents some of the major annual differences that can occur in both mortality rates and causes of death in Harbor Seals.
41300874|Bald Eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) populations along the north Pacific coast from southern British Columbia to the Alaska Peninsula have been monitored since 1967 with aerial surveys using a universal random plot design. This survey consisted of 233 plots, each 168.3 km. The expanded population estimate for adults totaled 58,000 after applying a visibility correction factor of 2.0. This accounted for roughly half of the world's population. With multiple surveys, I determined that populations in southeast Alaska, Prince William Sound, and the Alaska Peninsula increased until the late 1980s and remained stable thereafter. All possible plots, under this survey design, can be delineated for future replication or modification using 2 simple equations.
43286673|Predator avoidance strategies are often viewed in the context of innate or learned, yet a true test of this hypothesis requires animals that are completely nave to potential predators. We examined the predator avoidance behavior of juvenile Rough-skinned Newts (Taricha granulosa) that had been reared in captivity since being deposited as eggs and had never been exposed to predators or predator stimuli. In contrast to a previous study on adult newts, juveniles avoided a broader range of chemical stimuli from potential predators, including alarm cues from damaged conspecifics and stimuli from 2 Common Gartersnakes (Thamnophis sirtalis) that had recently consumed newts. These results suggest that predator avoidance in Taricha granulosa innate. Unlike adult newts, the avoidance of a wider range of stimuli by juvenile newts is likely an effective strategy at reducing prdation risk given their small size and lower tetrodotoxin concentrations (compared to adults), both of which render them vulnerable to predation by gartersnakes.
10.2307/3536629|We examined a random sample of 105 felled Douglas-fir trees (Pseudotsuga menziesii) for nests. Some trees were infected by Douglas-fir dwarf mistletoe (Arceuthobium douglasii) and some were not. Nineteen nests of similar form and construction, judged to be those of red squirrels (Tamiasciurus hudsonicus), were found in 17 infected trees. Most of the trees with nests were moderately to heavily infected with dwarf mistletoe. All nests were found in witches' brooms caused by dwarf mistletoe. Our finding supports the concept that witches' brooms are an ecologically important addition to the structural and/or functional diversity of forest canopies.
10.2307/3536508|We X-rayed 1254 fishes representing 17 species collected between 1952 and 2000, mostly from the Willamette River, Oregon. We classified 12 categories of axial skeleton deformities for each fish and analyzed number of deformity categories per individual (deformity load) and frequency of deformities in a sample. Frequencies of deformities may give an inflated estimate of potential environmental impacts because caudal neural-spine deformities are common (314 fish). Caudal deformities may indicate either low-level interference with developmental programs or normal developmental variation. We considered the latter explanation, and when caudal deformities were removed from analyses, precaudal deformity load showed more geographic, temporal, and taxonomic variation and seemed a more useful metric of disruption of skeletal development. Precaudal deformity load was most severe in Newberg Pool. If precaudal deformities accurately indicate environmental stress, fish from Newberg Pool and Wheatland Ferry areas of the Willamette River have been stressed since 1983, and the stressor may have been introduced between 1952 and 1983. The taxonomic pattern of deformities and early onset in development did not suggest bioaccumulation through the food web. Acute exposure to a toxin or maternal transfer to eggs seem more likely mechanisms.
30136799|Silvicultural practices such as thinning are performed both for commodity production and to help achieve fuel reduction and biodiversity goals. Although there are several studies that have examined effects of clearcut harvest techniques on forest songbirds, few have examined the effects of thinning. We studied the response of songbirds to different silvicultural approaches to forest management. We experimentally manipulated three 80 to 110 y-old Douglas-fir stands to evaluate influences of commercial thinning and clearcut harvest silvicultural systems on populations of diurnal breeding birds in southwestern Oregon. We conducted 10 to 12 bird point count surveys in each stand between 1992 and 1994 (prior to treatment), and point count surveys of birds 6 times each year from 1998 through 1999 (subsequent to treatment). We found that relative abundance and species richness were highest in the uncut control plots, slightly lower in the thinned plots, and lowest in the clearcut plots. A species-by-species analysis of those species with sufficient data showed marked negative short-term impacts of clearcutting on 12 of 16 species, potentially moderate negative impacts of thinning on 9 of 16 species, as well as positive impacts of thinning on at least 3 species.
30135114|Triangle Island, the most westerly of the Scott Islands, supports the larger of 2 active Common Murre (Uria aalge) breeding colonies (about 3000 pairs) in British Columbia, Canada. However, little is known about the species' breeding ecology at this site. Here, we report on investigations of murre biology at Triangle Island between 2002 and 2007. Possibly indicative of their zoogeographic affinities, Triangle Island Common Murres are more similar in size to those that breed at colonies to the north than to the south. Murres were first seen on the colony between late March and early April. The 1st eggs were laid in mid- to late May, and latest eggs (1st or replacement) in mid-July. Median laying dates varied by about 25 d across 5 y (2003 to 2007). Despite differences in adult size, eggs laid at Triangle Island were similar in size to those at murre colonies across western North America. Breeding success for murres at Triangle Island ranged from 54% (2007) to 82% (2004) over 5 y, which is on the high end of the range for Pacific colonies. Adult Pacific Sand Lance (Ammodytes hexapterus) and juvenile rockfish (Sebastes spp.) combined formed the bulk (71 to 80%) of prey items delivered to nestling murres. Chick mass measured just prior to the start of fledging was notably reduced in 2005 compared to the other 5 y of the study, an obvious manifestation of the extreme oceanic conditions in the California Current system in that year. This report forms the most comprehensive account of the breeding biology of Common Murres in British Columbia, and should provide a benchmark against which future changes in this colony can be measured.
20628137|The 1995 Vision Fire burned 5000 ha and destroyed 40% of the habitat of the Point Reyes Mountain Beaver (Aplodontia rufa phaea). Surveys immediately post-fire and in 2000 showed that only 0.4 to 1.7% of Mountain Beavers within the burn area survived. In 2000, dense, ground-hugging Blue-blossom Ceanothus (Ceanothus thrysiflorus) appeared to make coastal scrub thickets much less suitable for Mountain Beavers even though the number of burrows at our 11 study sites had returned to 88% of pre-fire numbers. In 2005 (10 y post-fire), the habitat appeared to be better for Mountain Beavers; Blue-blossom Ceanothus had diminished and vegetation more typical of northern coastal scrub, such as Coyote Brush (Baccharis pilularis) overstory with a lower layer of herbaceous vegetation, had greatly increased; but the number of Mountain Beaver burrows had declined to 52% of pre-fire numbers and there was little change in the number of sites occupied between our 2000 and 2005 surveys. With the expected successional changes in thicket structure, Mountain Beaver populations are likely to recover further, but there will probably be considerable variation in how each population stabilizes.
10.2307/3536864|Habitat use, diet and breeding biology of tufted puffins (Fratercula cirrhata) were studied in Prince William Sound, Alaska, during summer 1995. On Seal Island, 112 puffin burrows (71% active) were located. Of 95 accessible burrows, 49% were typical earthen burrows, whereas the remainder were atypical for the species (e.g., under tree roots). Hatching success (79%), fledging success (82%), chick growth rates (17.7 g/day), asymptotic (600 g) and fledging (563 g) weights, meal sizes (14.2 g), meal delivery rates (5.32 meals/day), and daily rations (75.5 g/day) were all average or above-average for tufted puffins in Alaska. A total of 42 chick meals, comprising 125 individual prey were collected. Meals were composed of juvenile pollock (12.7% of total mass), herring (21.8%), prowfish (32.3%), salmonids (24.1%), and capelin, sandlance and squid (<5% each). Tufted puffin populations in Prince William Sound are relatively small, and may be limited by low densities of prey in the Sound, nest-site availability, and heavy rainfall.
10.2307/3536748|Surveys of adult and juvenile marbled murrelets (Brachyramphus marmoratus) were conducted in Auke Bay, Alaska, from 15 July to 18 August 1993. Transects were surveyed at 800 m and 1400 m from shore to determine the proportion of juvenile murrelets at sea in Auke Bay. The proportion of juveniles was small, ranging from 0.4 to 3.1%. Juveniles were seen only on the transect closer to shore. The ratio of juveniles to adults did not differ among weeks during the breeding season. Results are discussed in relation to the length and placement of transects designed to collect data for at-sea survey protocols to estimate murrelet productivity.
10.2307/3536717|Members of the Lewis and Clark expedition produced written descriptions of many species of wildlife, including 6 species of grouse. We reviewed the accounts of 83 grouse observations, plus summary descriptions and indirect references to grouse by Meriwether Lewis, William Clark, and 3 of their sergeants. We then assigned them to species based on described characteristics, known distributions, habitat, behavior, and/or other written clues. Fifty-nine (71%) observations were considered relatively unambiguous as to identity because of a bird's morphology and appearance, a descriptive name, a non-overlapping range, and/or other clues. These included greater prairie-chickens (Tympanuchus cupido), sharp-tailed grouse (T. phasianellus), greater sage-grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus), blue grouse (Dendragapus obscurus), spruce grouse (Falcipennis canadensis), and ruffed grouse (Bonasa umbellus). Other observations were assigned to 'possible' species based on available evidence. Our evaluation of Lewis's and Clark's written descriptions differed in some cases from earlier reviews. Most notable differences involved blue, spruce, and ruffed grouse and we offer suggestions for changes. We also used journal records to compare pre-settlement (by Euro-Americans) distributions of grouse as indicated by the journal records with those today and to speculate on changes in abundance. Greatest changes have occurred in distributions and abundances of the 3 prairie grouse, species whose habitats have been most impacted by settlement. Other highlights of the expedition include the 1st written descriptions of blue grouse and greater sage-grouse and of undescribed subspecies of sharp-tailed, spruce, and ruffed grouse.
40856455|Common Ravens (Corvus corax) are considered an important predator of Sandhill Crane (Grus canadensis) eggs, but direct observations of prdation events are rare. We observed 25 events of Common Ravens at or near artificial nests with infertile crane eggs; 15 of those events resulted in prdation. Reconnaissance time averaged 1.8  3.0 min, egg handling averaged 5.8  3.9 min, and total time to reconnoiter, approach, and consume or remove eggs from a nest averaged 8.4  5.7 min. Ravens consumed 67% of the eggs at the nest and cached the other 33%. To eat an egg, ravens always punched a hole in the surface, but hole sizes and shapes differed. To cache eggs, ravens carried eggs away intact, leaving no evidence in the nest, and concealed them 5.5 to 180 m from the nest. The rapidity of some raven depredation events indicates a high potential for success of taking crane eggs from an active but unattended nests. Given the diverse patterns of eggshell remains and ravens' ability to carry whole eggs, distinguishing egg prdation by ravens from other predators would be very difficult.
4095755|The USDA Forest Service Pacific Northwest Research Station's Biodiversity Initiative seeks to determine the types of science tools needed by natural resource professionals to meet diverse and complex biodiversity goals. During the scoping phase of this Initiative, we asked a broad cross-section of people whose work involves managing for biodiversity, from state and federal agencies to private forestry companies and environmental groups, what their priority needs, challenges, and concerns were for the region's biodiversity conservation. We report here the results of our scoping phase and discuss how we intend to address the issues raised. The main biodiversity management challenges included a lack of a common definition of biodiversity, lack of standardized policy to implement biodiversity management objectives, uncertainty about disturbance effects, lack of a monitoring framework, conflicting social and economic values, and difficulty in finding relevant data and information. The products most frequently requested included a central clearinghouse for biodiversity information and resources, various information products, quantification of social and economic values of biodiversity, monitoring guidance, and computer models. By including the viewpoints of diverse clients and emphasizing collaboration, the Biodiversity Initiative supports informed natural resource management for the long-term sustainability of a wide range of resources.
10.2307/3536607|Tree voles (Arborimus spp.) are arboreal rodents that are endemic to the Pacific Northwest. Little is known about their population structure or population trends due to the lack of a reliable capture method suited to mark-recapture studies. We used a line transect approach to determine density of active Sonoma tree vole (A. pomo) nests in 6 stand-age categories in a managed forest landscape. Median density varied from 0 to 6.21 active nests/ha, with an increasing trend relative to stand age (P = 0.003). Nest tree diameter at breast height (P < 0.001) and nest height (P < 0.001) increased significantly with stand age. Nest placement, relative to the bole of the tree, also differed significantly (P = 0.045), with more nests being placed out on branches in older stand-age categories. We also monitored Sonoma tree vole nests to quantify the characteristics of nest dynamics. The mean proportion of nests that were occupied from 1 checking period to the next ranged from 0.4 to 0.6 in the different aged stands. Median persistence time of a nest was 28.6 months (95% CI = 25.8 to 34.8 months) and the probability of a nest persisting beyond 60 months was <0.1.
40856454|Bats spend most of their lives roosting, and how they spend their time affects their fitness. I studied the activity budgets of Townsend's Big-eared Bats (Corynorhinus townsendii) in a maternity roost and compared my results with those of 3 similar studies to identify generalizations that exist among species. I used an infrared camera to videotape bats in an attic in northeastern Oregon over a 24-h period once per week for 9 wk during the summer of 1999. In the lab, I used scan-sampling to document time spent in various behaviors. As reported for other species, in the 2 h before emergence and in the 2 h after the last return to the roost in the morning. Little seasonal variation occurred in the day-roosting activity budget, and this was explained partially by temperature, but not by week of data collection. Greater seasonal variation existed during night-roosting while lactating, with time spent resting decreasing and activity increasing as pups got older. When unattended at night, pups rested less than adults and increased time spent grooming as they developed. Solitary individuals, those in small clusters, and those on the periphery of large clusters were more active and rested less frequently than those in the interior of large clusters.
10.2307/3536507|Harbor seals (Phoca vitulina) were observed in the Columbia River from its mouth to Celilo Falls, 324 km upstream, during the 19th and early 20th centuries. Archaeological collections of mammal remains recovered from sites downstream of Celilo Falls contain bones and teeth of harbor seal and of unspecified phocid and pinniped. These remains represent pinnipeds procured from the Columbia River rather than ones traded inland from the coast. Harbor seals were in the lower Columbia River between about 10,000 and 6000 yr ago, and also after 1000 yr ago.
30131048|In the spring of 2006, fisheries observers identified 2 Green Sturgeon specimens in Alaska waters: 1 in the Bering Sea and 1 in the western Gulf of Alaska. These occurrences are noteworthy because the northern range limit for Green Sturgeon is poorly documented, and specimens encountered in northern latitudes could be either North American Green Sturgeon (A. medirostris) or Asian Sakhalin Sturgeon (A. mikadoi). The specimen collected in the Bering Sea was destroyed, but several morphological characteristics were determined from photographs. The specimen from the Gulf of Alaska was collected and preserved. Morphometric and meristic data from this specimen were compared to published ranges of A. medirostris and A. mikadoi, as well as the published record of a Green Sturgeon reported from the western Bering Sea in 1953. These comparisons show that the specimen collected in the Gulf of Alaska is A. medirostris and suggest that the specimen reported over 50 y ago from the western Bering Sea also may have been A. medirostris. Because the specimen recently collected in the eastern Bering Sea was destroyed, its specific identification could not be determined. These findings highlight the need for additional documentation of sturgeon in Alaskan waters.
10.2307/3536911|Breeding Bird Surveys between 1968 and 1990 indicate that populations of cowbirds were abundant and stable on National Forests in the Pacific Northwest. Walked surveys in 1993 confirmed high numbers in riparian zones on the Umatilla National Forest. Relative abundance of cowbirds was higher in grazed and ungrazed riparian habitats than in fragmented forest. The costs of administering the grazing program exceed revenues to the Forest Service. High numbers of cowbirds could be considered an additional grazing program cost.
40856453|In northern British Columbia, nests of the Marbled Murrelet (Brachyramphus marmoratus) were first reported in burrows at Marble Island (1901), Cox Island (1920), and Banks Island or Porcher Island (1921), but none were subsequently accepted, and the 1901 and 1920 nests were considered to be Ancient Murrelet (Synthliboramphus antiquus) nests. We collated and reconsidered available information on these 3 nests (including obscure literature, recently uncovered correspondence, and museum records) to re-evaluate their authenticity and clarify past literature, concluding that the 1920 nest should be considered the first possible but unverified nest of the Marbled Murrelet, whereas 1901 and 1921 nests were more convincingly dismissed as belonging to Ancient Murrelet and probably Rhinoceros Auklet (Cerorhinca monocerata), respectively. The 1901 nest also represented the first documented breeding of the Ancient Murrelet in British Columbia, actually at the Limestone Islands.
41811920|Black Bears (Ursus americanus) in southeastern Alaska forage intensively on seed pods and male and female catkins of Black Cottonwood (Populus tnchocarpa), often breaking many branches from the trees. We examined the relationship of tree damage to tree size and sex, and to content of selected nutrients in the catkins. Tree damage was related to tree girth: medium-size trees were more heavily damaged than small or large trees, possibly because more branches can easily be reached from a safe perch near the trunk. Overall, female trees were more heavily damaged than males. Foraging intensity was not clearly related to the content of important elements (N, P, K, Ca, C) in catkins and seed pods. Concentrated use of cottonwoods in the study area may occur because high human density offers some protection of small Black Bears from larger bears, and medium-sized cottonwoods are common in this recently deglaciated, earlysuccessional area.
10.2307/3536792|We describe the nests and eggs of 7 species of colonial birds that nested on Malheur Lake in Malheur National Wildlife Refuge, Oregon, in 1980 and 1981. All nests were constructed over water in stands of hardstem bulrush (Scirpus acutus). We compared nest measurements among species and found significant differences. Nest size was highly correlated with bird body mass. The heavier the bird, the larger the nest and the higher the nest crown was above water. Egg volume was also highly correlated with body mass. We found evidence of shell thinning and DDE residues in great egret eggs and low levels of pesticide residues in eggs of Franklin's Gull. We summarize all available DDE and shell thickness data from colonial bird eggs collected from Malheur Lake.
10.2307/3536610|The diet of Ring-billed gulls (Larus delawarensis) was determined from pellet analysis on Ninepipe National Wildlife Refuge, Charlo, Montana, during 1990 to 1992, and 1994. Results showed that small mammals were the most numerous prey found within pellets; however, species composition varied significantly. Voles were numerically the most abundant prey from the pellet analysis. Skulls were used to identify species, but paired bones yielded significantly higher values for numbers of prey eaten. For example, using pelves, humeri, femora, tibia-fibulae, or jaws yielded from 1.5 to 8.5 times more prey individuals than using the skull only. Soft-bodied earthworms and insects were likely under-represented in this analysis. Evidence from this dietary methodology suggests that ring-billed gulls were not a major predator on egg or nestling waterfowl and upland gamebirds. Thus, reducing gull numbers may not be warranted at this time.
4095786| Augmentation is a viable method of increasing the size of small populations if habitat quality is adequate. We examined a hierarchy of demographic responses to habitat quality, including individual nutritional condition, juvenile survival, adult fecundity, and adult survival to determine if the habitat of the Nooksack elk herd, a remnant elk population located in the northern Cascade Mountains of Washington, could support additional elk. Total ingesta-free body fat levels of lactating cow elk (11.5-13.6%), the most nutritionally challenged segment of the population, indicated that elk consumed diets at the high end of marginal quality. Juvenile survival during summer was moderate (0.66) relative to other elk populations, while annual adult survival was high (0.94). Pregnancy averaged 0.89, and early autumn calf:cow ratios ranged from 60  9 to 69  15 calves/100 cows. Levels of condition (approximately 56% of potential), juvenile survival (73% of potential), adult fecundity (99% of potential), and adult survival (equal to or greater than previously published survival rates) indicated habitat impacts only on the population vital rates most sensitive to nutritional stress in the Nooksack area. We conclude that the Nooksack area is capable of supporting additional elk, albeit at less than optimal levels of individual and population productivity. Further, because only a small portion of the Nooksack area that was used historically by elk is currently used, colonization of these areas used formerly by elk may also have the potential to increase numbers of elk in the Nooksack area. 
10.2307/3536630|Sixteen brown bears (Ursus arctos) were translocated an average of 148 km from the Copper River Delta, Alaska, in 1987. Of 13 bears that were radio collared, 6 returned to their original home range, 3 remained in the release area, and the final locations of 4 were unknown. Overall homing success was similar to that observed in interior Alaska; however, contrary to the findings of others, the return rate of males >3 yr old (2 of 5) was less than that of females >3 yr old (4 of 4). This may have been the result of a "vacuum" created by a higher harvest of bears in the release area, relative to the Copper River Delta, during the 5 yr prior to the study. The results of this study provide additional evidence that translocation of nuisance bears has a high probability of failure due to their strong homing instinct.
10.2307/3536585|Hoary marmots (Marmota caligata) observed on Mt. Cashmere in the eastern Washington Cascades showed a bimodal activity cycle in late summer. However, in mid-September above-ground time decreased and active periods became erratic. Individuals were widely dispersed and foraged alone until September, when distances between individuals decreased dramatically, most colony members began to forage in a large group, and social interactions became common. Feeding was the major above-ground activity for all age classes during August; in September lying at rest was the most time-consuming behavior for all age classes. Marmots spent less time foraging in September, but they fed more intensely than they had earlier in the summer. This shift in foraging behavior was presumably caused by a hormonal response to body temperature fluctuations in marmots prior to hibernation.
10.2307/3536509|Guano traps have been used to assess nightly and seasonal variation in the use of sites where insectivorous bats aggregate to roost and, for frugivorous pteropodids, to assess habitat use and seed dispersal. However, the utility of this technique to assess activity by insectivorous bats and potentially to determine habitat use and ultimately the role of bats in nutrient transfer in forest ecosystems has not been tested. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to evaluate the utility of this technique, with a focus on study areas with moderate to low densities of insectivorous bats, typical of most temperate forest systems. Over the course of 4352 guano trap-nights at 3 different study sites, we collected a total of only 5 fecal pellets. In the systems we studied, the guano-trap method we used does not capture enough pellets to enable an assessment of habitat use or nutrient movement by bats. Only by using larger traps, many more traps, and/or working in areas with much higher bat densities might this technique be useful.
43286422|Despite listing as a sensitive Species of Concern, the breeding status and biology of Flammulated Owls (Otus flammeolus = Psiloscops flammeolus) has been little studied in Montana. Compared to occurrence, breeding evidence is minimal. As of 2012, 664 records of Flammulated Owls existed in the Montana Natural Heritage Program database: 23 breeding and 641 occurrence records. From 2008 through 2012, we monitored 57 trees containing 131 cavities in 13 Flammulated Owl territories and documented 7 nests. We also documented the first tangible evidence of site fidelity by both sexes in Montana. Long-term, rigorous study of breeding biology and habitat is urgently needed to develop complete, accurate, and robust models for habitat management, and ultimately conservation of this migratory, forest-dwelling owl in Montana.
30135131|The Night Snake (Hypsiglena torquata) is a secretive snake that is rarely encountered. Subsequently, little is known about the ecology of this species. Since it was first collected in 1943 in Washington State, few (<40) specimens have been found. From May to October 2004 and 2005, 1 collected 121 specimens from 8 counties in eastern Washington State by road-cruising appropriate habitat. Snakes were collected crossing roads bisecting a variety of habitats including areas of talus (such as rocky canyons), oak savannah-woodlands, sagebrush-rabbit-brush flats, pine-fir forests, grasslands, and areas of agricultural development (cropland). Snakes were most often observed in areas with an abundance of talus, followed by oak savannah-woodlands, sagebrush-rabbitbrush flats, and to a much lesser extent pine-fir forests, grasslands, and croplands. Based upon my research, H. torquata is much more common in Washington than previous work has shown.
10.2307/3536731|The Oregon chub Oregonichthys crameri is an endangered floodplain minnow endemic to the Willamette River drainage in western Oregon. We determined age and growth of Oregon chub at 3 locations and the timing of spawning at 2 locations. We found that Oregon chub live much longer than previously thought (up to 9 y) and that most of the fish older than 5 y were females. We found strong relationships between somatic growth and otolith (lapillus) growth within populations and considerable variation among populations. Mature fish were primarily 2 y old, and all fish >40 mm long had gonads that were developing or mature. Oregon chub spawned from mid-May through early August with peak activity in July. Juveniles that hatched prior to mid-June were not found in October, suggesting reduced survival of early hatched fish.
41300890|We studied consumption of free water by a sample of 7 Red Tree Voles (Arborimus longicaudus) maintained in captivity on a natural diet of Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) foliage.Mean consumption of free water by individual voles was 0.016  0.001 ml/g/d, which is much lower than has been reported for most other species of voles. The small amount of free water consumed per day suggests that Tree Voles need little access to free water and can obtain nearly all of their water from their diet of conifer needles, which is low in caloric value but high in water content.
10.2307/3536626|We inventoried amphibians and reptiles on 5 U.S. Naval holdings located on the Kitsap and Toandos Peninsulas, western Washington. Eight amphibians, including an introduced anuran, and 4 reptiles were detected, resulting in 87 new locality records. Six species were found on the Toandos Peninsula where no previous records exist. Of the species that historically or currently occur on the Kitsap Peninsula, 1 amphibian and 3 reptiles were not detected. Aquatic funnel trapping yielded the most detections for lentic-breeding amphibians, and plastic cover-sheets were best for reptiles. Wooden coverboards were not effective for sampling amphibians or reptiles.
10.2307/3536829|The number of spectacled eiders (Somateria fischeri) nesting on two study areas near the Kashunuk River, on the central Yukon-Kuskokwim (Y-K) Delta, Alaska, declined by over 75% in the last 20 years. Nesting densities have remained low, but have not significantly declined since 1985. There has been no decrease in the reproductive effort of individual females as indicated by average clutch sizes. There has been a significant decline in the proportion of nests located on islands on one of the two study areas. Nesting success declined significantly during the 1970's. Success was not monitored in recent years, but has likely been low, based on the poor nesting success and declining numbers of cackling Canada geese (Branta canadensis minima) and black brant (B. bernicla nigricans) nesting on the area. Nest predation by arctic foxes (Alopex lagopus) severely limited the productivity of cackling Canada geese, and foxes were likely the major predators of eider nests. Persistent high predation rates may lead to local extirpation in highly philopatric species such as eiders.
40856476|We examined key factors thought to influence Mourning Dove (Zenaida macroura) nest density (nests/ha) in Blue Oak woodlands (Quercus douglasii), riparian woodlands (Salix spp., Populus fremontii), and commercial walnut (Juglans spp.) orchards in northern California (north of UTM: Zone 51N, 324397E, 4207703N, datum WGS84). We hypothesized that nest density could be used to characterize the suitability of habitats for breeding Mourning Doves because nest success has often been shown to not vary predictably by habitat type. Because weather does affect nest success, we examined the influence of spring rainfall and ambient temperature, as well as habitat on nest density. We recorded all Mourning Dove nests found in surveys conducted every 3rd wk from mid-April to mid-August, which encompassed the nesting season, in each of 6 to 10 randomly placed survey plots in each of 4 study areas during 1992-1995, with a supplemental survey during September 1994. Survey date, habitat type, and spring weather affected period nest density (PND; mean number of all active nests/ha present during any given survey); and habitat type and weather affected cumulative nest density (CND; total number of different nests produced annually/ha). Seasonally, PND was relatively low in April, high from May to July, lower in August, and zero by September. Riparian woodlands tended to support higher PND and CND compared to walnut orchards and Blue Oak woodlands in that order. This effect was pronounced during the warm-dry springs of 1992 and 1994, but was not always evident during the relatively cool-wet springs of 1993 and 1995 (weather characterized relative to April mean high temperature and March to May mean rainfall). The best predictive model (lowest AIC C ) for PND contained a quadratic trend with survey timing, and effects due to habitat type, high temperature and rainfall deviations from long-term average, number of rain-days, and tree density. The best model for CND contained habitat, temperature, rainfall, rain-days, and tree density. Nest success increased at a declining rate as nest density increased in Blue Oak and riparian woodlands, demonstrating probable density-dependent resource or mortality limits on nest success that did not affect nest density within the ranges we recorded. Nest density measures should be useful to land managers in assessing responses of nesting Mourning Doves to available nesting habitats and local spring weather.
10.2307/3536741|Three marbled murrelet tree nests were discovered in the Carmanah-Walbran region on the west coast of Vancouver Island, British Columbia in 1992. All nests were located by climbing trees in an area where murrelets were active and were unoccupied when found. The nests were in Sitka spruce (Picea sitchensis) and western hemlock (Tsuga heterophylla) trees on large (> 35 cm dbh), moss-covered limbs that appeared accessible by the birds only from below. The nest trees were the largest trees within a 25-m radius and all sites were located in valley-bottom old-growth (> 200 yr) forest. All previously known murrelet nests in British Columbia had been found in Sitka spruce trees.
4095775|We identified the stomach contents of fishers (Martes pennanti) collected during winter between 1989 and 1993 from throughout British Columbia. Eighteen types of mammalian and avian prey were found in 256 stomachs. The most commonly occurring species of prey were snowshoe hares (Lepus americanus), red squirrels (Tamiasciurus hudsonicus), and southern red-backed voles (Clethrionomys gapperi). The diets of fishers varied between sexes; female fishers consumed small prey more frequently than did males. This difference in diets is likely related to the extreme sexual dimorphism of fishers and perhaps differences in habitats where males and females forage. The composition and breadth of the winter diets have implications for understanding habitat relationships of fishers.
10.2307/3536823|As part of a study on movements of western toads, we used several measures to test the effects of a plastic belt that we used to attach 1.85 g radio transmitters around the waist of toads. Results from laboratory videography of 3 captive toads suggested this method had no significant effect on their behavior (feeding strikes, activity level). In the field, the radio belt had relatively little effect on toad behavior in water or on land. Radios were attached to 38 toads, including 6 amplexing pairs; all 6 pairs continued amplexus after attachment of a transmitter. Post-breeding toads traveled up to 430 m per day and moved up to 2.4 km from the breeding pond. A total of 26 toads retained their radio for >2 wk. On 6 occasions the belt was shed by the animal, as designed: 4 belts corroded and released after about 3 months and 2 others released after the toads out-grew the belt. Seven of the 26 toads developed skin sores, although treatment of the sores generally resulted in healing. This method worked well on western toads inhabiting forested habitats, but it may not work as well on other species or in other habitats.
4095790|The largest Pacific Northwest population of bald eagles occurs in the urbanized Puget Sound. Most research and management recommendations for bald eagles have been done for forested or rural habitats. In Washington, bald eagles have been nesting in residential developments and other disturbed habitats. As required by State laws, bald eagle management plans were developed for private landowners planning on developing or clearing areas within bald eagle territories. We tested the potential effectiveness of the management plans by comparing occupancy, activity, and productivity between 30 nests with plans and 332 nests without plans. We found no significant differences between territories with and without a management plan. For another 37 nests with management plans, we found no significant change between present productivity of each nest and productivity prior to human disturbance or development near the nest area. The bald eagle plans appear to be effective in mitigating the potentially negative effects of development. Management plans prevented decreases in productivity, occupancy, and activity for Puget Sound bald eagles. Although the management plan process appears to work in the short term, there are limitations. The small core buffer areas (100 m) may not manage for long-term nest stand viability and integrity.
43286675|Growth, reproduction, and diet of the Yellow Irish Lord (Hemilepidotus jordani) were examined and compared between 2 adjacent geographical regions of Alaska, the eastern Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands, where its biology is not well understood. The Yellow Irish Lord is the most common member of the genus Hemilepidotus encountered during Alaska Fisheries Science Center bottom-trawl surveys of these regions. Based on our data, there was no significant difference in sizes of Yellow Irish Lords caught between regions. The von Bertalanffy growth models fitted to length-at-age data, however, indicate that male and female Yellow Irish Lords in the Aleutian Islands grew more slowly than those in the eastern Bering Sea. Histological assessment of ovary condition indicated that Yellow Irish Lords from both regions appear to spawn once annually during the summer. Relationships between size (length and weight) and fecundity between the 2 regions were significantly different, with Yellow Irish Lords from the Aleutian Islands being more fecund. Diet analysis showed that the Yellow Irish Lord is a benthic predator and their summer diets in both regions consist of a wide variety of prey, but appear to favor benthic crustaceans, particularly abundant crab species. However, the largest individuals appear to have more opportunities for piscivory in the Aleutian Islands. It appears that at least some variation in the life-history aspects of this species exists between these regions. This information may provide a scientific basis for developing management strategies of the Yellow Irish Lord in Alaskan waters.
30136797|Harbor Seals (Phoca vitulina) are the most abundant and widespread seal species in Washington State. Most seal haul-out sites are unavailable at high tide, hence abundance estimates are conducted at low tide when it is commonly accepted that most seals are hauled-out. On sites unaffected by tides, however, it is less clear whether tide level has an effect on seal abundance. We counted hauled-out Harbor Seals from sunrise to sunset on floating water-breakers at Semiahmoo Marina, Washington, to examine the effect of tides on haul-out behavior. Because haul-out behavior is affected by several factors, we conducted mixed-factor analyses that included tide level, tidal current, time of season, and time of day as fixed factors, and several meteorological variables as random factors. The number of hauled-out Harbor Seals was significantly associated with tide level, time of season, and time of day. Results suggest that seal counts in Semiahmoo Marina should be made late in the pupping season and early in the afternoon at moderately positive tide levels to achieve the highest counts. They also indicate that tide was associated with seal numbers unrelated to site availability because seal numbers were positively related to tide height, a finding opposite to studies at tidal haul-out sites.
41811917|Herbivores have traditionally been categorized as either dietary generalists or specialists based on what they eat or what they are capable of eating. Shipley and others (2009) argued that specialization should also be based on the limitations imposed on an animal by genetics, physiology, and behavior. They categorized herbivores along a specialist-generalist continuum, with specialists defined as facultative or obligatory, based on seasonal or regional niche breadth. The North American Porcupine (Erethizon dorsatum) has traditionally been considered a generalist herbivore. However, Porcupines often function as dietary specialists consuming a difficult and narrow diet seasonally, regionally, or individually. Porcupines possess physiological and morphological adaptations to consume a difficult diet and do so at a rate higher than other herbivores. Porcupines should therefore be reclassified as facultative specialists. Additional research is required, however, to better understand the degree of specialization exhibited by Porcupines throughout their range. Comparative studies of diet selection across habitats will provide insight into regional and seasonal dietary specialization, and captive studies are required to understand the physiological mechanisms used by Porcupines to consume difficult foods. Documenting inter-population and individual differences in the ability to metabolize plant secondary metabolites will provide insight into the ecology of Porcupines, and will assist in managing potential impacts of Porcupines on native flora as they expand into new habitats.
10.2307/3536586|Possible locations (189) of Washington ground squirrel colonies in Washington and Oregon were identified from the literature, state databases, museum collections, and converstions with local researchers and residents. In all, 80 confirmed and 7 probable colonies were found at 179 examined sites. Most colonies were small; the largest were on protected public lands. Squirrels were gone from 68 previously reported sites, and 25 additional sites were rated as highly vulnerable to extinction. Cultivation seems most responsible for range reduction. At 13 locations, 23 habitat variables were measured at 2 randomly chosen sites within a colony and also in a paired non-colony area. Although absolute values for some variables varied greatly between the 13 paired locations, Wilcoxon tests on the differences in the variables at each area showed that squirrels inhabited sites that had significantly greater grass and forb cover, deeper soil, weaker soil, and soil with less clay. These results suggest that food availability and soil characteristics are most important in determining where squirrel colonies are located within the habitats currently available to them.
10.2307/3536745|We discovered 3 active marbled murrelet (Brachyramphus marmoratus) nests in the same coast redwood (Sequoia sempervirens) tree between 1991 and 1994. The nest tree was in an old-growth redwood-Douglas fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) forest in Big Basin Redwoods State Park, Santa Cruz County, California. Two of the nests, situated on different branches, were monitored intermittently through fledging in 1991 and 1992. The 1994 nest was in the 1991 nest cup. Eggshell fragments with indications of predation were found under the nest tree in 1993, suggesting that the tree may have been used for at least 4 consecutive years. One fragment encompassed almost two-thirds of a complete egg and is described here. Below-canopy flights were common within the nesting stand, but were concentrated along repeatedly used flight routes. Adults accessed nest sites by flying for at least 100 m through the canopy along these routes. Fledging occurred on 3 July 1991 and on 7 June 1992, 19 and 18 min after sunset, respectively. At fledging, murrelets neither vocalized nor behaved conspicuously. Fledging occurred on the first day in which the nestling had lost all or nearly all of its concealing down. On both occasions, the nestling fledged alone and flew a route not used by the adults.
41300898|Formerly landlocked Coho Salmon (Oncorhynchus kisutch) juveniles (age 2) were monitored following release into the free-flowing Cowlitz River to determine if they remained in the river or resumed seaward migration. Juvenile Coho Salmon were tagged with a radio transmitter (30 fish) or Floy tag (1050 fish) and their behavior was monitored in the lower Cowlitz River. We found that 97% of the radio-tagged fish remained in the Cowlitz River beyond the juvenile outmigration period, and the number of fish dispersing downstream decreased with increasing distance from the release site. None of the tagged fish returned as spawning adults in the 2 y following release. We suspect that fish in our study failed to migrate because they exceeded a threshold in size, age, or physiological status. Tagged fish in our study primarily remained in the Cowlitz River, thus it is possible that these fish presented challenges to juvenile salmon migrating through the system either directly by predation or indirectly by competition for food or habitat. Given these findings, returning formerly landlocked Coho Salmon juveniles to the free-flowing river apparently provided no benefit to the anadromous population. These findings have management implications in locations where landlocked salmon have the potential to interact with anadromous species of concern.
10.2307/3536898|Artificial cover provides a potentially useful survey method for reptiles, but little quantitative information exists on the relative attractiveness to snakes of cover-objects made of different materials. From March to November 1997 and 1998 we sampled snakes using artificial cover at 5 sites on the southern Gulf Islands, British Columbia. Each station consisted of 3 cover-objects (dimensions: 0.6  0.6 m) arranged either along transects or dispersed throughout suitable habitat. Each cover-object at individual stations was made of a different material: black asphalt roofing; unpainted, corrugated tin roofing; or plywood. We established 30 cover-object stations at 2 primary sites subjected to intensive study and 55 stations at 3 secondary sites inspected less frequently. Each of the 4 species of snakes known to occur on the islands used our cover-objects: Thamnophis ordinoides and T. elegans used cover-objects at all sites, T. sirtalis at 4 sites, and Contia tenuis at 2 sites. We caught 33 individual C. tenuis 89 times under the covers: 67% of the captures took place under asphalt roofing, 28% under tin roofing, and 5% under plywood. Most observations of C. tenuis under both artificial and natural cover-objects occurred from March to early June and from late September to early November in 1997 and 1998. Thamnophis ordinoides was the most commonly encountered species under artificial cover with 237 captures (114 individuals) at the primary sites and 1413 captures at the secondary sites. The snakes used asphalt and tin roofing most frequently at the secondary sites (43% of captures each), but their pattern of cover use ranged from a preference for asphalt roofing to no apparent preference at the primary sites. Thamnophis sirtalis and T. elegans occurred most frequently under asphalt and tin roofing with only a few captures under plywood (8% and 7%, respectively). Placements of artificial cover provided an efficient method for locating and recapturing snakes, particularly the secretive species C. tenuis. The relatively high heat conductivity of the asphalt and tin roofing most likely enhanced their attractiveness to both C. tenuis and Thamnophis spp. at our study sites.
10.2307/3536774|Harbor seals were observed on 32 haulout sites in Oregon during aerial counts conducted from 1975 to 1983; 90% were seen on 14 sites. The greatest number of seals seen on a haulout was 985 recorded at Cape Arago in July 1982. Counts of harbor seals in 1982 and 1983 were 38.6% greater than counts from 1975 to 1980. These data indicate an increase in numbers of harbor seals in Oregon, an increase corroborated by other information, namely, lower counts made before 1975 and increased use of new haulout sites since 1975. Between 1975 and 1983, numbers within bays increased, whereas numbers on most offshore rocks remained somewhat constant. Decreased harassment and mortality since implementation of the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972 doubtless allowed harbor seals to increase in numbers and to reoccupy protected haulout sites in bays.
40856471|We investigated population characteristics, microhabitat use, and activity patterns of Phrynosoma (Tapaja) douglasii (Pygmy Short-horned Lizard) within shrub-steppe habitat in Washington. Females were significantly larger (and more commonly encountered) than were males. Overall, lizards preferred lithosol microhabitat, which is characterized by rocky soils and sparse vegetation. Age, sex, and season, however, affected how lizards used lithosol, loamy, and ecotone microhabitats. Lizard age also affected daily, monthly, and seasonal activity. Adult activity peaked in June, yearling activity in April, and neonate activity in July. During spring and fall, adult activity peaked when daytime temperatures were highest, whereas in summer, the activity peak occurred in early morning and evening. In contrast, neonates remained active during temperature maximums in summer and throughout the day in fall. Although lizards preferred relatively open terrain, they were found closer to shrubs than expected, based on comparisons with random sites. Our results underscore the importance of seasonal variation and age in habitat use and activity patterns of P. (Tapaja) douglasii.
40856475|Townsend's Big-eared Bat (Corynorhinus townsendii) is a species of conservation concern for many states and provinces. However, little is known about key demographic parameters, such as survival, for this species due to its sensitivity to human disturbance. This species can also be vulnerable to injuries from wing bands; the most commonly applied marking technique used in the past to estimate survival in bats. During the US Fish and Wildlife Service's Bat Banding Program (1932-1972), CM Senger banded 1,346 Townsend's Big-eared Bats at 3 major cave systems in Washington during 1964-1975, and continued to recapture banded bats until 1980. I applied current mark-recapture techniques to retrospectively estimate survival of hibernating Townsend's Big-Eared Bats banded by CM Senger. I also investigated sex, time, and trend effects on survival and capture probabilities of these 3 populations of bats using Cormack-Jolly-Seber (CJS) open models and the modeling capabilities of program MARK. For each location, estimates of annual survival and capture probabilities varied somewhat by sex and ranged from 0.54 to 0.68 for males and 0.60 to 0.67 for females. During the banding study, band injuries were noted and populations declined at all locations potentially violating assumptions of the CJS model. However, the dataset from which these estimates were derived is likely to be the most complete and wellmaintained dataset in the Bat Banding Program files. Resulting annual survival estimates from these data were relatively precise and modeling provided evidence of time and trend effects and differences in survival between the sexes. These results provide historical, post hoc estimates of an important life-history parameter for this species of bat wintering in caves in 3 localized areas of Washington State.
43286427|We collated 25-30 observations of family groups of Ancient Murrelets (Synthliboramphus antiquus) between 23 May and 25 July 1988-2011 from southwest Vancouver Island, British Columbia, to central Oregon, 450-970 km south of the nearest breeding colony on Haida Gwaii, British Columbia. We proposed 2 hypotheses in explanation of the presence of these groups this far south: (1) rapid long-distance movements by swimming, assisted by strong currents, from colonies on Haida Gwaii (" rapid transport" hypothesis); or (2) undetected local breeding by small numbers of pairs at nearby southern locations ("southern nesting" hypothesis). Far-south groups were generally consistent with relatively long, southern, offshore movements from rearing areas in northern Queen Charlotte Sound, initially with more rapid southward transport by relatively strong (approximately 0.25 m/s) shelf-break currents and strong westerly winds off Vancouver Island in early summer, followed by movement inshore, supporting the rapid transport hypothesis. Nesting was reported at Carroll Island, Washington, in 1924, but apparently by an isolated pair. No evidence of breeding was recorded during seabird colony surveys on the southwest coast of Vancouver Island in 1967-1998 or on the northwest coast of Washington in 1959-1986, although most surveys were conducted June-July, too late for optimal detection of Ancient Murrelets, and some islands on the Washington coast were incompletely examined. Support for the southern nesting hypothesis is lacking but appropriately timed surveys of islands off the northwest Olympic Peninsula are needed to document any limited nesting in this area.
10.2307/3536720|Standardized surveys for abundance and distribution of marbled murrelets (Brachyramphus marmoratus) at sea from 1992 to 1999 were analyzed using 100-m-wide strip transects for a 106-km portion of the central Oregon coast from the Siletz River to the Siuslaw River. Densities showed a significant decline beginning in 1996, with no increase thereafter. Densities decreased in both near-shore and offshore strata <3 km from shore. Population estimates of roughly 9,750 birds (95% CI = 4,030 to 14,870) in 1992-93 decreased to 4,100 (95% CI = 870 to 6440) in 1997-99. There may have been a decrease in abundance in southern Oregon, but there was no evidence of change in northern Oregon. Removal of nesting habitat during the 1980s, low overwinter survival, and poor productivity associated with decreased marine productivity are possible factors contributing to the decline.
30135132|Capture rates of 3 trap types were compared at 5 sites in and around Portland, Oregon, USA: Sherman traps, custom-made steel-mesh traps, and pitfall traps. Simpson and Shannon diversity indices were calculated for various combinations of trap types and compared for differences. Sherman and mesh traps also were evaluated for mortality rates before and after the use of a rain shield during the rainy winter months. Of the 5 species of small mammals caught in all 3 types of traps, pitfalls were the most effective trap, followed by Sherman traps, with mesh traps a very distant third. Sherman traps significantly outperformed mesh traps overall when compared for larger species that were not contained by pitfall traps. Different combinations of trap types yielded significantly different Simpson and Shannon diversity indices, with pitfalls having the highest measures for small mammals, and a combination of Sherman and pitfall traps having the highest measures when considering both larger and smaller mammals. Use of rain shields with Sherman and mesh traps did not affect mortality rates. However, mortality was affected by trap type, with significantly higher death rates in mesh than Sherman traps.
4095774|To determine which northwestern naturalists solved the mystery of where marbled murrelets (Brachyramphus marmoratus) nest, we reviewed all historical records of "breeding" (including nests, eggs, and chicks found at inland locations) to determine all 1st breeding records. The 1st breeding records were in coastal coniferous old-growth forests; the 1st inland chick was found without a nest (Minerva, Oregon-1918), and the 1st inland egg was found without a nest (Saxon, Washington-1925). The 1st confirmed record of a ground nest with an incubating adult was found above tree line at 580 m elevation (Chichagof Island, Alaska-1931). The 1st and 2nd confirmed records of old-growth tree nests were found near the ocean when a dead adult with a brood patch and broken eggshells were found amid a felled western hemlock (Tsuga heterophylla; Masset, British Columbia-1953) and 2 chicks fell to the ground during the felling of a western red cedar (Thuja plicata; Holberg, British Columbia-1967). We consider that the mystery was solved between 1918 and 1967 and collectively credit 1st breeding records to EJ Booth, W Feyer, RD Harris, AB Johnston, ER Osburn, and S Warburton Jr. We also identify other important findings that helped solve the mystery of the marbled murrelet including: 1st recorded observation of murrelets flying inland from the coast (Sitka, Alaska-1896); 1st shelled egg from an oviduct of an adult female collected at sea (Howkan, Alaska-1897); 1st recorded far-inland record of flying murrelets (Glacier, Washington-1905); 1st accepted well-described tree nest (Douglas-fir Pseudotsuga menziesii; Big Basin Redwoods State Park, California-1974); 1st accepted well-described ground nest (Barren Islands, Alaska-1978); 1st long-billed murrelet (B. perdix) probable ground nest (Komandorskiye Islands, Russia-about 1891); 1st long-billed murrelet confirmed tree nest (Okhotsk, Russia-1961); and 1st Kittlitz's murrelet (B. brevirostris) confirmed ground nest (Pavloff Mountain, Alaska-1913). Since the 1970s, solution of the mystery has continued with discoveries of the 1st confirmed cavity or crevice nest (Port Chatham, Alaska-1981), 1st confirmed cliff nest (Perry Island, Alaska-1989), and 1st confirmed nest in a deciduous tree (red alder Alnus rubra; Toba Inlet, British Columbia-2000).
10.2307/3536793|The Pribilof shrew (Sorex hydrodromus), a species that has been considered for listing under the Endangered Species Act (DOI 1985), was studied at St. Paul Island, Alaska, during the summers of 1986 and 1987. We found the shrew to be distributed widely at relatively high densities within vegetative communities dominated by tall plants, particularly beach rye (Elymus arenarius), bluegrass (Poa eminens), wild celery (Angelica lucida), and sage (Artemesia arctica). Plant associations supporting shrews in summer occupied nearly 40 km<sup>2</sup> on St. Paul, and no immediate threats were found to the species or to most habitat areas. No shrews were found on St. George, the second large island in the Pribilof group.
10.2307/3536564|A typescript of a heretofore unpublished manuscript by John K. Townsend on the birds of the Lower Columbia River region is presented with interpretative comments. Townsend and his companion, Thomas Nuttall, were among the first naturalists to visit the region. In this account, Townsend describes birds seen and collected while based at Warrior Point, near the confluence of the Willamette and Columbia rivers (at the northern end of Sauvies Island, Columbia County, Oregon), and at Fort Vancouver (located at what is now Vancouver, Clark County, Washington) between 16 September 1834 and 30 December 1836, with the exception of the winter of 1834-1835 which was spent in Hawaii. The account provides a more detailed description of the birds of the region than provided in other writings by Townsend. Although it contains numerous errors and also nomenclature that is not always easy to interpret, the account shows some of the changes in the avifauna since that time. For example, it is clear that the trumpeter swan (Cygnus buccinator) and yellow-billed cuckoo (Coccyzus americanus), now virtually absent from the area, were more common during Townsend's time. He also comments on the presence of sharp-tailed grouse (Tympanuchus phasianellus) and black-billed magpies (Pica pica) in the vicinity of Fort Vancouver, neither of which occur there now.
10.2307/3536545|Marten (Martes americana) use of successional forest stages in north-central Washington was determined during winter by counting marten tracks along 65 transects in 6 different forest stages. Red squirrel (Tamiasciurus hudsonicus) tracks and middens were counted and small rodents were trapped to determine association of marten activity with successional stages used by these species. Marten frequented older aged (82 years old) Engelmann spruce (Picea engelmannii) / subalpine fir (Abies lasiocarpa) and lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta) forests where voles (Microtus spp. and Clethrionomys spp.) and red squirrel middens were available. Younger-aged (43 years old) forests were used infrequently by marten. Mature and old-growth forests are important habitats for marten, providing voles for prey during critical winter periods. For these reasons, mature and old-growth stands should be managed for marten.
4095776|A paucity of data exists on the occurrence, distribution, and abundance of small mammal communities in southwestern Alaska. To add to the understanding of these communities we conducted a comprehensive small mammal survey in southwestern Alaska. We trapped small mammals along the Goodnews River in Togiak National Wildlife Refuge from 26 June to 5 September 1996. Objectives of our study were to determine what small mammal species occur in the Goodnews River area, to determine species distribution in 4 representative habitats during 3 time periods, and to determine ideal time periods to trap small mammals in order to maximize the diversity of species encountered and the number of specimens captured. In 3600 trap-nights we captured 468 specimens including masked shrew (Sorex cinereus), pygmy shrew (S. hoyi), Alaska tiny shrew (S. yukonicus), tundra shrew (S. tundrensis), tundra vole (Microtus oeconomus), red-backed vole (Clethrionomys rutilus), Greenland collared lemming (Dicrostonyx groenlandicus), and brown lemming (Lemmus trimucronatus). The pygmy shrew, Alaska tiny shrew, Greenland collared lemming, and brown lemming are the 1st representatives of these species from the region to be placed in a museum collection. The willow habitat supported the greatest number of specimens captured (n = 170), while the wet tundra habitat yielded the greatest number of species captured (n = 4). The fall trap period (26 August to 5 September) yielded the greatest number of specimens captured (n = 229), while the spring (26 June to 6 July) and summer trap periods (26 July to 5 August) yielded greatest species diversity. Findings of rare and uncommon species illustrate the need to conduct additional surveys in the region.
4095764|We caught Myotis lucifugus, M. yumanensis, M. volans, M. evotis/keenii, M. californicus, and Lasionycteris noctivagans in mist nets at Mt. Cain in coastal British Columbia during 1996-1998. We analyzed their feces and determined the percent frequency of occurrence of different prey groups. Bats consumed prey from 9 prey groups. Diets varied significantly between M. californicus and M. lucifugus, but there was substantial overlap of the principal prey groups consumed by all species of bats. These principal prey groups were Diptera, Lepidoptera, Neuroptera, and Hymenoptera. Diets were similar between elevations and among seasons for both M. californicus and M. lucifugus.
30135115|The 25,000 km of shoreline in southeast Alaska was surveyed for waterbirds by fixed-wing aircraft in summer and winter during the period 1997 to 2002. A ground/boat survey double sampled 20% of the summer habitat and 5% of the winter habitat to adjust and enhance the air survey. The most abundant species during the summer surveys, with visibility correction factors applied, were gulls (Larus spp.; 306,200, CV = 0.004), scoters (Melanitta spp.; 185,700, CV = 0.004), and Harlequin Duck (Histrionicus histrionicus; 34,640, CV = 0.03). The most abundant species observed during the winter surveys were goldeneyes (Bucephala islandica and B. clangula; 121,920, CV = 0.01), gulls (105,000, CV = 0.01), Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos; 98,090, CV = 0.01), scoters (77,300, CV - 0.01), Harlequin Duck (54,540, CV = 0.02), Bufflehead (Bucephala albeola; 46,840, CV = 0.03), and mergansers (Mergus spp.; 39,940, CV = 0.02). The variance estimates did not include uncertainty about the visibility correction factors. We observed 2.4 times as many scoters in summer as in winter and surmise they were sub-adults, failed breeders, and adult males which had deserted females on the breeding grounds. Complete shoreline coverage provided precise estimates for the abundant species. Meaningful population values could be generated for very specific subunits selected after completion of the survey because all shoreline was covered and all observations were tied to a geographic location.
10.2307/3536537|The white-headed woodpecker (Picoides albolarvatus) is strongly associated with old-growth ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) forest, a degraded and increasingly uncommon habitat in the Pacific Northwest. We investigated the nest-site habitat use of this species by collecting vegetation data at 21 known nest sites in the eastern Cascades of Washington, 12 of which we found in 1999. Sixteen of 17 (94%) nests in the ponderosa pine vegetation zone were in the 72% of the zone that occurred below 1219 m, and 15 (88%) nests were on slopes of <20% (which comprised 48% of the zone); the total area characterized by both slopes <20% and elevation below 1219 m was 181,664 ha or 33.6% of the vegetation zone. Most (16 of 21) nests were in ponderosa pines and 81% (17 of 21) were in snags. The nest snags and trees were generally large, with a mean diameter at breast height of 51.5 cm (s<sub>x</sub> = 5.13). The mean height of nest snags and trees was 12.6 m (s<sub>x</sub> = 2.33), and the mean height of the nest cavity entrance was 5.8 m (s<sub>x</sub> = 1.37). Compared to random sites located <1 km from each nest, nest sites were characterized by a greater abundance, size, and basal area of large trees and snags, primarily ponderosa pines. Management of habitat for this species should include retention of 6 to 8 large snags/0.8 ha and 8 to 10 large trees/0.8 ha in the immediate vicinity of nesting areas. Habitat requirements at the home range scale should be investigated.
40856474|Very little is known about the social behavior of Heather Voles (Phenacomys intermedius), mainly because they are difficult to trap and maintain in captivity. We were able to maintain individuals in the laboratory and observe dyadic interactions among adult males and females, as well as related and unrelated juveniles, in a neutral arena. Overall, Heather Voles were very docile compared to other microtine species observed in captivity. There were no amicable behaviors observed, and the majority of encounters consisted of neutral egocentric actions. Males and females showed very similar levels of aggression in intrasexual encounters, although encounters between males contained more overt fighting behaviors. Male-female encounters contained the most aggressive behaviors (especially chasing), with a large proportion of those behaviors likely being the male attempting to copulate with the female, and the female resisting. No differences in aggressive behaviors were observed between related and unrelated juveniles.
40856459|We examined patterns of size-associated morphological variation within the Red Tree Vole (Arborimus longicaudus) for the purposes of 1) identifying differences between the Red Tree Vole and the Dusky Tree Vole (A. l. silvicola), a putative subspecies of the Red Tree Vole; and 2) examining spatial patterns of morphological variation across the species' range. Our results illustrate subtle, but significant, morphological differences across the boundary that has been proposed to delimit the ranges of the Dusky Tree Vole and Red Tree Vole. However, the morphological characters examined have virtually no diagnostic utility for distinguishing between subspecies. We also performed a series of linear regressions that revealed correlations between morphological variation and latitude. Ultimately, these findings indicated that morphological variation in Red Tree Voles is in good agreement with Bergmann's Rule and Allen's Rule, 2 well-established ecographic principles that dictate relationships between environmental temperatures and morphological attributes. Because our analyses do not demonstrate strong differences between tree vole subspecies, we encourage future analyses of variation in pelage coloration and genetic structure to unequivocally determine the Dusky Tree Vole's status.
4501967|The sand roller, Percopsis transmontana, is endemic and considered rare in the lower Columbia River drainage, including the Willamette River and its tributaries. Historical records in the Willamette Basin are scarce. In 2005, we surveyed historical and some recently documented locations to determine the current distribution of sand rollers in the Willamette River basin. Sand rollers were found at 41% of the locations sampled, including most Willamette River subbasins. Sand rollers preferred slow-water habitats in low gradient streams and were most frequently associated with roots, other large wood, and undercut banks over sand or gravel substrates. Sand rollers were more common at locations containing only native fishes; larger numbers were collected at locations where nonnative fish were absent. Infrequent reporting of this species is probably related to its secretive daytime behavior and to inefficient gear, rather than to actual rarity.
4501965|The influence of urban development on populations of amphibians has received a significant amount of attention in the recent literature. However, few studies have attempted to obtain demographic data on amphibians in urban landscapes. To assess the influence of urbanization on amphibian life histories, we collected demographic and phenologic data on an urban population of the California tiger salamander (Ambystoma californiense) in Sonoma County, California. This population breeds in a single isolated vernal pool nested in a mosaic of urban land uses. We used drift fences with pitfall traps to capture adults migrating to and from the pool over the course of 3 breeding seasons. We estimated the breeding adults at between 65 and 107 annually, which was somewhat surprising given that only 17.5% of the grassland habitat surrounding the pool is currently undeveloped. The study population had similar temporal patterns of migration activity among years. Rainfall triggered migration to the breeding pool, and males remained at the pool longer than females. Migration activity began in November, but most breeding adults were captured in December and January, and captures in February were rare. The migration pattern associated with pool depth showed a tri-modal distribution; however, minimum pool depth for breeding occurred when the pool was approximately half full to completely full. Finally, we were able to stimulate colonization by gophers of areas near the breeding pool by constructing large mounds of soil. Our trapping records indicate that some salamanders over-summered in these areas where no suitable upland burrows existed prior to mound construction. Although developed landscapes are less than optimal for the long-term conservation of this species, our study shows that populations may persist with some degree of adjacent development.
10.2307/3536742|We summarized data from 2,479 intensive 2-hr morning surveys and 950 general surveys (< 2 hr duration) between 1988 and 1994 to determine the distribution of marbled murrelets (Brachyramphus marmoratus) in mature and old-growth forest stands on the Siskiyou National Forest of southwestern Oregon. Marbled murrelets were detected on 449 of these surveys. Murrelets were found in Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) or coast redwood (Sequoia sempervirens) stands within the western hemlock (Tsuga heterophylla) vegetation zone on the western part of the Forest. Murrelets were not detected in the mixed conifer / mixed evergreen zone on the eastern part of the Forest. This zone, which extends from 20-60 km inland, is drier and has smaller trees than the western hemlock vegetation zone. The distribution of murrelets on the Siskiyou National Forest may be limited by the availability of trees with suitable nesting limbs.
40983223|Barred Owls (Strix varia) recently expanded their range to include western North America and evidently are competing with federally threatened Northern Spotted Owls (S. occidentalis camina). To help protect Spotted Owls, the US Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) is considering conducting a 3-to 10-y study in which as many as 2150 to 4650 Barred Owls would be killed and, possibly, carrying out long-term management of Barred Owls (Livezey 2010). To assist in these globally precedent-setting considerations, I present information concerning how frequently range expansions of North American birds and other factors may precipitate similar management issues in the near future. A total of 111 bird species (19.5%) recently expanded their breeding ranges into at least 1 new state or province. Fourteen species expanded their ranges into more states and provinces (range = 13-46) than did Barred Owls (n = 12). Thirty-eight states or provinces have at least 10 more bird species than they did centuries ago. Human-caused changes to habitat (n = 84) or climate (n = 5) facilitated 98% of known or suggested range expansions, so it is likely range expansions will continue. If thousands of Barred Owls are killed because they expanded their range and are competing with a species of concern, it seems likely USFWS soon would need to consider whether to lethally intervene in conflicts between many other species of native birds due to the high frequency and large extent of range expansions, probability that range expansions will continue, increases in number of listed species, and further documentation of negative effects between species.
3536755|We used marine radar to study nocturnal bird migration at the Vansycle Ridge and Stateline wind-energy projects in northeastern Oregon and southeastern Washington during fall 2000, spring 2001, and fall 2001. Our study was designed to monitor waterfowl, shorebird, and passerine movements during spring migration and passerine movements during fall migration. Flight directions (mean  1 angular deviation) of surveillance radar targets were in seasonally appropriate directions at Stateline and Vansycle Ridge during fall 2000 (169  33, 165  39), spring 2001 (10  35, 7  32) and fall 2001(160  53, 166  53), respectively. Passage rates (mean targets / km / h  1 s<sub>x</sub>) of targets were similar between Stateline and Vansycle Ridge and were higher during spring 2001 (45.1  6.6, 48.3  6.2) than during fall 2000 (20.8  2.3, 19.0  2.0) and fall 2001 (21.6  2.5, 26.3  2.5), respectively. Flight altitudes (mean altitudes  1 s<sub>x</sub>; collected from 0 to 1500 m above ground level) were similar between Stateline and Vansycle Ridge during spring 2001 (506  4.7, 579  4.8) and fall 2001 (647  7.0, 606  7.5), respectively, but fall altitudes were significantly higher than spring altitudes at both sites. A minimum of 85% (spring 2001) to 94% (fall 2001) of targets were observed at altitudes above proposed turbine heights at both sites. Understanding the basic components of nocturnal bird migration in specific locations can help site future development projects in a manner that will help conserve nocturnal migrants.
10.2307/3536616|Mustela frenata and M. erminea are common mammalian predators in Pacific Northwest forests, yet very little is known about their ecology in this region. Forty-five Mustela spp. were captured in >200,000 trap nights. Mustela erminea were most often captured in thinned stands with dense understory but little coarse woody debris; M. frenata were most often captured in unthinned stands with little understory development but high levels of coarse woody debris. Management history may influence Mustela spp. abundance and diversity. Eight M. frenata dens were located; 2 were in arboreal stick nests. Evidence from 4 yr of small mammal research in second-growth Pseudotsuga menzeisii stands, including recovery of 58 radio transmitters placed on Glaucomys sabrinus, suggests that Mustela spp. are important predators of G. sabrinus in the Puget Trough.
41300888|During a long-term demography study of Northern Spotted Owls (Strix occidentalis caurina) in the eastern Cascade Range of Washington State in 1989 to 2008, we documented 276 nests of Northern Spotted Owls at 73 different territories. Of these nests, 90.2% were on platforms, mostly in clumps of deformed limbs caused by dwarf mistletoe (primarily Arceuthobium douglasii), and 9.8% were in cavities in trees. Of the nests associated with dwarf mistletoe, 8.4% were nests built by other raptors and 91.6% were either natural accumulations of debris or debris accumulated by other birds or mammals. Owls switched nests between nesting attempts 81.2% of the time. The presence of a new male or female at a territory did not affect the odds of switching nests between nesting attempts. The odds an owl would reuse a nest were 6 times greater for owls that were successful in the previous nesting attempt compared to owls that were unsuccessful, given the same type of nest structure. The odds an owl would reuse a cavity nest were 4.7 times greater than the odds an owl would reuse a platform nest, given the same level of nest success the previous year. The estimated mean annual survival rate () of nest structures was 0.98 (SE = 0.006), suggesting that mean life expectancy of nests was 42 y. However, nests on dwarf mistletoe platforms may be more ephemeral than cavity nests or the nest trees themselves, and management for viable nest areas for Spotted Owls should include multiple trees with mistletoe brooms suitable for alternate nests. Our results, and results from other studies, indicate that Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) trees infected with dwarf mistletoe are an important habitat component for Spotted Owls and many other species of birds and arboreal mammals on the east slope of the Cascade Range in Washington.
43286676|Deer-vehicle collisions are on the rise in North America, requiring a better understanding of road use patterns by deer. We examined summer use of roadside areas by White-tailed Deer (Odocoileus virginianus) and Mule Deer (Odocoileus hemionus) in the central Rocky Mountains, Alberta. Deer surveys were conducted along the main highway at dawn and dusk for 6 summers. We observed more White-tailed Deer than Mule Deer along the highway during the study. White-tailed Deer were also involved in collisions with vehicles more often than Mule Deer, and may pose a higher risk for collisions because they tend to flee when approached. Time of day did not affect Mule Deer sightings during the study period, but White-tailed Deer were observed more frequently in the morning than evening. Both species were observed more frequently in May than other months. While little association was observed between deer species, large-scale spatial segregation along the highway did not occur. Our data suggest that drivers were likely to encounter deer in single-species pairs, and based on deer roadside use, we suggest that the potential for deer-vehicle collisions was highest in May, close to dawn, and along the northern sections of the highway. Deer-vehicle collision data indicated that the predominant locations of collisions reflected the spatial patterns of roadside usage by deer, but temporal patterns of collisions are also affected by visibility and traffic patterns. Collision-mitigation strategies incorporating deer behavior and driver-education are discussed.
10.2307/3536688|We examined 330 samples of scat collected from 23 individual pileated woodpeckers (Dryocopus pileatus) from August 1989 to August 1990. Based on arthropod mandibles found in the scats, the diet was 68% carpenter ants (Camponotus spp.), 29% thatching ants (Formica spp.) and other ants, 0.4% beetles (Coleoptera), and 2% other. Diet changed seasonally with none or few (0-11%) of the thatching and other ants found from November to February, but these ants comprised most of the diet from June until September. Carpenter ants were found in the diet in all months. Scats collected from the roost cavity of one bird contained 170 mandibles of western spruce budworm (Choristoneura occidentalis) and 259 mandibles of an unknown Isoptera.
10.2307/3536824|Knowledge of where and how wild animals forage for food resources is essential for effective wildlife management and conservation. Therefore, we quantified foraging behaviors and patterns of habitat use by chestnut-backed chickadees (Poecile rufescens) and mountain chickadees (P. gambeli) in the western Sierra Nevada from May 1986 through February 1989. Chestnut-backed chickadees have invaded mixed-conifer forest habitats in the Sierra Nevada during the past 40 to 50 yr, and now occupy areas where mountain chickadees were the only previous resident member of the family Paridae. This recent range expansion provided a unique opportunity to study comparative aspects of foraging and habitat use by 2 closely related, and recently sympatric, species. Foraging and habitat use data were collected on a monthly basis for 34 mo. During the study, chestnut-backed chickadees foraged on California black oak (Quercus kelloggii) and Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) significantly more than mountain chickadees throughout their annual cycle; whereas, mountain chickadees foraged on ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa), sugar pine (P. lambertiana), and white fir (Abies concolor) significantly more than chestnut-backed chickadees. Both chickadees significantly increased the amount of time they foraged on white fir during the breeding season, sugar pine during late summer (July to August), and incense cedar (Calocedrus decurrens) during winter (October to March). Shifts in the use of 2 of these tree species were attributed to the seasonal presence of 2 abundant arthropods: larvae of a bud-mining sawfly (Pleuroneura sp., Hymenoptera, Xyelidae) on white fir and a margaroid scale (Xylococulus macrocarpae, Homoptera, Margaroididae) on incense cedar. When the autocorrelation structures of the data were assessed using time series analyses of monthly time lags, certain aspects of the foraging behaviors (gleaning, hanging, and flaking bark chips) of both species showed evidence of periodic annual cycles. Our data indicated that all 6 of the dominant forest tree species in the mixed forest zone of the western Sierra Nevada provide foraging habitat and associated food resources for these birds during different parts of their annual cycle. Commercial forest management actions in the western Sierra Nevada are simplifying forest structure by concentrating regeneration on ponderosa pine and Douglas-fir at the expense of white fir, sugar pine, incense cedar, and black oak. How such management will affect populations of chickadees and other species of insectivorous birds is currently unknown and should be tested with manipulative field experiments.
10.2307/3536486|At present, a single species of sharp-tailed snake (Contia tenuis) is recognized. Herein, I disclose the existence of a second form of Contia and provide details of its discovery. Morphological differences in coloration, relative tail length, and ventral and caudal scale counts plus ecological evidence support the hypothesis of its being a new species. A formal description of the new form and re-description of C. tenuis awaits completion of an extensive review of preserved material.
10.2307/3536846|We examined digestive tract contents and nitrogen stable isotope ratios in breast muscles of northern fulmars (Fulmarus glacialis) salvaged from squid and large-mesh drift nets in the transitional North Pacific. Lantern fishes (Myctophidae) were the principal prey item found in the digestive tracts. Pieces of unidentified fishes (probably Pacific pomfret Brama japonica) and shredded squid tissue (probably neon flying squid Ommastrephes bartrami) indicate scavenging at fishing operations. Although soft-bodied prey such as Velella were not found in the digestive tracts,  <sup>15</sup>N values suggest that fulmars may feed heavily on such low trophic-level animals.
10.2307/3536763|Based on banding recoveries, an estimated 89.5% of American kestrels (Falco sparverius) nesting in eastern Oregon, eastern Washington, and Idaho (excluding the Snake River Plain) are migratory and primarily migrate to western Mexico for the winter. Band recoveries from Mexico may be biased; however, we do not know whether the bias is toward more or fewer recoveries. The banding data imply that the remaining kestrels from the region (10.5%) are permanent residents, and we found 2.8% of a northeastern Oregon population on nesting territories in January 1981 (permanent residents). A higher percentage of the nesting population appears to be permanent residents in the valleys along the Snake River Plain than in the remainder of Idaho, eastern Oregon, and eastern Washington (p = 0.02). Limited evidence shows that permanent resident kestrels in eastern Oregon nest earlier than migrants. Information available for the population west of the Cascade Mountains in Oregon and Washington was limited.
10.2307/3536882|An isolated, relic population of intergrades between the northern prairie lizard (Sceloporus undulatus garmani) and the red-lipped plateau lizard (S. u. erythrocheilus) occurs in a very limited habitat in northeastern Elbert Co., Colorado, completely surrounded by habitats unsuitable for either subspecies. It is suggested that the two subspecies were in contact during two hypsithermal periods, separated by a hypothermal period, several thousand years ago, when first primary and later secondary intergradation occurred. The ensuing hypothermal period apparently eliminated all geographical and populational intermediates except those in this very restricted and particularly favorable habitat where a small population of the formerly widespread intergrades has managed to survive.
10.2307/3536787|We collected and analyzed pellets and prey remains from breeding territories of 39 ferruginous hawks (Buteo regalis) in the Columbia Basin of Washington between 1992 and 1995. Among 4402 identified items were remains of 12 mammal species, primarily northern pocket gophers (Thomomys talpoides). Orthopterans, primarily Tettigoniidae, outnumbered all other identified prey items. Birds and snakes were difficult to count accurately, but contributed significantly to diets at some territories. Prey items of ferruginous hawks at the Hanford Nuclear Reservation were almost exclusively pocket gophers and insects. Hawks elsewhere in Washington often had more varied diets incorporating small mammal species, primarily Great Basin pocket mice (Perognathus parvus). At the 4 territories where prey were quantified each year (all at the Hanford Nuclear Reservation), the relative contribution of insect prey varied. Few lagomorphs were encountered, suggesting a dietary shift since the 1920's for ferruginous hawks nesting in Washington.
10.2307/3536655|We analyzed how vegetation structure and nest box orientation influenced patterns of nest box occupancy by chestnut-backed (Poecile rufescens) and mountain (P. gambeli) chickadees in the western Sierra Nevada for 3 breeding seasons. The range expansion by the chestnut-backed chickadee during the past 50 years into forests where the mountain chickadee was formerly the only resident parid provided an opportunity to examine how these 2 closely related species use forest resources in a zone of recent sympatry. Our study was conducted about 35 to 40 years after chestnut-backed chickadees colonized the western Sierra Nevada. Although there was broad overlap in the habitat structure around the boxes occupied by the 2 species, chestnut-backed chickadees tended to occupy boxes that were in denser, more closed-canopy stands and mountain chickadees tended to occupy boxes in stands with a more open, park-like structure. Both species clearly avoided nest boxes and habitat plots with a western orientation and consistently used boxes in patches of habitat that were oriented north, east, and south.
4501977|We report on 1153 winter prey items eaten by 11 Barred Owls (Strix varia) from 6 areas in west-central Montana. Small mammals dominated the diet, representing 98 to 100% of the frequency of prey eaten by each owl. Of the small mammals, voles (Microtus) were clearly the most numerous prey group, representing 97.6% of all prey. Within Microtus, the Montane Vole (Microtus montanus) was the most numerous species eaten at 5 areas, and the Meadow Vole (M. pennsylvanicus) was the most numerous species eaten at 1 area. Pellet length X width for 4 Barred Owls averaged 61.4 X 24.5 mm. Because of the adaptability of Barred Owls and the overlap of their range with that of the Spotted Owl (S. occidentalis) in the northwestern United States, future dietary comparisons between seasons may also help elucidate the comparative ecology of these congeners as conservation issues arise.
4095761|Researchers, land managers, and the public currently often are unable to obtain useful biodiversity information because the subject represents such a large component of biology and ecology, and systems to compile and organize this information do not exist. Information on vascular plant taxonomy, as addressed by the Global Biodiversity Information Facility and key partners, serves as an example of current efforts to integrate information. Current areas of informatics research related to online systems are focused on improving searches and intelligent systems, but are limited by available information. I recommend 5 steps to improve access to biodiversity information. For even a small portion of the world's information on biodiversity to become available online, sites need to be able to integrate information from multiple sources and search capacity needs to be improved and focused. In addition, incentives or public policy need to promote the use of standards, the long-term maintenance of data sets, the maintenance of institutions for maintaining and distributing information, and more careful use of limited resources.
43286674|The Northern Idaho Ground Squirrel (NIDGS, Urocitellus brunneus brunneus) is threatened by habitat loss due to fire exclusion in west-central Idaho. Increases in Ponderosa Pine (Pinus ponderosa) density and extent have closed historically open meadows. Management practices for NIDGS recovery include thinning and burning to reduce tree encroachment. Baseline habitat data help create restoration goals and refine present management plans, but no pristine reference sites exist for the NIDGS, due to 100 y of land use and a lack of historical records. Therefore, we provided the first quantitative habitat descriptions of NIDGS habitat at 7 currently occupied sites that may be useful as an ecosystem of reference. We chose habitat attributes that are likely important to NIDGS, as well as attributes that are potentially altered by restoration treatments, which included overstory canopy cover, tree density, ground cover, litter depth, and soil texture. Habitat attributes were described with Bayesian 95% credibility intervals. Sites occupied by NIDGS had tree canopy cover of 10 to 15%, tree densities of 64 to 118 trees/ha, and understory height was 20 to 25 cm. Understory vegetation of occupied habitat consisted of 20 to 30 species, while across-site richness was 153 species. We also identified 15 understory species with the highest constancy and cover across the 7 sites. Litter depth was 0.7 to 0.9 cm, and the soil texture was clay loam. Our study provides valuable baseline information about NIDGS habitat. Managers may use our results to develop appropriate restoration targets when implementing habitat restoration. Information on occupied habitat may increase lhe efficacy of currently implemented restoration techniques and provide knowledge to be used in an adaptive management framework.
3536874|The introduction of rat species (Rattus spp.) is a conservation concern for island avifauna throughout the world. I employed 3 commonly used monitoring techniques for rats: live-trapping, snap-trapping, and apples as indicator baits at several sites on Langara Island, British Columbia, with and without the presence of breeding seabirds. Capture rates of Norway rats (Rattus norvegicus) in snap traps in an ancient murrelet (Synthliboramphus antiquus) colony while murrelets were actively breeding ranged between 0.0 and 0.7 captures per 100 trap-nights (C/100 TN), while concurrent capture rates in other regions of the island outside of the ancient murrelet colony ranged from 2.2 to 17.1 C/100 TN. Live traps in the ancient murrelet colony also had low capture rates (0 to 0.5 C/100 TN) while murrelets were present in the colony. Once murrelets departed following their breeding, capture rates in snap traps in the ancient murrelet colony rose to 9.9 to 14.0 C/100TN, rates comparable to other areas of the island without breeding seabirds. Apples were a useful monitoring tool and detected the presence of rats in seabird-nesting areas where no rats were trapped with snap or live traps. I conclude that the presence of breeding seabirds undermines the utility of traps as monitoring tools and that research and management efforts dependent on the capture of rats would best be carried out before or after the breeding season of these seabirds.
10.2307/3536883|The use of cluster analysis for assessing habitat use by coyotes (Canis latrans) in an area of vegetal homogeneity is demonstrated. Vegetation data from areas used by coyotes for hunting or resting were analyzed. Of the three indices of similarity, Motyka's index produced the most clearly defined clusters of vegetally similar plots with the fewest outliers. Cluster analysis was successful in grouping similar plots which differed significantly from other clusters for various quantitative measurements. Relationships between these clustered plots and coyote activity were found for percent grass cover, percent ground litter, and percent rock and bare ground.
10.2307/3536504|I provide detailed records for 113 bird species of rare occurrence ( 20 records each) in Montana. Twenty-seven of these species are no longer regarded as rare in the state, based on the additional records provided in this paper, and 1 species (Iceland gull [Larus glaucoides]) should be regarded as hypothetical. Ninety-one species not recorded by Saunders (1921) have been documented, including 3 loons, 3 jaegers, 8 gulls, and 18 warblers. I also review the status of 5 "non-rare" species whose abundance and distribution have changed markedly during the 2nd half of this century and discuss hybrids of 16 species pairs.
4095799|We modeled habitat selection by Pacific sand lance (Ammodytes hexapterus) by examining their distribution in relation to water depth, distance to shore, bottom slope, bottom type, distance from sand bottom, and shoreline type. Through both logistic regression and classification tree models, we compared the characteristics of 29 known sand lance locations to 58 randomly selected sites. The best models indicated a strong selection of shallow water by sand lance, with weaker association between sand lance distribution and beach shorelines, sand bottoms, distance to shore, bottom slope, and distance to the nearest sand bottom. We applied an information-theoretic approach to the interpretation of the logistic regression analysis and determined importance values of 0.99, 0.54, 0.52, 0.44, 0.39, and 0.25 for depth, beach shorelines, sand bottom, distance to shore, gradual bottom slope, and distance to the nearest sand bottom, respectively. The classification tree model indicated that sand lance selected shallow-water habitats and remained near sand bottoms when located in habitats with depths between 40 and 60 m. All sand lance locations were at depths <60 m and 93% occurred at depths <40 m. Probable reasons for the modeled relationships between the distribution of sand lance and the independent variables are discussed.
30135129|During the winter of 2005-2006, a large number of Snowy Owls (Bubo scandiacus) migrated to northwestern Montana. At least 42 owls were recorded in the Mission and Flathead Valleys. In one field of approximately
10.2307/3536814|The nest of a marbled murrelet (Brachyramphus marmoratus) was found at the inland edge of the species' range late in the nesting season in 1994. The nest was located 47.9 m high in an 80.5-m high, 1.8-m diameter old-growth Douglas-fir, 49 km E of the Pacific Ocean in Douglas County, Oregon. A single chick apparently was fledged successfully after 17 August. Mean landing time of adults at the nest tree was 25 min after sunrise, and 77% of morning detections included both visual and audio observations. It is likely that all observations of murrelets in this stand were of a single pair of nesting birds.
10.2307/3536609|This study was initiated in 2000, as previous studies in the 1990s suggested that nesting populations of pelagic cormorant (Phalacrocorax pelagicus) and double-crested cormorant (P. auritus) were declining in the Strait of Georgia. We conducted a complete count in 2000 and compared population estimates from counts completed in various years since the mid 1950s. We surveyed 34 pelagic and 17 double-crested cormorant historic and current colonies. Our analyses showed that overall counts of pelagic cormorants were down by half and double-crested cormorants had declined by two-thirds since 1987. Pelagic cormorants had significantly fewer nests in 2000 compared with 1987, although during that period an increase in the population at 1 colony was noted. Significant increasing trends were noted at 2 of 17 double-crested cormorant colonies. However, these increases did not offset the dramatic declines in overall population size. We suggest that the causes of declines are possibly related to a combination of bald eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) disturbance, change in prey availability, and human disturbance.
4095759|Habitat models address only 1 component of biodiversity but can be useful in addressing and managing single or multiple species and ecosystem functions, for projecting disturbance regimes, and in supporting decisions. I review categories and examples of habitat models, their utility for biodiversity conservation, and their roles in making conservation decisions. I suggest the use of influence diagrams in structuring causal webs and structural equation modeling to quantify relations, as a general framework for building models of habitat from which a known degree of inference can be made to biodiversity variables.
30135130|Chestnut-backed Chickadees were studied over a 4-y period near Portland, Oregon, and for 1 of those years near Eugene, Oregon. Data on nesting activities and nestling growth rates were obtained by monitoring nest boxes. The chickadees began nest-building activity in March, with the 1st eggs being laid in early April and nests continuing to be initiated through early July. The timing of nest initiation was bimodal with the 1st peak in late April and a 2nd, smaller peak in June, referred to as "late nests". Late nests accounted for 14 of the 94 nests observed. Clutch size for early nests varied from 5 to 10 eggs, with 7- and 8-egg clutches occurring at nearly equal frequency and representing 67.9%. Fledge success was greatest for 9-egg clutches and lowest for the smallest (6 or fewer) and largest (10) clutch sizes. Incubation averaged 13.8 d. The nestling growth phase averaged 18.8 d. Nestling body mass at age 14 d (the growth asymptote) was not correlated with clutch size or 14-d brood size. Late nests had lower clutch sizes but did not appear to be different for other reproductive parameters. Twenty-two nests failed to fledge any young at all, of which 13 nests failed due to predation. Predation by weasels was observed in one case and implicated in others. Other possible nest predators were Raccoons, Domestic Cats, and Douglas' Squirrels. Eviction of the chickadees by House Sparrows, House Wrens, and Bewick's Wrens was also observed.
10.2307/3536776|We studied piracy among bald eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) during the 1984 and 1985 autumn migration concentrations in Glacier National Park, Montana. The nearly exclusive prey at this site was kokanee salmon (Oncorhynchus nerka). We quantified, during aerial piracy attempts, the success of aggressors (eagles that aggressively tried to pirate salmon from other eagles) and followers (eagles that remained behind the interaction and made no attempt to directly pirate food) in obtaining food dropped by the host (the eagle in possession of the fish). During these interactions (N = 62), the host frequently dropped the salmon (55%), which was often recovered (62%) by the aggressor, a follower, or an eagle perched nearby. Fifty-two percent of the piracy attempts observed had at least one follower. A host was more likely to drop the salmon as the group size (aggressor and followers) increased. On a per-individual basis, aggressors and followers were equally successful at obtaining food lost by a host. Aggressors were more successful when one follower was present (17%) than when no followers were present (10%). One aggressor to one follower was the only ratio profitable to both.
10.2307/3536862|In the Pacific Northwest, the northern flying squirrel, Glaucomys sabrinus, consumes sporocarps of a wide variety of hypogeous mycorrhizal fungi (truffles). Numerous other foods are also consumed but are not well characterized by fecal pellet analysis either because they are more fully digested (seeds, nuts, fruits, vegetation) or because of the similarity among spore types (lichen photobionts, epigeous fungi). Thus, observations of squirrel foraging are important in characterizing non-truffle dietary components. As part of a trapping and telemetry study, we observed G. sabrinus foraging on 63 occasions; 34 were observations of non-truffle consumption. These foods included epigeous fungi, fruits and seeds, and conifer seedlings. We hypothesize G. sabrinus may consume more non-truffle foods than is indicated by fecal pellet analysis, and that such foods may be important nutritional supplements to a low-quality diet as well as substitutes for truffles in times or places of low truffle abundance. By availing themselves of other food sources, G. sabrinus may persist in otherwise marginal habitats, while also contributing to the dispersal of a wide diversity of fungi and increasing genetic diversity of fungal and microbial species.
41300889|Among Yellow-rumped Warblers (Dendroica coronata) banded in Portland, Oregon, in the spring migration seasons of 2007 through 2010, prealternate molt was found in 40.0% of the Myrtle subspecies group (D. c. coronata group) but just 5.9% of the Audubon's subspecies group (D. c. auduboni group). The peak of molt frequency occurred prior to the peak of abundance for both subspecies groups, but that of the Myrtle Warbler substantially overlapped its peak in abundance and represented 82.4% of individuals captured. Twenty-two Yellow-rumped Warblers (1.4%) were recaptured. The mean stopover time for those recaptured within the same season was 8.27 d. Most of the same-season recaptures gained fat or became no leaner during their stay.Molting birds had lower fat scores than prior to and after completion of molt. Fat scores continued to increase following completion of molt. Multiple lines of inference point to the importance of Smith and Bybee Lakes Preserve and its vicinity as a migratory stopover site for the Yellowrumped Warblers. Prealternate molt at a migratory stopover site to the extent shown by the Myrtle Warbler subspecies group has not previously been documented for any species.
10.2307/3536764|I examined correlations between human activities and nest occupancy, activity, and success of bald eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) in western Washington by comparing productivity data with measurements of habitat alterations made from aerial photos. Except for the density of inland-oriented residences within 90 m of nests, all other potential indicators of disturbance were positively correlated with nest occupancy, activity, success, and number of young. These potential indicators of disturbance included residences, primary roads, secondary roads, and clearings. The average distance to the nearest habitat alteration was significantly greater for inactive nests than for active nests, but was not significantly different for occupied and unoccupied nests, or for successful and unsuccessful nests. The average distance to the nearest habitat alteration for successful nests was 93 m.
40983225|As natural roosts of Big-ear Bats (Corynorhinus townsendii ssp.) are threatened or disappear, artificial roosts offering an acceptable microclimate may become an important component of the conservation strategy for this species. To determine how microclimate affects roosting behavior, I studied the responses of a maternity colony of Townsend's Big-eared Bats (C. t. townsendii) to varying temperature and humidity conditions in an attic roost. I constructed matrices of ambient temperature (T a ) and humidity from data logger recordings. I used a thermal imaging system to image the colony at 4 times on each of 4 days during the lactation period, recording size and location of each cluster or solitary individual. Clustering where it was warmest and apparent vasoconstriction of blood vessels in the ears were used to reduce heat loss at low T a . Reduced clustering, movement to cooler locations, apparent vasodilation of blood vessels in the ears, and increased resting were used to increase heat dissipation at high T a . The mechanisms used at both low T a and high T a probably also reduced metabolic rate and heat production. Humidity did not appear to affect cluster size and location. These results suggest that large, open-room structures offering a range of T a and enough space for bats to spread apart would be important characteristics of artificial roosts for maternity colonies of C.t. townsendii.
41300876|The Northern Spotted Owl (Strix occidentalis caurina) population is declining throughout its range in the United States and adjacent Canada and is facing increasing pressure from the invading Barred Owl (Strix varia). In this study, we characterize Spotted Owl habitat associations and develop 2 new habitat selection models for the eastern Washington Cascade Range. Topographic and habitat data were compiled at 2 scales (0.25 and 1.0 mi) around 224 Spotted Owl activity centers, or sites, and at 160 random locations in the same geographic region, and used to develop models for predicting owl distributions. Univariate analysis found that owl sites occurred below 5000-ft elevation and were more likely to occur as area in the >71% crowncover class increased. Owl sites were found to be more likely to occur closer to streams and to be rare in the Subalpine Fir (Abies lasiocarpa) vegetation type. The 9-25" tree size-class was a significant predictor of the distribution of owl sites. Habitat models were constructed that were moderately successful at predicting owl-site distribution. Models from the largest scale tested (1.0-mi radius) were the most predictive, at 80% accuracy. Top-ranked models included overstory canopy cover, tree size, elevation, precipitation, distance to stream, and tree species as predictors. The resulting models can be used to help identify likely sites for surveys and to inform conservation and landscape management activities associated with forest-health restoration.
40856470|Barred Owls (Strix varia) expanded their range to include western North America and have been competing with federally threatened Northern Spotted Owls (S. occidentalis camina) for the past few decades. To help protect Spotted Owls, the US Fish and Wildlife Service is considering conducting a 3-to 10-y study in which as many as 2150 to 4650 Barred Owls would be killed and, possibly, conducting long-term management of Barred Owls. To help give these considerations a global perspective, I gathered information concerning instances of negative effects between native (non-introduced) birds worldwide (n = 194) and how managers address these effects. I found reports for 15 species of native birds of concern negatively affected by hybridization, 22 by brood parasitism, 58 by competition, and 99 by prdation. Control commonly is used to address brood parasitism by cowbirds (Molothrus spp.), and prdation by gulls (Larinae) and corvids (Corvidae), whereas control rarely is used to address competition and is never used to address hybridization. Globally, very few raptors are killed for any of these threats. If the precedent-setting removal study as described here is implemented, it would, during its 1st year, result in the death of 36 times more raptors than in all other conservation-based projects combined in the United States and its territories, and 84 times more raptors than in the largest ongoing effort worldwide. This study could cost $ 1 million annually; simplifying the cost to dollars per Barred Owl killed approximates $ 700 per Barred Owl for the 1st year and $ 2800 per Barred Owl for each subsequent year.
41300887|Although nest prospecting, natal philopatry, and nest-site fidelity have been observed in many alcids, few data demonstrate these behaviors in Marbled Murrelets (Brachyramphus marmoratus). Prior to the 2003 breeding season, we installed a permanent video camera adjacent to a Marbled Murrelet nest site that had been used in 2001 and 2002. Video recordings in 2003 detected the simultaneous presence of 3 murrelets in alternate plumage on the nest branch, once during the incubation period, and once during the chick period. We did not observe aggression, suggesting familiarity between the extra-pair birds and site holders, and possibly avoidance of detection by predators. Without banded individuals we hypothesize extrapair visitations at an active nest reflect nest-site prospecting, natal philopatry, or nest-site fidelity.
10.2307/3536640|Survival rates, causes of mortality, and reproduction in the American marten (Martes americana) were determined in northeastern Oregon from 1994 until 1997 with radiocollared martens. The probability of survival of martens 9 mo old was 0.55 for 1 yr, 0.37 for 2 yr, 0.22 for 3 yr, and 0.15 for 4 yr. The mean annual probability of survival was 0.63 for 4 yr. Twenty-two of 35 radiocollared martens died. Of the 18 martens killed by predators, 8 were killed by bobcats (Lynx rufus), 4 by raptors, 4 by martens, and 2 by coyotes (Canis latrans), based on necropsies and circumstantial evidence at kills. Three martens died of exposure and 1 of collar entrapment. Of 13 reproductive efforts, 4 females weaned 1 kit, 8 efforts failed, and the outcome of 1 was unknown. Predation of adult females prior to weaning was the source of reproductive failure for some efforts.
10.2307/3536539|A radio telemetry study of 38 adult moose was conducted in the Nass Wildlife Area (NWA), British Columbia, from 1997 to 2000. At least 71% of the moose were migratory. Bulls and cows moved 75 km between 2 seasonal ranges within the NWA. Migration from winter to non-winter range during April to June (pre-calving) and return to winter range in December to January appeared to be in response to changes in snowpack. Migratory moose used ranges separated primarily by latitude or elevation. Moose occurred at elevations ranging from 200 to 1500 m (x = 400 m). Higher elevations were used during non-winter. Moose used areas throughout the NWA in non-winter, but concentrated their use in the south during winter. Multiannual home range sizes of individual moose varied considerably, with a mean of 171 km<sup>2</sup> (kernel-density method) and 262 km<sup>2</sup> (minimum convex polygon method). Overall seasonal range size of collared moose was 594 km<sup>2</sup> in winter (December through April) and 910 km<sup>2</sup> in non-winter (June through November). Moose migrate across the Nass River at several key locations. Information gained during this study is being used by the provincial government and the Nisga'a Lisims government to co-manage moose in the NWA.
40856456|Researchers have documented precipitous declines in Cascades Frog (Rana cascadae) populations in the southern portion of the species' range, in the Lassen region of California. Reasons for the declines, however, have not been elucidated. In addition to common, widespread causes, an understanding of local community interactions may be necessary to fully understand proximal causes of the declines. Based on existing literature and observations made during extensive aquatic surveys throughout the range of R. cascadae in California, we propose that a proliferation of freshwater leeches (subclass Hirudinida) in the Lassen region may be adversely affecting R. cascadae populations. Leeches may affect R. cascadae survival or fecundity directly by preying on egg and hatchling life stages, and indirectly by contributing to the spread of pathogens and secondary parasites. In 2007, we conducted focused surveys at known or historic R. cascadae breeding sites to document co-occurrences of R. cascadae and leeches, determine if leeches were preying on or parasitizing eggs or hatchlings of R. cascadae, and identify the leech species to establish whether or not they were native to the region. We found R. cascade at 4 of 21 sites surveyed and freshwater leeches at 9 sites, including all sites with R. cascadae. In 2007 and 2008, the predatory leech Haetnopis marmorata frequented R. cascadae egg masses, was observed probing or tearing at eggs on 24 occasions, and was 10 times more common in 1-m plots centered on egg masses than in similar plots without egg masses. Six species of leech were identified from the Lassen region, only 3 of which have been documented from the region prior to this study. Given our documentation of a diverse freshwater leech fauna in direct association with a precipitously declining species, we believe a better understanding of the biology and ecology of this poorly studied taxon is needed, in addition to studies of the effects of freshwater leeches on survival and recruitment of co-occurring amphibians.
10.2307/3536641|Home ranges and dispersal of American martens (Martes americana) were determined in northeastern Oregon between 1993 and 1997 to provide managers with information necessary for developing management options to maintain habitat for viable populations. The average home range for males (2717 ha; SD = 1092.9; n = 10) was about twice that of females (1416 ha; SD = 744.3; n = 9). Home ranges were largely mutually exclusive for same-sex martens. Correlation analyses showed no significant linear relationships between the percentage of unharvested forest and home range size. Three juvenile martens (2 males, 1 female) that established home ranges outside the study area dispersed a mean of 33.3 km (range = 28 to 43.2 km).
10.2307/3536855|The current distribution of amphibians and reptiles in Glacier National Park, Montana was documented from museum records and field surveys conducted in 1990 to 1992. Eight species were recorded at 141 sites at elevations from 1000 m to 2300 m. Rana luteiventris was the most common amphibian, occurring parkwide to elevations of 1800 m. Ambystoma macrodactylum occurred in woodlands and wet meadows west of the Continental Divide at elevations between 1050 and 1500 m. This salamander was uncommon on the east side of the park with most sightings recorded in the lower Waterton Valley; none were found in the upper Missouri River drainage. Bufo boreas was widely distributed to elevations up to 2250 m, but was not abundant at most locations. Ascaphus truei was found in small, cold, high gradient streams throughout the Middle Fork drainage, but occurred intermittently in the North Fork and upper Missouri River drainages. A single population of A. truei was located in the South Saskatchewan River drainage. The range of Hyla regilla was restricted. Most sightings were made near the community of West Glacier, Montana, or at breeding ponds along the Middle Fork, Flathead River, a few km upstream. Chrysemys picta occurred mostly in the lower Lake McDonald valley at elevations between 1000 and 1120 m. A few turtles were seen in the North Fork drainage south of Polebridge, Montana. Thamnophis elegans was more abundant than the similarly distributed T. sirtalis. The widespread introduction of sport fish in park waters may have reduced amphibian populations in some drainages, notably in some of the high elevation valleys east of the Continental Divide.
10.2307/3536894|We monitored radio-equipped (n = 50) and neck-collared (n = 205) lesser Canada geese (Branta canadensis parvipes) during August through October 1996 in Anchorage, Alaska, to ascertain local patterns of movement and post-molt dispersal; to identify geese from molting sites that frequent Elmendorf Air Force Base (EAFB); and to evaluate the effectiveness of hazing at EAFB. Telemetry data and visual observations of collared geese indicated 59% of geese observed at EAFB were from molting sites 10 km from EAFB. We observed 93 marked geese from 11 molting sites 1 or more times in the EAFB airdrome, and 63% of geese observed >2 times on EAFB were from molting sites 10 km from EAFB. A significant direct relationship was found between proportion of geese invading the EAFB airdrome and the distance molting sites were located from EAFB. After attaining flight, geese from the northeast and northwest quadrants of Anchorage initially moved greater distances from molt sites to feeding sites than geese from other parts of Anchorage. Intensive hazing proved effective in preventing 67% of marked geese from returning to the exclusion zone. However, hazed geese dispersed only 3.53  0.2 km from the exclusion zone. Most observations of marked geese at EAFB occurred during afternoon from 1200 through 1759 hr. Although hazing efforts provided an increased measure of flying safety, we suggest that managing geese at the spatial level of the entire city will be more successful at reducing danger to aircraft.
3536472|We studied wintering owl use of hybrid poplar plantations, cropland, and shrubsteppe in northeastern Oregon. Logistic regression was used to identify habitat variables that best predicted owl presence or absence. We made 75 observations of 6 owl species during 2 y. The logistic regression model included the interiors of 5- and 6-y-old plantations as the best predictors of owl presence. Shrub-steppe habitat was included as the best predictor of owl absence. Significantly more owls were detected in 1999 compared to 2000. Maintaining an older component of interior plantation habitat within a plantation complex will likely create suitable wintering habitat for the owl species we studied.
10.2307/3536600|Nest-site selection and reproductive success are reported for ring-billed gulls nesting at Sprague Lake, Washington, in 1981. Gulls nesting in tall grass and rocky beach habitats began laying significantly earlier than other gulls. Incubation times also varied by location, with birds in peripheral areas spending over three days longer to incubate their eggs than those nesting in the main part of the colony. Reproductive success was highest for birds nesting in tall grass, followed by those in rocky beach, sparse vegetation, low dense herb, and peripheral areas, respectively. Nest densities by habitat were determined in 1979, 1980, and 1981. Densities were highest in tall grass, followed by those in rocky beach, sparse vegetation, and low dense herb, respectively. Associated California gulls nested almost exclusively in sparse vegetation. Nests with supernormal clutches (5-6 eggs) were more common in sparse vegetation, low dense herb, and peripheral areas than in tall grass and rocky beach and accounted for 0.9% of the ring-billed gull nests in the colony.
10.2307/3536599|A review of all known museum records and limited surveys of potential hibernacula in parts of southern British Columbia revealed low numbers and few species of bats in winter. Winter records exist for only seven of the 16 species that inhabit the province in summer. Plecotus townsendii was the only species regularly found in hibernacula. The largest winter aggregations ranged from 10-48 bats. The northern limits of the winter range for several species are near Williams Lake, where the mean minimum January temperature is -15C. The few species and low numbers in winter are consistent with observations from adjacent areas of the western United States.
41300886|Efforts are underway to restore the Salish Sea, a 16,925 km 2 inland sea shared by Washington State, USA, and British Columbia, Canada. A list of the birds and mammals that use this marine ecosystem is lacking. We compiled information from varied sources and identified 172 bird and 37 mammal species that depend on the Salish Sea marine ecosystem. Of these species, 72 bird and 29 mammal species are both highly dependent on intertidal or marine habitat as well as on marine derived food. One hundred bird species and 8 mammal species that use the Salish Sea marine ecosystem have varying degrees of dependence on the marine and terrestrial ecosystems to meet significant life history needs. These interactions between the marine and terrestrial ecosystems indicate the need to integrate marine and terrestrial restoration efforts to achieve long-term conservation of the suite of birds and mammals that use and depend on the marine ecosystem. This comprehensive list of avian and mammal fauna for the Salish Sea serves as a foundation for determining the occurrence of new species and the disappearance of others, enables selection of species as indicators for ecosystem health, and also provides a basis for identifying the mechanisms responsible for marine bird and mammal declines.
10.2307/3536747|A modified vehicle-mounted, X-band marine radar system was used to study the movements of marbled murrelets (Brachyramphus marmoratus) at inland and coastal sites in northern California during July. The ability of the radar to discriminate murrelets from other targets, and to estimate abundance was assessed. Murrelets were detected by radar at distances up to 1.3 km. Radar recorded the distance, ground speed, flight direction, and flight behavior (such as circling). The average ground speed of murrelets was 77 km/hr (range = 56-105 km/hr). Ground-based observers recorded an average of 67% of the murrelets within 700 m at inland sites that were recorded by radar. Using ground speed as a identification criterion, radar correctly distinguished murrelets from other bird species 87.8% of the time at coastal sites and 97.8% at inland sites. The only species contributing to identification error at inland sites was the band-tailed pigeon (Columba fasciata). Radar has advantages over ground-based observers as it does not rely on murrelets to vocalize for detection and can detect murrelets over a large area, regardless of variability in light conditions, observers' auditory and visual abilities, fog, and background noise. The benefits of using radar to understand the inland flight behavior of murrelets include better interpretations of ground-based observer survey data, better estimates of the number of birds using an area, collection of data that are not biased by murrelet vocalization rates, increased understanding of landscape level flight behaviors and use of flight corridors, 24-hr sampling ability, and a more detailed analysis of seasonal and daily changes in abundance inland sites.
10.2307/3536663|I studied social group size of Columbian black-tailed deer relative to vegetative cover to test the hypothesis that ungulate group size is inversely related to vegetative cover. Social group size was compared in 2 adjacent habitats. The 2 habitats, an open grassland and woodland mix and a densely forested range, differed in the degree of vegetative cover. I also compared social group size in different cover classes within each habitat. Group sizes of black-tailed deer were larger in the more open habitat, but did not differ between cover classes within a habitat. My results support an inverse relationship between the size of social groups and vegetative cover in an ungulate species occupying distinct ranges characterized by differences in the availability of cover. Responses to local (within habitat type) differences in cover characteristics may be masked by other proximate influences or simply not expressed by ungulates.
3536757|Little is known of the population ecology of black-tailed deer in urban environments. We investigated blacktail survival, productivity, and population rate-of-increase in urban Vancouver, Washington, from 1999 to 2001. We captured and radio-tagged 19 deer and located radio-tagged deer 1 to 4 times per week. Average annual survival pooled over 2 y was 0.70 (s<sub>x</sub> = 0.09) for does and 0.86 (s<sub>x</sub> = 0.12) for bucks. The majority of deer mortality (5 of 6) was due to trauma from collisions with either cars (n = 3) or trains (n = 2); the remaining death was likely an illegal kill. Adult does produced a minimum of 1.83 and 1.36 fawns in 1999 and 2000, respectively. Minimum fawn survival was calculated as 0.69 (s<sub>x</sub> = 0.09) by assuming that all fawns died whose mother was killed after weaning. Maximum potential fawn survival was calculated as 0.84 (s<sub>x</sub> = 0.08) by censoring fawns whose mothers were killed after weaning. Demographic analysis indicated that the deer population was producing a surplus of young and was increasing at an annual rate of 16% / y.
4095760|Monitoring is an assessment of the spatial and temporal variability in one or more ecosystem properties, and is an essential component of adaptive management. Monitoring can help determine whether mandated environmental standards are being met and can provide an early-warning system of ecological change. Development of a strategy for monitoring biological diversity will likely be most successful when based upon clearly articulated goals and objectives and may be enhanced by including several key steps in the process. Ideally, monitoring of biological diversity will measure not only composition, but also structure and function at the spatial and temporal scales of interest. Although biodiversity monitoring has several key limitations as well as numerous theoretical and practical challenges, many tools and strategies are available to address or overcome such challenges; I summarize several of these. Due to the diversity of spatio-temporal scales and comprehensiveness encompassed by existing definitions of biological diversity, an effective monitoring design will reflect the desired sampling domain of interest and its key stressors, available funding, legal requirements, and organizational goals.
10.2307/3536608|Bald eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) nest widely among Pacific Northwest habitats, including rivers, lakes, marine shorelines, and tidal bays. From 1986 to 1997, I investigated differences in home range characteristics, foraging behavior, and diets of bald eagles nesting in these habitats in western Washington. Home ranges (harmonic mean contours) for 53 eagle pairs averaged 4.9 km<sup>2</sup> (SE = 0.5), and were smaller than ranges reported for other bald eagle populations. Core areas averaged 1.2 km<sup>2</sup> (SE = 0.2). Eagles ate 78% fish, 19% birds, and 3% mammals based on 926 prey captured at 78 nest sites. Gulls (Larus spp.) and ducks were identified most often among 269 prey items. Home range characteristics varied significantly among habitats and were affected by foraging habits specific to each habitat. Eagles nesting in bays had the largest ranges, had the greatest available shoreline, and used the most perches due to expansive, tidally influenced foraging areas. A relatively high proportion of prey was scavenged (19%) and pirated (11%). Eagles along rocky, marine shores had ranges that were 50% smaller, but with irregular shorelines and islands that increased the length of shoreline available for foraging. Diets were similarly diverse. Eagles on freshwater lakes and rivers had the smallest core areas, least shoreline, and fewest perches within ranges, and spatial use was more restricted by the area of open water available for foraging. They captured >93% of prey alive, were highly efficient (88% successful) on rivers, and consumed the fewest fish (58%) in any habitat. Identification of key habitats for bald eagle nests in the Pacific Northwest can be made knowing that: 1) there is a progressive increase in the average home range size (2 to 7 km<sup>2</sup>), core area size (0.4 to 1.7 km<sup>2</sup>), shoreline length (2 to 4 km), and number of perches (14 to 32) used by nesting eagles on lakes, marine shorelines, rivers, and bays; and 2) the most important emphasis for habitat protection is <600 m from nests (average radius of core area) that includes most key perches and foraging sites.
4095789|The objectives of this study were to document the presence of breeding populations of wood frogs (Rana sylvatica) in Denali National Park and Preserve and to examine landscape and habitat factors associated with population distribution. Surveys were conducted within 41 circular plots, each 1 km in diameter. All lentic sites were surveyed within each 1-km plot to determine the presence of wood frogs and to collect habitat data. Of the 219 sites surveyed, breeding activity (the presence of eggs or larvae) was observed at 98 sites (45%). Larger and less isolated sites had a higher incidence of observed breeding activity. Also, breeding activity was more frequently observed at sites with more emergent vegetation and more woody vegetation in the riparian zone, especially riparian zones with alder and spruce. Breeding activity was less often observed at deeper sites, sites with a permanent stream connection, sites where sphagnum (peat) dominated the substrate, and sites with beaver activity. A multifactor habitat model was developed using classification trees and parsimonious model selection protocol. The final model identified proportion of woody vegetation in the riparian zone, dominant substrate type, presence of alder in the riparian zone, and observed beaver activity as 4 habitat factors that accurately described breeding activity patterns in the study area. The results show that breeding populations of wood frogs saturate the landscape in the Wonder Lake region with nearly half of the lentic habitat sites being used by wood frogs. The majority of the sites were well into the shrubby tundra and >1000 m from boreal forest, suggesting that wood frogs in Alaska may frequent non-canopied areas at higher elevations as long as shrubby vegetation is present in riparian areas.
10.2307/3536815|Northern spotted owls (Strix occidentalis caurina) nest in a rather broad range of forest stand conditions in the eastern Cascade Mountains Province in Washington, making it difficult to develop habitat definitions appropriate for the entire physiographic province. Our objective was to identify sources of variation across the province by comparing habitat conditions at nest sites in 4 subareas. These subareas are referred to as Fire Management Analysis Zones (FMAZ) and were identified by the U.S. Forest Service for fire control purposes on the Wenatchee National Forest and vicinity. The FMAZ areas were mapped primarily in terms of vegetation associations, topography, annual precipitation, frequency of lightning strikes, and estimates of fuel loading and fire frequency. Our results indicated that many features associated with spotted owl nest sites differed among FMAZs. Many of these differences occurred between sites in FMAZ 1 (a more xeric area) and those in other parts of the forest and were related to the abundance and/or basal area of climax tree species, an indication of differences in forest association. Grand fir (Abies grandis), western hemlock (Tsuga heterophylla), and western redcedar (Thuja plicata), were less common at nest sites in FMAZ 1 than in other areas. Other differences among nest sites in different zones included age of dominant and / or codominant trees, total basal area of living trees, and sapling density. However, variables normally associated with suitable habitat in this region did not differ among zones, indicating their likely ecological significance across the region.
10.2307/3536494|A mountain quail (Oreortyx pictus) habitat model developed with data from northern California was tested using data from 750 plots measured at 16 sites in Idaho, Washington, Oregon, and Nevada. Accuracy of model output was assessed using habitat data from sites known to support mountain quail populations. In 15 out of 16 instances, the model accurately predicted that a test site represented mountain quail habitat. These tests represent one method for habitat model evaluation. Additional strategies for testing this data-based habitat model are discussed.
4095757|The Society for Ecological Restoration Primer on Ecological Restoration (SERPER) states, "Ecological restoration is an intentional activity that initiates or accelerates the recovery of an ecosystem with respect to its health, integrity, and sustainability" and attempts to return an ecosystem to its historic condition. There are questions, however, about whether changing environmental conditions such as global climate change, invasive species (including pests and diseases), human-altered disturbance regimes, and widespread land-use changes will allow return to historic conditions, what constitutes naturalness, and whether restoration should incorporate continuing management. Active, intentional management (AIM) is a conservation approach that emphasizes a full range of active and passive management techniques to manage important ecological and hydrologic processes to conserve biodiversity; reconcile conflicts over management of natural resources; and provide various goods, ecological services, and recreational and spiritual opportunities to people over the long term. AIM includes intangibles such as knowing that rare species exist, that "wild" places are deliberately in place, and that ecological services important to the biosphere are maintained. How does AIM compare to restoration? Can AIM meet restoration goals? Specifically, can AIM reproduce the 10 traits of pristine ecosystems identified by SERPER? Measures can be used to evaluate success. For ecosystems, diversity of vascular plants, composition of functional groups of soil organisms, biotic integrity of vertebrate communities, and biocomplexity can be measured. For landscapes, simulations can project values: 1) capacity to support vertebrate diversity; 2) forest-floor function as measured by biotic integrity; 3) ecological productivity and ability to support medium-size predators as evidenced by biomass of mammalian frugivores; 4) ecological productivity and ability to sustain large predators, subsistence hunting by Native Americans, and sport hunting, as measured by production of corvids; 5) production of wood; 6) revenues; and 7) employment, which are measures of social, economic, and environmental sustainability. Would such forests seem natural? Perhaps what is needed are experiential comparisons of the abstract purity of pristine nature with contemplative experience of wildness in an intentionally managed mosaic... to immerse oneself in an AIM forest to experience aloneness as night falls, the moon rises, and the wolf howls.
10.2307/3536896|We surveyed amphibians at 4 montane and 2 plains lentic sites in northern Colorado using 3 techniques: standardized call surveys, automated recording devices (frog-loggers), and intensive surveys including capture-recapture techniques. Amphibians were observed at 5 sites. Species richness varied from 0 to 4 species at each site. Richness scores, the sums of species richness among sites, were similar among methods: 8 for call surveys, 10 for frog-loggers, and 11 for intensive surveys (9 if the non-vocal salamander Ambystoma tigrinum is excluded). The frog-logger at 1 site recorded Spea bombifrons which was not active during the times when call and intensive surveys were conducted. Relative abundance scores from call surveys failed to reflect a relatively large population of Bufo woodhousii at 1 site and only weakly differentiated among different-sized populations of Pseudacris maculata at 3 other sites. For extensive applications, call surveys have the lowest costs and fewest requirements for highly trained personnel. However, for a variety of reasons, call surveys cannot be used with equal effectiveness in all parts of North America.
41300902|Little is known about the diversity, distribution, and relative abundance of bats in northeastern Alberta, Canada. Between 1999 and 2007, we conducted summer bat surveys in the Athabasca and Cold Lake oil sands regions of northeastern Alberta, in response to increased industrial development and a need for greater understanding of species occurrences. We used mist nets (242 sites over 157 nights) and acoustic monitoring (920 sites over 126 nights) to determine the diversity and distribution of bats in the region. We captured 577 bats, representing 5 species, including: 260 Northern Myotis (Myotis septentrionalis); 193 Little Brown Myotis (M. lucifugus); 101 Silver-haired Bats (Lasionycteris noctivagans); 12 Hoary Bats (Lasiurus cinereus); and 11 Eastern Red Bats (L. borealis). Data from Anabat  echolocation detectors indicated the highest activity for unclassified Myotis, Little Brown Myotis, Big Brown Bats (Eptesicus fuscus) /Silver-haired Bats, and Northern Myotis. Results suggest that the Northern Myotis may be more common in northeastern Alberta than previously thought. Based on the combined capture and echolocation data, Eastern Red Bats and Hoary Bats may be more common, or have increased ranges, than previously considered. Although expected to be relatively common, our failure to capture Big Brown Bats suggests that this species may be absent from the study area. Captures of adult males for all 3 migratory bat species (Eastern Red Bats, Hoary Bats, and Silver-haired Bats) represent the most northerly records in western Canada of adult males. This paper demonstrates the value in combining short-term, localized survey data such that more regional trends in the diversity, distribution, and relative abundance of bats can be better understood.
10.2307/3536802|Eighty-two northern spotted owl (Strix occidentalis caurina) pellets containing 129 prey items were collected from high elevation forests in southwestern Oregon. Northern flying squirrels (Glaucomys sabrinus) comprised 50% of prey numbers and 54% of prey biomass. Other important prey were bushy-tailed woodrats (Neotoma cinerea) and voles (Clethrionomys occidentalis and Microtus spp.).
10.2307/3536825|Forty-one percent of 165 black bear (Ursus americanus) dens were in hollow trees or logs in northeastern Oregon from 1993 to 1999. The remainder of the dens were in ground excavations (37%) and in caves or rock structures (22%). Hollow trees with the den entrance in the broken-off trunk were typically large-diameter grand fir (Abies grandis; x = 114 cm dbh) with Indian paint fungus (Echinodotium tinctorium) decaying the heartwood. Hollow trees with a base-entry were large-diameter grand fir and western larch (Larix occidentalis; (x = 108 cm dbh) with basal decay. Hollow logs in grand fir and western larch made up 11% of the 165 dens. Although a wide variety of habitat types were used, the majority of trees used for denning (88%) were in moist, late-seral stands of grand fir. Retaining large-diameter grand fir and western larch with evidence of decay will increase den site options for black bears in northeastern Oregon.
10.2307/3536492|Home range behavior and spatial relationships of chases were examined for differences that might indicate which sex-age classes of Columbian ground squirrels (Spermophilus columbianus) would likely be infanticidal. Locations of individually marked squirrels were recorded at regular intervals and at the start of chases on 2-3 days per week during the 1971 active season. Location maps were used to measure home range size, home range overlap, distances between individuals, and distances between intruders and adult female home burrows. The probability of an adult female chasing another adult female decreased as the distance of the intruder from the owner's burrow increased, but was not related to the distance between the two adult females. Conversely, the probability of an adult female chasing members of other sex-age classes decreased as the distance between the squirrels increased, but was not related to distance of the intruder to the female's burrow. The latter results were also obtained for chases by adult males of members of all sex-age classes. Overlap between home ranges of adult females was significantly less when infants were in their burrows compared to gestation and post-lactation periods. However, overlap of adult female home ranges by those of other sex-age classes did not change seasonally. These results suggest that only adult females are likely to be infanticidal, which agrees with the two observations so far reported. They do not support Sherman's (1981) prediction that yearling males will also be infanticidal.
41300901|Genetic studies of amphibians frequently reveal substantial population structure often attributed to historical demographic processes from changing climate and isolation due to imposing geographic features. The Western Red-backed Salamander, Plethodon vehiculum (Caudata: Plethodontidae), is the most widespread and abundant terrestrial salamander in the Pacific Northwest. Using mitochondrial DNA sequence data, we addressed questions regarding the phylogeography of P. vehiculum, testing for the presence of Pleistocene refugia and major rivers as barriers to dispersal. Two major clades were recovered using phylogenetic analyses, a southern clade in the Klamath-Siskiyou region and a northern clade ranging from northern Oregon to southern British Columbia. Moderate levels of divergence between the northern and southern clades were observed, warranting further investigation. The northern populations were not highly differentiated from one another. Genetic data presents 2 possibilities, that of a large recent range expansion after the Pleistocene, or possible high habitat connectivity for these salamanders. While the Columbia River does not appear to have been a barrier to dispersal, populations from Vancouver Island and Washington's Olympic Peninsula contain unique haplotypes, as well as relatively higher levels of genetic differentiation compared to other northern populations. The Olympic Peninsula populations also have lower levels of genetic diversity than any other populations throughout the range. Therefore, P. vehiculum shows parallel and dissimilar patterns relating to its historical distribution and genetic population structure compared to other Pacific Northwest fauna.
10.2307/3536485|Habitat selection by northern sagebrush lizards (Sceloporus graciosus graciosus) was investigated on the US Navy's 19,400-ha Naval Weapons Systems Training Facility Boardman near Boardman, Oregon, as part of an integrated multi-resource research program. The objectives of the study were to determine what plant communities these lizards occupied and what specific habitat components they selected within these types. In general, northern sagebrush lizards occupied plant communities dominated by big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata) and antelope bitterbrush (Purshia tridentata) and largely avoided communities dominated by gray rabbitbrush (Chrysothamnus nauseosus), cheatgrass (Bromus tectorum), and western needle-and-thread grass (Stipa comata). Usage within bitterbrush and sagebrush habitats was determined by comparing habitat characteristics at sites occupied by lizards (n = 15 per plant community) with sites randomly located within each plant community (n = 15 per plant community). Results showed that these lizards selected for areas with significantly higher than average bare soil coverage and significantly lower than average coverage of grass, litter, and lichen. Furthermore, all sites occupied by lizards were located in sandy soils even though this soil type represented only about half of the surface soil texture available. Overall, northern sagebrush lizards selected for sand blows with approximately 20% shrub coverage and avoided areas with loamier soils covered (stabilized) with grass, litter, or lichen.
40983228|One of the most widely used herbicides for commercial and home use is glyphosate, the active ingredient in Roundup  Regular. We examined toxicity of the herbicide Roundup  on 6 amphibian species: Ambystoma gracile, Ambystoma macrodactylum, Anaxyrus [Bufo] breas, Pseudacris regula, Rana cascadae, and Rana luteiventris. Larvae were exposed to 6 different Roundup  Regular treatments (0 (control), 0.1, 0.5, 1.0, 2.0, and 5.0 mg AI/L dilutions of glyphosate) and monitored for 16 d. Estimated acute lethal concentrations at 24 h (LC50) varied significantly among species (ANOVA, F (3,56) = 3.54, p < 0.0202), with concentrations ranging from 0.43 mg AI/L of Roundup  for P. regula to 2.66 mg AI/L for A. boreas. Bufonid and ambystomatid larvae were less sensitive than Ranid and Pseudacrid species tested, with no salamander larval mortality occurring at 24 h. Mean time-to-death varied from 1 d for P. regula to 8.3 d for A. gracile, respectively (ANOVA, F (5, 971) = 108, p < 0.0001). For exposure times longer than 24 h, the A. boreas was not significantly different than the salamanders for time-to-death, based on Tukey-Kramer comparisons. Results suggest Roundup  Regular is highly toxic to the amphibians at levels below EPA standards for drinking water and at concentrations they may be exposed to during overspray. We recommend the use of less toxic glyphosate-based herbicides in aquatic systems, if applications are necessary, or made during times of year when amphibian larvae are not present.
10.2307/3536927|Three replicate sample plots were placed in 5 different successional stages (stand conditions) of temperate coniferous forest on the Olympic Peninsula, Washington. The successional stages ranged from recent clearcuts to old-growth. Small mammals were sampled on each plot using 1 line of live traps and a small array of pitfall traps and drift fences. Pitfalls were sampled for 4 nights / month over 5 months in 1997; live traps were sampled on 2 consecutive nights / month over 4 months in 1997. Analysis of pitfall and live trap captures showed no significant differences in number of captures among stand conditions for Sorex monticolus, S. trowbridgii, Peromyscus maniculatus, and Clethrionomys gapperi; these species seemed to be equally abundant in all successional stages. Peromyscus keeni was more abundant in old-growth than in shrub-sapling, open sapling-pole, and closed sapling-pole stands. Both S. monticolus and C. gapperi showed significant differences in abundance among months, probably as a result of low sampling effort.
4501964|The use of isolated emergent wetlands by amphibians has been well documented. However, amphibian habitats such as emergent wetlands in floodplains may differ from isolated wetlands because of their high disturbance (water fluctuation) related to riverine flooding, presence of fish species, and increased connectivity among aquatic habitats. We compared the amphibian assemblages at 6 freshwater wetland habitats in the Chehalis River floodplain and examined the effect of wetland restoration on amphibians. We sampled 6 wetlands during the breeding season in 2003 and 2004 and captured over 15,000 adults, tadpoles, and larvae from 6 species. The red-legged frog (Rana aurora) was the most abundant species captured. The rough skinned newt (Taricha granulose) was the only amphibian captured at all sampled sites. Although it is more desirable to prevent wetland degradation from occurring, restored and enhanced wetlands in floodplains do provide breeding habitat for amphibians. Amphibian species captured in reference wetlands were also captured in restored wetlands. Water control structures, which were used to facilitate wetland restoration, did not seem to influence utilization by amphibians; however, hydroperiod seemed to affect amphibian abundances. Wetlands with intermediate hydroperiods had the highest amphibian abundance compared to wetlands with temporary or permanent water. Fish were captured in all wetlands, and those with the greatest abundance of native non-game fishes had the highest abundance of amphibians. Our results suggest that emergent wetlands in floodplains are dynamic habitats that can offer breeding opportunities, but microhabitat suitability needs to be considered when managing amphibian habitats.
10.2307/3536654|We analyzed how the composition of mixed-species flocks occupied by chestnut-backed (Poecile rufescens) and / or mountain (P. gambeli) chickadees varied during the 1987 to 1988 and 1988 to 1989 nonbreeding seasons (October-March) in the western Sierra Nevada. These 2 chickadee species foraged during the nonbreeding season with 15 other species of birds; average number of species per flock was 3.1. Flocks consisting of only chestnut-backed or mountain chickadees made up 20% (42 of 209) all flocks. Average flock size and number of mountain chickadees per flock increased significantly from early (August through September) through middle (October through December) of the nonbreeding season. These results contrast with other studies of mixed-species flocking by birds which indicated that flock size typically decreases as the nonbreeding season progresses through the fall and winter months.
30136798|American Dippers (Cinclus mexicanus) in winter often foraged in habitats not used for nesting, including deltas of coastal creeks, and occasionally ponds, tiny streams, and ditches. The birds migrated altitudinally, at least 12 crossed a saltwater channel, and some apparently made wider, regional movements (5 to 50% of banded birds, with annual variation). In 2 relatively severe winters, we resighted fewer banded birds (<40% versus >65%) and annual survival was lower (<40% versus >50%), compared to 2 relatively mild winters. Birds foraging in the intertidal zone on deltas preyed on amphipods (low fat content) and fish, but this habitat was unavailable at high tide.
10.2307/3536812|The 27,000 ha Fort Lewis Military Reservation is situated in the Puget lowlands and contains a wide variety of aquatic habitats offering potential refuge for native amphibians. We surveyed amphibians on Fort Lewis from 1992 through 1995 to examine occupancy patterns relative to wetland characteristics. We documented 9 native amphibians and 1 introduced anuran (Rana catesbeiana) that represent 133 new locality records. We found no Rana pretiosa, but historic records suggest they were present earlier. Bufo boreas was rare. All other species appeared widespread and abundant. Native species richness was highest in temporary wetlands and in wetlands with extensive emergent vegetation. Richness was unrelated to wetland size, distance to nearest neighbor, and the presence of R. catesbeiana or exotic fish. Of four survey techniques used, funnel trapping yielded the most detections, but only visual encounter surveys detected every species.
10.2307/3536749|We surveyed marbled murrelets (Brachyramphus marmoratus) at Long Inlet and Shields Bay in the Queen Charlotte Islands, British Columbia, from May through July during the 1990 breeding season. Abundance varied daily and through the seaon. Maximum counts at sea were recorded prior to the egg-laying period in early May, and numbers were lowest in mid-June, during incubation, at both Long Inlet and Shields Bay. Mean numbers peaked in July during the latter part of the nestling period at Long Inlet but remained low at Shields Bay. The distribution of birds in Long Inlet changed over the season with a greater proportion of birds gathering at the head of the inlet as the season progressed. More birds were observed on morning surveys, 2-5 hr after sunrise, than on afternoon and evening surveys in Long Inlet. In Shields Bay, birds were more abundant in the evening. Numbers of detections in the forest peaked in late July at both sites and were positively correlated with abundance of murrelets in Long Inlet but not in Shields Bay. Contrasting patterns of abundance in Long Inlet and Shields Bay pose complications for survey design, and indicate that at-sea distribution does not dependably reflect breeding distribution.
23259631|We examined 14 wetlands in the Boreal Transition Zone (BTZ) of western Canada to investigate the effects of agricultural encroachment on aquatic macroinvertebrate communities and the response of waterfowl communities to these changes. The amount of agriculture within a 1.6-km buffer around wetlands was quantified primarily by remote imagery, and a sample of relatively similar wetlands was selected along an encroachment gradient from 0 to 90% agriculture. Species dominance showed temporal shifts during spring and summer. In May, 3 primary macroinvertebrate-dominated community types were present: 1) Amphipoda, 2) Diptera, and 3) Sigara. In August, 3 community types were present: 1) Amphipoda, 2) Notonecta, and 3) ChaoborusSigara. Environmental conditions were not distinct in every community type; however Sigara-dominated communities occurred in significantly shallower wetlands with greater concentrations of total inorganic nitrogen, total dissolved solids, and salinity than did Diptera dominated communities. Agricultural intensity was positively associated with phosphorus concentration. Phosphorus was likely an important factor in determining macroinvertebrate community composition with Sigara and ChaoborusSigara communities occurring in wetlands with very high concentrations of phosphorus (average >800 g/L), and Diptera and Notonecta communities occurring in wetlands with lower phosphorus (average <160 g/L). Amphipoda-dominated communities tended to occur in larger and deeper basins than Sigara-dominated communities. Waterfowl abundance was significantly and positively associated with macroinvertebrate abundance; however, occurrence of most waterfowl species did not correspond well with specific macroinvertebrate community types.
23259688|In Alberta, Canada, and throughout its North American range, Arctic Grayling (Thymallus arcticus) populations are rapidly declining. As part of monitoring and recovery planning, sampling protocols currently require direction for consistency and cost effectiveness. We assessed whether common sampling techniques, backpack electrofishing and angling, could reliably detect the presence and determine abundance estimates of the species in wadeable tributary streams of the Athabasca River. Additionally, we report on the use of a novel technique, egg-kick surveys, to detect spawning habitat and monitor abundance. Backpack electrofishing and angling with dry flies had the highest detection probabilities, although CPUEs were generally low. Egg-kick surveys rarely detected Arctic Grayling and generally failed as a monitoring tool in our study streams. We found that the size structure of catches were subject to temporal biases (early versus later summer) and dependent on gear type. As expected, angling detected more large fish (>110 mm) and included both juveniles and adults. We recorded about 3.1 times more large Arctic Grayling/km of angling versus backpack electrofishing. Young-of-the-year were more easily detected using backpack electrofishing in late summer (JulyAugust). We were unable to calculate and compare abundance estimates derived from mark-recapture and three-pass removal methods because both techniques generally failed to meet literature-derived criteria and produced unreliable estimates. Our research emphasizes some of the challenges in formulating effective stream sampling protocols for monitoring a declining species characterized by low densities and patchy distributions.
10.2307/3536739|In 1991 and 1992, we located 14 tree nests of the marbled murrelet (Brachyramphus marmoratus) on Naked, Kodiak, and Afognak islands, Alaska. All nests were in old-growth forests on moss-covered platforms of western hemlock (Tsuga heterophylla; N = 2), mountain hemlock (T. mertensiana; N = 7), and Sitka spruce (Picea sitchensis; N = 5). Most nest trees were located in large tree-size class and volume-class forests (the highest in the region). In addition, 21 trees were recorded where murrelets landed but where nests were not known to occur. The diameters at breast height (dbh) of nest and "landing" trees were 30-104 cm and 35-118 cm, respectively. Naked Island nest and landing trees were similar to each other. They were larger in diameter, had more potential nest platforms, and had greater epiphyte cover than did the 9 closest upper-canopy trees adjacent to each. Nest trees were similar to those at more southern latitudes in that they were old-growth conifers that contained large moss-covered platforms with foliage shielding the nest from above. Sitka spruce possessed qualities that seem to be important to nesting murrelets more frequently than the other 2 conifer species. All 7 nests where reproductive success was known failed due to nest abandonment, predation or unknown causes. Reuse of landing trees, and nesting in a landing tree from the previous year, indicate some degree of site fidelity. The proximity of nest sites on each island suggested clumped or semi-colonial nesting.
10.2307/3536750|In 1992 and 1993, we repeated at-sea surveys of marbled murrelets (Brachyramphus marmoratus) in Clayoquot Sound, British Columbia, that were conducted originally in 1982. Murrelet distribution was determined by counting birds in 341 contiguous 1-km<sup>2</sup> quadrats in fiord, channel, and inshore marine habitats. Counts for this area totaled 4500 birds in 1982, 2704 birds in 1992, and 2622 birds in 1993 which constituted a 40% decline in the population size from 1982-1993. Birds were clumped in all surveys, with the highest densities in inshore (28, 14.3, 7.85 birds / km<sup>2</sup> in 1982, 1992, and 1993, respectively) and channel (11.8, 9.1, 14.2 birds / km<sup>2</sup> in 1982, 1992, and 1993, respectively) marine habitats. The average change in the number of birds in each quadrat between the 1982 and 1992-93 surveys was significant for all quadrats combined, and individually for inshore quadrats. We consider the loss of nesting habitat in old-growth forest to be the probable cause of most of the observed population decline. By 1992 approximately 15-24.5% of the originally forested area in Clayoquot Sound had been logged. Oil spills, gill-net fishing, and oceanographic conditions (El Nio) were also considered as possible factors contributing to the population decline. This study is the first in North America to document a decline in a marbled murrelet population using a single, standardized at-sea survey technique.
10.2307/3536642|Oregon white oak (Quercus garryana) woodlands are an important habitat for breeding birds that is threatened by development and altered disturbance regimes. We described habitat characteristics and examined species composition and abundance of breeding birds in 9 oak woodland sites in the Willamette Valley, Oregon during May and June, 1994 to 1996. Based on comparisons to earlier studies, our results suggest that avian community composition has changed in recent decades. Changes in species composition likely have been associated with a shift from open- to closed-canopy habitats, resulting from successional advancement in the absence of fire. Although there is some evidence that avian species composition has changed to more closely resemble that of closed-canopy, conifer-dominated habitats, oak woodlands in the Willamette Valley nonetheless support both neotropical migrant and resident bird species that are uncommon in or absent from coniferous habitats in western Oregon. We identified 12 species currently occurring in oak woodlands that may be negatively affected by the replacement of oak habitats with closed-canopy, conifer-dominated forest. Because conifers dominate much of the forested regions of western Oregon, Willamette Valley oak woodlands provide an important element of regional diversity and should receive priority consideration in conservation planning. The conservation and management of semi-open woodlands with large-diameter oaks may be particularly critical for some species that have declined in abundance and/or do not occur in dense forests.
41300875|Great Gray Owls (Strix nebulosa) in the Sierra Nevada Mountains feed primarily on rodents, especially voles and pocket gophers. Voles have been shown to be negatively affected by cattle grazing, but effects of grazing on gophers in the Sierra Nevada Mountains are unknown. We investigated the effects of grazing on pocket gophers (Thomomys monticola and T. bottae) in 21 grazed and 21 ungrazed montane meadow sites in the central Sierra Nevada Mountains of California. Pocket gopher densities were significantly higher in grazed meadows than ungrazed meadows. Vegetation cover and height, thatch depth, and the frequency of sedge occurrence were higher in ungrazed meadows and there were negative correlations between pocket gopher densities and these vegetation variables. We suggest that potential negative effects of grazing on Great Gray Owls could be minimized by managing meadow vegetation commensurate with the habitat needs of their prey.
30135116|We studied American Dippers nesting near Juneau, AK, for 4 years. Few dippers in our area live long enough to breed in 3 or more seasons. The nest exterior is composed of a variety of moss species. Nest success ranged from 62 to 87% of first nesting attempts and was lowest in a cool, wet spring. Nesting phenology was delayed in years with cool, wet springs, at higher elevations, and on lowland stream reaches that supported few fish. Second broods were uncommon but were most often reared when 1st broods were early and on stream reaches with ready access to small fish. Hourly chick-feeding rates varied widely, from 0 to 35 trips/h. Fish were delivered to some nests, up to 17 fish/h per nest, especially by female parents. In a few cases a female nested successfully with the same male in 3 successive years. Most changes of mate and territory were associated with the disappearance of 1 member of a pair, and all changes of territory occurred within the same watershed. Females that lost their mates after egg-laying were capable of rearing a brood alone. Some nests were infested with bird-blowflies (Pro-tocalliphoridae). Dippers commonly removed nest lining after fledging of the 1st brood. This behavior can be a good predictor of nest success in the absence of direct observation.
10.2307/3536733|Studies were conducted in a test arena to analyze the chemosensory responses of the masked shrew, Sorex cinereus, to prey odors (crickets, Acheta domesticus). One end of the arena floor was divided into 3 equal sections; 1 of the 2 outer sections contained a piece of filter paper that was treated with cricket (prey) odors, while the other outer section contained paper with no odor cues. The treated and untreated papers were randomly assigned to either outer section. The center section contained no paper at all (neutral area). Individual shrews were allowed to enter the arena and the amount of time spent in each section was recorded. Each shrew received one 30-min trial. Shrews spent a significantly greater amount of time on the cricket-treated paper (x = 15.8, s = 2.3 min) compared to only 6.1 (s = 0.9) min on the untreated paper and 8.1 (s = 1.1) min on the neutral area. There was no significant difference between the time spent on untreated paper vs. the neutral area. This represents the 1st demonstration that the ability of a shrew to detect chemosensory cues associated with prey can significantly affect patch residence time, and it suggests that shrews may use this information to optimize foraging decisions.
4095798|The common raven (Corvus corax) is a widely distributed and opportunistic scavenger and predator. In Calgary, Alberta, ravens were virtually absent in the early 1970s, but by 2000 this species was a regular breeder and common winter visitor. Numbers increased significantly during Christmas Bird Counts from 1970 to 2000. Most birds that occur in Calgary during the winter commute twice daily between a roost in the foothills and a refuse site in the city. The distance between these points is 57.5 km and results in a commute cost that does not appear to be endured by individuals remaining in the foothills. I estimated that refuse-bound birds expend 25% more energy than foothills birds when traveling to known food locations. Upon arrival at the refuse site, individuals compensated for this additional expense by spending more time walking and foraging, which are less-energy-demanding behaviours, and less time flying, which is a high-energy-demanding behavior, than birds in the foothills. The refuse site appears to act as an emergency resource when conditions in the foothills are unfavourable for meeting daily energy requirements. These conditions were mainly caused by decreasing temperature and increasing snow depth in the foothills. Decreasing day length and temperature were factors affecting roost site departure, while decreasing temperature and increasing snow depth resulted in greater numbers of birds commuting. Although the commute has a known cost, a balance is likely realized both in the short term through acquisition of food during stressful conditions and in the long term through increased overwinter survival. The commute may also be advantageous for population increases and range expansion because it exposes birds to new habitats, new food sources, and potential new nest sites along the way.
10.2307/3536529|Coyotes (Canis latrans), raccoons (Procyon lotor), and common ravens (Corvus corax) are important predators on greater sandhill crane (Grus canadensis tabida) eggs at Malheur National Wildlife Refuge, Oregon. Coyotes and ravens occurred historically at Malheur, whereas raccoons were first recorded in 1950. Of 1096 greater sandhill crane clutches (1966 to 1989), coyotes destroyed 214 (20%), raccoons 100 (9%), and ravens 162 (15%). Most cranes at Malheur select coarse, emergent vegetation for nest placement. Nesting success was highest in hardstem bulrush (Scirpus acutus) and lowest in broad-fruited burreed (Sparganium eurycarpum). In bulrush and common cattail (Typha latifolia), there were significantly more well-concealed nests, and success rates were significantly higher than in burreed and meadow. There was no difference in predation rates among concealment categories for raccoons, but ravens took significantly more poorly-concealed nests, while coyotes destroyed more poorly- and fairly-concealed nests than those well concealed. Past predation pressure has likely contributed to the greater use of concealing, coarse, emergent vegetation for nest sites.
10.2307/3536841|I documented segregation of the sexes in a high density population of Roosevelt elk (Cervus elaphus roosevelti) and examined if segregation could be attributed to competition. The population was segregated because the proportion of adult males in groups of females was less than the proportion of adult males in the population. The extent of spatial overlap ranged from 19% in April to May to 53% in August to September. Females were distributed in and near meadows and males occupied meadows and forested habitats. A meadow where >50% of all males and females were observed was partitioned by the sexes. Grazing density (animals per day per ha) was higher in the part of the meadow frequented by females. Scramble competition is at least part of the explanation for sexual segregation in this population.
20628123|We studied Dusky-footed Woodrat (Neotoma fuscipes) abundance and habitat associations in 39 stands of Coast Redwood (Sequoia sempervirens) forest managed for timber production during 1992, 1993, and 1999. Abundance of woodrats ( $\text{M}_{\text{t}+1}$ , number of unique individuals captured) in seedling/pole timber forests (<20 y) was greater than abundance in unthinned and thinned small (21- to 60-y-old) and large sawtimber (61- to 80-y-old) forests. We developed statistical models relating woodrat abundance to forest stand and forest understory covariates collected on trapping grids in thinned forests >50 y old. We used an information-theoretic approach (Akaike's Information Criterion) corrected for small sample sizes to rank models. At the forest stand level, the top-ranked model indicated woodrat abundance was negatively associated with overstory conifer stems >45.7 cm dbh. The top-ranked model relating woodrat abundance to understory habitat variables showed a negative association with log volume, Pacific Rhododendron (Rhododendron macrophyllum) and Salal (Gaultheria shallon) cover, and positive association with total understory cover. Our results from managed Coast Redwood forests of northern California indicate that woodrat abundance was greatest in young, even aged forests 5 to 20 y post-harvest. Because woodrats are a major prey species of Northern Spotted Owls (Strix occidentalis caurina) in northern California, forest management practices conducted at large scales (watershed or Northern Spotted Owl territory levels) that influence woodrat abundance have implications for the management of populations of federally threatened Northern Spotted Owls.
4501985|Prescribed burning and mechanical thinning are widely used to maage fuels in North American forests, but few studies have examined the relative impacts of these treatments on wildlife. Using a fully factorial and completely randomized design, we examined the shortterm effects of prescribed burning (no burn vs. burn), mechanical thinning (no thin, light thin, and heavy thin), and combinations of these treatments on the capture rate and demographic parameters of Lodgepole Chipmunks (Neotamias speciosus) in mixed-conifer forests in the southern Sierra Nevada of California. Chipmunks were sampled in eighteen 4-ha treatment plots during the summer of 1999 and 2000 (pre-treatment) and 2002 and 2003 (post-treatment). Although burning and thinning caused significant changes in forest structure, neither treatment had a significant effect on the capture rate or most demographic parameters of N. speciosus. Body mass of males (2002 and 2003) and the ratio of males to females (2003) decreased following burning. Body mass and percentage reproductive females were positively correlated with the total number of White Fir (Abies concolor) cones produced across treatments and years, possibly reflecting a positive association between chipmunk reproduction and food availability. These results suggest that prescribed burning and mechanical thinning may have minor or no short-term effects on the capture rate and demography of N. speciosus in mixed-conifer forests of the Sierra Nevada, but effects over longer periods have not been investigated.
10.2307/3536738|We studied dawn activity of marbled murrelets (Brachyramphus marmoratus) relative to forest characteristics in the Naked Island group in central Prince William Sound, Alaska, in 1991. The forests were old-growth stands of hemlock (Tsuga mertensiana and T. heterophylla) and Sitka spruce (Picea sitchensis). At 72 sites, murrelet activity  200 m from the observer differed significantly among 4 forest types defined by timber-type coverage on a geographic information system. The lowest detection rates (6.4 / site, SE = 2.4) occurred in forests with  28 cm diameter trees and < 1882 m<sup>3</sup> / ha volume. The 3 forest types with average tree diameter > 28 cm varied in volume from low, moderate and high, and average detection rates in these were 17.6 (SE = 4.7), 24.6 (SE = 4.7), and 14.6 (SE = 4.4), respectively. Subcanopy flight behaviors that indicated nesting comprised 4% of detections, and were observed at 22% of the sites. Subcanopy flight behaviors were most frequent in high tree-size class (larger trees) and moderate-volume forests, and were positively correlated with on-site measurements of the diameter (dbh) of canopy trees. Our results suggest that in forested areas, old-growth forests with mean tree diameter > 46 cm dbh, especially inland of bays, provide important nesting habitat in Prince William Sound. The U.S. Forest Service timber database was a relatively useful tool for identifying potential nesting habitat in Prince William Sound.
10.2307/3536766|The daytime distribution of a known population of rhinoceros auklets (Cerorhinca monocerata) in Washington was determined through censuses from aircraft and from points on shore where auklets passed. Auklets concentrated in waters of > 20 m depth in areas of strong tidal currents, and near a few offshore banks. About 80-85 of the birds foraged within 37 km of the main colony on Protection Island.
23259687|In order to conserve populations of woodpeckers in managed forests of the inland Northwest, managers require information about the nest substrates (for example, trees and snags) in which woodpeckers excavate cavities and the habitat characteristics surrounding those substrates. I describe and compare the nest-site characteristics of the White-headed Woodpecker (Picoides albolarvatus), Hairy Woodpecker (Picodes villosus), and Northern Flicker (Colaptes auratus) in burned and unburned logged Ponderosa Pine (Pinus ponderosa) stands of the eastern Cascade Range of Washington, 2003 to 2010. All 3 woodpecker species most frequently excavated cavities in well-decayed snags. In burned stands, Northern Flickers used nest substrates that had a larger mean diameter at breast height (dbh) than those used by Hairy Woodpeckers, and that were shorter in height than those used by Hairy and White-headed Woodpeckers. Northern Flickers also excavated cavities lower in height than Hairy Woodpecker cavities. In unburned stands, flickers used nest substrates with larger dbh than those used by Hairy and White-headed Woodpeckers. Despite these differences, overall similarity among the nest sites of the 3 species suggests that they make similar use of managed Ponderosa Pine stands for breeding in Washington.
4501962|Many reptile species are rarely encountered and are thus assumed to be rare in the absence of evidence to the contrary. The sharp-tailed snake (Contia tenuis) is a species about which little is known due to its secretive behavior. This species has been classified as "Vulnerable" in Oregon based on scant data about its distribution and status. We searched extensively for published and unpublished records of its occurrence and conducted field searches for the species to clarify its current distribution and status in Oregon. The information reported here expands the known range and increases the number of reported sightings of this species by almost a factor of ten. We conclude that, contrary to some reports, C. tenuis is not rare in Oregon. The secretive behavior of C. tenuis may have resulted in the species being unnecessarily listed as "vulnerable" as it appears to be more widespread than previously thought.
10.2307/3536801|Mean (SE) litter size based on counts of pigmented sites of implantation for 59 female Thomomys bulbivorus collected in July-October 1987-1990 at 10 sites in the Willamette Valley, Oregon, was 4.68  0.17; there were no significant differences among localities or years (p > 0.05). At one locality, an irrigated filbert (Corylus auellana) orchard, one postpartum female and three females without prior reproductive experience were reproductively active in mid-August; parturition would have occurred in September. The postpartum female provided evidence for multiple litters and all extended the known breeding season by 6 weeks. Secondary compounds in rapidly growing plants in response to irrigation possibly were the environmental cues initiating summer breeding, and were postulated to initiate onset of breeding at other seasons.
4501968|We describe molars that represent the 1st fossils of Lemmiscus curtatus from Hagerman Fossil Beds National Monument (HAFO), Idaho. This species figures prominently in the biochronology of North American terrestrial deposits, so the possible ages of these records are discussed in detail. Most fossils from HAFO are from the middle Blancan (middle Pliocene), but these molars are likely from the Pleistocene or Holocene epoch, which is consistent with the temporal distribution of L. curtatus elsewhere.
41300877|To better understand historical breeding distribution and population changes, breeding records from the period 1858-1910 (most pre-dating previous summaries) were assembled for 4 species of alcid in British Columbia (BC) and southeastern Alaska (SEAK), based on re-evaluation of museum specimens, literature, and unpublished sources. Earliest records for each species were: Ancient Murrelet (Synthliboramphus antiquus) at St Lazaria Island, SEAK, in 1866; Cassin's Auklet (Ptychoramphus aleuticus) at Forrester Island, SEAK, in 1897; Rhinoceros Auklet (Cerorhinca monocerata) at Pine Island, BC, in 1860; and Tufted Puffin (Fratercula cirrhata) at Mandarte Island, BC, in 1858. Other breeding records for these species in BC and SEAK prior to 1911 were reviewed, historical literature was clarified, and certain historical population changes of Rhinoceros Auklets and Tufted Puffins were examined.
23259632|Bat gates are installed at the entrances of abandoned mines to protect bat habitat and ensure human safety; however, the response of bats to gates has received little study. Using mist nets and video surveys, we compared use of abandoned mines in northern Idaho by bats (species, entries, and behavior), before and after installation of bat gates, with bat use at ungated reference mines. The number of bat species using mines and the number of individual bats entering mines declined significantly at mines where gates were installed, but not at ungated mines. In addition, 3 of 7 behaviors recorded (entry looping, flying in front, and entry retreating) changed noticeably in frequency of occurrence at experimental mines after being gated, but these changes were not statistically significant. Our data suggest that, in the short-term, bat gates decreased the use of mines by bats and changed their behavior at the abandoned mines we studied. However, our results should be viewed cautiously, given our small sample sizes.
10.2307/3536518|During the three winters (1980 to 1984) in Nampa, Canyon County, of southwestern Idaho, 17 sharp-shinned hawks (Accipiter striatus) were trapped, banded and measured at a backyard bird feeder trapping station. Mean mass of 5 females was 172.4 g (range 163 to 185) and mean wing chord for 6 females was 201.8 mm (range 197 to 209). Mean mass for 12 males was 103.1 g (range 94 to 115) and mean wing for 18 males was 174.8 mm (range 168 to 180). Five, 6 and 10 sharp-shinned hawks were trapped during the 3 winters with 6 individuals being recaptured during either the same winter (2) or a 2nd winter (4) resulting in 23 captures with additional sightings of marked birds for a total of 29 encounters. Repeat encounters during the same, 2nd, and 3rd winters strongly suggest some winter fidelity for this accipiter in urban areas of southwestern Idaho. Urban bird feeders concentrate prey of appropriate body size in suitable habitat which enhances opportunities for sharp-shinned hawk foraging.
4095765|Many habitat restoration projects for Pacific salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.) have placed wood structures in streams. We observed beaver (Castor canadensis) consistently using 3 wood structures placed in the Bear River as foundations for dams, which provided pool habitat for juvenile salmon. Determining why beaver used some structures and not others could help to increase the efficacy of wood placement through use by beaver. We conducted an exploratory study using model selection procedures based on Akaike's information criteria to assess the hypothesis that there were characteristics of the wood structures and their immediate environment that influenced use by beaver. A literature review and field observations were used to develop 7 logistic regression models and the parameters of those models were estimated with data from 55 in-stream wood structures. One model had overwhelming support (Akaike weight = 0.9801) as the best in the set of 7 examined. Variables in that model described both in-stream characteristics (channel confinement; and distance to log jams, deep pools, and beaver bank dens) and riparian conditions (floodplain width and hillside slope). Structures used by beaver were in unconfined channels, farther from other logjams, closer to deep pools and bank dens, in wider floodplains, and with less steep hillsides. The logistic regression model is a resource selection probability function that may be useful in designing wood placement projects if restoration ecologists and managers wish to enlist the services of beaver.
10.2307/3536751|Strip transects from boat and light aircraft were used to quantify the distribution and abundance of marbled murrelets (Brachyramphus marmoratus) along the length of the Oregon coast. Murrelets were abundant in central Oregon between Newport and Coos Bay, with observed densities averaging 78 birds / 10-km by 100-m strip (N = 90, SE = 5.9). Murrelets were relatively scarce north of Lincoln City (x = 6.8 birds / 10-km by 100-m strip, N = 32, SE = 1.2), with small concentrations near coastal State Parks that contained old-growth forest stands. Murrelet abundance was variable from Coos Bay to the California border (x = 28.4, N = 22, SE = 5.9). Highest densities occurred in a narrow band and decreased sharply at > 1 km from shore. There was evidence of a northward and offshore shift of the population late in July, which may have been related to a prey shift from surf smelt (Hypomesus sp.) to Pacific sandlance (Ammodytes hexapterus) or to post-breeding dispersal. The abundance of marbled murrelets seen during this study suggests that the population in Oregon is higher than previously estimated.
10.2307/3536918|Between 1978 and 1988, we recorded reproductive information from populations of ranid frogs in Colorado and Wyoming. Egg masses from five plains and montane populations of northern leopard frogs (Rana pipiens) contained 645-6272 eggs (x = 3045, N = 68 egg masses). In two montane populations of wood frogs (Rana sylvatica) numbers of eggs per egg mass varied from 711-1248 (x = 876, N = 15) and probably were equal to total clutch size. Mean hatching success was 90% in egg masses from one R. sylvatica population and ranged from 70% to 99% in R. pipiens egg masses. Rana pipiens egg masses from one location were assigned to three overlapping size distributions, which we believe reflects the underlying age structure of female frogs.
30131047|Bottom trawl nets towed at 17 stations from Bering Strait to the northwestern Chukchi Sea during the 1st cruise of the Russian-American Long-term Census of the Arctic (RUSALCA) in August 2004 caught 33 or more species of fishes distributed among 10 families. The families with the most species were Cottidae (8), Zoarcidae (6 or 7), and Agonidae (4). The 4 most abundant fishes were Gymnocanthus tricuspis (Cottidae), Myoxocephalus scorpius groenlan-dicus (Cottidae), Hippoglossoides robustus (Pleuronectidae), and Boreogadus saida (Gadidae), collectively accounting for 79% of the catch by numbers. Theragra chalcogramma, H. robustus, and M. polyacanthocephalus occurred farther north than previously recorded. We found the 2nd and 3rd records of occurrence of Liparis fabricii for the Chukchi Sea and a new maximum size for that species; and the 2nd record of Pallasina barbata for the Chukchi Sea. New studies of fresh and archived material clarified historical distributions and enabled more accurate identification of species such as M. scorpius, Hexagrammos stelleri, Hemilepidotus (Melletes) papilio, Podothecus veternus, Lycodes mucosus, and L, polaris. Some fishes, notably Gymnelus, could not be readily identified. Color photographs of fresh specimens should assist in field identifications of species that are difficult to identify or are often misidentified.
30135113|We used track plates to monitor American Marten (Maries americana) over 2 field seasons in 2003 and 2004 to test the efficacy of applying this technique to Late-Successional Reserves on the east side of the North Cascades. We stratified our sample area into wet and dry late-successional forest habitats in order to account for differences in habitat structure, disturbance regimes, and forest management strategies. We detected no Marten during either year in the dry-forest habitats. In the wet-forest habitats, detection rates were 0.29 in 2003 and 0.73 in 2004. The latency to detection in the wet-forest habitats was 5.5 d (s = 3.1) in 2003 and 5.6 d (s = 3.8) in 2004. The corrected probability of detection at a survey unit in the wet-forest habitat was 0.26 in 2003 and 0.42 in 2004. We then used the variability from our 2 sample years to estimate sample size requirements for different levels of power to detect changes in our abundance indices. Our study indicates that conservation efforts for the American Marten should be focused on the wet-forest habitats. This information should be useful to managers in designing a long-term monitoring program for American Marten.
40983227|We investigated the diet and foraging behavior of a putative generalist predator, the Terrestrial Gartersnake, (Thamnophis elegans) along a stream in central Washington State, USA. Snakes were collected, with the sex, mass, and snout-vent length (SVL) of each recorded. Snakes were categorized by SVL into 3 grotups (<300, 301-500, and >500 mm SVL). Snake SVL and mass ranged from 190-723 mm SVL ( = 425, s = 140.41), and 3.6-150.5 ( = 43.3, s = 38.5) respectively. Of the 263 snakes collected, 138 contained 141 prey items. The most abundant prey items were crayfish (n = 79, 56.2% of total), followed by cottid (n = 32, 22.6%) and cyprinid (n = 17, 12.0%) fish, and slugs (n = 13, 9.2%). The smallest group of snakes fed primarily on cyprinid fish and some slugs. These snakes foraged (sit and wait within runs), while perched on rocks or logs. The intermediate size class foraged along riffles, runs, and in pools, and had the broadest diet, feeding on cottid and cyprinid fish, crayfish, and slugs. The largest snakes were the most specialized, feeding primarily on crayfish while foraging in pools. Our data show that some individuals in this population of T. elegans undergo an ontogenetic shift in both diet (vertebrate to invertebrate) and foraging behavior (sit and wait to underwater foraging). This is also the 1st population of Thamnophis documented to feed primarily on crayfish.
10.2307/3536765|In June and July 1989, we surveyed adult pigeon guillemots (Cepphus columba) associated with potential nesting habitat along the west coast of Vancouver Island, B.C. We recorded 856 birds on 54 islands. Three islands accounted for 70% of the total, but 85% of nesting aggregations held 1-10 birds. No breeding sites were found on Vancouver Island shorelines, probably due to a lack of suitable nest-sites inaccessible to ground predators. On occupied islands, a variety of nest-site types were used, largely reflecting their availability. Numbers of adult pigeon guillemots were correlated significantly with numbers of apparently occupied nests of other surface-nesting birds, that is pelagic cormorant (Phalacrocorax pelagicus), glaucous-winged gull (Larus glaucescens), and black oystercatcher (Haematopus bachmani). A seasonal movement to inshore waters, away from the exposed western coastlines of Vancouver Island in winter, probably reduced the effect on this species from the Nestucca oil spill off northwestern Washington in the 1988-89 winter.
41811919|Several taxa of marine fishes are capable of both aquatic and terrestrial locomotion, yet the terrestrial locomotion mechanics of many of these taxa have not been studied. Many species of the prickleback family Stichaeidae, including the Rock Prickleback, Xiphister mucosus, are capable of both aquatic and terrestrial locomotion. In this study, high-speed video was used to compare the mechanics of aquatic and terrestrial locomotion of X. mucosus. While swimming, tailbeats occur faster, and the velocities of the head and tail are greater than on land. On land, tailbeats are slower and cover a longer distance, yet the distance traveled by the head is similar to the distance traveled during aquatic locomotion. Froude propulsion efficiencies during swimming average 0.75 (s = 0.05) indicating efficient swimming mechanics in X. mucosus. These efficiency values are typical for other anguilliform swimmers that make terrestrial excursions. Overall, X. mucosus makes slight modifications to its efficient swimming locomotion mechanics, principally by increasing movement of the tail, to move effectively over the terrestrial environment.
40856472|From 2002 to 2007 we measured breeding territory, nest patch, and nest shrub characteristics for Yellow-breasted Chats (Icteria vixens auricollis) in the northern edge of their distribution in British Columbia, Canada. Surveys were done at 94 breeding territories, 238 nest patches, 246 nest shrubs, and at random locations for comparison. Habitat selection by chats was not random, and territories were selected for specific vegetation characteristics. Chat breeding territories were located in lower elevation riparian zones consisting mainly of dense shrubs and early successional water-tolerant trees, with the dominant shrub species being wild rose (Rosa spp.). Chats nested in 12 plant species and 72% of nests were within wild rose, which was also the dominant species in 5 m and 11.3 m radius nest patch plots centered at the nest shrub. Based on georeferenced locations of male chat singing or perching locations, chat breeding territories were on average 0.37 ha (s = 0.27 ha) in size (n = 66).
43286405|Glaucous-winged Gulls (Larus glaucescens) and Western Gulls (Larus occidentalis) are found along the Pacific Coast of North America. Where their breeding ranges overlap in Oregon and Washington they hybridize, producing a continuum of phenotypic variation. Whereas most colonies containing these hybrids are found on islands along the coast, several, including a large colony at Protection Island National Wildlife Refuge, WA, USA, are located in the Salish Sea. In 2010, we scored the phenotypes of 81 gull pairs at the Protection Island colony using an index based on plumage melanism and bare-part coloration. We also monitored the breeding success of these pairs. Gulls from the entire range of phenotypes in the L. glaucescens-occidentalis complex bred on the colony, although most gulls appeared more like L. glaucescens. Significant assortative mating based on colorimetrie phenotype occurred on the colony, but a low number of L. occidentalis-type pairs appeared primarily responsible for this trend. Although the mass of the 3rd egg in the clutch was significantly smaller for pairs with increasingly L. occidentalis-like males, we observed no significant difference in hatching success or clutch size across the range of phenotypes.
10.2307/3536711|We determined the current distribution of fishers (Martes pennanti) in Washington using sighting and trapping records, and evaluated their occurrence in relation to major vegetation and elevation zones. We obtained 137 records dating from 1894-1991. Martes pennanti still occurs in the Cascade Range and Olympic Mountains and in portions of the Okanogan Highlands, but is apparently very rare. We found no records from the eastern edge of Puget Sound, the Kitsap Peninsula, the southern Coast Range, or the Blue Mountains. Records of M. pennanti west of the Cascade crest were strongly skewed toward low to mid-elevations: 87% were at <1000 m and the remainder were at <1800 m. In contrast, only 30% of records east of the crest were at <1000 m, and 18% were from 1800-2200 m. These patterns may result from deeper, softer snowpacks at high elevations on the west side, which restrict the movements of M. pennanti in winter. Most western records (54%) were from the Western hemlock (Tsuga heterophylla) forest zone; remaining records were from the Pacific silver fir (Abies amabilis) zone (26%) and the Sitka spruce (Picea sitchensis) zone (20%). Most eastern records (53%) were from the Subalpine fir (Abies lasiocarpa) zone; others were from the Grand fir (Abies grandis)/Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) (37%) and Timberline/Alpine zones (10%). We predict that available habitat for fishers would be enhanced by minimizing forest fragmentation, maintaining high forest-floor structural diversity, preserving snags and live trees with dead tops, and protecting swamps and other forested wetlands.
43286402|The Cascade Range has generally partitioned sister species and populations into western and eastern forms, although north-south phylogeographic breaks within the Cascades have also been documented. We examined the relationships between and within 2 species of jumping mice, Zapus trinotatus (Pacific Jumping Mouse) and Z. princeps (Western Jumping Mouse), in Washington, Oregon, and southern British Columbia. From 24 localities we sampled 135 specimens and generated sequence data for 782 base pairs of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) control region and cytochrome-fr. The 2 species were geographically partitioned to the east and west in concordance with the Cascades. However, in both northern Washington and southern Oregon, we found individuals with mtDNA haplotypes assigned to both species in syntopy, at the same sampling localities. Within Z. trinotatus, clades were further subdivided north and south, with a genealogical break across the Columbia River. Zapus princeps clades were also divided north and south, but with deeper divergences than within Z. trinotatus. We conclude that while the Cascade Range has contributed to the historic and contemporary partitioning of these 2 species, it does not represent an absolute barrier, as evidenced by syntopic localities.
10.2307/3536822|We studied the distribution of American marten (Martes americana) and short-tailed weasels (Mustela erminea anguinae) on northern Vancouver Island, British Columbia, over 2 winters from 1996 to 1998. We tested a combination of track plates and remote cameras to detect marten and weasels in 4 broadly different habitats: early seral cut-blocks, regenerating cut-blocks, old forests, and grassy edge habitats. We measured vegetation structure at many sample sites in order to describe habitats where marten and weasels were detected. We detected similar numbers of marten in all of the low elevation forest stands sampled; fewer marten were detected in grassy edge habitats than in forested stands. Weasels were detected at sites with open forest and little structure compared to forested stands. Weasels were detected primarily in edge habitats associated with forest openings or riparian areas dominated by grass ground cover. We used rotten bait and lure, instead of fresh bait, to make sites most attractive to marten and weasels. We used 7-day checks which allowed us to trap more sites than shorter check intervals. Track plate boxes worked well for detecting marten and weasels though we suggest extending the roof and sides at both ends of the box 20 cm beyond the floor to provide greater protection from rain. Cameras were expensive, heavy, and failed to detect marten more often than track plates. We suggest that cameras be used only to identify unknown tracks or early in a study to determine appropriate methods.
30131045|Creating artificial refugia through the use of polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipes to capture hylid treefrogs has been examined in the Eastern United States and Caribbean, but has not been evaluated in the Pacific Northwest. We compared the effectiveness of ground-based and tree-based PVC pipes for capturing the Pacific Treefrog (Pseudacris regilla) in northwestern California. We recorded a total of 464 P. regilla captures. Probability of use increased asymptotically over our 28-d sampling period and was higher (6-20%) for tree-based than ground-based pipe refugia. Tree-based pipe refugia caught 81% more P. regilla than ground-based pipe refugia but latency to first detection did not vary significantly. Probability of use was higher for pipe refugia that had been used in a previous study than for new pipes, but age did not influence capture rate or latency to detection. Our results support the hypothesis that tree-based pipe refugia are more effective than ground-based pipes for capturing P. regilla, as well as the hypothesis that P. regilla actively discriminate among refugia. Using tree-based PVC pipe refugia to monitor P. regilla may be more effective than current techniques for addressing many research questions.
10.2307/3536631|Field observations made in 1993 suggested that rodents were preying on spotted knapweed (Centaurea maculosa) seedheads, possibly targeting the gall fly larvae (Urophora spp.) which overwinter within them. I conducted a brief study to determine the cause of seedhead predation and quantify gall fly predation. Stomachs were examined from 19 deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus) captured in the fall of 1993 and winter of 1997. All individuals had preyed upon gall fly larvae. The mean number of gall fly larvae found in 10 deer mouse stomachs in the winter of 1997 was 212.8. The minimum number of larvae consumed by these 10 animals for 1 night of foraging was 2686. Availability of a concentrated protein that is a readily accessible and abundant resource during winter may elevate deer mouse populations in knapweed-in-fested habitats. Increases in densities of deer mice due to gall fly presence could bring about shifts in composition of small mammal communities.
10.2307/3536517|We summarize 22,682 observations of 15 species of cetaceans from Southeast Farallon Island off San Francisco, California, 1973 to 1994. Gray whales (Eschrichtius robustus) accounted for 63% of the observations. Most of these were of migrant individuals in the winter and spring, but up to 10 summer/fall residents were also recorded around the island each year. The other 14 species were recorded primarily from July to November. Observations of all cetaceans and of several different species increased significantly during the 22-yr period. These increases may be related to population recoveries due to protection of the large whale species, possible increases or changes in food resources in the Gulf of the Farallones region, possible observer biases, or likely, a combination of these factors. The occurrence of Pacific sardine (Sardinops sagax) in the region during the last three years of the study may have resulted in changes in the distributions of several species.
3536875|Phylogeography of northern populations of the Pacific treefrog, Pseudacris regilla, was investigated using mitochondrial cytochrome b sequence data (725 bp). Thirty-six haplotypes were detected among 59 samples collected from 20 populations. Two divergent coastal and inland clades were supported by several phylogenetic analyses including maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian methods. Sequence differences among these clades ranged from 5.0 to 6.5%, suggesting they diverged during the Pliocene (approximately 3 MYA), coinciding with High Cascade orogeny and subsequent xerification of the Columbia Basin. Further, haplotype divergence within each clade was lower (0 to 1.8%), possibly as a consequence of population reduction during the Pleistocene. The overall pattern of divergence was not detected by previous morphological and protein analysis and is concordant with many other Northwest taxa. These results do not support previous intraspecific classification schemes, indicating the need for further examination of the taxonomic status of the coastal and inland clades.
10.2307/3536702|Telemetry was used to study roost fidelity of 10 reproductive female silver-haired bats (Lasionycteris noctivagans) in northeastern Oregon. Fidelity varied among individuals. Five bats used only 1 or 2 roosts from 8 to at least 13 days; 3 bats used 5 or 6 roosts from 1 to 6 days. Radiotagged bats that were in the same colony stayed together during shifts among roosts. Bats moved 35 to 1100 m between successive roosts and that distance was positively correlated with number of days stayed at the previous roost. Distance from a roost to the nearest potential alternate roost varied from 8 to 230 m and that distance also correlated with residency time at the previous roost. Both correlations indicate that availability of alternate roosts may be 1 factor affecting the balance between the benefits of fidelity and the benefits of lability. Limited availability of alternate roosts may lead to greater roost fidelity of lactating females, perhaps as a mechanism for reducing energetic costs of moving juveniles long distances.
10.2307/3536837|Common murres, Uria aagle, and rhinoceros auklets, Cerorhinca monocerata, were the 2 species entangled most frequently in sockeye and chum salmon gillnets in northern and central Puget Sound, Washington, in 1993 and 1994; they comprised more than 90% of all entangled seabirds. The ratio of entangled murres to auklets decreased about 5-fold from approximately 10:1 in 1993 to 2:1 in 1994. Most murres (63%) entangled were adults, whereas most auklets (63%) entangled were hatch-year birds. No significant differences in sex ratio could be detected among age classes of these species within or between fisheries (sockeye versus chum) or years, nor did observed sex ratios deviate significantly from an expected 1:1 sex ratio. During the sockeye fishery (early July through early September), 52% of subadult and adult murres were in breeding plumage, whereas 46% had begun molting flight feathers; by the chum fishery (late September through late November), only 18% were still molting flight feathers, whereas 77% had completed molting their flight feathers. All auklets were in breeding plumage having not yet begun flight-feather molt. No adult murres had visible incubation patches during the sockeye fishery. Because murres fledge from Oregon colonies at least a month earlier than they do from Washington colonies, adult murres from Oregon grow their incubation patches back at least a month earlier as well; this suggests that at least some entangled adult murres came from Oregon. Similarly, some hatch-year murres were entangled in Puget Sound before murre chicks fledged from Washington (or more northerly) colonies, again indicating that at least some hatch-year murres fledged from Oregon colonies.
20628110|The Western Toad (Anaxyrus boreas) is an IUCN red-listed species affected by habitat destruction and emerging infectious diseases. We tested for the chytrid fungus Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis (Bd) in a breeding population of toads in southwestern British Columbia. Although the toads showed no physical signs of infection, 28% of 32 toads tested positive for Bd. To our knowledge, this study provides the first evidence of the chytrid fungus in a population of Western Toads in British Columbia. We also compared body condition to infection prevalence and found no significant relationship. Monitoring population trends and further testing for Bd prevalence are required throughout the province.
10.2307/3536546|Eggshells of eight species of wild birds with different foraging habitats were analyzed by X-ray fluorescence spectrometry. Calcium, barium, copper, iron, strontium, and zinc were present in measurable amounts in most of the samples. Birds of riverine habitats (great blue herons and ospreys) had on the average, higher concentrations of zinc in their eggshells than did Canada geese. However, the greatest concentration of zinc (450 ppm) was measured in the eggshell of a terrestrial foraging, ferruginous hawk. Eggshells from the unhatched eggs of Swainson's hawks and ospreys had lower concentrations of calcium than hatched eggs of other species.
10.2307/3536746|To identify potential marbled murrelet (Brachyramphus marmoratus) nesting habitat we surveyed western Prince William Sound, Alaska, for murrelet activity between 12 June and 3 August 1992. We evaluated methods specific to boat-based surveys (vessel and shoreline) by comparing the number of murrelet detections and subcanopy flights during dawn watches adjacent to inland stations. We conducted boat-based surveys from a 19-m vessel (N = 44) and from shoreline stations (N = 23), and concurrently from adjacent inland stations (N = 17). Murrelet activity level and seasonal variation of activity were not significantly different when conducted from the vessel or from shoreline and were similar to surveys at adjacent inland stations. Survey stations near bay heads had higher activity levels than those near exposed coastlines, with the exception of bays that were glaciated or recently deglaciated. We used a timber-type database on a geographic information system to analyze relationships between murrelet activity and habitat within a 1-km radius of each survey station. Forested habitat, particularly forests with trees > 28 cm diameter, showed the strongest correlation to murrelet activity. Boat-based surveys are useful for a preliminary identification of potential murrelet nesting areas in remote and otherwise inaccessible, coastal habitat.
10.2307/3536863|I conducted a year-long study along the Oregon central coast to determine what seabird taxa fly along the near shore, the significance of any directional flight, and changes in abundance through the year. I counted flying birds according to flight direction during 477 5-min watches conducted over 49 census days from April 1991 to March 1992. Intervals of census days for each taxon based on flight direction, abundance, or both were tested for significance of flight direction. Loon, shearwater, scoter, and murre flight occurred in significant directional runs. Loons, scoters, and murres conformed to previously described flight direction patterns, and shearwater flight conformed to previous observations but not to expected migration patterns. Cormorant flight direction was random. Abundance or flight direction of pelicans, shore-birds, and other ducks and alcids corresponded to previously described migration patterns, seasonal ranges, and molts.
20628142|In 2003 to 2008, we conducted surveys to document the eastern and northern range limits of Red Tree Voles (Arborimus longicaudus) in the Columbia River Gorge and Hood River basin, Oregon. Our survey indicated the current range of the vole includes the area from Wahkeena Creek, 20 km east of Troutdale to Seneca Fouts State Park, 6 km west of Hood River. We also found a concentration of Red Tree Vole nests in the headwaters of the Lake Branch of Hood River, 27 km southwest of the town of Hood River. Of 70 vole nests located, 36 (52%) were old unoccupied nests with no evidence of recent use, 24 (34%) were unoccupied but had evidence of recent use as indicated by the presence of fresh green resin ducts or cuttings in the nest, and 10 (14%) were occupied by voles. Of the 70 vole nests, 74% were in forests dominated by mature or old-growth trees and 26% were in stands 25- to 60-y-old. This survey is the first to document the existence of Red Tree Voles in the upper Columbia River Gorge east of Cascade Locks. It also documents the occurrence of Red Tree Voles on the east slope of the Cascade Range in the headwaters of the Lake Branch of Hood River.
23259686|In September 2010, 6 species of shrews (genus: Sorex) were collected at a single locality on the Seward Peninsula of Alaska. Such high sympatric diversity within a single mammalian genus is seldom realized. This phenomenon at high latitudes highlights complex Arctic community dynamics that reflect significant turnover through time as a consequence of environmental change. Each of these shrew species occupies a broad geographic distribution collectively spanning the entire Holarctic, although the study site lies within Eastern Beringia, near the periphery of all individual ranges. A review of published genetic evidence reflects a depauperate shrew community within ice-free Beringia through the last glaciation, and recent assembly of current diversity during the Holocene.
41300879|Fisher (Martes pennanti) occur broadly across northcentral North America, and are a species of conservation concern in most of western North America. Fisher reach the northwestern edge of their distributional range in the Yukon, Canada; however, their abundance and distribution has been poorly documented there. We used museum collections, trapping records, and sightings to update the relative abundance and distribution of Fisher in the Yukon between 1956 and 2009, with a particular emphasis on the last 3 decades. We compiled 100 records of Fisher that were trapped, observed, or whose tracks were noted in the Yukon. Harvest data suggested that Fisher may be increasing in relative abundance in the Yukon, but densities likely are very low. Anecdotal observations and harvest of Fisher in southwestern Yukon have increased in the last 10 to 20 y and suggest that they may be expanding their range westward. Trapping records and museum collections in adjacent Alaska and northwestern British Columbia corroborate records from the Yukon. Monitoring Fisher will be necessary to confirm changes in the abundance and distribution of Fisher in the Yukon and neighboring jurisdictions.
40856458|The Sharp-tailed Snake (Contia tennis) is a small (usually <30 cm total length), cryptic species found along the west coast of the United States and north into southwestern British Columbia. Because of its secretive nature, little is known about its behavioral ecology. We tested behavioral responses of 13 adult C. tennis collected from a site in eastern Washington to potential invertebrate prey odors. We presented snakes with 2 control odors (water, cologne) and 2 possible invertebrate prey odors (earthworm, slug). Overall, there was a significant difference in both the time-to-first-tongue flick (latency) and mean tongue flick rate (number of tongue flicks/60 s trial) for the odors tested. The mean latency period was 6.0  1.87 s for earthworm and 4.1  1.57 s for slug. The mean tongue flick rates for earthworm and slug were 13.8  4.09 flicks/s and 39.7  15.79 flicks/s, respectively. These results support prior claims of a preference for slugs by C. tennis. This preference for slugs may also explain the presence of tennis in areas of anthropogenic disturbances with an abundance of slugs.
10.2307/3536627|On 13 June 1993, a new Kittlitz's murrelet (Brachyramphus brevirostris) nest was discovered near Red Mountain on the Kenai Peninsula, Alaska. The nest was on a 22 slope at about 900 m elevation with a northeast aspect, and contained a 60.2  40.6 mm egg that weighed 49.0 g. Downy feathers and weathered fecal material found at the nest indicated re-use from a previous year, suggesting possible nest site fidelity. The nest was located in an area scoured by winds and free of snow during early spring, suggesting that this may be an important mesoscale factor influencing selection of nesting habitat. Proximity to suitable foraging habitat, particularly sheltered bays and glacial river outflows, may affect breeding habitat choice over larger spatial scales.
30131044|Despite an abundance of studies describing nest selection in cavity-nesting birds, few account for the variation in habitat availability across the geographic range of a species and through time. Changes in the frequency of disturbances such as fires, timber harvests, and insect outbreaks can dramatically alter habitat. Responses by cavity-nesting birds to these changes provide an opportunity to evaluate underlying determinants of nest selection. We compared nest site attributes to available resources for 3 species of cavity-nesting birds: the Pileated Woodpecker (Dryocopus pileatus), Williamson's Sapsucker (Sphyrapicus thyroideus), and Black-backed Woodpecker (Picoides arcticus). Data collected in 2003-2004 were compared to data collected in the 1970s in the same study area to identify changes in patterns of selection. Due to severe insect outbreaks, available resources differed greatly between the 2 time periods. In studies separated by 30 y, Pileated Woodpeckers and Black-backed Woodpeckers exhibited remarkable consistency in patterns of nest site selection. Both species still selected Ponderosa Pine (Pinus ponderosa) snags preferentially for nesting despite their decline in availability. Williamson's Sapsuckers were less selective and nested in the most abundant snag species during both time periods. Selection for factors such as tree size and degree of decay remained consistent regardless of differences in habitat availability for the 3 species. By identifying these general patterns of nest site selection, our conclusions are applicable to a wider variety of habitat conditions.
10.2307/3536743|Two marbled murrelet (Brachyramphus marmoratus) nest trees were found on commercial forest land in Humboldt County, California in 1992. Nest tree and stand structural information was collected from each site and compared. Nests were located in large (> 229 cm dbh), old-growth, coast redwood (Sequoia sempervirens) trees with 100% cover above the nest cup. Canopy cover within 50 m of the nest trees was 38% and 42%. Nest trees were the dominant trees within a 0.1-ha area surrounding the nest tree, in terms of crown diameter, height and dbh.
4501976|We assessed 4 methods of attaching transmitters to nestling Common Ravens (Corvus corax) in Grand Teton National Park, Wyoming, in preparation for a larger telemetry study. The attachment types included backpack style with a cross-chest harness, rump mount ("figure-8"), necklace, and tarsal mounts. We tested 2 to 5 transmitters of each attachment type and recorded the ease of attachment, agitation of the ravens (from the nestling stage through the post-fledging dependence period) caused by the transmitters, and any noticeable abrasions caused by the attachment. We preferred the tarsal mount attachment because the transmitters can be placed on the bird early in the nestling stage and 1 person can attach it quickly. We did not prefer the other methods. The necklace mount became "bridled" between the bird's upper and lower mandible and/or fell off. Backpack and rump mounts required extensive fitting time, and we felt they should not be used until the nestlings had attained maximum growth, reducing the window of time for attachment.
30131043|Reproductive success of American White Pelicans (Pelecanus erythrorhynchos) was monitored at a nesting colony on Anaho Island, Pyramid Lake, Nevada in 1996 as part of an environmental contaminants study. Reproductive success was normal based on hatching rates of eggs (
40856473|The macfarlanei subspecies of the Western Screech-owl (Megascops kennicottii) resides in the dry southern interior of British Columbia and is federally endangered in Canada. We captured and radio-tagged 11 adult screech-owls (6M, 5F) between July 2005 and January 2008 to collect ecological information needed to direct effective conservation. We collected point radiolocations from tagged owls to estimate seasonal and year-round home ranges with the 95% isopleth of the utilization distribution calculated using fixed kernel methods. Screech-owl home ranges averaged 64.5 ha (s = 10.6, n = 5), with no substantial difference in size between males and females. Owls used considerably smaller areas during the breeding season ( = 20.4 ha, s = 15.3, n = 7) than the non-breeding season ( = 88.6 ha, s = 44.5, n = 6). During the breeding season, males and females of a single pair overlapped extensively, whereas outside the breeding season very little overlap occurred within pairs. We did not detect overlap between neighbouring pairs. Home ranges of Western Screech-owls were highly associated with riparian forests; most screech-owls had > 10 ha of riparian forested habitats within their home ranges. These results have implications for habitat conservation for this endangered species.
43286401|Increased fisheries survey effort over the last decade by the US National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), Alaska Fisheries Science Center (AFSC), through its Resource Assessment and Conservation Engineering (RACE) and Fisheries Monitoring and Analysis (FMA) Divisions, has allowed biologists to collect voucher specimens and document the geographic distribution of marine fishes in Alaskan waters, including commercially important species as well as those more rarely encountered. A vouchering system allows for confirmation of field identifications, and access to specimens is ensured by their deposition at the University of Washington Burke Museum Fish Collection (UWFC). Herein we report the 1st Alaskan records for 10 species, the 1st Bering Sea records for 10 species, the 2nd or 3rd Alaskan records for 13 species, significant range extensions in the Bering Sea for 17 species, 9 species in the Aleutian Islands, 11 species in the Gulf of Alaska, and 8 species for which new records fill the gap in distribution across the North Pacific region. We also document specimens for 4 Alaska species previously cited in the literature without vouchers. A total of 83 species are discussed and photos are provided for 17 of the rarely encountered and poorly documented species.
41300900|Even though Kittlitz's Murrelets (Brachyramphus brevirostris) remain almost entirely within the species' breeding range throughout the year, 20 records were obtained south of the breeding range along the west coast of North America between 1969 and 2010. Eight records between southern British Columbia and southern California (1969-2010), within the California Current region (33  - 49  N), were considered to be vagrants, occurring far from the nearest breeding areas (1060 to 2920 km). Twelve records in southern Southeast Alaska and northern British Columbia (1994-2001) were relatively close to southernmost breeding areas (<730 km), still within the southern Alaska Current region (51  -56  N), and were considered to reflect occasional use of the southern part of the non-breeding range. With no records south of breeding areas prior to 1969, vagrancy and movements just south of the breeding range may have increased in recent decades because more qualified observers have covered the coastal areas, as well as due to changes in weather, reproduction, and movements. Increased search effort and better documentation of records will facilitate future confirmation and identification of changes in the type or frequency of these occurrences.
10.2307/3536615|During surveys of upland forests in the Tsuga heterophylla Zone in Washington and Oregon, 1986 to 1996, we caught 192 S. gracilis. In the Oregon Coast Range, more (85%) S. gracilis were caught in old-growth than in stem-exclusion stages (P = 0.02). Abundances on the Olympic Peninsula were similar to Coast Range old growth (P = 0.60) with no differences between seral stages (P = 0.74). No S. gracilis were caught in upland forests > 500 m in Washington or at low elevations in the Puget Trough. Spilogale gracilis was widely distributed in upland forests, but may be tied to riparian areas at elevational extremes. Old growth provides good habitat in some dry areas (Coast Range), perhaps through better developed forest floors (coarse woody debris, litter, humus) than are found in young stands. Absence from the Puget Trough study areas may reflect dryness, disturbance history, and forest fragmentation by agriculture and urban development. Future research on S. gracilis may lead to a better understanding of forest-floor processes and differences in ecosytem processes that occur elevationally within relatively small geographic areas.
3536873|We investigated whether trumpeter swans (Cygnus buccinator) gain energy from forage in excess of estimated daily demands while present in a spring migration stopover area west of Calgary, Alberta. We estimated energy budgets from activity time budgets of 443 individual focal-animal observations. We conducted exclosure experiments in ponds used by trumpeter swans to estimate consumption of Potamogeton pectinatus tubers and rhizomes, and we determined metabolizable energy of forage to assess energy intake. Our conservative estimate of forage removal indicated that energy demands were similar to gains within migration stopover areas. Therefore, trumpeter swans likely have a positive energy balance that is available for further migration and reproduction. We suggest that spring migration stopover areas could play a critical role in the further conservation of this species.
40856457|Understanding population dynamics and historical declines for Mountain Goats (Oreamnos americanus) is challenging due to sparse data. Speculations regarding the cause of population declines have included habitat change, predation, disease, parasites, recreation impacts, and excessive harvest. Managing for recovery requires an understanding of the relative importance of the factors causing population declines. Using records of Mountain Goat harvest in selected areas of Washington State (USA), we modeled population trajectories for 7 areas with a stage-structured matrix model and compared these trajectories to recent population estimates. Our results supported the hypothesis that observed declines can be attributed primarily to the effects of harvest. We also assessed the level of harvest likely to be sustainable for Mountain Goat populations of varying sizes. Our results were sensitive to vital rates used in the model and were also influenced by population size and the proportion of harvest that is male. Generally, populations of <50 individuals should not be harvested, but larger populations (such as >100) or those where the proportion of males in the harvest is high (90 to 100%) may sustain 4% harvest. However, due to expected variation of vital rates among populations and years, declines may still occur with harvest at these levels and continued population monitoring is essential for hunted populations.
10.2307/3536493|Between 1982-1987, over half of the dusky Canada goose (Branta canadensis occidentalis) nests on the Copper River Delta, Alaska, which were destroyed by predators, were destroyed by brown bears (Ursus arctos). Radiotelemetry showed that from 1984-1987, immature bears and females with young were active on the nesting grounds during the period when geese were nesting. Adult male and lone female bears spent little time in the area. Bears moved into the area about the same time geese began initiating nests and remained until mid- to late summer when they moved inland to salmon spawning streams.
3536473|Movement and cropping rate influences forage selectivity of deer. Previously, I found that male and female black-tailed deer (Odocoileus hemionus columbianus) had similar cropping rates on acorns. Herein, I tested whether movement rates differed between the sexes when deer fed on acorns. I detected a relationship between movement rate and acorn abundance but no intersexual differences in movement. Male and female deer foraged on acorns in a similar manner because they had similar movement and cropping rates.
10.2307/3536912|Black bear (Ursus americanus) damage to 108 lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta) trees was found in a mixed conifer habitat in central Oregon. No trees of three other conifer species were injured. Eighty-nine percent of the damage occurred in the same year. Nearly 20% of the freshly damaged trees had bark removed from more than 75% of the circumference and, judging from the fate of trees damaged in prior years, probably succumbed.
20628109|Two brief midwater trawl surveys were conducted at depths of 250-1000 m in the Gulf of Alaska in April 2007 and March 2008, during which several species were recorded for the 1st time from this region. In this report we note the 1st records of Maulisia argipalla, Pachystomias microdon, Lestidiops ringens, and Scopelengys tristis from the Gulf of Alaska, the 1st records of Argyropelecus lychnus and Aristostomias scintillans from the subarctic North Pacific, and the 1st record of the rare alepocephalid Asquamiceps caeruleus from the Pacific Ocean. Meristics, morphometrics, and morphological details are provided in the context of previously reported data for each species. In addition, we provide data for 2 specimens of Caristius macropus encountered for the 1st time in the open waters of the Gulf of Alaska.
