10.2307/3391650|Typifications are made for six taxa in the Brassicaceae described by Robert Brown from plants collected in arctic North America. The taxa were published in his 1823 preprint Chloris Melvilliana, which in 1824 appeared as the botanical appendix to William E. Parry's Supplement to the Appendix of Parry's First Voyage. Lectotypes are selected for Eutrema edwardsii R. Brown, Parrya arctica R. Brown, Parrya macrocarpa R. Brown, Platypetalum R. Brown, and Platypetalum purpurascens R. Brown, and a neotype is selected for Platypetalum dubium R. Brown.
40856282|TWO narrowly endemic species of Gentianaceae from northwestern Yunnan Province in China, Gentiana spathulisepala T. N. Ho & S. W. Liu and Swertia lihengiana T. N. Ho & S. W. Liu, are described, illustrated, and compared with their closest relatives. Keys are also provided for the allied species of G. spathulisepala and S. lihengiana, respectively.
10.2307/3391821|Three new combinations, Tournefortia sibirica L. var. angustior (A. DC.) G. L. Chu & M. G. Gilbert, Lappula ferganensis (Popov) Kamelin & G. L. Chu, and L. lasiocarpa (W. T. Wang) Kamelin & G. L. Chu, plus a new name, Trigonotis harrysmithii R. R. Mill, are validated.
10.2307/3391546|Morphological characters support the description of two new species of Paspalum: P. atabapense, from Depto. Atabapo, Venezuela, in group Alterniflora; and P. tillettii, from Comisara del Guaina, Colombia, and Territorio Federal Amazonas, Venezuela, in an unspecified taxonomic group but clearly related to P. schultesii Swallen.
10.2307/3393564| Myoxanthus ruschii (Orchidaceae), a new species from the Santa Lcia Biological Station in the Atlantic forest of Esprito Santo, Brazil, is described and illustrated. This new species is related to Myoxanthus punctatus, Myoxanthus lonchophyllus, and Myoxanthus seidelii, from which it differs by non-clavate petals and the general form of the lip with a subtruncate base with a pair of reflexed lateral lobes on the end. 
10.2307/3392137|Carex tiogana is described as a new species in section Capillares from the Sierra Nevada, California, similar to C. capillaris but with culms usually shorter than or equal to the leaves, serrulate leaf midribs, conspicuous riblike veins on abaxial leaf surfaces, no enlarged vein at leaf margin, long prickles on leaf margins and pistillate scale midribs, perigynia fewer per spike and usually shorter, with longer prickles toward beak, usually shorter beaks, and shorter achenes.
10.2307/3391575|A new species of Malvaceae, Pavonia serrana G. L. Esteves, is described and illustrated. This species is known only from the Serra da Canastra, Municipality of Botumirim, State of Minas Gerais, Brazil. It is closely related to P. grazielae Krapovickas, also from that state. The affinities of the two taxa are discussed.
10.2307/3392993|Two new species from central Brazil of the South American genus Oryctina (Loranthaceae) are described and illustrated, O. eubrachioides Kuijt and O. quadrangularis Kuijt. The absence of a calyculus in the male flower of several Oryctina species represents a nearly unique feature within the family, and the lack of staminodia in the female flower has elsewhere been noted only in two species of Cladocolea. The affinities of Brazilian species with Venezuelan ones are briefly discussed. Distinctions between the two groups of species, based largely on the structure of bracteoles and staminodia, suggest that the generic name Maracanthus may have to be revived for the Venezuelan species. A new key to the genus is presented, including the new species.
10.2307/3393217|Two new species of Philodendron, P. simonianum and P. vargealtense, are recognized from southeastern Brazil, both belonging to Philodendron sect. Calostigma.
40300913|Critical review of the morphology of Phoebe pallescens Mez shows that the species must be placed in Persea Miller subgen. Persea (Lauraceae, Perseeae) because of the pinninerved leaves, absence of domatia, stipitate staminal glands, well-developed staminodia, the pubescent gynoecium, flat hypanthium not developed into a cupule, and perianth lobes entirely deciduous in fruit. The new combination Persea pallescens (Mez) Lorea-Hernndez, which is distinguished by its straight, appressed pubescence on leaves, is not a rare, local endemic as previously considered, but occurs along the eastern Sierra Madre in Mexico and in central Guatemala. The name Persea pallescens is lectotypified, and a key to separate the Mesoamerican species of Persea with a pubescent pistil is provided. /// Con base en una revisin crtica de la morfologa de Phoebe pallescens Mez se concluye que la especie debe ser considerada en Persea Miller subgen. Persea (Lauraceae, Perseeae), debido a sus hojas penninervadas, la ausencia de domacios, glndulas estaminales estipitadas, estaminodios bien desarrollados, el gineceo pubescente, hipanto piano que no se desarrolla como una cpula y lbulos del perianto deciduos en el fruto. La nueva combinacin Persea pallescens (Mez) Lorea-Hernndez, que se distingue por su pubescencia recta y adpresa sobre las hojas, no es un endemita local y raro, como anteriormente se le consideraba, sino que se distribuye a lo largo de la Sierra Madre Oriental en Mxico y en el centro de Guatemala. Adems se designa el lectotipo del nombre Persea pallescens y se presenta una clave para separar las especies de Persea con pistilo pubescente en Mesoamrica.
10.2307/3392189|A new genus of the Senecioneae, Asteraceae, from Costa Rica, Charadranaetes, is described based on Senecio durandii Klatt, characterized by an obnoxious odor emitted by crushed parts, elongate linear corolla lobes that are not recurved, and a prominently rounded style apex that bears little or no apical coma. A key to the genera of Senecioneae in Costa Rica is furnished.
10.2307/3393017|Rinorea belalongii, from dipterocarp forests in Brunei and probably also Sabah, is described and illustrated. It is distinct in its very long and sharply acuminate leaf blades, cauliflorous and ramiflorous inflorescences, stamens lacking ventral appendages, and gynoecium with densely short-puberulent ovaries and glabrous, expanded styles that are constricted just above the hairy bases.
10.2307/3391700|Two new genera from Costa Rica and Panama, Jessea and Talamancalia, are described. Both genera have elongate corolla lobes, styles with paired stigmatic lines and narrowly rounded penicillate-haired tips, small papillose cells on the achene surface, and neither has tails on the anthers. Jessea has a spiciferous receptacle and carpopodia with many rows of cells. Jessea includes Senecio cooperi, S. megaphyllus, and S. multivenius, with the last as type; the appropriate new combinations are made herein. Talamancalia has mucilage hairs on the achene and carpopodia nearly obsolete. The genus includes Talamancalia boquetensis (Standley) H. Robinson & J. Cuatrecasas and the new species, T. westonii, with the latter as type.
10.2307/3391573|Hemerocallis hongdoensis, a new species of section Fulvae, is described. Hemerocallis hongdoensis occurs in rocky and humus soil on talus slopes or rocky cliffs on remote islands off the southwestern coast of Korea. Hemerocallis hongdoensis is most closely related to H. aurantiaca but differs from this species by its underground parts lacking a rhizome, deciduous leaves, ovate-lanceolate bracts below inflorescences which are 1.2-3.5 cm long, dichotomous or trichotomous inflorescences which are 3-9 cm long, stout perianth tube (2.4-3.2 cm x 5.5-6.0 mm), orange-yellow perianth lacking a red tinge, and a different flowering period.
10.2307/3392163|Eight superordinal and twelve ordinal names not validly published by A. L. Takhtajan in 1997 are formally validated. One name proposed by Cronquist in 1980 is validated. In addition, three names not properly validated by J. L. Reveal are included. A new family name, Exbucklandiaceae, is proposed for the illegitimate family name Bucklandiaceae. Engelhardtiaceae is validated to accommodate Engelhardtia, Alfaroa, Alfaropsis, and Oreomunnea, all distinct from the Juglandaceae s. str.
10.2307/3392985|Scleria robusta Camelbeke & Goetghebeur is proposed as a new name for the later homonym Scleria grandis Core.
20406234|An undescribed species of Lophiaris Rafinesque (Orchidaceae, Cymbidieae, Oncidiinae) was detected while conducting a phylogenetic study of Trichocentrum Poeppig & Endlicher s.l. Lophiaris sierracaracolensis Cetzal & Balam is described from Sierra Caracol in the Central Depression of Chiapas, on the Pacific slopes of Mexico. The new species is illustrated, and its affinities are discussed. The novelty is related to L. straminea (Bateman ex Lindley) Braem, but the labellum isthmus is broader (to 3 mm wide), the claw of the dorsal sepal is very short (1.5 mm long) and wide, and the callus is 8-partite (vs. 5-partite in L. straminea).
20406164|Three new Salvia L. (Lamiaceae) species, S. colonica Standley & Williams ex Klitgaard, S. univerticillata Ramamoorthy ex Klitgaard, and S. whitefoordiae Klitgaard, were revealed during the study of Salvia for the Flora Mesoamericana in which 69 Salvia species in total are recognized for the Flora region. The three species belong to Salvia subg. Calosphace (Bentham) Epling, and they are endemic to Mesoamerica. In this paper the species are described and illustrated, and their morphological affinities and putative relatives are discussed. /// Durante el estudio de Salvia para la Flora Mesoamericana se descubrieron tres nuevas especies de Salvia L. (Lamiaceae), S. colonica Standley & Williams ex Klitgaard, S. univerticillata Ramamoorthy ex Klitgaard y S. whitefoordiae Klitgaard; en total se reconocen 69 especies de Salvia para la regin de la Flora. Las tres especies pertenecen a Salvia subgnero Calosphace (Bentham) Epling y son endmicas de Mesoamrica. En este artculo se describen las tres especies como nuevas para la ciencia, se ilustran todas las especies y se discute sus afinidades morfolgicas y sus parientes putativos.
23259421|Gentianella weigendii J. S. Pringle is described as a new species from Peru. It is distinctive among the South American species of Gentianella Moench (Gentianaceae) in its combination of green corollas scarcely longer than the calyces, stamens inserted at different levels on the corolla tube, and raised nectaries. Se describe Gentianella weigendii J. S. Pringle, una nueva especie del Per. Es distintiva entre las especies de Gentianella Moench (Gentianaceae) de Amrica del Sur por la combinacin de las corolas verdes poco ms largas que los clices, los estambres insertos a nivales diversos en el tubo de la corola, y los nectarios sobresalientes.
10.2307/3392049|Five new subsections and five new combinations of subsectional rank are validated within Chenopodium subg. Blitum (L.) Hiitonen and Chenopodium L. subg. Chenopodium. In subgenus Blitum these are: Chenopodium subsect. Foliosa Kowal ex Mosyakin & Clemants; and Chenopodium subsect. Capitata Kowal ex Mosyakin & Clemants. In subgenus Chenopodium the new subsections are: Chenopodium subsect. Polysperma Kowal ex Mosyakin & Clemants; Chenopodium subsect. Undata Aellen & Iljin ex Mosyakin & Clemants; and Chenopodium subsect. Standleyana Mosyakin & Clemants. The new combinations in subgenus Chenopodium are: Chenopodium subsect. Urbica (Standley) Mosyakin & Clemants; Chenopodium subsect. Leptophylla (Standley) Clemants & Mosyakin; Chenopodium subsect. Fremontiana (Standley) Clemants & Mosyakin; Chenopodium subsect. Favosa (Aellen) Mosyakin & Clemants; and Chenopodium subsect. Cicatricosa (Aellen) Mosyakin & Clemants. Delimitation of some other infrageneric taxa is discussed.
10.2307/3392132|A new species of Convolvulaceae, Jacquemontia revoluta Simo-Bianchini, is described and illustrated. This species is known only from the rocky slopes of Serra do Cip (Minas Gerais, Brazil), where it is associated with ant nests. The taxon is distinct in the genus by the linear leaves with revolute margins and 5-stellate (almost scale-like) trichomes. In addition to the description and illustration, comments on its probable relationships, habitat, and distribution are presented. Jacquemontia revoluta is probably related to J. linoides (Choisy) Meissner; both species are rare.
23259339|Pachycarpus acidostelma M. Glen & Nicholas (Apocynaceae, Asclepiadoideae) is a new species described from the KwaZulu-Natal Province of South Africa. The new taxon is differentiated from other closely related Pachycarpus E. Mey. species (P. scaber (Harv.) N. E. Br. and P. asperifolius Meisn.) by its small stature, the catilliform or saucer-shaped corolla, and a deltoid corona lobe that is sharp at the distal end, hence the specific epithet. It also differs from P. asperifolius in the inflorescence being terminal and subcorymbose.
10.2307/3391506|Carex david-smithii is described as new from Bolivia. It is most closely related to the Argentinean and Chilean C. catamarcensis, but differs in its dark, almost black, pistillate scales and strongly outcurved perigynia tapered to the beak. Carex catamarcensis has stramineous to reddish purple scales and straight perigynia abruptly contracted into the beak.
40300947|Two new species of Orchidaceae from the Serra do Caraa, state of Minas Gerais, Brazil, are described and illustrated. Bulbophyllum carassense R. C. Mota, F. Barros & Stehmann is endemic to the Serra do Caraa and is epiphytic on trees or sometimes rupicolous. It is related to B. bidentatum (Barbosa Rodrigues) Cogniaux, B. filifolium Borba & Smidt, and B. plumosum (Barbosa Rodrigues) Cogniaux, all belonging to section Xiphizusa (Reichenbach f.) Cogniaux. A table comparing diagnostic characters for B. carassense with morphologically related species is presented. The second new species is Lepanthopsis vellozicola R. C. Mota, F. Barros & Stehmann, which is also rare and endemic to this region as an epiphyte on Vellozia compacta Martius, in campos rupestres vegetation. This is the only species in Lepanthopsis (Cogniaux) Ames with the following combination of characters: the secondary stems show only two evident internodes and are subtended by two leaf sheaths with smooth margins, and the lateral sepals are completely connate. A taxonomic key to identify the Brazilian species of Lepanthopsis is presented. /// Duas novas espcies de Orchidaceae, ambas procedentes da Serra do Caraa, Minas Gerais, Brasil, so descritas e ilustradas. Bulbophyllum carassense R. C. Mota, F. Barros & Stehmann  rara e endmica da Serra do Caraa e do seu entorno, epfita e ocasionalmente rupcola. Tern afinidade com B. bidentatum (Barbosa Rodrigues) Cogniaux, B. filifolium Borba & Smidt e B. plumosum (Barbosa Rodrigues) Cogniaux, todas da seo Xiphizusa (Reichenbach f.) Cogniaux.  apresentada uma tabela comparativa dos caracteres morfolgicos de B. carassense e suas espcies relacionadas. A segunda espcie  Lepanthopsis vellozicola R. C. Mota, F. Barros & Stehmann, tambm rara e endmica da Serra do Caraa, crescendo exclusivamente como epfita sobre Vellozia compacta Martius, na vegetao de campo rupestre.  a nica espcie do gnero a apresentar as seguintes caractersticas: caule secundrio com dois entrens evidentes, associados a duas bainhas foliares com margens lisas, e spalas laterais totalmente conadas.  apresentada uma chave taxonmica artificial para identificao das espcies de Lepanthopsis (Cogniaux) Ames ocorrentes no Brasil.
10.2307/3391463|A new species of Streptostachys, S. rigidifolia, from the Brazilian state of Maranho is described, illustrated, and compared with previously described species in the genus. Anatomical data on the leaf blade of the new species are also provided.
10.2307/3393530|The dwarf mistletoe parasitizing shore pine in British Columbia, Canada, and Washington, U.S.A., is described as a subspecies of hemlock dwarf mistletoe, Arceuthobium tsugense, based on morphology and differences in host susceptibility of western hemlock and shore pine to the shore pine dwarf mistletoe, Arceuthobium tsugense subsp. contortae.
10.2307/3392210|The following new species are described and illustrated: Dendrophthora haberi Kuijt, Dendrophthora lacryma-jobi Kellogg, Dendrophthora oligantha Kuijt, Dendrophthora scopulata Kuijt, Phoradendron diminutivum Kellogg, Phoradendron kelloggii Kuijt, Phoradendron kingii Kuijt, Phoradendron roldanii Kuijt, Phoradendron triflorum Kellogg, Phoradendron websteri Kuijt, and Psittacanthus breedlovei Kuijt. Recombined names include Dendrophthora densifrons (Ule) Kuijt, Dendrophthora fanshawei (Maguire) Kuijt, and Dendrophthora intermedia (Rizzini) Kuijt. The Dendrophthora obliqua-fendleriana complex is discussed, as are the recently recombined names Dendrophthora fendleriana (Eichler) Kuijt, Phthirusa podoptera (Chamisso & Schlechtendal) Kuijt, and Phthirusa stelis (L.) Kuijt, including an extended synonymy of the latter.
10.2307/3392231|Two new species of Weinmannia (Cunoniaceae) from the highlands of southern Venezuela are described and illustrated. Weinmannia ilutepuiensis P. E. Berry & J. Bradford is a simple-leaved, serrate-margined species known only from Il-tepui in Estado Bolvar, and Weinmannia corocoroensis J. Bradford & P. E. Berry is a pinnate-leaved species with tiny, revolute-margined leaflets currently known only from Cerro Coro Coro in Estado Amazonas.
20406349|New results from phylogenetic analyses utilizing chloroplast and nuclear DNA markers agree with morphology in support of the unification of all of Rheedia L. and part of Ochrocarpos Thouars with Garcinia L. and show that species occurring in Madagascar and the Comoros fall into four separate lineages, which are designated here as informal species groups. An examination of Garcinia from these areas results in the recognition of 32 currently described species, all but one of which are endemic. The widespread African species, G. livingstonei T. Anderson, is noted for the first time to occur in Mayotte. Eleven new combinations are published here: G. ambrensis (H. Perrier) P. Sweeney & Z. S. Rogers, G. anjouanensis (H. Perrier) P. Sweeney & Z. S. Rogers, G. arenicola (Jumelle & H. Perrier) P. Sweeney & Z. S. Rogers, G. calcicola (Jumelle & H. Perrier) P. Sweeney & Z. S. Rogers, G. dalleizettei (H. Perrier) P. Sweeney & Z. S. Rogers, G. mangorensis (R. Viguier & Humbert) P. Sweeney & Z. S. Rogers, G. multifida (H. Perrier) P. Sweeney & Z. S. Rogers, G. parvula (H. Perrier) P. Sweeney & Z. S. Rogers, G. thouvenotii (H. Perrier) P. Sweeney & Z. S. Rogers, G. tsaratananensis (H. Perrier) P. Sweeney & Z. S. Rogers), and G. urschii (H. Perrier) P. Sweeney & Z. S. Rogers. Three new names, G. dauphinensis P. Sweeney & Z. S. Rogers, G. megistophylla P. Sweeney & Z. S. Rogers, and G. tsimatimia P. Sweeney & Z. S. Rogers, are provided for O. parvifolius Scott-Elliot, R. megaphylla H. Perrier, and R. pedicellata (Jumelle & H. Perrier) H. Perrier, respectively. Lectotypes are designated for 12 names: G. crassiflora Jumelle & H. Perrier, G. disepala Vesque, G. melleri Baker, G. polyphlebia Baker, G. verrucosa Jumelle & H. Perrier, O. ambrensis H. Perrier, O. macrophyllus O. Hoffmann, O. parvifolius, O. parvulus H. Perrier, O. tsaratananae H. Perrier, R. arenicola Jumelle & H. Perrier, and R. calcicola Jumelle & H. Perrier.
10.2307/3392150|Five new taxa from Central America, Anisacanthus nicaraguensis (compound dichasial cymes, 4-merous red corollas, 3-colporate pollen), Aphelandra scabra var. angustifolia (narrowly elliptic leaves), Justicia cauliflora (some inflorescences on old wood, lanceolate bracts, greenish white corolla), J. chiriquiensis (cymose panicles, oblanceolate bracts, 4-porate pollen), and J. nicaraguensis (clusters of 2-3 flowers to short spikes, corollas orange, dicolporate pollen), are described. The new combination Justicia rothschuhii (Lindau) Durkee, based on Chaetothylax rothschuhii Lindau, is made, and the new name Justicia danielii Durkee, which replaces Chaetothylax cuspidatus D. N. Gibson, is provided.
10.2307/3392097|Delphinium palasianum, Jasminum leptophyllum, and Pseudomertensia flavescens are described from Palas Valley, District Kohistan, North West Frontier Province (NWFP), Pakistan. Their taxonomic relationships are discussed.
10.2307/3392109|Se propone a Beilschmiedia manantlanensis, una nueva especie de Lauraceae conocida nicamente de la vertiente sur de la Reserva de la Biosfera Sierra de Manantln, la cual crece en las caadas que bajan hacia Cuzalapa y Casimiro Castillo. La especie se describe e ilustra, y se compara morfolgicamente con otras especies. /// Beilschmiedia manantlanensis is a new species from the rugged western portion of the Sierra de Manantln Biosphere Reserve in Jalisco, Mexico, an area known to be rich in endemic and disjunct species. The new species is described and illustrated, and its distinguishing characters from similar species are summarized.
10.2307/3392956|While completing the account of Myricaceae for Flora Mesoamericana it was discovered that a new combination was necessary in the genus Morella: M. lindeniana. It is here provided along with a short synopsis of the distribution of the species and its differences from the widespread Morella cerifera.
10.2307/3391645|Una especie de Sudamrica austral tratada previamente como Siphonoglossa sulcata ha sido transferida a Carlowrightia en la recin publicada Flora de la Provincia de Jujuy (Parte 9). Ya que los caracteres que justifican su posicin sistemtica dentro de Carlowrightia no se discuten en la Flora, se presentan aqu. Carlowrightia es un gnero que comprende 23 especies de Amrica del Norte y Amrica Central; sta es la primera especie que se cita para Amrica del Sur. Siphonoglossa gentianifolia Lindau, descripta para Paraguay, se reduce a la sinonimia de Carlowrightia sulcata por primera vez. /// A species of Acanthaceae from Argentina generally treated as Siphonoglossa sulcata has been transferred to Carlowrightia in the recently published Flora de la Provincia de Jujuy (Part 9). Because the characters that justify its systematic position in Carlowrightia are not discussed in the Flora, they are presented here. Carlowrightia is currently considered a genus comprising 23 species from North and Central America; this is the first species reported from South America. Siphonoglossa gentianifolia Lindau, described from Paraguay, is reduced to synonymy of Carlowrightia sulcata for the first time.
10.2307/3392266|A new species of Trianaea from eastern Ecuador, T. naeka, is described and illustrated. Several new combinations in the genera Trianaea, Schultesianthus, and Juanulloa are made in preparation of a larger work on the phylogeny of the tribe Juanulloeae.
10.2307/3391442| Galipea dasysperma Gmez-Laurito & Q. Jimnez, from the tropical rainforests of Costa Rica and Nicaragua, is described, illustrated, and compared with its closest relatives. 
10.2307/3392176|The new combination Neotorularia gamosepala is proposed. Arabidopsis tuemurnica is reduced to synonymy of N. humilis. The limits of Arabidopsis and Neotorularia are discussed.
10.2307/3393193|During preparation of the account of Zingiberaceae for the Flora of China, volume 24, it was noticed that four species are illegitimately named, being later homonyms: Amomum thyrsoideum Gagnepain (1903), not Ruiz and Pavn (1798), A. aurantiacum H. T. Tsai & S. W. Zhao (1979), not Ridley (1920), Hedychium carneum Y. Y. Qian (1994), not Loddiges (1823), and Zingiber truncatum S. Q. Tong (1987), not Stokes (1812). Therefore, the following new names (nomina nova) are proposed here, respectively: A. gagnepainii T. L. Wu, K. Larsen & Turland, A. neoaurantiacum T. L. Wu, K. Larsen & Turland, H. neocarneum T. L. Wu, K. Larsen & Turland, and Z. neotruncatum T. L. Wu, K. Larsen & Turland.
40300922|We describe and illustrate the new species Actinocephalus koernickeanus Trov & F. Costa (Eriocaulaceae, Paepalanthoideae) from the Espinhao Range in Minas Gerais, Brazil, and compare it with the morphologically similar species, Paepalanthus actinocephaloides Silveira and P. barbi ger Silveira, both from Espinhaco Range. /// Descrevemos e ilustramos a nova espcie Actinocephalus koernickeanus Trov & F. N. Costa (Eriocaulaceae, Paepalanthoideae) ocorrente na Cadeia do Espinhao, em Minas Gerais, Brasil, e a comparamos com as espcies de morfologia mais similar: Paepalanthus actinocephaloides Silveira e P. barbiger Silveira, ambas ocorrentes na Cadeia do Espinhao.
10.2307/3393032|Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie de Solanaceae de la Provincia de Loja, Ecuador, Sessea jorgensenii Bentez. Esta nueva especie se distingue de otras especies de Sessea de la provincia de Loja por presentar sus hojas densamente dendrtico-pubescentes en el envs y tambin con algunos pelos dispersos de color negro, simples o bifurcados y con la base tmida, este ltimo tipo de pelo tambin presente en tallos, pecolos, ejes florales, cliz, corola y en las valvas de los frutos; siendo sus flores ligeramente curvadas, el cliz de 11.5-13 mm de largo, cubriendo a la corola en su mitad inferior y la cpsula cubierta en sus tres cuartas partes por el cliz persistente. /// A new species of Solanaceae from the Province of Loja, Ecuador, Sessea jorgensenii Bentez, is described and illustrated. The new species is distinguished from other species of Sessea from the Province of Loja by the leaves densely dendritic-pubescent below as well as bearing scattered black, simple or bifurcated hairs with swollen bases; this latter type of hair is also found on stems, petioles, floral axes, calyx, corolla, and valves of the fruit. It also differs in having slightly curved flowers with the calyx 11.5-13 mm long and covering the basal half of the corolla and three-fourths of the capsular fruit.
40300899|Two new species of Alstroemeria L. (Alstroemeriaceae) from Brazil are described: A. albescens M. C. Assis from Rio Grande do Sul and calliantha M. C. Assis from Minas Gerais. Descriptions, comments, and illustrations are provided. /// Duas novas espcies de Alstroemeria L. (Alstroemeriaceae) do Brasil so aqui descritas: A. albescens M. C. Assis do Rio Grande do Sul e A. calliantha M. C. Assis de Minas Gerais. Descries, comentrios e ilustraes so aqui apresentadas.
10.2307/3393055|Se describen e ilustran dos especies nuevas del gnero Ocotea del sur de Mxico: O. candidovillosa y O. sauroderma. La primera, un nuevo miembro del grupo de Ocotea helicterifolia (Meissner) Hemsley, se distingue por la presencia de tricomas rectos y erectos a lo largo de las venas en el envs de las hojas, inflorescencias tirsiformes tomentosas, flores tomentosas y pedculos de las glndulas de los estambres del verticilo III unidos a los filamentos de los estaminodios. La segunda, una especie sin claras relaciones con algn grupo particular dentro de Ocotea, se diferencia por tener hojas rugosas densamente rufo-tomentosas en el envs, un par de venas foliares marginales, inflorescencias rufo-tomentosas, flores tomentosas y estaminodios con un par de glndulas en el pedculo. /// Ocotea candidovillosa and O. sauroderma, two new Lauraceae from southern Mexico, are described and illustrated. The former, a new member of the O. helicterifolia (Meissner) Hemsley group, is distinguished by the presence of straight and erect trichomes only along veins on the undersurface of leaves, tomentose thyrsiform inflorescences, tomentose flowers, and stalk of glands from stamens of whorl III fused to filaments of staminodes. The latter, a species without a clear relationship to any group within Ocotea, is recognized by its rugous leaves, densely rufo-tomentose below, a pair of marginal foliar veins, rufo-tomentose inflorescences, tomentose flowers, and staminodes with a pair of glands on their filaments.
10.2307/3393221|The new species Guettarda davidseorum Lorence and G. subcapitata C. M. Taylor, here described and illustrated, are known from a moist forest region in Belize and dry forest regions from southern Mexico to Nicaragua, respectively. Guettarda davidseorum is similar in aspect to G. deamii Standley, and G. subcapitata has been previously confused with G. macrosperma Donnell Smith. Also considered here are distinctive patterns of variation in the wide-ranging variable species G. crispiflora Vahl, which support the recognition of five subspecies with generally allopatric geographic distributions; several of these subspecies differ from those that have been previously circumscribed. /// Las especies nuevas Guettarda davidseorum Lorence y G. subcapitata C. M. Taylor, aqu descritas e ilustradas, han sido registradas de bosques hmedos en Belice y de bosques secos del sur de Mexico a Nicaragua, respectivamente. Guettarda davidseorum es similar en su aspecto a G. deamii Standley, y G. subcapitata se ha confundido con G. macrosperma Donnell Smith. Adems se consideran aqu los patrones de variacin en la pubescencia de la especie G. crispiflora Vahl, que es variable y de amplia distribucin; estos patrones distintivos justifican la delimitacin de cinco subespecies con distribuciones geogrficas generalmente aloptricas, y varias de estas subespecies difieren de las que se han delimitado previamente.
10.2307/3391840|Correct names are provided for Volume 11 of the Flora of North America for taxa segregated from Scirpus sensu lato. Schoenoplectus validus is placed in synonymy under Sch. tabernaemontani. New combinations made herein are: Sch. acutus var. occidentalis; Sch. x steinmetzii (pro sp.; = Sch. heterochaetus x tabernaemontani); Sch. pungens var. longispicatus; Sch. pungens var. badius (Scirpus americanus subsp. monophyllus var. monophyllus, misapplied); Sch. x contortus (= Sch. americanus x pungens); Sch. hallii; Bolboschoenus glaucus (Lamarck) (Scirpus tuberosus, misapplied); Isolepis molesta; Trichophorum clementis; and T. clintonii.
40300909|Hetaeria shiuyingiana L. Li & F. W. Xing, a new species of Orchidaceae (Orchidoideae, Cranichideae, Goodyerinae) from Hainan, China, is described and illustrated. It has previously been misidentified as the related H. nitida Ridley, but differs in its larger flowers, broader, obovate petals, lip hypochile with finger-like tripartite papillae, and column with two fleshy sigmoid wings. A key is provided to distinguish the seven species of Hetaeria Blume known from China.
10.2307/3391470|A new Mouriri in the section Nesophytum has been found at 1,300 m in the Cordillera Central, Dominican Republic. Collected only in fruit, the new species can be distinguished primarily by its mostly terminal infructescence, large fruits and seeds, thick calyx lobes, and hypanthium shape, greatly modified in fruit.
10.2307/3393137|We describe and illustrate the monotypic new genus and species Caobangia squamata (Polypodiaceae), endemic to limestone ridges in northern Vietnam. Caobangia is superficially similar to the predominantly Neotropical genera Microgramma and Pleopeltis, but its affinities appear to be with Lepidogrammitis, comprising about eight species in China and southeastern Asia. Caobangia is characterized by long-creeping filiform rhizomes, clathrate rhizome scales, simple, monomorphic to subdimorphic, densely acicular-scaly blades, and a single row of sori on each side of the midrib.
10.2307/3393061|A review of the taxonomy of Hymenocallis in Texas since the publication of names by Lloyd H. Shinners is presented. The new varietal combination H. occidentalis (J. Le Conte) Kunth var. eulae (Shinners) G. Lom. Smith & Flory is made, recognizing leaf and cytological differences. A short key is provided to distinguish between the varieties.
10.2307/3391753|Cypripedium taibaiense G. Zhu & S. C. Chen, a new species from Taibai Mountain in Shaanxi, northwestern China, is described and illustrated. The species belongs to section Cypripedium subsection Macrantha (Krnzlin) Cribb. It resembles C. yunnanense Franchet in having small flowers but differs from it in having ovaries pubescent at least along the ribs, oblong staminodes almost twice as long as wide, untwisted petals, and in having dorsal sepals elliptic-lanceolate more than twice as long as wide.
10.2307/3391913|During a review of Phaseolus undertaken by the senior author to clarify the variability of the P. coccineus L. species complex, a few herbarium specimens of what appeared to be a new species from Costa Rica and Panama were encountered. Subsequent field collecting by the junior author confirmed this opinion, and the new taxon is hereby named and described. Its probable relationships and the part it may have played in the early evolution of the economically important pulses such as the common bean, scarlet runner bean, and "polyanthus" bean are discussed.
3393286|In Iridaceae subfamily Crocoideae, the tropical African Gladiolus erectiflorus subsp. verdickii and South African Tritonia marlothii subsp. delpierrei are restored to species rank as G. verdickii and T. delpierrei, respectively, while in the South African Ixia, I. frederickii is reduced to synonymy in I. dubia and a new species, I. superba, is described. That species, a member of Ixia sect. Ixia (20 species) is restricted to the Montagu district of the western Little Karoo, Western Cape Province, and has large pink flowers with a large dark blackish central zone. Most closely allied to a second Little Karoo species, I. gloriosa, I. superba is distinguished by the relatively long filaments 5-6 mm long, straight anthers ca. 6 mm long, and a style. The perianth tube is ca. 6 mm long, narrow at the base, forming a wide cup in the upper 3 mm. In subfamily Iridoideae, Ferraria uncinata subsp. macrochlamys is accorded separate status as F. macrochlamys, distinguished from F. uncinata by flower color, tepal proportions, and leaf marginal morphology, while a lectotype is designated for F. kamiesbergensis, the species evidently most closely allied to F. macrochlamys. In Moraea a new species, M. simplex (Moraea subg. Visciramosa, 7 species), is a local endemic of the Piketberg north of Cape Town, Western Cape, South Africa. It is distinguished from its allies by the subequal, spreading tepals with short claws, and short style that divides into three filiform, terminally stigmatic branches that extend between the filaments. We also provide new combinations at subspecies rank that were inadvertently not made when Hexaglottis and Homeria were transferred to Moraea, namely M. bulbifera subsp. anomala, M. lewisiae subsp. secunda, and M. virgata subsp. karooica. Lastly, in subfamily Nivenioideae we reinstate Aristea torulosa as the earliest name for plants currently called A. woodii, a species that extends from Tanzania and Angola to eastern South Africa.
10.2307/3391834|A new species of Podostemaceae, Oserya longifolia, from Jalisco, Mexico, is described and illustrated. Leaf length is the most prominent feature that distinguishes this species. /// Se describe e ilustra una especie nueva de la familia Podostemaceae, Oserya longifolia, del estado de Jalisco, Mxico. La longitud de la hoja es la caracterstica ms prominente que distingue a esta especie.
3393537| Seven new species of Anthurium with trilobed leaves belonging to section Semaeophyllium (Araceae) have been discovered and are here published for the first time. They include: Anthurium ancuashii from Peru, A. chimborazense from southern Ecuador, A. ternifolium and A. pinkleyi from northeastern Ecuador, A. constrictum and A. moronense from southeastern Ecuador and Peru, and A. rotundatum ranging from southern Costa Rica and Panama to northern Colombia. /// Siete nuevas especies de Anthurium con hojas trilobadas, pertenecientes a la seccin Semaeophyllium (Araceae), han sido descubiertas y aqu se publican por primera vez. Ellas incluyen: Anthurium ancuashii de Per, A. chimborazense del sur de Ecuador, A. ternifolium y A. pinkleyi del noreste de Ecuador, A. constrictum y A. moronense del sureste de Ecuador y Per, y A. rotundatum distribuda desde el sur de Costa Rica y Panam hasta el norte de Colombia. 
10.2307/3393073|Lesquerella (Brassicaceae) is united with the earlier-published Physaria following an unsuccessful attempt to conserve the more speciose Lesquerella. Molecular, morphological, distributional, and ecological data strongly support the union of the two genera. Ninety-one names in Lesquerella, including 75 at the specific rank, are transferred to Physaria. The new names P. nelsonii and P. reediana are proposed to avoid the creation of later homonyms in Physaria.
10.2307/3393526|The new species Malanea campylocarpa from the western Amazon basin, M. cylindrica from east-central Peru, and M. ecuadorensis from east-central Ecuador are described and illustrated here. These are all notable for their cylindrical fruits, and all have previously been confused with M. boliviana Standley. A key to Malanea in western South America includes eight species.
3393285|Passiflora phellos sp. nov. is described in subgenus Passiflora series Laurifoliae, more precisely, among the few species that have the first row of corona filaments shorter than the second row. This new species is known from the western Amazonian basin (Brazil, Peru, and Venezuela) and is unique in this group for its thick and fissured bark.
10.2307/3392959|Dyckia delicata, a narrow-endemic bromeliad from basaltic outcrops in the state of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil, is described and illustrated. It is similar to Dyckia hebdingii, from which it is distinguished by its leaves with soft, non-injurious spines, glabrous and few-branched or unbranched inflorescences, and triangular-shaped seeds. /// Se describe e ilustra Dyckia delicata, una Bromelicea endmica restringida a los afloramientos baslticos del estado de Rio Grande do Sul, Brasil. La especie se parece a Dyckia hebdingii, de la cual se diferencia por las hojas con espinos suaves, no punzantes, por la inflorescencia glabra y poco o no ramificada y por las semillas triangulares.
23018488|Capanemia Barb. Rodr. (Orchidaceae, Oncidiinae) currently includes 17 epiphytic, predominantly Brazilian species. As part of an ongoing revision of this genus, we herein propose new synonyms and typifications for several taxa. After a thorough revision of both herbarium material and many living specimens in cultivation collected in southern and southeastern Brazil, we herein recognize only seven species, six of which are treated here: C. brachycion (Griseb.) Schltr., C. carinata Barb. Rodr., C. gehrtii Hoehne, C. micromera Barb. Rodr., C. superflua (Rchb. f.) Garay, and C. therezae Barb. Rodr; the seventh species, C. adelaidae Porto & Brade, is recognized as valid but not treated here, since no taxonomic or nomenclatural problems were detected regarding this species. New synonymies are proposed: C. ensata Pabst is referred to C. gehrtii; C. angustilabia Schltr., C. australis (Kraenzl.) Schltr., C. lossiana L. Kollmann, C. perpusilla Schltr., C. riograndensis Pabst, and C. spathuliglossa Pabst are referred to C. micromera; and C. fluminensis Pabst is referred to C. therezae. Lectotypes are proposed for C. angustilabia, C. carinata, C. micromera, C. perpusilla, C. spathuliglossa, and C. therezae. A neotype is proposed for C. hatschbachii Schltr. Atualmente, o gnero Capanemia Barb. Rodr. (Orchidaceae, Oncidiinae) inclui 17 espcies epifticas e predominantemente brasileiras. Como parte da reviso deste gnero, propomos aqui novas sinonmias e tipificaes para muitos taxa. Aps uma cuidadosa reviso de material de herbrio e de muitos espcimes vivos cultivados, coletados na regio sul e sudeste do Brasil, reconhecemos como vlidas um total de sete espcies, seis das quais so tratadas aqui: C. brachycion (Griseb.) Schltr., C. carinata Barb. Rodr., C. gehrtii Hoehne, C. micromera Barb. Rodr., C. superflua (Rchb. f.) Garay e C. therezae Barb. Rodr.; a stima espcie, C. adelaidae Porto & Brade,  reconhecida como vlida mas no  tratada aqui, pois no foram detectados problemas taxonmicos ou nomenclaturais sobre esta espcie. Novas sinonmias so propostas: C. ensata Pabst  sinonimizada com C. gehrtii; C. angustilabia Schltr., C. australis (Kraenzl.) Schltr., C. lossiana L. Kollmann, C. perpusilla Schltr., C. riograndensis Pabst e C. spathuliglossa Pabst com C. micromera; e C. fluminensis Pabst com C. therezae. So propostos lecttipos para C. angustilabia, C. carinata, C. micromera, C. perpusilla, C. spathuliglossa e C. therezae. Prope-se um netipo para C. hatschbachii Schltr.
10.2307/3391972|Kengyilia guidenensis, a new species from western China, is described and illustrated. Cytological observations are provided, and comparisons with similar species are made.
3393442| Five new species of Cyanea (Campanulaceae: Lobelioideae) are described from the Hawaiian Islands, U.S.A. The first, C. magnicalyx Lammers (West Maui), is a member of the C. grimesiana complex, related to C. cylindrocalyx (Rock) Lammers. Cyanea duvalliorum Lammers & H. Oppenheimer and C. maritae Lammers & H. Oppenheimer (East Maui) resemble C. magnicalyx in their parted or divided adult leaves and might seem to belong likewise to the C. grimesiana complex; however, other characters suggest these two novelties are actually related to C. scabra Hillebrand and C. mceldowneyi Rock in the C. scabra complex. Cyanea minutiflora Lammers and C. pseudofauriei Lammers (Kaua'i) are newly segregated from C. fauriei H. Lveill, which is here lectotypified and treated as a synonym of C. coriacea (A. Gray) Hillebrand; the former novelty has the smallest flowers in the genus. 
10.2307/3391560|One new Catasetum natural hybrid from Guyana is described and illustrated, Catasetum x guianense, and two taxa previously described as species are shown to be hybrids, Catasetum x sodiroi Schltr. and C. x violascens Reichb. f. & Warzc. The latter two are neotypified and lectotypified, respectively. In addition, a lectotype is designated for Catasetum incurvum Klotzsch.
40960833|Se describe e ilustra Boyania colombiana Humberto Mend. (Melastomataceae) procedente de una zona de suelos arenosos en el departamento de Caquet, Colombia. Es una especie disyunta de un gnero monotpico que slo se conoca para el Escudo Guayans de Guyana. Boyania colombiana se distingue de B. ayangannae Wurdack por la forma de la base de la lmina foliar, pecolos mayores de 2 cm, entrenudos muy cortos y ausencia de apndice conectival dorsal. Se presentan datos de las diferencias de B. colombiana con otros gneros de la tribu Bertolonieae y se discute su posicin genrica. Boyania colombiana Humberto Mend. (Melastomataceae) is described and illustrated from an area of sandy soils in the department of Caquet, Colombia. It is a disjunct species in a monotypic genus known from the Guayana Shield in Guyana. Boyania colombiana is distinguished from B. ayangannae Wurdack by the shape of the leaf base, the petiole longer than 2 cm, the shortened internodes, and the absence of a dorsal connective appendix. Boyania colombiana is compared to other genera of the tribe Bertolonieae, and the generic position of the new species is discussed.
10.2307/3393562|Tovomita stergiosii, a new species of Clusiaceae from the Venezuelan and Peruvian Amazonian region, is described, illustrated, and compared to its closest relative, T. brasiliensis (Martius) Walpers from Brazil, from which it differs in leaf shape, pedicel length, floral parts, and fruit shape.
10.2307/3393047|New combinations are made for the following species and varieties within the flora of Florida: Agaloma oerstediana, Agaloma pubentissima, Aristida stricta var. beyrichiana, Asimina spatulata, Deeringothamnus rugelii var. pulchellus, Erianthus brevibarbis var. contortus, Ludwigia curtissii var. simpsonii, Nyssa biflora var. ursina, Pentalinon luteum var. sericeum, Peperomia humilis var. cumulicola, Ptelea trifoliata var. baldwinii, Stipulicida setacea var. filiformis, Zamia floridana var. umbrosa.
20406287|A new species of Parathesis (A. DC.) Hooker f., P. calimensis Ricketson & Pipoly (Myrsinaceae), from the Department of Valle del Cauca, Colombia, is described and illustrated. Parathesis calimensis has terminal or terminal and lateral inflorescences, dorsifixed anthers, and a fine, closely appressed tomentum on the branchlets and abaxial leaf surfaces, which places it in Parathesis subg. Parathesis sect. Cubanae Ricketson & Pipoly. It is most similar to P. pseudocrassiramea Ricketson & Pipoly from Costa Rica but is easily recognized by its terete branchlets, large leaves, and fruits. /// Se describe y se ilustre una nueva especie del gnero Parathesis (A. DC.) Hooker f., P. calimensis Ricketson & Pipoly, proveniente del Departamento del Valle del Cauca, Colombia. Con inflorescencias terminales y laterales, anteras dorsifijas y con vestidura de las ramitas y el envs folia tomentosa fina y adpresa pertenece al subgnero Parathesis sect. Cubanae Ricketson & Pipoly. Es muy parecida a P. pseudocrassiramea Ricketson & Pipoly de Costa Rica, pero se reconoce fcilmente por sus ramitas teretes y el tamao mayor de las hojas y frutos.
10.2307/3391379|Studies of certain species problems in Allophyllum, Gilia, and Navarretia resulted in the following nomenclatural changes: Gilia subg. Kelloggia is reduced to sectional status, two new species and one new subspecies are described (Gilia lottiae, Navarretia myersii, N. hamata subsp. parviloba), two subspecies are elevated to species (Navarretia jaredii, N. rosulata), one variety is elevated to subspecies (N. nigelliformis subsp. radians), and eight new combinations are proposed (Allophyllum gilioides subsp. violaceum, Gilia brecciarum subsp. jacens, G. sinistra subsp. pinnatisecta, Navarretia leucocephala subsp. bakeri, N. leucocephala subsp. minima, N. leucocephala subsp. pauciflora, N. leucocephala subsp. plieantha, and N. intertexta subsp. propinqua).
23018467|Se describe e ilustra Jatropha mirandana J. Jimnez Ram. & K. Vega (Euphorbiaceae), especie nueva y endmica a la Depresin del Ro Balsas. El nuevo taxn es similar a J. ciliata Sess ex Cerv., pero difiere en presentar pecolo, lmina foliar, pednculo e inflorescencia de menor tamao, adems de tener diferencias en el tipo de corteza, la forma de la hoja, y en el color y forma de la corola pistilada. Jatropha mirandana J. Jimnez Ram. & K. Vega (Euphorbiaceae), a new and endemic species from the Balsas River Depression, is described and illustrated. This species is similar to J. ciliata Sess ex Cerv., but differs from it by having the petiole, leaf blade, peduncle, and staminate cyme of smaller size; there are also differences in the type of bark, the shape of the leaf blade, and in the color and shape of the pistillate corolla.
10.2307/3391605|Lack of field observations previously hampered taxonomic discussions of Crinum nerinoides. Several investigators suggested that this plant might be Ammocharis rather than Crinum; however, definitive reclassification was impossible because pressed specimens often provide inadequate material to differentiate between the two genera. During a Namibian expedition in 1991, this taxon was observed in flower and in fruit; the morphological features were specific for Ammocharis.
20406080|Begonia hahiepiana H. Q. Nguyen & Tebbitt (Begoniaceae; section Sphenanthera (Hass-karl) Warburg), an new species from Phu Tho Province, Vietnam, is described and illustrated. This new species is most readily distinguished from the closely related B. balansana Gagnepain and B. ceratocarpa S. H. Huang & Y. M. Shui by its upper leaf surfaces, which are an iridescent dark blue (rather than glossy green) and have deeply sunken veins giving them a puckered appearance (rather than smooth), by its outer pair of tepals having a covering oif rid trichomes on their outer surfaces (rather than appearing glabrous throughout), and by its fruits, which are spherical with three thickened rib-like wings (rather than being either rhomboidal with three horned appendages or star shaped with six, or sometimes five or seven, fleshy wedge-shaped points). Fieldwork indicates that the new species has arestricted distribution and a total population of less than 1000 individuals; it is recommended to be placed in the IUCN category VU D 1, 2.
3393412|Freesia marginata (Iridaceae: Crocoideae) is a new species from the Breede River valley near Worcester in Western Cape Province, South Africa. A local endemic of succulent karoo shrubland, it resembles F. caryophyllacea in its flowers and short, prostrate leaves, but it is distinguished from all other species of Freesia by the leathery, somewhat glaucous leaves with a prominent submarginal vein. The four species previously placed in the genus Anomatheca are recognized in Freesia as the new subgenus Anomatheca. Three of the species, F. grandiflora, F. laxa, and F. verrucosa, are segregated into section Anomatheca, and F. viridis is placed in the new section Alatae.
10.2307/3391793|Nine new species (Cassiope membranifolia, Gaultheria heteromera, G. jingdongensis, G. longibracteolata, G. pseudonotabilis, G. purpurea, G. trigonoclada, Vaccinium rubescens, V. tenuiflorum), four new varieties (Enkianthus deflexus var. glabrescens, Gaultheria dumicola var. hirticaulis, G. griffithiana var. insignis, G. wardii var. elongata), a new name (G. straminea), and four new combinations (Enkianthus serrulatus var. sichuanensis, Gaultheria leucocarpa var. yunnanensis, G. leucocarpa var. psilocarpa, G. brevistipes) are proposed.
10.2307/3392076|A new species of Andira from Estado Bolvar, Venezuela, is described. Andira tervequinata R. T. Pennington, G. Aymard & N. Cuello is clearly distinct from all other Andira species, although it might be confused with A. trifoliolata Ducke because specimens often have some trifoliolate leaves.
10.2307/3392252|Two new species of Sterigmapetalum subg. Sterigmapetalum are described from Venezuela and Brazil: S. chrysophyllum and S. plumbeum. Relationships with related species are discussed, and an illustration for each species is provided. /// Se describen dos nuevas especies de Sterigmapetalum subgnero Sterigmapetalum de Venezuela y Brasil: S. chrysophyllum y S. plumbeum. Se discuten sus relaciones con las especies afines y se presentan ilustraciones de cada una de ellas.
10.2307/3391504|Micropolypodium differs from other genera of Grammitidaceae in having segments or pinnae each with a single unbranched or 1-forked vein, erect rhizomes, linear fronds generally less than 1 cm wide, unisoriate segments, and prominent hydathodes. About 30 species are known, most in tropical America and a few in eastern Asia. New combinations are made for the known species. A list of excluded names in Xiphopteris, in which most of the species have previously been placed, is provided.
10.2307/3392023|As a result of examination of the fern types from Museu Nacional do Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, and the need for valid names for regional floras, the following new combinations are made: Pecluma camptophyllaria var. macedoi, P. hoehnii, P. imbeana, and P. insularis.
20406141|Psychotria chamelaensis C. M. Taylor & E. Domnguez-Licona was previously confused with P. erythrocarpa Schlechtendal, but this new species can be recognized by its longer narrow calyx lobes and moderate to dense, usually appressed pubescence. It is well documented by specimens from the Chamela Biological Station in Jalisco, Mexico, and is so far known only from at or near that site. /// Psychotria chamelaensis C. M. Taylor & E. Domnguez-Licona haba sido confundida con P. erythrocarpa Schlechtendal, pero esta nueva especie puede ser reconocida por sus lbulos del cliz ms largos y angostos y por la pubescencia moderada a densa y usualmente adpresa. La especie est bien respaldada con ejemplares de la Estacin de Biologa de Chamela (IBUNAM) en Jalisco, Mxico y hasta ahora slo se conoce de ese sitio y sus alrededores.
40300904|A new species, Elymus fertilis Song Wang ex S. W. L. Jacobs & Barkworth (Gramineae, Triticeae), is described from New South Wales and Queensland, Australia, with a New South Wales specimen being designated as its holotype. Elymus fertilis is similar to E. multiflorus (Banks & Solander ex Hooker f.) . Lve & Connor, but differs in having longer awns on the lowest lemma of the spikelet and in growing mostly on basic soils of volcanic origin, whereas E. multiflorus is more common on alluvial soils. A key is supplied for the Australian species of Elymus.
10.2307/3391468|A new genus of Asclepiadaceae, Goydera, from Somalia, is described. The new genus is related to the African genera Blyttia and Diplostigma and is characterized by colorless latex, a highly fused, adaxially densely pubescent corolla, and a bulge carrying the gynostegium.
10.2307/3392226|Mutisia magnifica C. Ulloa & P. M. Jrgensen is described and illustrated. This species is distinguished by its large inflorescence heads, essentially glabrous phyllaries, ray florets with broadly elliptic, revolute ligulas, long inner lip segments, and long style. It is only known from the Cerro Uritusinga in the province of Loja, Ecuador. /// Se describe e ilustra Mutisia magnifica C. Ulloa & P. M. Jrgensen. Las caractersticas ms notables son los grandes captulos, las filarias prcticamente glabras, las lgulas elpticas, anchas y revolutas y, los segmentos del labio interior de las flores radiadas y el estilo largos. Esta especie slo se conoce del Cerro Uritusinga en la provincia de Loja, Ecuador.
10.2307/3392155|A new name in Diospyros, D. panamense S. Knapp, is coined to replace the homonymie D. whitei S. Knapp, and the name Brunfelsia cuneifolia J. A. Schmidt in Martius is lectotypified correctly with an extant specimen.
10.2307/3392087|Diplusodon bolivianus, a new species from Dept. Santa Cruz, Bolivia, is described and illustrated. Comparison is made to D. hirsutus, which it most closely resembles in floral morphology. This is the first report of Diplusodon for Bolivia and the first record of the genus occurring outside Brazil.
10.2307/3391450|The following five names are proposed for California oaks: Quercus john-tuckeri, nom. et stat. nov. for Quercus turbinella subsp. californica J. M. Tucker; Quercus pacifica, sp. nov.; Quercus x kinselae, stat. nov. for Quercus dumosa Nuttall var. kinselae C. H. Muller; Quercus durata var. gabrielensis Nixon & C. H. Muller, var. nov.; and Quercus parvula var. shrevei (C. H. Muller) Nixon, stat. nov. for Quercus shrevei C. H. Muller.
10.2307/3391873|Pedicularis longiflora Rudolph var. hongyuanensis Y. Tang is described, and the characters that distinguish it from the other varieties of P. longiflora are discussed.
40300905|A new narrow endemic species of Begonia L. (Begoniaceae) from the Atlantic Forest of Brazil is described and illustrated. Begonia caparaoensis E. L. Jacques & L. Kollmann occurs in a small area of Cachoeira Bonita, along the coast of the Jose Pedro River (2024'29"S, 4150'29"W), at the Parque Nacional do Caparao, Minas Gerais, Brazil, growing on rocky outcrops. Diagnostic characters, description, detailed illustration, and taxonomic comments are given. Begonia caparaoensis resembles B. jureiensis S. J. Gomes da Silva & Mamede, which shares its peltate leaf blades, bilamellate placentae, and obovate anthers, but is easily distinguished by its leaves with serrulate margins (vs. dentate) and its smaller stipules (ca. 7 X 9 mm vs. ca. 3 X 1.5 cm). Begonia caparaoensis is identified as Critically Endangered (CR B2a) according to IUCN Red List criteria. /// Uma nova espcie de Begonia L. (Begoniaceae) endmica da Mata Atlntica do Brasil  descrita e ilustrada. Begonia caparaoensis E. L. Jacques & L. Kollmann ocorre num pequeno trecho da Cachoeira Bonita, s margens do Rio Jos Pedro (2024'29"S, 4150'29"W), no Parque Nacional do Capara, Minas Gerais, Brasil, crescendo em formacoes rochosas. Caracteres diagnsticos, descrio, ilustrac, detalhada e comentrios taxonmicos sao apresentados. Begonia caparaoensis assemelha-se a B. jureiensis S. Gomes da Silva & Mamede, com a qual compartilha a lamina foliar peltada, a placenta bilamelada e as anteras obovadas, mas  facilmente distinta pelas folhas com margem serrulada (vs. dentada) e pelas estpulas menores (ca. 7 X 9 mm vs. ca. 3 X 1.5 cm). Begonia caparaoensis  ncluda na categoria Criticamente em Perigo (CR B2a) de acordo com os critrios da IUCN.
10.2307/3392092|Due to the priority of the epithet, a new combination, Alafia erythrophthalma (K. Schumann) Leeuwenberg, is needed; Alafia grandis Stapf is placed into synonymy. Two new species, A. falcata Leeuwenberg and A. velutina Leeuwenberg, have been discovered among the collections made in Gabon by Le Testu.
10.2307/3392152|Miconia capixaba belongs to Miconia sect. Miconia, series Paniculares Naudin. It is distinguished from related species by the dense, stellate trichomes on young branches, inflorescences, and hypanthia, as well as abaxial leaf surfaces, and by cuneate leaf bases, small panicles, triangular inner calyx lobes, and a papillose (otherwise glabrous) ovary apex. This species occurs in montane forests in the state of Esprito Santo, Brazil, a flora noted for other endemic taxa within Melastomataceae.
10.2307/3391830|Campyloneurum oellgaardii is newly described from a humid western premontane Andean forest of Ecuador. It appears to belong to the sphenodes group, which is characterized by undivided primary areoles and long petiolate leaves, and which includes C. coarctatum, C. inflatum, C. sphenodes, and C. sublucidum.
3393469| Plinia nana (Myrtaceae), a new species from the campos cerrados of the Brazilian state of Minas Gerais, is described, illustrated, and compared with the related Plinia cauliflora (Martius) Kausel, from which it is set apart by the shrubby habit and sessile cordate leaves. /// Plinia nana (Myrtaceae), uma nova espcie dos campos cerrados de Minas Gerais, Brasil,  descrita, ilustrada e comparada com Plinia cauliflora (Martius) Kausel, da qual se distingue principalmente pelo hbito arbustivo e pelas folhas ssseis e cordadas. 
10.2307/3391527|Pleurothallis discophylla and P. erythrogramma are described and illustrated. These new species are distributed in the Amazonian lowlands of Venezuela, Ecuador, Peru, and Bolivia. Pleurothallis discophylla has been previously misidentified in the literature as the Bolivian Pleurothallis coffeicola, which is almost certainly a synonym of the widespread P. casapensis.
10.2307/3392203|Orthomitrium tuberculatum gen. et sp. nov. (Orthotrichaceae, Orthotrichoideae) is described from Guizhou, China. The diagnostic characters are: (1) terminal sporophytes on the main (primary) stems, which continue growth by lateral innovations; (2) large, mitrate, plicate calyptrae covering the entire capsules; (3) ovoid or globose, smooth capsule with strongly plicate mouth; (4) single peristome; (5) immersed stomata in upper parts of capsules; and (6) large, multicellular spores. The genus is considered most closely related to Orthotrichum and Muelleriella.
10.2307/3392088|Two species are described as new: Marcgravia panamensis (subg. Orthothalamium-Pauciflorae), a new species from Panama, is the only species of the genus having leaves with dotted abaxial surfaces but only a few erect flowers per inflorescence. Marcgravia roonii (subg. Orthothalamium-Multiflorae), a new species from Costa Rica, Colombia, and Ecuador, has the typical leaves of M. nervosa but a completely different inflorescence structure. Marcgravia membranacea is considered to be a synonym of M. nervosa.
3393284|Two species of Scirpus are transferred to Phylloscirpus: Scirpus deserticola Philippi and Scirpus boliviensis Barros. Phylloscirpus deserticola has all the typical characteristics of the genus Phylloscirpus, such as eligulate leaves, a terminal head of spikelets, and scabrid hypogynous bristles. The allocation of Scirpus boliviensis to Phylloscirpus is morphologically less obvious due to its reduced structures, but is well supported by a phylogenetic analysis based on plastid rbcL and trnL-F sequence data. Phylloscirpus deserticola is lectotypified because the holotype consists of a mixed collection.
10.2307/3392268|Conceveiba parvifolia from Darin, Panama, and Antioquia, Colombia, is described and illustrated.
20406333|Twenty new species of Philodendron Schott (Araceae) from Bajo Calima, Colombia, are described as new: P. baudoense Croat & D. C. Bay, P. canicaule Croat & D. C. Bay, P. chrysocarpum Croat & D. C. Bay, P. coriaceum Croat & D. C. Bay, P. discretivenium Croat & D. C. Bay, P. dryanderae Croat & D. C. Bay, P. furcatum Croat, P. heterocraspedon Croat & D. C. Bay, P. hiberisiccans Croat & D. C. Bay, P. monsalveae Croat & D. C. Bay, P. ninoanum Croat & D. C. Bay, P. oblanceolatum Croat & D. C. Bay, P. polliciforme Croat & D. C. Bay, P. rhodospathiphyllum Croat & D. C. Bay, P. rubromaculatum Croat & D. C. Bay, P. striatum Croat & D. C. Bay, P. suberosum Croat & D. C. Bay, P. tricostatum Croat & D. C. Bay, P. trojitense Croat & D. C. Bay, and P. venulosum Croat & D. C. Bay. /// Viente nuevas especies del Philodendron Schott (Araceae) de Bajo Calima, Colombia, se describen como nuevas: P. baudoense Croat & D. C. Bay, P. canicaule Croat & D. C. Bay, P. chrysocarpum Croat & D. C. Bay, P. coriaceum Croat & D. C. Bay, P. discretivenium Croat & D. C. Bay, P. dryanderae Croat & D. C. Bay, P. furcatum Croat & D. C. Bay, P. heterocraspedon Croat & D. C. Bay, P. hiberisiccans Croat & D. C. Bay, P. monsalveae Croat & D. C. Bay, P. ninoanum Croat & D. C. Bay, P. oblanceolatum Croat & D. C. Bay, P. polliciforme Croat & D. C. Bay, P. rhodospathiphyllum Croat & D. C. Bay, P. rubromaculatum Croat & D. C. Bay, P. striatum Croat & D. C. Bay, P. suberosum Croat & D. C. Bay, P. tricostatum Croat & D. C. Bay, P. trojitense Croat & D. C. Bay y P. venulosum Croat & D. C. Bay.
10.2307/3393060|Based on morphology and karyology, we found the eastern North American species Carex bicknellii (sect. Ovales) to be a complex of four species. We describe two new species, C. missouriensis and C. shinnersii, and raise one variety, C. bicknellii var. opaca, to species rank as C. opaca. The three species segregated from C. bicknellii have lower chromosome numbers: n = 23 II + 1 III to 27 II for C. missouriensis, n = 29 II + 1 III to 30 II for C. shinnersii, and n = 32 II + 1 III to 34 II for C. opaca. All three species are characterized by large tussocks, herbaceous textured foliage and smooth sheaths, and long apiculum on the achenes; they occupy hydric habitats. Carex missouriensis, a species characterized by awned pistillate scales, grows in remnant prairie swales from western Indiana to southeastern Nebraska. Carex opaca, with blunt scales and large perigynia, has a narrow distribution mostly limited to the periphery of the Ozark Mountain system. Carex shinnersii, with acuminate but unawned scales and perigynia smaller than C. opaca and C. missouriensis, ranges from northern Texas to southern Kansas. This last species is also contrasted with C. brevior, a species with similar morphology and overlapping range. Carex bicknellii in the strict sense is morphologically similar to the northeastern species C. merritt-fernaldii. They both have few culms per tussock, coriaceous foliage with papillose sheaths, papery, erose-margined perigynia, achenes with a very short apiculum, and relatively high chromosome numbers (n = 35 II to 39 II). These two species differ in characters of the anther, achene, and perigynium. They occupy more or less xeric habitats, especially in the Central Plains of the United States (C. bicknellii) and southern Canada eastward from the Great Lakes region (C. merritt-fernaldii).
10.2307/3391500|Continuing studies in Peruvian Myrsine have revealed eight species new to science. These species are described and illustrated, and their systematic relationships are discussed. Treatment of Rapanea as a taxonomic synonym of Myrsine necessitates six new combinations for Peruvian species and another four combinations for related taxa from Colombia, Ecuador, Bolivia, and Brazil.
3393424|During a taxonomic revision of the Brazilian species of Andropogon, the need for lectotypification of the following names became apparent: Andropogon arenarius Hackel f. subcompletus Hackel, Andropogon bicornis L. var. gracillimus Hackel, Andropogon carinatus Nees, Andropogon carinatus var. leiophyllus Hackel, Andropogon hypogynus Hackel, Andropogon ingratus Hackel, Andropogon palustris Pilger, and Andropogon selloanus (Hackel) Hackel.
3393348| A new species from Chile, Leucocoryne talinensis, is described and illustrated. It is known from Talinay and Fray Jorge in Limar Province, from roadsides and adjacent fields. Its chromosome number and relationship to the most closely related species are discussed. /// Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie de Chile, Leucocoryne talinensis, conocida de las localidades de Talinay y Fray Jorge (Provincia de Limar, 30S), donde crece a orillas de la carretera y en campos adyacentes. Se da a conocer su nmero cromosmico y se discute su relacin con la especie ms cercana. 
10.2307/3393372|Cipura gigas is a new species of this Neotropical genus of nine species that extend from Paraguay in the south to Cuba and Mexico in the north. Apparently most closely related to the widespread C. paludasa, C. gigas is distinguished by its height (50-100 cm), the large bulb (ca. 3 cm diam.) with resinous tunics, basal leaves that are mostly 8-10 mm wide, lilac-purple flowers, and the inner tepals that form a narrow-mouthed urn-like cup 10-13 mm long. The species is restricted to the Orinoco basin of eastern Colombia and adjacent Venezuela. We provide a revised key to the genus.
23018453|Manglietia crassifolia Q. N. Vu, N. H. Xia & Sima, a new species of Magnoliaceae from Lao Cai Province in northern Vietnam, is described and illustrated. It is most closely related to M. dandyi (Gagnep.) Dandy and M. megaphylla Hu & W. C. Cheng, but differs in its broadly ovoid terminal buds, the thickly leathery leaf blade that is abaxially densely villous with appressed, ferruginous-brown, matted hairs, the purplish cream outermost tepals, the glabrous and purplish red stamens with obtuse appendages, and the ellipsoid, very short-beaked fruits.
10.2307/3391387|Wood anatomy of Ruptiliocarpon caracolito is described and compared in general to Sapindales, and specifically to Trichilia (Meliaceae) and the monotypic, African Lepidobotrys (Lepidobotryaceae). It is aberrant in all groups compared for having vestured pits. Otherwise, it is most similar to both Trichilia and Lepidobotrys. Wood anatomy does not conflict with the recognition of Ruptiliocarpon as a second genus of Lepidobotryaceae; however, the question of affinities of that family needs further investigation.
10.2307/3391967|Three new species of Clavija, C. laplanadae (Nario, Colombia), C. subandina (Napo, Ecuador), and C. obtusifolia (Hunuco-San Martn, Peru), are described and illustrated, and their affinities are briefly discussed.
40300921|Se estudiaron las especies de Lonchocarpus Kunth sect. Punctati Bentham (Leguminosae) para Mesoamrica. De las 12 especies reconocidas, cinco son nuevas para la ciencia. Las especies nuevas, L angusticarpus M. Sousa, L berriozabalensis Miranda ex M. Sousa, L cristatus M. Sousa, L linaresii M. Sousa y L vittatus M. Sousa, y una nueva combinacin L. vallicola (Standley & F. J. Hermann) M. Sousa, se describen e ilustran. Se lectotipifican a Cyanobotrys mexicana Zuccarini y a Denis peninsularis Donnell Smith. Las especies mesoamericanas de la sect. Punctati se contrastan con una clave dicotomica. /// An account of section Punctati Bentham for the genus Lonchocarpus Kunth in Mesoamerica is given. Of the 12 species treated, five are new to science, and one new combination is made, L. vallicola (Standley & F. J. Hermann) M. Sousa. The new species described and illustrated here are L. angusticarpus M. Sousa, L. berriozabalensis Miranda ex M. Sousa, L cristatus M. Sousa, L linaresii M. Sousa, and L vittatus M. Sousa. Cyanobotrys mexicana Zuccarini and Denis peninsularis Donnell Smith are lectotypified. The Mesoamerican species of section Punctati are contrasted with a dichotomous key.
3393405| Cuphea nivea from northwestern Bolivia is described and illustrated. Seed and pollen characters relate it most closely to C. ciliata, a species occurring from southern Venezuela to southern Peru. The small xylopodium and heath-like leaves of the species suggest it is adapted to grassland habitats that experience seasonal fires. /// En el presente trabajo se describe e ilustra Cuphea nivea de la regin noroccidental de Bolivia. Los caracteres de las semillas y de los granos de polen la relacionan muy estrechamente con C. ciliata, una especie que se distribuye desde el sur de Venezuela hasta el sur de Per. El xilopodio pequeo y las hojas ericoides de la especie sugieren su adaptacin a hbitats dominados por pastos que sufren impactos de quemas estacionales. 
10.2307/3392185|Aristea teretifolia and A. cantharophila are new species from the winter-rainfall region of southern Africa. Both belong in section Pseudaristea, one of eight sections of this genus of ca. 52 species of sub-Saharan Africa and Madagascar. Aristea teretifolia has pink, mauve, or cream flowers, the inner tepals of which are longer than the outer and have a large dark blotch near the base, and stands out in the section in its very narrow linear or sometimes terete leaves. Aristea cantharophila has narrow, linear to sword-shaped leaves fairly typical of the section, and mauve or white flowers with subequal tepals, each of which has a zone of dark color near the base. In their long pedicels, oblong-trigonous ovary, large and deeply fringed stigma lobes, and woody, elongate, tardily dehiscent capsules these new species conform closely to the characteristic features of section Pseudaristea. Field observation suggests that both species are adapted for pollination by monkey beetles (Scarabidae: Rutelinae), which use the flowers of these and at least one other species of the section as sites for feeding and mating. The dark markings on the tepals appear to mimic beetles and presumably encourage visits by these insects.
10.2307/3391734|Delimitation of genera in the Tovomita group of tribe Clusieae has fluctuated, in Central America, with almost every new floristic work. Nevertheless, with some aberrations, the theme of a unified Chrysochlamys/Tovomitopsis has persisted and is here supported by concurring with Bentham and Hooker's placement of Tovomitopsis in synonymy of Chrysochlamys. The strictly South American Balboa is also placed in synonymy of Chrysochlamys; this action necessitates a new name (here provided) for its only species. A key to the 13 species of Chrysochlamys recognized for Mexico and Central America is provided. An annotated list of all Mesoamerican Chrysochlamys, including brief descriptions, taxonomic and nomenclatural notes, five new combinations, and two new species, elucidates the generic concept and provides a rationalized nomenclature for use in numerous regional floras. Tovomita croatii Maguire, a somewhat problematic species, transferred to Tovomitopsis by D'Arcy, is included in the key to Chrysochlamys and fully discussed.
3393554|Aleuritopteris gongshanensis G. M. Zhang, a new species of Pteridaceae from Yunnan Province, China, is described and illustrated. The new species is very similar to A. pseudoargentea S. K. Wu, but differs in its ovate-deltate fronds with white farina abaxially, an indusial margin distinctly lacerate, and spores with a reticulate-cristate perine.
10.2307/3391481|During a vegetation survey of the So Jose mountain range in Minas Gerais, Brazil, the species Sarcoglottis caudata (Orchidaceae) and Vellozia kolbekii (Velloziaceae) were discovered; they are here described as new to science.
10.2307/3393514|The combination Psilanthus brassii (J.-F. Leroy) A. P. Davis, based on the basionym Paracoffea brassii J.-F. Leroy, is proposed. Herbarium research shows that Psilanthus brassii (Rubiaceae, Coffeeae) occurs in northeastern Australia and Papua New Guinea. Nomenclatural notes on the genus Paracoffea J.-F. Leroy, a generic synonym of Psilanthus Hooker f., are provided.
20406346|Four new species of Gentianella Moench are described from Peru. Gentianella iberidea J. S. Pringle differs from G. graminea (Kunth) Fabris in its obtuse, non-arcuate leaves. Gentianella sagasteguii J. S. Pringle differs from similar species in its combination of linear-elliptic leaves, narrowly triangular calyx lobes, and lilac, widely campanulate to subrotate corollas with the lobes (1.1-)1.7-2 as long as the tube. Gentianella smithii J. S. Pringle differs from G. paludicola (Gilg) J. S. Pringle and G. roseolilacina (Gilg) J. S. Pringle in its perennial habit and blue corollas. Gentianella uberula J. S. Pringle differs from G. sagasteguii in its wider leaves and less deeply lobed corollas. /// Se describen cuatro nuevas especies de Gentianella Moench del Per. Gentianella iberidea J. S. Pringle se diferencia de G. graminea (Kunth) Fabris por las hojas obtusas no arqueadas. Gentianella sagasteguii J. S. Pringle se diferencia de las especies de habito parecido por las hojas lineares, las lbulos del cliz angustamente triangulares y las corolas lilacinas de lbulos de largo (1.1-)1.7-2 que del tubo. Gentianella smithii J. S. Pringle se diferencia de G. paludicola (Gilg) J. S. Pringle y G. roseolilacina (Gilg) J. S. Pringle por el hbito perenne y las corolas azules. Gentianella uberula J. S. Pringle se diferencia de G. sagasteguii por las hojas ms anchos y las corolas lobulados menos profundamente.
10.2307/3393377| Uvariopsis submontana Kenfack, Gosline & Gereau (Annonaceae) is described from premontane habitats in western Cameroon. The new species is morphologically most similar to U. korupensis Gereau & Kenfack, recently described from lower elevations in western Cameroon. The monotypic genus Dennettia Baker f. is completely consistent with the morphological and palynological circumscription of Uvariopsis Engler, and is included in the latter genus under the new combination U. tripetala (Baker f.) G. E. Schatz. A key to the 16 species of this tropical African genus is presented. /// Uvariopsis submontana Kenfack, Gosline & Gereau (Annonaceae) est dcrit d'habitats prmontagnards de l'Ouest du Cameroun. Quant  sa morphologie, la nouvelle espce ressemble au plus prs l'U. korupensis Gereau & Kenfack, rcemment dcrit d'altitudes plus basses de l'Ouest du Cameroun. Le genre monotypique Dennettia Baker f. est tout  fait consistent avec la circonscription morphologique et palynologique d'Uvariopsis Engler et est inclu dans celui-ci sous la nouvelle combinaison Uvariopsis tripetala (Baker f.) G. E. Schatz. Une cl des 16 espces de ce genre de l'Afrique tropicale est prsente. 
20406021|A new species of Caesalpinia (Leguminosae, Caesalpinioideae) from China is described and illustrated as Caesalpinia yunnanensis S. J. Li, D. X. Zhang & Z. Y. Chen. The new taxon is known only from the type locality in Xishuangbanna, Yunnan, China, and resembles C. crista L., a species widely distributed in pantropical regions.
3393358|Plectranthus igniarioides Ryding, a new species from northern Somalia, is described and illustrated. Comparison is made with P. argentifolius Ryding, P. bariensis Ryding, P. cuneatus (E. G. Baker) Ryding, P. gillettii J. K. Morton, P. igniarius (Schweinfurth) Agnew, and P. puberulentus J. K. Morton. The circumscription of Plectranthus gillettii, which has been reported to occur in Somalia, is refined to include only the material known from Ethiopia and Kenya.
10.2307/3391413|A species from the Crystal Mountains in Gabon, whose name was previously invalidly published, is here named Pogonophora letouzeyi to honor Ren Letouzey.
23018442|Briza L. (Poaceae, Pooideae, Poeae) is a genus with a controversial circumscription, being either considered sensu lato, including Eurasian and South American species (e.g., Longhi-Wagner, 1987), or sensu stricto, including only four Eurasian species and being considered closely related to the South American species, forming the Briza complex (Matthei, 1975). According to recent phylogenetic analysis, Briza should be accepted sensu stricto, with four Eurasian species, as proposed by Matthei (1975) and other authors. The American species, which were previously published under Briza s.l. or under the genera Calotheca Desv., Chascolytrum Desv., Erianthecium Parodi, Gymnachne Parodi, Lombardochloa Roseng. & B. R. Arrill., Microbriza Parodi ex Nicora & Rgolo, Poidium Nees, and Rhombolytrum Link, should be included within Chascolytrum, the oldest generic name published for the American species of the complex. As a result, the following 13 new combinations are proposed in Chascolytrum: C. ambiguum (Hack.) Essi, Longhi-Wagner & Souza-Chies, C. bidentatum (Roseng., B. R. Arrill. & Izag.) Essi, Longhi-Wagner & Souza-Chies, C. brachychaetum (Ekman) Essi, Longhi-Wagner & Souza-Chies, C. brasiliense (Nees ex Steud.) Essi, Longhi-Wagner & Souza-Chies, C. brizoides (Lam.) Essi, Longhi-Wagner & Souza-Chies, C. bulbosum (Parodi) Essi, Longhi-Wagner & Souza-Chies, C. calotheca (Trin.) Essi, Longhi-Wagner & Souza-Chies, C. itatiaiae (Ekman) Essi, Longhi-Wagner & Souza-Chies, C. koelerioides (Trin.) Essi, Longhi-Wagner & Souza-Chies, C. monandrum (Hack.) Essi, Longhi-Wagner & Souza-Chies, C. poomorphum (J. Presl) Essi, Longhi-Wagner & Souza-Chies, C. rhomboideum (Link) Essi, Longhi-Wagner & Souza-Chies, and C. uniolae (Nees) Essi, Longhi-Wagner & Souza-Chies. The names Poa koelerioides Trin., Poa tumidula Steud., Poidium brasiliense Nees ex Steud., and Rhombolytrum berteroanum E. Desv. are lectotypified.
10.2307/3391638|Petroravenia eseptata Al-Shehbaz, an Argentinean new genus and species, is described and illustrated. Its relationships to Draba L., the North American Cusickiella Rollins, and the South American Eudema Humboldt & Bonpland, Onuris Philippi, Sarcodraba Gilg & Muschler, and Dactylocardamum Al-Shehbaz are discussed.
23259346|Strychnos puberula McPherson (Loganiaceae) is described as a new species from Panama, differing from the otherwise similar S. guianensis (Aubl.) Mart. in its indument of minute hairs, lack of leaf domatia, consistently 4-merous flowers, and short-stipitate, relatively thick-walled fruit.
10.2307/3393151|Commelina disperma Faden is described from Tanzania and is separated from C. zenkeri and C. macrosperma by its seeds. Commelina kituloensis Faden is described from the southern highlands of Tanzania and the Nyika Plateau of Malawi and Zambia and is distinguished from C. hockii by spathe, floral, capsular, and seed characters. Commelina zenkeri C. B. Clarke is found to be the correct name for a Ugandan species that was thought to be undescribed.
20406017|The new species Cassipourea korupensis Kenfack & Sainge (Rhizophoraceae) from western Cameroon is described and illustrated, and its conservation status discussed. Unlike other species of subgenus Lasiosepalum Alston, in which it is provisionally placed, the new species has a distinctive glabrous ovary and a cupuliform calyx.
43289118|Muellera tozziana M. J. Silva (Millettieae, Leguminosae), a new species endemic to Brazil, is described and illustrated on the basis of field studies during the taxonomic revision of the genus. The species is morphologically similar to M. denudata (Benth.) M. Sousa, but it differs and can be characterized by its falcate or oblong-falcate fruits, glabrescent with upper margin discreetly thickened; the pubescent staminal tube and free portion of the filaments and anthers; subtruncate calyx, and delicate leaves. Muellera tozziana M. J. Silva (Millettieae, Leguminosae), urna nova espcie endmica para o Brasil,  descrita e ilustrada baseada em estudos de campo durante a reviso taxonmica do gnero. A especie  morfologicamente semelhante a M. denudata (Benth.) M. Sousa, mas difere e pode ser caracterizada pelos frutos falcados a oblongo-falcados, glabrescentes e levemente espessados na margem superior, tubo estaminal, poro livre dos filetes e anteras pubescentes, clice subtruncado e folhas delicadas.
10.2307/3393218|Descriptions and illustrations are provided for the following new species: Ouratea lajaensis Sastre and O. arbobrevicalyx Sastre (sect. Kaieteurea), O. kanukuensis Sastre, O. pseudomarahuacensis Sastre (sect. Ouratea), O. multibracteata Steyermark ex Sastre, O. heterobracteata Sastre (sect. Ouratella), O. vieirae Sastre, O. papulosa Sastre, O. orisina Sastre (sect. Caducae, with spicate inflorescences), O. saldariagae Sastre, O. pulverulenta Sastre, O. obovata Sastre (sect. Caducae, with short, paniculate inflorescences), O. fusiformis Sastre, O. megaphylla Sastre, O. maguirei Sastre, O. rorida Sastre, O. elongata Sastre, O. maigualidae Sastre (sect. Caducae, with large, paniculate inflorescences). In addition, a new combination is made for Ouratea stipulata (Vellozo) Sastre (basionym Ochna stipulata Vellozo), and a short biogeographical synthesis of the Ouratea in the Guayana Shield is presented.
20406343|A new species, Microtropis xizangensis Q. W. Lin & Z. X. Zhang, is described and illustrated. This species is similar to M. discolor (Wallich) Wallich ex Meisner in having 4-merous flowers and no disk, and differs from it mainly by having 1- to 3-flowered inflorescences, non-carinate petals, and rostrate capsules. The new species is determined as Vulnerable (VU) according to IUCN Red List Categories and Criteria.
3393346|In the course of writing the account of Scrophulariaceae for the Flora Yunnanica, it was noticed that one species of Mimulicalyx, M. paludigenus, described from Yunnan Province, southwestern China, in 1979 was invalid because two type specimens (one fruiting, one in flower) were designated. The name is validated here, with the fruiting specimen designated as the holotype.
10.2307/3391561|A new species of Annona sect. Atta from the upper altitudinal limit of the Pacific dry forest of Nicaragua and Costa Rica is proposed based upon a distinctive abaxial leaf epidermis. In addition, the analysis of flowers discovered for Annona longipes necessitates its transfer to section Atta.
10.2307/3391831|Beilschmiedia angustielliptica is described and illustrated. Morphologically this species is easy to recognize because of its long, reticulate (but not foveolate) lanceolate leaves, its glabrous anthers, and its glabrate ovary. So far, this species is known only from the central mountains of Guerrero, Mexico. /// Se describe e ilustra Beilschmiedia angustielliptica. Entre las otras especies del gnero esta nueva especie es fcil de reconocer por sus hojas grandes, lanceoladas, reticuladas (pero no foveoladas), sus anteras glabras, y su ovario glabrado. Hasta ahora esta especie slo se conoce de las montaas centrales de Guerrero, Mxico.
10.2307/3391904|A new species is described and five new combinations are made in Kengyilia. The new taxa are Kengyilia eremopyroides and K. batalinii var. villosissima. Kengyilia longiglumis and K. nana are reduced to K. alatavica var. longiglumis and K. nana to K. batalinii var. nana, respectively. Roegneria carinata, Elytrigia kryloviana, and Elytrigia pulcherrima are transferred to Kengyilia as K. carinata, K. kryloviana, and K. pulcherrima, respectively.
10.2307/3391775|We describe and illustrate a new species of Calibrachoa (Solanaceae) from the state of Santa Catarina in southern Brazil. Calibrachoa eglandulata is distinguished by the presence of eglandular trichomes, relatively long stamens and corolla tubes, lobed stigmas, and pendent branches. The eglandular trichomes are unique to this species. We also propose nine new combinations in Calibrachoa.
20406036|Eleocharis laeviglumis is a new species from the Brazilian flora. This species belongs to Eleocharis subg. Limnochloa (P. Beauvois ex T. Lestiboudois) Torrey and is very similar to Eleocharis elongata Chapman. The new species differs from all species of Eleocharis R. Brown by culms terete, not septate; lower scale fertile; upper scales cartilaginous, smooth, without prominent veins, with submarginal band vinaceous to brown, hyaline margin conspicuous and abruptly differentiated from the rest of scale; slender bristles; achenes trigonous, reticulate, and without a short neck on the apex. Morphological description, illustration, data on habitat, and comparison with the similar species are presented. /// Eleocharis laeviglumis  uma nova espcie descrita para a flora brasileira. Esta espcie pertence a Eleocharis subg. Limnochloa (P. Beauvois ex T. Lestiboudois) Torrey e  muito semelhante a Eleocharis elongata Chapman. A nova espcie diferenciase das outras espcies do gnero Eleocharis pelos colmos cilndricos, no septados; gluma inferior frtil; glumas superiores cartilaginosas, lisas, de nervuras inconspcuas, com uma faixa submarginal vincea a castanha, margem hialina desenvolvida e nitidamente delimitada do restante da gluma; cerdas hipginas tenues; aqunios trgonos, reticulados, e sem colo no pice. Apresenta-se a descrio morfolgica, ilustrao, dados sobre o habitat, e uma comparao com a espcie similar.
20406352|Stenogyne kauaulaensis K. R. Wood & H. Oppenheimer (Lamiaceae), a narrow endemic from Kaua'ula, West Maui, Hawai'i, U.S.A., is described and illustrated. The new species differs from other known species of Stenogyne Bentham by its combination of flowers raised on a common peduncle, broadly campanulate calyx with large foliaceous teeth, strongly falcate corolla, and exserted stamens. Known from approximately 15 naturally occurring individuals, S. kauaulaensis easily falls into the Critically Endangered IUCN Red List category and is successfully cultivated for conservation.
10.2307/3392074|The species of Prestonia (Apocynaceae) sect. Tomentosae in Central America are treated in a brief synopsis: new synonymies are provided and three new species, Prestonia clandestina, P. hammelii, and P. riverae, are described. In addition, Prestonia seemannii Miers is removed from synonymy of P. ipomaefolia.
10.2307/3393206|Eleocharis diandra is an annual spikesedge of northeastern U.S. river and lake shores. This species has a complicated taxonomic history and has been included in the synonymy of other members of the Eleocharis ovata complex by various researchers. Its differing applications are due, in part, to the existence of a previously undescribed taxon. The new species Eleocharis aestuum is described from the eastern United States and is restricted to freshwater tidal river communities. This species is similar to E. diandra in its marked absence or reduction of perianth bristles, but it differs in floral scale and tubercle morphology. Despite limited regional variation in morphology, E. aestuum is morphologically separable from other spikesedges throughout its range. Recognition of this new species reveals that E. diandra is geographically restricted and globally imperiled. Conservation action is needed for both species.
10.2307/3391494|The existence of a Hypnella species (Hypnella ambrosia, sp. nov.) with short marginal leaf cells, cells with walls projecting at the upper ends, occasionally doubly serrate leaf margins, costae serrate above, and costal tips strongly projecting as spines is suggestive of a close generic relationship to Hookeriopsis sensu lato.
23018471|Astragalus baerlukensis L. R. Xu, Zhao Y. Chang & Xiao L. Liu, a new species of Leguminosae, is described from northwestern Xinjiang, China. The new species is similar to A. ellipsoideus Ledeb. but differs by its notably long and filiform calyx teeth 6 8(9) mm, oblong capitate racemes 2.53.5 cm long, and linear bracts 810 mm long. The latter taxon has shorter, subulate calyx teeth only to 34 mm, obovate capitate racemes 36 cm, and shorter, subulate-lanceolate bracts 56 mm long.
20406226|As part of research leading to a treatment of the family Crossosomataceae for the Flora of North America Project, the new combination Glossopetalon spinescens (A. Gray) Greene var. planitierum (Ensign) Yatskievych is proposed to account for plants in the G. spinescens complex endemic to a small portion of the United States in the Texas Panhandle and adjacent Colorado, New Mexico, and Oklahoma. The change in status from species to variety is justified in light of the subtle patterns of morphological variation within the complex as a whole, which in recent decades has resulted in the reclassification of several other former species of Glossopetalon A. Gray as varieties of G. spinescens.
10.2307/3391948|Encalypta tianschanica, a new Chinese endemic from Xinjiang province, is described, illustrated, and compared with E. buxbaumioidea T. Cao, C. Gao & X.-L. Bai, an Inner Mongolian endemic that has narrowly pyriform capsules and a strongly excurrent costa. The new species is distinguished by its ovoid capsules, which are abruptly contracted to a very small mouth, and by its costa ending well below the leaf apex. The presence of distally "warty" spores places the new species in section Rhabdotheca C. Mller. A key to the six species of Encalypta Hedwig in Xinjiang is included.
10.2307/3392962|Lycianthes manantlanensis is described as a new species from Mexico. Lycianthes manantlanensis is recognized by its glabrous, coriaceous, and shiny leaves, long slender pedicels at anthesis and in fruit, and minute calyx appendages. It is morphologically similar to L. barbatula, L. geminiflora, and L. orogenes and is here compared with them. /// Se describe e ilustra a Lycianthes manantlanensis como una especie nueva que crece en Mxico. Lycianthes manantlanensis se reconoce por sus hojas glabras, coriceas y brillosas; pedicelos largos y delgados en la antesis y fructincacin y cliz con pequeos apndices. El taxn propuesto es morfolgicamente similar a L. barbatula, L. geminiflora y L. orogenes con las cuales se compara.
10.2307/3391419|Calathea liesneri, from Territorio Federal Amazonas, Venezuela, is unusual in having the upper side of the lamina pilose throughout. It differs from other species sharing this feature by leaf shape, and bract shape and number. It is herein described as new for inclusion in the Flora of the Venezuelan Guyana treatment.
10.2307/3392112|Plagiochila bazzanioides, a new species from New Zealand, is described and illustrated.
20406247|Goodyera dongchenii var. gongligongensis X. H. Jin & S. C. Chen (Orchidaceae) is described from Yunnan, China. It differs from the typical variety by having strongly white-reticulate leaves and lip up to 1 cm long.
10.2307/3391826|Paspalum niquelandiae Filgueiras, a new species of Poaceae from the serpentine outcrops of Niquelndia, a municipality in the Brazilian state of Gois, is described, illustrated, and compared with Paspalum soboliferum Chase, P. humboldtianum Flugge, and P. inconstans Chase. The conservational importance of a serpentine endemic grass flora in central Brazil is briefly discussed.
23259336|Musa itinerans Cheesman var. formosana (Warb.) Hkkinen & C. L. Yeh is one of the three wild bananas in Taiwan and represents the taxon previously recognized as M. formosana (Warb. ex Schum.) Hayata [ M. basjoo Siebold & Zucc. ex Iinuma var. formosana (Warb. ex Schum.) S. S. Ying]. The gross morphology of M. itinerans var. formosana is stable. Some populations without variegation on the pericarps and the bracts of male buds were mainly found in a restricted area of northeast Taiwan. The morphological characteristics of the nonvariegated populations are otherwise similar to those of M. itinerans var. formosana. Their principal distinction is based on the absence of the purplish red streaking on both the pericarps and the male, fertile bracts. This character of nonvariegation is stable across the taxon's habitat and as cultivated through a 9-year period of observation. From molecular evidence, the DNA sequence for the ITS region of ribosomal DNA (rDNA) is highly similar in both populations. The nonvariegated population is herein segregated as the new variety, M. itinerans var. kavalanensis H. L. Chiu, C. T. Shii & T. Y. A. Yang. Photos for the three varietal taxa, M. itinerans var. chinensis, variety formosana, and variety kavalanensis, and a key to Taiwanese wild bananas are also provided.
10.2307/3392063|Cardamine lojanensis, a new Ecuadorian species from Loja Province, is described and illustrated. Its relationship to the nearest South American species is discussed.
10.2307/3391538|Se conocen dos especies de la Amazona Peruana: L. stenocarpa se report de Per; L. jensonii se describe nueva para la ciencia. /// In the Peruvian Amazon, there are two known species of Lissocarpa: L. stenocarpa is recorded from Peru; L. jensonii is here considered as a new species.
40300888|Myriocarpa Bentham (Urtieaeeae), a genus endemic to Central and South America, is characterized by string-like pendent pistillate inflorescences. Among Mesoamerican species, there is significant confusion over the application of names, especially M. bifurca Liebmann, M. cordifolia Liebmann, and M. heterospicata Donnell Smith. Two new species from Mesoamerica are described and illustrated: M. cubilgueitzensis A. K. Monro and M. trifurca A. K. Monro. In addition, a key to the seven species recognized for Mesoamerica and a nomenclatural review are provided. The names M. bifurca Liebmann, M. cordifolia Liebmann, and M. longipes Liebmann are lectotypified, and the name M. colipensis Liebmann is neotypified.
10.2307/3392118|Four new South American species of Memora (M. cidii, M. contracta, M. sastrei, and M. velutina) are described and three are illustrated. Memora cidii has flattened inflorescence axes, campanulate calyces, and bracteoles extending beyond the calyx tip. Glands at the base of the corolla lobes distinguish M. contracta, and M. sastrei is unique in having conspicuous yellow-dendroid pubescence on its inflorescence axes and calyces. Memora velutina is distinguished by pilose pubescence throughout. Relationships of these species to other Memora species are discussed.
10.2307/3392974|A regional synopsis of the genus Blakea is presented that recognizes 33 species in Mexico and Central America. This summary includes a key, distributional and phenological information, notes on morphological variation, and discussions that provide rationale for relegating six binomials to synonymy. Descriptions and diagnoses are presented for four new species of Blakea (B. coloradensis, B. darcyana, and B. perforata from Panama; and B. wilsoniorum from southern Costa Rica and Panama). Analysis of the type specimens and recently collected flowering material of Topobea storkii necessitates its transfer to Blakea. Three other species (B. cuatrecasii, B. repens, and B. subconnata var. obtusa), all of which were previously known from Andean South America, are reported from Panama for the first time.
27765213|A new species, Chelonopsis praecox Weckerle & F. Huber (Lamiaceae, Lamioideae) from southwest China, is described and illustrated, and its relationship to morphologically similar species is discussed. Chelonopsis praecox differs from the other species of the genus by its characteristic to bear flowers and fruits in springtime and early summer, before the development of leaves during the summer rainy season, while all other Chelonopsis species flower during summer or autumn. Prominent distinguishing morphological features are found in the stem bark, leaf size and indumentum, and inflorescences. So far, the species is only known from the northern part of the Shuiluo Valley in southwest Sichuan; additional collectionsare necessary to clarify its full distributional range.
10.2307/3392961|Holomitrium azuayensis differs from all other species of Holomitrium known from South America, Central America, and the Caribbean by its completely entire leaf margins. Holomitrium xolocotzianum H. A. Crum from Mexico is a similar species that has entire leaf margins below, but the leaves are toothed at the apex. It is a much smaller plant with shorter leaves that have a cucullate apex. Also similar is H. pulchellum Mitten from Central America and northern South America. It has subentire or weakly crenulate to sometimes serrate leaf margins, but it has more slender and erect leaves than H. azuayensis. The alar region in H. pulchellum is only weakly differentiated, and often fugacious, which also distinguishes it from H. azuayensis. This new moss species is currently known from Ecuador.
3393277| Monochaetum vestitum, la cual se caracteriza por su hbito decumbente, flores solitarias e hipantio con denso indumento que entremezcla tricomas adpresos y diminuto barbelados y tricomas glandulares, es descrita de la Cordillera de Talamanca en Costa Rica. Esta especie es ilustrada y comparada con la superficialmente similar y simptrica M. trichophyllum Almeda pero sta no parece tener estrecha relacin con sus congneres. /// Monochaetum vestitum, which is characterized by its decumbent habit, solitary flowers, and dense hypanthial indument of appressed minutely barbellate and smooth gland-tipped hairs, is described from Costa Rica's Cordillera de Talamanca. It is illustrated and compared to the superficially similar and sympatric M. trichophyllum Almeda, but it appears to have no close relatives among described congeners. 
10.2307/3392108|The unusual degree of variation within Hoffmannia populations and the difficulty in clearly defining some Mesoamerican species are discussed. Two new species, Hoffmannia dwyeri and H. fortunensis, both endemic to the Chiriqu highlands, are described.
3393457| Agave valenciana (Agavaceae), a new species from Jalisco, western Mexico, is described and illustrated. This species is endemic to a small section of the canyons of the Mascota and Talpa rivers. It belongs to the Agave subgenus Agave L. and to the Marmoratae species group. It appears to be closely related to A. marmorata Roezl from Puebla and Oaxaca. It differs from the latter in having a much larger rosette diameter, it has fewer but longer and wider leaves, much larger flowers, and it grows in less arid environments. This discovery has implications for "raicilla" production, an alcoholic tequila-like beverage traditionally manufactured in western Jalisco, Mexico. /// Se describe y se ilustra Agave valenciana (Agavaceae), una especie nueva de Jalisco, en el occidente de Mxico. Esta especie es endmica de una porcin de las cuencas de los ros Mascota y Talpa. Pertenece al subgnero Agave L. y al grupo Marmoratae. Su pariente ms cercano parece ser A. marmorata Roezl de Puebla y Oaxaca. Difiere de esta ltima en tener un mayor dimetro de roseta, menos hojas pero ms largas y anchas, flores ms grandes y crece en ambientes menos ridos. Este descubrimiento tiene implicaciones en la produccin de "raicilla", una bebida similar al tequila que se produce tradicionalmente en el oeste de Jalisco, Mxico. 
10.2307/3391639|Draba lapaziana, D. inquisiviana, and D. loayzana are described and illustrated. All three grow in Bolivia, and the first and last also occur in Peru and Argentina, respectively. The leaf and fruit trichomes of some of these and their nearest relatives are presented.
10.2307/3393513|Hippeophyllum microphyllum S. C. Chen, a new species of Orchidaceae from Papua New Guinea, is described and illustrated. It is distinct from the other Hippeophyllum by having very narrow leaves 1.5-2 mm wide, minute flowers less than 1 mm across, and irregularly serrate-margined petals.
20406181|Amaranthus hunzikeri N. Bayn (Amaranthaceae), a new Argentinian species of subgenus Albersia (Kunth) Grenier & Godron from the Andes Mountains at altitudes above 3200 m, is described and illustrated. It resembles A. cardenasianus Hunziker, A. squamulatus (Andersson) B. L. Robinson, and A. urceolatus Bentham, but it differs by the prostrate or decumbent habit, spatulate leaves, and staminate flowers with three to five sepals. A key to the species in Amaranthus L. sect. Pyxidium Moquin-Tandon is included.
10.2307/3391659|Sarcolaena isaloensis, from the Isalo region of Madagascar, is described as a new species in the endemic family Sarcolaenaceae. It is unique in the genus by virtue of its very narrow leaves that lack induplicate prefoliation traces, and the long pubescence of its involucre.
10.2307/3391728|A morphological study of Cirsium ochrocentrum supports separation of the phenotype with red corollas of the upper Gila River drainage from typical materials with purple or white corollas from surrounding regions. This taxon shows intergradation and overlap of character distributions with typical populations and is recognized as a subspecies. Cirsium ochrocentrum subsp. martinii differs from the typical variety by its red corolla color, short style tips and spines, and generally shorter decurrence.
20406110|Myrcia inconspicua L. Kollmann & Sobral, a new species from montane forests of the Brazilian state of Esprito Santo, is described and illustrated. The species is characterized by solitary, axillary flowers, an uncommon feature in the genus, and by its shrubby habit and dense red-brown indument of branches and leaves. It is tentatively related to Myrcia anomala Cambessdes, a subshrub from southern and central Brazil that occasionally bears solitary flowers. /// Myrcia inconspicua L. Kollmann & Sobral, uma nova espcie das florestas montanas do estado do Esprito Santo, Brasil,  descrita e ilustrada. A espcie se caracteriza pelo hbito arbustivo, pelo denso indumento rufescente dos ramos e folhas e pelas flores solitrias e axilares, uma caracterstica incomum no gnero. Myrcia inconspicua  tentativamente relacionada com Myrcia anomala Cambessdes, subarbusto do centro e sul do Brasil que ocasionalmente apresenta flores solitrias.
10.2307/3393577|Studies of the floral morphology of the Mexican endemics Scirpus analecta Beetle and Scirpus coahuilensis Svenson, including embryo morphology and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) studies of the achenes, achene pericarp, and perianth bristles, indicate that like Scirpus L., they are members of the tribe Scirpeae Kunth ex Dumortier. However, they were found to possess a Carex-type embryo that is characteristic of Trichophorum Persoon. Because of differences in habitat, leaf blade development and morphology, inflorescence morphology, and the possession of rudimentary perianth bristles, they are shown to be better circumscribed in a genus of their own, Cypringlea M. T. Strong. Cypringlea is described, and the combinations C. analecta (Beetle) M. T. Strong and C. coahuilensis (Svenson) M. T. Strong are validated. Drawings of the embryos, SEM images of the achenes, achene pericarp, and perianth bristles, and photographic images of herbarium type specimens of the plants are provided, and the relationships of Cypringlea to Scirpus and Trichophorum are discussed.
10.2307/3391724|All 59 binomials previously assigned to Arabidopsis are critically evaluated and placed in 14 genera, of which Crucihimalaya, Olimarabidopsis, and Pseudoarabidopsis are described as new. Nine new combinations in Crucihimalaya, three in Olimarabidopsis, and one in Pseudoarabidopsis, as well as 12 new synonyms, are proposed. A key to all genera most commonly confused with Arabidopsis, including the three new proposed herein, is presented.
23018486|A new species of Solanum sect. Geminata (G. Don) Walp. (Solanaceae) from Costa Rica and Panama, S. sotobosquense Bohs, is described here from Limn, Costa Rica. It is morphologically most similar to S. rovirosanum Donn. Sm., but differs in its short, usually forked inflorescences and long fruiting pedicels. It has been named in honor of one of its collectors, D. Armando Soto, and in reference to its understory habitat. A new combination, Cuatresia cuneata (Standl.) Bohs, is also published here. Although based on the name Lycianthes cuneata Standl., this species has most commonly been considered to belong to the genus Witheringia L'Hr. Morphological and molecular data show that this species is a member of the genus Cuatresia Hunz., not Witheringia.
10.2307/3391817|Two new combinations, Sopubia matsumurae (T. Yamazaki) C. Y Wu and Xizangia bartsioides (Handel-Mazzetti) C. Y. Wu & D. D. Tao, are proposed. Sopubia lasiocarpa P. C. Tsoong is reduced to synonymy of S. matsumurae, and Xizangia serrata D. Y. Hong is reduced to synonymy of Xizangia bartsioides.
3393415| Se describe la morfologa, palinologa y la distribucin geogrfica actualmente conocida de dos especies nuevas de Gomphrena, ambas endmicas de los valles secos de Bolivia. Gomphrena fuscipellita es una especie perenne que se diferencia de otras especies de Gomphrena por tener tallos decumbentes y divididos dicotmicamente, por estar densamente cubiertos por pelos fuscoamarillos y por presentar inflorescencias compuestas de 5-6 captulos y hojas involucrales grandes. Gomphrena mizqueensis tiene hbito anual y es morfolgicamente afn a G. pallida, G. phaeotricha y G. ferruginea. Esta nueva especie difiere de las tres ltimas por presentar tallos erectos y ramificados, tpalos con margen dentado en el pice, brcteas cimbiformes y dentadas en el pice, y hojas con un par de nervios laterales evidentes. /// Morphology, pollen characters, and geographical distribution as currently known are described for two new species of Gomphrena, both endemic to dry valleys of Bolivia. Gomphrena fuscipellita is a perennial, differing from all other species of Gomphrena by its decumbent habit, generally dichotomously branching stems, dense yellowish brown indumentum, and compound inflorescences with large involucral bracts. Gomphrena mizqueensis is an annual, morphologically allied to G. pallida, G. phaeotricha, and G. ferruginea. From the three it differs by its erect habit branching in its upper parts, tepals with dentate apex, cymbiform, apically dentate bracts, and ovate leaves with one conspicuous pair of lateral veins. 
10.2307/3392244|Tournefortia restrepoae J. S. Miller, sp. nov., is described from the Reserva Natural La Planada in Nario, Colombia. The species is distinct in its evidently and evenly pustulate leaf surface with depressed tertiary venation and elevated areoles, and in its widely separated petiolate flowers. It is currently known only from the type locality.
10.2307/3391399|Observations of recent fruiting collections of Simira myriantha (Standley) Steyermark, a tree found in wet mid-elevation forests from southern Costa Rica to Peru, support the following transfer of this species to Elaeagia.
3393433| Bulbophyllum filifolium, a new orchid species from Brazil belonging to section Xiphizusa, is described and illustrated. The new species is rare and endemic to the municipality of Gro Mogol, Minas Gerais state, growing on rocks in campo rupestre vegetation. Bulbophyllum filifolium is easily recognized by its thread-like leaves, one-flowered inflorescences, and ovate petals with long club-like appendages on the margin. 
10.2307/3391944|Four new species of Loranthaceae and three new species of Viscaceae are described, namely Agelanthus bipartitus Balle ex Polhill & Wiens, A. pilosus Polhill & Wiens, Englerina cordata Polhill & Wiens, and Oedina congdoniana Polhill & Wiens in Loranthaceae, and Viscum congdonii Polhill & Wiens, V. cylindricum Polhill & Wiens, and V. loranthicola Polhill & Wiens in Viscaceae. This paper is a precursor to an account in the "Forest Flora of Malawi."
40300914|Parkia nana D. A. Neill (Leguminosae, Mimosoideae) from sandstone areas near the Rio Maran area in northeastern Peru is described and illustrated. Photographic evidence also indicates presence of this species on sandstone substrate in the Cordillera Azul in east-central Peru. Compared to other species of Parkia R. Brown, which commonly attain 30-40 m in height, P. nana has a dwarf growth form, found as a pachycaul treelet attaining reproductive maturity at 3-4 m in height. The new species is placed in the pantropical section Parkia R. Brown and is similar to P. nitida Miquel and P. balslevii H. C. Hopkins, with which it shares the opposite to subopposite leaves, the biglobose capitula, and indehiscent strap-shaped pods, but differs from both in its short stature, erect compound inflorescence, and erect, velutinous fruits. /// Se describe y se ilustra Parkia nana D. A. Neill (Leguminosae, Mimosoideae) procedente de mesetas de arenisca cerca al Ro Maran en el nororiente del Per. Evidencia fotogrfica adems indica la presencia de esta especie en substrato de arenisca en la Cordillera Azul en el centro-oriente del Per. A diferencia con otras especies de Parkia R. Brown, que frecuentemente alcanzan 30-40 m de alto, P. nana tiene una forma de crecimiento enana, es un arbolito poco ramificado que llega a la madurez reproductiva a la estatura de 3-4 m. La especie nueva se ubica en la seccin Parkia R. Brown, que tiene una distribucin pantropical, y es similar a P. nitida Miquel y P. balslevii H. C. Hopkins, especies con las cuales comparte las hojas opuestas a subopuestas, las cabezuelas biglobosas, y las vainas indehiscentes y planas, pero con las cuales difiere en su estatura baja, su inflorescencia compuesta erecta, y sus frutos erectos y vellosos.
3393448|Lemyrea marojejyensis J. R. Stone & A. P. Davis, a new species from the Marojejy National Park in Madagascar, is described and illustrated. The thick branchlets, large leaves, shortly pedicellate flowers, and large number of ovules (ca. 32 per locule) distinguish it from other species of Lemyrea. Systematic observations on the genus Lemyrea are provided.
20406294|A new species of Orinus Hitchcock, O. alticulmus L. B. Cai & Tong Lin Zhang, is described and illustrated. This species is endemic to Qinghai province, China, occurring at altitudes of 2450-2600 m on sandy soils. It resembles O. kokonorica (K. S. Hao) Tzvelev, but differs from that species by its slightly effuse panicles, longer spikelets usually with five or six florets, purple-yellow anthers, shorter caryopses, and the paleas usually longer than the lemmas. A key to the five species of the genus is provided.
23259415|A new species assigned to Erythroxylum sect. Rhabdophyllum O. E. Schulz is described and illustrated under the name of E. ayrtonianum Loiola & M. F. Sales. This new species resembles E. pelleterianum A. St.-Hil. in the general aspect of its leaves and the flexuous, slender branches, but differs by its distichous cataphylls distributed along the short branches and the leaves with wavy to strongly wavy margins. Erythroxylum ayrtonianum is reported from savanna formations (cerrado vegetation) in the north-central portion of Brazil, with the type locality from the state of Tocantins.
23018446|The name Senecio L. ser. Chilenses DC. ex M. G. Lpez, A. F. Wulff & Xifreda is here validated to replace Senecio ser. Suffruticosi Cabrera, non Senecio sect. Suffruticosi Greenm. Although the epithet Suffruticosi was published at different infrageneric ranks within Senecio (Asteraceae, Senecioneae) for two different taxa from South and North America, respectively, the two epithets are considered homonyms. Series Chilenses was previously published by de Candolle, but without a description. El nombre Senecio L. ser. Chilenses DC. ex M. G. Lpez, A. F. Wulff & Xifreda se valida aqu para reemplazar a Senecio ser. Suffruticosi Cabrera, non Senecio sect. Suffruticosi Greenm. A pesar de que el epteto Suffruticosi fue publicado para definir rangos subgenricos diferentes dentro Senecio (Asteraceae, Senecioneae) para dos taxa diferentes de Amrica del Sur y del Norte, respectivamente, ambos eptetos son considerados homnimos. Series Chilenses fue publicado previamente por de Candolle pero sin una descripcin.
10.2307/3393115|The new combination Packera lyallii (Klatt) J. F. Bain is proposed, based on Senecio lyallii Klatt.
23018502|Two species from China, Berchemia omeiensis W. P. Fang ex Y. L. Chen & P. K. Chou and Rhamnus kwangsiensis Y. L. Chen & P. K. Chou (Rhamnaceae), were published invalidly in 1979 because in each instance two types were simultaneously indicated. Both plant names are validly published here.
10.2307/3391683|Myrsine perpauciflora Pipoly is validated by the designation of a holotype.
10.2307/3391743|Alloplectus martinianus, a new species of Gesneriaceae from Ecuador, is described. The species is distinctive for its long narrow leaves, densely villous short corollas, and unusual reticulations on the adaxial epidermis of the leaf.
20406125|Two new names in Pilea Lindley from China are published: Pilea panzhihuaensis C. J. Chen, A. K. Monro & L. Chen and P. spicata C. J. Chen & A. K. Monro. A lectotype is designated for the basionym of P. spicata, Smithiella myriantha Dunn. The origins of the new names are explained, synonymy of the resurrected name is given, and an illustration of P. panzhihuaensis is provided.
10.2307/3393092|Two new species, Spiradiclis loana R. J. Wang and S. chuniana R. J. Wang, from Guangxi, China, are newly described and illustrated. Spiradiclis loana is perhaps related to S. spathalata X. X. Chen & C. C. Huang by its oblanceolate, elliptic, or obovate and rosette-like leaves, but distinguished by its long petioles, fewer secondary veins, and white coronas. Spiradiclis chuniana is probably related to S. tomentosa D. Fang & D. H. Qin by its hairy leaves but distinguished by its truncate leaf bases, long internodes and bracts, short pedicels, and a ring of hair inside the middle of long-styled flowers.
20406061|Pedicularis yaoshanensis H. Wang from Yunnan, China, is described and illustrated. The new species was found growing on wet cliffs, at high elevations in the Yaoshan Mountain. It is placed in Pedicularis series Longiflorae Prain. The main diagnostic features of P. yaoshanensis include its acaulescent habit, pinnatipartite leaves, calyx with 3 lobes (the posterior one smaller and tripartite), the deflexed galea beak pointing downward, and the two posterior filaments of the stamens glabrous. A key to similar species is given, and its relationships discussed.
10.2307/3393207|A new species of ponytail palm, Beaucarnea sanctomariana (Nolinaceae), is described and illustrated. With this addition, the neotropical genus Beaucarnea now has 10 species. It occurs in tropical deciduous forests in the biodiversity hotspot area known as the Chimalapas in the Tehuantepec Isthmus, Oaxaca, Mexico. The new taxon is similar to Beaucarnea recurvata Lemaire and to Beaucarnea hiriartiae L. Hernndez, but differs from both in its smaller flowers and fruits (the smallest in the entire genus), and in the articulation of the pedicel in both staminate and pistillate flowers. In addition, B. sanctomariana differs from B. recurvata in the smaller trunk bases without buttresses, shorter leaves, and undulate bracts of the inflorescence, and from B. hiriartiae in having widely conical trunk bases, rugose bark, smooth leaf surface, larger inflorescence stalks, and shorter inflorescence branches. A discussion of field characters is presented. /// Se describe e ilustra una especie nueva de "palma petacona", Beaucarnea sanctomariana (Nolinaceae). Con esta adicin, el gnero Neotropical Beaucarnea comprende ahora 10 especies. Forma parte de los bosques tropicales caducifolios del area conocida como Las Chimalapas en el Istmo de Tehuantepec, Oaxaca, Mexico, de gran importancia por su biodiversidad. El taxon nuevo es similar a Beaucarnea recurvata Lemaire y a B. hiriartiae L. Hernndez, pero se diferencia de ellas por sus flores y frutos mucho ms pequeios (los ms pequeos del gnero) y en la articulacin medial del pedicelo. Adems, B. sanctomariana se diferencia de B. recurvata por las bases del tronco ms pequeas y sin contrafuertes, hojas ms cortas y brcteas de la inflorescencia onduladas. De B. hiriartiae se distingue por las bases de los troncos anchamente cnicas, superficie lisa de sus hojas, pednculos de la inflorescencia ms largos y ramas de la inflorescencia ms cortas. Se presenta una discusin sobre caracteres de campo.
40300891|Results from molecular phylogenetic analyses indicate that three varieties of Mentzelia multicaulis (Osterhout) J. Darlington (Loasaceae) are more closely related to other species of Mentzelia sect. Bartonia Torrey & A. Gray than to M. multicaulis var. multicaulis. We elevate three varieties of M. multicaulis, originally described from Utah, to specific rank, recognizing them as M. librina (K. H. Thome & F. J. Smith) J. J. Schenk & L. Hufford, M. flumensevera (N. H. Holmgren & P. K. Holmgren) J. J. Schenk & L Hufford, and M. uintahensis (N. H. Holmgren & P. K. Holmgren) J. J. Schenk & L. Hufford. Both stamen and leaf shape characters support evolutionary relationships of these species with their closest relatives among the mentzelias found in the Intermountain West of the United States.
3393318|A new species of Pariana from the Atlantic forest of the Brazilian state of Bahia is described. Pariana carvalhoi is an herbaceous bamboo (Poaceae: Bambusoideae: Olyreae) that resembles P. lanceolata but differs from it by the very short to absent fimbriae at the leaf sheath apex. Both species are endemic to Bahia, Brazil. The new species is only known from the locality of Una, in southern Bahia. It grows in remnants of humid forest and should be considered as critically endangered.
20406048|Spermacoce heteromorpha Dessein (Rubiaceae, Spermacoceae) is newly described and illustrated. It grows on the Marungu highlands of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (D. R. Congo) at altitudes of 1800 to 1900 m. The species resembles the Tanzanian Spermacoce taylorii Verdcourt, from which it mainly differs in having terminal inflorescences, only slightly exserted anthers, and densely pubescent stems. Moreover, Spermacoce heteromorpha features marked heterophylly, with long leaves at the plant's base and much shorter cauline leaves, a type of heterophylly rarely observed in Spermacoce or in the Rubiaceae as a whole. The finding of this species exemplifies the unique floristic richness of this underexplored part of D.R. Congo.
10.2307/3392969|Typhonium jinpingense Z. L. Wang, H. Li & F. H. Bian (Araceae) from Yunnan, China, is described as a new species in Araceae. The karyotype of metaphase chromosomes in somatic cells is: 2n = 10 = 2m+2st+6sm. This is the lowest diploid number so far reported in this family.
10.2307/3391796|Gnetum hainanense, previously invalidly described, is validated.
10.2307/3393385|In the course of our investigation of the genus Aspidistra (Convallariaceae), a new species was discovered in the Guangxi Zhuangzu Autonomous Region of southern China. It is described below as A. guangxiensis S. C. Tang & Y. Liu, and an illustration is provided.
10.2307/3392243|Four individuals of a new species of Hibiscadelphus (Malvaceae: Hibisceae) have been discovered on Kaua'i, the oldest of the major Hawaiian Islands. Hibiscadelphus woodii is described and illustrated, and its status and basal relationship within the genus are discussed. The imperiled status of the other six species is reviewed, and a key to the genus is given.
10.2307/3391581|Ten new species of Rubiaceae from southern Mexico and Mesoamerica are described and illustrated: Bouvardia macdougallii Lorence, Hoffmannia ixtlanensis Lorence, H. minuticarpa Dwyer & Lorence, Machaonia martinezorum Lorence, Psychotria breedlovei Lorence, P. thornei Lorence, Rondeletia breedlovei Lorence, R. chiriquiana Lorence, R. megalantha Lorence, and Sommera parva Lorence.
10.2307/3391537|Cinnamomum kruseanum (Lauraceae), collected in the state of Guerrero, Mexico, is described as a new species. The species is illustrated, and its relationships are discussed. /// Cinnamomum kruseanum (Lauraceae), colectada en el estado de Guerrero, Mxico, es descrita como una nueva especie. Esta nueva especie es ilustrada, y se discuten sus relaciones con otras especies de Cinnamomum.
10.2307/3391608|Se describe y se ilustra Ayenia mastatalensis de Costa Rica. La anatoma de los nectarios se estudia y se compara con la de las otras especies del gnero con estas glndulas. Se discuten las relaciones taxonmicas entre las especies de Ayenia con nectarios. /// Ayenia mastatalensis from Costa Rica is described and illustrated. The anatomy of its foliar nectaries is studied and compared with that of the other species in the genus with these glands. The taxonomic relationships between the species of Ayenia with nectaries are discussed.
10.2307/3391662|The new name Psychotria cardiomorpha C. M. Taylor & A. Pool replaces P. cordifolia HBK; the new combinations Psychotria cardiomorpha subsp. perpusilla (Steyermark) C. M. Taylor & A. Pool, P. campyloneuroides (Standley) C. M. Taylor, P. conephoroides (Rusby) C. M. Taylor, P. gentryi (Dwyer) C. M. Taylor, P. jervisei (Standley) C. M. Taylor, P. ostreophora (Wernham) C. M. Taylor, P. cuatrecasasii (Standley ex Steyermark) C. M. Taylor, and P. timbiquensis (Standley) C. M. Taylor apply to species formerly treated in Cephalis; the new name P. cordobensis C. M. Taylor applies to C. crassifolia Standley; and additional synonymy is suggested.
10.2307/3393181|During the preparation of a checklist of endemic taxa of Caryophyllaceae on the Indian subcontinent, the need for a nomenclatural correction of the following taxon became evident. Based on types, protologues, and herbarium (CAL, DD) specimens, Silene stewartii (Edgeworth) Majumdar is morphologically distinct from Silene stewartii S. A. Ghazanfar. The nomenclature of Silene stewartii S. A. Ghazanfar is corrected by establishing the new name Silene subodhii S. R. Kundu.
40960824|Se propone como especie nueva a Scutellaria sipilensis Cuevas (Lamiaceae), del estado de Jalisco, Mxico, la cual encuentra acomodo en la seccin Cardinales Epling o en el grupo de especies "speciosa" de Paton. Est relacionada con S. longifolia Benth., S. glabra Leonard, S. saslayensis A. Pool y S. rosei Fernald, de las cuales se diferencia por sus hojas anchamente ovadas, sus tricomas de mayor tamao, sus brcteas persistentes y en general las estructuras florales ms pequeas. Scutellaria sipilensis Cuevas (Lamiaceae) is proposed as a new species from Jalisco, Mexico, which is accommodated within section Cardinales Epling or in the species group "speciosa" as defined by Paton. The species is related to S. longifolia Benth., S. glabra Leonard, S. saslayensis A. Pool, and S. rosei Fernald, from which it differs by its widely ovate leaves, trichomes of greater size, persistent bracts, and in general by its much smaller floral structures.
40300949|Taxonomic and palynological studies on Arisaema Martius (Araceae) from the Western Ghats, India, distinguish two taxa belonging to section Tortuosa Engler. Arisaema sahyadricum S. R. Yadav, K. S. Patil & Bachulkar var. ghaticum Sardesai, S. P. Gaikwad & S. R. Yadav, a recently described variety in 2006, is treated here at the species level as A. ghaticum Punekar & Kumaran. Arisaema sivadasanii S. R. Yadav, K. S. Patil & Janarthanam, previously considered as a synonym of A. tortuosum (Wallich) Schott, is recognized here as the subspecies A. tortuosum subsp. sivadasanii (S. R. Yadav, K. S. Patil & Janarthanam) Punekar & Kumaran. Taxonomic implications are discussed and a key to the Arisaema taxa of the North Western Ghats is provided.
10.2307/3391451|Maharanga squamulifera Riedl is described from northern Thailand, a remarkable extension of the range of the genus. Its most important characters are the presence of linear scales at the base of the corolla, the smooth and glabrous tips of the anthers, the scarcely distinct differences in the attachment of the filaments, and the distinctly glabrous nutlets.
10.2307/3393574| While preparing the treatment of Myrsinaceae for the Flora Mesoamericana a new species of Parathesis was discovered from Olancho, Honduras. Parathesis pipolyana is described and illustrated, and its phylogenetic relationships are discussed. /// Al preparar un tratamiento taxonmico de la familia Myrsinaceae para Flora Mesoamericana, se descubri una nueva especie perteneciente al gnero Parathesis proveniente de Olancho, Honduras. Se describe e ilustra Parathesis pipolyana, y se discute su parentezco. 
10.2307/3391704|The name Myosurus aristatus Bentham is illegitimate, and the North American material often treated as M. aristatus is conspecific with M. apetalus Gay of Chile. The name Myosurus apetalus var. borealis Whittemore is described for the North American taxon previously treated as M. aristatus subsp. aristatus, and the new combination M. apetalus var. montanus (G. R. Campbell) Whittemore is made for the taxon previously treated as M. aristatus subsp. montanus (G. R. Campbell) D. E. Stone.
10.2307/3393368|Transberingia Al-Shehbaz & O'Kane (Brassicaceae) replaces Beringia R. A. Price, Al-Shehbaz & O'Kane, a later homonym to a genus of the red algae. The new combinations T. bursifolia and T. bursifolia subsp. virgata are made for the sole species of this genus.
10.2307/3391586|Two new infrageneric taxa of Corispermum L. (Chenopodiaceae) are described: sections Patellisperma and Declinata. Geographical distributions and taxonomic comments are provided.
10.2307/3391498|Two new species from Mexico are described, Simsia sylvicola from Oaxaca and S. spooneri from Guerrero. The two species are placed in Simsia because they exhibit most of the features that characterize the genus, although they differ in possessing a biconvex achene shape that is more typical of the related genus Viguiera. Chromosome counts of n = 17 are reported for both species.
3393546| Nomenclatural notes, lectotypifications, a neotypification, and changes in synonymy affecting Passiflora (Passifloraceae) in Mesoamerica are presented, as well as descriptions of new varieties and species. Included are six new taxa: P. cissampeloides, P. ornithoura var. chiapasensis, P. quetzal, P. quinquangularis, P. subfertilis, and P. veraguasensis. Two taxa change rank: P. sublanceolata is elevated from P. palmeri var. sublanceolata Killip and P. jorullensis var. salvadorensis is lowered from P. salvadorensis J. D. Smith. The new combination P. platyloba var. pubescens (Grisebach) J. MacDougal must be substituted for P. platyloba var. williamsii (Killip) A. Gentry, and P. serrulata var. pubescens Grisebach is a synonym of P. williamsii Killip, not P. vitifolia HBK. The well-known name P. pulchella HBK is a new synonym of P. bicornis Miller; P. brevipes Killip is a new synonym of P. cobanensis Killip; P. guatemalensis S. Watson is not a synonym of P. hahnii (Fournier) Masters; P. cookii Killip is a new synonym of P. hahnii; and P. obscura Lindley is a new synonym of P. sexflora Jussieu. Lectotypes are designated for P. divaricata Grisebach (Duchassaing s.n., anno 1850, GOET), P. serrulata . pubescens Grisebach (Duchassaing, s.n. [1850-1851], GOET). The colored plate opposite page 430 in Revue Horticole 40 (1869) is designated as the neotype of P. hahnii. 
10.2307/3391757|A review of the Mesoamerican species of Aciotis is presented to facilitate the transfer of Spennera alata, an earlier name for the largely Central American species heretofore known as A. levyana. Original chromosome counts of n = 30 are reported for two species, A. alata and A. rostellata, together with brief descriptions, distributional notes, and a regional key to the three Mesoamerican species. Based on a preliminary evaluation of reported chromosome counts, x = 10 appears to be the probable base chromosome number of Aciotis.
10.2307/3392260|A new species of the genus Aureliana from the coastal vegetation and secondary forest of Paraty Municipality is described. It is distinguished from other species in this genus by the long-acuminate calyx lobes and sparse pubescence.
10.2307/3391549|Several new names are proposed for a taxonomic revision of the dwarf mistletoes (Arceuthobium). Two new species from northwestern California and southwestern Oregon are described: A. siskiyouense, a parasite of knobcone pine, and A. monticola, a parasite of western white pine. Also described as new is A. littorum, a parasite of Monterey and bishop pines in coastal California. Arceuthobium tsugense is segregated into two subspecies: subspecies tsugense, primarily parasitic on western hemlock, and subspecies mertensianae, primarily parasitic on mountain hemlock.
10.2307/3391991|Chaptalia hermogenis (sect. Archichaptalia), currently known only from a montane forest in the Atlantic Rain Forest region of southeastern Brazil, is described and illustrated. The new species is compared with the closely similar C. cordifolia (Baker) Cabrera. It is distinguished by a long involucre, the long expanded limb with an inner linear lip of the female florets, the absence of tubular-filiform internal female florets, a character rare in the genus, and a sparsely pubescent achene.
20406108|Bulbophyllum dulongjiangense X. H. Jin, a new species from Yunnan, China, is described and illustrated. The new species is related to B. gyrochilum Seidenfaden but differs from it by having larger flowers, longer lateral sepals to 2.3 cm with the dorsal sepal to 1.4 cm, falcate column stelids to 1.5 mm, and lip with two dorsal ridges.
20406300|A new pteridophyte species, Polystichum manickamianum Benniamin, Fraser-Jenkins & Irudayaraj, is described and illustrated from the Agasthiar Hills, South Western Ghats, South India. It is a member of Polystichum Roth sect. Macropolystichum Daigobo (Dryopteridaceae) and is distinguished from its nearest relatives by its relatively short, wide fronds with large, ovate-rhombic, crenate, dark green pinnules with submarginal sori, sparsely hairy upper stipe, rachis, and costae, and by the absence of subapical proliferous bulbils on the rachis. It is endemic to Tamil Nadu, South India, and is considered to be Critically Endangered (CR) based on IUCN Red List criteria. A key is provided to South Indian Polystichum, and some problematic related names are discussed. A lectotype is designated for Aspidium tacticopterum Kunze. Polystichum kunthianum B. K. Nayar & Geevarghese is newly synonymized into P. subinerme (Kunze) Fraser-Jenkins.
20406291|Chamaegastrodia nanlingensis H. Z. Tian & F. W. Xing, a new species from Ruyuan county, in northern Guangdong, South China, is described and illustrated. It is similar to C. poilanei (Gagnepain) Seidenfaden & A. N. Rao, from which it differs in having smaller flowers, a yellow lip without a pair of elongate introrse lobules at the epichile lobe, a slightly erose margin, and much smaller dorsal sepals and petals.
40856320|A new species of Elaphoglossum Schott in section Elaphoglossum subsect. Pachyglossa Christ is described and illustrated here. Elaphoglossum skutchianum A. Rojas is recognized from Costa Rica and Panama, and occurs at middle elevations in the Cordillera de Tilarn, Cordillera Central, and Cordillera de Talamanca. It is distinguished from the closely related E. brevissimum Mickel by its longer fronds. It is here proposed that E. lankesteri Mickel is a synonym of E. csmense Rosenst. Una nueva especie de Elaphoglossum Schott de la seccin Elaphoglossum subsect.Pachyglossa Christ es descrita e ilustrada aqu. Elaphoglossum skutchianum A. Rojas es conocida para Costa Rica y Panam, y ocurre a elevaciones medias en la Cordillera de Tilarn, Cordillera Central y Cordillera de Talamanca. Esta es distinguible de la muy relacionada E. brevissimum Mickel por sus frondas ms largas. Se propone que E. lankesteri Mickel es un sinnimo de E. csmense Rosenst.
10.2307/3391942|Tournefortia delicatula J. S. Miller is newly described from cloud forest ridges in the Tumbes province of northwestern Peru. This distinctive species is known only from the type collection and differs from other species with which it might be confused in its delicate growth habit with slender twigs and inflorescence branches, and by its filiform calyx lobes, relatively large, funnelform corolla with a slender tube and large lobes, and very short style.
27765243|Gastrochilus brevifimbriatus S. R. Yi is described and illustrated as a new species of Gastrochilus D. Don (Orchidaceae, Aeridinae) from Jinfo Mountain, Chongqing Province, China. This new species is related to G. acinacifolius Z. H. Tsi, with both species characterized by the falcate, lanceolate leaves, the inflorescences opposite to the leaves, the yellow sepals and petals with purple spots, the similar petals and sepals, and the white lip. Gastrochilus brevifimbriatus differs by its longer stems (10-30 cm) and by the subflabellate epichile that is broader than the hypochile and has short fimbriae on the margins.
10.2307/3392022|Four new combinations in Malva, M. assurgentiflora, M. lindsayi, M. occidentalis, and M. wigandii, and five replacement names, M. australiana, M. canariensis, M. dendromorpha, M. linnaei, and M. pacifica, are proposed to accommodate species of Lavatera that are more closely related to the type species of Malva than they are to the type species of Lavatera. These species are in the "Malvoid group," discussed by Ray in an earlier paper. One other Lavatera species that should also be placed in Malva is discussed but not formally transferred. Some lectotypes and neotypes are designated.
10.2307/3393099|Five new Mesoamerican species are described in the orchid genera Chysis, Scaphyglottis, and Sobralia. Chysis addita Dressler (Chiapas) and C. orichalcea Dressler (El Salvador), described here, are allies of Chysis laevis Lindley with shorter and wider segments; C. addita has laminar keels and winglike extensions on the column foot; the predominantly yellow C. orichalcea has convex lateral lip margins. The new species Scaphyglottis bicallosa Dressler (Costa Rica) has smaller, more numerous flowers than S. amparoana (Schlechter) Dressler and a higher, bilobed callus. Also new, Scaphyglottis monspirrae Dressler (Panama) has narrower leaves than S. punctulata (Reichenbach f.) C. Schweinfurth and a three-lobed lip. Another novel species, Sobralia purpurea Dressler (Costa Rica), has lanceolate leaves 1-2.5 cm wide and an intensely purple, oblong lip. The synonymy of Chysis bruennowiana Reichenbach f. & Warscewicz and the identity of C. tricostata Schlechter are discussed. New combinations are published for Arpophyllum giganteum subsp. alpinum (Lindley) Dressler, A. giganteum subsp. medium (Reichenbach f.) Dressler, and Scaphyglottis pachybulbon (Schlechter) Dressler.
10.2307/3391745|A neotype is selected for Vitis javalensis Seemann, and V. javalensis is transferred to Ampelocissus. Ampelocissus costaricensis Lundell is reduced to synonymy under Ampelocissus javalensis (Seemann) W. D. Stevens & A. Pool, comb. nov. Changes in vegetation of the Javal gold and silver mines region (Santo Domingo/La Libertad) of Chontales, Nicaragua, the original published locality of V. javalensis, are discussed.
10.2307/3391725|The genus Sisymbriopsis is established, and a key, descriptions, and distributions of the five species are given. The new combinations S. pamirica, S. shuanghuica, and S. yechengnica are proposed.
10.2307/3391839|The true identity of Merostachys multiramea Hackel is discussed. As a result of a review of the group of the species similar to M. multiramea, the following are described as new: Merostachys abadiana, M. caucaiana, M. filgueirasii, M. kleinii, M. magellanica, M. pilifera, M. scandens, and M. skvortzovii. The description of floral morphology is added to M. glauca McClure & L. B. Smith, which was originally described from sterile material. A key to the species is provided. All the species are fully illustrated.
10.2307/3392219|Examination of type specimens and other collections of Cimicifuga acerina f. purpurea and forma strigulosa revealed that they are not separable from one another but are very distinct from C. acerina and other related species of the genus in many morphological characters, including sepal color, stamen number, anther structure, and presence of cauline leaves. Therefore, these two formae are combined and recognized here as a distinct species, C. purpurea.
10.2307/3392020|Saurauia homotricha, a new species from montane forests of western Honduras and Nicaragua, is described and illustrated. It is placed in the Central American series Gymnogynae Buscalioni and is most similar to Saurauia rubiformis Vatke, from which it differs most markedly in the type, length, and distribution of trichomes on the leaves and the abaxial surface of the sepals.
10.2307/3391473|Twelve new species of Pentacalia are described from Ecuador: P. carmelana, P. cazaletii, P. dodsonii, P. dorrii, P. hurtadoi, P. luteynorum, P. moronensis, P. napoensis, P. pailasensis, P. palaciosii, P. zakii, P. zamorana; nine new species are described from Peru: P. balsasana, P. cutervonis, P. davidsmithii, P. maynasensis, P. mucronatifolia, P. nunezii, P. sagasteguii, P. tillettii, and P. todziae; and two new species are described from Bolivia: P. inquisiviensis and P. lewisii. Gynoxys vargasiana Cabrera of Peru is transferred to Pentacalia. Keys are provided for the species of Pentacalia subg. Pentacalia in Ecuador and Peru.
10.2307/3391738|Seven new species of Pilea from Mesoamerica are described and illustrated: Pilea pteridophylla A. K. Monro, P. plumulosa A. K. Monro, P. tripartita A. K. Monro, P. rostulata A. K. Monro, P. quadrata A. K. Monro, P. tutensis A. K. Monro, and P. magnicarpa A. K. Monro. Their affinities are discussed and positions within Weddell's and Killip's subdivisions of the genus indicated.
3393361|Six new combinations in Pyrenaria (Theaceae) are made. These are: Pyrenaria spectabilis (Champion) C. Y. Wu & S. X. Yang, P. spectabilis var. greeniae (Chun) S. X. Yang, P. maculatoclada (Y. K. Li) S. X. Yang, P. wuiana (Hung T. Chang) S. X. Yang, P. jongquieriana Pierre ex Lanessan subsp. multisepala (Merrill & Chun) S. X. Yang, and P. diospyricarpa Kurz var. camelliiflora (Kurz) S. X. Yang. Pyrenaria burmanica T. K. Paul & Nayar newly synonymizes to Pyrenaria diospyricarpa var. diospyricarpa. Pyrenaria tibetana Hung T. Chang newly synonymizes to Pyrenaria khasiana R. N. Paul. Thea shinkoensis Hayata and Tutcheria tenuifolia Hung T. Chang newly synonymize to Pyrenaria microcarpa (Dunn) H. Keng var. microcarpa. Camellia buisanensis Sasaki, Tutcheria symplocifolia Merrill & F. P. Metcalf, and Tutcheria taiwanica Hung T. Chang & S. X. Ren newly synonymize to Pyrenaria microcarpa (Dunn) H. Keng var. ovalifolia (H. L. Li) T. L. Ming & S. X. Yang. Tutcheria brachycarpa Hung T. Chang newly synonymizes to Pyrenaria spectabilis (Champion) C. Y. Wu & S. X. Yang var. spectabilis. Tutcheria austrosinica Hung T. Chang, Tutcheria rostrata Hung T. Chang, and Pyrenaria turbinata S. X. Yang newly synonymize to Pyrenaria spectabilis (Champion) C. Y. Wu & S. X. Yang var. greeniae (Chun) S. X. Yang. In addition, Pyrenaria microcarpa (Dunn) H. Keng is lectotypified.
40856314|A new species, Plantago orzuiensis Mohsenz., Nazeri & Mirtadz. (Plantaginaceae), belonging to Plantago L. subg. Albicans Rahn, is described from Kerman Province in southeastern Iran. Its relationships to the closely related species P. ciliata Desf., P. amplexicaulis Cav., P. lagocephala Bunge, and P. psammophila Agnew & Chal.-Kabi are discussed. The most prominent features of the new species are the amplexicaul leaves; bracts that are to 6 mm long, boat-shaped, with a pilose midrib and ciliate margins; and hirsute corolla lobes to 2.5 mm long.
20406261|Se describe e ilustra un rbol conocido en Bolivia como "incienso", Clusia pachamamae Zenteno-Ruz & A. Fuentes (Clusiaceae), una especie nueva de los bosques montanos de Yungas del noroeste de Bolivia. Especie que se diferencia claramente de otras de la seccin Anandrogyne Planchon & Triana por tener inflorescencias en espiga, corto-pedunculadas con 6 a 16 flores. Se distingue de varias especies morfolgicamente afines, tambin con flores ssiles, de la siguiente manera: de C. tarmensis Engler por tener los frutos 5-, rara vez 6- (vs. siempre 6-)loculares y hojas con pecolo alado 1.5-2.6  0.6-1.8 cm (vs. 0.4-0.8  0.2-0.3 cm); de C. peruviana Szyszylowicz por las hojas obovadas a rara vez elpticas mayores a 9 cm de largo (vs. elpticas y menores a 9 cm) y la inflorescencia masculina con 6 a 16 (vs. 3 a 5) flores; de C. cajamarcensis Engler por tener flores con 5 (vs. 6) ptalos y el ovario 5-, rara vez 6- (vs. siempre 6-) locular. Esta especie exuda de su corteza y ramas una resina amarilla que es recolectada y comercializada por los pobladores locales del noroeste de Bolivia y usada tradicionalmente como incienso en rituales andinos y catlicos. /// A Clusia L. incense tree, Clusia pachamamae Zenteno-Ruz & A. Fuentes (Clusiaceae), is described and illustrated. This new species from the montane Yungas forests of northwestern Bolivia differs clearly from other species of section Anandrogyne Planchon & Triana in having spicate short-pedunculate inflorescences with six to 16 sessile and decussate flowers. The species differs from various others to which it is morphologically close (and which also have sessile flowers) in the following ways: from C. tarmensis Engler by having 5- or rarely 6- (vs. always 6-)locular fruits and leaves with winged petioles 1.5-2.6  0.6-1.8 cm (vs. 0.4-0.8  0.2-0.3 cm); from C. peruviana Szyszylowicz by having obovate to rarely elliptic leaves more than 9 cm long (vs. elliptic and less than 9 cm), and a male inflorescence with six to 16 (vs. three to five) flowers; from C. cajamarcensis Engler by having flowers with five (vs. six) petals and a 5- or rarely 6- (vs. always 6-)locular ovary. This species exudes from its bark and branches a yellow resin that is collected and marketed by local villagers northwest of Bolivia where it is used traditionally for incense in Andean and Catholic rituals.
10.2307/3393528| Se describe e ilustra Quercus nixoniana, una especie nueva de los estados de Jalisco, Guerrero y Oaxaca, en la Sierra Madre del Sur. Esta especie se incluye en la seccin Lobatae Loudon (encinos rojos) por presentar el pice de la lmina de la hoja aristado, endocarpo tomentoso y flores pistiladas con perianto libre formando un reborde. Se discute su parecido morfolgico con Q. salicifolia Ne y Q. crispifolia Trelease, con las que comparte la forma lanceolada de la hoja, el indumento en la misma y los frutos canescentes. Tambin se presenta una clave para separar a los tres taxa. /// Quercus nixoniana is described as a new species from the states of Jalisco, Guerrero, and Oaxaca at Sierra Madre del Sur, Mexico. It is included in Quercus sect. Lobatae Loudon (red oaks) because of the leaves with a terminal seta, the tomentose endocarp, and the base of the pistillate perianth free, forming a skirt or flange. It resembles Q. salicifolia Ne and Q. crispifolia Trelease in the lanceolate blade, indument, and canescent acorns. A key for distinguishing the three taxa is included. 
40960832|Polystemma mirandae Lozada-Prez (Apocynaceae, Asclepiadoideae) se describe e ilustra de Guerrero, Oaxaca y Puebla, Mxico. Esta nueva especie se caracteriza por el limbo y los lbulos de la corola densamente estrigulosos en la superficie adaxial y por los lbulos de la corona con dos apndices laterales y aciculares. Se discute su relacin con las especies del gnero. Polystemma mirandae Lozada-Prez (Apocynaceae, Asclepiadoideae) is described and illustrated from Guerrero, Oaxaca, and Puebla, Mexico. This new species is distinguished by the corolla limb and lobes densely strigillose on the adaxial surface and by the corona lobes with two lateral acicular appendages. Its relation with species of the genera is discussed.
23018447|Taxonomic study of the diversity of Musella lasiocarpa (Franch.) C. Y. Wu ex H. W. Li (Musaceae) in China has revealed an attractive new variety from Sichuan Province, southwestern China. Musella lasiocarpa var. rubribracteata Zhenghong Li & H. Ma differs from the autonymic variety by its orange-red to red bracts, the reddish to purple-red coloration of the abaxial surfaces of the petiole and leaf midrib, and a weaker ability of clone reproduction.
10.2307/3391982|A new species, Marcgravia punctifolia, is described and illustrated. It occurs in the tepui region of the Guiana Shield and is distinguished from all other taxa of the genus by the combination of abaxially punctate leaves, leaf shape, and apparently cauliflorous inflorescences.
20406315|A new monotypic genus of Loranthaceae, Pusillanthus Kuijt, is described and illustrated from Venezuela, based on Phthirusa trichodes Rizzini. It contrasts with other genera of small-flowered Neotropical Loranthaceae in combining an umbellate capitulum, tetramery, bisexual flowers with nearly sessile anthers, the absence of epicortical roots, and the presence of a conspicuous indument. The other genera have racemic or spike-like inflorescences (rarely solitary, axillary flowers). Species in the genus Struthanthus may represent the closest relatives, differing in their versatile anthers, 6-merous flowers, epicortical roots, and (except a single, unrelated Bolivian species) lack of indument; however, that genus is believed to be paraphyletic.
10.2307/3391669|Muhlenbergia cualensis from Jalisco, and M. michisensis from Durango, Mexico, are described and illustrated. A table distinguishing among the new species and related taxa is given.
10.2307/3391923|The new combinations Faramea papirifolia (Standley ex Steyermark) C. M. Taylor, Palicourea amplissima (Standley ex Steyermark) C. M. Taylor, Palicourea dimorphandrioides (Dwyer) C. M. Taylor, Palicourea grandistipula (Standley ex Steyermark) C. M. Taylor, Palicourea remyana (Baillon) C. M. Taylor, Psychotria diguana (Standley ex Steyermark) C. M. Taylor, Psychotria dives (Standley) C. M. Taylor, and Rudgea vallis (Standley ex Steyermark) C. M. Taylor are made; the new name Palicourea tunjansis C. M. Taylor is provided for Psychotria boyacana Standley; and Palicourea acanthacea Standley ex Steyermark ex C. M. Taylor is published based on "Cephalis acanthacea" an invalid name.
10.2307/3391517|Erythroxylum plowmanianum es una nueva especie de la regin alrededor de la cuenca del Ro Claro, Colombia, una zona conocida como rica en especies endmicas sobre rocas calcareas. La nueva especie se describe y se ilustra, y se discute su parentezco. /// Erythroxylum plowmanianum is a new species from the region of the basin of the Claro River, Colombia, an area known to be rich in endemic species that grow on calcareous rocks. The new species is described and illustrated, and its relationships are discussed.
20406076|Taxonomic review is provided for Callitriche taxa occurring in central and eastern Asia east of the Urals and in southeastern Asia north of Irian Jaya Barat. Three new species: Callitriche fuscicarpa, C. glareosa, and C. raveniana are described from Nepal, Bhutan, and Taiwan, China, respectively. Two new varieties are also described: Callitriche palustris L. var. megalata from Siberia in Russia and Callitriche palustris L. var. strumosa from western Sumatra in Indonesia. Callitriche nana is newly referred as a synonym of C. japonica Engelmann ex Hegelmaier. Callitriche oryzetorum Petrov is transferred and reduced in rank to a variety of C. palustris L. Callitriche wightiana Wallich in Wight is lectotypified.
10.2307/3391576|Two new taxa, Lysimachia tsaii and L. henryi var. guizhouensis, are described, and three new combinations, L. kwangtungensis (Handel-Mazzetti) C. M. Hu, Primula tardiflora (C. M. Hu) C. M. Hu, and P. melanantha (Franchet) C. M. Hu, are proposed.
10.2307/3392154|A new species of Roucheria and a new species of Hebepetalum (Hugoniaceae) from southern Venezuela are described and illustrated. Roucheria sipapoensis is a montane, small-leaved shrub known only from Cerro Sipapo in Amazonas state, while Hebepetalum neblinae is a lowland, wet forest tree from white sand areas in southernmost Venezuela and northern Brazil. Keys to the species of both genera are provided.
20406071|Se describe e ilustra Meliosma stellata Cornejo & Bonifaz, una nueva especie de Sabiaceae del bosque montano andino al suroccidente de Ecuador. Esta es parecida a M. violacea Cuatrecasas & Idrobo de Colombia, pero difiere por tener frutos ms pequeos ca. 1.5 cm (vs. 2.6 cm) de largo, sin la caracterstica tinta violeta, y principalmente por poseer unos muy distintivos tricomas esclerticos estrellados de 4 brazos. Estos ltimos son un importante caracter que previamente no estaba documentado para las especies de este gnero. /// Meliosma stellata Cornejo & Bonifaz, a new species of Sabiaceae from the Andean montane forests of southwestern Ecuador, is described and illustrated. The new species resembles the Colombian species M. violacea Cuatrecasas & Idrobo but differs by having smaller fruits, ca. 1.5 cm (vs. 2.6 cm) long, without its characteristic purple sap, and mainly by having highly distinctive sclerotic 4-branched stellate trichomes. This last feature is a significant character previously not recorded for species within this genus.
10.2307/3392190|Pouteria bulliformis, a new species of tropical rainforest of Costa Rica and Colombia, is described and illustrated.
3393319|Two new species (C. buchenavioides, C. estoraquensis) and one new subspecies (C. lozanoi subsp. tomentosa) of Calyptranthes (Myrtaceae) from Colombia are described and illustrated. The taxonomic affinities and the distribution of the new taxa are discussed.
3393315| Se describe una nueva especie del gnero Eleocharis (Cyperaceae) para el Per. Se presenta un cuadro comparativo con dos especies afines: E. dombeyana Kunth y E. montevidensis Kunth. /// A new species of the genus Eleocharis (Cyperaceae) is described for the Peruvian flora. A table of comparative characteristics with two related species is presented: E. dombeyana Kunth and E. montevidensis Kunth. 
10.2307/3391998|Croton yecorensis, a new species in the section Medea, is described and illustrated. This species appears taxonomically isolated, and its exact affinities are not obvious. It is endemic to a narrow zone in the Sierra Madre Occidental of extreme east-central Sonora between the vicinities of Ycora and Mulatos. /// Croton yecorensis, una nueva especie en la seccin Medea, es descrita e ilustrada. Esta especie parece ser taxonmicamente aislada y su afinidad no es obvia. Aparentemente es endmica en una zona del borde de la Sierra Madre Occidental, en el extremo Este-Centro de Sonora entre las vecindades de Ycora y Mulatos.
10.2307/3393066|The new species Elaeagia chiriquina of western Panama and E. glossostipula of western Panama and adjacent eastern Costa Rica, described and illustrated here, have been confused with several species of Elaeagia, but can be distinguished by details of the stipules, calyx, and corolla. Elaeagia uxpanapensis Lorence of Oaxaca, Mexico, is here transferred to Warszewiczia based on details of its flower and fruit morphology. This species is also represented by populations disjunct in Costa Rica and northwestern Colombia; these southern populations differ in their larger fruits, and are here separated as W. uxpanapensis subsp. meridionalis. /// Las especies nuevas Elaeagia chiriquina del oeste de Panam y E. glossostipula del oeste de Panam y el este adyacente de Costa Rica, que se describen e ilustran aqu, se han confundido con varias especies de Elaeagia, pero se distinguen por detalles de las estpulas, cliz y corola. Elaeagia uxpanapensis Lorence de Oaxaca, Mxico, aqu se transfiere a Warszewiczia basado en detalles de la morfologa de las flores y los frutos. Esta especie se encuentra en poblaciones disjuntas en Costa Rica y el noroeste de Colombia; estas poblaciones sureas se distinguen por los frutos ms grandes, y aqu se separan en W. uxpanapensis subsp. meridionalis.
10.2307/3391930|Two morphologically and ecologically distinctive, woody Hybanthus species from Central America are described, illustrated, and mapped. Hybanthus denticulatus inhabits lowland rainforest from northern Nicaragua to eastern Panama and is allied to Mexican and Guatemalan H. elatus. Hybanthus hespericlivus is restricted to mid-elevation forest on the western mountain slopes of northern Costa Rica and resembles Panamanian H. jefensis and northern Mesoamerican H. sylvicola. A key to Central American species of Hybanthus is provided.
20406028|A new species of Phaseolus occurs on the eastern slope of Sierra Madre Oriental of Mexico, in the state of Nuevo Len, at the northeastern corner of the Chihuahuan desert. Because of its coriaceous leaflets, Phaseolus novoleonensis belongs to section Coriacei Freytag. Although morphologically related to P. maculatus subsp. maculatus and subsp. ritensis, it differs by its having trifoliolate leaves at first nodes, small rounded leaflets, few-noded racemes, and flattened cream-colored seeds. /// Una nueva especie de Phaseolus ha sido encontrada en la vertiente oriental de la Sierra Madre Oriental de Mxico, en el estado de Nuevo Len. Los foliolos coriceos indican que pertenece a la seccin Coriacei Freytag. Aunque esta especie es cercana a las subespecies de P. maculatus, i.e. subsp. maculatus y subsp. ritensis, se diferencia por tener hojas trifolioladas en los primeros nudos, foliolos pequeos y redondos, racimos con pocas inserciones y semillas aplanadas de color crema. Su rango de distribucin parece limitado a la parte nororiental de la Zona rida Chihuahuense de Mxico.
20406246|As part of the first author's Ph.D. studies, two new species of Faramea Aublet, F. atlantica J. G. Jardim & Zappi and F. bicolor J. G. Jardim & Zappi, are described from the Atlantic Forest of eastern Brazil. Both species are illustrated, and comments on their phenology, distribution, and conservation status are provided. /// Formando parte dos estudos de Doutorado do primeiro autor, duas novas espcies de Faramea Aublet, F. atlantica J. G. Jardim & Zappi e F. bicolor J. G. Jardim & Zappi, so descritas para a Mata Atlntica do leste do Brasil. Ambas so ilustradas, juntamente com comentrios relativos  sua fenologia, distribuio e estado de conservao.
3393473|Eleven species and one genus from Mesoamerica are described as new and four new combinations are provided for taxa previously included in Cynanchum (Apocynaceae, Asclepiadoideae) from Mesoamerica. Liedea is newly described to accommodate L. filisepala. Cynanchum surrubriflorum, Metastelma brachymischum, M. thalamosiphon, M. thysanotum, M. triodontum, M. yucatanense, Orthosia cynanchoides, O. extra-axillaris, O. ramosa, O. smaragdina, and O. stipitata are described. Combinations are provided for Orthosia glaberrima, O. misera, and O. rubens.
27765216|A new species of Epimedium L. (Berberidaceae), E. shennongjiaensis Yan J. Zhang & J. Q. Li, is described and illustrated from the Shennongjia National Nature Reserve, Hubei Province, China. The new species is distinctive and assigned to series Davidianae Stearn of section Diphyllon (Komarov) Stearn because of its large flowers and petals with expanded lamina and elongated spurs. Based on corolla characteristics, it is similar to E. epsteinii Stearn but is distinguished by its compact rhizomes, narrowly ovate and acuminate inner sepals (1.51.9  0.70.9 cm), and petals slightly shorter or nearly as long as the inner sepals with straight spurs (1.5 1.7 cm).
10.2307/3391936|A new species of Jungia, J. beckii, from the Andes of northwestern Bolivia is described and illustrated, and its affinities are briefly discussed.
23018466|Asarum longirhizomatosum, originally described from Guanxi Province in China by C. F. Liang and C. S. Yang in 1975, was invalidly published in the original publication, because two collections were cited as type. The name is validated here by designating the collection Chao-Liang Zhang 002 (IBK 00190377) as the holotype.
10.2307/3391572|Two new species, Pleurothallis phoenicoptera and P. steinbuchiae, are described. Pleurothallis delascioi is synonymized under P. kerrii. Several other members of the Pleurothallidinae are recorded for the first time for Venezuela.
27765235|The new name, subseries Alcabrerae M. G. Lpez, A. F. Wulff & Xifreda for Senecio L. ser. Corymbosi (Cabrera) Cabrera, is here proposed to replace Senecio subsect. Amplectentes Cabrera. Although the name Amplectentes was published at different subgeneric ranks within the genus Senecio (Asteraceae, Senecioneae), the use of the same epithet is considered homonymy according to the International Code of Botanical Nomenclature, Article 53.4 and Article 21, Note 1. Additionally, S. saucensis Cabrera, one of the five species belonging to Senecio subser. Alcabrerae, is synonymized with S. toroanus Cabrera, formerly assigned to Senecio ser. Hualtatini DC, and S. toroanus is transferred to subseries Alcabrerae. The micromorphology of the cypselae for both species is provided, in support of the synonymy. El nuevo nombre para la subseries Alcabrerae M. G. Lpez, A. F. Wulff & Xifreda de Senecio L. ser. Corymbosi (Cabrera) Cabrera se propone aqu en reemplazo de Senecio subsect. Amplectentes Cabrera. A pesar de que el mismo nombre Amplectentes fue publicado en rangos subgenricos diferentes dentro del gnero Senecio (Asteraceae, Senecioneae), el uso del mismo epteto es considerado homonimia segn el Cdigo Internacional de Nomenklatura Botnica, Artculo 53.4 y Artculo 21, Nota 1. Adems, S. saucensis Cabrera, una de las cinco especies pertenecientes a Senecio subser. Alcabrerae se sinonimiza aqu con S. toroanus Cabrera, originalmente tratada bajo Senecio ser. Hualtatini DC, y S. toroanus es aqu transferida a subser. Alcabrerae. Se aporta la micromorfologa de las cipselas de ambas especies, reforzando la sinonimizacin.
10.2307/3392036|As a result of examination of the Missouri Botanical Garden Dilleniaceae collection, a new species of Tetracera was found. Tetracera macphersonii, from Panama, is described and illustrated, and its relationships are discussed. A key to the species of Tetracera from Mesoamerica is provided. /// Como resultado de la revisin de la coleccin de la familia Dilleniaceae depositada en el Jardn Botnico de Missouri, U.S.A., se describe una nueva especie del gnero Tetracera (T. macphersonii) de Panam. Se discuten sus relaciones con las especies afines. Se presenta una ilustracin y una clave de las especies del gnero presentes en Mesoamrica.
20406290|Seven new species of Faramea Aublet (Rubiaceae, Coussareae) are newly described from Colombia, Ecuador, Panama, and Peru. The new species F. colombiana C. M. Taylor from northwestern Colombia differs from F. robusta C. M. Taylor by its longer pedicels and larger flowers; F. condorica C. M. Taylor from southeastern Ecuador differs from F. phyllonomoides Standley by its longer calyx limbs and corollas with the tubes about twice as long as the lobes; F. frondosa C. M. Taylor from Panama differs from F. eurycarpa Donnell Smith by its oblanceolate to obovate calyx lobes 3.5-7 mm long; F. melicoccoides C. M. Taylor from western Colombia is distinguished by its relatively large fruits with a thickened pericarp, juicy mesocarp, and single smooth seed; F. ortiziana C. M. Taylor from Amazonian Peru differs from F. guianensis (Aublet) Bremekamp by its often terminal inflorescences and larger flowers and fruits; F. robusta C. M. Taylor from northwestern Colombia differs from F. polytriadophora Bremekamp by its longer peduncles and larger flowers; and F. schunkeana C. M. Taylor from central Peru differs from F. morilloi Steyermark by its leaves obtuse to rounded or cordulate at base, its larger corollas, and its smooth seeds.
23018444|We describe Gaultheria paucinervia P. W. Fritsch & C. M. Bush (Ericaceae: Gaultherieae), a new species apparently restricted to the eastern slopes of Mt. Kinabalu in Sabah State, Borneo, Malaysia. This species has been confused with G. borneensis Stapf, but differs in its more erect habit and larger stature, longer nonappressed leaf trichomes, purple (vs. white) fruiting calyx, and lower elevation range, among other features. The two species are furthermore well separated in molecular phylogenetic analyses, with G. paucinervia grouping in a clade of other eastern Asian species sharing whitish green abaxial leaf surfaces, racemose inflorescences, and a fleshy calyx surrounding a dry capsule.
10.2307/3391515|Xylopia plowmanii is newly described from plants from Estado Apure and Estado Amazonas, Venezuela. It most closely resembles a group of emarginate-leaved species that includes X. emarginata, X. spruceana, and X. venezuelana.
10.2307/3392144|Tapirira rubrinervis Barfod, sp. nov., is described from the coastal plain of Ecuador. It is easily distinguished from its congeners by the fewfoliolate leaves, the obovate, unequally sized leaflets, and the striking red venation of the lower surfaces of the leaflets. The variation in leaf morphology and phenology is discussed. /// Se describe una especie nueva, Tapirira rubrinervis Barfod, de la regin costera de Ecuador. Se distingue fcilmente de sus congneres por tener las hojas con pocos fololos, los fololos desiguales y obovados, con llamativa nervadura roja del envs. Asimismo, se comenta la variacin en la morfologa de las hojas y su fenologa.
10.2307/3393209|Egeria heterostemon (Hydrocharitaceae), a new species from central Brazil, is described and illustrated. It is distinguished from congeneric species by its flowers having heteromorphic whorls of stamens, and by its long-stalked clavate staminodes, which are strongly papillose distally. Further, taxonomic notes on Apalanthe granatensis (Humboldt & Bonpland) Planchon are presented, and a key to species of both genera is provided.
10.2307/3393167|A new species of Aralia from Sulawesi, Indonesia, A. frodiniana J. Wen, is described and illustrated. The new species belongs to Aralia sect. Dimorphanthus and is similar to A. montana from Java and Sumatra of Indonesia in its short or subsessile petiolules, and the narrowly triangular, dark brownish and glabrous inflorescence bracts with ciliate margins. Aralia frodiniana is distinguished from A. montana by its densely pubescent inflorescence, more pubescent leaves, and thinner leaflets. It differs from A. ferox from Java and Sumatra in its pubescent (vs. glabrescent) leaflets, and densely pubescent (vs. glabrous) inflorescence.
10.2307/3393251|Eight new Neotropical species of Psychotria subg. Psychotria are described and illustrated here: P. cerrocoloradensis of western Panama and P. matagalpensis of northern Nicaragua have both previously been confused with P. sylvivaga Standley and P. chiriquina Standley; P. cornejoi of western Ecuador has been previously confused with P. trivialis Rusby; P. jefensis of Costa Rica and Panama and P. orosioides of Costa Rica have both been previously confused with P. orosiana Standley; P. lorenciana of southern Mexico and Guatemala has been variously confused with P. grandis Swartz, P. flava Oersted ex Standley, and P. costivenia Grisebach; and P. romolerouxiana of Amazonian Ecuador and Peru and P. sacciformis of lowland Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru have both previously been confused with P. borjensis Kunth. The interpretations of stipule morphology and the arrangement of the flowers on the higher-order inflorescence axes as taxonomically informative characters have varied among previous authors and are re-evaluated here.
10.2307/3391503|During preparation of a revision of the genus Petrea (Verbenaceae), it has become evident that six specimens from white sands in Roraima, Brazil, represent a new species that is herein described and given the name Petrea campinae. The new species is most closely related to Petrea brevicalyx from the same area.
10.2307/3393572|A new combination, Monarda humilis, is established to accommodate one of the two species of Monarda sect. Cheilyctis that is found in New Mexico. This species differs from the other species in New Mexico, M. punctata, by its corolla pigmentation, leaf size, and more diminutive and gracile habit. A key to the six species of section Cheilyctis is provided, and evidence for specific status of several taxa is discussed.
10.2307/3391774|Study of Gesneriaceae for the Flora of Ecuador and the Catalogue of the Vascular Plants of Ecuador has shown that some recently published new species need to be transferred with new combinations in Columnea: C. filifera, C. katzensteinii, C. mastersonii, C. medicinalis, C. ornata, and C. tandapiana, or included as synonyms of previously published species.
10.2307/3393098|Hibiscus trilobus subsp. hirsutus from Belize and Guatemala is described as new, based on differences in pubescence, leaf form, and phytogeography. The new combination H. trilobus subsp. ingratus is also made, based on H. ingratus Miquel. A key is provided to distinguish the three recognized subspecies.
20406167|The dwarf mistletoe severely parasitizing Pacific silver fir in Oregon is described as a new subspecies of hemlock dwarf mistletoe. This classification is based on morphological and host range differences between hemlock dwarf mistletoe, Arceuthobium tsugense (Rosendahl) G. N. Jones subsp. tsugense, and the new subspecies, Pacific silver fir dwarf mistletoe, Arceuthobium tsugense subsp. amabilae Mathiasen & C. Daugherty.
20406121|A synopsis of Cousinia Cassini sect. Serratuloides Bunge (Asteraceae) is presented. The new species C. sheidaii and C. elburzensis, collected from Markazi and Mazandaran provinces in Iran, respectively, are described and illustrated, and characters that distinguish them from their nearest relatives are given. A description of the section Serratuloides Bunge, an enumeration, and a key to its 13 species are given.
10.2307/3393135|A new species of Sladenia (Sladeniaceae) from China, Sladenia integrifolia Y. M. Shui, is described and illustrated. The relationship to and characters distinguishing the new species from Sladenia celastrifolia Kurz are discussed. The systematic position of the genus is also reviewed.
10.2307/3391648|Atriplex valdesii, a new species, is described, illustrated, and compared to its closest presumed relatives. The chromosome number is n = 9; photographs of the meiotic cells are presented. The species inhabits saline soils in San Luis Potos and Zacatecas, Mexico.
10.2307/3391426|Two new species of Lycopodiaceae, Huperzia mesoamericana and H. talamancana, are described as a result of revision of material for the pteridophyte volume of Flora Mesoamericana. The relationship of H. talamancana to H. crassa is discussed. A new combination, Huperzia curvifolia var. parvifolia, is proposed.
10.2307/3392133|Hessea tenuipedicellata, a new granite-loving species from Namaqualand, shares slender, pliant, upwardly curved pedicels, white flowers, and channeled, narrow, tepals with H. stenosiphon (Snijman) D. & U. Mller-Doblies. Hessea subg. Hessea is amplified to include H. tenuipedicellata and H. stenosiphon, and H. subg. Kamiesbergia (Snijman) Snijman is a new synonym of H. subg. Hessea. In H. subg. Namaquanula (D. & U. Mller-Doblies) Snijman, Namaquanula etesionamibensis D. & U. Mller-Doblies is a new synonym of Hessea bruce-bayeri (D. & U. Mller-Doblies) Snijman.
40300952|Menyanthaceae species in Australia formerly belonging to the genus Villarsia Ventenat, which morphological and molecular data have shown to be paraphyletic, are provided with new combinations in Liparophyllum Hooker f. and the novel genus Ornduffia Tippery & Les: L. capitatum (Nees ex Lehmann) Tippery & Les; L. congestiflorum (F. Mueller) Tippery & Les, lectotypified here; L. exaltatum (Solander ex Sims) Tippery & Les; L. exiguum (F. Mueller) Tippery & Les; L. lasiospermum (F. Mueller) Tippery & Les, lectotypified here; L. latifolium (Bentham) Tippery & Les; L. violifolium (F. Mueller) Tippery & Les, lectotypified here; O. albiflora (F. Mueller) Tippery & Les, lectotypified here; 0. calthifolia (F. Mueller) Tippery & Les, lectotypified here; O. marchantii (Ornduff) Tippery & Les; 0. parnassifolia (Labillardire) Tippery & Les; O. reniformis (R. Brown) Tippery & Les; O. submersa (Aston) Tippery & Les; and O. umbricola (Aston) Tippery & Les.
10.2307/3391987|Three new species of Markea, M. antioquiensis, M. epifita, and M. pilosa, are described, having been discovered as a result of revision of material for the Checklist of the Vascular Plants of Ecuador. The relationships of these new taxa to the previously described Colombian endemic Markea lopezii Hunziker and the recently described M. spruceana Hunziker, and the status of the genus Markea s. str., are discussed. An amplified description is provided for M. spruceana with notes on its natural history. The three new taxa are illustrated, and a distribution map with all four taxa is provided.
43289117|Pavetta glaucophylla Retief, S. J. Siebert & A. E. van Wyk, a new species of the Rubiaceae (Ixoroideae) from South Africa, is described and illustrated. A member of Pavetta L. subg. Pavetta, it has a restricted range and is near endemic to the Sekhukhuneland Centre of Endemism. Hitherto P. glaucophylla has mainly been confused with P. zeyheri Sond., from which it differs in being a taller plant with larger, blue-green leaves in living condition instead of dark green to gray-green leaves and flowers in which the calyx lobes are 0.50.75 mm long and triangular-ovate, and 1.252 mm long and not triangular-lanceolate, as in P. zeyheri.
3393438|Six species of Hibiscus sect. Furcaria (Malvaceae) from Bolivia are described as new, on the basis of character combinations not previously recognized in the group, from a study of the South American representatives of section Furcaria. A key is provided to distinguish the 16 species of Hibiscus (from all sections of the genus) known from Bolivia.
23018498|Three species of Calathea G. Mey. in Calathea sect. Calathea (Marantaceae) are described as new from montane wet forest habitats in Costa Rica: C. recurvata H. Kenn., C. tarrazuensis H. Kenn., and C. verruculosa H. Kenn. These are found in montane wet, montane rainforest, or cloud forest habitats at mid to higher elevations from 800 to 1500 m. All three taxa are endemic to Costa Rica. Calathea recurvata differs from related distichous-bracted species by the close vein spacing (30 to 35 lateral veins per 3 cm) of the leaf, pale whitish green to yellowish green bracts with recurved apical margins, claviculate bracteoles, yellow or pink corolla lobes, and yellow or pink-purple staminodes. Calathea verruculosa is distinguished by the shiny dark green ovate leaf, verruculose petioles and peduncles, stiff lime-green bracts with apically recurved margins, claviculate bracteoles, and yellow corolla and staminodes. Calathea tarrazuensis is distinguished by the narrowly ovate-elliptic leaf with length:width ratios of 2.134.8:1 and an acuminate-attenuate apex, the glabrous pulvinus, relatively long peduncles (44111 cm), the elliptic olive-green bracts with the uppermost bract incoiled on itself not subtending flowers, the apically flattened, slightly thickened bracteoles, and the cream-white flowers. Tres especies de Calathea G. Mey. dentro de Calathea sect. Calathea (Marantaceae) se describen como nuevas, las cuales crecen en bosque hmedo, pluvial o nublado, a elevaciones medias desde 800 hasta 1500 m. Las tres especies son endmicas de Costa Rica. Entre las especies con inflorescencias dstico-bracteadas, C. recurvata se distingue por la corta distancia entre los nervios laterales de la hoja (30 hasta 35 nervios laterales por cada 3 cm), las brcteas blanquecino-verdosas a amarillo-verdoso plidas con los mrgenes apicales recurvados, las bractolas claviculadas, los lbulos de la corola amarillo claros o rosados y los estaminodios amarillos o purpreo-rosados. Calathea verruculosa se distingue por las lminas foliares ovadas, verde oscuro brillantes, los pecolos y pednculos verruculosos, las brcteas cartceas, verde-lima con los mrgenes apicales recurvados, las bractolas claviculadas, y la corola y los estaminodios amarillos. Calathea tarrazuensis se distingue por las hojas ovado-elpticas angostas, 2.134.8 veces tan largas como anchas, con pice acuminado-atenuado, el pulvnulo glabro, pednculos largos (44111 cm), las brcteas elpticas de color verde aceituna con la ultima brctea enrollada y sin flores, las bractolas aplanadas apicalmente y poco gruesas, y las flores blanco-crema.
10.2307/3393003|The taxonomic limits of Synstemon are established, and its relationship to Dontostemon is discussed. Synstemon lulianlianus, a new species from Gansu, is described and illustrated. Previously described taxa in Synstemon are reduced to synonymy of S. petrovii.
10.2307/3393261| Se describen e ilustran dos Sterculiaceae nuevas del norte de Per: Ayenia peregrina y Byttneria sagasteguii. Se comparan ambas novedades con las especies afines. Ayenia peregrina corresponde a la seccin Leiayenia. Se llama la atencin sobre el hallazgo de un representante de esta seccin en Sudamrica, ya que el rea conocida abarcaba el centro sur de los Estados Unidos de Amrica, Centroamrica y las Antillas Mayores. Byttneria sagastegui pertenece a la seccin Incasica. /// Ayenia peregrina and Byttneria sagasteguii, two new species from the north of Peru, are described, illustrated, and compared to related species. The remarkable finding of A. peregrina is discussed because it belongs to Ayenia sect. Leiayenia, known up to now from the south-central U.S.A., Central America, and the Greater Antilles. Byttneria sagasteguii belongs to section Incasica. 
20406052|Two new Peruvian species of Cybianthus Martius (Myrsinaceae), C. tayoensis Pipoly & Ricketson, of subgenus Cybianthus, from Amazonas, and C. candamoensis Pipoly & Ricketson, of subgenus Weigeltia A. DC., from Puno, are described and illustrated. Cybianthus tayoensis may be recognized by its terete branchlets; leaf blades 6-7 cm wide with adaxial surface showing prominulous secondary veins; and reddish flowers with calyx 1-1.2 mm long, widely ovate lobes, and entire margins. Cybianthus candamoensis is easily recognized by its chartaceous, elliptic leaf blades with acuminate apices; petioles 2-2.5 cm long; staminate flower pedicels 1-1.2 mm long; and calyx unequally divided, lobes deltate to subdeltate or widely ovate, 0.7-1  0.7-1.2 mm, margins irregular to somewhat erose apically, corolla lobes 1-1.5  1-1.3 mm, with margins entire. Formal conservation assessments are reported for each. /// Se describen e ilustran dos especies nuevas peruanas pertenecientes al gnero Cybianthus Martius (Myrsinaceae), C. tayoensis Pipoly & Ricketson, del subgnero Cybianthus, proveniente del Departamento de Amazonas, y C. candamoensis Pipoly & Ricketson, del subgnero Weigeltia A. DC., proveniente del Puno. Cybianthus tayoensis se puede reconocer por sus ramitas teretes, las lminas 6-7 cm de ancho, con las venas secundarias ligeramente prominentes en la haz, las flores rojizas, el cliz 1-1.2 mm de largo, con los lbulos aovados y con mrgenes enteros. Cybianthus candamoensis se reconoce fcilmente por sus hojas cartceas y elpticas con pices acuminados, los pecolos 2-2.5 mm de largo, los pedicelos de las flores estaminadas 1-1.2 mm de largo, el cliz no igualmente dividido, los lbulos deltados o subdeltados o anchamente aovados, 0.7-1.0  0.7-1.2 mm, los mrgenes irregulares hasta algo erosos hacia el pice, los lbulos corolinos 1.0-1.5  1.0-1.3 mm, con los mrgenes enteros. Se presentan evaluaciones para la conservacin de cada especie.
20406012|The name Primula lactiflora Turkevicz is a later homonym for a previously described taxon in Primulaceae. The new name P. turkeviczii Byalt is proposed as a replacement.
20406142|Based on herbarium and field studies of the Neotropical genus Swartzia Schreber (Leguminosae: Papilionoideae), seven new combinations are made: S. colombiana (R. S. Cowan) Torke, S. emarginata (Ducke) Torke, S. glabrata (R. S. Cowan) Torke, S. kaieteurensis (R. S. Cowan) Torke, S. klugii (R. S. Cowan) Torke, S. peruviana (R. S. Cowan) Torke, and S. polita (R. S. Cowan) Torke. All of these involve the recognition of former varieties as species due to the discovery of highly correlated morphological discontinuities, often corroborated by geographical and/or habitat separation, among the newly elevated species and closely related species. In addition, some 14 new species-level synonyms are proposed. Notable among these are: S. aureosericea R. S. Cowan (synonym of S. macrosema Harms), S. benthamiana var. yatuensis R. S. Cowan (synonym of S. rosea Martius ex Bentham), S. flaemingii var. cognata R. S. Cowan (synonym of S. polita), S. huallagae D. R. Simpson (synonym of S. calva R. S. Cowan), S. peremarginata R. S. Cowan (synonym of S. riedelii R. S. Cowan), S. racemosa var. major R. S. Cowan (synonym of S. klugii), and S. stipellata R. S. Cowan (synonym of S. anomala R. S. Cowan). /// Basado en estudios de herbario y de campo del gnero neotropical Swartzia Schreber (Leguminosae: Papilionoideae), se hicieron siete combinaciones nuevas: S. colombiana (R. S. Cowan) Torke, S. emarginata (Ducke) Torke, S. glabrata (R. S. Cowan) Torke, S. kaieteurensis (R. S. Cowan) Torke, S. klugii (R. S. Cowan) Torke, S. peruviana (R. S. Cowan) Torke, y S. polita (R. S. Cowan) Torke. Todas stas involucran el reconocimiento de variedades como especies, debido al descubrimiento de discontinuidades morfolgicas altamente correlacionadas, a menudo corroboradas por separacin geogrfica y/o hbitat entre las especies recientemente elevadas y las especies cercanamente relacionadas. Adicionalmente, se proponen 14 nuevos sinnimos a nivel de especies. Entre los ms sobresalientes estn: S. aureosericea R. S. Cowan (sinnimo de S. macrosema Harms), S. benthamiana var. yatuensis R. S. Cowan (sinnimo de S. rosea Martius ex Bentham), S. flaemingii var. cognata R. S. Cowan (sinnimo de S. polita), S. huallagae D. R. Simpson (sinnimo de S. calva R. S. Cowan), S. peremarginata R. S. Cowan (sinnimo de S. riedelii R. S. Cowan), S. racemosa var. major R. S. Cowan (sinnimo de S. klugii), y S. stipellata R. S. Cowan (sinnimo de S. anomala R. S. Cowan).
3393458|The genus Seutera Reichenbach is resurrected to accommodate the taxa most frequently known as Cynanchum angustifolium Persoon, C. palmeri (S. Watson) S. F. Blake, and C. peninsulare S. F. Blake, for which the combinations Seutera angustifolia (Persoon) Fishbein & W. D. Stevens, S. palmeri (S. Watson) Fishbein & W. D. Stevens, and S. palmeri var. peninsularis (S. F. Blake) Fishbein & W. D. Stevens are provided. The nomenclatural and taxonomic validity of Seutera are discussed. Ceropegia palustris Pursh and Amphistelma salinarum C. Wright are placed in the synonymy of Seutera angustifolia. Cynanchum mulegense Wiggins is placed in the synonymy of Seutera palmeri.
23018475|Recent studies on South American Hybanthus Jacq. s.l. (Violaceae) revealed the need to select a neotype for the name H. longistylus Schulze-Menz, the holotype of which was destroyed in Berlin during World War II. Estudios recientes realizados en Hybanthus Jacq. s.l. (Violaceae) de Sud-Amrica revelaron la necesidad para seleccionar un neotipo para el nombre H. longistylus Schulze-Menz, debido a que el holotipo fue destruido en Berlin durante la Segunda Guerra Mundial.
20406032|Four nomenclatural arrangements are proposed in Brazilian Myrtaceae: in Myrcia, one new name (M. neorostrata for Aulomyrcia rostrata) and two new combinations (M. densa for Calyptranthes densa and M. tenuifolia for Aulomyrcia tenuifolia), and one new combination in Myrciaria, M. glazioviana, based on Eugenia cabelludo var. glazioviana. /// So propostas quatro alteraes nomenclaturais em Myrtaceae brasileiras: um novo nome em Myrcia (M. neorostrata em substituio a Aulomyrcia rostrata), duas novas combinaes em Myrcia (M. densa, baseada em Calyptranthes densa e M. tenuifolia, em Aulomyrcia tenuifolia), e uma nova combinao em Myrciaria, M. glazioviana, baseada em Eugenia cabelludo var. glazioviana.
20406219|Twenty-three species and one subspecies of Corydalis DC. (Fumariaceae) from China and Tibet are described as new to science: C. aeditua Lidn & Z. Y. Su, C. cheilosticta Z. Y. Su & Lidn, C. cryptogama Z. Y. Su & Lidn, C. dolichocentra Z. Y. Su & Lidn, C. gymnopoda Z. Y. Su & Lidn, C. heterothylax C. Y. Wu ex Z. Y. Su & Lidn, C. ischnosiphon Lidn & Z. Y. Su, C. jiulongensis Z. Y. Su & Lidn, C. lagochila Lidn & Z. Y. Su, C. longistyla Z. Y. Su & Lidn, C. lophophora Lidn & Z. Y. Su, C. madida Lidn & Z. Y. Su, C. mediterranea Z. Y. Su & Lidn, C. milarepa Lidn & Z. Y. Su, C. nematopoda Lidn & Z. Y. Su, C. nubicola Z. Y. Su & Lidn, C. papillosa Z. Y. Su & Lidn, C. procera Lidn, & Z. Y. Su, C. sarcolepis Lidn & Z. Y. Su, C. sophronitis Z. Y. Su & Lidn, C. tenuipes Lidn & Z. Y. Su, C. virginea Lidn & Z. Y. Su, C. yaoi Lidn & Z. Y. Su, and C. cheilosticta subsp. borealis Lidn & Z. Y. Su. Six previously recognized subspecific taxa are raised to specific rank, and three of these are provided with new names: C. microflora (H. Chuang) Z. Y. Su & Lidn, stat. nov. [= C. flexuosa var. microflora H. Chuang], C. mucronipetala (H. Chuang) Lidn & Z. Y. Su, stat. nov. [= C. flexuosa var. mucronipetala H. Chuang], C. omeiana (C. Y. Wu & H. Chuang) Z. Y. Su & Lidn stat. nov. [= C. flexuosa var. omeiana C. Y. Wu & H. Chuang], C. amplisepala Z. Y. Su & Lidn, nom. et stat. nov. [= C. pseudomucronata var. cristata C. Y. Wu], C. harry-smithii Lidn & Z. Y. Su, nom. et stat. nov. [= C. elata subsp. ecristata C. Y. Wu], and C. pseudomairei C. Y. Wu ex Z. Y. Su & Lidn, nom. et stat. nov. [= C. mairei var. megalantha C. Y. Wu].
10.2307/3393254|Four varieties within H. angustifolia Lamarck, the most common species of the genus Hypoxis L. in Africa, are recognized, based in part on differences of seed testa features between populations in Mauritius, Madagascar, and continental Africa. SEM micrographs of seeds of H. angustifolia var. angustifolia, variety luzuloides (Robyns & Tournay) Wiland, and variety madagascariensis Wiland are included, and full descriptions of the above varieties as well as H. augustifolia var. buchananii Baker are given.
27765222|Three new species of Pseudobombax Dugand (Malvaceae, Bombacoideae) are described and illustrated based on material from Brazil. Pseudobombax minimum Carv.-Sobr. & L. P. Queiroz is not clearly related to any species of Pseudobombax from central-eastern Brazil. However, P. minimum may be promptly recognized by its extremely reduced flowers (to 6 cm long) and fruits (to 5.5 cm long), the smallest recorded for Pseudobombax to date, in combination with the glabrous androecium and the presence of phalanges. The other two new species, P. calcicola Carv.-Sobr. & L. P. Queiroz and P. parvifolium Carv.-Sobr. & L. P. Queiroz, seem to be related to P. grandiflorum (Cav.) A. Robyns based on the number of leaflets and the absence of phalanges in the androecium, but differ due to the absence of intersecondary veins, the larger ovary, and the fruits angled, but not winged.
10.2307/3392271|Diospyros xishuangbannaensis, previously invalidly described, is validated.
10.2307/3393052|Manihot caerulescens subsp. laevis, M. carthaginensis subsp. hahnii, and M. dichotoma var. undulata, all three assigned herein to section Glaziovianae, are described and illustrated. Manihot carthaginensis subsp. hahnii appears endemic to northern and northwestern portions of Minas Gerais. Manihot dichotoma var. undulata and M. caerulescens subsp. laevis are endemic to Brazil's northeastern semiarid phytogeographic region known as caatinga. A new combination is provided for M. glaziovii, which is submerged as a subspecies in the expanded circumscription of M. carthaginensis.
20406284|Tragopogon soltisiorum Mavrodiev (Asteraceae, Cichorieae, Scorzonerinae) is described as a new species. The new species is a tetraploid (2n = 24), ruderal plant with long flowering and fruiting times and differs from the vast majority of Tragopogon L. species in its ability to reproduce vegetatively from adventitious shoots. The new species is known only from southern Russia and is found in two varieties--a typical variety and a new variety latifolius Mavrodiev.
3393504|Epigeneium gaoligongense Hong Yu & Shi-Gang Zhang, a new species of Orchidaceae from Lushui County in western Yunnan, is described and illustrated. It is related to Epigeneium rotundatum (Lindley) Summerhayes, but differs from it by having smaller leaves 2.5-7 cm long, narrower petals 1.5-2 mm wide, a broadly ovate-orbicular lip with much larger lateral lobes, three indistinct keels and a callus on the disc, and a shorter column 4-5 mm long.
10.2307/3391915|Two new species of the African and Eurasian genus Gladiolus occurring on unusual substrates are described from southern Africa. Gladiolus serpenticola is restricted to serpentine soils in the Barberton District, Mpumalanga Province, South Africa, and adjacent Swaziland and G. pavonia occurs on dolomite in Mpumalanga. Gladiolus serpenticola, unusually tall for the genus, stands 75-150 cm high, has small, dry floral bracts, and short-tubed, pale pink flowers. It appears to be most closely related to another Mpumalanga endemic, G. hollandii, and both belong to an alliance of eastern southern African species centered around the widespread G. crassifolius. Gladiolus pavonia has pale pink flowers and is most likely related to a complex of eastern southern African species, mostly of rocky habitats in montane grasslands. Three additional species of Gladiolus from Western Cape Province, South Africa, are recognized here: G. miniatus, G. caeruleus, and G. variegatus. The first is reinstated at species rank after having been reduced to a subspecies of G. floribundus. Gladiolus caeruleus and G. variegatus are raised from infraspecific rank in which they were treated as G. gracilis var. latifolius and G. debilis var. variegatus, respectively. All three of these species are restricted to limestone outcrops. Gladiolus miniatus and G. variegatus occur in the southern part of Western Cape Province, and G. caeruleus is restricted to a small area of the west coast of the Province. These five species join the small number of taxa of African Iridaceae listed here, now totaling 15, known to be endemic or largely restricted to unusual soil types.
10.2307/3391552|As treated for the forthcoming revision of the Jepson Manual of the Flowering Plants of California, there are six species of Grindelia in California. Hybridization among them is common, and is apparently the reason for proliferation of epithets in the group. Thorough study of over 6,000 specimens (including the types for all epithets involved) from 34 herbaria has necessitated the recognition of several new combinations, and synonymization of many others.
10.2307/3392019|Se dan a conocer nuevas combinaciones en Thelypteris subg. Amauropelta: T. eriosora, T. novaeana, T. rioverdensis y T. tamandarei de Brasil. Se cita por primera vez T. oligocarpa var. crassistipitata para Brasil y se dan nuevas localidades brasileas de T. glaziovii y T. heineri. Se establecen nuevos sinnimos para T. mosenii de Brasil y Paraguay. /// New combinations are proposed in Thelypteris subg. Amauropelta: T. eriosora, T. novaeana, T. rioverdensis, and T. tamandarei from Brazil. New records of T. oligocarpa var. crassistipitata from Brazil and a new Brazilian range of T. glaziovii and T. heineri are provided. New synonymies for T. mosenii from Brazil and Paraguay are also established.
10.2307/3393093|In the treatment of the Triticeae (Poaceae) for the Flora of China, Roegneria K. Koch is recognized as a synonym of Elymus L. This decision led to the following 18 nomenclatural novelties: E. abolinii (Drobow) Tzvelev var. nudiusculus (L. B. Cai) S. L. Chen & G. Zhu, comb. et stat. nov.; E. angustispiculatus S. L. Chen & G. Zhu, nom. nov.; E. caianus S. L. Chen & G. Zhu, nom. nov.; E. cheniae (L. B. Cai) G. Zhu, comb. nov.; E. curtiaristatus (L. B. Cai) S. L. Chen & G. Zhu, comb. nov.; E. debilis (L. B. Cai) S. L. Chen & G. Zhu, comb. nov.; E. gmelinii (Ledebour) Tzvelev var. macrantherus (Ohwi) S. L. Chen & G. Zhu, comb. nov.; E. hongyuanensis (L. B. Cai) S. L. Chen & G. Zhu, comb. nov.; E. kamoji (Ohwi) S. L. Chen var. macerrimus G. Zhu, var. nov.; E. laxinodis (L. B. Cai) S. L. Chen & G. Zhu, comb. nov.; E. magnipodus (L. B. Cai) S. L. Chen & G. Zhu, comb. nov.; E. serpentinus (L. B. Cai) S. L. Chen & G. Zhu, comb. nov.; E. shouliangiae (L. B. Cai) G. Zhu, comb. nov.; E. sinicus (Keng) S. L. Chen var. medius (Keng) S. L. Chen & G. Zhu, comb. nov.; E. sinoflexuosus S. L. Chen & G. Zhu, nom. nov.; E. strictus (Keng) . Lve var. crassus (L. B. Cai) S. L. Chen & G. Zhu, comb. et stat. nov.; E. trichospicula (L. B. Cai) S. L. Chen & G. Zhu, comb. nov.; and E. yushuensis (L. B. Cai) S. L. Chen & G. Zhu, comb. nov.
10.2307/3393104|Three new species of Marcetia are described and illustrated. Marcetia semiriana occurs only in Sena do Cip Minas Gerais. Marcetia shepherdii, collected in Mara, at sea level, and M. lychnophoroides, from Chapada Diamantina, are both endemic to Bahia. The new species Marcetia shepherdii and M. lychnophoroides, together with M. luetzelburgii Markgraf, constitute a group of closely related species. They share in common subcoriaceous, fleshy, imbricate to subimbricate, revolute leaves. Marcetia shepherdii is distinguished by its rigid, erect branchlets, yellowish green leaves that are glabrous on the adaxial surface, unappendaged and broadly dilated connectives, linear-oblong thecae with a ventrally inclined pore, and a unique 2-locular ovary. Marcetia lychnophoroides has velutinous to sublanate branchlets, cinereous-green leaves that are densely puberulous-sericeous on the abaxial surface, unprolonged and inconspicuously bilobulate connectives, and a 3- or 4-locular ovary. Marcetia semiriana is very similar to M. taxifolia (A. Saint-Hilaire) DC. differing in the prostrate branches, long pedunculate flowers, and straight anthers.
43288944|The new species Amomum sahyadricum V. P. Thomas & M. Sabu (Zingiberaceae) is described and illustrated from the Western Ghats, India. The new species is related to A. muricatum Bedd., but differs from it in the smaller habit (33-60 cm vs. 70-150 cm in A. muricatum), the prominently raised veins on the adaxial surface of the leaf lamina (vs. immersed venation), the fleshy and thick bracts (vs. membranous bracts), 2-horned bracteoles, the calyx with three mucronate teeth, dorsal corolla lobe mucronate at apex, and the rugose to muricate fruits (vs. echinate fruits). IUCN status, distribution, phenology, and ecological details are provided.
10.2307/3393044|Gynerium was traditionally classified in the reed tribe Arundineae in the Arundinoideae, but recent molecular studies strongly support its affinities with the Panicoideae + Centothecoideae clade. A new tribe, the Gynerieae, is described to accommodate Gynerium.
10.2307/3391766|We describe Cleome (sect. Tarenaya) torticarpa H. H. Iltis & T. Ruiz Zapata n. sp., a distinct, very local endemic annual, known only from wet gallery forests along a perpetually flowing river that exits the mouth of a cave in the Cueva de la Quebrada El Toro National Park, Estado Falcn, Venezuela. It is distinguished from C. latifolia Vahl by flattened and then twisted short fruits with more or less explosive dehiscence, and from C. parviflora HBK, in addition, by the always 3-foliolate leaves. /// Se describe Cleome (sect. Tarenaya) torticarpa H. H. Iltis & T. Ruiz Zapata n. sp., una especie endmica muy localizada, conocida solamente del Parque Nacional Cueva de la Quebrada El Toro en el Estado Falcn, Venezuela, donde crece en un ambiente permanentemente hmedo. Se distingue de C. latifolia Vahl por sus frutos aplanados, torcidos y con una dehiscencia ms o menos explosiva, y adems de C. parviflora HBK, por sus hojas siempre 3-folioladas.
20406124|Two new species, Poikilogyne cornuta Cellinese & J. F. Maxwell and P. lakekamuensis Cellinese, are here described. Poikilogyne cornuta is distinct in the genus for the dimorphic anthers and for the peculiar disparity of the connectives and locules. Poikilogyne lakekamuensis is the only vine in the genus having 4-merous flowers. Both species are endemic to Papua New Guinea and known only from a single locality.
10.2307/3392991|Dioscorea natalia (Dioscoreaceae) is described from wet to very wet areas on both Pacific and Caribbean slopes of Costa Rica, from the Monteverde area to Tapant National Park. The species' confusion with the related D. lepida C. V. Morton is discussed, and a key is provided to distinguish it from that species and the other two closely related Costa Rican species, D. racemosa (Klotzsch) Uline and D. standlyei C. V. Morton.
20406056|A study of morphological characters based on a review of herbarium specimens from Yunnan Province, China, reveals that the following new combination is necessary. The previously recognized species Erythrina yunnanensis S. K. Lee (Leguminosae) is reduced in rank to variety as Erythrina stricta Roxburgh var. yunnanensis (S. K. Lee) R. Sa.
10.2307/3392992|The geographically isolated annual teosinte from the coastal plain and embayments/estuaries near the Gulf of Fonseca, Nicaragua, is differentiated from Zea luxurians from southeastern Guatemala by its much longer and more abundant tassel branches, larger number of spikelets per branch, and longer, more pronouncedly transversely rugose outer glumes, as well as by its low-elevation coastal habitat. Molecular (ribosomal ITS) evidence and other data, placing it basal to Z. luxurians, seem to support this taxonomic segregation. /// El teosinte annual que crece en aislamiento geogrfico en la planicie costera y los bajos inundados y esteros cerca del Golfo de Fonseca, Nicaragua, difiere de Z. luxurians del sureste de Guatemala por el nmero mayor de ramas y espiguillas por rama de la inflorescencia masculina, por la rugosidad transversal pronunciada de las glumas inferiores, adems de altura baja de su habitat costero. Evidencia molecular ubica a esta especie como ms primitiva a la especie Z. luxurians y apoya a esta segregacin taxonmica.
10.2307/3392120|Calathea singularis from southeastern Brazil and Stromanthe palustris from Costa Rica are described as new. Calathea singularis, vegetatively unique within the Marantaceae, has a pulvinus of two separate parts rather than the pulvinar cells continuous and encircling the uppermost portion of the petiole. Stromanthe palustris, endemic to the Atlantic lowlands of Costa Rica, is described for inclusion in A Manual to the Plants of Costa Rica treatment.
10.2307/3391604|In preparation of the Asclepiadaceae treatment for the Flora of the Venezuela Guayana, one new species of Matelea, M. stergiosii, and two new species of Ditassa, D. ottohuberi and D. verticillata, are herein described. A new combination is also made in Ditassa, D. bolivarensis.
10.2307/3392124|Larix kongboensis, a new species from southeastern Xizang (China) near its borders with Arunachal Pradesh (India), is described. Previously misidentified as L. mastersiana, its affinities with that Sichuan endemic and with L. griffithii (eastern Himalaya) and L. speciosa (Yunnan, Myanmar) are discussed. Within L. potaninii Batalin, variety australis A. Henry ex Handel-Mazzetti has been found to be an earlier name for variety macrocarpa Y. W. Law. The nomenclature of the "Sikkim Larch" is discussed, and it is concluded that Larix griffithii J. D. Hooker, not L. griffithiana Carrire, is the correct name for this species.
40300877|Agrostopoa Davidse, Soreng & P. M. Peterson, a new genus endemic to the pramos of Colombia, is proposed. The genus includes two new species, A. barclayae Davidse, Soreng & P. M. Peterson and A. woodii Soreng, P. M. Peterson & Davidse, and a third species transferred from Muhlenbergia Schreber, A. wallisii (Mez) P. M. Peterson, Soreng & Davidse (lectotype designated here). A key for determining the species and illustrations of the three species are provided. Agrostopoa is placed in subfamily Pooideae because it has non-Kranz anatomy and lanceolate membranous lodicules, and in tribe Poeae where it differs from Agrostis L. by having carinate lemmas with a terminal awn or mucro, well-developed paleas, and peculiar synflorescences with recurved branches and fragile pedicels. It is classified near Poa L., but differs from that in its single-flowered spikelets that lack rachilla extensions and possess awned or mucronate lemmas. /// Se propone Agrostopoa Davidse, Soreng & P. M. Peterson como un gnero nuevo endmico de los pramos de Colombia. El genero incluye dos especies nuevas: A. barclayae Davidse, Soreng & P. M. Peterson y A. woodii Soreng, P. M. Peterson & Davidse; y las tres especies transferidos de Muhlenbergia Schreber: A. wallisii (Mez) P. M. Peterson, Soreng & Davidse (lectotipo designado aqu). Se presenta una clave de determinacin y las ilustraciones de esas tres especies. Agrostopoa pertenese a la subfamilia Pooideae basado sobre la anatoma foliar de non-Kranz y el tipo de las lodiculas cuales son membranosas y lanceoladas, y a la tribu Poeae donde Agrostopoa se diferencia de Agrostis L. por tener las lemas carinadas con una arista o un mucron terminal, las paleas bien desarolladas y las inflorescencias peculiares con las ramas curvadas y los pedicelos frgiles. Segun la esquema de clasificacin Agrostopoa es aproximada a Poa L., pero se diferencia de se genero por tener las espiguillas con una sola flor que carecen la extensin de rachilla, y tienen las lemas aristadas o mucronadas.
10.2307/3392017|The following new combinations are made: Plectranthus burorum (Chiovenda) J. K. Morton based on Coleus burorum Chiovenda, P. garckeanus (Vatke) J. K. Morton based on C. garckeanus Vatke, P. grandicalyx (E. A. Bruce) J. K. Morton based on C. grandicalyx E. A. Bruce, P. kapatensis (R. E. Fries) J. K. Morton based on C. kapatensis R. E. Fries, Isodon schimperi (Vatke) J. K. Morton based on P. schimperi Vatke, Solenostemon autrani (Briquet) J. K. Morton based on C. autrani Briquet, and S. porpeodon (J. G. Baker) J. K. Morton based on P. porpeodon J. G. Baker. Also two new names are put forward, P. puberulentus J. K. Morton to replace C. gracilis Grke and P. pseudobarbatus J. K. Morton to replace C. vestitus J. G. Baker.
10.2307/3393102|Secamone schatzii and S. linearis are two new species of Apocynaceae, Secamoneae, from the Malagasy eastern lowland forest and from the Marojejy mountains in northeastern Madagascar, respectively. Both species are related to Secamone tenuifolia and S. glaberrima from the Central Plateau. The new species are described, illustrated, and compared with related taxa. A key to the eight species in the Secamone tenuifolia group is given.
10.2307/3393074|A new monotypic genus, Socotrella (Apocynaceae-Asclepiadoideae-Ceropegieae), is described with a single species, S. dolichocnema Bruyns. This is known only from the western limestone plateau of the island of Socotra. Socotrella differs from Caralluma R. Brown by the lack of a differentiated leaf rudiment and its accompanying small marginal hairs, as well as the very different pollinaria. Although some features of the pollinaria suggest a relationship to Ballyanthus Bruyns, Duvalia Haworth, Duvaliandra M. G. Gilbert, Huernia R. Brown, and Whitesloanea Chiovenda, the fact that many inflorescences are produced toward the tips of the stems in Socotrella at once distinguishes it from all these genera.
10.2307/3393248|The new combinations Schoenoplectus purshianus (Fernald) M. T. Strong var. williamsii (Fernald) S. G. Smith, S. smithii (A. Gray) Sojk var. setosus (Fernald) S. G. Smith, and S. smithii var. levisetus (Fassett) S. G. Smith are made. Diagnostic features, mainly from spikelet dimensions, perianth bristles, and achenes, are provided that distinguish the eastern North American S. smithii and S. purshianus, and the eastern Asian and Pacific island S. hotarui (Ohwi) Holub, S. juncoides (Roxburgh) Palla, and S. komarovii (Roshevitz) Sojk, all five of which have been confused with each other. A description of Schoenoplectus sect. Actaeogeton (Reichenbach) J. Raynal is provided based mostly on North American and eastern Asian species.
23259337|Fieldwork and current research projects in Central and South America on the Gesneriaceae have shown that nomenclatural and taxonomic changes are needed. The Ecuadorian endemic species Columnea albovinosa (M. Freiberg) J. L. Clark & L. E. Skog is transferred from Dalbergaria Tussac. The name Pentadenia lutea M. Freiberg is synonymized with C. angustata (Wiehler) L. E. Skog. Amalophyllon ecuadoranum (Wiehler) J. L. Clark, comb. nov., is recognized as a species distinct from A. divaricatum (Poepp.) Boggan, L. E. Skog & Roalson. The application of the name C. serrata (Klotzsch ex Oerst.) Hanst. is stabilized by the designation of a neotype. The new name Drymonia ovatifolia J. L. Clark is made for the species Nautilocalyx dressleri Wiehler. Resia bracteata, a name originally published without a Latin diagnosis, is here validly published as R. bracteata J. L. Clark & L. E. Skog. El trabajo de campo en Gesneriaceae realizado en Centro y Sur Amrica, ha evidenciado la necesidad de realizar algunos cambios taxonmicos y nomenclaturales. Columnea albovinosa (M. Freiberg) J. L. Clark & L. E. Skog, especie endmica de Ecuador, se transfiere de Dalbergaria Tussac. Pentadenia lutea M. Freiberg es sinonimizada con C. angustata (Wiehler) L. E. Skog. Se reconoce a Amalophyllon ecuadoranum (Wiehler) J. L. Clark, comb. nov., como una especie diferente de A. divaricatum (Poepp.) Boggan, L. E. Skog & Roalson. Para preservar la estabilidad de la especie se designa un neotipo para C. serrata (Klotzsch ex Oerst.) Hanst. Se crea un nuevo nombre, Drymonia ovatifolia J. L. Clark, para la especie Nautilocalyx dressleri Wiehler. La especie Resia bracteata, orignialmente publicada sin la diagnosis en latn, es vlidamente publicada como R. bracteata J. L. Clark & L. E. Skog.
41811689|Dryopteris liboensis P. S. Wang, X. Y. Wang & Li Bing Zhang, a new species of Dryopteris Adans. (Dryopteridaceae) from southern Guizhou, China, is described and illustrated. Dryopteris liboensis is assigned to Dryopteris subg. Erythrovariae (H. Ito) Fraser-Jenk. on the basis of its stiff and narrow petiole and rachis scales, but the new species is noteworthy within the section because these scales are not bullate. Dryopteris liboensis has stiff, narrowly lanceolate and filiform scales on the petiole and rachis and is therefore considered a member of the D. erythrosora (D. C. Eaton) Kuntze group of Dryopteris sect. Erythrosoriae H. Ito. It is unique among Chinese taxa of Dryopteris sect. Erythrovariae in having leaves 1- or 2-pinnate basally, with zero to three free lobes, and 1-pinnatifid at the blade apex.
10.2307/3393029|Agallis is reduced to synonymy of Tropidocarpum, and the new combination T. lanatum is therefore proposed. The morphological similarities in plant aspect, flowers, and fruit between the two genera are presented, and a key to species of Tropidocarpum is given. Disjunction between North and South American congeners of the Brassicaceae is discussed.
10.2307/3391866|Morphological characters support the description of seven new species and one variety of Bambusoideae from Colombia belonging to four genera of woody bamboos: Arthrostylidium, Chusquea, Guadua, and Rhipidocladum. The new species and variety are described, illustrated, and compared with putatively related species. They are Arthrostylidium auriculatum, A. chiribiquetensis, A. punctulatum, A. virolinensis, Rhipidocladum abregoensis, Guadua angustifolia var. nigra, Chusquea antioquensis, and C. arachniforme. A revised key to the South American species of Arthrostylidium is presented. Two genera of woody bamboos previously unknown in Colombia are documented to occur there. Otatea, thought to be restricted to Mexico and Central America, is found in northern Colombia, and Merostachys, widespread but with its diversity concentrated in southeastern Brazil, is reported from north-central Colombia.
10.2307/3391850|Aldina paulberryi (Fabaceae: Caesalpinioideae), a new species from Amazonian lowland forest, is described and illustrated, and its relationship with A. reticulata is discussed.
10.2307/3393241|Two new species of Guadua from South America are described, illustrated, and compared with putatively related species. The two new species are Guadua macrospiculata from the western Amazon basin in southeastern Colombia, northwestern Brazil, and northern Peru, and G. uncinata from southern Colombia and central-eastern Ecuador. A description of the Brazilian species G. tagoara is included, establishing one new subspecies, G. tagoara subsp. glaziovii. from the Atlantic forests of the state of Rio de Janeiro. The empty bracts at the base of the spikelet proper of the pseu-dospikelet in Guadua are reinterpreted as sterile lemmas and not glumes. /// Dos nuevas especies de Guadua y una subespecie de G. tagoara son descritas para Sur America, incluyendo ilustraciones y datos comparativos con especies afines. Las nuevas especies son Guadua macrospiculata, que ocurre en la cuenca occidental Amaznica, especficamente en el sur-oriente de Colombia, noroccidente de Brasil y norte del Per, y G. uncinata que habita el sur de Colombia y la regin centro-oriental del Ecuador. Se hace una revisin de la especie brasilea G. tagoara estableciendo una nueva subespecie, G. tagoara subsp. glaziovii, que ocurre en la Mata Atlntica del estado de Rio de Janeiro en Brasil. Se reinterpretan las brcteas vacas en la base de la llamada espiguilla de la pseudoespiguilla en Guadua como lemas estriles y no glumas.
10.2307/3391981|A new species of Lycianthes from Jalisco, Mexico, is described and illustrated as L. jalicensis E. Dean.
3393343|Gymnosporia gariepensis Jordaan (Celastraceae), here described as a new species, is known only from the Gariep Center, an arid region of high floristic endemism in the northwestern corner of the Northern Cape (South Africa) and adjacent parts of southern Namibia. An illustration and a distribution map are provided. Diagnostic characters include: the robust thorns that terminate the short, abbreviated lateral branches on older shoots, and the capsules that are reddish, smooth, and obconic-trigonous. The new species is related to G. tenuispina (Sonder) Szyszylowicz, a species with slender thorns with which it shares arils that are reduced to a fleshy rim at the base of the seeds.
40300887|Morphological characters support the description of four new species of Eugenia L. sect. Racemosae O. Berg (Myrtaceae) from Brazilian Atlantic Forest. The new species are described, illustrated, and compared with putatively related species. They are: E. brunneopubescens Mazine from Paran, E. capixaba Mazine from Espirito Santo, E. costatifructa Mazine from Bahia and Sergipe, and E. longibracteata Mazine from So Paulo. /// Quatro espcies novas de Eugenia L. sect. Racemosae O. Berg (Myrtaceae) da Mata Atlntica so descritas, ilustradas e comparadas com as especies relacionadas. So elas: E. brunneopubescens Mazine do Paran, E. capixaba Mazine do Esprito Santo, E. costatifructa Mazine da Bahia e Sergipe e E. long ibracteata Mazine de So Paulo.
20406099|Three new species, Euphorbia namuliensis Bruyns, E. marrupana Bruyns, and E. stenocaulis Bruyns (Euphorbiaceae), are described from the botanically poorly known northern parts of Moambique.
10.2307/3392034|Miconia celaquensis, from the montane cloud forests of Celaque National Park, Honduras, is described, illustrated, and compared with Miconia ravenii of Chiapas, Mexico, and Miconia tuerckheimii of southern Mexico and Guatemala. This new species appears to be the only Miconia restricted to Honduras and the second species of Melastomataceae endemic to the country.
20406348|The new genus Paneroa E. E. Schilling (Asteraceae, Eupatorieae) from the Mixteca Alta region in the state of Oaxaca, Mexico, is described and illustrated, and a new combination, P. stachyofolia (B. L. Robinson) E. E. Schilling, is made. The genus is characterized by its alternate, sessile leaves, 4-ribbed phyllaries, short coroniform pappus, and clavate style appendages. Molecular phylogenetic analyses show that the genus is distinct from Ageratum L., in which the species was originally described, and is closely related to other genera including Conoclinium DC. and Fleischmannia Schultz Bipontinus. It occurs in a floristic region that is characterized by numerous endemics.
10.2307/3391844| Se describe y se ilustra Miconia amplinodis, una nueva especie de Costa Rica. Su caracterstica ms sobresaliente es el poseer unas proyecciones nodales tanto en tallos como en inflorescencia. Se comenta su relacon con otras especies del seccin Cremanium, al cual se adscribe. /// Miconia amplinodis, a new species from Costa Rica, is described and illustrated. The most outstanding feature of this species is its succulent auriculate projections at branch and inflorescence nodes. The relationships of M. amplinodis to other species in section Cremanium are also discussed. 
40856291|A new species of Camellia L. (Theaceae), maiana Orel, endemic to the Da Lat Plateau in southern Vietnam, is described and illustrated. The newly described species has variable-sized, ovate to obovate leaves; 2-whorled, terminal, sessile flowers exhibiting emarginate, opaque to translucently white, finely textured petals; a compound style consisting of four parts that are fused at the base; persistent bracteoles; and a superior 4-chambered ovary. The morphological evidence supports taxonomie placement as a transitional member of Camellia sect. Stereocarpus (Pierre) Sealy.
10.2307/3391693|Se describen e ilustran tres especies nuevas de Festuca de Mxico. Festuca tancitaroensis del Cerro Tanctaro, Michoacn, pertenece al subgnero Asperifolia. Festuca coahuilana de la Sierra de la Madera, Coahuila, y F. bajacaliforniana de la Sierra de San Pedro Mrtir, Baja California, pertenecen al subgnero Festuca. /// Three new species of Festuca from Mexico are described and illustrated. Festuca tancitaroensis, from Cerro Tanctaro, Michoacn, belongs to subgenus Asperifolia. Festuca coahuilana, from the Sierra de la Madera, Coahuila, and F. bajacaliforniana, from the Sierra de San Pedro Mrtir, Baja California, belong to subgenus Festuca.
3393339| The chromosomes of two nearly sterile hybrids (Solanum quitoense x S. sessiliflorum) have been doubled by colchicine treatment and the resulting tetraploids are described as a new species, S. indianense. The parents, now grown in Ecuador under the names Puyo and Palora, are dignified with cultivar status. /// Los cromosomas de dos hbridos casi estriles (Solanum quitoense x S. sessiliflorum) han sido duplicados mediante tratamiento con colchicina y los tetraploides resultantes se describen como nueva especie, S. indianense. Los padres que se cultivan actualmente en Ecuador, bajo los nombres de Puyo y Palora, son reconocidos bajo la categora de cultivares. 
20406319|Simira walteri Silva Neto & Callado (Rubiaceae, Simireae) is described and illustrated. It grows in the Atlantic Forest region in the state of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, to an altitude of 600 m. The new species resembles S. viridiflora (Allemo & Saldanha) Steyermark, which also occurs in the Atlantic Forest in southeastern Brazil. Simira walteri mainly differs in having elliptic leaves with apices acute to slightly acuminate, base acute, tufted pocket-domatia, and a single row of colleters on the internal stipule base. /// Simira walteri Silva Neto & Callado (Rubiaceae, Simireae)  descrita e ilustrada. A espcie ocorre na Floresta Atlntica do estado do Rio de Janeiro, Brasil, at 600 m de altitude. A nova espcie assemelha-se a S. viridiflora (Allemo & Saldanha) Steyermark, que tambm ocorre na Floresta Atlntica de todo o sudeste do Brazil, da qual S. walteri difere, principalmente, por apresentar folhas elpticas, pice agudo a levemente acuminado, base aguda, domcia em bolsa com pelos e uma nica fileira de colteres na base interna da estpula.
10.2307/3391925|The following new combinations are provided for the flora of the Malay Peninsula: Amischotolype griffithii (C. B. Clarke) I. M. Turner, Amischotolype irritans (Ridley) I. M. Turner, Amischotolype monosperma (C. B. Clarke) I. M. Turner, Molineria latifolia (Dryander) Kurz var. megacarpa (Ridley) I. M. Turner, Litsea ochracea (Blume) Boerlage var. oblanceolata (Gamble) I. M. Turner, Litsea umbellata (Loureiro) Merrill var. fuscotomentosa (Meisner) I. M. Turner, Coptophyllum sylvestre (Ridley) I. M. Turner, Spermacoce pilulifera (Ridley) I. M. Turner, Spermacoce parviceps (Ridley) I. M. Turner, Pouteria glabra (Ridley) I. M. Turner, Alpinia malaccensis (Burman) Roscoe var. nobilis (Ridley) I. M. Turner, Alpinia vitellina (Lindley) Ridley var. cannaefolia (Ridley) I. M. Turner, Etlingera maingayi (Baker) R. M. Smith var. longibracteata (Holttum) I. M. Turner, Etlingera metriochilos (Griffith) R. M. Smith var. rubrostriata (Holttum) I. M. Turner, Etlingera metriochilos var. major (Holttum) I. M. Turner, Etlingera metriochilos var. petiolata (Holttum) I. M. Turner, and Etlingera metriochilos var. grandiflora (Holttum) I. M. Turner.
3393416| Taxonomic study of the Myrsinaceae for the Flora Mesoamericana treatment resulted in the discovery of three new species from Panama, which are described and illustrated: Ardisia herrerana Pipoly & Ricketson of subgenus Ardisia, and A. nana Pipoly & Ricketson and A. pseudocuspidata Pipoly & Ricketson, both of subgenus Icacorea. In addition, two new combinations within Ardisia subg. Icacorea are made: Ardisia mexicana subsp. siltepecana (Lundell) Pipoly & Ricketson and Ardisia furfuracella subsp. veraguasensis (Lundell) Pipoly & Ricketson, the latter with two heterotypic binomials newly relegated to synonymy (A. oerstediana Lundell and A. caudatifolia Lundell). Finally, we lectotypify Ardisia compressa Kunth var. mexicana Oersted, a new taxonomic synonym, and place A. jaliscensis Lundell into synonymy of A. mexicana Lundell subsp. mexicana. /// El estudio taxonmico de la familia Myrsinaceae para el proyecto Flora Mesoamericana result en el descubrimiento de tres nuevas especies panameas las cuales se describen e ilustran: Ardisia herrerana Pipoly & Ricketson del subgnero Ardisia, A. nana Pipoly & Ricketson y A. pseudocuspidata Pipoly & Ricketson, ambas del subgnero Icacorea. Adems, se proponen dos combinaciones nuevas dentro de Ardisia subg. Icacorea: Ardisia mexicana subsp. siltepecana (Lundell) Pipoly & Ricketson y Ardisia furfuracella subsp. veraguasensis (Lundell) Pipoly & Ricketson, y como novedad se relega a la sinonimia de la ltima subespecie a dos binomios heterotpicos (A. oerstediana Lundell y A. caudatifolia Lundell). Finalmente, se lectotipifica Ardisia compressa Kunth var. mexicana Oersted, un nuevo sinnimo taxonmico, y se ubica a A. jaliscensis Lundell como sinnimo de A. mexicana Lundell. 
10.2307/3393369| Habenaria pabstii, a new species (Orchideae, Orchidaceae) from the core region of the cerrado vegetation of central Brazil, is described and illustrated. The species has been collected since 1961, but was repeatedly misidentified as other taxa. The species is similar to those in section Macroceratitae Kraenzlin, but distinct by the shorter, forward-arched, free spur and the shorter, noninvolute stigmas. /// Habenaria pabstii, uma nova espcie (Orchideae, Orchidaceae) da regio nuclear do cerrado do Brasil central  descrita e ilustrada. A espcie tem sido coletada desde 1961, mas foi repetidamente identificada erradamente. A espcie  similar quelas da seo Macroceratitae, mas distinta pelo calcar mais curto, livre, projetado para frente e pelos estigmas mais curtos e no involutos. 
20406256|Cerastium L. (Caryophyllaceae), predominantly a Holarctic genus also extending to temperate and montane regions of the Southern Hemisphere, is confined in the tropical Andes of South America to non-forest, high-altitude habitats. Two species of Cerastium from the subgenus Eucerastium (Boissier) Pax, C. cuatrecasasii Sklen from the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta in Colombia and C. wilhelmianum Sklen from northern and central Ecuador, are described and illustrated. Cerastium cacananense Mschl is added to the list of the Peruvian species. /// Cerastium L. (Caryophyllaceae), un gnero predominantemente holrtico que tambin se extiende a las zonas templadas y montaosas del hemisferio sur, en los Andes tropicales de Amrica del Sur est restringido a los hbitats sin bosque de alta montaa. Se describen e ilustran dos especies nuevas de Cerastium del subgnero Eucerastium (Boissier) Pax, C. cuatrecasasii Sklen de la Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta en Colombia y C. wilhelmianum Sklen del norte y centro de Ecuador. Cerastium cacananense Mschl se aade a la lista de las especies peruanas.
40300886|The two new species Sonerila anaimudica Lundin & B. Nordenstam and S. coriacea Lundin & B. Nordenstam, from Kerala and Tamil Nadu, respectively, are recognized in connection with a taxonomic revision of the South Indian species of Sonerila Roxburgh (Melastomataceae). Descriptions, discussions, and illustrations are provided. Both species are endemic to the Western Ghats in South India. Sonerila anaimudica is a small succulent herb, and the usually single terminal flower has very obtuse or even retuse obovate petals with glandular margins. Sonerila coriacea is a somewhat woody succulent herb with a coriaceous layer on the stems, coriaceous leaves, and showy racemose flowers. Both species have restricted distribution and small populations and are regarded as Vulnerable (VU) and Endangered (EN), respectively, based on IUCN Red List criteria.
10.2307/3391963|Geonoma mooreana is described from wet forests on the Atlantic slope of western Panama.
10.2307/3393517|Primula calyptrata X. Gong & R. C. Fang (Primulaceae) is described and illustrated. Analysis of its habitat, distribution, and capsule morphology indicates that this species is a member of Primula sect. Carolinella (Helmsley) Pax, which is endemic to humid subtropical regions of Yunnan, China, northern Vietnam, and Thailand, and characterized by an unusual calyptrate capsule.
20406092|A new species of Lauraceae from Guangdong, China, Cinnamomum purpureum H. G. Ye & F. G. Wang, is described and illustrated here. The new species belongs to Cinnamomum sect. Camphora Meissner and is similar to Cinnamomum parthenoxylon (Jack) Meissner in appearance, but differs by the short trunk; the thick leathery leaves with apex obtuse or acute; the branchlets, petioles, costas, young leaves, pedicels, and peduncles purplish red; anthers quadrangular with digitate staminodia; and a fusiform ovary. A key is provided to distinguish the species of Cinnamomum in Ehuangzhang Nature Reserve, Guangdong, China.
20406162|A new species of Centaurea L. (Asteraceae), Centaurea elazigensis Kaya & Vural, from section Acrocentron (Cassini) DC. is described and illustrated from Elaz Province, Turkey. It is closely related to C. carduiformis DC. A key comparing diagnostic morphological characters of the new species and C. carduiformis is provided. The habitat and conservation status of the species are presented, and the geographical distribution of the new species and other related species is described.
10.2307/3391543|Tropaeolum orinocense from southern Venezuela, the first species in the genus recorded from the upper Orinoco basin, is described.
20406338|Rumex aeroplaniformis Eig (Polygonaceae) is shown to be a validly published and legitimate name and is neotypified. Rumex rothschildianus Aaronsohn ex Evenari is reduced to synonymy of R. aeroplaniformis and is lectotypified.
10.2307/3392081|Current research by the author on the Acanthaceae treatment for the Flora of Ecuador has resulted in the recognition of a new species from Amazonian Ecuador and Peru. Razisea ericae is described, illustrated, and compared with its closest relatives in Costa Rica, Panama, and Colombia.
3393342| Se describe e ilustra Prockia krusei (Salicaceae), una especie nueva del estado de Guerrero, Mxico. Se discute su ubicacin en los gneros Banara, Hasseltia, Hasseltiopsis, Macrohasseltia, Neosprucea, Olmediella, Pleuranthodendron, Pineda y Prockia. /// Prockia krusei (Salicaceae), a new species from the state of Guerrero, Mexico, is described and illustrated. Its position relative to the genera Banara, Hasseltia, Hasseltiopsis, Macrohasseltia, Neosprucea, Olmediella, Pleuranthodendron, Pineda, and Prockia is discussed. 
20406342|Recent collections of Polypodiaceae in Brazil reveal a new species of Ceradenia L. E. Bishop, C. itatiaiensis Labiak & Condack, that appears to be a narrow endemic to the Itatiaia National Park. It resembles C. albidula (Baker) L. E. Bishop, but differs mainly by having setae on the laminar margins. Descriptions and illustrations are provided, as well as comments on the most closely related species.
43289107|Boechera calcarea Dudkin, a new species of Brassicaceae from the Primorsky Territory, Russia, is described and illustrated. In morphology the new species, B. calcarea, resembles B. falcata (Turcz.) Al-Shehbaz, but the latter can be differentiated by the narrow fruit, pubescent stem, and smaller flowers and seeds. Corolla color in B. calcarea is pale lavender, whereas in B. falcata it is pink-violet. Boechera calcarea is distinguished by its pale lavender petals, forked trichomes, and larger fruit. Based on its distribution in the Chandalaz (Lozovy) mountain range, the new taxon is likely an obligate calciphile.
10.2307/3393387|Delphinium hillcoatiae var. pilocarpum Q. E. Yang & Y. Luo (Ranunculaceae) is described as a new variety from Xizang, China. It differs from the typical variety by having densely puberulent ovaries.
23018500|Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie de Veracruz, Mxico, Calathea leonoriae Lascur., H. Oliva & Avendao (Marantaceae). Esta nueva especie es morfolgicamente cercana a C. ovandensis Matuda, slo conocida de Mxico, pero difiere tanto en el tamao de la planta y el hbito de crecimiento, como en el tamao y forma en que emerge la inflorescencia. Calathea leonoriae Lascur., H. Oliva & Avendao (Marantaceae) is described and illustrated as a new species from Veracruz, Mexico. It is morphologically close to C. ovandensis Matuda, which is only known from Mexico, differing only in plant size and growth habit, as well as in the size and the way in which the inflorescence emerges.
10.2307/3393062|A new species of spider-lily, Hymenocallis franklinensis, is described in the lower central Florida panhandle. It is endemic to the lower Ochlockonee River drainage. The new species is distinguished from other Hymenocallis by its narrowly liguliform leaves, lanceolate scape bracts that distinctly taper in the distal half, subglobose fruits, and its chromsome numbers of 2n = 43, 44. A key is provided to distinguish among similar species.
20406147|Sinojackia huangmeiensis J. W. Ge & X. H. Yao, a new species of Sinojackia Hu from Hubei Province, central China, is described and illustrated. It is similar to S. xylocarpa Hu. The new species differs from S. xylocarpa, however, in its smaller flowers with broadly ovate petals and smaller fruit bearing a papillate short beak.
10.2307/3391542|Solanum paraibanum is a new species from the wet forest of northeastern Brazil; it is found only in Joo Pessoa, State of Paraba. The new taxon is described and illustrated, and its closest relationships are discussed.
10.2307/3391901|A new species, Acanthosyris annonagustata C. Ulloa & P. Jrgensen, from Napo, Ecuador, is described and illustrated. This species is characterized by its golden brown puberulent inflorescence and fruit. The plant is used in local medicine, and the fruits taste like Annona and are eaten by monkeys. In Ecuador, Acanthosyris is also represented by A. glabrata (Stapf) Stauffer from the dry western forests, a tree that we are also reporting for the first time from Peru. /// Se describe e ilustra la nueva especie Acanthosyris annonagustata C. Ulloa & P. Jrgensen (Santalaceae) de la provincia de Napo, Ecuador, que se caracteriza por tener las inflorescencias y frutos pardo-dorado puberulentos. La planta es medicinal, los frutos tienen sabor a Annona y son comidos por monos. En el Ecuador Acanthosyris tambin est representado por A. glabrata (Stapf) Stauffer, un rbol de los bosques secos occidentales que adems se cita por primera vez para Per.
10.2307/3391497|The new combination Jaltomata weberbaueri (Dammer) Mione is based on Saracha weberbaueri Dammer; this species resides in Peru, Dept. Ancash, between 3,300 and 3,700 m elevation. The new combination Jaltomata aspera (Ruz & Pavn) Mione is based on Atropa aspera Ruz & Pavn; Hebecladus asperus (Ruz & Pavn) Miers is a synonym. This species resides in Peru, Dept. Lima, from near sea-level to 1,800 m, and is rare, likely due to habitat destruction by humans.
10.2307/3392101|Two species of Panicum, P. sendulskyii and P. nutabundum, and a new species of the genus Urochloa, U. decidua, are described, illustrated, and compared with putatively related species. Panicum sendulskyii belongs to subgenus Dichanthelium and P. nutabundum to section Parvifolia of Panicum. Urochloa decidua is an endemic of campos rupestres of Bahia, Brazil.
10.2307/3391959|Symphyodon pennatulus (Dixon) Dixon from Southeast Asia is transferred to the genus Homalia of the Neckeraceae (Musci). A key to the five species and one variety of Homalia is provided.
3393392| Two new cauliflorous species of Daphnopsis (Thymelaeaceae) from French Guiana and Surinam are described, illustrated, and their relationships discussed. A key to the species of Thymelaeaceae in French Guiana and Surinam is provided. Daphnopsis granitica Pruski & Barringer and D. granvillei Barringer grow on the granitic inselbergs of northern to southwestern French Guiana and adjacent Surinam. They are each characterized by brachyblasts from older stems, the absence of petaloid appendages, and the presence of orange fruits. Daphnopsis granitica is distinctive because of its narrowly oblanceolate leaves, while D. granvillei has broader, oblanceolate to obovate leaves. /// Se describe y ilustra dos nuevas especies caulifloras de Daphnopsis (Thymelaeaceae) de la Guyana Francesa y Surinam y se discute sus relaciones. Se presenta una clave para las especies de Thymelaeaceae de la Guyana Francesa y Surinam. Daphnopsis granitica Pruski & Barringer y D. granvillei Barringer crecen sobre lajas granticas del norte al suroeste de la Guyana Francesa y la regin adyacente de Surinam. Ambas especies se caracterizan por tener braquiblastos de los tallos viejos, por la ausencia de apndices petaloides y por la presencia de frutos anaranjados. Daphnopsis granitica se diferencia por tener las hojas angostamente oblanceoladas, mientras que D. granvillei tiene las hojas ms anchas y oblanceoladas a obovadas. 
20406129|Polygala riograndensis Ldtke & Miotto (Polygalaceae) is a new species from the Brazilian flora. This species is included in the subgenus Polygala L., which has the largest number of species in the Brazilian territory. Polygala riograndensis is closely related to P. campestris Gardner, but it is set apart mainly by the stems sinuate, capsules winged, leaves petiolate and glabrous, and by the crest of the keel with 6 to 7 lobes that are simple or bifid. This species was recognized during the revision of the genus Polygala in Rio Grande do Sul state. Morphological description, illustration, and observations about habitat and distribution are presented. /// Polygala riograndensis Ldtke & Miotto (Polygalaceae)  uma nova espcie descrita para a flora brasileira. Esta espcie est includa no subgnero Polygala L. que abrange o maior nmero de espcies no territrio brasileiro. Polygala riograndensis  afim de P. campestris Gardner, se diferenciando desta por apresentar os caules sinuosos, cpsula alada, folhas pecioladas e glabras e crista da carena dividida em 6 a 7 lobos. Esta espcie foi reconhecida durante a reviso taxonmica do gnero Polygala no Rio Grande do Sul. So fornecidas descrio morfolgica, ilustrao e observaes sobre hbitats e distribuio.
20406078|Two new species, Carex bijiangensis S. Y. Liang & S. R. Zhang and C. obliquitruncata Y. C. Tang & S. Y. Liang, are described and illustrated. Both species are found in China and belong to Carex sect. Racemosae G. Don by having typically female lateral spikes, a gynecandrous terminal spike, dark female glumes, and three stigmas.
3393324|A new species of Asarum L., A. campaniflorum Wang Yong & Wang Q. F. (Aristolochiaceae), is described from Hubei Province, China. It belongs to Asarum sect. Heterotropa (Morren & Decaisne) Braun and is readily distinguishable in having simple bell-shaped flowers and little ornamentation of the calyx. A chromosome count of 2n = 26 is recorded.
23018497|The generic name Darcyanthus Hunz. (Solanaceae) was not validly published. The present paper provides validation both for the generic name and for the single included species, D. spruceanus (Hunz.) Hunz.
10.2307/3393247|Lilium pyrophilum M. W. Skinner & Sorrie is a new taxon from the Sandhills region of the Atlantic Coastal Plain, where it is known from 16 counties in the Carolinas and adjacent Virginia. It occurs within the longleaf pine ecosystem in sandy, wet to dry ecotonal situations such as streamheads, seeps, swampy streams, and wet, maintained powerlines. Lilium pyrophilum is most closely allied to L. superbum but is allopatrically distributed and confined to a restricted hahitat. Compared to L. superbum it blooms later, is smaller, has fewer and smaller flowers with slightly longer tubes, and it has shorter and relatively broader leaves that are ascending and concentrated in fewer whorls toward the bottom of the stem. Frequent fires are essential for habitat maintenance in natural settings, and thus the Latin epithet pyrophilum (= fire loving) is used for the new taxon. We suggest the common name Sandhills lily for this rare lily, and urge its fullest protection.
10.2307/3391690|Pleuropogon Robert Brown subg. Lophochlaenus (C. G. Nees von Esenbeck) But is proposed to accommodate all species in the genus other than P. sabinii. Pleuropogon davyi Benson is reduced to P. californicus var. davyi (Benson) But.
10.2307/3391696|A new Panamanian species, Selysia bidentata, is described and illustrated, and a key to and a synopsis of Selysia are provided. The new species is closely related to S. smithii, which occurs from Colombia to Peru in the Andes. This species raises the number of species in Selysia to four.
10.2307/3391653|Una nueva especie de Metteniusa es descrita e ilustrada: M. cogolloi. Tambin se estudia e ilustra la anatoma de la hoja; una de las ms llamativas diferencias es la presencia de una hipodermis, no encontrada en las otras especies del gnero. /// A new Metteniusa species is described and illustrated: M. cogolloi. In the study of the leaf anatomy, one of the more important differences is the presence of the hypodermis, not found in the other species.
40856274|Clidemia fluminensis Baumgratz & D'El Rei Souza (section Staphidium (Naudin) Griseb., Melastomataceae, Miconieae), a new species from Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, is described and illustrated. The new taxon occurs in Poo das Antas Biological Reserve in alluvial forest of the Atlantic Forest ecosystem. The new species is distinguished mainly by the scandent habit, membranous leaves, terminal inflorescences, and flowers with yellow petals with an obtuse and apiculate apex. It is related to C. conglomerata DC. and C. involucrala DC, sharing the glomeruliform inflorescence, the stamen connective not prolonged or appendaged, and the pilose ovary apex.
10.2307/3391815|A rare new species of the Pacific genus Phyllostegia, P. renovans, is described. It is unique in the genus in that the stems resume vegetative growth after flowering. It is relatively rare, with 23 small populations known only from three adjacent valleys on the northeastern part of the island of Kaua'i, Hawaiian Islands. A new combination is also provided for the Wai'anae Mountains, O'ahu, endangered endemic variety of Phyllostegia parviflora now known from only one extant population of about 20 individuals.
20406331|Pandanus sermolliana Callmander & Buerki (Pandanaceae) is described from humid forests in the Galoka mountain chain in northwestern Madagascar. The new species can be easily distinguished from the other members of the genus it most closely resembles, P. insuetus Huynh and P. perrieri Martelli, by several morphological characters, including drupes that are incompletely fused, with each of the dome-like carpels separated from the base of the pileus, and stigmas that are subvertical or rarely subhorizontal, slightly spinescent, and raised on an incompletely united base. This distinctive species is rare and is classified as Critically Endangered based on IUCN Red List criteria. /// Une nouvelle espce Pandanus sermolliana Callmander & Buerki (Pandanaceae) est dcrite provenant des montagnes du Galoka dans les forts denses humides du Nord Ouest de Madagascar. La nouvelle espce peut tre facilement diffrencie des espces affines, P. insuetus Huynh et P. perrieri Martelli, par ses caractres morphologiques incluant ses drupes  carpelles incompltement souds ds la base du pilus en forme de dme et ses stigmates subverticaux, rarement sub-horizontaux, lgrement spinescents, surlevs sur une base incompltement soude. Cette espce rare et unique est srieusement menace. Elle est considre comme Critiquement en Danger selon les Critres de l'UICN.
27765242|Following molecular phylogenetic evidence that the Galpagos (Ecuador) endemic genus Darwiniothamnus Harling (Asteraceae, Astereae) is biphyletic, with supporting evidence from several morphological traits, the species D. alternifolius is transferred to the genus Erigeron L. as E. alternifolius (Lawesson & Adsersen) N. Andrus & Tye.
10.2307/3393270|Tricalistra, a monotypic genus comprising T. ochracea, and Gonioscypha muricata were found not to differ markedly from Tupistra. They share many essentially similar characteristics in both vegetative and reproductive organs. Tricalistra and G. muricata are therefore included in Tupistra as Tupistra ochracea (Ridley) N. Tanaka and T. muricata (Gagnepain) N. Tanaka, respectively.
10.2307/3392110|Chiloscyphus sect. Novae-zeelandii, sect. Semiteres, sect. Spiniferi, and sect. Hemispini are described as new. Chiloscyphus subg. Connati, subg. Microlophocolea, and subg. Cyanolophocolea are new combinations.
3393340|The molecular support for current generic concepts in Myricaceae has made it necessary to make new combinations in Morella. Morella comprises approximately 47 species found in the Old and New World tropics. Three new combinations are made here: Morella adenophora, M. nana, and M. punctata. Morella nana is lectotypified, and a new species, M. rivas-martinezii, is described.
10.2307/3391441|Studies of the pollination biology of the southern African species of Lapeirousia subg. Lapeirousia have indicated the need for several taxonomic changes in the alliance. Lapeirousia simulans is a new species, until now confused with L. arenicola, a fairly widespread species of the Cape west coast: L. simulans occurs sympatrically with L. arenicola, but subtle differences in flower patterning, capsule and seed morphology, and bract size separate the two. New evidence indicates that varieties spinosa and tenuis of L. divaricata should both be treated as separate species, and they are recognized here as L. spinosa and L. tenuis. The former is an allopatric vicariant of L. divaricata, differing in its compact growth form and larger flowers. Lapeirousia tenuis, however, appears to be more closely related to L. dolomitica, from which it differs in flower size, tepal color, and length of the perianth tube. Examination of living plants matching the type of L. macrospatha indicates that the species was incorrectly treated as conspecific with L. barklyi. The two differ consistently in flower color and markings, the length of the perianth tube, and the shape of the floral bracts, and are most likely not immediately related. Lastly, populations of the widespread L. pyramidalis with a dark blue, purple, or red perianth, a longer perianth tube, and odorless flowers are segregated here as subspecies regalis. Subspecies regalis is most likely adapted to a different pollinator than subspecies pyramidalis, which has a pale blue, pink, or white perianth, a shorter perianth tube, and a strong floral odor.
10.2307/3391374|A synoptic review of Pilocosta is presented to facilitate identification and comparison of a new species, P. nubicola, which is described and illustrated. An original chromosome count of n = 11 is reported for this species, together with updated geographic and taxonomic notes and a revised key to the five known species in the genus. Based on an evaluation of recorded chromosome counts, x = 11 is established as the base chromosome number of Pilocosta.
10.2307/3391790|Two new large-leaved species of Tovomita are described: T. auriculata from Venezuelan and Peruvian Amazon lowland forests, and T. foldatsii from Venezuelan Amazon lowland forests. The morphological relationships to related species are discussed. /// Se describen dos especies nuevas de Tovomita: T. auriculata de los bosques de tierras bajas de la Amazona de Per y Venezuela y T. foldatsii de los bosques de tierras bajas de la Amazona venezolana. Se discuten sus relaciones morfolgicas con especies afines.
10.2307/3393002|Dimorphostemon is reduced to synonymy of Dontostemon, and the combined genus consists of 10 species distributed primarily in China, adjacent Russia, and Mongolia. The new combinations Dontostemon pinnatifidus and D. pinnatifidus subsp. linearifolius are proposed, and detailed descriptions and distributions of the two taxa are given. A key to all species of Dontostemon is presented.
3393435|Vriesea flava, a new species from the Atlantic Forest of Brazil, is decribed and illustrated. It is distinguished in Vriesea sect. Vriesea (Bromeliaceae) from its closest relatives V. paraibica, V. eltoniana, V. maxoniana, and V. laxa mainly by the color and dimensions of its floral bracts and relative position of the stamens.
10.2307/3391674|Five new species of ferns, Blechnum anthracinum, B. werffii, Saccoloma squamosum, Polypodium pinnatissimum, and Tectaria pubens, are described as a result of work on general fern identification at MO and for the pteridophyte volume of Flora Mesoamericana.
10.2307/3392187|Three species of Celastraceae, each represented by many collections from Costa Rica, are compared to near relatives and found to be new: Gymnosporia haberiana Hammel, disjunct from Mexico and Costa Rica; Maytenus recondita Hammel, of Costa Rica and Panama; and Crossopetalum enervium Hammel, of Costa Rica. The South American Gymnosporia magnifolia (Loesener) Lundell is here confirmed as a synonym of G. urbaniana (Loesener) Liesner, and Crossopetalum eucymosum (Loesener & Pitter) Lundell is placed in synonymy under C. parviflorum (Hemsley) Lundell. Keys are provided for all accepted neotropical species of Gymnosporia, and for all Costa Rican species of Crossopetalum and Maytenus.
20406130|A new species of Pecluma M. G. Price, P. barituensis O. Martnez & de la Sota, is described from material collected from the northwestern forests and mountain woods in Argentina. This taxon is related to Pecluma oranensis (de la Sota) de la Sota, from which it differs with its pinnae narrower at mid-rachis, thereby appearing farther apart, and its auriculiform basal pinnae. /// Se describe y se ilustra una nueva especie de Pecluma, P. barituensis O. Martnez & de la Sota, sobre material proveniente de las selvas y bosques montanos del noroeste argentino. Este taxn es afn a Pecluma oranensis (de la Sota) de la Sota, del que difiere principalmente por sus pinnas medias ms delgadas y apareciendo as ms distanciadas y las basales auriculiformes.
10.2307/3391954|Three new species of Cestrum, C. tillettii, C. jaramillanum, and C. ruizteranianum, are newly described from Venezuela. Cestrum tomentosum L. f. and C. strigilatum Ruiz & Pavn have been identified as the correct names for two species for which many names have been proposed, and synonymies for these two species are presented.
3393404| A new species, Anthurium leonii E. G. Gonalves from Minas Gerais State in southeastern Brazil, is described, illustrated, and compared with A. solitarium Schott, the most similar species. Anthurium leonii belongs to section Pachyneurium Schott series Pachyneurium (Schott) Croat and seems to occur only above 1100 m elevation in the Capara National Park. This new species is so far known from the type locality and surrounding areas. /// Uma nova espcie de Anthurium (A. leonii E. G. Gonalves), proveniente do estado de Minas Gerais, sudeste do Brasil,  descrita, ilustrada e comparada com A. solitarium Schott, a espcie mais similar. Anthurium leonii pertence  seo Pachyneurium Schott, srie Pachyneurium (Schott) Croat e parece apenas ocorrer em altitudes acima de 1100 m, no Parque Nacional do Capara. At onde se conhece, esta espcie  apenas conhecida para a localidade tpica e reas vizinhas. 
10.2307/3393164|Rhodamnia longisepala N. Snow & A. J. Ford is described from the Windsor Tableland region of northeastern Queensland, Australia. All known collections occur in the Chowchilla Logging Area of State Forest Reserve 144. Since only nine plants are known over an area of 1 km<sup>2</sup>, the species is considered highly vulnerable. The new species is distinguished from others in Rhodamnia by the persistent and erect subulate sepal lobes of the fruit. The fruit droops at maturity, is covered by densely villous to hirsute hairs, and lacks a reddish stage en route to its purplish black mature color. Domatia are present on the abaxial leaf surface where the major lateral nerves join the midnerve near the petiole. Rhodamnia longisepala somewhat resembles R. rubescens in leaf morphology and pubescence, but the latter species is far more common and is distributed from southeastern Queensland to southeastern New South Wales.
3393409|Carex hangzhouensis C. Z. Zheng, X. F. Jin & B. Y. Ding, a new species of Cyperaceae from eastern China, is described and illustrated, and the distinguishing characters are discussed. Owing to its peculiar habit, Carex hangzhouensis does not fit into an existing section. Therefore, based upon this type, the new Carex sect. Hangzhouenses is identified, and a key to this and the related sections in eastern and southern Asia is provided.
3393499| Two new species are described (R. cordatachenia and R. saxisavannicola) in Rhynchospora sect. Tenues Kkenthal from northeastern South America (Guianas). A key to the species of R. sect. Tenues in the Guianas is given, and illustrations are provided for the new species. 
20406161|Two new combinations, Saltugilia splendens (Douglas ex H. Mason & A. D. Grant) L. A. Johnson and S. splendens subsp. grantii (Brand) L. A. Johnson, are proposed for taxa transferred from Gilia Ruiz & Pavn on the basis of phylogenetic relationship. The affinities of G. scopulorum M. E. Jones, G. stellata A. Heller, and G. yorkii Shevock & A. G. Day, three species that have been allied with Saltugilia V. E. Grant & A. D. Grant when treated as a section of Gilia, are reevaluated.
10.2307/3393147|This paper recognizes the genus Neomarica Sprague (Iridaceae), contradicting the treatment by Ravenna placing the genus in synonymy under Trimezia Salisbury ex Herbert. Neomarica is distinguished by its caulinar system as a rhizome or corm, equitant and conduplicate leaves, and conduplicate scapes with a leaflike bract in the apex, which apparently is a sterile prolongation of it; Trimezia is characterized by the exclusive presence of corms, spiraled disposition of cataphylls and leaves, and terete scapes. As a result of this work, nine new combinations and five new synonyms are proposed.
27765191|Salvia sericeotomentosa Rechinger f. (Lamiaceae) was first collected by A. Eig and M. Zohary in 1932 and was described in 1952 by K. H. Rechinger, but since that time it has not been collected again from its type locality. Among specimens collected from the Amanos Mountains near Hatay Province, Turkey, in 2006, the taxon was rediscovered on the basis of two different populations growing at low altitudes. These populations provide the type for the new variety S. sericeotomentosa var. hatayica Celep & Doan, which differs from the typical variety by having densely sericeous-tomentose and short glandular-pilose inflorescences. A full description of the new variety is also provided, as well as its conservation assessment.
10.2307/3393087|Piptocarpha geraldsmithii H. Robinson, P. klugii G. Lom. Smith ex H. Robinson, and P. vasquezii H. Robinson are described as new from northern Peru and southern Ecuador. The first relates to an otherwise strictly Guyana Highland group of species, and the third has terminal panicles with uniquely formed urn-shaped heads.
20406179|Three new species of Davilla Vandelli from Amazonas, Bahia, and Par states, Brazil, are described and illustrated. Davilla bahiana Aymard resembles D. cuspidulata Martius but mostly differs by its leaves coriaceous, papillate on the upper surface, with lateral nerves 11 to 19, and carpels strigose at the apex. Davilla bilobata Aymard is related to D. grandifolia Moricand but can be distinguished by its tertiary nerves deeply areolate on the lower surface, inflorescence shorter (to ca. 5.5 cm), the shape and pubescence of the sepals, and the petals bilobed. Davilla neei Aymard was collected inside the study plots of the Biological Dynamics of Forest Fragments Project in central Amazonian lowland forest; it is similar to D. kunthii St. Hilaire but differs by its wider leaves (7--)15 cm long, the margins coarsely serrate, short inflorescences (only 10-11 cm long), and carpels densely hispid-incanous. Davilla bilobata is a distinctive species for its bilobed petals in a genus with otherwise predominantly entire petals.
20406194|Typifications and new combinations are provided for Boraginaceae from the Mesoamerica region in advance of the treatment for Flora Mesoamericana. In addition, the recognition of the genus Varronia P. Browne as separate from Cordia L. requires new names for various species to be treated in several floristic projects. Cordia skutchii I. M. Johnston is lectotypified, V. tarodaea J. S. Miller is a new name presented for C. longifolia A. DC., and the following new combinations are made: V. andreana (J. Estrada) J. S. Miller, V. buddleoides (Rusby) J. S. Miller, V. bullulata (Killip ex J. Estrada & Garca-Barriga) J. S. Miller, V. dardani (Taroda) J. S. Miller, V. eggersii (K. Krause) J. S. Miller, V. guanacastensis (Standley) J. S. Miller, V. guaranitica (Chodat & Hassler) J. S. Miller, V. harleyi (Taroda) J. S. Miller, V. intonsa (I. M. Johnston) J. S. Miller, V. lauta (I. M. Johnston) J. S. Miller, V. leucocephala (Moricand) J. S. Miller, V. leucomalloides (Taroda) J. S. Miller, V. linnaei (Stearn) J. S. Miller, V. macrodonta (Killip) J. S. Miller, V. roraimae (I. M. Johnston) J. S. Miller, V. sangrinaria (Gaviria) J. S. Miller, V. setigera (I. M. Johnston) J. S. Miller, V. stenostachya (Killip ex Gaviria) J. S. Miller, V. steyermarkii (Gaviria) J. S. Miller, and V. urticifolia (Chamisso) J. S. Miller.
3393456|Two new generic names (Catolobus and Pseudoturritis) and four new combinations (Boechera falcata, C. pendula, P. turrita, and Rhammatophyllum fruticulosum) are proposed. Morphological characters supporting the assignment of seven Eurasian species of Arabis to Boechera, Catolobus, Fourraea, Pseudoturritis, Rhammatophyllum, and Turritis are discussed in connection with molecular or cytological data. A key to these Eurasian segregates of Arabis is presented.
3393486|Styrax uxpanapensis, a new species of Styrax series Valvatae (Styracaceae) from the Uxpanapa-Chimalapa region in the states of Oaxaca and Veracruz, Mexico, is described and illustrated. The stamen morphology of this lowland humid tropical forest species appears to ally it with two Andean cloud forest species. A section of a key to Mexican and Mesoamerican species of Styrax, as modified to incorporate S. uxpanapensis, is included.
10.2307/3391590|A new species of Cyclopogon, C. dressleri Szlachetko from Panama, is described as new. It differs from the closely related C. ovalifolium Presl in having a fleshy winged isthmus and hornlike appendices on the basal lip auricles.
20406146|A new species, Petrocodon ferrugineus Y. G. Wei (Gesneriaceae) from Guangxi Province in southern China, is described and illustrated. Its relationship with Petrocodon dealbatus Hance is discussed. The new species is distinguished by the dense villous pubescence of the leaves, bracts, and plant axes; filaments that are linear, glabrous, curved, and somewhat expanded in the middle; and fruits with 4-loculicidal, but not septicidally dehiscent, capsules.
10.2307/3391684|Justicia parguazensis Wasshausen is the correct name in Justicia for Chaetochlamys wurdackii Leonard.
23259425|An investigation of taxonomic diversity in the North American members of Schoenoplectus (Rchb.) Palla and Schoenoplectiella Lye indicates the need to relocate species and varieties from Schoenoplectus sect. Actaeogeton (Rchb.) J. Raynal to Schoenoplectiella. A transfer of four taxa is proposed here: Schoenoplectiella purshiana (Fernald) Lye var. williamsii (Fernald) Shiels & Monfils, S. smithii (A. Gray) Shiels & Monfils var. smithii, S. smithii var. leviseta (Fassett) Shiels & Monfils, and S. smithii var. setosa (Fernald) Shiels & Monfils.
10.2307/3391969|The new taxa Coussarea linearis C. M. Taylor, Palicourea macarthurorum C. M. Taylor, and P. quadrifolia subsp. leticiana C. M. Taylor are described based largely on material collected during floristic inventories of several biological reserves in northwestern Amazonia.
40960842|Pedicularis obliquigaleata W. B. Yu & H. Wang (Orobanchaceae) is described and illustrated from the Hengduan Mountains, in Yunnan Province, southwestern China. This new species was found in alpine meadows and along the edge of Abies Mill, forest. The new taxon is placed in Pedicularis ser. Dissectae H. L. Li and is similar to P. souliei Franch. from Sichuan Province. Pedicularis obliquigaleata differs by having densely gray pubescent stems; a pinnatipartite leaf with segments that are triangularovate to oblong-ovate with dentate margins; and flowers with two calyx lobes, a bent galea, semicircular beak, and a purple or rose-red corolla lower lip with a subtruncate middle lobe. Pollen and seed coat surface micromorphology of P. obliquigaleata were examined by scanning electron microscopy, and the chromosome number and karyotype were determined as 2n = 16 = 2m + 12sm + 2st.
10.2307/3391776|A new species of Albizia, A. mainaea, is described from western Madagascar and compared with previously known species.
10.2307/3391536|A new species from Mexico, Dioscorea mesoamericana, is described and illustrated. The new species is distinguished from D. pumicicola by its shorter pistillate inflorescences, the amorphous and geometrically fissured bark on the rhizome, and by the different geographical and altitudinal distribution. A key to separate the species, geographical distribution, ecological notes, and a detailed description of nervation patterns are given.
20406239|During preparation of a treatment of Acanthaceae for the Flora of China, it was determined that Pararuellia alata H. P. Tsui from Yunnan, China, was not validly published because the herbarium in which the type is conserved was not specified. The name is herein validated with the herbarium now specified. The species can be distinguished from other Chinese Pararuellia Bremekamp by its winged inflorescence rachis.
10.2307/3393122|Trichocolea elegans Lehmann is transferred to the genus Leiomitra Lindberg, because gynoecia have been found in several specimens with a coelocaule, perianth, and thin calyptra. Leiomitra smaragdina Hssel sp. nov. also belongs to this genus as confirmed through female specimens. Both species, present in Chile and in Argentina, are described and illustrated, with the distinguishing characters emphasized. /// Trichocolea elegans Lehmann se transfiere al gnero Leiomitra Lindberg porque se encontraron ginoecios en varios especmenes con celocaule, periantio y una delgada caliptra. Leiomitra smaragdina Hssel sp. nov. pertenece tambin a este gnero como fue confirmado a travs de especmenes femeninos. Se describen e ilustran ambas especies, presentes en Chile y en Argentina, con nfasis en sus caracteres distintivos.
3393347|Changes in succulent Cynanchum L. species are needed for the Flora of Somalia account of Apocynaceae subfamily Asclepiadoideae. The following changes are proposed within the tribe Asclepiadeae, subtribe Cynanchinae. Cynanchum viminale subsp. crassicaule, another subspecific taxon in the C. viminale complex, is described as new, based on morphological, ecological, and molecular evidence. Its chromosome number is specified with 2n = 22. The new combination Cynanchum viminale subsp. stipitaceum is proposed, and Sarcostemma andongense Hiern is recognized as a new synonym of C. viminale subsp. stipitaceum.
3393432| A new species, Senecio nemiae, from Sierra Grande, Ro Negro, Argentina, is described and illustrated. Senecio nemiae most closely resembles S. adenotrichius from Chile, but is clearly different by the shorter leaves without auricles and smaller capitula, with a calyculus of few bracts and length shorter than the involucre. A new status, Senecio sect. Senecio ser. Corymbosi subser. Adenotrichi, is also proposed to accommodate this taxon in the previous classification of Senecio for Argentina. Included is a key to those species of Senecio subser. Adenotrichi with glabrous achenes. 
10.2307/3392157|Morphological, allozyme, and cpDNA (rbcL) sequence data provide evidence for the distinctness of Spirodela punctata from species in both Lemna and Spirodela (Lemnaceae). We propose the recognition of a new genus, Landoltia, to better reflect current phylogenetic concepts in the Lemnaceae. Landoltia is distinguished by its reduced frond prophyllum, frond nerves (3 to 7), roots (up to 7), root tracheids, external anther locules, and also by well-supported molecular evidence provided by allozymes and cpDNA sequences. The new combination Landoltia punctata is made to accommodate this taxonomic modification.
10.2307/3393228|The genera Koeiea and Prionotrichon are reduced to the synonymy of Rhammatophyllum. The new combinations R. afghanicum, R. erysimoides, R. flexuosum, R. gaudanense, R. ghoranum, R. kamelinii, and R. pseudoparrya are proposed. A key to all nine species of the central Asian Rhammatophyllum is presented.
10.2307/3391993|The tribal position of Hypocalyptus Thunberg in the Fabaceae subfamily Papilionoideae is investigated. A phylogenetic analysis in which the Australian Bossiaeeae and Mirbelieae, African Podalyrieae and Crotalarieae, South American Sophoreae and Millettieae, and northern temperate Thermopsideae and Genisteae are included, indicates that there is no direct relationship between Hypocalyptus and any of the tribes. It is therefore proposed that the monotypic subtribe Hypocalyptinae Yakovlev be raised to tribal level as Hypocalypteae (Yakovlev) A. L. Schutte. A description of the tribe is presented, followed by an enumeration of the three species recognized.
10.2307/3391394|A new species of Podostemaceae, Marathrum rubrum, from Jalisco, Mexico, is described and illustrated. Capillaceous leaf divisions and red leaf color distinguish M. rubrum from other species. /// Se describe e ilustra una especie nueva de la familia Podostemaceae (Marathrum rubrum) del estado de Jalisco, Mxico. Las divisiones capiliformes y el color rojizo de las hojas distinguen a M. rubrum de las otras especies.
10.2307/3391688|Julian A. Steyermark had completed an extensive study of the Bombacaceae of southern Venezuela, but died before he was able to complete a treatment for the Flora of the Venezuelan Guayana. This paper lays the final groundwork for publication of this treatment and includes two new species, Catostemma durifolius and Pachira yapacanae, and nineteen new combinations in Pachira, into which all Venezuelan Guayanan species of Pochota, Bombacopsis, and Rhodognaphalopsis are placed.
20406035|Nine new Neotropical species of Psychotria subg. Psychotria (Rubiaceae, Psychotrieae) are described and illustrated here: P. areolata of montane western Colombia has previously been confused with P. rugulosa Kunth; P. ceronii of eastern Andean slopes in Ecuador and Peru has previously been confused with P. acreana K. Krause; P. convergens of montane Costa Rica, Panama, Colombia, Ecuador, and northern Peru has previously been confused with P. sylvivaga Standley; P. cutucuana of montane Ecuador has previously been confused with Notopleura; P. esmeraldana of coastal Ecuador and Colombia has previously been confused with P. orosiana Standley; P. montivaga of montane Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru has previously been confused with P. alba Ruiz & Pavn and P. carthagenensis Jacquin, and replaces these species at higher elevations; P. paravillosa of Amazonian Ecuador and Peru has previously been confused with P. villosa Ruiz & Pavn; P. puyoana of eastern Andean slopes of Ecuador is notable for its subsessile, cordate, relatively large leaves; and P. ucumariana of montane Colombia and Ecuador has previously been confused with P. rimbachii Standley.
40856279|TWO new species and one new variety of Chascolytrum Desv. (Poaceae) are described and illustrated. Chascolytrum latifolium Essi, Souza-Chies & Longhi-Wagner and C. juergensii var. angustilemma Essi, Souza-Chies & Longhi-Wagner occur in the southern Brazilian highlands, while C. altimontanum Essi, Souza-Chies & Longhi-Wagner occurs in the Bolivian highlands. Chascolytrum latifolium is related to subaristatum (Lam.) Desv., but differs mainly by the wider leaf blades and by some characteristics of the palea. Chascolytrum altimontanum is related to C. paleapiliferum (Parodi) Matthei and subaristatum, the main differences being the presence of flattened trichomes at the lemma base and the shape of the spikelets. Specimens of all these new taxa were included in a parallel molecular analysis, with the results supporting the new taxa as genetically divergent from the closest morphologically related species. In addition, Briza juergensii Hack, is transferred to Chascolytrum for the new combination C. juergensii (Hack.) Essi, Souza-Chies & Longhi-Wagner. Duas espcies novas e uma variedade de Chascolytrum so descritas e ilustradas nesse artigo. Chascolytrum latifolium Essi, Souza-Chies & Longhi-Wagner e juergensii var. angustilemma Essi, Souza-Chies & Longhi-Wagner ocorrem em campos de altitude do sul do Brasil, enquanto C. altimontanum Essi, Souza-Chies & Longhi-Wagner ocorre em regies de altitude da Bolvia. Chascolytrum latifolium assemelha-se a C. subaristatum (Lam.) Desv., diferindo desse principalmente pelas lminas foliares mais largas e por algumas caractersticas da plea. Chascolytrum altimontanum assemelha-se paleapiliferum (Parodi) Matthei e subaristatum, distinguindo-se destas principalmente pela presena de tricomas achatados na base do lema e pela forma das espiguetas. Exemplares de todos esses taxa foram includos em anlise molecular paralela, sendo que os resultados corroboram os novos taxa como geneticamente divergentes das espcies mais semelhantes morfologicamente. Alm disso, Briza juergensii Hack,  transferida para Chascolytrum para a nova combinao juergensii (Hack.) Essi, Souza-Chies & Longhi-Wagner.
3393410|Passiflora xishuangbannaensis, a new species endemic to Yunnan Province, China, is described and illustrated. It is distinguished from other members of Passiflora supersection Disemma by being completely glabrous, having one to two flowers per node, thickened coronal filaments that are brown to purple at the base, deeply bilobed leaves with strong variegation along the three primary veins, and a v-shaped arrangement of numerous abaxial laminar nectaries.
3393300| The genus Wurdackanthus (Gentianaceae-Helieae) comprises two species restricted to northern South America. Wurdackanthus argyreus is a narrowly distributed species on tepuis of southern Venezuela and northern Brazil, and W. frigidus only occurs in the Lesser Antilles. Recent phylogenetic investigations have shown that Wurdackanthus is paraphyletic with respect to Symbolanthus, and that no clear morphological distinction exists between these two genera. These two genera share several unique morphological, anatomical, and molecular synapomorphies, such as (1) pollen released as tetrads and with a coarsely reticulated exine, especially in the equatorial zone (Symbolanthus-type pollen); (2) elongated dome-like seed testa cells; and (3) molecular characters from the trnL intron, matK, internal transgenic spacer (ITS), and 5S non-transcribed spacer (5S-NTS) DNA regions. Based on the concept of monophyly and the presence of structural support, we here include Wurdackanthus in Symbolanthus and provide new synonymy. The new combinations Symbolanthus argyreus (Maguire) Struwe & K. Gould and S. frigidus (Swartz) Struwe & K. Gould are made herein. /// El gnero Wurdackanthus (Gentianaceae-Helieae) comprende dos especies restringidas al norte de Sur Amrica. Wurdackanthus argyreus se distribuye en los tepuis del sur de Venezuela y norte del Brasil y W. frigidus se encuentra nicamente en las Antillas menores. Investigaciones recientes sobre la filogenia del grupo han mostrado que Wurdackanthus es parafiltico en relacin a Symbolanthus, y que no existen tampoco diferencias morfolgicas claras entre los dos gneros. Los dos gneros comparten varias sinapomorfas morfolgicas, anatmicas y moleculares tales como (1) polen en ttradas y con exina abruptamente reticulada, especialmente en la zona ecuatorial (polen del tipo Symbolanthus), (2) clulas de la cubierta seminal elongadas en forma de domo y (3) caracteres moleculares en las regiones de ADN del intron trnL, matK, del espaciador interno transgnico (ITS), y del espaciador no transcriptor 5S (5S-NTS). Con base en el concepto de monoflia y de la presencia de soporte estructural, inclumos Wurdackanthus en Symbolanthus y presentamos la nueva sinonmia. Se publican adems las combinaciones nuevas Symbolanthus argyreus (Maguire) Struwe & K. Gould y S. frigidus (Swartz) Struwe & K. Gould. 
10.2307/3392107|The taxon long known as Juncus tenuis Willdenow var. anthelatus Wiegand differs from J. tenuis in morphology (it is more robust than J. tenuis, with a more diffuse inflorescence and slightly smaller capsules), habitat, flowering time, and isozyme profile, and should be treated as a distinct species, Juncus anthelatus (Wiegand) R. E. Brooks, stat. nov.
10.2307/3393156|A third species of Villarsia from South Africa, V. manningiana sp. nov., differs from V. capensis and from V. goldblattiana in one or more of these characters: size of leaves and inflorescences, length of pedicels, number of flowers per inflorescence, number of ovules per ovary, and surface of seeds. As now circumscribed, V. capensis consists of an eastern and a western suite of local populations within the Western Cape Province.
10.2307/3393567|Smithatris myanmarensis, the second species of a previously monospecific genus, is described from Myanmar. This new species differs from its congener in Thailand by the overall smaller stature, elliptic leaf lamina with long petioles, dimorphic inflorescence bracts, corolla lobes of similar size and shape, the pouch formed by the labellum and lateral staminodes below the anther, and the shallowly lobed labellum.
10.2307/3393367|Twisselmannia californica is transferred to Tropidocarpum (Brassicaceae). A key to the four species of Tropidocarpum is presented. Disjunction between the North and South American species of the genus is discussed.
40856288|A new species of Jaltomata Schltdl. (Solanaceae) from Mexico is described and a key to the Jaltomata of Mexico is provided. Known only from the type locality, J. bohsiana Mione & D. M. Spooner is distinguished from the similar J. procumbens (Cav.) J. L. Gentry by having a purple flowering calyx to 6.8 mm diam., the calyx lobes both recurved and concave in cross section, and a fruiting calyx to 10 mm diam. In contrast, J. procumbens has a mostly green flowering calyx that is not recurved, the calyx lobes are not concave in cross section, with a diameter greater than 7 mm, and a fruiting calyx diameter greater than 10 mm.
3393290|Chthamalia cuyabensis is transferred to Matelea cuyabensis and is lectotypified.
23259410|The relationships among cypress species of the closely related genera Cupressus L., Callitropsis Oerst., and the recently described Hesperocyparis Bartel & R. A. Price were examined using morphological characters. Previous studies did not fully resolve New World and Old World cypresses, the status of Cupressus duclouxiana B. Hickel, Cupressus benthamii Endl., and Cupressus funebris Endl. being in question. Cupressus duclouxiana is sister to Hesperocyparis and Cupressus benthamii is sister to Callitropsis, while Cupressus funebris is considered a basal taxon to all other Cupressus investigated. The intrusion of Hesperocyparis lusitanica (Mill.) Bartel characters into the standard descriptions of Cupressus torulosa D. Don ex Lamb. is examined in order to clarify the differentiation of the respective genera. An emended description of Callitropsis constituting a grade of three species is provided. The new combination, Callitropsis funebris (Endl.) de Laub. & Husby, is provided for Cupressus funebris. Five names at new varietal rank are transferred to Hesperocyparis, as H. arizonica (Greene) Bartel var. nevadensis (Abrams) de Laub. [ Cupressus nevadensis Abrams], H. arizonica var. montana (Wiggins) de Laub. [ Cupressus montana Wiggins], H. goveniana (Gordon) Bartel var. abramsiana (C. B. Wolf) de Laub. [ Cupressus abramsiana C. B. Wolf], H. goveniana var. pygmaea (Lemmon) de Laub. [ Cupressus goveniana Gordon var. pygmaea Lemmon], and H. lusitanica var. lindleyi (Klotzsch ex Endl.) de Laub. [ Cupressus lindleyi Klotzch ex Endl.].
10.2307/3391592|Bouvardia rzedowskii, a new species from Oaxaca and Guerrero, Mexico, is described. We also note the rediscovery of the rare Oaxacan endemic Hedyotis xestosperma and transfer it to Bouvardia.
10.2307/3391606|Two new species of the "Ripariae" group of Aristida are described and illustrated: A. brasiliensis is distinguished by the lower glume, which is shorter than the upper one, and by the pubescent collar; A. constricta by the articulation at the base of the long column of the lemma. A key to the group is provided.
40856326|A new species in Apocynaceae, Heterostemma xuansonense T. B. Tran & Joo-Hwan Kim, is described from Vietnam; illustrations and a comparison with related species are also provided. Heterostemma xuansonense distinctly differs from H. grandiflorum Costantin by the flower color, the absence of a peduncle, and the size of the corona.
10.2307/3393133|Mikania oreophila, a new species of Asteraceae (Eupatorieae) from the southern Brazilian highlands, is described and illustrated. The new species is related to M. paranensis, from which it differs by the thinly chartaceous and somewhat basally attenuate leaves and subinvolucral bracts placed at the base of the peduncles. /// Se describe e ilustra Mikania oreophila, una nueva especie de Asteraceae (Eupatorieae) de las montaas del sur de Brasil. La nueva especie est emparentada con M. paranensis, de la cual se diferencia por sus hojas finamente cartceas y algo atenuadas en la base y por las brcteas subinvolucrales dispuestas en la base de los pednculos.
10.2307/3391523|The generic placement of a new species, Ixia acaulis, from limestone outcrops in the Knersvlakte, Vanrhynsdorp District, South Africa, is not immediately clear in part due to its reduced acaulescent habit. The bright yellow flowers have a subterranean ovary and are borne above ground level on a long perianth tube. An acaulescent habit is unusual in Iridaceae, although known in several genera of the two larger subfamiles, Iridoideae and Ixioideae. In an effort to correctly assign the plant to a genus, we have examined leaf anatomy and chromosome cytology as well as macromorphology and palynology. A basal rooting corm places the species firmly in Ixioideae, as does the perforate exine sculpturing. We conclude that it belongs in the southern African genus Ixia, although an acaulescent habit is otherwise unknown in this genus and other aspects of the plant do not exactly conform to this genus.
10.2307/3391495|Four new species are described, one with two distinct subspecies: Passiflora (sect. Cieca) juliana, P. (sect. Cieca) xiikzodz subsp. xiikzodz and subsp. itzensis, P. (sect. Pseudodysosmia) oaxacensis, and P. (sect. Xerogona) escobariana. Passiflora juliana appears to be the closest relative of P. viridflora Cavanilles, a species that traditionally has been segregated as a distinct section or subgenus.
10.2307/3393557| During the course of a taxonomic study of the Neotropical species of Dilleniaceae, two new species from Brazil were discovered: Doliocarpus lombardii from the "Mata Atlntica" and Tetracera boomii from the "Mata de Restringa" and "Cerrado" vegetation dominated by Curatella americana L. The two new species are described, illustrated, and compared to closely related species. By its sessile inflorescence Doliocarpus lombardii is closely related to D. sessiliflorus Martius, but differs from that species in its longer leaf blades (9-22 cm long), densely pubescent on the lower surface; sepals 5, 6-11 mm long, ovate or elliptic, adpressed sericeous in midrib internally; and fruit densely hispid. Tetracera boomii is known only from two places in Bahia and Sergipe states, Brazil, and is similar to T lasiocarpa Eichler in that both bear follicles 1-1.5 cm long, densely hispid at the apex; however, T. boomii differs from that species in its leaves rigid-coriaceous, elliptic, aerolate below and margins dentate, inflorescences 1-2 cm long, bracteoles ca. 6 mm long, sepals 11-14, filaments 4-5 mm long, and aril completely covering the seed. 
10.2307/3393263|Seven endemic Madagascan species previously assigned to the genus Glochidion J. R. & G. Forster by Leandri are re-examined morphologically and found to belong to Phyllanthus L. (Euphorbiaceae s.l. or Phyllanthaceae). As a consequence, the following five new combinations are made: Phyllanthus ankaratrae (Leandri) Petra Hoffmann & McPherson, P. humbertii (Leandri) Petra Hoffmann & McPherson, P. lichenisilvae (Leandri) Petra Hoffmann & McPherson, P. marojejiensis (Leandri) Petra Hoffmann & McPherson, and P. perrieri (Leandri) Petra Hoffmann & McPherson.
3393461|Mikania pooleana, known only from Oaxaca, Mexico, is similar to M. tonduzii of Mexico and Central America, but distinguished by its lanceolate leaves and hemispherical glomerules. The latter species has ovate to broadly ovate leaves and spherical glomerules. Mikania saxicola of Minas Gerais, Brazil, is characterized by its dense spike-like capitulescence, small heads about 4.5 mm long, and cypselae with forked trichomes. It has affinity to M. microlepis, also of Brazil, which is distinguished by its dense fulvous-tomentose nature, larger heads, and lack of forked trichomes.
3393446|In the recent revision of Ardisia subg. Auriculardisia, the new status, combination, and basionym for Ardisia sect. Auriculardisia were erroneously omitted. The section is validated here.
10.2307/3392990|The following new species, new variety, new name, and four new combinations are published for the forthcoming account of Saxifraga L. in the Flora of China, Volume 8: S. epiphylla Gornall & H. Ohba, sp. nov., S. gemmigera Engler var. gemmuligera (Engler) J. T. Pan & Gornall, comb. nov., S. heterotricha Marquand & Airy-Shaw var. anadena (H. Smith) J. T. Pan & Gornall, comb. et stat. nov., S. hypericoides Franchet var. aurantiascens (Engler & Irmscher) J. T. Pan & Gornall, comb. nov., S. hypericoides var. rockii (Mattfeld) J. T. Pan & Gornall, comb. et stat. nov., S. sinomontana J. T. Pan & Gornall, nom. nov., and S. sinomontana var. amabilis H. Smith ex J. T. Pan, var. nov. In addition, the names S. mengtzeana Engler & Irmscher and S. mengtzeana var. cordatifolia Engler & Irmscher are lectotypified here.
23018506|Species of Hoffmannia Sw. (Rubiaceae, Hamelieae) are concentrated in premontane and montane areas of Central America and southern Mexico and are notably variable morphologically, but are here treated as less variable than some previous authors have concluded. In particular, corolla shape and color and fruit shape are here considered species-level characteristics, and leaf shape and inflorescence size and position are considered less variable than previously posited. Fourteen species new to science have been discovered by recent exploration in Central and South America and are described here. One group of species includes Hoffmannia plants from Nicaragua, Costa Rica, Panama, and northwestern Colombia with paired ant vesicles (i.e., formicaria) at the base of each leaf blade. These plants have recently been all included in one species, H. vesiculifera Standl., but two other previously described species are recognized here, H. morii Dwyer and H. kirkbridei Dwyer, along with five newly described species and all the Hoffmannia species with ant vesicles are keyed here. The newly described Hoffmannia species with ant vesicles on their leaves are: H. formicaria C. M. Taylor of Costa Rica and western Panama, which differs from H. morii by its pedunculate inflorescences, pedicellate flowers, and white, greenish yellow, or pink corollas; H. limonensis C. M. Taylor of Costa Rica and western Panama, which differs from H. vesiculifera by its corollas with the acute to acuminate lobes longer than the tube; H. pseudovesiculifera C. M. Taylor of western Panama, which differs from H. vesiculifera by its scorpioid inflorescences and corollas with the lobes longer than the tube and in general unusually long within the genus; H. subcapitata C. M. Taylor of Costa Rica, which differs from H. kirkbridei by its shorter petioles, subcapitate pedunculate inflorescences, and longer broader calyx lobes; and H. veraguensis C. M. Taylor of western Panama, which differs from H. formicaria by its shorter calyx lobes and smaller corollas. The remaining Hoffmannia species newly described here lack ant vesicles on the leaves: H. barbillana C. M. Taylor of Costa Rica differs from H. longipetiolata Pol. in its sessile leaves that are rounded at the base and its epiphytic habit; H. boliviana C. M. Taylor of Bolivia and Peru differs from H. obovata (Ruiz & Pav.) Standl., H. latifolia (Bartl. ex DC.) Kuntze, and H. pearcei Rusby in its longer petioles, broader leaves, and smaller flowers; H. coriacea C. M. Taylor of central Peru is distinguished within Hoffmannia by its narrow leathery leaves and corolla with the tube longer than the lobes; H. costaricensis C. M. Taylor of Costa Rica differs from H. valerioi Standl. in its shorter calyx lobes and oblanceolate leaves; H. micrantha C. M. Taylor of Costa Rica differs from H. hammelii C. M. Taylor by its orange, brown, or purple corollas that are acute in bud; H. pacifica C. M. Taylor of Costa Rica is distinguished from H. hammelii by its subsessile leaves that are rounded to cordulate at the base; H. rivalis C. M. Taylor of lowland Peru is distinguished by its rheophytic habit, densely pubescent stems, narrow leaves, and small flowers; H. tilaranensis C. M. Taylor of Costa Rica differs from H. nicotianifolia (M. Martens & Galeotti) L. O. Williams in its larger red to purple flowers and larger leaves; and H. turrialbana C. M. Taylor of Costa Rica is distinguished from H. pittieri Standl. by its subsessile leaves that are truncate to cordulate at the base and have numerous secondary veins plus its few-flowered racemiform inflorescences. Las especies de Hoffmannia Sw. (Rubiaceae, Hamelieae) se concentran en reas premontanas y montanas de Amrica Central y el sur de Mxico y muestran una variacin morfolgica notable, pero aqu se tratan con menos variacin que algunos autores anteriores han concluido. En particular aqu la forma y el color de la corola y la forma del fruto se consideran caractersticas al nivel de especie, y la forma de las hojas y el tamao y la posicin de la inflorescencia se consideran menos variables que antes se ha propuesto. Catorce especies nuevas a la ciencia se descubrieron a travs de exploraciones recientes en Amrica Central y Amrica del Sur, y se describen aqu. Un grupo de especies incluye las plantas de Hoffmannia de Nicaragua, Costa Rica, Panam y el noroeste de Colombia con vesculas hormigueras (i.e., formicarios) en pares en la base de la lmina de cada hoja. Estas plantas recientemente se incluyeron todas en una sla especie, H. vesiculifera Standl., pero dos ms especies anteriormente descritas se reconocen aqu, H. morii Dwyer y H. kirkbridei Dwyer, con cinco especies nuevamente descritas y todas las especies de Hoffmannia con vesculas hormigueras se distinguen aqu en una clave. Las especies de Hoffmannia con vesculas hormigueras en las hojas que se describen nuevamente aqu son: H. formicaria C. M. Taylor de Costa Rica y el oeste de Panama, la cual se distingue de H. morii por las inflorescencias pedunculadas, las flores pediceladas y las corolas de color blanco, amarillo verdoso o rosado; H. limonensis C. M. Taylor de Costa Rica y el oeste de Panama, la cual se distingue de H. vesiculifera por las corolas con sus lobos agudos a acuminados y ms largos que el tubo; H. pseudovesiculifera C. M. Taylor del oeste de Panama, la cual se distingue de H. vesiculifera por las inflorescencias escorpioides y las corolas con sus lobos ms largos que el tubo, y estes lobos por lo general excepcionalmente largos dentro del gnero; H. subcapitata C. M. Taylor de Costa Rica, la cual se distingue de H. kirkbridei por los pecolos ms cortos, las inflorescencias subcapitadas y pedunculadas y los lobos del cliz ms largos y ms anchos; y H. veraguensis C. M. Taylor del oeste de Panama, la cual se distingue de H. formicaria por los lobos del cliz ms cortos y la corola de tamao menor. Las otras especies de Hoffmannia que se describen aqu no tienen vesculas hormigueras en las hojas: H. barbillana C. M. Taylor de Costa Rica se distingue de H. longipetiolata Pol. por las hojas ssiles con la base redondeada y el hbito epiftico; H. boliviana C. M. Taylor de Bolivia y Peru se distingue de H. obovata (Ruiz & Pav.) Standl., H. latifolia (Bartl. ex DC.) Kuntze y H. pearcei Rusby por los pecolos ms largos, las hojas ms anchas y las flores de tamao menor; H. coriacea C. M. Taylor del centro de Per se distingue dentro de Hoffmannia por las angostas hojas coriceas y la corola con el tubo ms largo que los lobos; H. costaricensis C. M. Taylor de Costa Rica se distingue de H. valerioi Standl. por los lobos del cliz ms cortos y las hojas oblanceoladas; H. micrantha C. M. Taylor de Costa Rica se distingue de H. hammelii C. M. Taylor por las corolas de color anaranjado, pardo o purpreo y agudas en el botn; H. pacifica C. M. Taylor de Costa Rica se distingue de H. hammelii por las hojas subssiles y redondeadas a corduladas en la base; H. rivalis C. M. Taylor de tierra baja en Per se distingue por su hbito de refilo, los tallos densamente pubescentes, las angostas hojas y las flores pequeas; H. tilaranensis C. M. Taylor de Costa Rica se distingue de H. nicotianifolia (M. Martens & Galeotti) L. O. Williams por las flores de tamao mayor y de color rojo a purpreo y las hojas ms grandes; y H. turrialbana C. M. Taylor de Costa Rica se distingue de H. pittieri Standl. por las hojas subssiles, truncadas a corduladas en la base y con numerosas venas secundarias adems las inflorescencias racemiformes paucifloras.
10.2307/3392029|A new species, Wikstroemia johnplewsii, is described and illustrated. This distinctive species is restricted to upper montane mesic to wet forest on the island of Hivaoa (Marquesas Islands in French Polynesia); it differs from the only other Wikstroemia species in the Marquesas, W. coriacea, which occurs widely in Polynesia, by its ovate-elliptic to suborbicular, subsessile leaves and long, 9-27-flowered, racemose inflorescences with an elongate peduncle and inflorescence axis.
10.2307/3392064|Lesquerella vicina (Brassicaceae) is proposed for a perennial with white flowers found near Montrose, Colorado. It is most closely related to the yellow-flowered L. rectipes, differing additionally by having broader basal leaves. In the Montrose area it grows on Mancos Shale from 6000 to 7200 feet at the ecotone between pinyon-juniper woodland and salt desert scrub. At the lower elevation the plants have a more ephemeral growth form, but at the higher elevations the plants are longer-lived perennials with well-developed caudices.
10.2307/3392233|A series of collections from Guadalupe y Calvo in southern Chihuahua State, Mexico, is described as a new species, Festuca diclina (Poaceae), and compared with similar species from Central America.
40856316|The identity of Securidaca hebeclada DC. (Polygalaceae) is explained and a new combination is made: Bredemeyera hebeclada (DC.) J. F. B. Pastore.Bredemeyera velutina A. W. Benn. is synonymized under the latter name and its lectotype is selected herein. An illustration of B. hebeclada is provided, and its distribution and morphology are discussed. A identidade de Securidaca hebeclada DC.(Polygalaceae)  explicada e  proposto aqu urna nova combinaao Bredemeyera hebeclada (DC.) J. F.sinonimizada sob nome mais antigo B. hebeclada e com escolha de um lecttipo. Tambm  apresentada uma ilustrao e comentarios sobre a sua distribuiao e morfologa.
10.2307/3393071|The new species Alyssum klimesii and Aphragmus ladakiana from Ladak (northwestern India), Arabis setosifolia from Xizang (China), and Sinosophiopsis furcata from Sichuan (China) are described, and their relationships to the most closely related species of their respective genera are discussed.
27765236|Una nueva especie Blechnum yungense Ramos Giacosa (Pteridophyta, Blechnaceae), la cual se distribuye en Argentina y Bolivia se describe e ilustra a partir de material de Jujuy, Argentina. Este nuevo taxn es semejante a B. schomburgkii (Klotzsch) C. Chr. del cual difiere por las caractersticas de las pinnas, reduccin basal de la lmina y ornamentacin de las esporas. Ambos taxones estn incluidos en la sect. Lomariocycas (J. Sm.) C. V. Morton del gnero Blechnum L. The new species Blechnum yungense Ramos Giacosa (Pteridophyta, Blechnaceae), distributed in Argentina and Bolivia, is described from Jujuy, Argentina, and illustrated. The new taxon resembles B. schomburgkii (Klotzsch) C. Chr., but it differs in the pinnae, the basal reduction of the lamina, and the spore ornamentation. Both taxa are included in Blechnum L. sect. Lomariocycas (J. Sm.) C. V. Morton.
40960825|The name Quercus cambodiensis Hickel & A. Camus (Fagaceae) is lectotypified herein. Based on morphological comparison and wild population observation, seven names within Quercus subg. Cyclobalanopsis (Oerst.) C. K. Schneid. (Fagaceae) are synonymized: Q. patelliformis Chun to Q. asymetrica Hickel & A. Camus; Cyclobalanopsis yingjiangensis Y. C. Hsu & Q. Z. Dong to Q. brevicalyx A. Camus; Q. cambodiensis Hickel & A. Camus, Q. camusiae Hickel & A. Camus, and C. pachyloma (Seemen) Schottky var. mubianensis Y. C. Hsu & H. W. Jen to Q. langbianensis Hickel & A. Camus; and Q. subhinoidea Chun & W. C. Ko and Q. chingsiensis Y. T. Chang to Q. thorelii Hickel & A. Camus.
40300883|While investigating the fern called Adiantum meishanianum F. S. Hsu ex Y. C. Liu & W. L. Chiou (Pteridaceae), it was discovered that the name was not validly published because it had not appeared in an effectively published work. The name is validated herein; the holotype is deposited in HAST, and there are paratypes in TAIF, HAST, and SYSU.
43289119|Euphorbia rayturnen V. W. Steinm. & Jercinovic (Euphorbiaceae), a new species endemic to southwestern New Mexico, United States, is described and illustrated. This summer annual occurs in desert grassland and is known from three collections made in Grant, Hidalgo, and Luna counties at elevations of 1400-1700 m. Given its limited distribution and small population size, we propose that the species is best considered as CR, or Critically Endangered, according to IUCN Red List criteria. The new species belongs to Euphorbia L. sect. Anisophyllum Roep. on the basis of possessing interpetiolar stipules and opposite leaves that are asymmetrical at the base. It is characterized by being a pubescent, prostrate herb with serrulate leaves that often have a red blotch in the center and an ovary with undivided styles.
10.2307/3393366| Based on extensive molecular, cytological, and morphological studies, most of the North American species of Arabis (Brassicaceae) are recognized herein as members of the genus Boechera. Morphological differences between the two genera are discussed, and species formerly placed in Arabis and not included here in Boechera are assigned to other genera. Thirty-two new combinations in Boechera are proposed: B. bodiensis (Rollins) Al-Shehbaz, B. breweri (S. Watson) Al-Shehbaz, B. canadensis (L.) Al-Shehbaz, B. constancei (Rollins) Al-Shehbaz, B. cusickii (S. Watson) Al-Shehbaz, B. dispar (M. E. Jones) Al-Shehbaz, B. falcifructa (Rollins) Al-Shehbaz, B. fruticosa (A. Nelson) Al-Shehbaz, B. glaucovalvula (M. E. Jones) Al-Shehbaz, B. hastatula (Greene) Al-Shehbaz, B. hirshbergiae (S. Boyd) Al-Shehbaz, B. hoffmanii (Munz) Al-Shehbaz, B. inyoensis (Rollins) Al-Shehbaz, B. johnstonii (Munz) Al-Shehbaz, B. koehleri (T. J. Howell) Al-Shehbaz, B. laevigata (Muhlenberg ex Willdenow) Al-Shehbaz, B. missouriensis (Greene) Al-Shehbaz, B. ophira (Rollins) Al-Shehbaz, B. parishii (S. Watson) Al-Shehbaz, B. patens (Sullivant) Al-Shehbaz, B. perstellata (E. Braun) Al-Shehbaz, B. pinzlae (Rollins) Al-Shehbaz, B. platysperma (A. Gray) Al-Shehbaz, B. pygmaea (Rollins) Al-Shehbaz, B. rectissima (Greene) Al-Shehbaz, B. repanda (S. Watson) Al-Shehbaz, B. rigidissima (Rollins) Al-Shehbaz, B. rollei (Rollins) Al-Shehbaz, B. shortii (Fernald) Al-Shehbaz, B. stricta (Graham) Al-Shehbaz, B. subpinnatifida (S. Watson) Al-Shehbaz, and B. tiehmii (Rollins) Al-Shehbaz. Three recently described species, Arabis calderi G. A. Mulligan, A. murrayi G. A. Mulligan, and B. glareosa Dorn, are reduced to synonymy of B. divaricarpa (A. Nelson) A Lve & D. Lve, B. lyallii, and B. gunnisoniana (Rollins) W. A. Weber, respectively. 
40856305|Bornmuellerantha alshehbaziana Dnmez & Mutlu (Orobanchaceae), a hemiparasitic plant from idem Mountain, Antalya Province, Turkey, is described and illustrated. It is the second species in the previously monospecific Bornmuellerantha Rothm. Morphological comparison and distinguishing characters are given. The new species is a smaller plant, has smaller flowers, and is found on high mountain slopes, in comparison to the generitype, B. aucheri (Boiss.) Rothm. Bornmuellerantha alshehbaziana is also contrasted with species of the related genus Odontites Ludw. The IUCN Red List category of Critically Endangered (CR) is proposed for the new species.
40856318|Weberbauerocereus Backeb. fue considerado un gnero endmico para el Per. Se publica aqu el primer miembro de este gnero para Bolivia, W.madidiensis Quispe & A. Fuentes (Cactaceae), restringido a los bosques secos yungueos subandinos del Valle del Tuichi, en el rea protegida Madidi, al norte de la poblacin de Apolo (departamento La Paz, provincia Franz Tamayo).Weberbauerocereus madidiensis muestra similitudes con W. churinensis F.Ritter y W. johnsonii F. Ritter pero se diferencia por su escasa ramificacin, ramas sin pseudocefalio, espinas usualmente entre 13 a 19 por arola, flores cortas, estigma no emergente y fruto redondo. Weberbauerocereus Backeb. was considered a genus endemic to Peru. We publish here the first member of this genus from Bolivia, W. madidiensis Quispe & A. Fuentes (Cactaceae), restricted to dry forests in the Yungas subandean region of the Tuichi Valley north of the community of Apolo inside the Madidi protected area (La Paz Department, Franz Tamayo Province).Weberbauerocereus madidiensis is similar to W. churinensis F. Ritter and W. johnsonii F.Ritter, but differs by its reduced branching, the lack of a pseudocephalium, the spines usually 13 to 19 per arole, shorter flowers, a nonemergent stigma, and round fruits.
10.2307/3393379|Passiflora boenderi, a new species of Passifloraceae endemic to Costa Rica, is described and illustrated. It is assigned to section Decaloba DC. in the species group that includes P. gilbertiana J. M. MacDougal and P. ornithoura Masters. This rare small-flowered species is notable for its intensely colorful and variegated leaves, with rows of conspicuous golden egg mimics.
27765205|During routine identification of material of the genus Stylogyne A. DC. (Myrsinaceae), two new Brazilian species, S. dusenii Ricketson & Pipoly from the state of Paran and S. racemiflora Ricketson & Pipoly from the state of Amazonas, are described and illustrated and their phylogenetic relationships are discussed. Durante el transcurso de identificar material herborizado perteniciente al gnero Stylogyne A. DC. (Myrsinaceae) se descubri dos especies nuevas brasileas del mismo, S. dusenii Ricketson & Pipoly proveniente del estado de Paran y S. racemiflora Ricketson & Pipoly proveniente del estado de Amazonas. Se describan, se ilustran ambas especies y se discutan su parentezco.
10.2307/3393576| Se describe e ilustra Polianthes multicolor, una especie nueva del estado de Guanajuato, Mxico. Esta especie muestra similitudes con Polianthes geminiflora (Lexarza) Rose var. geminiflora y Polianthes geminiflora var. clivicola McVaugh. Difiere de ambas variedades por la forma del tubo perintico, los lbulos patentes, la presencia de clulas buliformes y la ausencia de taninos en el mesofilo. /// Polianthes multicolor a new species from Guanajuato, Mexico, is described and illustrated. This species is related to Polianthes geminiflora (Lexarza) Rose var. geminiflora and Polianthes geminiflora var. clivicola McVaugh; it differs from them in the shape of the perianth tube, spreading lobes, the presence of bulliform cells in the foliar epidermis, and the absence of tannins in the mesophyll. 
10.2307/3392236|Two narrow endemics, Paspalum campinarum (group Corcovadensia) from Amazonas, Brazil, and P. zuloagae (group Quadrifaria) from Minas Gerais, Brazil, are described, illustrated, and compared with putatively related species. Paspalum zuloagae is easily distinguished from all members of the Quadrifaria group by its prominent sheath auricles, and P. campinarum is distinguished from South American species of the Corcovadensia group by its upper glume 3/5-4/5 as long as the upper floret and the possession of axillary inflorescences.
10.2307/3391851|The new combination Melanthium woodii (Robbins ex Wood) Bodkin, made but not effectively published in my doctoral dissertation, is here validated in anticipation of its use in the forthcoming account of the genus in Flora of North America.
10.2307/3392273|Dracontium croatii G. Zhu, a new species from the western slopes of the Andes in Ecuador, is described and illustrated. Morphologically, this species does not appear to be particularly close to any member of the genus and is readily distinguished by its showy greenish spathe, large and globose berries, rounded and strongly interrupted irregular warty seeds, and matte upper blade surface. /// Dracontium croatii G. Zhu, una especie nueva de las laderas occidentales de los Andes de Ecuador se describe e ilustra. Al parecer, la nueva especie no esta cercanamente relacionada con otros taxa en el gnero. Es fcilmente reconocible por la siguiente combinacin de caracteres: la espata es vistosa y verdosa, la superficie adaxial de las hojas es opaca y las semillas y los frutos son redondeados.
10.2307/3392982|The Himalayan (Tibet and adjacent Kashmir) endemic Eurycarpus is recognized, and the characters separating its two species from Christolea, Desideria, and Parrya are discussed. The new combination E. marinellii is proposed, and Christolea longmucoensis is reduced to synonymy of E. marinellii.
20406065|Macrothumia M. H. Alford is described as a new genus of Salicaceae based on Neosprucea kuhlmannii Sleumer from Brazil. The deciduous perianth, papillate leaf teeth, presence of receptacular disk glands, and analyses of plastid DNA data suggest that the new genus is more closely related to Ahernia Merrill and Pleuranthodendron L. O. Williams than to Banara Aublet or Neosprucea Sleumer. The monotypic genus Aphaerema Miers of Brazil and Argentina is transferred to Abatia Ruiz & Pavn, based on analyses of plastid DNA sequences and on the lack of morphological discontinuities between the genera. Because the name Abatia spicata (Turczaninow) Sleumer already exists, Abatia angeliana M. H. Alford is published as a replacement name for Aphaerema spicata Miers. A lectotype for Aphaerema spicata is also designated. The monotypic Hispaniolan genus Priamosia Urban, originally described as separate from Xylosma G. Forster based on its few stamens (four, instead of eight to numerous), is transferred to Xylosma, and a neotype is designated for Xylosma domingensis (Urban) M. H. Alford. /// Macrothumia M. H. Alford  descrito como um novo gnero de Salicaceae, com base em Neosprucea kuhlmannii Sleumer do Brasil. O perianto decduo, as papilas nos dentes das folhas, a presena de discos glndulares receptaculares e a anlise de dados de DNA do plastdeo sugerem que o novo gnero  mais proximamente relacionado a Ahernia Merrill e Pleuranthodendron L. O. Williams do que a Banara Aublet ou Neosprucea Sleumer. O gnero monotpico Aphaerema Miers do Brasil e da Argentina  transferido para Abatia Ruiz & Pavn, com base em anlises de seqncias de DNA do plastdeo e devido  ausncia de descontinuidades morfolgicas entre os gneros. Em razo do nome Abatia spicata (Turczaninow) Sleumer j existir, Abatia angeliana M. H. Alford  publicado para substituir Aphaerema spicata Miers. Um lecttipo para Aphaerema spicata tambm  designado. O gnero monotpico Priamosia Urban, da ilha de Hispaniola, originalmente descrito fora de Xylosma G. Forster com base em seus poucos estames (quatro, em vez de oito a numerosos),  transferido para Xylosma, e um netipo  designado para Xylosma domingensis (Urban) M. H. Alford.
20406050|Amorphophallus xiei H. Li & Z. L. Dao (Araceae), described here as new, is endemic to Yunnan Province, China, where it is locally esteemed as a food plant. The new species is illustrated and distinguished from A. yuloensis H. Li and A. muelleri Blume, to which it is most closely related.
10.2307/3391602|Huberopappus maigualidae, a new genus and species of Compositae tribe Vernonieae from Sierra de Maigualida, Venezuela, is described and illustrated. Huberopappus is the only genus of the tribe with a coroniform pappus and dimorphic achenes. By its pappus Huberopappus is similar to Struchium and especially to Ekmania and Gorceixia, the latter two being taken as its closest relatives. Huberopappus, Ekmania, and Gorceixia seem to form a generic group and are placed near Pollalesta in the Vernonieae subtribe Piptocarphinae.
3393420| Se describe e ilustra a un nuevo gnero monotpico, arbreo y dioico, endmico a Mxico: Heteroflorum de las Leguminosae, Caesalpinioideae, Caesalpinieae, grupo Peltophorum, incluyendo la especie nueva H. sclerocarpum de la Cuenca Baja del Balsas y de la Planicie Costera del Pacfico Mexicano. Se le relaciona estrechamente con Conzattia y Peltophorum. /// A new monotypic arboreal and dioecious genus, endemic to Mexico, is described and illustrated: Heteroflorum, within the Leguminosae, Caesalpinioideae, Caesalpinieae, Peltophorum species group, including the new species H. sclerocarpum from the Balsas River basin and the Mexican coastal plains of the Pacific Ocean. The new taxon is closely related to Conzattia and Peltophorum. 
20406020|The new species Mimosa manomboensis Lefvre & Labat (Fabaceae, Mimosoideae), known only from two populations in the Mikea Forest in southwestern Madagascar, is described, illustrated, and assigned a provisional IUCN conservation status of critically endangered.Rsum. Une nouvelle espce, Mimosa manomboensis Lifvre & Labat (Fabaceae, Mimosoideae), connue seulement de deux populations de la Fort de Mikea dans le Sud-Ouest de Madagascar, est dcrite et illustre. Un statut de conservation UICN provisoire, espce en danger critique d'extinction, est propos.
10.2307/3392016|Three new species of Vallesia, V. sinaloensis, V. spectabilis, and V. vaupesana, are described. In addition, a new combination, Vallesia aurantiaca (M. Martens & Galeotti) J. F. Morales, is proposed. New synonymies are also provided.
3393543| A new species, Gochnatia hiriartiana Medrano, Villaseor & Medina (Asteraceae, tribe Mutisieae), of the desert scrubland of the state of Hidalgo, Mexico, is described. Its distinctive morphological traits are discussed and compared with the other Mexican species of Gochnatia. A key to the Mexican species of the genus is provided. 
10.2307/3391861|Calyptranthes dryadica, a new species of Myrtaceae from the coastal forests of So Paulo, characterized by few-flowered panicles with large buds, is described and illustrated.
10.2307/3392043|Two species, Pterygiella suffruticosa Hong and Scrophularia lhasaensis Hong, and one subspecies, S. chasmophila W. W. Smith subsp. xizangensis Hong, are described as new from southwestern China. In addition, four new combinations are proposed in the genera Triphysaria and Mazus: T. chinensis (Hong) Hong, M. pumilus (Burman f.) van Steenis var. wangii (Li) Chin, Mazus pumilus (Burman f.) van Steenis var. delavayi (Bonati) Chin, and Mazus pumilus (Burman f.) van Steenis var. macrocalyx (Bonati) Chin.
20406123|In preparation for a detailed account of the genus Piper L. in Honduras, a nomenclator is provided that includes the name, reference citation, and type information for species accepted. A total of 45 taxa are currently recognized, with over 100 names (species level and below) listed in synonymy, 58 of which are new. Lectotypification is provided for the following taxa for which types were not designated at the time of publication: Piper cobanense Trelease, P. cyclophyllum Trelease, P. gracillimum Trelease, P. perinaequilongum Trelease, P. telanum Trelease, P. triumphale Trelease, P. wilsonii Trelease, and P. yzabalanum C. DC. var. pubinerve Trelease. /// En anticipo al tratamiento detallado del gnero Piper L. en Honduras proveemos un nomencltor que incluye el nombre, la cita bibliogrfica de referencia y la informacin del tipo para cada especie aceptada. Al momento se reconocen 45 taxones con ms de 100 nombres (a nivel de especie y abajo) listados en sinonimia, 58 de los cuales son nuevos. Se provee la lectotipificacin para los siguientes taxones para los cuales el tipo no fue asignado al tiempo de su publicacin: Piper cobanense Trelease, P. cyclophyllum Trelease, P. gracillimum Trelease, P. perinaequilongum Trelease, P. telanum Trelease, P. triumphale Trelease, P. wilsonii Trelease y P. yzabalanum C. DC. var. pubinerve Trelease.
40856315|Pleopeltis coenosora R. C. Moran (Polypodiaceae) is described as new from Peru. It is atypical in the genus by having coenosori. It most resembles P. fraseri (Mett. ex Kuhn) A. R. Sm.because of its strongly bicolorous rhizome scales, dark brown petioles, pinnatisect laminae, and obscure veins, but differs by the fewer and wider pinnae, the wider apical segment, the more strongly dimorphic sterile and fertile leaves, and the presence of coenosori. Furthermore, the juvenile leaves of the two species differ. Those of P. coenosora remain entire until up to 12 cm long, thereafter becoming pinnatisect; those of P. fraseri become pinnatifid when only about 5 cm long. Se describe a Pleopeltis coenosora R.atpica en el gnero por tener coenosoros. Se parece mucho a P. fraseri (Mett. ex Kuhn) A. R. Sm. a causa de sus escamas del rizoma fuertemente bicoloras, pecolos pardo-oscuros, laminas pinnatisectas y venas obscuras, pero difiere por pinnas menos y ms anchas, segmento apical ms ancho, hojas estriles y frtiles ms fuertemente dimorfas y la presencia de coenosoros.Adems, las hojas juveniles de los dos especies difieren. Las de P. coenosora permanezcan enteras hasta 12 cm de longitud, despus se tornan pinnatisectas; las de P. fraseri llegan a ser pinnatisectas cuando alrededor de 5 cm de longitud.
41811687|A new fern species, Polystichum yaanense Liang Zhang & Li Bing Zhang (Dryopteridaceae), is described from Bifengxia, or the Bluish Green Peak Canyon, in Ya'an Prefecture in Sichuan Province, China. The new species is morphologically unique in having yellowish green leaves, a thin but firm leaf texture, veins visible on the adaxial leaf surface, and narrowly ovate to lanceolate rachis scales. Ecologically, the new taxon grows in acidic soils, in contrast to other species in section Haplopolystichum Tagawa. Polystichum yaanense is considered to be Critically Endangered (CR), based on IUCN Red List criteria. Ten other species of Polystichum Roth occur in the type locality within the same canyon; all 11 species are distinguished from one another by a dichotomous key based on morphology.
10.2307/3391945|Se describe e ilustra Solenophora tuxtlensis (Gesneriaceae, Gesnerioideae), una nueva especie de Veracruz, Mxico. Las caractersticas ms evidentes para distinguir esta especie son el cliz muy largo y tubular, la corola con mculas prpuras en los lbulos y una glndula nectarfera bilobulada. Solenophora tuxtlensis es conocida solamente de la regin de Los Tuxtlas, Veracruz. /// Solenophora tuxtlensis (Gesneriaceae, Gesnerioideae), a new species from Veracruz, Mexico, is described and illustrated. The most prominent features distinguishing this species are the long tubular calyx, and the corolla with dark purple spots on the lobes and only one bilobed nectariferous disc gland. It is known only from the Los Tuxtlas region, Veracruz.
10.2307/3393157|In 1974, Chang and Yan adopted the name Pittosporum ovoideum Gowda 1951, but excluded its holotype, correctly noting that it is a flowering specimen of P. pauciflorum Hooker & Arnott. They therefore published the later homonym P. ovoideum Hung T. Chang & S. Z. Yan 1974, non Gowda 1951. Gowda's name is a synonym of P. pauciflorum. The species described by Gowda as P. ovoideum has remained without a legitimate name until the present paper, where it is formally described as P. lenticellatum Chun ex H. Peng & Y. F. Deng, sp. nov.
10.2307/3391760|In the framework of the multidisciplinary Annonaceae Project, a monograph of the neotropical genus Malmea is being prepared by the author. A new species of Malmea with dimerous flowers, exceptional for Annonaceae, is here described. An overview of deviations from the typical trimerous annonaceous perianth is given for the Neotropics.
3393481| From subgenus Capparidastrum s.l. (Capparaceae), Capparis bonifaziana, a small to medium-sized tree endemic to the western, Pacific slope of Ecuador, is newly described as an allopatric segregate of the much more widespread but rare C. macrophylla s. str., of the mountains and valleys of the northern Andes to the tropical lowlands of western and southwestern Amazonia. The new species differs by its more conspicuous and larger episepalous glands, smaller anthers, ovaries, and erect petals; smaller number of stamens; elliptic to oblong, rather than broadly ovate leaves; and longer and narrower baccate fruits. Both taxa are described, compared, illustrated, mapped, and with all their known specimens listed. /// Capparis bonifaziana, del subg. Capparidastrum, s.l., Capparaceae, es una nueva especie aloptrica, de arbolillo o rbol principalmente endmico del occidente de Ecuador, segregada de la infrecuente C. macrophylla, s. str., ampliamente distribuida desde las montaas y valles al norte de los Andes hasta las tierras bajas tropicales adyacentes de la Amazona occidental y suroccidental. Esta nueva especie difiere por sus glndulas epispalas grandes y conspicuas; anteras, ovarios y ptalos erectos de menores dimensiones; menor nmero de estambres; hojas mayormente elpticas a oblongas antes que amplio ovadas; y frutos abayados ms largos y angostos. Ambos taxones son descritos, comparados, ilustrados y mapeados, con todos los especmenes conocidos citados. 
23018454|During preparation of the taxonomic treatment of Davalliaceae for the Flora of China, it was noticed that specimens of Davallia Sm. collected from Guangxi Province, China, differed from other known species in the Davalliaceae. Davallia napoensis F. G. Wang & F. W. Xing is herein described and illustrated as new to science. It is morphologically similar to D. solida (G. Forst.) Sw., but differs mainly by its rhizome scales that are triangular, with an obtuse apex and glabrous margin, the petiole of the lamina 2024 cm long, and the widely crateriform and basifixed indusium.
10.2307/3392192|Cissus pseudoverticillata and C. anisophylla, new taxa of Vitaceae, are described from Central and South America. In addition to descriptions and illustrations, comments on their probable relationships and distributions are provided.
10.2307/3392964|The approaching release of the Flora of North America Volume 26 requires the formal publication of several nomenclatural changes that will appear there. The proposed changes standardize infraspecific nomenclature in North American Lilium at the subspecies level, which is appropriate for these geographically segregated yet morphometrically overlapping and intergrading taxonomic units. The changes include a new rank for Lilium washingtonianum Kellogg subsp. purpurascens (Stearn) M. W. Skinner, and several new combinations: L. pardalinum Kellogg subsp. pitkinense (Beane & Vollmer) M. W. Skinner, L. pardalinum Kellogg subsp. shastense (Eastwood) M. W. Skinner, L. pardalinum Kellogg subsp. vollmeri (Eastwood) M. W. Skinner, and L. pardalinum Kellogg subsp. wigginsii (Beane & Vollmer) M. W. Skinner. Lectotypes are designated for L. pardalinum and L. washingtonianum and for the synonym L. parvum Kellogg var. luteum Purdy, and a neotype is selected for L. washingtonianum subsp. purpurascens.
20406209|Rhaphiolepis wuzhishanensis W. B. Liao, R. H. Miau & Q. Fan (Rosaceae) is described as a new species from Mt. Wuzhishan of Hainan Island in China. The new species is most similar to R. umbellata (Thunberg) Makino in morphology, but differs in having more flowers (70 to 100) in the inflorescence, more stamens (ca. 25), styles connate to the midpoint, smaller fruits (5-7 mm diam.), and a longer, densely rusty tomentum. The ecological and conservation status of the new species is also assessed.
10.2307/3391773|Two new species of Quiinaceae from the Venezuelan Guayana are described: Quiina yatuensis and Froesia gereauana. Quiina yatuensis is known from the Amazonian lowlands. The new Froesia species was found at high elevations in the Guayana Highlands, a center of local endemism. A key and distribution map for the species of Froesia Pires are given. /// Se describen dos especies nuevas de la familia Quiinaceae de la Guayana Venezolana: Quiina yatuensis y Froesia gereauana. Quiina yatuensis se encuentra en la Amazona venezolana. La especie de Froesia se localiza a una elevacin alta de la Guayana Venezolana, un centro de endemismo local. Se presentan una clave y un mapa de distribucin para las especies de Froesia Pires.
10.2307/3391801|The new species Paederia spectatissima H. Li from southeastern Yunnan, China, one of few evergreen species in the genus, is here validly published.
10.2307/3392057|Eight new species of Lauraceae from Madagascar belonging to the genera Beilschmiedia, Ocotea, and Potameia are described and illustrated: Beilschmiedia moratii, Ocotea grayi, O. longipedicellata, O. malcomberi, O. oligantha, O. sambiranensis, O. tsaratanensis, and Potameia micrantha.
40960841|A new taxon, Linum hirsutum L. subsp. bozdaghense Yilmaz & Kaynak (Linaceae), is described from southwestern Anatolia, Turkey. It is similar to L. hirsutum subsp. oreocancum P. H. Davis, from which it differs mainly in the shape and indumentum of leaves and in petal color. Diagnostic, morphological, and geographical data are discussed, and a revised key to the subspecies of L. hirsutum is given.
3393400|Cyanotis repens, a mat-forming perennial, is described from Kenya in tropical Africa. It differs from related species by its prostrate habit, indeterminate flowering shoots, and fusiform swelling terminating the style. Two subspecies are recognized, diploid C. repens subsp. repens from Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda, and polyploid C. repens subsp. robusta from Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, Rwanda, Democratic Republic of Congo, and Gabon. Cyanotis repens belongs to the Cyanotis foecunda species group, the species of which have a basic chromosome number of x = 13 and often distinctive karyotypes.
10.2307/3392987|On the basis of molecular data, the present authors will recognize Crassula L. and Tillaea L. as distinct genera in the forthcoming account of the Crassulaceae for the Flora of China, Volume 8. Tillaea is represented in the Flora area, but Crassula sensu stricto is not. With this arrangement, the correct name for T. pentandra Royle ex Edgeworth, described from the Himalayas, would be a new combination based on Crassula schimperi C. A. Meyer, described from Ethiopian material but clearly synonymous. The taxonomic identity of the latter name has been overlooked by authors working on Asian floras. Therefore, the new combination T. schimperi (C. A. Meyer) M. G. Gilbert, H. Ohba & K. T. Fu is made here along with new combinations for two subspecies found in tropical Africa and formerly treated under Crassula: T. schimperi subsp. phyturus (Mildbraed) M. G. Gilbert, H. Ohba & K. T. Fu and T. schimperi subsp. transvalensis (Kuntze) M. G. Gilbert, H. Ohba & K. T. Fu.
40300931|Physaria okanensis Al-Shehbaz & Prina (Brassicaceae), a new species from Catamarca, Argentina, is described and illustrated. It is distinguished from the five other South American species of Physaria (Nuttall) A. Gray by its densely pulvinate habit and few-flowered scapes. It resembles the non-pulvinate, often non-scapose P. pygmaea O'Kane & Al-Shehbaz, but also differs by having longer petals and larger, orbicular (vs. ovoid) fruits. The IUCN status of the new species is determined as Data Deficient (DD).
20406277|Se describe e ilustra Croton carpostellatus B. L. Len & Martnez-Gordillo, especie nueva de Chiapas, Mxico. Esta especie es afn a C. schiedeanus Schlechtendal y pertenece a Croton L. seccin Eluteria Grisebach, de la cual difiere por presentar ovario y cpsula con tricomas estrellados. Se presenta una clave para distinguirla de los taxa cercanos y una ilustracin de la especie. /// Croton carpostellatus B. L. Len & Martnez-Gordillo, a new species from Chiapas, Mexico, is described and illustrated. This new species belongs to Croton L. sect. Eluteria Grisebach, and it appears similar to C. schiedeanus Schlechtendal, although it differs in its ovary and capsule with stellate trichomes. A dichotomous key for distinguishing closely related taxa is included.
40856310|Trichophorum dioicum J. Jung & H. K. Choi (Cyperaceae) was observed growing on limestone cliffs within a government-protected area, from Gangwon-do, South Korea. Morphological characteristics of the new species, such as the reduced leaf blade and the single spikelet at the culm terminus, correspond to Trichophorum Pers., a sister genus among Scirpus L. s.l. Previous molecular analysis of the chloroplast rbcL gene and ITS region of nuclear ribosomal DNA supported the identity of this new endemic species as a member of Trichophorum.
41811684|A new species of Leymus Hochst. (Poaceae, Triticeae) from Inner Mongolia, China, L. pubens H. X. Xiao, is described, illustrated, and compared with its closest relatives. This species was initially identified as L. chinensis (Trin.) Tzvelev, but the upper surfaces of its leaf blades are spinulose, and the internode below the spike, upper half of the rachis, rachilla, and lemmas are sparsely puberulent. A key is provided for L. pubens and closely related species of Leymus. The identification of the new species is also supported by nuclear ribosomal ITS and chloroplast trnL-F sequence analyses.
10.2307/3391427|The types of Hieracium kalmii and H. canadense are taken to represent two extremes within a species complex. A new combination, H. kalmii var. canadense, is proposed.
23018456|Taxonomic evaluation of Polygonum multiflorum Thunb. var. angulatum S. Y. Liu (Polygonaceae) reveals that a new combination in Fallopia Adans. is necessary, and the name F. multiflora (Thunb.) Haraldson var. angulata (S. Y. Liu) H. J. Yan, Z. J. Fang & Shi Xiao Yu is proposed. The new variety differs from the typical one by its square branchlets with longitudinal ridges that are densely papillate and by its root tubers with a greater abundance of fibers and abnormal vascular strands evident in anatomical cross section.
10.2307/3391886|Six species of grasses (Poaceae: Pooideae) from Ecuador are described as new: Calamagrostis carchiensis, C. ecuadoriensis, C. fulgida, C. llanganatensis, C. teretifolia, and Poa paramoensis; one new name is proposed: Calamagrostis fibrovaginata; and three new combinations are made: Calamagrostis hirta, Festuca vaginalis, and Nassella ibarrensis. /// Seis especies de gramneas (Poaceae: Pooideae) del Ecuador se describen como nuevas: Calamagrostis carchiensis, C. ecuadoriensis, C. fulgida, C. llanganatensis, C. teretifolia y Poa paramoensis; se propone un nombre nuevo: Calamagrostis fibrovaginata; y se hacen tres nuevas combinaciones: Calamagrostis hirta, Festuca vaginalis y Nassella ibarrensis.
23018479|The new species Epimedium yinjiangense M. Y. Sheng & X. J. Tian (Berberidaceae) is described from Guizhou Province, China. It is similar to E. acuminatum Franch. but differs in its chromosome count of 4n = 24, as well as in its leaves, flowers, and inflorescences.
10.2307/3392214|The new species Chamaesyce eleanoriae is described and illustrated, and its affinities are discussed. It is restricted to the steep slopes and cliffs of northern Kaua'i, the oldest of the main Hawaiian Islands. Chamaesyce eleanoriae is closely related to the Kaua'i endemic C. sparsiflora, from which it differs by its consistently present white, glandular cyathial appendages.
20406144|The species of the Brazilian genus Hoffmannseggella H. G. Jones (Orchidaceae, Laeliinae) are under investigation as part of a biosystematic study. A new species, H. viridiflora Verola & Semir, is recognized by differences in morphological characters, such as the spatulate petals and reduced lip, the greenish yellow coloration of the perianth, and the chromosome number, 2n = 44. Its relationship with closely related taxa, such as H. bradei (Pabst) V. P. Castro & Chiron, is discussed. /// As espcies de Hoffmannseggella H. G. Jones (Orchidaceae, Laeliinae), um gnero exclusivamente brasileiro, esto sendo investigadas como parte de um estudo biossistemtico. A nova espcie, H. viridiflora Verola & Semir, pode ser reconhecida por caracteres diagnsticos como ptalas espatuladas, labelo reduzido, colorao amarelo esverdeado do perianto e o nmero cromossmico de 2n = 44. Sua relao com espcies prximas como H. bradei (Pabst) V. P. Castro & Chiron  discutida.
20406249|Seven new combinations of species previously treated in Pleurothallis R. Brown (Orchidaceae, Pleurothallidinae) and found in the southernmost region of South America (the Southern Cone) are proposed: Anathallis bertoniensis (Hauman) Luer, A. kleinii (Pabst) Luer, A. liparanges (Reichenbach f.) Luer, A. rigidula (Cogniaux) Luer, Pabstiella dryadum (Schlechter) Luer, P. pellifeloidis (Barbosa Rodrigues) Luer, and P. piraquarensis (Hoehne) Luer. Lectotypes are selected for the following names: A. rigidula and P. pellifeloidis.
10.2307/3391421|A new species of Xyris (sect. Nematopus) has been discovered in the Caquet basin east of Araracuara, Dept. Caquet in the Colombian Amazon area. Xyris trachysperma is described, illustrated, and discussed as to its relationships with other taxa of the section. The affinities of X. trachysperma appear to be more with species of planaltan Brazil than with those of the Guayana Highlands.
10.2307/3392238|Three new species are recognized in the southern African Geissorhiza, a genus now including 84 species. Geissorhiza silenoides and G. rupicola are members of subgenus Geissorhiza and occur in the Ceres District of the southwestern Cape, South Africa. Both have pale pink flowers with unusually long perianth tubes for the genus. Geissorhiza silenoides is additionally distinguished by having unequal stamens, each filament being of a different length, scabrid-puberulent stems, and leaves with heavily thickened margins and midribs. Geissorhiza rupicola has unusual soft-textured corm tunics and, like G. silenoides, has leaves with strongly thickened margins and midribs. The third new species, G. uliginosa, is restricted to the Swartberg Mountains of the southern Cape and grows on wet cliffs and under waterfalls. It stands out in the genus in having the flowers solitary on the stems, and very soft-textured corm tunics that rapidly decay, sometimes leaving the corms apparently without tunics. All three new species occur in the southern and southwestern part of southern Africa, a region known for the richness and diversity of its flora, particularly of geophytes.
10.2307/3393581|A new species, Ephedra rituensis Y. Yang, D. Z. Fu & G. Zhu, is described and illustrated. This species is similar to Ephedra intermedia Schrenk & C. A. Meyer in having bi- or tri-ovulate cones, and to E. saxatilis Royle ex Florin in having strong and well-developed woody stems and branchlets. It differs from E. intermedia mainly by the shorter micropylar tube straight or slightly curved and the less connate bracts of the upper-most whorl of female cones, and from E. saxatilis by the longer micropylar tube, the bi- or tri-ovulate female cones, more pairs or whorls of bracts, and the smaller seeds. The new species should be ascribed to Ephedra sect. Pseudobaccatae Stapf since its female cones bear fleshy bracts at maturity.
10.2307/3391496|Of the 118 species of Elaphoglossum treated in the flora of Mesoamerica, 33 were determined to be new and are described here. In addition, one new variety is described and one variety is raised to species rank.
10.2307/3392194|Diospyros morenoi, a new species from the oak forests of northwestern Nicaragua, is described, and its relationships to similar Central American species are discussed.
10.2307/3391400|A new species of Rubiaceae from Amazonian Peru, Faramea vasquezii C. M. Taylor, described and illustrated here, appears to be related to F. capillipes and F. quadricostata.
10.2307/3393219|Two new species of Croton are described from Amazonian Brazil, Croton diasii and C. trombetensis. Croton diasii is superficially similar to C. schiedeanus, but differs in having leaves with sparse lepidote scales on the lower surface, the upper surface glabrous, a pair of glands at the base of the blade, lack of petals in the pistillate flowers, and stamens densely villous on the lower half of the filaments. Croton trombetensis, which lacks a close affinity to any other Croton from the Brazilian Amazon, is characterized by leaves with a dense indument of stellate trichomes on both sides, a cordate base, long acicular stipules, a robust terminal thyrse 40-46 cm long, staminate flowers in fasciculate cymules, and pistillate flowers mixed among the staminate ones. /// Duas novas espcies da Amaznia Brasileira, Croton diasii e C. trombetensis, so descritas. Croton diasii  superficialmente semelhante a C. schiedeanus, mas separa-se por apresentar folhas com tricomas lepidotos esparsos na face abaxial, a face adaxial glabra, um par de glndulas na base do limbo, ausncia de ptalas na flor pistilada e estames densamente vilosos at a metade do filete. Croton trombetensis no apresenta afinidades claras com nenhuma outra espcie da Amaznia Brasileira, e caracteriza-se pelas folhas com denso indumento de tricomas estrelados em ambas as faces, base cordada, longas estpulas aciculadas, inflorescncia em tirso terminal, robusta (40-46 cm de comprimento), as flores estaminadas em fascculos e as pistiladas misturadas com as estaminadas.
40856304|The two species of Aidia Lour. (Rubiaceae, Gardenieae) newly described here bring this genus to three species in Tanzania and Kenya. Aidia abeidii S. E. Dawson & Gereau, from evergreen coastal forests of eastern Tanzania and Kenya, corresponds to an unnamed species mentioned in the Rubiaceae treatment for the Flora of Tropical East Africa. Aidia crassifolia S. E. Dawson & Gereau, from evergreen forests of northeastern and east-central Tanzania, is a larger tree or shrub with much larger inflorescences than the other two species of Aidia in tropical East Africa. The new species of Polysphaena Hook. f. (Rubiaceae, Octotropideae), P. ntemii S. E. Dawson & Gereau, from evergreen forests of the East Usambara lowlands in Tanzania, corresponds to Polysphaena sp. of the Flora of Tropical East Africa.
10.2307/3391395|Cybianthus rupestris, a new species from the Planalto of Brazil, is described and illustrated, and its phylogenetic relationships are discussed. Cybianthus glaziovii Mez is placed in synonymy with C. coriaceus Martius; the former binomial is lectotypified, the latter is neotypified, and a complete description is provided for the taxon.
10.2307/3391412|Physalis subtriflora, type species of the genus Larnax, is transferred to the genus Deprea.
10.2307/3392269|A new species of Votomita, V. cupuliformis, has been found on the north side of western Panama, the first member of the genus known to occur in Central America. The new species is most similar to V. roraimensis Morley of central Roraima, Brazil. Distinguishing features are discussed, and a key to all nine species of the genus is provided.
10.2307/3393054|One new species of Cynanchum from Ecuador is described, C. schizocoronum Liede & Meve, distinguished by its entirely fused corona with pronounced interstaminal folds and a strongly lacerate upper margin. One South American Cynanchum species is transferred to Oxypetalum, one to Blepharodon, two to Jobinia, two to Metastelma, two to Petalostelma, and one to Tassadia. One new synonym is recognized in Ditassa and one in Tassadia. The sectional affiliation of six species of Cynanchum is clarified.
40856287|Rungia linifolia Nees var. saldanhae Mascar. & Janarth. (Acanthaceae), a new variety from Kottigehara in Charmadi Ghat, Karnataka State (Western Ghats), is described and illustrated. The new variety is very similar to the typical variety R. linifolia var. linifolia in its filiform branches, inwardly curved inflorescence axis, secund, four-ranked spikes with two flowerless bracts and two flowered bracts, lanceolate bracteoles with scarious margins, and superposed anther lobes with the lower one spurred. The new variety differs in its larger size, pubescent stems, ciliate leaf margin, elliptic-lanceolate bracts, and the compound, verrucose testa of the seed.
20406270|Ten new species of Anthurium (Araceae) are described from Amazonian Peru. Nine of the species, A. carpishense Croat, A. cerrateae Croat & Lingn, A. debilipeltatum Croat, A. josei Croat, A. linganii Croat, A. longissimilobum Croat, A. pradoense Croat, A. puberulum Croat & Lingn, and A. timplowmanii Croat, are from a single area of high endemism in the southern Huallaga River Valley of Hunuco Department near Tingo Mara, and the area between Tingo Mara and La Divisora; and one species, A. pulcachense Croat, is endemic to an area in the middle Ro Huallaga valley in San Martn, Peru.
23018480|A new species of Arisaema Mart. (Araceae) is described and illustrated from Wangmo County, Guizhou Province, China. The relationship between A. wangmoense M. T. An, H. H. Zhang & Q. Lin and related taxa is discussed. The new species is distinguished by its obtuse cataphylls, petiolulate leaflets, serrulate or denticulate margins, and stipitate appendix.
10.2307/3391770|Xerophyta connata, a distinctive new species from the mountainous northwest of Madagascar, is described and illustrated. Its morphology and anatomy are compared to those of other members of the Velloziaceae.
20406186|La investigacin reciente de colecciones del gnero Weinmannia L. (Cunoniaceae) en la regin de los Yungas en La Paz, Bolivia, revelaron dos especies nuevas endmicas a la zona, que aqu nombramos y describimos como W. davidsonii A. Fuentes & Z. S. Rogers y W. yungasensis A. Fuentes & Z. S. Rogers. Weinmannia davidsonii es similar a W. bangii Rusby, y se diferencia por el ovario tomentoso (vs. glabro) y por la mayor cantidad de pubescencia en el envs de las hojas. Weinmannia yungasensis es prxima a W. dryadifolia Moricand ex Seringe, diferencindose por las hojas hasta 5-folioladas (vs. hasta 3-folioladas), las hojas simples de mayor tamao (0.9-3  0.8-2.5 cm vs. 1-2  0.6-- 1.2 cm), las estpulas glabras (vs. pubescentes) y por las inflorescencias mas largas (2--)3.5-5.5 (vs. 1-3(--3.5)) cm, que adems son laxas (vs. congestas). Ambas especies pertenecen a la seccin Weinmannia L. /// A recent investigation of Weinmannia L. (Cunoniaceae) material collected from the Yungas region of La Paz, Bolivia, has uncovered two new species, W. davidsonii A. Fuentes & Z. S. Rogers and W. yungasensis A. Fuentes & Z. S. Rogers, both endemic to the area. Weinmannia davidsonii is similar to W. bangii Rusby but differs most obviously by the tomentose (vs. glabrous) ovary and denser pubescence of the leaves. Weinmannia yungasensis is close to W. dryadifolia Moricand ex Seringe but is distinguished most notably by the leaves that are up to 5-foliolate (vs. up to 3-foliolate), the larger simple leaves (0.9-3  0.8-2.5 cm vs. 1-2  0.6-1.2 cm), the glabrous (vs. pubescent) stipules, and the lax (vs. congested) longer inflorescences ((2--)3.5-5.5 cm vs. 1-3(--3.5) cm). Both species belong to section Weinmannia L.
10.2307/3391920|The new combination Cleistocalyx nervosum (DC.) A. J. G. H. Kostermans var. paniala (Roxburgh) J. Parnell & P. Chantaranothai is made.
3393307| Psychotria carrascoana (Rubiaceae, Psychotrieae) is here described and illustrated. It is endemic to carrasco vegetation, a closed, shrubby, xerophilous vegetation on quartzitic sand soils, on the plateaus of the Serra da Ibiapaba and Serra do Araripe, at altitudes of 800 to 900 m, state of Cear, Brazil. Because of its reduced, triangular stipules, leaves drying pale green, commonly solitary flowers, and dorsally tricostate pyrenes, this species is placed in Psychotria subg. Heteropsychotria. 
10.2307/3391859|Agapetes subsessilifolia S. H. Huang, H. Sun & Z. K. Zhou, a new species of Ericaceae from the Gorge of Yalu Tsangpo, Medog, Tibet, in the eastern Himalayas, is described and illustrated.
20406313|Arthrostylidium berryi Judziewicz & Davidse (Poaceae, Bambusoideae, Bambuseae, Arthrostylidiinae), a new species from riversides, seasonally flooded white sand shrublands, and granitic lajas in lowland Venezuela and adjacent Colombia, is described and illustrated. It is easily distinguished from its South American congeners in Arthrostylidium Ruprecht by its strongly reflexed leaf blades and long (4-10 cm) spikelets with numerous (nine to 15) florets. /// Se describe e ilustra una especie nueva, Arthrostylidium berryi Judziewicz & Davidse (Poaceae, Bambusoideae, Bambuseae, Arthrostylidiinae), de Venezuela y Colombia, que crece en la cuenca del Ro Orinoco, en zonas arbustivas, peridicamente inundables, sobre arenas blancas y lajas granticas. Esta nueva especies se distingue fcilmente de todas las especies Sudamericanas del gnero Arthrostylidium Ruprecht, por tener las lminas foliares y caulinares muy reflejas y las espiguillas largas (4-- 10 cm) con antcios ms numerosos (nueve a 15).
10.2307/3393268| Mostuea muricata, an American species from a predominantly African genus, is described, illustrated, and compared with the African M. brunonis and the American M. surinamensis, from which it is distinguished mainly by its muricate fruits and rugose, glabrous, and viscose seeds. This species was collected in the Brazilian states of Mato Grosso and So Paulo, and its finding represents a southward extension of the range of Mostuea in South America, before now known only in Suriname and northern Brazil. /// Se describe y ilustra Mostuea muricata, una especie americana de un gnero principalmente africano. Se la compara con la especie africana M. brunonis y con la especie americana M. surinamensis, de las cuales se diferencia especialmente por sus frutos muricados y sus semillas rugosas, glabras y viscosas. Esta especie fue colectada en los estados brasileos de Mato Grosso y So Paulo, y su hallazgo representa una extensin austral del rea geogrfica del gnero en Sudamrica, que hasta ahora se conoca slo en Surinam y el norte de Brasil. 
10.2307/3393179|A new species of a caulescent Xanthosoma (X. riparium) from Serra Dourada, state of Gois, Brazil, is described and illustrated. Xanthosoma riparium is most similar to X. mafaffoides G. S. Bunting, X. undipes (Jacquin) Schott, and X. maximilianii Schott, but differs from all these species in having fewer primary lateral veins that arise at a more acute angle. Moreover, the primary lateral veins in X. riparium are close to each other near the sinus, becoming more scattered toward the apex, not regularly scattered along the midrib like in X. mafaffoides, X. maximilianii, and X. undipes. This new species appears to be the only caulescent Xanthosoma known to be native to central Brazil.
10.2307/3393010|A lectotype is indicated for Abrus melanospermus Hasskarl. Two new combinations are provided for widely distributed taxa of Abrus occurring in Central, West, and East Africa, Bolivia, Brazil, Venezuela, and New Caledonia. These nomenclatural clarifications are necessary antecedents for the consideration of this genus for Flora Zambesiaca.
3393323| Eugenia myrciariifolia, a new species from the southern Brazilian state of Paran, is described and illustrated. This species is related to Eugenia oeidocarpa, from which it is set apart by the presence of cataphylls on the twigs, elliptic to lanceolate leaves, smaller or absent pedicels, and axillary, pilose flowers. /// Eugenia myrciariifolia, uma nova espcie do estado do Paran, Brasil,  descrita e ilustrada. A nova espcie  prxima a Eugenia oeidocarpa, da qual se distingue pela presena de catfilos nos ramos, folhas elpticas a lanceoladas, pedicelos menores ou ausentes e flores axilares e pilosas. 
10.2307/3391418|A monographic study of the genus Salpichroa revealed a new species, S. microloba, and one taxon with a new status, S. glandulosa subsp. weddellii. These taxa are discussed and information on their probable relationships is given.
10.2307/3391787|Adenocalymma ubatubensis, a new species from southeastern coastal Brazil, is described and illustrated. The species is distinguished by its large pseudostipules and calyx without nectaries.
27765201|Se describe Lacmellea abbreviate J. F. Morales (Apocynaceae, Rauvolfioideae), una nueva especie endmica de Regin del Choc, Colombia. Este nuevo taxn se encuentra relacionado con L. panamensis (Woodson) Markgraf, de la que difiere por la forma de sus hojas (ovadas a ovado-elpticas vs. elpticas a angostamente elpticas), inflorescencias con menos flores (1  2 vs. 4 a 12), y corolas con los lbulos ms pequenos (3.54 mm vs. 611 mm). Se incluye una ilustracin, datos de distributin, especmenes examinados y se discuten las especies ms relacionadas. Lacmellea abbreviata J. F. Morales (Apocynaceae, Rauvolfioideae), a new species from the Choc region, Colombia, is described and illustrated. This new taxon is related to L panamensis (Woodson) Markgraf, but differs by the leaf shape (ovate to ovate-elliptic vs. elliptic to narrowly elliptic), few-flowered inflorescences (1 or 2 vs. 4 to 12), and shorter corolla lobes (3.54 mm vs. 6-11 mm). Distribution, specimens examined, and a discussion of taxonomic affinities are included here for the new species.
10.2307/3392953|Botanical explorations of heretofore poorly inventoried limestone formations in the northern Vietnamese border province of Ha Giang have yielded a new taxon of conifer that is to be classified in a cupressoid clade of Cupressaceae. It has foliage and ovuliferous cone characters that compare closely to Chamaecyparis nootkatensis (D. Don) Spach, as well as a feature peculiar to it and rare in conifers: the simultaneous occurrence of juvenile and mature leaves on normal plagiotropic branching systems of mature trees. It is proposed in this paper to unite C. nootkatensis with the newly discovered species in a new genus Xanthocyparis; of this new genus and species a full description and illustrations are provided. Additional contributions to this paper include observations on its habitat, conservation status, and a taxonomic discussion.
10.2307/3391589|Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie del gnero Affonsea, A. gereauana, proveniente de la regin amaznica alrededor de Iquitos, Per. No table por sus pecolos cortos, flores y hojas grandes, cliz, corola y carpelos pubrulos, y por su estigma cupuliforme, A. gereauana tiene parentesco con A. densiflora Bentham, de Bahia, Brasil. Esta nueva especie es el primer reporte para el gnero en el Per. /// A new species of Affonsea, A. gereauana, from Amazonian Peru near Iquitos, is described and illustrated. Notable for its short petioles, large leaves and flowers, puberulent calyx, corolla, and carpels, and finally, cupuliform stigma, A. gereauana is related to A. densiflora of Bahia, Brazil. This new species is the first report for the genus from Peru.
10.2307/3391520|Six new species of Adenocalymna are described from Brazil and French Guiana.
3393491|Studies for a forthcoming treatment of Rubiaceae for the Flora Mesoamericana project revealed an undescribed species from Honduras and also the necessity for four new combinations in Rondeletieae. The new species Arachnothryx nelsonii Lorence is described from Honduras. It is related to the glabrous Mexican species A. purpurea (Lorence) Borhidi from which it differs in having leaves sparsely strigillose on the costa, veins, and margins, flowers with a strigillose hypanthium and calyx, white externally strigillose corollas, and subglobose capsules. In addition, the following new combinations are proposed in Arachnothryx and Rogiera: Rondeletia myriantha Standley & Steyermark var. armentalis L. O. Williams is elevated to species level as Arachnothryx armentalis (L. O. Williams) Lorence; Rondeletia hondurensis Donnell Smith is transferred to Arachnothryx as Arachnothryx hondurensis (Donnell Smith) Lorence; Rondeletia megalantha is transferred to Arachnothryx as Arachnothryx megalantha (Lorence) Lorence; Rondeletia standleyana A. R. Molina is transferred to Rogiera as Rogiera standleyana (A. R. Molina) Lorence; and Rondeletia ovandensis Lundell is reduced to synonymy under Arachnothryx armentalis.
10.2307/3391655|A new leafless succulent species from Madagascar, Cynanchum crassipedicellatum, is described. Compared with the 25 succulent Cynanchum species of Madagascar, the new species exhibits numerous derived characters. It probably represents the sister taxon to C. descoingsii Rauh.
23018441|Inga pitmanii K. G. Dexter & T. D. Penn., a new species of Inga Mill. from Madre de Dios, Peru, is described for the Fabaceae (Mimosoideae). Morphologically it is closest to I. chartacea Poepp. & Endl., with which it shares a broadly winged rhachis, spicate inflorescence, glabrous leaves, nine to 10 pairs of secondary veins, and similar calyx indumentum. Inga pitmanii differs from I. chartacea in the leaflet number (four pairs vs. usually two or three pairs), the foliar nectaries (cyathiform vs. patelliform), and the larger flowers (with corollas 911.5 mm vs. 4.57 mm). Phylogenetic analyses show this species belongs to a clade including I. acreana Harms and I. chartacea. This species was discovered during field surveys for an ecological study of the genus Inga at the Los Amigos Biological Station in Madre de Dios, Peru. These field surveys uncovered several potentially novel species of the genus Inga, none of which matched any known species based on vegetative characters and the majority of which are genetically distinct. Here we describe I. pitmanii as this is the only species that was collected in a fertile state. Given current and future limitations in taxonomic expertise and funding, we advocate consideration of nonconventional approaches to species discovery, such as combining biodiversity surveys with large-scale DNA sequencing. This would in turn allow ecologists, who often collect plants in poorly known regions, to make a greater contribution to the species-discovery process. Inga pitmanii K. G. Dexter & T. D. Penn. es descrita como una nueva especie del gnero Inga Mill. de Madre de Dios, Per. Morfolgicamente es ms similar a I. chartacea Poepp. & Endl., con alas anchas en el rachis, inflorescencia espigada, hojas glabras, nueve a 10 nervios secundarios e indumento parecido en el cliz. Inga pitmanii se diferencia de I. chartacea por el nmero de fololos (cuatro pares vs. dos hasta tres), los nectarios foliares (ciatiformes vs. pateliformes), y las flores ms grandes (corola 911.5 mm vs. 4.57 mm). La especie fue descubierta durante los censos hechos para un estudio ecolgico del gnero Inga. Anlisis filogenticos muestran que esta especie forma parte de un grupo que incluye a I. acreana Harms e I. chartacea. Esta especia fue descubierta en censos de campo para un estudio ecolgico del gnero en la Estacin Biolgica Los Amigos, en Madre de Dios, Per. Estos censos descubrieron algunas especies de Inga potencialmente nuevas, que no coinciden en sus caractersticas vegetativas con ninguna de las especies de Inga conocidas hasta ahora. Adems, la mayora de estas especies demostraron ser distintas genticamente. Aqu se describe nicamente I. pitmanii, porque es la nica especie que se ha encontrado en estado frtil. Debido a las limitaciones que tanto la competencia como el financiamiento imponen a la taxonoma hoy en da, y stas aunadas a la convencin de describir especies nuevas solo y nicamente s son frtiles, sugerimos que deberan considerarse mtodos alternativos para descubrir nuevas especies, tales como la combinacin de censos de biodiversidad y las secuencias de ADN en una escala mayor. Esto, a su vez permitir a los eclogos que frecuentemente recolectan plantas en regiones poco conocidas, contribuir al descubrimiento de nuevas especies.
10.2307/3391941|A new species, Taxus fuana Nan Li & R. R. Mill, and two new varieties, Abies ferreana Bordres & Gaussen var. longibracteata L. K. Fu & Nan Li and Pinus kwangtungensis Chun ex Tsiang var. varifolia Nan Li & Y. C. Zhong, are described. Thirteen new combinations are proposed in the genera Abies, Keteleeria, Larix, Picea, Pinus, Pseudotsuga, Tsuga, Cephalotaxus, and Taxus.
10.2307/3391584|Seven new combinations in Urceola, U. xylinabariopsoides, U. huaitingii, U. micrantha, U. quintaretii, U. tournieri, U. rosea, and U. linearicarpa, are proposed.
40856290|A new species, Typhonium vermiforme V. D. Nguyen & Croat (Araceae), is described from living materials collected from Quang Binh Province in central Vietnam. It is similar to T. bachmaense V. D. Nguyen & Hett. and  trilobatum Schott, but differs from the first species by its much shorter spathe (ca. 9 cm long) and the distinctive, filiform and intertwining staminodes. It differs from the second species in having a solitary leaf and a pedate leaf blade.
10.2307/3392053|The Malagasy taxa of Sapotaceae formerly placed in the genera Austrogambeya, Donella, and Gambeya are provided with new combinations in the genus Chrysophyllum. A new species of Chrysophyllum from Madagascar is described with leaf venation intermediate between Austrogambeya and Gambeya, and Donella, and thus further confirms the merging of these genera with Chrysophyllum. /// Nous proposons des nouvelles combinaisons dans le genre Chrysophyllum (Sapotaceae) pour les taxons malgaches prcdemment placs dans les genres Austrogambeya, Donella, et Gambeya. Une nouvelle espce de Chrysophyllum de Madagascar est dcrite. Sa nervation est intermdiaire entre celle des Austrogambeya et Gambeya et celle de Donella et confirme le regroupement de ces genres sous Chrysophyllum.
10.2307/3391955|Two new species of Fuchsia sect. Fuchsia (Onagraceae) from the Andes of southern Ecuador are described and illustrated. Fuchsia campii P. E. Berry is known from mid-elevation cloud forest of Azuay and Loja Provinces, and Fuchsia summa P. E. Berry is a high-elevation species currently known only from Loja Province. Both occur in Podocarpus National Park, together with several other rare species of Fuchsia.
10.2307/3392954|We demonstrate that the correct names for three species of section Racemosae of the Afro-Magadagascan genus Aristea are: Aristea capitata (L.) Ker Gawler, A. bracteata Persoon, and A. bakeri Klatt. A neotype is selected for Gladiolus capitatus L. (1753), the basionym of A. capitata (L.) Ker Gawler (1802). Aristea major Andrews (1801) is placed in taxonomic synonymy with A. capitata. The typification and identity of Ixia thyrsiflora D. Delaroche (1766), basionym of Aristea thyrsiflora (D. Delaroche) N. E. Brown (1929), often regarded as conspecific with A. major, remain in question; however, due to priority of publication of the basionyms A. thyrsiflora presents no threat to the stability of A. capitata. Weimarck effectively lectotypified the superfluous and illegitimate name Moraea caerulea Thunberg (1787), basionym of Aristea caerulea (Thunberg) Vahl (1805). Aristea bracteata Persoon (1805) is accepted as a replacement name for M. caerulea, and is the oldest legitimate name available for this species. Aristea monticola Goldblatt (1971) was also published as a replacement name for M. caerulea, and thus falls into synonymy with A. bracteata. Aristea bakeri Klatt (1894) was published as a replacement name for the illegitimate later homonym A. paniculata Baker (1892). Aristea macrocarpa G. J. Lewis (1940) and A. confusa Goldblatt (1970) are placed in taxonomic synonymy with A. bakeri.
10.2307/3393231|Phacelia filiae N. D. Atwood, F. J. Smith & T. A. Knight is an undescribed species from Clark, Nye, and Lincoln Counties, Nevada. It is closely related to Phacelia parishii of California, Arizona, and Nevada and Phacelia beatleyae of southern Nevada. Phacelia petrosa N. D. Atwood, F. J. Smith & T. A. Knight from Arizona, Nevada, and Utah is also described as new. It is most closely related to Phacelia crenulata, which is known from Arizona, California, Nevada, and Utah. The most prominent differences among these species are the shape of the seeds and appearance of the seed coats.
20406019|Thirteen combinations at subspecific rank are effected for North American Campanulaceae, in preparation for a forthcoming world checklist of the family. Twelve were recognized most recently at varietal rank within the same species to which they are here assigned: Diastatea virgata subsp. ciliata (McVaugh) Lammers, Githopsis diffusa subsp. guadalupensis (Morin) Lammers, Heterotoma lobelioides subsp. glabra (T. J. Ayers) Lammers, Lobelia assurgens subsp. santa-clarae (McVaugh) Lammers, Lobelia berlandieri subsp. brachypoda (A. Gray) Lammers, Lobelia ehrenbergii subsp. gracilens (A. Gray) Lammers, Lobelia flexuosa subsp. intermedia (Hemsley) Lammers, Lobelia gruina subsp. peduncularis (McVaugh) Lammers, Lobelia irasuensis subsp. fucata (McVaugh) Lammers, Lobelia irasuensis subsp. picta (B. L. Robinson & Seaton) Lammers, Palmerella debilis subsp. serrata (A. Gray) Lammers, and Triodanis perfoliata subsp. biflora (Ruiz & Pavn) Lammers. Downingia humilis Greene has been recognized as a distinct species or subsumed without recognition into D. pusilla (G. Don ex A. DC.) Torrey; however, its pattern of variation makes its recognition as Downingia pusilla subsp. humilis (Greene) Lammers more appropriate.
20406068|A new species of Cytinus L., C. visseri Burgoyne, a root holoparasite from Limpopo and Mpumalanga Provinces of South Africa and from Swaziland is described. Morphological and phenological differences separate it from the two existing South African species. The distributional range of C. visseri is also highly disjunct compared to that of the other two species, and the species is considered vulnerable (VU D2). Fruit morphology is described in detail for the new species; this is a first for the genus, as previous descriptions were based on flowering material only, and therefore fruit comparisons to the other South African species are not yet possible. A key to all known southern African species is given.
23018499|Two species of Marantaceae, Calathea matudae H. Kenn. & Ganders from Chiapas, Mexico, to Honduras, and C. sousandradeana H. Kenn. & Ganders from Veracruz and Oaxaca, Mexico, are described as new for inclusion in Flora Mesoamericana. Calathea matudae differs from C. atropurpurea Matuda in lacking reduced basal inflorescences, the bract acumen that is shorter and acute at the tip, the bracts that consistently dry brown, and the cross veins between the lateral veins of the leaves that are farther apart (15 to 20 per 5 mm vs. 23 to 30 per 5 mm in C. atropurpurea). Calathea sousandradeana differs from C. matudae and C. atropurpurea by the smaller, glabrous bracts with obtuse to rounded margins in the upper ones. A key is provided to the Mexican species in Calathea sect. Breviscapus Benth. Dos especies de Marantaceae, Calathea matudae H. Kenn. & Ganders de Chiapas en Mxico hasta Honduras, y C. sousandradeana H. Kenn. & Ganders de Veracruz y Oaxaca en Mxico, se describen como nuevas para su inclusin en la Flora Mesoamericana. Calathea matudae es diferente de C. atropurpurea Matuda en no tener inflorescencias basales reducidas, el acumen de la brctea mas corto, agudo en el pice, las brcteas secan consistentemente de color caf, y los nervios transversales entre los nervios laterales de la hoja son ms separados (15 hasta 20 por cada 5 mm vs. 23 hasta 30 por cada 5 mm en C. atropurpurea). Calathea sousandradeana es diferente de C. matuda y C. atropurpurea en las brcteas ms pequeas y glabras con el margen apical obtuso hasta redondo en los brcteas superiores. Se proporciona una clave para las especies mexicanas de Calathea sect. Breviscapus Benth.
10.2307/3391476|Agnesia lancifolia from Amazonian South America is described and illustrated. A table distinguishing the new genus from related taxa is given.
20406279|The new genus Sinopora J. Li, N. H. Xia & H. W. Li is reported for the Lauraceae from Hong Kong in South China and is based on Syndiclis hongkongensis N. H. Xia, Y. F. Deng & K. L. Yip. The new genus is distinguished from Syndiclis Hooker f. by its trimerous flowers. The new genus is similar to Hexapora Hooker f., but its anthers are originally introrse and tubular, with two anther cells near each other and apically opening by minute pores, the staminodes as large as the stamens, but not produced above the stamens.
10.2307/3393203| Paspalum burmanii, native to central Brazil, is described as a new species in subgenus Ceresia. The new species is morphologically related to P. humboldtianum Flgg, P buchtienii Hackel, and P. phyllorachys Hackel by features of its inflorescences, spikelets, and upper anthecium texture and ornamentation. The new species is illustrated and compared with several putatively related taxa. A key to all related species is provided. 
43288950|A new species, Stephania novenanthera Heng-Chang Wang (Menispermaceae), from Xia-shi, Ping-xiang County, Guangxi Province, China, is described and illustrated. The new species is similar to the sympatric species S. kuinanensis H. S. Lo & M. Yang, 5. kwangsiensis H. S. Lo, and S. micrantha H. S. Lo & M. Yang by several characters, such as the tuberous root, the deltoid to rounded leaves, and the compound, umbelliform cymes. Stephania novenanthera differs from all species in Stephania Lour, in China by its nine anthers.
10.2307/3393034|Revisionary studies of Roldana show that the following new combinations should be made: R. anisophylla (Klatt) Funston, R. gonzalezi (B. L. Turner) Funston, R. hirsuticaulis (Greenman) Funston, R. mezquitlanensis (B. L. Turner) Funston, R. neogibsonii (B. L. Turner) Funston, and R. sundbergii (B. L. Turner) Funston. The species R. tlacotepecana Funston was also discovered and is newly described here. It is a small perennial herb with a 1- to 3-headed paniculate cyme and radiate capitula. The distribution is restricted to the pine-oak forests of Cerro Teotepec in the mpio. Tlacotepeca, Guerrero, Mexico.
10.2307/3392186|A new large-fruited species of Lauraceae is described and illustrated here. Ocotea morae is found on the Cordillera de Tilarn, Costa Rica. /// Una especie nueva de Lauraceae de frutos muy grandes se describe y se ilustra en este artculo. Ocotea morae se encuentra en las faldas de la Cordillera de Tilarn, Costa Rica.
20406206|A new species of Astragalus L. (Fabaceae), A. gooraiensis L. B. Chaudhary, is described and illustrated from Jammu and Kashmir in India. The new species differs from A. tibetanus Bentham ex Bunge in shorter flowers (11-12 mm), shorter and campanulate calyx (4-5 mm), and oblong, straight, and unilocular pods with the stipe more or less equal to the calyx tube.
20406090|During preparation of the account of Bolbitidaceae for the Flora of China, volume 3, it was noticed that one species accepted in some earlier treatments is based on an illegitimate combination, Bolbitis bipinnatifida (J. Smith) K. Iwatsuki, not Bolbitis bipinnatifida (Kuhn) Ching. The following replacement name is proposed here: Bolbitis longiaurita F. G. Wang & F. W. Xing.
10.2307/3392253|Cyrillopsis micrantha (Steyermark) P. E. Berry & N. Ramrez is a new combination based on Ochthocosmus micranthus Steyermark and constitutes only the second known species of Cyrillopsis (Ixonanthaceae). The number of varieties in Ochthocosmus roraimae Bentham is reduced from three to two, and Ochthocosmus parvifolius Hallier f. is treated as a species of uncertain status, with no known extant type material.
40960835|The nomenclatural status of all published plant names applicable to American Thymelaeaceae at the rank of genus and below is evaluated. Thirtytwo of the 256 published names at specific and infraspecific ranks require effective typifications. Lectotypes are designated for 29 names: Daphne lagetto Sw., D. macrophylla Kunth, D. occidentalis Sw., D. pillopillo Gay, Daphnopsis bogotensis Meisn., D. brasiliensis Mart., D. caracasana Meisn., D. caribaea Griseb. var. ecuadorensis Domke, D. coriacea Taub., D. decidua Domke, D. ekmanii Domke, D. ericiflora Gilg & Markgr., D. longifolia Taub., D. longipedunculata Gilg ex Domke, D. longiracemosa Gilg ex Domke, D. martii Meisn., D. purpusii Brandegee var. ehrenbergii Domke, D. racemosa Griseb., D. sessiliflora Griseb. ex Taub., D. zamorensis Domke, Goodallia guianensis Benth., G. guianensis var. parvifolia Benth., Lagetta funifera Mart. & Zuce, (epitype also designated), Linostoma albifolium Barb. Rodr., Lophostoma bolleanum Domke, Schoenobiblus coriaceus Domke, S. daphnoides Mart., S. ellipticus Pilg., and S. peruvianas Standl. Neotypes are designated for three names: Daphnopsis crassifolia (Poir.) Meisn. var. egger sii Krug & Urb., D. pseudosalix Domke, and D. selerorum Gilg.
10.2307/3393057|Se proponen dos nuevas combinaciones para el gnero Corynabutilon desde Abutilon; Corynabutilon hirsutum (Philippi) A. Marticorena y Corynabutilon viride (Philippi) A. Marticorena. Se incluyen descripciones completas de ambas especies debido a que slo se tienen las originales, y una clave dicotmica para la separacin de las siete especies. /// Two new combinations in the genus Corynabutilon from Abutilon, Corynabutilon hirsutum (Philippi) A. Marticorena and Corynabutilon viride (Philippi) A. Marticorena, are proposed. Full descriptions are included for both species, because only the original descriptions are available. A dichotom ous key for recognizing the seven species is included.
10.2307/3393566|Orobanche filicicola, invalidly named by Nakai, is nomenclaturally validated. It is related to O. pycnostachya and O. amurensis but differs markedly from them by its corolla color, style pubescence, and overall small size.
10.2307/3392178|Scleria amazonica Camelbeke, Strong & Goetghebeur, from Amazonas, Venezuela, is described and illustrated. It differs from other South American species of Scleria in the presence of unisexual inflorescences. Among species of Scleria from the Venezuelan Guayana region it differs in the following combination of characters: the presence of a conspicuously upward pointing V-shaped ligule of dense hairs and coarsely reticulated achenes.
10.2307/3392251|New taxa of Aristida include three related to A. schiedeana Trinius & Ruprecht (A. petersonii sp. nov., A. eludens sp. nov., and A. spanospicula sp. nov.) and one variety of A. purpurea Nuttall (var. perplexa var. nov.). Two species are reduced in rank (A. schiedeana var. orcuttiana [Vasey] comb. nov. and A. purpurea forma brownii [Warnock] comb. nov.), and one species is reinstated (A. curvifolia Fournier). A key is given for the A. schiedeana complex. /// Nuevos taxa de Aristida que incluyen tres especies con las aristas laterales reducidas, relacionadas con A. schiedeana Trinius & Ruprecht (A. petersonii sp. nov., A. eludens sp. nov., y A. spanospicula sp. nov.) y una variedad con las aristas laterales desarrolladas de A. purpurea Nuttall (var. perplexa var. nov.) son descritos. Dos especies son reducidas en rango (A. schiedeana var. orcuttiana [Vasey] comb. nov. y A. purpurea forma brownii [Warnock] comb. nov.) y una especie es reinstalada (A. curvifolia Fournier). Una clave para el complejo A. schiedeana es presentada.
41811681|Gentianella undulatisepala J. S. Pringle, a new species from Bolivia, is described for the Gentianaceae. It is distinguished from other solitaryflowered species in La Paz Department by its long pedicels and the undulate margins of its calyx lobes. Gentianella arenarioides (Gilg) J. S. Pringle is restored to accepted taxonomic status, with the name neotypified, and the new nomenclatural combination is published. Se describe por las Gencianceas Gentianella undulatisepala J. S. Pringle, una nueva especie de Bolivia. Se diferencia de las otras especies de flores solitarias en el Departamento de La Paz por los pedicelos largos y los mrgenes ondulados de los lbulos del cliz. Gentianella arenarioides (Gilg) J. S. Pringle se restaura al estado taxonmico aceptado, con el nombre neotypificado, y la combinacin de nomenclatura nueva se publica.
10.2307/3393016|Valeriana eupatoria, a new species native to Araucaria forests from upland Rio Grande do Sul, southern Brazil, is described and illustrated. It is apparently related to V. chamaedryfolia, from which it is set apart chiefly by its larger inflorescences and non-lobate, pubescent, and larger leaves. /// Se describe e ilustra Valeriana eupatoria, una nueva especie nativa de los bosques montanos de Araucaria de Rio Grande do Sul, en el sur de Brasil. La especie aparentemente est relacionada con V. chamaedryfolia, de la cual se diferencia principalmente por las inflorescencias ms grandes y sus hojas no lobadas, enteras, pubescentes y ms grandes.
10.2307/3392211|Morphological characters support the description of two new species of Ormocarpopsis from Madagascar: O. itremoensis Du Puy & Labat from the Itremo Massif (Central Region) and O. tulearensis Du Puy & Labat from the dry region around Tulear (Toliara) in the southwest of the island. A new combination is made for Ormocarpum bernierianum (Baillon) Du Puy & Labat. /// L'tude des caractres morphologiques permet la description de deux nouvelles espces d'Ormocarpopsis de Madagascar: O. itremoensis Du Puy & Labat du Massif de l'Itremo (Rgion Centrale) et O. tulearensis Du Puy & Labat de la rgion sche autour de Tulear (Toliara), dans le sud-ouest de l'le. Une nouvelle combinaison est faite pour Ormocarpum bernierianum (Baillon) Du Puy & Labat.
20406043|Manekia Trelease is recognized as an earlier name for Sarcorhachis Trelease (Piperaceae). After examination of available herbarium material, including appropriate type specimens, it is clear that Manekia and Sarcorhachis are taxonomic synonyms. New combinations are made for four species of Manekia originally described in the genus Sarcorhachis: Manekia incurva (Sieber ex Schultes) Arias, Callejas & Bornstein, Manekia obtusa (Miquel) Arias, Callejas & Bornstein, Manekia sydowii (Trelease) Arias, Callejas & Bornstein, and Manekia venezuelana (Steyermark) Arias, Callejas & Bornstein. The following names newly synonymize: Sarcorhachis obtusa (Miquel) Trelease var. cordata Yuncker and Sarcorhachis sydowii Trelease var. hirsuta Yuncker. Additionally, a lectotype is designated for Manekia sydowii (Trelease) Arias, Callejas & Bornstein. /// Manekia Trelease se reconoce como un nombre ms antiguo para Sarcorhachis Trelease (Piperaceae). Despus de examinar material de herbario, incluyendo especmenes tipo apropiados, es evidente que Manekia y Sarcorhachis son sinnimos taxonmicos. Se incluyen nuevas combinaciones para cuatro especies de Manekia originalmente descritas como Sarcorhachis: Manekia incurva (Sieber ex Schultes) Arias, Manekia obtusa (Miquel) Arias, Callejas & Bornstein, Manekia sydowii (Trelease) Arias, Callejas & Bornstein, Manekia venezuelana (Steyermark) Arias, Callejas & Bornstein. Los siguientes nombres se reconocen como sinnimos nuevos: Sarcorhachis obtusa (Miquel) Trelease var. cordata Yuncker, Sarcorhachis sydowii Trelease var. Hirsuta Yuncker. Adicionalmente, se designa un lectotipo para Manekia sydowii (Trelease) Arias, Callejas & Bornstein.
10.2307/3391807|A new species of Votomita from southern Venezuela is described, illustrated, and distinguished from its relatives on the basis of fruiting material; certain useful floral characters can also be determined from the specimen. The new species illustrates a general condition in subfamily Memecyleae, i.e., a relatively large number of ovules is produced yet only one or a few large seeds are formed. Ovule and seed numbers are discussed, seed volumes are calculated for Mouriri and Votomita, and possible explanations for the differences are explored.
20406055|Gonocalyx lilliae (Ericaceae), a new species endemic to Costa Rica, is described and illustrated. This new species is somewhat similar to G. costaricensis, sharing similar shape and leaf size, racemose inflorescences, short rachis, inconspicuous bracteoles, and flowers with the hypanthium terete to subterete, with inconspicuous calyx lobes. However, G. costaricensis is separated by its glabrous leaves, flowers, and fruits; inconspicuous inflorescence bracts; and stamens with free filaments. A brief synopsis and a key to the species of the genus in Costa Rica are given. /// Se describe e ilustra Gonocalyx lilliae (Ericaceae), una nueva especie endmica de Costa Rica. El nuevo taxn se encuentra relacionado a G. costaricensis, por el tamao y forma de sus hojas, las inflorescencias racemosas con el raquis corto, las bractolas inconspicuas, las flores con el hipanto terete a subterete y con los lbulos del cliz reducidos. Sin embargo, G. costaricensis se diferencia por sus hojas, flores y frutos glabrescentes, las brcteas de las inflorescencias inconspicuas y los estambres con filamentos libres. Se provee una breve sinopsis y una clave para las especies del gnero en Costa Rica.
3393345|We discuss the history and circumscription of the genus Rytigynia (Rubiaceae, Vanguerieae) and present the morphological characters used for the delimitation of the genus in a new, restricted sense. We describe Rytigynia dichasialis, a new species from northeastern Tanzania that is unique in the genus by having long-pedunculate and dichasially cymose inflorescences with well-developed secondary axes. We compare the new species to other, morphologically similar species of Rytigynia and present the characters used to distinguish among them.
10.2307/3391381|New infraspecific taxa of two species of Clitoria subg. Neurocarpum sect. Tanystyloba (Leguminosae) from Southeast Asia are described. New taxa include: Clitoria hanceana var. latifolia (Thailand), variety petiolata (Cambodia), and variety thailandica (Thailand); and Clitoria macrophylla var. sericea (Thailand) and variety stipulacea (Thailand). Clitoria hanceana var. hanceana (China) and C. macrophylla var. macrophylla (Burma, Vietnam) are circumscribed. The circumscription of Clitoria hanceana var. laureola (Vietnam) is emended with the exclusion of two of the four syntypes.
10.2307/3391966|Six new combinations with change of status are proposed to reflect the interrelationship as well as the singularity of the taxa: Dalbergia glabra var. chontalensis, D. glabra var. paucifoliolata, D. retusa var. cuscatlanica, D. retusa var. hypoleuca, D. retusa var. lineata, and D. retusa var. pacifica. One variety, D. calderonii var. molinae, is described as new.
20406104|Dendropanax caudatus Fiaschi, a new species from the rain forests of Esprito Santo, Brazil, is here described and illustrated. It resembles D. bahiensis Fiaschi, from which it can be distinguished by its smaller fruits and by the leaf blades, which have caudate to long-acuminate apices. /// Dendropanax caudatus Fiaschi, uma espcie nova de matas ombrfilas do Esprito Santo, Brasil,  aqui descrita e ilustrada. Esta espcie  provavelmente relacionada a D. bahiensis Fiaschi, da qual pode ser distinta pelos frutos menores, e pelas lminas foliares com pice caudado a longo-acuminado.
40300901|Matelea quindecimlobata Farinaccio & W. D. Stevens, a new species of Asclepiadoideae, Apocynaceae, from Amazonas, Brazil, is described and illustrated. The most diagnostic aspect of this new species of Matelea Aublet s. str. is the lobed, then fimbriate outer margin of the outer corona. /// Matelea quindecimlobata Farinaccio & W. D. Stevens, uma nova espcie de Asclepiadoideae, Apocynaceae, do Amazonas, Brasil,  descrita e ilustrada. Apresenta a margem externa dos segmentos da corona lobado-fimbriada, caracterstica diagnstica, que a distingue das espcies relacionadas a Matelea Aublet s. str.
10.2307/3392007|A new species of Rustia from Ecuador (Esmeraldas Province), R. bilsana, is described and illustrated. The new species is represented by trees endemic to the cloud forests of northwestern Ecuador, and is easily recognizable by having floral buds pointed at the apex, capsules widely obovoid, inflorescences 16-26 cm long, and purple corollas. /// Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie de Rustia del Ecuador (Provincia de Esmeraldas), R. bilsana. La nueva especie est representada por rboles endmicos de los bosques nublados del Noroeste del Ecuador, y es fcilmente distinguible por sus botones florales agudos, cp sulas anchamente obovoides, inflorescencias 16-26 cm de largo y corolas color prpura.
20406137|Waltheria belizensis J. G. Saunders, a new distinctive Sterculiaceae species known only from Mountain Pine Ridge National Forest Reserve, Cayo District, Belize, and potentially distylous by floral morphology, is described and illustrated. It is placed in section Waltheria L. in the W. cinerescens A. St.-Hilaire alliance by its penicillate stigma and loculicidal capsule with an extensive corneous endocarp. It is closest to the distylous W. petiolata K. Schumann in Martius from Brazil (Rio de Janeiro) by the decomposite inflorescences; the shape, venation, and vestiture of calyces; and the shapes of petal apices and seeds. Waltheria belizensis differs from W. petiolata by leaves with minute, appressed vestiture, revolute teeth margins, and a greater number of lateral veins; corymbiform inflorescences; and a seed less lobed and less pusticulate. The contrasting characters are detailed in a key. Thrum-like pollen of W. belizensis and thrum pollen of confirmed W. petiolata are reported for the first time. These data suggest the thrum-like pollen of the Belizean species is less derived than that of the Brazilian one. A key is provided to separate W. belizensis from the only other species of Waltheria in Belize, W. indica L. s.l. The present and additional studies concur with previous exclusion of W. glomerata C. Presl from the flora of Belize, based solely on Dwyer & Liesner 12292, the type of W. belizensis. Other Belizean plant endemics found in the Mountain Pine Ridge National Forest Reserve are listed, and the region is discussed.
10.2307/3391882|Dubautia kenwoodii G. Carr from the Hawaiian Island of Kaua'i is described and illustrated. The new species is distinguished from congeners by virtue of its combination of uniseriate, peripheral, very firmly coalescent receptacular bracts, cymose-glomerate capitula, and coriaceous, lustrous leaves with sharply cartilaginous-toothed margins and abruptly narrowed, broadly clasping bases.
10.2307/3391376|The Central American plants previously known as Aristolochia thwaitesii Hooker are described as new and given the name Aristolochia stevensii Barringer. The name A. thwaitesii is correctly used for a Chinese species.
10.2307/3392981|The Indian endemic Cochlearia cochlearioides, initially described as an Alyssum, is transferred to Rorippa, and the new combination R. cochlearioides (Roth) Al-Shehbaz & Jonsell is proposed.
10.2307/3393079|Megacorax gracielanus, a distinctive new genus and species from the Sierra de Coneto in central Durango, Mexico, is described and illustrated. Its distinctive characters include: leaves linear, petals presented to one side of the flower, and capsule wall thin and distended by the seeds. It appears to be most closely related to Lopezia Cavanilles based on possession of 4-merous flowers, deciduous sepals, a capitate stigma, stipules, and a tendency toward the structural zygomorphy in the flowers found in Lopezia. In addition, the capsules of Megacorax gracielanus are very similar in shape and structure to the capsules of certain species of Lopezia. Because Megacorax has distinctive morphological characters and does not have the unique synapomorphies of Lopezia (2 fertile stamens or 1 fertile stamen and 1 staminode, and petals unequal), it is here described as a related genus. /// Megacorax gracielanus, un nuevo gnero y especie notoriamente diferente, se describe e ilustra a partir de material colectado en la Sierra de Coneto, en el centro de Durango, Mxico. Sus caracteres distintivos incluyen hojas lineares, ptalos orientados hacia un lado de la flor, y pared de la cpsula delgada y distendida por las semillas. El nuevo taxn parece estar ms cercanamente relacionado a Lopezia, gnero con el que comparte los caracteres de flores tetrmeras, spalos deciduos, estigma capitado, y estpulas. Manifiesta una tendencia hacia la zigomorfia estructural de las flores que se presenta en Lopezia, y sus cpsulas son muy similares en forma y estructura a las cpsulas de algunas especies de ese gnero. Debido a que Megacorax tiene caracteres morfolgicos distintivos y no presenta las sinapomorfias nicas de Lopezia (2 estambres frtiles o 1 estambre frtil y un estaminodio, y ptalos desiguales o iguales) se describe aqu como un gnero relacionado.
10.2307/3391593|Zinowiewia is a small neotropical genus of 17 species. Two species are reported to occur in Ecuador: Zinowiewia australis Lundell and the new Zinowiewia madsenii C. Ulloa & P. M. Jrgensen. A key to the Ecuadorian species, descriptions, and an illustration of the new species are provided.
23018459|Two new species of Uvaria L. (Annonaceae), U. beccarii Attanayake, I. M. Turner & R. M. K. Saunders and U. curvistipitata Attanayake, I. M. Turner & R. M. K. Saunders, are described and illustrated from Borneo. Uvaria beccarii is closely allied to a Peninsular Malaysian species, U. curtisii King, from which it differs in having distinctively nonapiculate, obovoid monocarps with a blunt, irregularly muricate surface and fewer seeds per monocarp. Uvaria curvistipitata closely resembles U. javana Dunal from Peninsular Malaysia, Sumatra, Java, and Borneo, as both species have a velutinous indument on many organs. Uvaria curvistipitata differs, however, in its red flowers and smaller, fewer-seeded globose to subglobose monocarps that are borne on longer, curved stipes. A new nomenclatural combination, U. clementis (Merr.) Attanayake, I. M. Turner & R. M. K. Saunders, is furthermore validated, based on the previously overlooked name Artabotrys clementis Merr., providing a legitimate name in Uvaria for the species. The names U. clementis and U. parviflora Hook. f. & Thomson are lectotypified here.
10.2307/3392011|Hymenocallis clivorum is a new member of the Amaryllidaceae from southern Sonora, Mexico. It is unusual in the genus in that it occurs on steep slopes in a semi-arid environment. /// Hymenocallis clivorum es una nueva especie de las Amaryllidceas del sur de Sonora, Mxico. Es excepcional en el gnero en que se halla sobre las inclinaciones empinadas en ambiente semirido.
10.2307/3392056|A recent collection of a lauraceous tree sent to me for identification represents an undescribed species of Ocotea. It is here described as O. ikonyokpe and is contrasted with the other African species of that genus.
20406299|Se describe una especie nueva, Habranthus medinae L. O. Alvarado & Garca-Mendoza (Amaryllidaceae, Hippeastreae), del estado de Puebla, Mxico. La especie nueva es parecida a H. tubispathus (L'Hritier) Traub, pero se puede distinguir por el mayor tamao de las estructuras florales y sus anteras pardas. Se proporciona tambin una clave para la identificacin de las especies mexicanas de Habranthus Herbert. /// A new species, Habranthus medinae L. O. Alvarado & Garca-Mendoza (Amaryllidaceae, Hippeastreae), from the state of Puebla, Mexico, is described. The new species is similar to H. tubispathus (L'Hritier) Traub, but can be distinguished by the larger size of the floral structures and its brown anthers. A key to the Mexican species of Habranthus Herbert is provided.
20406140|Two new species, Festuca renvoizei Stank and F. urubambana Stank (Poaceae, Loliinae), from the Peruvian Andes are described. Festuca renvoizei (subg. Festuca L. sect. Festuca L.) comes from the pramo (jalca) zone of northern Peru, while F. urubambana (subg. Erosiflorae E. B. Alexeev) grows in humid mountain forests in southern Peru (Cuzco region). Both species are endemic to Peru. Data for evaluation of IUCN conservation status are deficient, but both species seem to be rare and probably vulnerable. /// Se presentan dos especies nuevas, Festuca renvoizei Stank y F. urubambana Stank (Poaceae, Loliinae), endmicas de los Andes del Per. La especie F. renvoizei pertenece al subgnero Festuca L. sect. Festuca L. y se conoce de la zona paramna (jalca) del norte del Per. La especie F. urubambana es un representante del subgnero Erosiflorae E. B. Alexeev, endmica de los valles de la zona del bosque hmedo altoandino de la regin de Cuzco. No hay datos suficientes para la evaluacin del estado de conservacin y vulnerabilidad de la UICN. Sin embargo parece que se trata de especies raras y probablemente vulnerables.
20406109|The new species Combretum wilksii Jongkind from Gabon is described. The species belongs to Combretum Loefling sect. Combretum. The combination of the almost flat upper receptacle, the subcircular, glabrous petals ca. 2 mm long, and the glabrous disk distinguishes this species from all other Combretum species in Africa and, more particularly, from related Gabonese species such as C. scandens Liben, C. polyanthum Jongkind, and C. demeusii De Wildeman.
10.2307/3392042|Subspecies is the only infraspecific rank included in the Alismatidae in the Flora of North America. All new combinations for taxa in North America are proposed herein for use in this Flora: Potamogeton pusillus subsp. tenuissimus, P. pusillus subsp. gemmiparus, P. foliosus subsp. fibrillosus, Sagittaria graminea subsp. chapmanii, S. graminea subsp. weatherbiana, Najas guadalupensis subsp. olivacea, N. guadalupensis subsp. floridana, and N. guadalupensis subsp. muenscheri.
23259341|Certain material of Stachytarpheta Vahl (Verbenaceae), mostly from the Caribbean coast of Central America (from Honduras to Panama), apparently related to S. calderonii Moldenke and S. indica (L.) Vahl, but consistently misidentified as S. jamaicensis (L.) Vahl, has been identified as S. friedrichsthalii Hayek. Examination of both syntypes of the latter name (Fendler 219, MO; Friedrichsthal 466, W) confirms that the calyx is more or less bilobed, versus 4-toothed in S. jamaicensis, under which S. friedrichsthalii has erroneously been placed in synonymy. One of the two sheets of Friedrichsthal 466 (W)the one corresponding to Field Museum negative 34320is chosen as the lectotype. Contrary to recent suggestion, the latest lectotypification of Verbena indica L. (on a portion of LINN 35.1) is found to be consistent with its protologue, and the consequent synonymy of S. angustifolia (Mill.) Vahl under S. indica is here accepted. Furthermore, it is suggested that S. friedrichsthalii may also be the correct name for some African material that has been included in S. indica (in much the same way S. friedrichsthalii has been found among Central American material of S. jamaicensis).
10.2307/3391940|Diospyros hartmanniana, of cloud forests in Panama and Costa Rica, and Diospyros whitei, of lowland forests in central and eastern Panama, are described and illustrated. Their similarities to and differences from other Mesoamerican species of Diospyros are discussed.
10.2307/3393053|Two new species are described in the neotropical genus Aciotis. Aciotis wurdackiana is an herbaceous species with narrow chartaceous leaves, a dense cymose inflorescence, and chartaceous ovary walls, and is distributed in the northern state of Par in Brazil. Aciotis olivieriana is an herbaceous species characterized by cordate and papery leaves, a lax cymose inflorescence, and coriaceous ovary walls, and is distributed in the lowlands of northwestern South America. /// Se describen dos nuevas especies del gnero neotropical Aciotis. Aciotis wurdackiana es una especie herbcea con hojas angostas cartceas, inflorescencia cimosa densa, paredes del ovario cartceas, y distribuda nicamente en el estado de Par al norte del Brasil. Aciotis olivieriana es una especie herbcea caracterizada por las hojas cordadas y papirceas, inflorescencia cimosa laxa, paredes del ovario coriceas y distribuda en las tierras bajas del noroeste de Amrica del Sur.
10.2307/3393200|Commelina polhillii Faden & Alford, a new annual species of Commelina with buff-orange flowers, is described from Tanzania. It differs from the similar C. subulata primarily in seed morphology. However, staminode shape, the presence of basal lobes on the medial anther connective, and differences in spathe pubescence also serve to varying extent to distinguish the two taxa. Leaf anatomy reveals one major difference but primarily helps to unite the two species with a group of approximately seven other species. A preliminary chromosome count, 2n = ca. 30, is recorded.
10.2307/3391492|Five new species of Solanum sect. Geminata are described from Peru and Ecuador: S. clivorum, S. goniocaulon, S. malletii, S. smithii, and S. tovarii. Relationships within section Geminata are discussed, and an illustration and distribution map are provided for each species.
27765232|Rhodiola wenchuanensis Tao Li & Hao Zhang (Crassulaceae) is described and illustrated from Wenchuan County, in western Sichuan Province, China. The new species is related to R. discolor (Franch.) S. H. Fu, but differs in having smaller plants with densely puberulent stems and pedicels and sessile leaves. It is characterized by its obviously dentate leaf margins; a petal to stamen length ratio less than or equal to 1; crimson sepals, petals, and ripe fruits; and a carpel that is not developed in the staminate flower. The new species is assigned to series Bupleuroides (Frodin) S. H. Fu within section Rhodiola L. on the basis of its dioecy and its flowers in terminal corymbs with four or five erect, shortly oblong carpels with the apex not revolute and the base broad.
20406345|Micromeria brownei var. ludens Shinners is recognized at the rank of species and transferred to Clinopodium L. Shinners distinguished variety ludens from other M. brownei (Swartz) Bentham based on its "hispid-ciliate" calyx teeth. While this character seems to be variable over the entire geographic range of C. brownei (Swartz) Kuntze, C. ludens (Shinners) A. Pool is unique in possessing narrowly ellipsoid nutlets, which are apically rostrate, supporting its recognition at the species level. The generic transfer from Micromeria Bentham to Clinopodium follows the molecular and morphological studies of Cantino and Wagstaff. Clinopodium ludens is currently known from Pinar del Ro Province of Cuba, the Yucatn and Quintana Roo states of Mexico, and the Atlantda Department of Honduras.
3393280| Twenty-two species are recognized in Weberbauera (Brassicaceae), and a key to distinguish them is given. Weberbauera dillonii, W. scabrifolia, and W. violacea are described and illustrated, and their distinguishing characters from nearest relatives are discussed. The new combinations W. peruviana and W. lechleri are proposed. Sisymbrium petraeum and S. fastigiatum are reduced to synonymy of W. lechleri. /// Se reconocen veintidos especies en Weberbauera (Brassicaceae), y se presenta una clave para distinguirlas. Se describen e ilustran Weberbauera dillonii, W. scabrifolia y W. violacea y se discuten los caracteres que las distinguen de otras especies cercanas. Se proponen nuevas combinaciones de W. peruviana y W. lechleri. Los nombres Sisymbrium petraeum y S. fastigiatum se reducen a sinnimos de W. lechleri. 
23018469|Three species of Calathea G. Mey. with distichous bracts, assigned to Calathea sect. Calathea (Marantaceae), are described as new from Panama: C. carlae H. Kenn., C. chiriquensis H. Kenn., and C. fredgandersii H. Kenn. All three are found in montane wet or cloud forest habitats at middle to higher elevations, 8001400 m. Calathea carlae also occurs in Costa Rica, while the other two are endemic to Panama. Calathea carlae differs from related species by the leaf length:width ratios of 1.7 2.13:1, cream-colored bracts, claviculate bracteoles, yellow corollas, and yellow or pink-purple staminodes. Calathea chiriquensis is distinguished by the light green bracts, leaf length:width ratios of 1.3 1.56:1, absence of bracteoles, flowers borne singly rather than in pairs, and yellow flowers. Calathea fredgandersii is distinguished by the subround leaf, leaf length:width ratios of 1.151.55:1, a purple band along the leaf margin, a deep purple leaf sheath, verruculose petioles, white bracts, membranous bracteoles, white corollas, and white or pale pink to lilac staminodes. Tres especies de Calathea G. Mey. con brcteas dsticas, pertenecientes a Calathea sect. Calathea (Marantaceae), son descritas como nuevas de Panam: C. carlae H. Kenn., C. chiriquensis H. Kenn. y C. fredgandersii H. Kenn. Las tres especies crecen en bosque hmedo montano o en bosque nublado a elevaciones medias a altas, 8001400 m. Solo C. carlae crece adems en Costa Rica, las dos otras especies son endmicas de Panam. Calathea carlae se distingue de especies cercanas por las hojas con radio largo:ancho de 1.72.13:1, brcteas de color crema, bractolas claviformes, corola amarilla y estaminodios amarillos o purpreo-rosados. Calathea chiriquensis se distingue por las brcteas verde claras, las hojas con radio largo:ancho de 1.3 1.56:1, bractolas ausentes, las flores solitarias, no en pares, y amarillas. Calathea fredgandersii se distingue por la hoja algo redondeada, las hojas con radio largo:ancho de 1.151.55:1, una banda purprea alrededor del margen de la hoja, vaina purprea oscura, pecolos verruculosos, brcteas blancas, bractolas membranceas, corolas blancas y los estaminodios blancos o rosado plidos a lila.
10.2307/3391767|Three new series of Pedicularis, ser. Maximoviczianae, ser. Albertianae, and ser. Semenowianae, are described, and three species, P. maximoviczii, P. chorgossica, and P. albertii, are reported from China.
10.2307/3392235|Five new orchid species from Costa Rica are described and illustrated from living or liquid-preserved material: Encyclia ortizii, Malaxis monsviridis, M. talamancana, Sobralia dissimilis, and S. doremiliae. The orthography of Sobralia "corazoi" is discussed, and S. carazoi is thought to be correct.
27765212|A new species of Sorocea A. Saint-Hilaire, S. caraulana M. D. M. Vianna, Carrijo & Romaniue (Moraceae s. str.), was discovered in the hills of southern Rio de Janeiro in the vicinity of Paraty. The new species resembles S. hilarii Gaudichaud by the similar shape of the leaves, but is clearly distinguished by its longer pistillate pedicel. This new species is endemic to the Atlantic Forest and is threatened due to its restricted geographic area of occurrence. Uma nova espcie de Sorocea A. Saint-Hilaire, S. carautana M. D. M. Vianna, Carrijo & Romaniuc (Moraceae s. str.), foi descoberta nos macios do sul do estado do Rio de Janeiro, no municpio de Paraty. A nova espcie assemelha-se a S. hilarii Gaudichaud pela forma das folhas, porm  claramente distinta pelo comprimento das inflorescncias pediceladas. A nova espcie  endmica da Floresta Atlntica, e encontra-se ameaada devido a sua distribuio geogrfica restrita.
10.2307/3393234|A new species, Senecio albaniae (Asteraceae: Senecioneae), is described from central Peru. The species is characterized by its shrubby habit, decurrent leaf bases forming winged stems, and solitary capitula on elongated peduncles. The species is described and illustrated, and its possible relationships are discussed. /// Una especie nueva, Senecio albaniae (Asteraceae: Senecioneae), se describe del Peru central. La especie es caracterizada por su habito arbustivo, hojas decurrentes y tallos alados, capitulo solitario con pednculos 5-15 cm de longitud. Se describe e ilustra la especie, y discuto las relaciones potenciales de esta especie.
3393335|The names Cumulopuntia crassicylindrica (from Peru), Espostoa guentheri (from Bolivia), and Yungasocereus inquisivensis (from Bolivia) are validated here. All had been previously published, but were invalid under Article 33.3 of the International Code of Botanical Nomenclature.
10.2307/3392950|A new species of Abronia is described from northwestern New Mexico, U.S.A., as Abronia bolackii N. D. Atwood, S. L. Welsh & K. D. Heil. It is compared to A. nana S. Watson based on similarities in stature and anthocarp structure and to A. fragrans Nuttall in the caulescent stems. A key to closely related taxa is included.
3393535|A new aquatic moss from Hext Spring, Texas, is described as Leptodictyum wallacei. The new species is distinct in the genus by its small plant size, stiff stem aspect, long leaf cells, firm-walled basal cells, and undifferentiated alar cells.
10.2307/3393375|Three new species of Cordia (Boraginaceae) are described from the Guianas. Cordia cremersii and C. marioniae belong in section Varronia, and C. fanchoniae in section Myxa. Cordia marioniae is known from the Rupununi savanna in the south of Guyana; the two other species have been collected in French Guiana.
10.2307/3391933|Asclepias lynchiana Fishbein is proposed as a new name for the species commonly known as A. grandiflora E. Fournier, a later homonym of A. grandiflora L. f. The other available name for this species, A. insignis (Brandegee) Woodson, is a later homonym of A. insignis (Schlechter) Schlechter. Asclepias lynchiana has among the largest flowers of any North American species of Asclepias and is widely distributed from central to southern Mexico.
3393500|A new species in Araceae, Pinellia koreana, is described from South Korea. Pinellia koreana differs from P. yaoluopingensis, P. pedatisecta, and P. ternata by having 3-foliolate leaves with bilobed lateral leaflets when mature and only petioles bearing bulbils. A polyploid chromosome number is reported for the new species (2n = 104), representing an octoploid series from a base number x = 13.
10.2307/3391591|Three previously undescribed species from western Amazonia, described and illustrated here, are: Psychotria huampamiensis C. M. Taylor, previously confused with P. acuminata Bentham; and P. cenepensis C. M. Taylor and P. ownbeyi Standley ex C. M. Taylor, both previously confused with P. zevallosii C. M. Taylor.
10.2307/3391854|A survey of all available material demonstrates conclusively that Phaseolus spectabilis is clearly a Vigna, and thus the new combination Vigna spectabilis (Standley) A. Delgado is proposed. This species is placed next to V. linearis in the New World subgenus Sigmoidotropis, section Caracallae. In addition, Phaseolus stenolobus is reduced to the synonymy of Vigna linearis var. latifolia (Bentham) Marchal.
40300900|Wimmeria lundelliana Carnevali, R. Duno, J. L. Tapia & I. Ramrez (Celastraceae) from the Yucatn Peninsula Biotic Province (YPBP) is proposed as a new species. The novelty is described, illustrated, and its affinities discussed. It appears related to W. obtusifolia Standley, also from the Yucatan Peninsula, which is glabrous or glabrescent overall, with proportionally broader and blunter leaves. In comparison, an amplified description and iconography of W. obtusifolia are offered. An epitype is designated for W. obtusifolia to document the fruit morphology. A taxonomic overview of Wimmeria Schlechtendal & Chamisso in the YPBP is presented. The objectives of this paper are (1) to present a synopsis of the genus Wimmeria for the YPBP, (2) to provide a key to species identification, and (3) to describe a new species. An additional objective of this contribution is to provide an amplified description and iconography of W. obtusifolia, particularly of the fruits, which were previously undescribed. /// Se describe, ilustra y compara una nueva especie, Wimmeria lundelliana Carnevali, R. Duno, J. L. Tapia & I. Ramrez (Celastraceae) de la porcin mexicana de la Provincia Bitica Pennsula de Yucatn (YPBP). Wimmeria lundelliana parece estar relacionada con W. obtusifolia Standley, pero es glabra o glabrescente y las hojas son ms anchas y obtusas. Se incluye una descripcin ampliada e iconograffa de W. obtusifolia. Se designa un epitipo para W. obtusifolia para describir la morfologa del fruto. Se presenta una sinopsis de Wimmeria Schlechtendal & Chamisso en la YPBP. Los objetivos de este articulos son (1) presentar una sinopsis del genero Wimmeria para la YPBP, (2) proporcionar una clave para la identificacin de estas especies y (3) describir una nueva especie. Adicionalmente incluimos una descripcin ampliada e iconografa de W. obtusifolia, con informacion de los frutos, los cuales hasta la fecha eran desconocidos.
3393536| The 14 species of Plinia known from Mesoamerica are reviewed. Eight new species are described and illustrated: one from Nicaragua, P. nicaraguensis; two from Costa Rica, P. guanacastensis and P. moralesii; and five from Panama, P. cerrocampanensis, P. coclensis, P. darienensis, P. gentryi, and P. panamensis. One species, P. salamancana, is transferred from Eugenia. A key to the Mesoamerican species is provided. /// Se examinan las 14 especies de Plinia conocidas de Mesoamrica. Se describen y ilustran ocho nuevas especies, una de Nicaragua, P. nicaraguensis, dos de Costa Rica, P. guanacastensis y P. moralesii y cinco de Panam, P. cerrocampanensis, P. coclensis, P. darienensis, P. gentryi y P. panamensis. Se transfiere una especie, P. salamancana, de Eugenia. Se provee una clave para las especies de Mesoamrica. 
10.2307/3391641|An unusual new species with sessile inflorescences, Psychotria turrubarensis W. Burger & Q. Jimnez, is described and illustrated. It is only known from 1,600 m elevation in the Zona Protectora Cerro Turrubares of central Costa Rica.
40300892|TWO new species of Bulbophyllum Thouars (Orchidaceae) from Brazil belonging to section Xiphizusa (Reichenbach f.) Cogniaux are described and illustrated. Both species are epiphytic, but grow in different vegetational types. Bulbophyllum gehrtii E. C. Smidt & Borba is native to cerrado vegetation in Sao Paulo and Minas Gerais states and is related to B. plumosum (Barbosa Rodrigues) Cogniaux, while B. teimosense E. C. Smidt & Borba grows in the Atlantic rainforest in southeastern Bahia State and is related to B. chloropterum Reichenbach f. According to IUCN Red List criteria, B. gehrtii is categorized as Endangered and B. teimosense as Critically Endangered.
27765192|Some names in Chinese Saussurea DC. (Asteraceae, Cardueae) are reviewed. Saussurea tunglingensis F. H. Chen is accepted as the taxonomically correct name, having priority over S. sclerolepis Nakai & Kitagawa. Saussurea haoi Y. Ling ex Y. L. Chen & S. Yun Liang shares the same type with S. bella Y. Ling, so S. haoi is an illegitimate name. Saussurea hopeiensis F. H. Chen described from Hopei [Hebei] is subsumed as a synonym of the more widely distributed S. mongolica (Franchet) Franchet. Saussurea chowana F. H. Chen known only from its type locality in Hopei [Hebei] is treated as a synonym of the broadly distributed S. parviflora (Poiret) DC. Saussurea lanatocephala F. H. Chen known only from Jilin is synonymized to S. triangulata Trautvetter & C. A. Meyer. The names S. nematolepis Y. Ling and S. cochleariifolia Y. L. Chen & S. Yun Liang are lectotypified.
40300923|AS part of the revision of the genus Stylosanthes Swartz (Leguminosae) from South America, material from Corrientes, Argentina, described by Burkart as S. gracilis Kunth var. rostrata Burkart, is recognized at species rank as 5. rostrata (Burkart) Vanni. /// Durante la revisin del genero Stylosanthes Swartz (Leguminosae) para Sudamrica, el material de Corrientes, Argentina, descripto por Burkart como S. gracilis Kunth var. rostrata Burkart, es considerado una especie diferente S. rostrata (Burkart) Vanni.
10.2307/3391911|Sciaphyllum amoenum has been known solely from cultivated plants of unknown origin. This species exhibits all of the diagnostic characteristics of Streblacanthus but is not conspecific with any previously described species of that genus. The cultivated specimens, including the type, of S. amoenum correspond to an undescribed series of collections from Peru. Thus the species is transferred to Streblacanthus, and its place of origin can be established. Streblacanthus amoenus is compared with the other species of this genus of American plants. Streblacanthus boliviensis is considered to be a synonym of S. dubiosus.
10.2307/3391535|Results from a recent taxonomic treatment of species of Scirpus sensu lato occurring in Virginia indicate that they are a heterogeneous group. Three segregate genera are recognized as occurring in Virginia: Scirpus sensu stricto, Trichophorum, and Schoenoplectus. The transfer of four species to Schoenoplectus is made. These combinations are made prior to a treatment of Virginia Scirpus sensu lato forthcoming in the journal Bartonia.
40300946|Three new species of Salacia L. from Mesoamerica (Celastraceae, Salacioideae) are described from Panama. Salacia macrocremastra Lom bardi is characterized by its very long pedicels to 50 mm, large flowers to 19 mm diam., and slightly bullate, elliptic leaves with a rounded base. Salacia mennegana J. Hedin ex Lombardi is distinguished by its buds with the calyx initially truncate and lobes that grow as the flower expands during anthesis, open inflorescences, annular disk, and ellipsoid fruits. Salacia panamensis Lombardi can be recognized by its closed calyx with lobes that are irregular in bud and that tear apart as the flower opens, and its annular-pulvinate, slightly pentagonous disk with outer margin flattened. /// So descritas para a regio Mesoamericana trs novas espcies de Salacia L. do Panam (Celastraceae, Salacioideae). Salacia macrocremastra Lombardi  caracterizada pelos seus pedicelos muito longos de at 50 mm, flores grandes de at 19 mm dim., e folhas elpticas, levemente buladas e de base arredondada. Salacia mennegana J. Hedin ex Lombardi distinguida pelos botes com clice inicialmente truncado e lobos que crescem conforme a flor se expande na antse, inflorescncias laxas, disco anular e frutos elipsides. Salacia panamensis Lombardi que pode ser reconhecida pelo clice fechado no boto, com lobos irregulares que se separam conforme a flor abre, e pelo disco anular-pulviniforme, levemente pentgono e de margem externa achatada.
41811677|A new pteridophyte species, Woodsia guizhouensis P. S. Wang, Q. Luo & Li Bing Zhang (Woodsiaceae), is described and illustrated from higher elevational areas in Guizhou, China. It is morphologically most similar to W. andersonii (Bedd.) Christ and W. rosthorniana Diels. Woodsia guizhouensis is only 3-8 cm tall, its rhizome scales are light brown with sparsely fimbriate margins, its pinnae are short-petiolulate, and its pinna bases are cordate or sometimes rounded. The perispore sculpture of W. guizhouensis pollen is cristate, with numerous acanthoid projections and a few irregular perforations. Woodsia guizhouensis is only known from four localities in western Guizhou and is considered to be Endangered (EN), based on IUCN Red List criteria.
20406274|Two new species of Baccharis L. assigned to subgenus Molina Heering and section Caulopterae DC. (Asteraceae, Astereae) are described and illustrated from southern Brazil. Baccharis jocheniana G. Heiden & Macias is distinguished by its erect-prostrate growth habit, broadly 3-winged stems, reduced scale leaves, panicles composed of spikes of solitary to 6-clustered capitula, female capitula with 50 to 60 florets with an irregularly denticulate corolla apex, and ca. 8-ribbed cypselae. Baccharis ramboi G. Heiden & Macias is distinguished by its glabrescent hispid indument, narrowly 3-winged stems, shortly petiolate leaves with oblong leaf blades, capitula clustered in a spike with a narrowly winged axis and conspicuous leafy bracts, female capitula with ca. 30 to 35 florets with a short ligulate apex, and cypselae with two ribs more conspicuous than the others. Baccharis jocheniana is compared with B. myriocephala DC. and B. crispa Sprengel; B. ramboi is compared with B. pseudovillosa Malagarriga & J. E. Vidal. /// Duas novas espcies de Baccharis L. pertencentes ao subg. Molina Heering e sect. Caulopterae DC. (Asteraceae, Astereae) do sul do Brasil so descritas e ilustradas. Baccharis jocheniana G. Heiden & Macias  caracterizada por apresentar hbito de crescimento ereto-prostrado, caules largamente 3alados, folhas reduzidas escamiformes, inflorescncia constituda por panculas de espigas de captulos isolados ou em grupos de seis, captulos femininos com 50 a 60 flores com pice da corola denticulado e cipselas ca. 8-costadas. Baccharis ramboi G. Heiden & Macias  caracterizada por apresentar indumento hspido, glabrescente, caule estreitamente 3-alado, folhas com pecolos curtos e limbo foliar oblongo, captulos agrupados em uma espiga com eixo estreitamente alado portando brcteas folhosas conspcuas, captulos femininos com 30 a 35 flores com pice da corola curtamente ligulado e cipselas com duas costelas mais conspcuas. Baccharis jocheniana  comparada com B. myriocephala DC. e B. crispa Sprengel Baccharis ramboi  comparada com B. pseudovillosa Malagarriga & J. E. Vidal.
43289115|In preparing the family Rhamnaceae for an upcoming volume of Flora Mesoamericana, it became apparent, based on recent molecular work (Bolmgren & Oxelman, 2004; Bolmgren, pers. comm., 2013), as well as historical (Grubov, 1949; Kartesz & Gandhi, 1994), and personal morphological studies, that recognization of the genus Frangula Mill, is well supported. The emphasis of the current study has been on Mesoamerican species and four species from Mesoamerica, F. circumscissa A. Pool from Costa Rica, F. darienensis A. Pool from Panama, F. grandiflora A. Pool described from Honduras and also found in Chiapas, Mexico, F. pendula A. Pool described from Costa Rica and also found in Panama, and one species from Oaxaca, Mexico, F. inconspicua A. Pool, are published here as new. Four Mesoamerican species and two varieties published in Rhamnus L. are transferred to Frangula as: F. breedlovei (L. A. Johnst. & M. C. Johnst.) A. Pool [ R. breedlovei L. A. Johnst. & M. C. Johnst.], F. mcvaughii (L. A. Johnst. & M. C. Johnst.) A. Pool [ R. mcvaughii L. A. Johnst. & M. C. Johnst.], F. oreodendron (L. O. Williams) A. Pool [ R. oreodendron L. O. Williams], F. wendtii (Ishiki) A. Pool [ R. wendtii Ishiki], F. capreifolia var. grandifolia (M. C. Johnst. & L. A. Johnst.) A. Pool [ R. capreifolia var. grandifolia M. C. Johnst. & L. A. Johnst.], and F. discolor var. mesoamericana (L. A. Johnst. & M. C. Johnst.) A. Pool [ R. sphaerosperma var. mesoamericana L. A. Johnst. & M. C. Johnst.]. The following new combinations are made for five Mexican species north of the Flora Mesoamericana area: F. chimalapensis (R. Fernndez) A. Pool [ R. chimalapensis R. Fernndez], F. hintonii (M. C. Johnst. & L. A. Johnst.) A. Pool [ R. hintonii M. C. Johnst. & L. A. Johnst.], F. longistyla (C. B. Wolf) A. Pool [ R. longistyla C. B. Wolf], F. scopulorum (M. E. Jones) A. Pool [ R. serrata var. scopulorum M. E. Jones], and F. surotatensis (Gentry) A. Pool [ R. surotatensis Gentry]. Four South American species are transferred: F. acuminata (Maguire & Steyerm.) A. Pool [ R. acuminata Maguire & Steyerm.], F. chimantensis (Steyerm. & Maguire) A. Pool [ R. chimantensis Steyerm. & Maguire], F. marahuacensis longipes M. C. Johnst. & L. A. Johnst. (from Hispaniola and Puerto Rico) is transferred to Frangula and raised to the rank of species, necessitating the publication of the new name F. longipedicellata A. Pool. Lectotypes are designated for F. polymorpha Reissek, R. citrifolia Rusby, and R. riojae Perkins.
3393502|Eurya luchunensis J. H. Wang & H. Wang, a new species of Theaceae from Luchun County in southern Yunnan, China, is described and illustrated. It was collected in a tropical broad-leaved secondary forest or montane rain forest on Mt. Huanglian-shan. This species is very similar to Eurya pseudocerasifera Kobuski, from which it differs by having lanceolate to oblong-lanceolate leaves, 20- to 24-locellate anthers, and the first-year branches, as well as the pedicels, bracteoles, and sepals, being glabrous or subglabrous.
40856303|Chroniochilus sinicus L. J. Chen & Z. J. Liu, a new species, is described for the Orchidaceae from Yunnan, China, and accordingly the genus Chroniochilus J. J. Sm. is first reported from China. The new species differs from the allied species C. virescens (Ridl.) Holttum by having much larger leaves (7 10 cm), much longer inflorescences (to 18 cm), tiny bracts, and a cordate-conical lip constricted in its upper portion, with side-lobes 3.5-4.5 mm long.
10.2307/3393068|In order to comply with the current International Code of Botanical Nomenclature a new combination, Billia rosea (Planchon & Linden) C. Ulloa & P. Jrgensen, is proposed to replace the superfluous name Billia columbiana Planchon & Linden ex Triana & Planchon. /// Para conformar con el Cdigo Internacional de Nomenclatura Botnica vigente se propone la nueva combinacin Billia rosea (Planchon & Linden) C. Ulloa & P. Jrgensen que reemplaza a Billia columbiana Planchon & Linden ex Triana & Planchon, un nombre superfluo.
20406335|Draba anatolica A. Duran & Din, a new species of Brassicaceae collected from Kastamonu province in North Anatolia, Turkey, is described and illustrated. The species grows on rocky crevices and stony slopes in Ilgaz Mountain National Park. It is related to D. siliquosa M. Bieberstein, from which it mainly differs in its densely stellate-pubescent fruit, the 10- to 20-flowered inflorescence, the stellate-pubescent stems with five to eight leaves, the petals 4.5-5 mm long and sparsely stellate-pubescent externally, and the pubescent, 8-10 mm, fruiting pedicel. The ecology, biogeography, and conservation status of the species are discussed. Fruit and seed coat surface micromorphology of D. anatolica are examined by SEM, and the chromosome number and morphology are determined, with 2n = 16.
10.2307/3391875|Two sections in the genus Pleione D. Don are recognized here. The acceptance of Pleione praecox as the lectotype of the generic name Pleione (J. E. Smith) D. Don makes Pleione sect. Dictyopleione synonymous with Pleione sect. Pleione. A new name, Pleione sect. Humiles G. Zhu & S. C. Chen, is proposed for the other section represented by P. humilis (J. E. Smith) D. Don, which is described here. A key to sections and a list of currently recognized species of the genus are provided.
10.2307/3392096|Hoya telosmoides R. Omlor sp. nov. from northern Borneo is described and illustrated. Its systematic position is discussed, and an introduction is given to the major subgroups of the Marsdenieae and their delimitation.
10.2307/3393569|Dischidia cleistantha, a new species endemic to the Philippines, is described and illustrated. It is distinguished from three other species of Dischidia sect. Conchophyllum native to the Philippines by the character combination of corolla adaxially glabrous, 7-7.5 mm long, with corolline corona lobes opposite the corolla lobes, fleshy triangular dorsal staminal appendages, and unstalked staminal corona lobes.
20406072|The new combination Paspalum robustum (Hitchcock & Chase) S. Denham replaces the illegitimate name Paspalum calliferum S. Denham, species from the Caribbean and northern South America. /// La nueva combinacin Paspalum robustum (Hitchcock & Chase) S. Denham reemplaza al nombre ilegtimo Paspalum calliferum S. Denham, especie del Caribe y norte de Sud Amrica.
27765197|Una nueva especie, Stylosanthes quintanarooensis Gama & Dvila (Leguminosae, tribu Dalbergieae, dentro del clado Pterocarpus), del estado de Quintana Roo (sureste de Mxico), se describe e ilustra. Se presentan datos sobre su hbitat y distribucin geogrfica. Con base en caracteres morfolgicos y moleculares, esta especie se compara con 5. calcicola Small, S. macrocarpa S. F. Blake y S. mexicana Taubert, las cuales se consideran como las especies ms relacionadas. A new species from the state of Quintana Roo (southeastern Mexico), Slylosanthes quintanarooensis Gama & Dvila (Leguminosae, tribe Dalbergieae, within a Pterocarpus clade), is described and illustrated. Data are presented on the habitat and geographical distribution of the new species. Based on morphological and molecular data, the new species is compared to its most closely related taxa, S. calcicola Small, S. macrocarpa S. F. Blake, and S. mexicana Taubert.
10.2307/3392977|Previously monotypic Lepidostemon is expanded to include five species, of which L. everestianus and L. gouldii are herein described as new. The new combinations L. rosularis and L. glaricola are proposed. The genus is reported for the first time from China. Chrysobraya is reduced to synonymy of Lepidostemon.
20406314|A new species of Leucheria Lagasca (Asteraceae, Mutisieae), L. graui Katinas, M. C. Tellera & Crisci, with glutinous habit and yellow corollas is described and illustrated. This would be the only species within Leucheria with yellow corollas. The pollen of the new species is also described and illustrated; it belongs to the Oxyphyllum Philippi pollen type and has similar characteristics to other species of Leucheria. The new species appears to be morphologically close to L. apiifolia Philippi, which belongs to the relatively primitive L. glacialis (Poeppig ex Lessing) Reiche evolutionary line of dry environments.
23259349|Se describe como especie nueva a Combretum igneiflorum Rendn & R. Delgad. (Combretaceae), de la costa del Occidente de Mxico, de los estados de Jalisco y Colima. Es parecida morfolgicamente a C. assimile Eichler de Centro y Suramrica pero se distingue por tener hojas, flores y frutos de menor tamao, por espigas que no sobrepasan la longitud de las hojas, pecolo lepidoto, por lo general piloso y frutos con alas estrechas. Combretum igneiflorum Rendn & R. Delgad. (Combretaceae) is described as a new species from the coast of western Mexico, from the states of Jalisco and Colima. It is morphologically similar to C. assimile Eichler from Central and South America, but is distinguished by the smaller size of the leaves, flowers, and fruits, the spikes that do not exceed the length of the leaves, the lepidote petiole, the general pilosity, and the fruits with narrow wings.
10.2307/3393117|Based on unique combinations of characters, five new species, Sphagnum [sect. Sphagnum] matogrossense, Sphagnum [sect. Sphagnum] hertelianum, Sphagnum [sect. Sphagnum] trollii, Sphagnum [sect. Subsecunda] uruguayense, and Sphagnum [sect. Acutifolia] amazonense, are added to the rich Sphagnum flora of South America.
10.2307/3392035|Ficus semicordata Buchanan-Hamilton ex J. E. Smith is known as a Khanyu tree in Nepal, and is locally used as a forage tree. Nepalese farmers distinguish two kinds of Khanyu based on the fodder quality: khasro and rai. Farmers tend to prefer rai khanyu because they believe that livestock fed with rai khanyu give higher milk yields, whereas khasro khanyu has an adverse effect on milk production and tends to reduce it. It was only in the late 1980s that researchers distinguished two types of Khanyu. It appears that both kinds of Khanyu were included in the studies made by earlier taxonomists and others using the general scientific name of F. semicordata, as these workers do not mention the different local names of this species. Detailed taxonomic and ecological studies revealed that in Nepal two varieties of khanyu occur in Nepal: the typical variety and var. montana, described herein.
10.2307/3392126|A new species of Macoubea from Costa Rica and Panama is described and illustrated. Its relationships with the two South American species of the genus are discussed.
10.2307/3393077|Se describen e ilustran cuatro nuevas bombacceas de Colombia, pertenecientes a los gneros Matisia (M. gentryi y M. racemifera) y Quararibea (Q. cryptantha y Q. rangelii). Las dos especies de Quararibea descritas, corresponden a grupos muy distintivos no previamente conocidos en territorio colombiano. Una de las especies nuevas de Matisia presenta flores dispuestas en ramas cortas filas, formando racimos bracteados; este ltimo carcter, nico en todo el gnero, se describe aqu por primera vez. /// Four new Bombacaceae from Colombia, two species of Matisia (M. gentryi and M. racemifera) and two of Quararibea (Q. cryptantha and Q. rangelii), are described and illustrated. The two new species of Quararibea belong to two distinctive groups, which have not been previously reported in Colombia. One of the new species of Matisia, M. racemifera, has flowers arranged in short leafless branches that form bracteate racemes; the latter character, unique in the genus, is here described for the first time.
10.2307/3393579|Bauhinia ser. Aculeatae Vaz & A. M. G. Azevedo, a new series in section Pauletia, is established as separate from Bauhinia ser. Cansenia (Rafinesque) Wunderlin, K. Larsen & S. S. Larsen. A description of the new series is presented together with a description of series Cansenia newly circumscribed.
20406318|A new name, Cardamine pseudowasabi H. Shin & Y. D. Kim (Brassicaceae), is proposed for Wasabia koreana Nakai because the transfer of the epithet to Cardamine L. would create a later homonym.
40856292|A new species of Spiranthera A. St.-Hil. (Rutaceae, Galipeinae) is illustrated and described from Esprito Santo, Brazil. Spiranthera atlantica Pirani represents the first species record for the genus in the Atlantic Forest of eastern Brazil. The new taxon resembles the Amazonian S. guianensis Sandwith but differs by its smaller, few-flowered inflorescences and by the fruit and leaflet morphology. Uma nova espcie de Spiranthera A. St.-Hil. (Rutaceae, Galipeinae)  descrita e ilustrada: Spiranthera atlantica Pirani, primeiro registro do genero na Mata Atlntica brasileira. Ela se assemelha a S. guianensis Sandwith, que  uma espcie amaznica, mas difere pelas inflorescencias pequenas e paucifloras, e por caracteres do fruto e dos fololos.
41811666|A recent review of the Malagasy Bignoniaceae for the Catalogue of the Vascular Plants of Madagascar has led to the discovery of two new species in the genus Stereospermum Cham.: S. gentryi Callm., Phillipson & G. E. Schatz and S. randrianaivoi Callm., Phillipson & G. E. Schatz. Stereospermum gentryi is unique in having leaflets spotted with red glands that give a reddish color when dry, and a long, lax, paniculate inflorescence bearing flowers with large corollas that are red-purple inside the mouth and throat. Stereospermum randrianaivoi can be distinguished by its usually 3-foliolate leaves with thick, coriaceous leaflets that are discolorous, with the adaxial surface drying pinkish green and the upper surface a dull gray-green, and shiny in vivo. Both of the new species are provided with illustrations, a discussion of their morphological affinities, and a conservation threat analysis based on the IUCN Red List Criteria. Une rvision rcente de la famille des Bignoniaceae pour le Catalogue des plantes de Madagascar nous permets de dcouvrir deux nouvelles espces dans le genre Stereospermum Cham.: S. gentryi Callm., Phillipson & G. E. Schatz and S. randrianaivoi Callm., Phillipson & G. E. Schatz. Stereospermum gentryi est unique possdant des folioles  limbe tachet de glandes rouges donnant un aspect rougetre sur le sec et une longue et diffuse inflorescence portant des fleurs a large corolles dont l'intrieur de la gorge et de la bouche est rouge pourpre. Stereospermum randrianaivoi peut tre distingu par ses feuilles gnralement  3-folioles, son limbe coriace, pais, discolore qui sche de faon rostre (brillant in vivo). Les deux nouvelles espces sont dcrites avec des illustrations, une discussion sur leurs affinits morphologiques ainsi que l'valuation prliminaire du statut de conservation suivant les critres de l'UICN.
20406188|Se describe e ilustra Werauhia noctiflorens T. Krmer, Espejo, Lpez-Ferrari & Acebey (Bromeliaceae), una nueva especie de los estados de Chiapas y Veracruz en Mxico y del distrito de Toledo en Belice. El nuevo taxn presenta la inflorescencia simple, secunda, con las flores blancas a blanco-verdosas, laxamente dispuestas, los spalos y ptalos grandes de hasta 3.3 y 5.5 cm de largo respectivamente, y las cpsulas fusiformes y rostradas. Se compara W. noctiflorens con los taxones similares W. macrochlamys (Mez & Werckl) J. F. Morales, W. pittieri (Mez) J. R. Grant y W. vanhyningii (L. B. Smith) J. R. Grant. /// Werauhia noctiflorens T. Krmer, Espejo, Lpez-Ferrari & Acebey (Bromeliaceae), a new species from the states of Chiapas and Veracruz in Mexico and the Toledo District in Belize, is described and illustrated. The new taxon has a simple, secund inflorescence, with white to greenish white flowers, large sepals and petals to 3.3 and 5.5 cm, respectively, and fusiform and rostrate capsules. Werauhia noctiflorens is compared to the similar taxa W. macrochlamys (Mez & Werckl) J. F. Morales, W. pittieri (Mez) J. R. Grant, and W. vanhyningii (L. B. Smith) J. R. Grant.
23259431|Daniel B. Ward's recent assessment of species in Flora Caroliniana by Thomas Walter included the identification and neotypification of Melanthium hybridum Walter, a name that would now have apparent priority over the more commonly used synonyms for the crisped bunch-flower, M. latifolium Desr. in Lam. and Veratrum latifolium (Desr. in Lam.) Zomlefer (Melanthiaceae). The supported conservation of the name Veratrum L. over Melanthium L. at the Melbourne International Botanical Congress necessitates the transfer of M. hybridum to Veratrum. However, another name, V. hybridum J. H. Zimmerman, lacked reference to the basionym and was not validly published. Herein, a discussion of these nomenclatural issues includes the validation of the name V. hybridum (Walter) Zimmerman ex Zomlefer.
20406105|Three new species of Elvasia DC. (E. gigantifolia Fraga & Saavedra, E. kollmannii Fraga & Saavedra, and E. capixaba Fraga & Saavedra) from the Brazilian Atlantic forests of Esprito Santo are described and illustrated. The diagnostic characters of each species and their similarities with other species are discussed. In addition, this paper provides an emended key for species of subgenus Hostmannia (Planchon) Planchon. /// So descritas e ilustradas trs novas espcies de Elvasia DC. (E. gigantifolia Fraga & Saavedra, E. kollmannii Fraga & Saavedra e E. capixaba Fraga & Saavedra) originrias da floresta atlntica brasileira no Esprito Santo. Os caracteres diagnsticos e as semelhanas com outras espcies so discutidos para cada espcie. Em adio, este trabalho apresenta uma chave de identificao para as espcies do subgnero Hostmannia (Planchon) Planchon.
20406245|Lectotypification is provided here for Sambucus chinensis Lindley (Caprifoliaceae), and the rare, new variety, S. chinensis var. pinnatilobatus G. W. Hu, from Hunan province in China, is described and illustrated from two populations. It differs from S. chinensis var. chinensis in leaflet shape, fruit and pyrene size, and the adaxial epidermis of the leaf blades. The new variety's leaflets on imparipinnate leaves are pinnatipartite or pinnatisect and some leaflet lobes are irregularly pinnatilobate; fruit diameters range from 3.3-3.8 mm (average 3.5 mm); pyrene lengths range from 1.5-1.9 mm (average 1.7 mm); and the epidermal cells of the adaxial leaf surface are irregularly shaped, with sinuous or sinuate anticlinal walls. In comparison, the autonymic variety's leaflets on imparipinnate leaves are not lobed and have serrate margins; fruit diameters range from 4.0-4.8 mm (average 4.3 mm); pyrene lengths range from 2.1-2.5 mm (average 2.2 mm); and the epidermal cells of the adaxial leaf surface are polygonal, with straight or arched anticlinal walls. A chromosome number of 2n = 36 is reported for the new variety.
10.2307/3393232|The history of a southern Mexican endemic Ipomoea is summarized, beginning with its publication in 1908 as Exogonium luteum House. Because of a previously existing Ipomoea lutea Hemsley, the new name Ipomoea electrina is proposed to refer to the unique amber-colored flowers of these plants. Since two distantly related congeners, Ipomoea lutea and I. urbinei, have nomenclatural and misidentification histories interlaced with I. electrina, they are also discussed and compared with this taxon. /// Se presenta un resumen de la historia de una Ipomoea endmica del sur de Mxico, empezando con su publicacin en 1908 como Exogonium luteum House. Debido a la previa existencia de una Ipomoea lutea Hemsley, se propone el nuevo nombre Ipomoea electrina en referencia al caracterstico color mbar que poseen las flores de estas plantas. Dos congneres lejanamente relacionados, Ipomoea lutea e Ipomoea urbinei, con historias de nomenclatura y errneas identificaciones entrelazadas con Ipomoea electrina, tambin se discuten y comparan con este taxn.
10.2307/3393091|A new species of Asteraceae, Arnaldoa argentea C. Ulloa, P. Jrgensen & M. O. Dillon, from southern Ecuador is described and illustrated. It is characterized by its cream-white to light orange corollas and red-brown phyllaries covered by a dense silvery pubescence, especially on the adaxial surface. The genus was previously known only from northern Peru. A key to the species of Arnaldoa is presented. /// Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie de Asteraceae, Arnaldoa argentea C. Ulloa, P. Jrgensen & M. O. Dillon, del sur de Ecuador. Esta especie se caracteriza por las corolas de color blanco-crema a anaranjado plido y las filarias cafrojizas cubiertas por un denso tomento argnteo especialmente en la superficie adaxial. El gnero anteriormente se conoca solo del norte de Per. Se presenta una clave para todas las especies de Arnaldoa.
10.2307/3393136|During a revision of the genus Drosera for Flora Neotropica, a new species was found. Drosera peruensis is described as new from Peru for the neotropics and is placed in D. subg. Drosera in section Drosera. It is characterized by the presence of elongated stems, leaves that become patent when old, obovate-oblong blades with distinct petioles, filamentous trichomes on the abaxial leaf surface, and inflorescence with filamentous trichomes.
10.2307/3393578| Two new Colombian species were identified in the Neotropical genus Symbolanthus (Gentianaceae: Helieae) during an ongoing revisionary study. Symbolanthus pterocalyx Struwe is characterized by its green to yellow corollas, strongly winged stems, and long-acuminate calyx lobes with a long, thin dorsal keel on each lobe. The other new species, Symbolanthus tetrapterus Struwe, also has strongly winged stems, but corollas variously colored in green, white, pink, to red-violet and calyx lobes rounded and non-keeled. Both species are endemic to small areas in the Andes of western Colombia. The western outlier Cerro del Torr of the Cordillera Occidental in the province of Choc (Colombia) is the only known locality of Symbolanthus tetrapterus. Symbolanthus pterocalyx occurs in high-elevation cloud forests, subpramo, and pramo in a small area around Medelln in the province of Antioquia (Colombia). /// Se describen dos especies nuevas del genero neotropical Symbolanthus (Gentianaceae: Helieae). Symbolanthus pterocalyx Struwe se caracteriza por las corollas verdes o amarillas, los tallos fuertamente alados, y por los lbulos del cliz largos, acuminados y con una quilla dorsal larga y delgada sobre cada lbulo. La otra especie nueva, Symbolanthus tetrapterus Struwe, tiene tambin tallos fuertemente alados y las corolas varan desde verdes o blancas hasta rosadas o rojo-violetas, pero los lbulos del cliz son redondos y no quillados. Las dos especies son endmicas de areas restringidas en los Andes occidentales de Colombia. Symbolanthus tetrapterus se ha registrado solamente en el Cerro del Torr, saliente de la Cordillera Occidental en el departamento del Choc (Colombia). Symbolanthus pterocalyx se encuentra en bosques nublados de elevaciones altas, subpramos, y pramos cerca de Medelln, en el departamento de Antioquia (Colombia). 
20406242|A new milkweed from the eastern and western cordilleras of Mexico is described and illustrated. Asclepias elegantula Fishbein is distinguished from other diminutive, linear-leaved species of the genus in montane Mexico by the claret-striped petals (unique in American Asclepias L.) and by the combination of very small flowers with corona segments (hoods) that are sharply deflexed from the staminal column, deeply pouched, and bear a grooved, internal appendage (horn) confluent with the dorsal margin of each hood. The species is known from only two sites with different substrates, one each in the Sierra Madre Oriental and Sierra Madre Occidental. The remarkable disjunction may be indicative of extreme rarity or the low likelihood of observing this relatively inconspicuous milkweed.
10.2307/3393174|Two new species of Leymus, L. pendulus and L. obvipodus, are described and illustrated. These two species are endemic to Qinghai province, China, occurring at the margins of woodlands, wastelands, mountain valleys, and the bases of walls, at 2280-2900 m elevation. Leymus pendulus is unusual in its lax, long, pendent spikes. It is closely related to L. flexus, but differs from that species by pendent spikes, longer rachis internodes, and shorter glumes and lemmas. Leymus obvipodus is unique in the genus in having all spikelets pedicellate. It resembles both L. divaricatus (Drobow) Tzvelev and L. aristiglumus L. B. Cai but differs from the former by lanceolate glumes with 1 to 3 nerves, longer spike-like panicles, taller culms, and lanceolate lemmas with 5 obscure nerves and pubescent margins, and from the latter by lax, longer spike-like panicles, pedicellate spikelets with 4 to 8 florets, narrower glumes, and longer, lustrous lemmas.
27765241|Two novelties in the genus Senecio L. sect. Senecio of Patagonia (Argentina) are described and illustrated: a new species, S. breviramulus Tortosa & Adr. Bartoli belonging to series Xerosenecio (Cabrera) Cabrera & S. E. Freire, and the new variety pinohachense Tortosa & Adr. Bartoli for S. volckmannii Phil. belonging to series Suffruticosi Cabrera subser. Candidi (Cabrera) Cabrera & S. E. Freire. The new species is allied to S. covasii Cabrera and S. pumilus Tortosa & Adr. Bartoli, from which it differs by the smaller, narrowly elliptic leaves and narrower heads with fewer flowers. The new variety of S. volckmannii differs from the typical variety by the presence of female ray florets and the pedunculate capitula. Se describen e ilustran dos novedades en el gnero Senecio L. sect. Senecio de Patagonia (Argentina): una nueva especie S. breviramulus Tortosa & Adr. Bartoli, que pertenece a la serie Xerosenecio (Cabrera) Cabrera & S. E. Freire, y una nueva variedad, S. volckmannii Phil. var. pinohachense Tortosa & Adr. Bartoli, de la serie Suffruticosi Cabrera subser. Candidi (Cabrera) Cabrera & S. E. Freire. La nueva especie es afn a S. covasii Cabrera y S. pumilus Tortosa & Adr. Bartoli, de las cuales se diferencia por sus hojas menores, angostamente elpticas, y sus captulos ms angostos, con menor nmero de flores. La nueva variedad de S. volckmannii se diferencia de la variedad lpica por la presencia de flores liguladas femeninas y captulos pedunculados.
10.2307/3392960|Two cycad species, Cycas nathorstii endemic to Sri Lanka and Cycas zeylanica native to Sri Lanka and islands of the Andaman Sea, are discussed. A new combination, Cycas zeylanica (J. Schuster) Lindstrom & K. D. Hill, is established, elevating this taxon from subspecies status on the basis of cataphyll and leaflet characters. Both Cycas species are lectotypified. Distribution of the two species is investigated, and a key to the species is provided.
40856285|A new species is recognized here as part of the taxonomic revision of the Polygalaceae in southern Brazil. Polygala densiracemosa Ldtke & Miotto belongs to Polygala L. subg. Polygala, which comprises around 88 species and 22 varieties in Brazil, being the best represented subgenus of Polygala in the Brazilian flora. Polygala densiracemosa can be confused with P. campestris Gardner and P. linoides Poir. by the resemblance of the flowers, fruits, and seeds and by the similar geographical distribution. However, P. densiracemosa is distinguished by a generally caespitose habit and dense racemes. The new species is described and illustrated, observations on habitat and distribution are provided, and differences among related taxa are discussed. Uma nova espcie  reconhecida aqui como parte da reviso taxonmica da famlia Polygalaceae na regio sul do Brasil. Polygala densiracemosa Ldtke & Miotto pertence ao Polygala L. subg. Polygala que compreende cerca de 88 espcies e 22 variedades, constituindo-se no subgnero de Polygala melhor representado na flora brasileira. Polygala densiracemosa pode ser confundida com P. campestris Gardner e P. linoides Poir. na semelhana das flores, frutos, sementes e na distribuio geogrfica. Entretanto, P. densiracemosa apresenta hbito geralmente cespitoso e racemos muito densos. So fornecidos descrio, ilustrao, observaes sobre os habitats e distribuio desta nova espcie, alm disso, so discutidas as diferenas entre os txons relacionados.
3393466| Se describe Croton longibracteatus, especie nueva de Brasil. Esta especie pertenece a Croton sec. Barhamia (Klotzsch) Baillon y se considera cercana a C. muscicapa Mller Argoviensis, con la cual se compara y se distingue por las estpulas bien desarrolladas, las bractolas ms grandes, los spalos pistilados ms grandes y acrescentes y los estambres exsertos. Se presenta una clave para distinguirlas y una ilustracin de la especie. /// Croton longibracteatus (Euphorbiaceae), a new species from Brazil, is described and illustrated. It belongs to Croton sect. Barhamia (Klotzsch) Baillon and appears similar to C. muscicapa Mller Argoviensis, but differs from the latter by presenting well-developed stipules, larger bracteoles, large and accrescent pistillate sepals, and exserted stamens. A dichotomous key for distinguishing both taxa and an illustration of the new species are included. 
10.2307/3392171|Caryodaphnopsis bilocellata van der Werff & Dao, collected in the Cuc Phuong National Park in Vietnam and differing from the other Asian species of the genus in having 2-celled anthers, is described.
10.2307/3391888|Data from morphology and sequencing of the chloroplast gene rbcL show that Cyphioideae (Campanulaceae) as traditionally circumscribed are not monophyletic. To remedy the situation, its genera are divided among three subfamilies, one of which, Nemacladoideae, is new.
23018470|A new species of Elatostema J. R. Forst. & G. Forst. (Urticaceae), E. oppositum Q. Lin & Y. M. Shui, belonging to section Weddelia (H. Schroet.) W. T. Wang ser. Stipulosa W. T. Wang, is described and illustrated from Yunnan Province, China. The new species was found on limestone rocks at altitudes of 17001940 m and differs from the other species in series Stipulosa by its paired staminate inflorescences that are opposite one another at the stem nodes (staminate inflorescences are solitary in the other species of Elatostema ser. Stipulosa) and by its pistillate inflorescences in pairs at the leaf base or opposite one another at the stem nodes (pistillate inflorescences are solitary in the other species of this series). The new species is related to E. nasutum Hook. f., but can be distinguished by its stems that are longitudinally striate, the paired staminate inflorescences opposite one another at the stem nodes, the pistillate inflorescences in pairs or opposite one another at the stem nodes, and the staminate flowers that are 5-merous.
10.2307/3392004|Carex (sect. Albae) mckittrickensis is described as a new species from Guadalupe Mountains National Park, Texas. It is similar to C. eburnea but has larger staminate and pistillate scales and larger perigynia with a longer beak. It is over 1000 km disjunct from the nearest known stations of C. eburnea in Arkansas and Nebraska.
10.2307/3391858|Moraea, central genus of the Old World and largely African subtribe Homeriinae of Iridaceae tribe Irideae and currently including some 130 species, is understood to be paraphyletic. The remaining genera of Homeriinae, Barnardiella (1 sp.), Galaxia (15 spp.), Gynandriris (9 spp.), Hexaglottis (6 spp.), Homeria (ca. 32 spp.), and Roggeveldia (2 spp.), are each believed to be monophyletic but nested in Moraea. Morphological and anatomical evidence showing the likely paraphyly of Moraea has now been confirmed by DNA sequence analysis of two chloroplast genes, trnL-F and rbcL. The species of the six genera nested in Moraea are here transferred to the genus. Members of Galaxia, Gynandriris, Hexaglottis, and Homeria are provisionally assigned to sections bearing their names. Barnardiella is included in section Moraea, in which it is evidently closely related to M. rigidifolia. The two species of Roggeveldia are placed in section Polyanthes, and they are believed to be allied to the M. crispa group of that section. New combinations or new names are provided for species transferred to Moraea. Preliminary data show that the infrageneric classification of Moraea will require extensive revision, but until more molecular data are available the current classification of this genus, now including some 200 species, must remain in place.
10.2307/3391564|Expanded descriptions, comments on geographic ranges and infraspecific variation, and complete synonymy are presented for Psychotria minarum, P. galeottiana, and P. phanaerandra (Standley & Steyerm.) Lorence, a new combination made here that is based on Palicourea phanaerandra Standley & Steyerm. The new species Psychotria juarezana C. M. Taylor & Lorence from southern Mexico is also described.
10.2307/3393138|Gonolobus taylorianus, a Mesoamerican endemic, is described and illustrated.
10.2307/3393229|The genera Cardaria (including Hymenophysa), Coronopus, and Stroganowia are hardly distinct morphologically from the larger Lepidium, and the distinctions of all four genera are based solely on a few fruit characters of doubtful value. Recent molecular data strongly suggest that the genera Coronopus and Stroganowia are polyphyletic and, together with Cardaria, are nested within Lepidium. Therefore, they are herein formally united with Lepidium, the earliest published generic name in this group. The new names L. appelianum, L. botschantsevianum, L. buschianum, L. karelinianum, and L. mummenhoffianum are proposed because the transfer of their replaced names to Lepidium would create later homonyms. The following 20 new combinations are proposed: L. brachyotum, L. cardiophyllum, L. englerianum, L. lepidioides, L. litwinowii, L. longifolium, L. minor, L. navasii, L. paniculatum, L. rhytidocarpum, L. robustum, L. sagittatum, L. saravschanicum, L. serratum, L. tianschanicum, L. tiehmii, L. tolmaczovii, L. trautvetteri, L. violaceum, and L. zambiensis.
23259353|A new species, Hoya ignorata T. B. Tran, Rodda, Simonsson & Joongku Lee (Apocynaceae, Asclepiadoideae) is described and illustrated from Vietnam. The new taxon, widely distributed in Southeast Asia, does not seem to be related to any previously described Hoya R. Br., due to its small cupular coronas lacking lobes, and pendulous pollinia. These morphological characters, new for the genus Hoya, are discussed in light of the recent broadening of the circumscription of the genus following the results of molecular phylogenies and morphological studies.
10.2307/3392952|A new species, Alloplectus grandicalyx J. L. Clark & L. E. Skog, is described from northern Ecuador and southern Colombia. Alloplectus grandicalyx is differentiated from other similar species on the basis of larger calyx lobes, longer pedicels, and villous pubescence on the stems, leaves, petioles, and calyx lobes. A key is provided to help distinguish A. grandicalyx from other shrubby and resupinate flowered Alloplectus species. In addition, the commonly confused and widely spread Alloplectus tetragonoides Mansfeld is discussed and neotypified.
23259413|During her main publication period at the University of Michigan from 1926 to 1937, E. W. Erlanson described 18 new Rosa L. species and varieties (Rosaceae), most from the midwestern United States. The majority were grown and hybridized at the University of Michigan Botanical Garden, where she collected many specimens for the University of Michigan Herbarium (MICH) over a period of years. Some living collections were hers, but most were from others who sent living plants usually without voucher specimens. For this reason and the inability until recently to use sheets as types from living collections under specific circumstances, type selections were at times inappropriate. Nevertheless, seven (almost half) of the cited holotypes here are in MICH, in addition to three lectotypes designated here, as well as isotypes and isolectotypes. A total of 40 taxa with either type data or in synonymy are identified in 10 categories of Rosa species, subspecies, and nothospecies following the Flora of North America treatment. Lectotypes are designated here for the following 19 names: R. acicularioides Schuette, R. acicularis Lindl. var. bourgeauiana Crp., R. arkansana Porter, R. blanda Aiton fo. carpohispida Schuette, R. blanda var. glandulosa Schuette, R. blanda var. hermannii Erlanson, R. blanda var. nuda Schuette, R. blanda var. subgeminata Schuette, R. californica Cham. & Schltdl., R. carolina L. var. aculeata (Schuette) Erlanson, R. carolina var. litoralis Erlanson, R. deamii Erlanson, R. gemella Willd., R. nitida Willd., R. carolina var. inermis Schuette, R. carolina var. sepalorelevata Schuette, R. pensylvanica Michx., R. Xrudiuscula (Greene) Erlanson, and R. suffulta Greene var. valida Erlanson. One neotype is designated, R. palustris. In addition, holotypes of the following taxa are identified for the first time: R. blanda var. setigera Crp., R. blanda var. hispida Farw., and R. blanda fo. alba (Schuette ex Erlanson) Fernald.
10.2307/3391390|Two species are added to Cyanea, both endemic to Kaua'i. One is new, based on a recently collected specimen. The other was described previously but excluded from the most recent account of the genus due to the inadequacy of the available material. It is reinstated on the basis of data obtained from several newly collected specimens. The genus now includes 56 species and nine heteronymic subspecies.
10.2307/3391698|The new combination Hyptis conferta var. angustata (Briquet) A. Pool & Harley is made to replace the invalid Hyptis conferta var. angustifolia Bentham.
40856308|Liparis cordifolia Hook. f. var. gongsha nensis X. H. Jin (Orchidaceae, Malaxideae) is described from Yunnan, China. It differs from the typical variety by having larger flowers with the sepals and petals ca. 1.1 cm long (vs. 0.80.9 cm in variety cordifolia) and a circular, ciliate lip with a pair of small calli at the base (vs. lip obovate-deltoid, entire, and ecallose in variety cordifolia). The new variety appears to be restricted to evergreen humid forest in the Dulong River valley (upper portion of the Irrawaddy River), from Yunnan, China. A lectotype is designated for L. cordifolia.
40960821|A new species of Anacampseros L., A. decapitata Burgoyne & J. van Thiel (Portulacaceae), a low-growing leaf succulent from the northwestern part of South Africa, is described. Morphological differences separate it from the two other species of the genus from the same region. Flower, fruit, and seed morphology together with distributional range are described in detail for the new species and compared to that of two associated species. The name A. lubbersii Bleck is neotypified.
10.2307/3393125|Based on a collection from north-central Peru, a new tuberous species of Polypodiaceae is recognized and described as Microgramma fosteri. It differs from other coenosoric species by the presence of laminar scales intermixed among the sori and slender paraphyses with elongate apical cells possessing clear lumina and thin walls. A key for species identification in subgenus Solanopteris, to which the new species belongs, is provided. In addition, a new combination is made for a species previously recognized in the genus Solanopteris.
10.2307/3393519|In this paper, a new subspecies of Hippophae (Elaeagnaceae), H. rhamnoides subsp. wolongensis Y. S. Lian, K. Sun & X. L. Chen, from China is described and illustrated. According to an analysis of the distribution and main characters, it is allied to H. rhamnoides subsp. sinensis Rousi but is distinct in having rosulately arranged flower buds, larger, alternate leaves with usually more or less sinuous margins, longer petioles, and longer peduncles, Hippophae rhamnoides subsp. wolongensis is rare and occurs only in Wenchuan and Mao Counties of Sichuan Province, at 1660-1920 m. A key including five subspecies of Hippophae rhamnoides in China is provided.
10.2307/3392111|A new species, Leiomitra julacea, is proposed for the New Zealand Trichocolea julacea, which is invalid according to the International Code of Botanical Nomenclature. The species is described and illustrated.
10.2307/3391876|Populus wenxianica Z. C. Feng & J. L. Guo ex G. Zhu and Salix suchowensis Cheng ex G. Zhu are validly published here by the designation of holotypes. Nine new combinations, Salix alfredii Grz ex Rehder & Kobuski var. fengxianica (N. Chao) G. Zhu, S. eriostachya Wallich ex Andersson var. lineariloba (N. Chao) G. Zhu, S. fargesii Burkill var. kansuensis (K. S. Hao ex C. F. Fang & Skvortsov) G. Zhu, S. nipponica Franchet & Savatier var. mengshanensis (S. B. Liang) G. Zhu, S. opsimantha C. K. Schneider var. wawashanica (Mao & P. X. He) G. Zhu, S. oritrepha C. K. Schneider var. amnematchinensis (K. S. Hao ex C. F. Fang & Skvortsov) G. Zhu, S. sinica (K. S. Hao ex C. F Fang & Skvortsov) G. Zhu, S. sinica var. dentata (K. S. Hao ex C. F. Fang & Skvortsov) G. Zhu, and S. sinica var. subsessilis (K. S. Hao ex C. F. Fang & Skvortsov) G. Zhu are proposed. Salix hylonoma C. K. Schneider var. liocarpa (Grz) G. Zhu and S. spodiophylla Handel-Mazzetti var. liocarpa (K. S. Hao ex C. F. Fang & Skvortsov) G. Zhu are new statuses and combinations.
10.2307/3393271|In this contribution the following new species of Lauraceae are described: Cinnamomum floccosum from Peru; five species of Licaria, L. exserta from Ecuador and L. subsessilis from Peru and Ecuador, L. filiformis from Peru, L. sessiliflora from Venezuela, and L. rufotomentosa from French Guiana; two species of Mezilaurus, M. campaucola from Peru, and M. manausensis from Brazil; one species of Nectandra, N. tomentosa from Ecuador and Peru; five species of Ocotea, O. arenaria and O. multinervis from Peru, O. brevipetiolata, O. hirtostyla and O. scalariformis from Ecuador; and one species of Pleurothyrium, P. arcuatum from Peru.
20406097|Se registra la presencia de Lophostachys guatemalensis Donnell Smith por primera vez de Mxico. La especie fue colectada en varias localidades de selva mediana subperennifolia de la regin Costa del estado de Oaxaca. Los especmenes encontrados presentan dimensiones algo mayores en los caracteres florales y cpsulas que los descritos previamente, y como presentan una notable disyuncin, se propone una variedad para las poblaciones de Oaxaca: L. guatemalensis var. chontalensis S. Acosta Castellanos & A. Saynes V. /// Lophostachys guatemalensis Donnell Smith is recorded for the first time from Mexico. The species was collected in several localities of tropical semi-evergreen forest from the coast of the state of Oaxaca. The specimens found here have flower characters and capsules somewhat longer than those previously described for the species. Because they show a noteworthy disjunction, a new variety, L. guatemalensis var. chontalensis S. Acosta Castellanos & A. Saynes V., is proposed for the Oaxacan populations.
40856321|Three new species of Myrtaceae from montane forests of the southeastern Brazilian state of Espirito Santo are described, illustrated, and compared with related species: Eugenia crassa Sobral, Myrcia santateresana Sobral, and M. tmida Sobral.Eugenia crassa is closely affined to E. umbrosa O.Berg, from which it is set apart by the smaller and wider leaves (to 170 X 75 mm in E. crassa vs. to 200 X 50 mm), axillary inflorescences, and flowers with larger bracteoles (to 8 mm in E. crassa vs. to 2 mm); M. santateresana is related to M. badia (0. Berg) N.Silveira, from which the new species differs by its smaller leaves (to 140 X 50 mm in M. santateresana vs. to 200 X 50 mm) with discontinuous marginal veins and smaller (buds to 2 mm in M. santateresana vs. to 4 mm), glabrous flowers without a calyx tube; M.tmida is close to M. guianensis (Aubl.) DC, differing by its swollen calyx lobes, larger fruits (to 18 mm in M. tmida vs. to 10 mm), and longer petioles (to 13 mm in M. tmida vs. to 6 mm). So descritas e ilustradas trs novas espcies de Myrtaceae da floresta ombrfila montana do Esprito Santo, Brasil: Eugenia crassa Sobral, Myrcia santateresana Sobral e M. tumida Sobral. Eugenia crassa  prxima de E. umbrosa O. Berg, diferindo pelas folhas menores e mais largas (at 170 X 75 mm em E. crassa vs. at 200  50 mm), inflorescncias axilares e flores com bractolas maiores (at 8 mm em E. crassa vs. at 2 mm); M. santateresana  prxima a M. badia (0. Berg) N. Silveira, diferindo pelas folhas menores (at 140  50 mm em M. santateresana vs.at 200 X 50 mm) com nervura marginal descontinua, flores glabras e menores (botes at 2 mm em M. santateresana vs. at 4 mm) e tubo do clice ausente; e M. tmida  prxima a M.guianensis (Aubl.) DC, da quai difere pelas flores com lobos do calice engrossados, frutos maiores (at 18 mm em M. tmida vs. at 10 mm) e pecolos mais longos (at 13 mm em M. tmida vs. at 6 mm).
10.2307/3392958|Almost 11% of the 400 unidentified specimens of South American Lobelioideae (Campanulaceae) examined recently cannot be equated with any known species. They are described here as 17 new species: 6 of Burmeistera, 6 of Centropogon, and 5 of Siphocampylus. Several are characterized by morphological characters or combinations of characters that are unique or unusual in their respective genera or in the subfamily as a whole. Six of the novelties are endemic to Ecuador, four to Peru, three each to Venezuela and Colombia, and one to Bolivia.
3393483|Protium aidanianum (Burseraceae), a distinctive new species from western Amazonian Ecuador and Peru, is described, illustrated, and discussed. It resembles P. nodulosum Swart because of its large, coriaceous leaflets and large, brownish, substipitate, lenticellate fruits, but the new species has leaves 5- or 6-jugate (vs. 2- to 4-jugate), lateral leaflet base truncate to slightly cordate (vs. usually acute), inflorescence shorter than the petiole of the subtending leaf, flowers 4-merous (not 5-merous), petals glabrous and not persistent in fruit (vs. pubescent and often persistent and reflexed in young fruits), pistillode glabrous, and fruit larger and with rounded (vs. acuminate) apex. It resembles P. glabrescens Swart due to its robust branchlets, the inflorescence shorter than the petiole of the subtending leaf, and the petiole often turning black and exfoliating, but the new species differs by its deeply canaliculate petiole, higher-order venation impressed adaxially, shorter pedicel, petal margin long-papillate, and fruit brown or coffee-colored and much larger. The fact that only 1 of the 16 collections known to date has flowers highlights both the difficulty of finding flowering material and the need to actively seek it, particularly for dioecious tropical trees with small green flowers.
10.2307/3392976|Cardamine changbaiana, C. fargesiana, and C. lihengiana are described as new, and their relationships and distinguishing characters are discussed. The new combination C. purpurascens is proposed, and a detailed description and specimen citation of this poorly understood species of Cardamine are provided.
40300938|Psoralidium tenuiflorum (Pursh) Rydberg, the type of Psoralidium Rydberg, is transferred to Pediomelum Rydberg requiring a new combination, Pediomelum tenuiflonim (Pursh) A. N. Egan in tribe Psoraleeae Lowe (Fabaceae/Leguminosae). Previously published evidence on phylogenetic relationships provides a foundation for this combination, as do shared morphological traits such as persistent bracts and an elliptical fruit that falls with the calyx. A new genus, Ladeania A. N. Egan & Reveal, is described to accommodate the two remaining species previously in Psoralidium: L. juncea (Eastwood) A. N. Egan & Reveal and L. lanceolata (Pursh) A. N. Egan & Reveal, with the latter designated as the type. Ladeania is distinguished by readily deciduous bracts accompanying a calyx that does not enlarge or elongate in fruit, but flares back from the receptacle. A lectotype is designated for Psoralea floribunda Nuttall ex Torrey & A. Gray.
10.2307/3391578|Dendrobium brevicaudum D. L. Jones & M. Clements is described for the forthcoming orchid volume of the Flora of Australia.
43289116|The names of 14 taxa of Rapanea Aubl. are transferred to Myrsine L. (Myrsinaceae). The 14 new combinations include: M. acutiloba (Mez) Ricketson & Pipoly [ R. acutiloba Mez]; M. amischocarpa (A. C. Sm.) Ricketson & Pipoly [ R. amischocarpa A. C. Sm.]; M. boivinii (Mez) Ricketson & Pipoly [ R. boivinii Mez]; M. comorensis (Mez) Ricketson & Pipoly [ R. comorensis Mez]; M. courboniana (Mez) Ricketson & Pipoly [ R. courboniana Mez]; M. crassiramea (A. C. Sm.) Ricketson & Pipoly [ R. crassiramea A. C. Sm.]; M. daphnoides (Mez) Ricketson & Pipoly [ R. daphnoides Mez]; M. forbesii (Mez) Ricketson & Pipoly [ R. forbesii Mez]; M. griffithiana (Mez) Ricketson & Pipoly [ R. griffithiana Mez]; M. hadrocarpa (A. C. Sm.) Ricketson & Pipoly [ R. hadrocarpa A. C. Sm.]; M. longipes (A. C. Sm.) Ricketson & Pipoly [ R. longipes A. C. Sm.]; M. polyantha (A. C. Sm.) Ricketson & Pipoly [ R. polyantha A. C. Sm.; M. seychellarum (Mez) Ricketson & Pipoly [ R. seychellarum Mez]; and M. striata (Mez) Ricketson & Pipoly [ R. striata Mez]. Six binomials are lectotypified: M. boivinii (Mez) Ricketson & Pipoly; M. comorensis (Mez) Ricketson & Pipoly; M. forbesii (Mez) Ricketson & Pipoly; M. griffithiana (Mez) Ricketson & Pipoly; M. seychellarum (Mez) Ricketson & Pipoly; M. striata (Mez) Ricketson & Pipoly. Se transfiere 14 especies pertenecientes al gnero Rapanea al gnero Myrsine. Las transferencias estn enumeradas en la lista a continuacin: M. acutiloba (Mez) Ricketson & Pipoly [ R. acutiloba Mez]; M. amischocarpa (A. C. Sm.) Ricketson & Pipoly [ R. amischocarpa A. C. Sm.]; M. boivinii (Mez) Ricketson & Pipoly [ R. boivinii Mez]; M. comorensis (Mez) Ricketson & Pipoly [ R. comorensis Mez]; M. courboniana (Mez) Ricketson & Pipoly [ R. courboniana Mez]; M. crassiramea (A. C. Sm.) Ricketson & Pipoly [ R. crassiramea A. C. Sm.]; M. daphnoides (Mez) Ricketson & Pipoly [ R. daphnoides Mez]; M. forbesii (Mez) Ricketson & Pipoly [ R. forbesii Mez]; M. gnffithiana (Mez) Ricketson & Pipoly [ R. griffithiana Mez]; M. hadrocarpa (A. C. Sm.) Ricketson & Pipoly [ R. hadrocarpa A. C. Sm.]; M. longipes (A. C. Sm.) Ricketson & Pipoly [ R. longipes A. C. Sm.]; M. polyantha (A. C. Sm.) Ricketson & Pipoly [ R polyantha A. C. Sm.; M. seychellarum (Mez) Ricketson & Pipoly [ R. seychellarum Mez]; y M. striata (Mez) Ricketson & Pipoly [ R. striata Mez]. Se lectotipifican seis binomios: M. boivinii (Mez) Ricketson & Pipoly; M. comorensis (Mez) Ricketson & Pipoly; M. forbesii (Mez) Ricketson & Pipoly; M. griffithiana (Mez) Ricketson & Pipoly; M. seychellarum (Mez) Ricketson & Pipoly; M. striata (Mez) Ricketson & Pipoly.
10.2307/3393187|Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie de Croton de la Guayana colombiana, Croton araracuarae. Debido a la pubescencia estrellada, estpulas enteras, y sobre todo por el espacio conspcuo entre las flores masculinas y femeninas de la misma inflorescencia, esta especie pertenece a la seccn Podostachys, a pesar de poseer estilos bfidos y tener las hojas con venacin pinnada. Se distingue de los dems miembros de la seccin en sus hojas enteras y angostamente lanceoladas, y en tener las glndulas ssiles en el pice del pecolo. /// A new species of Croton from the Colombian Guayana is described and illustrated as Croton araracuarae. By virtue of its stellate pubescence, entire stipules, and especially by the evident space between the staminate and pistillate flowers, it belongs to section Podostachys, even though it has bifid styles and pinnate leaf venation. It is differentiated from the other members of the section by its entire, narrowly lanceolate leaves and by the sessile glands at the apex of the petioles.
10.2307/3391952|Blakea tapantiana, a new Costa Rican endemic, is described, illustrated, and compared with B. grandiflora, an allopatric Costa Rican endemic that occurs at higher elevations and flowers sporadically throughout the year. The new species is distinguished by its short-pedicellate flowers, caudate-acuminate outer floral bracts, white petals, and unappendaged anther thecae.
10.2307/3393233|Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie de Rytidosperma (R. quirihuense; Poaceae: Arundinoideae: Danthonieae) para sudamrica. Esta especie crece en el centro-sur de Chile (3613'S, 7245'W). Morfolgicamente es muy diferente al resto del grupo sudamericano. Slo presenta afinidades fenticas con Rytidosperma paschale, de la cual se diferencia por la pancula dstica, por el tamao de la espiguilla terminal, por la densidad y longitud de pelos de los fascculos de la lemma, entre los caracteres ms importantes. /// A new species of Rytidosperma (R. quirihuense; Poaceae: Arundinoideae: Danthonieae) from south-central Chile (3613'S, 7245'W) is described and illustrated. It differs morphologically from other South American representatives of the genus. Its closest phenetic affinities are with Rytidosperma paschale, from which it differs in possesion of a distichous panicule, as well as differences in size of the terminal spikelet, and in the density and length of hairs on the fascicules of the lemma.
10.2307/3391736|A new species of deciduous azalea, Rhododendron eastmanii, has been discovered in South Carolina, U.S.A. This azalea can be distinguished from the other members of Rhododendron sect. Pentanthera by its distinctive morphology, flowering time, and fragrance. It is presently known only from Orangeburg and Richland counties.
3393476|Clematis erectisepala, a new species of Ranunculaceae collected from Yanjing Village of Markam County in eastern Tibet, is described and illustrated. It is distinguished from other Clematis by its nodding yellow flowers with erect sepals and glabrous stamens. This new species is similar to C. brevicaudata DC. vegetatively, but differs from the latter in floral structure.
10.2307/3392968|The new species Gonzalagunia osaensis C. M. Taylor, found from central Panama to eastern Costa Rica, is described and illustrated; it has previously been confused with G. rudis (Standley) Standley. The new species Sabicea chocoana C. M. Taylor, found from eastern Panama to western Colombia, is also described and illustrated; it has previously been confused with S. panamensis Wernham.
10.2307/3392240|Polygonum caurianum subsp. hudsonianum is raised to species rank. Polygonum bistortoides is transferred to Persicaria, and Polygonum alaskanum var. glabrescens is transferred to Aconogonon.
20406023|The new species Passiflora sandrae from Panama is described and illustrated from living and herbarium material. It is placed in subgenus Decaloba supersection Decaloba on the basis of the plicate operculum, cernuous shoot tip, transversely sulcate testa, and variegated bilobed leaves. This vine previously has been confused with P. biflora.
10.2307/3393521|Posoqueria bahiensis from southern Bahia, Brazil, is described as a new species. It differs most notably from all the other species of the genus in being totally glabrous except at the corolla fauce and anthers and in the densely multiflowered inflorescence with ca. 40 flowers.
10.2307/3393082|Miconia ceramicarpa (Melastomataceae) is commonly found in the tropical forest of French Guiana. A study of the taxonomy, vegetative architecture, and inflorescence structures showed the existence of an undescribed variety, Miconia ceramicarpa var. crozieriae. /// Miconia ceramicarpa est abondamment rencontre en fort tropicale de Guyane franaise. Une tude de la taxonomie, de l'architecture vgtative et des structures inflorescentielles a montr la prsence d'une nouvelle varit, Miconia ceramicarpa var. crozieriae.
27765207|Catolesia D. J. N. Hind is an endemic, previously monotypie genus (Asteraceae, Eupatorieae) from the campos rupestres of Bahia, Brazil. A second species for the genus, C huperzioides Roque, H. Robinson & A. A. Conceio, is recognized and described here. It is distinguished from C. mentiens D. J. N. Hind principally by the well-organized terminal synflorescence composed of (7)8 to 12 capitula, of which one is central and larger, its shorter leaves (45 mm vs. 719 mm in C. mentiens), its white corolla (vs. pink), and the pappus (a brief crown to 0.1 mm vs. mostly absent). Catolesia kuperzioides is known only from the municipality of Mucug and is probably endemic to the Chapada Diamantina Region of Bahia, Brazil.
40960839|A new genus of the Lauraceae, Yasunia van der Werff, is described. It consists of two undescribed species, Y. quadrata van der Werff and Y. sessiliflora van der Werff, known from lowland rainforest in Ecuador and Peru. The new genus is closely related to Beilschmiedia Nees, but differs in its conspicuous, pubescent staminodia, exserted stamens, and reduced number of stamens. The relationships of the new genus and its placement in the Cryptocaryeae are discussed.
23018477|Fagopyrum qiangcai D. Q. Bai and F. wenchuanense J. R. Shao, two new species of Polygonaceae from Wenchuan County, Sichuan Province, China, are described and illustrated. Fagopyrum qiangcai is closely related to F. esculentum Moench based on its leafy base, triangular leaves, and terminal or axillary racemes. The new species differs in having congested nodes at the base of the plant, triangular to oval terminal leaves with bright red veins, dense inflorescences, white punctate adaxial leaf surfaces, and an articulate pedicel. Fagopyrum qiangcai is diploid, 2n = 2x = 16, with a karyotype of 12 metacentric and four submetacentric chromosomes. Fagopyrum wenchuanense is closely related to F. gracilipes (Hemsl.) Dammer ex Diels but differs in its caespitose habit, the plants often with prostrate stems. Its leaves vary from broadly cordate to ovate to hastate or long hastate, the pedicels are basally puberulent, the stamens and pistils are variable in length, and the capsules are ellipsoid-triangular or broadly ovoid-triangular, 33.5  2.53 mm. Fagopyrum wenchuanense is diploid, 2n = 2x = 16, with a karyotype of 16 metacentric chromosomes.
10.2307/3391452|A new species of spider-lily, Hymenocallis godfreyi, is described and illustrated. It is a rare endemic that occurs in the St. Marks marsh at the confluence of the St. Marks and Wakulla Rivers, Florida. Its striking features are contrasted to an allied species, Hymenocallis rotata (Ker-Gawler) Herbert.
40856296|Anticipating the forthcoming first-ever published synthesis of the taxonomy, systematics, and nomenclature of the liverwort family Gymnomitriaceae H. Klinggr., where almost 800 names are treated in detail, we here provide 10 nomenclatural actions. Four new combinations are made: Gymnomitrion bolivianum (Steph.) Va, G. minutulum (Hssel) Va, G. nigrum (Grolle & Va) Va, and G. subintegrum (S. W. Arnell) Va. Lectotypification is presented for the following six names: Acolea brevissima Schleich, ex Dumort., G. sinense Mll. Frib., G. verrucosum W. E. Nicholson, Jungermannia sphacelata Giesecke ex Lindenb., J. divaricata Sm. var. latifolia Lindb. ex Norrl., and Marsupella disticha Steph.
20406251|Varronia lantanifolia J. S. Miller & J. R. I. Wood (Cordiaceae) is described from dry forest areas of Bolivia. This new species can be distinguished from other South American species of Varronia P. Browne with capitate inflorescences by the combination of evenly serrate, ovate, petiolate leaves; white puberulent, deltate calyx lobes with 1-2 mm long filiform apices; and a 10-15 mm long funnelform corolla. /// Se presenta una descripcin de Varronia lantanifolia J. S. Miller & J. R. I. Wood (Cordiaceae) de los bosques secos de Bolivia. Se puede distinguir esta especie nueva de las otras especies sudamericanas de Varronia P. Browne que tambin tiene las flores dispuestas en cabezuelas por las hojas ovadas, petioladas, uniformemente serradas combinadas con los lobulos del calyce dentados con los vertices filiformes y la corolla infundibuliforme, 10-15 mm de largura.
10.2307/3392066|The lone high-elevation species of Ternstroemia that occurs in central Mexico has gone for many years under the name Ternstroemia pringlei (Rose) Standley. The much older name Ternstroemia lineata de Candolle, based on a painting of a plant from the same general area, has mostly been overlooked or considered to be unidentifiable. This article provides typification for the relevant taxa, synonymy, and documentation for the identity of T. lineata.
3393488| Capparis sclerophylla (subg. Cynophalla), Capparaceae, a sharply distinct new species of shrub or small tree, differs from other, often dominant, related, but often difficult to distinguish species of subgenus Cynophalla by thick, hard, stiff, xerophyllous leaves, these subsessile on short (1-4 mm), dark-brown to black, rigid and fragile petioles; by large white flowers spirally disposed with reflexed petals usually borne on thick, congested, short, and rigid raceme axes; by long-gynophored, usually slender siliques with white pulp, white seed arils and green embryos; and by its restriction to arid deciduous thornscrub near the Pacific Ocean from northwestern-most Peru to west-central Ecuador. Its closest relative appears to be C. verrucosa of Mexico to Venezuela. A cytotaxonomic survey of subgenus Cynophalla proves it to be a polyploid series, with base number of n = 14, 2n = 28 (x = 14, 28, 56, 84), represented by C. flexuosa and other species; several of these chromosome numbers are reported here for the first time, but the number for C. sclerophllya is as yet unknown. /// Capparis sclerophylla (subg. Cynophalla), Capparaceae, es una nueva y claramente distinta especie de arbusto o arbolillo que difiere de las otras especies del subg. Cynophalla, frecuentemente dominantes, relacionadas, pero usualmente dificiles de distinguir, por poseer hojas xerfilas, rgidas, gruesas, subssiles, con pecolos muy cortos (1-4 mm), rgidos, frgiles, de color caf-obscuro a negro; grandes flores blancas con ptalos reflexos que nacen en los ejes gruesos, cortos, rgidos y ssiles de los racimos congestos; silicuas delgadas con ginforos largos, pulpa y arilo de la semilla blancos y embriones verdes; y por estar restringida al monte espinoso y bosque muy seco deciduo, cerca del Oceano Pacfico, en la costa del noroccidente de Per hasta el oeste-central de Ecuador. Su pariente ms cercano parece ser C. verrucosa, distribuida desde Mxico hasta Venezuela. Un estudio citotaxonmico del subg. Cynophalla demuestra que es una serie poliploide, con un nmero base de n = 14, 2n = 28 (x = 14, 28, 56, 84), representada por C. flexuosa y otras especies; se presenta algunos de estos nmeros cromosmicos aqu por primera vez, pero el nmero de C. sclerophylla es an desconocido. 
10.2307/3393236|A new species, Croton kongkandanus Esser, is described from Thailand, based mainly on its large fruits. The name of Croton lissophyllus from India and Bangladesh is validated, and C. laniflorus Geiseler is recognized as the valid name for the poorly known and illegitimate Croton lanatus Loureiro from Vietnam and described here. Seven taxa of Southeast Asian Croton are lectotypified, two new synonyms are proposed, and two potential ones are discussed, some of them in preparation for inclusion in the Flora of Thailand.
10.2307/3393142|During preparation of a treatment of Persea for the Flora Mesoamericana three new species were recognized. A description of these species (Persea albiramea van der Werff, P. brevipetiolata van der Werff, and P. laevifolia van der Werff) is presented, as well as a key to all the known species in the Flora Mesoamericana region including brief notes giving synonyms, distribution, and noteworthy features for these species.
27765221|Douglasia conservatorum Bjrk is described as a new species from a single population in the Coeur d'Alene Mountains along the Idaho/Montana border in the United States. With other members of the genus, it shares a pink corolla color, branched and stellate trichomes, and pulvinate habit. Within Douglasia Lindl., it is unique in possessing papillae on the leaves, and additionally differs in its combination of traits of leaf shape, flower number, shape of the involucre bracts, and distribution and morphology of trichomes. Its morphology and range suggest that it is related to other temperate-climate Douglasia species, in contrast to all species in the northern, (sub)Arctic center of diversity. A key to Douglasia is presented. Like all other members of the genus, D. conservatorum is endemic to a small geographic range. The ecology and conservation priority of the species are discussed.
20406316|The new combination, Piptochaetium depressum (Steudel) C. Pea, is proposed for the Poaceae (Stipeae) based on lemma shape and ornamentation that clearly distinguishes Chilean plants. A key is provided to distinguish six species in Chile, with a morphological description and SEM images for the new combination.
10.2307/3391594|A new species of Schiedea is described and illustrated. It is restricted to the sheer Kalalau cliffs on the island of Kaua'i, the oldest main island of the Hawaiian Islands. It is most closely related to the sea-cliff species S. globosa H. Mann from O'ahu, Moloka'i, and Maui.
23259428|Two new varieties of Orychophragmus violaceus (L.) O. E. Schultz (Brassicaceae) are described from Heilongjiang Province in northeastern China. The new variety, O. violaceus var. odontopetalus Ling Wang & Chuan P. Yang, differs from the typical variety of the species in that the petal has five or more obtuse teeth (vs. smooth petals) in the upper third of the expanded petal. The clawed petals have an expanded apical section that is 1013 mm long (vs. 713 mm), and the stems and pedicels are puberulent (vs. glabrous). A second new variety is O. violaceus var. variegatus Ling Wang & Chuan P. Yang, which differs from the typical variety by the marked petal variegation of white and purple (vs. no petal variegation). The uppermost leaves are often undivided, with sharply serrate margins (vs. irregularly toothed leaves). These distinctions have persisted and been stable after eight years of cultivation in field experiments in Heilongjiang. A key to the infraspecific taxa of O. violaceus is included. Both new varieties are cataloged as of Least Concern (LC), based on IUCN Red List categories and criteria.
40960834|A complete list of accepted names for the Neotropical genus Stylogyne A. DC. (Myrsinaceae) comprises 35 species and two subspecies. The name Stylogyne lateriflora (Sw.) Mez is neotypified. The following 21 names are lectotypified: Ardisia clusioides Griseb., A. hostmannii Miq., A. surinamensis Miq., Stylogyne amazonica Mez, S. atra Mez, S. balaensis Mez, S. canaliculata (Lodd.) Mez, S. depauperata Mez, S. flumensis (Mez) Ricketson & Pipoly, S. funckiana Mez, S. kappleri Mez, S. micans Mez, S. nigricans (A. DC.) Mez, S. pauciflora Mez, S. poeppigii Mez, S. sellowiana Mez, S. serpentina Mez, S. sordida Mez, S. spruceana Mez, S. venezuelana Mez, and S. warmingii Mez. One error in the original protologue is corrected for S. darienensis Lundell. Two new combinations, S. fluminensis (Mez) Ricketson & Pipoly and S. sublaevigata (Kuntze) Ricketson & Pipoly, are made. Finally, 13 names are newly synonymized within Stylogyne. Se presenta una lista completa de los nombres aceptados para el gnero Neotropical Stylogyne A. DC., incluyendo a 35 especies y dos subespecies. Se neotipifica el binomio Stylogyne lateriflora (Sw.) Mez y se lectotipifican veintiun bionomios listados a continuacin: Ardisia clusioides Griseb., A. hostmannii Miq., A. surinamensis Miq., Stylogyne amazonica Mez, S. atra Mez, S. balaensis Mez, S. canaliculata (Lodd.) Mez, S. depauperata Mez, S. flumensis (Mez) Ricketson & Pipoly, S. funckiana Mez, S. kappleri Mez, S. micans Mez, S. nigricans (A. DC.) Mez, S. pauciflora Mez, S. poeppigii Mez, S. sellowiana Mez, S. serpentina Mez, S. sordida Mez, S. spruceana Mez, S. venezuelana Mez y S. warmingii Mez. Se corrige un error dentro del protlogo de S. darienensis Lundell. Se propone dos nueva combinaciones, S. fluminensis (Mez) Ricketson & Pipoly y S. sublaevigata (Kuntze) Ricketson & Pipoly. Adems, se relegan 13 bionomios a la sinonma dentro del gnero Stylogyne.
20406008|Based on flower and seed morphology, it is proposed to include the genus Sinia in Sauvagesia s.l. As a result, the new combination Sauvagesia rhodoleuca (Diels) M. C. E. Amaral becomes necessary. /// Com base na morfologia de flores e sementes, prope-se incluir o gnero Sinia em Sauvagesia s.l. Em conseqncia, a nova combinao Sauvagesia rhodoleuca (Diels) M. C. E. Amaral tornase necessria.
10.2307/3392162|Poupartia orientalis Capuron ex A. Randrianasolo & J. S. Miller is described from Madagascar, and its distribution, habitat, and phenology are discussed. Poupartia orientalis is similar to P. silvatica H. Perrier but is distinct in its evergreen habit and subcoriaceous leaflets with fewer and less prominent tertiary veins.
3393352| Se describen e ilustran dos nuevas especies de Melica L. (Poaceae: Meliceae), M. animarum y M. serrana, endmicas de la Sierra de nimas (Maldonado, Uruguay). Melica animarum y M. serrana son afines a M. hyalina Dll. Melica animarum se diferencia de M. hyalina por la gluma inferior elptica, de pice dentado y la lema de pice bidentado de bordes irregulares. Melica serrana se diferencia de M. hyalina por la gluma inferior obovada, de pice emarginado e irregular y la lema de pice irregular eroso. /// Two new species of Melica L. (Poaceae: Meliceae), M. animarum and M. serrana, endemic to the Sierra de nimas (Maldonado, Uruguay), are described and illustrated. Melica animarum and M. serrana are related to M. hyalina Dll. Melica animarum is differentiated from M. hyalina by the elliptic lower glume, with a dentate apex and lemma with bidentate apex and irregular margins. Melica serrana is differentiated from M. hyalina Dll by the obovate lower glume, with an emarginated and irregular apex and lemma with an irregular and erose apex. 
10.2307/3393192|During preparation of the account of Zingiberaceae for the Flora of China, volume 24, it was noticed that one species, Zingiber koshunense Hayata, reported from Taiwan in 1930, was invalidly named because no description was provided. The species was later described in 1978 as Z. koshunense Hayata ex C. T. Moo, but the name remained invalid because, although two specimens were cited, there was no indication of a type. The name is here validated, with one of these specimens designated as the holotype.
10.2307/3391671|Recent collections and new morphological information justify the transfer of Pireella cavifolia to Porotrichum and its treatment within Neckeraceae in the Moss Flora of Mexico.
20406178|Onosma bisotunensis Attar & Hamzeh'ee (Boraginaceae), a new species from western Iran, is described and illustrated. It is distinguished from its nearest relative, O. hebebulbum DC., by having a pilose (vs. glabrous) nectariferous ring, a bilabiate (vs. regular) calyx with two or three basally connate (vs. free) lobes and larger corolla ca. 19 mm (vs. 15 mm) long and pubescent (vs. densely villous) outside, and anthers 8-8.5 mm (vs. 6-7 mm) long.
10.2307/3392224|Sloanea geniculata Damon A. Smith, S. laevigata Damon A. Smith, and S. rugosa Damon A. Smith are described from Nicaragua and Costa Rica based primarily on stamen, foliage, and stipule characters. They are differentiated from the most closely related S. faginea Standley, S. schomburgkii Bentham, and S. meianthera Donnell Smith, respectively, and Latin diagnoses, specimen lists, and summaries of distinguishing features are provided. Illustrations are also provided for S. geniculata and S. rugosa.
10.2307/3391425|The discovery that one of the syntypes cited by Engler under the name Tapirira marchandii is also the type for an earlier, validly published name, Mauria obtusa Bentham, necessitates the transfer of Mauria obtusa to Tapirira. The new combination Tapirira obtusa takes priority over Tapirira marchandii Engler.
10.2307/3391912|Two narrowly endemic bamboos from Colombia are described, illustrated, and compared to their putative relatives. Neurolepis silverstonei Davidse & L. G. Clark is described from collections made on Cerro del Torr, Choc. It is related to N. aperta but differs in its smaller stature, leaves, ligules, and inflorescences, and in its longer spikelets and lower sterile lemma. Neurolepis petiolata Davidse & L. G. Clark is described from Antioquia. It is unique in the genus in possessing a pilose callus and is unusual in its long and highly differentiated pseudopetioles. It is probably closely related to N. aperta, but additionally differs from that species by longer spikelets, and characters of the sterile lemmas and the palea.
10.2307/3392172|Parodiolyra colombiensis, endemic to eastern Colombia, is described and illustrated. It differs from the three currently recognized species of Parodiolyra in its pitted female lemmas and in its 3-nerved lower female glumes. Its filiform female pedicels, thickened rachilla internode between the female glumes, prolongation of the rachilla between the glume and the anthoecium, and small, awnless female spikelets are characters it shares with the previously known species of Parodiolyra. Because Olyra micrantha possesses these last four characters (except its female spikelets are awned), and in addition has a relatively short hilum, it is transferred to Parodiolyra. Because P. colombiensis and P. micrantha share pitted lemmas, they are believed to be more closely related to each other than to any other species in the genus Parodiolyra. A key to the five species of Parodiolyra is provided.
10.2307/3391460|Evidence from the literature of the close relationship of Festuca subg. Schedonorus to Lolium and its relatively distant relationship to Festuca subg. Festuca is briefly discussed. New combinations, Lolium subg. Schedonorus, Lolium arundinaceum, Lolium giganteum, Lolium mazzettianum, and Lolium pratense, are proposed to reconcile classification with known phylogeny.
3393406| Hortia nudipetala Groppo and H. vandelliana Groppo (Rutaceae, Toddalioideae, Toddaliinae) from Amazonia are described and illustrated. The first species is known from the sandy, periodically inundated margins of tributaries of the upper Rio Negro, and the second from Brazilian and Venezuelan Amazonia. Comments on affinities of the two species, geographic distribution, and phenology are provided. /// Hortia nudipetala Groppo e H. vandelliana Groppo (Rutaceae, Toddalioideae, Toddaliinae) da Amaznia so descritas e ilustradas. A primeira espcie  conhecida das margens arenosas e periodicamente inundadas dos tributrios do alto Rio Negro e a segunda da Amaznia Brasileira e Venezuelana. So apresentados comentrios sobre as afinidades, distribuio geogrfica e fenologia das duas espcies. 
10.2307/3391867|The monotypic genus Salpinctes is reduced to synonymy of Mandevilla. A new combination is proposed here.
10.2307/3392197|Dioscorea davidsei, a new species from Panama, is described and illustrated, and its relationships are discussed. The new species is distinguished from D. megalantha, D. furcata, D. hieronymi, and D. sellowiana, sect. Cycladenium from South America, by its sessile and conspicuously open and patent perianth.
23259416|Psychotria kosraensis Lorence & K. R. Wood (Rubiaceae, Rubioideae), a narrow endemic from Kosrae, Caroline Islands, Federated States of Micronesia (FSM), is described and illustrated. The new species differs from other known species of Psychotria L. in Micronesia by its combination of narrowly obovate-elliptic or narrowly elliptic leaves with long-acuminate apex and abaxially barbate leaf axils, pseudoaxillary fasciculate inflorescences with very short peduncles ca. 1 mm, flowers with a long calyx tube with narrowly triangular lobes, and villosulous fruits crowned with the persistent well-developed calyx tube and lobes. Known from a single population of five individuals, P. kosraensis easily falls into the IUCN Red List category of Critically Endangered (CR).
10.2307/3392122|The recent synonymization of Hypsela reniformis with Pratia repens has necessitated several nomenclatural changes. The enlarged circumscription of P repens dictates the validation of a new combination to cover the species when it is considered a member of Lobelia. Because H. reniformis was the type of its genus, its three remaining congeners can no longer employ that generic name. They are transferred to Isotoma, from which they differ solely in the possession of indehiscent (vs. capsular) fruit.
10.2307/3391454|No type was designated in the protologue of Godwinia gigas Seemann, the basionym of Dracontium gigas (Seemann) Engler. The only herbarium collection mentioned in the original description cannot be located, and the surviving original material consists of a plate with three distinct elements. One of these elements is here designated the lectotype of Godwinia gigas. Since neither the lectotype nor the other two elements on the plate are identifiable to species, the type is ambiguous and not of practical utility for the precise application of the name. The Tokyo Code provides a mechanism for unequivocally fixing the application of a name in cases where the holotype or lectotype does not suffice to do so. Article 9.7 permits the designation of an interpretative epitype, comprising an element considered representative by the monographer. Several herbarium collections were prepared from a cultivated plant collected by the author when G. gigas was described. One of these, a fertile specimen prepared by N. E. Brown, is here designated an epitype.
10.2307/3391749|In 1987 Harold St. John published 69 names in Hawaiian Cucurbitaceae in four short papers. The nomenclature is analyzed, and the complete nomenclature of the Hawaiian species of Sicyos is presented, including 105 names. Names described by St. John in Sicyos and the segregate genus Cladocarpa were incorporated by Telford in his 1990 treatment, but those names described in the segregate genera Sarx (1 name) and Sicyocarya (14 names) were not treated and are here placed in Telford's classification. Five of the taxa described by St. John in 1987 were recognized in Telford's taxonomy (Cladocarpa herbstii [= Sicyos herbstii], Sicyos hillebrandii var. anunu [= S. anunu], S. erostratus, S. waimanaloensis, and Sicyocarya lanceoloidea [as sp. A = Sicyos lanceoloideus]). Two of these were transferred to Sicyos by Telford, and one of them is here transferred to Sicyos [Sicyocarya lanceoloidea]. All of the other taxa described by St. John are placed in the synonymy of other species. Five of the names were not validly published (Cladocarpa kawelaensis, Sicyocarya cruralis, Sicyocarya hawaiiensis, Sicyos erostratus var. kealiaensis, and Sicyos microcarpus var. kealiaensis).
10.2307/3392193|Se describe una nueva especie del gnero Setaria para Sudamrica, S. nicorae Pensiero, la que se ilustra y compara con las especies afines. /// A new species of Setaria, S. nicorae Pensiero, from South America is described, illustrated, and compared with its relatives.
10.2307/3391740|A second African species of Villarsia, V. goldblattiana, is described from South Africa. The genus otherwise is Australian (13 species) and southeastern Asian (1 species). Villarsia goldblattiana differs from V. capensis in its larger ovule number, glabrous seeds, longer calyx lobes, taller inflorescences, and apparent requirement of fire to induce flowering. It is known only from the southern Cape Peninsula. Both South African Villarsia species are tetraploid with 2n = 36. An emended description of V. capensis is given, and the origin and location of its holotype and of the holotypes of the synonyms Menyanthes ovata L. f. and M. capensis Thunberg are discussed.
40856319|Hedysarum orumiehense Ranjbar and H. neyshaboricum Ranjbar, two new species endemic to Iran, are described and illustrated. Both new species belong to section Multicaulia Boiss. in Hedysarum L.(Fabaceae) and are distinct among Iranian species.The former species is closely related to H. atropatanum Bunge ex Boiss. and is distinguished by its glabrous pods, the leaflets in eight to 11 pairs, and the longer corolla wings (10-11 mm). The latter is distinguished from H. paucifoliolatum Ranjbar & Olanj by its longer peduncles (20-27 cm), stipules (7 9 X 4 -5 mm), and corolla standard (15-17 X 13-14 mm). Both H. orumiehense and H neyshaboricum are evaluated as Vulnerable (VU) according to IUCN Red List criteria.
10.2307/3393559|Two new species of Xyris from peninsular Florida, in the southeastern United States, are described, illustrated, and discussed as to their ecological, geographical, and taxonomic relationships with other Xyris. Xyris calcicola is found primarily in central and southern Florida in calcareous habitats. Xyris correlliorum is endemic to southern Lake Wales Ridge lakes and is distinguished by its evident rhizomes, deeply lacerate petals, and elongated spikes. Xyris floridana is proposed as a change in taxonomic rank. A key is provided for all 24 Xyris species in Florida.
3393475| Two new species of Senecio L. from Argentina, S. fragrantissimus and S. pumilus, are described and illustrated. Both species belong to Senecio ser. Xerosenecio (Cabrera) Cabrera & S. E. Freire and are allied to S. filaginoides DC., from which S. fragrantissimus differs by its ascending branches with needle-like leaves crowded along the stems, and S. pumilus diverges by its dwarf cushion-like habit and elliptic, thicker leaves. A key is included to those species affined to S. filaginoides. /// Se describen e ilustran dos nuevas especies de Senecio L. de Argentina, S. fragrantissimus y S. pumilus. Ambas pertenecen a Senecio serie Xerosenecio (Cabrera) Cabrera & S. E. Freire y son afines a S. filaginoides DC., de la cual S. fragrantissimus difiere por sus ramas ascendentes con hojas aciculares aglomeradas a lo largo de las ramas, y S. pumilus diverge por formar cojines con hojas elpticas ms crasas. Se incluye una clave para las especies afines a S. filaginoides. 
23018468|Se describe el gnero Balsas J. Jimnez Ram. & K. Vega con una especie nueva, B. guerrerensis Cruz Durn & K. Vega (Paullinieae, Sapindaceae), de la Depresin del Ro Balsas en el estado de Guerrero, Mxico. Balsas se distingue de Paullinia L., por presentar cpsulas septfragas carnosas con alas proximales, dehiscencia que inicia proximalmente, semillas sin arilo y polen hemitrisincolporado. The genus Balsas J. Jimnez Ram. & K. Vega, with the new species B. guerrerensis Cruz Durn & K. Vega (Paullinieae, Sapindaceae), from the Rio Balsas Depression in the state of Guerrero, Mxico, is described. Both taxonomic entities are distinguished from Paullinia L. and its species by having fleshy septifragal capsules with proximal wings, dehiscence that initiates proximally, seeds without an aril, and hemitrisyncolporate pollen.
10.2307/3393511|Drabopsis nuda is transferred to Draba, and the two genera are united. The distinguishing characters separating these two genera and Arabidopsis are discussed.
10.2307/3392222|Carex communis and C. amplisquama can be distinguished based on achene micromorphology. However, similarity in macromorphology and flavonoid chemistry suggest they are best treated as two varieties of Carex communis. Carex rugosperma and C. tonsa are morphologically closely related and are best treated as two varieties of a single species. For reasons of nomenclatural priority, the new combination C. tonsa var. rugosperma is required. Carex tonsa also is lectotypified.
10.2307/3391490|New species of Ancistrothyrsus (Passifloraceae), Spathelia (Rutaceae), and Allophylus (Sapindaceae) from Amazonian Peru (and adjacent regions) are described and discussed. In addition, a new combination is made to elevate Allophylus pilosus to specific rank.
10.2307/3392099|Myrsine africana L. var. glandulosa J. M. Zhang is a new synonym of M. africana var. africana.
10.2307/3393518|Two new species of Primula from western China are described, illustrated, and compared with putatively related species. Both new species belong to section Petiolares subsect. Davidii (Balfour f.) Craib. which is characterized by the capsule crumbling irregularly at maturity, the basal buds always having a covering of paleaceous scales, and the leaves being more or less coriaceous, persisting into the following spring, with veins often prominently raised and alveolate abaxially and impressed adaxially. In this subsection there are about 18 species all distributed in Sichuan or Yunnan, with only one species extending to Guizhou, Hubei, Hunan, and Jiangxi.
10.2307/3391642|Rosa alexandrae Buzunova (sect. Synstylae DC.) is described. The new name R. uniflorella is proposed to replace the later homonym R. uniflora Yu & Ku.
10.2307/3393126|As a result of expeditions to the Gaoligong Mountains in western Yunnan, China, the authors discovered two new taxa. Maianthemum dulongense H. Li var. coriaceum R. Li & H. Li and M. fuscum (Wallich) LaFrankie var. cordatum R. Li & H. Li are described, and their differences from the type varieties are discussed.
10.2307/3391410|Four new tribes of Scrophulariaceae are described: Alonsoeae, Bowkerieae, Caprarieae, and Freylineae. The Globulariaceae are given new status as a tribe in the Scrophulariaceae.
23018439|Several morphotypes of simple inflorescences occurring in the genus Spiraea L. (Rosaceae), widely used for classification and determination, but not uniformly interpreted in the literature, are correctly defined. Taxonomically, S. compsophylla Hand.-Mazz. is synonymized with the imperfectly known S. calcicola W. W. Sm., whose amplified description and illustration are added. A newly distinguished species, hitherto confused with the former name, is described from Yunnan Province in China and illustrated as S. adiantoides Businsk, with its assignment to section Glomeratae Nakai. Two imperfectly known and confused species of Spiraea sect. Chamaedryon Ser. from Taiwan, S. tarokoensis Hayata and S. tatakaensis I. S. Chen, are carefully described, illustrated, and compared with six similar Chinese species. A new variety, S. lasiocarpa var. villosa Businsk, is described from western Sichuan Province, accepting the concept that S. lasiocarpa Kar. & Kir., described from today's eastern Kazakhstan and hitherto neglected in Chinese floras, is the correct name for the Chinese taxon S. mongolica Maxim. Two imperfectly known taxa from southwestern Sichuan, S. muliensis T. T. Yu & L. T. Lu and S. daochengensis L. T. Lu, were found to be conspecific after comparison of their respective holotypes and a newly found population; the former is accepted as the correct name. Spiraea sericea Turcz. is accepted only at the rank of the variety as S. media Schmidt var. sericea (Turcz.) Maxim. A key to the Chinese species of Spiraea with simple inflorescences is newly compiled, encompassing 40 species.
10.2307/3393063|Taxonomic innovations for the upcoming volume 23 of the Flora of North America (FNA) are here published. Eleocharis quinqueflora (F. X. Hartman) O. Schwarz, E. suksdorfiana Beauverd, and E. bernardina (Munz & I. M. Johnston) Munz & I. M. Johnston are redefined. New taxa described are: E. occulta S. G. Smith, segregated from E. acutisquamata Buckley; E. bifida S. G. Smith, segregated from E. compressa Sullivant; E. torticulmis S. G. Smith, segregated from E. suksdorfiana; and E. acicularis (L.) Roemer & Schultes var. porcata S. G. Smith, confused with E. wolfii (Gray) Gray. Other innovations are: E. elliptica Kunth var. atrata (Svenson) S. G. Smith, comb. nov.; E. compressa var. acutisquamata (Buckley) S. G. Smith, stat. nov.; E. palustris (L.) Roemer & Schultes var. vigens L. H. Bailey, lectotypified.
43289104|Eysenhardtia byei Cruz Durn & M. Sousa, a new species from the northwest of Mexico, is described and illustrated. This new taxon is similar to E. orthocarpa (A. Gray) S. Watson var. orthocarpa and E. polystachya (Ortega) Sarg., but differs in the leaflets having revolute margins and oblique to subcordate bases (vs. flat and obtuse to semicordate), the stipels being shorter than the petiolules (vs. equal or longer), and the petals being less than twice the length of the calyx (vs. double or more), and its restricted distribution in the zone of barrancas or canyons in the states of Chihuahua and Sonora (vs. an expanded distribution). Se describe e ilustra Eysenhardtia byei Cruz Durn & M. Sousa, una especie nueva restringida a la parte noroeste de Mxico. Este nuevo taxn es similar a E. orthocarpa (A. Gray) S. Watson var. orthocarpa y a E. polystachya (Ortega) Sarg., sin embargo, difiere de estas en que presenta fololos con mrgenes siempre revolutos y bases claramente oblicuas a subcordadas (vs. bases obtusas a ligeramente cordadas), las estipelas ms cortas que los pecilulos, los ptalos no son el doble o ms de la longitud del cliz (vs. el doble o ms), y por su distribucin en los estados de Chihuahua y Sonora, en zona de barrancas (vs. amplia distribucin).
10.2307/3392254|The new combinations Pfaffia aurata (Martius) Borsch, Pfaffia completa (Uline & W. L. Bray) Borsch, and Pfaffia costaricensis (Standley) Borsch are made. In analyzing the pollen morphology and floral structures of the three species, it is shown that they belong to Pfaffia Martius and not to Iresine P. Browne, nom. cons.
40856295|Alfaroa Standl. has five species with a total of 10 taxa ranging from southern Mexico to northern Colombia, although Costa Rica has the most (four), including the type species A. costaricensis Standl. A taxonomie treatment of the Juglandaceae for Flora Mesoamericana recognizes the new subspecies A. costaricensis subsp. septentrionalis D. E. Stone from Mexico and Guatemala as a northern variant. Review of A. guanacastensis D. E. Stone reduces the species to synonomy under A. manningii J. Len. The widespread southeastern Asian genus Alfaropsis Iljinsk. (= Engelhardia roxburghiana Wall.) is monotypic while possessing several morphological and molecular characters somewhat intermediate between New World Alfaroa and Oreomunnea Oerst., on the one hand, and Old World Engelhardia Lesch. ex Blume on the other. Although Alfaropsis was proposed in 1993, the generic name was not generally recognized until the phylogeny of extant and fossil Juglandaceae was examined by Manos et al. in 2007.
10.2307/3391658|En el estudio que J. Pensiero est realizando de las especies de Setaria P. Beauvois que crecen en Sudamrica, se hallaron materiales procedentes del centro de Argentina que se proponen como una nueva especie, Setaria alonsoi, la que se caracteriza por su follaje glauco, vainas con cuello piloso y espiguillas globosas. Esta especie se describe, ilustra y se la compara con las especies afines. /// In the course of the ongoing study by J. Pensiero of the species of Setaria P. Beauvois that grow in South America, material collected in the center of Argentina was found. A new species, Setaria alonsoi, is proposed based on these collections, characterized by its glaucous leaves, sheaths with pilous necks, and globose spikelets. The new species is described, illustrated, and compared with its relatives.
10.2307/3393240|Recent molecular and morphological studies suggest that neither Acleisanthes nor Selinocarpus (Nyctaginaceae) are monophyletic as currently circumscribed. Further, these data provide no basis for continued recognition of the monotypic genus Ammocodon as separate from these other two genera. Therefore, all 8 Selinocarpus species and the monospecific Ammocodon are transferred to Acleisanthes: 3 additional Selinocarpus species are reduced to synonymy. The genus Acleisanthes is now composed of 16 species, distributed primarily in the Chihuahuan Desert of North America. Diagnostic features of Acleisanthes include an herbaceous or woody perennial habit in arid environments, and the presence of both cleistogamous and chasmogamous flowers often simultaneously on an individual plant. Further, flowers are usually axillary and subtended by 1 to 4 subulate bracts, with chasmogamous flowers frequently white or yellow and funnelform to salverform.
40856275|Cyperus absconditicoronatus Bauters, Reynders & Goetgh. and G unispicatus Bauters, Reynders & Goetgh., two new species of Cyperus L. (Cyperaceae) from Angola and Zambia, are recognized. Cyperus absconditicoronatus is a tall species (55-100 cm) characterized by a scaled rhizome, a single terminal capitulum, a ciliated spikelet bract, and deciduous spikelets. Cyperus unispicatus can be recognized by a swollen and fibrous stem base growing from slender rhizomes, a single terminal spike, and short involucral bracts. The taxa are described and illustrated, and differences with the closest resembling species are discussed.
43288942|A new species, Lycoris hunanensis M. H. Quan, L. J. Ou & C. W. She (Amaryllidaceae), is described from Yuanling County in Hunan Province, China. Diagnostic morphological characters that distinguish it from the similar L. straminea Lindi, are presented. The clearest differences are that the perianth of L. hunanensis is pink in bud, lightly yellowish pink in early anthesis, and gradually fading to white later in development, with light red spots apically, while that of L. straminea is always ocheryellow. Lycoris hunanensis has longer scapes (5060 cm vs. ca. 35 cm long in L. straminea). The leaf apex of L. hunanensis is acuminate, which is quite different from the obtuse apex of L. straminea, and the leaf blade midveins are noticeably paler in L. straminea. The new species is assessed as Endangered (EN), according to IUCN criteria.
10.2307/3391733|Two new species of Clusiella, one from Costa Rica and Panama (C. isthmensis) and one from Brazil (C. impressinervis), are described, one old species from Colombia (C. cordifolia Cuatrecasas) is newly placed in synonymy, and all eight species in the genus are brought together in a key. A description of the genus and brief descriptions of the species are given, specimens are cited, and distributions are mapped for all species. In view of its stipuliform structures, contorted petals, psilate pollen exine, baccate fruits, exarillate seeds, and embryos with well-developed cotyledons, Clusiella's presumed close relationship to Clusia is challenged.
40300875|Sinoleontopodium lingianum Y. L. Chen (Asteraceae, Gnaphalieae), originally described from Xizang (Tibet), China, was not validly published in 1985 because two gatherings were designated as type. The name is validated here, with the specimen bearing female florets designated as holotype.
10.2307/3393056|Lectotypification of the name Thlaspi alliaceum L., with a Bauhin illustration from Historia plantarum, and T. montanum L., with a specimen from the LINN herbarium, is presented.
3393279| Five species of Neuontobotrys (Brassicaceae) are recognized, and a key to the species and typification of the genus are presented. A new species, N. elloanensis, is described and illustrated from Chile, and its distinguishing characters from nearest relatives are given. The new combinations N. linearifolia, N. deserticola, and N. robusta are proposed. /// Se reconocen cinco especies de Neuontobotrys (Brassicaceae) y se presenta una clave para las especies y la tipificacin del gnero. Se describe e ilustra una especie nueva de Chile, N. elloanensis, y se presentan los caracteres que la distinguen de sus parientes ms cercanos. Se proponen las siguientes combinaciones nuevas: N. linearifolia, N. deserticola y N. robusta. 
23018495|Aegiphila brenesii Hammel (nom. et comb. nov.) is validated to replace Clerodendrum costaricense Standl., the epithet of which is preoccupied in Aegiphila Jacq. (Lamiaceae) by A. costaricensis Moldenke. The species in question has been known until now from only the two rather inadequate collections cited in the protologue. We find that it was misplaced to genus and that recent collections had been overlooked and included in a broad concept of A. quararibeana Rueda, a similar species of lower elevations. Aegiphila brenesii Hammel (nom. et comb. nov.) se publica para reubicar Clerodendrum costaricense Standl., dado que su epiteto ya se usa en Aegiphila Jacq. (Lamiaceae) para A. costaricensis Moldenke. Hasta ahora, esta especie se haba conocido solamente de las dos recolecciones, bastantes inadecuadas, citadas en el protlogo. Encontramos que fue mal ubicada al gnero, y que recolecciones recientes haban pasado desapercebidas e incluidas en un concepto amplio de A. quararibeana Rueda, una especie parecida de elevaciones ms bajas.
10.2307/3391528|New names are proposed for two recently described species of Elaphoglossum whose epithets had already been used.
3393282|The new genus and species Shangrilaia nana (Brassicaceae) are described and illustrated, and their relationships to distinguishing characters from Braya and Baimashania are discussed.
23259350|A new species of Solanum L. belonging to subgenus Leptostemonum (Dunal) Bitter section Acanthophora Dunal (Solanaceae) is described and illustrated from the Distrito Federal in central Brazil. Solanum savannarum Ribeiro-Silva & Proena is a small, spindly herb or subshrub with spiny stems and petioles, weakly lobed leaves, pentamerous or tetramerous nodding white flowers with revolute sepals and petals, green attenuate anthers, pale green fruits mottled with dark green, each with ca. 11 seeds. The species is apparently endemic to highland savanna woodlands (cerrado) in the Brazilian states of the Distrito Federal, Gois, and western Minas Gerais. Uma nova espcie de Solanum L., pertencente ao subgnero Leptostemonum (Dunal) Bitter seo Acanthophora Dunal (Solanaceae)  descrita e ilustrada. Solanum savannarum Ribeiro-Silva & Proena  uma pequena erva ou subarbusto com ramos e pecolos aculeados, folhas fracamente lobadas, flores pentmeras ou tetrmeras, pndulas, brancas, com spalas e ptalas revolutas, anteras verdes, atenuadas, e frutos verde plidos manchados de verde escuro com ca. 11 sementes. A espcie  aparentemente endmica a cerrados de altitude do Distrito Federal, Gois e oeste de Minas Gerais no Brasil Central.
10.2307/3393065|Five new species are described (R. angustipaniculata, R. ayangannensis, R. bakhuisensis, R. donselaarii, and R. rupicola) and a new name proposed (R. pubisquama) in Rhynchospora Vahl nom. cons. from northeastern South America (Guianas). Illustrations are provided for the new species, their classification is determined, and a discussion of related species is given for each.
10.2307/3391908|This paper describes and illustrates three new taxa of Fuchsia from Central America and Mexico. Fuchsia paniculata subsp. mixensis P. E. Berry & Breedlove is newly described in section Schufia; it is from a small area in central Oaxaca, Mexico, that is a geographical transition area between F. arborescens and F. paniculata. The new subspecies is distinguished by its large pubescent leaves and flowers. Because it has both hermaphrodite and female individuals, it is placed with the gynodioecious F. paniculata rather than the exclusively hermaphrodite F. arborescens. In section Encliandra, Fuchsia encliandra subsp. microphylloides P. E. Berry & Breedlove is newly described from material that was previously included in F. encliandra subsp. encliandra, but differs in its more divaricating branching pattern and more serrulate leaves. Fuchsia microphylla subsp. chiapensis (Brandegee) P. E. Berry & Breedlove, stat. nov., is created to recognize populations that were most recently treated as part of F. microphylla subsp. aprica. This taxon differs from subspecies aprica in its larger leaves, more pubescent stems and leaves, and lower elevational range.
10.2307/3393006|The new species Simira gardneriana M. R. Barbosa & A. L. Peixoto from northeastern Brazil is described. This is the first species of Simira found in the "caatinga" vegetation.
23018445|Hoya jianfenglingensis Shao Y. He & P. T. Li (Apocynaceae) is described as a new species from Hainan, China. The morphological characters of H. jianfenglingensis are illustrated and compared with the related species, H. fungii Merr. and H. carnosa (L. f.) R. Br. Hoya jianfenglingensis differs in its leaf indumentum, the prominent lateral veins in six to 10 pairs, the evident glands at the corona base, and the smaller corolla (only to 1.5 cm diam.). Hoya jianfenglingensis is assigned to section Hoya within the genus on the basis of the acute outer angle of the corona lobes.
10.2307/3391518|Paspalum longiaristatum of subgenus Ceresia is described and illustrated. It is the first known awned species in the genus and the first known annual species in the subgenus.
40856281|This work is a part of a taxonomic revision of the Neotropical genus Hortia Vand. (Rutaceae), where three names colombiana Gleason, H. chocoensis Cuatrec, and badinii M. Lisboa ex Groppo) are proposed as synonyms of here validated. Additionally, another name in the Rutaceae, Dictyoloma peruvianum Planch., is proposed as a synonym of D. vandellianum A. Juss. Notes on the type collection of D. vandellianum are provided. Este trabalho  parte de uma reviso taxonmica do gnero neotropical Hortia Vand. (Rutaceae), onde trs binmios colombiana Gleason, H. chocoensis Cuatrec. e badinii M. Lisboa ex Groppo) so propostos como sinnimos de H. brasiliana Vand. ex DC., com a validao do nome badinii. Adicionalmente, um nome na mesma famlia Rutaceae, Dictyoloma peruvianum Planch.,  proposto como sinnimo de D. vandellianum A. Juss. So tambm fornecidas notas sobre a coleo-tipo de D. vandellianum.
40300893|In 1973, Verdcourt made the combination in Myriophyllum L.: M. aquaticum (Vellozo) Verdcourt based on Enydria aquatica Vellozo in the Haloragaceae. However, significant morphological differences exist between the study of the Vellozo 1825 protologue and the Vellozo 1831 plate of E. aquatica. Therefore, we propose the designation of an epitype to better fix the taxonomic application of the name M. aquaticum (Vellozo) Verdcourt /// En 1973, Verdcourt realiz una nueva combinacin en Myriophyllum L: M. aquaticum (Vellozo) Verdcourt basndose en Enydria aquatica Vellozo. A travs del estudio de la descripcin original (1825) y lmina (1831) de E. aquatica, encontramos que los caracteres diagnsticos son diferentes. Por lo tanto en el presente trabajo se propone designar un epitipo para M. aquaticum (Vellozo) Verdcourt para la mejor aplicacin del nombre.
3393360| Seven species of Ocotea, collected during fieldwork in the drainage of the Ro Cenepa in northern Peru, are described. They will be included in the forthcoming Flora del Ro Cenepa. The new species are: Ocotea badia van der Werff, Ocotea hirtandra van der Werff, Ocotea imazensis van der Werff, Ocotea laevifolia van der Werff, Ocotea lenitae van der Werff, Ocotea leptophylla van der Werff, and Ocotea vasquezii van der Werff. 
41811669|A new species of Pelexia Poit. ex Lindl. (Orchidaceae, Spiranthinae) occurring in central So Paulo, southeastern Brazil, is described and illustrated as P. vinosa A. W. C. Ferreira, M. I. S. Lima & Pansarin. Pelexia vinosa is recognized by its leaves that are present at flowering and its dark purple leaf blades with reddish margins. Inflorescences are sparsely pubescent and reddish. The red sepals contrast with the white hyaline petals and labellum. The species is notable for its spurlike nectary that is parallel and adnate to the ovary. The new species is morphologically similar to P. laxa (Poepp. & Endl.) Lindl. In addition, the need to preserve native areas of the interior of So Paulo State (habitat of P. vinosa) is discussed. Uma nova espcie de Pelexia Poit. ex Lindl. (Orchidaceae, Spiranthinae) que ocorre na regio central do estado de So Paulo,  descrita e ilustrada como P. vinosa A. W. C. Ferreira, M. I. S. Lima & Pansarin. Pelexia vinosa  reconhecida pelas folhas que esto sempre presentes durante o perodo de florao, e pelas lminas foliares roxo-escuras com margens avermelhadas. As inflorescncias so avermelhadas e esparsamente pubescentes. As ptalas avermelhadas contrastam com as ptalas e labelo, que so brancos, e pelo nectrio paralelamente disposto e adnato ao ovrio. Essa nova espcie  morfologicamente semelhante  P. laxa (Poepp. & Endl.) Lindl. A necessidade de conservao de reas nativas no interior do estado de So Paulo (hbitat de P. vinosa), tambm  discutida.
10.2307/3391874|Lobelia brasiliensis, a new species of subsection Haynaldianae F. E. Wimmer (of Lobelia L. sect. Rhynchopetalum), is described from Brazil. It is distinguished from related Brazilian species by its yellowish puberulous abaxial leaf surface and the smaller dimensions of its floral structures. This species also has a different flowering period and is isolated geographically.
20406106|A new species, Baccharis coronata Giuliano, from Santa Catarina, Brazil, is described and illustrated. This species, belonging to section Oblongifoliae, is distinguished by its axillary compound corymbs crowned by the upper leaves. /// Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie, Baccharis coronata Giuliano, de Santa Catarina, Brasil. Esta especie, perteneciente a la seccin Oblongifoliae, se distingue por sus corimbos compuestos axilares coronados por las hojas superiores.
10.2307/3391661|Two new species are described: Scleria skutchii M. T. Strong & J. R. Grant, a scrambling, vinelike, branching, high-climbing sedge with sharp, spinulose leaf margins, pendulous inflorescences of purple spikelets, a long-stipitate hypogynium, and achenes with a curved apex, from Costa Rica and northwestern Colombia, related to S. macbrideana Gross; and Scleria triquetra M. T. Strong, an erect to ascending sedge that has trigonous achenes bearing tubercles with tufts of trichomes on the angles, from northeastern South America, related to S. huberi C. B. Clarke. A key to the scandent species of Scleria sect. Scleria in Central America and northwestern Colombia is provided, and an illustration, SEM photograph of the mature achene, and comparison to similar taxa are given for each species.
20406117|Two new species of Bauhinia L. (Fabaceae, Caesalpinioideae, Cercideae) are described and illustrated: B. miriamae R. Torres endemic to Oaxaca, and B. wunderlinii R. Torres from Mxico, Belize, and Honduras. Similarities to and differences from B. divaricata L. are discussed for both species; all three belong to section Bauhinia. With these novelties, Bauhinia sect. Bauhinia comprises approximately 20 species and is most diverse in Mexico, where there are 19 native and 14 endemic species. /// Se describen e ilustran dos especies de Bauhinia (Fabaceae, Caesalpinioideae, Cercideae): B. miriamae R. Torres endmica de Oaxaca y B. wunderlinii R. Torres de Mxico, Belice y Honduras. Se discuten similaridades y diferencias morfolgicas de ambas especies con B. divaricata L., considerando a las tres en la seccin Bauhinia. Con estas novedades, Bauhinia sect. Bauhinia contiene aproximadamente 20 especies, siendo Mxico un centro de diversidad importante para este grupo con 19 especies nativas, de las cuales 14 son endmicas a este pas.
40856313|Se describe e ilustra Hydrocotyle apolobambensis M. Mend. & A. Fuentes (Apiaceae), una nueva especie de hojas trifolioladas, restringida a la cordillera de Apolobamba, en la cuesta oriental del noroeste de Bolivia. La especie es similar H. palmata Mathias con la que comparte su rea distribucin natural, pero difiere de ella por tener un menor nmero de flores, pedicelos pubescentes, lbulos de las hojas redondeados a obtusos y el indumento piloso. Se adiciona una clave y una tabla comparativa para distinguirla de otras especies trifolioladas de Hydrocotyle L. de Amrica del Sur. Hydrocotyle apolobambensis M. Mend. & A. Fuentes (Apiaceae), a new species with trifoliolate leaves restricted to the eastern slopes of the Apolobamba mountain range in northwestern Bolivia, is described and illustrated. The species is similar to H. palmata Mathias, with which it shares sympatric distribution, but differs by having fewer flowers per umbel, pubescent pedicels, rounded to obtuse leaf lobes, and pilose indumentum. A key and a comparative table to distinguish the new species from other trifoliolate Hydrocotyle L. species of South America are included.
43289110|A new name is proposed for Mayna parvifolia (J. F. Macbr.) Sleumer [ Carpotroche parvifolia J. F. Macbr.]; the species belongs in Caseoria Jacq. (Salicaceae). However, the basionym name Caseoria parvifolia Tul. has already been used twice by both Willdenow and Tulasne, and we therefore establish Casearia maynacarpa Liesner & P. Jrgensen as a replacement name.
3393357| A new species in Microlicia (Melastomataceae) is described and illustrated. Microlicia tenuifolia is known from the rocky slopes of Diamantina, Minas Gerais state, an important center of endemism for Melastomataceae species. It resembles morphologically M. isophylla DC., but it can be distinguished by the smaller leaves and pedicels and calyx lobes with an acute non-apiculate apex. /// Uma nova espcie de Microlicia (Melastomataceae)  descrita e ilustrada. Microlicia tenuifolia ocorre nos campos rupestres dos arredores de Diamantina, no estado de Minas Gerais, um importante centro de endemismo para espcies de Melastomataceae. Assemelha-se morfologicamente a M. isophylla DC., mas pode ser distinta pelas folhas e pedicelos menores e lacnias do clice com pice agudo, no apiculado. 
40856327|Se describe e ilustra una especie nueva, Meriania hrrida C. Ulloa & Ach (Melastomataceae), del departamento de La Paz, Bolivia. Esta especie se caracteriza por tener los tallos, pecolos y ejes de las inflorescencias cubiertos por un indumento denso de conspicuos tricomas speros dendrticos; el ovario tiene lbulos apicales carnosos y coloridos. Algunas hojas presentan acarodomacios basilaminares. Slo se conoce de los bosques yungueos en los Andes bolivianos. A new species, Meriania hrrida C. Ulloa & Ach (Melastomataceae), from the department of La Paz, Bolivia, is described and illustrated. This species is characterized by the stems, petioles, and axes of the inflorescences covered by a dense indumentum consisting of bristly dendritic trichomes, and by the ovary that presents apical fleshy colorful lobes. Some leaves present acarodomatia at the base of the blades.It is only known from the Yungas forests in the Bolivian Andes.
10.2307/3392963|Weinmannia auriformis is described and illustrated from the Cordillera del Cndor region, Ecuador. It is distinguished by its small, auriform, revolute, entire-margined leaflets and by the dense tomentose pubescence on its branchlets, leaves, stipules, inflorescences, and calyx lobes. This new endemic species is only known from one sandstone mountain of the Cordillera de Huaracayo, east of the Cordillera del Cndor. /// Se describe y se ilustra Weinmannia auriformis de la regin de la Cordillera de Cndor, Ecuador. Esta especie se distingue por sus fololos pequeos que se asemejan a unas orejas con mrgenes enteros y un hirsuto denso, pubescente, en sus ramas pequeas, sus hojas, sus estpulas, sus inflorescencias y los lbulos del cliz. Esta nueva especie se encuentra en un cerro formado por roca arenisca en la Cordillera de Huaracayo al este de la Cordillera del Cndor.
10.2307/3391397|Xylopia panamensis sp. nov. is proposed based on material from Santa Rita Ridge and El Llano-Cart road formerly referred to Xylopia bocatorena Schery. The new species differs from X. bocatorena by its rounded leaf base, longer indument on the bracts and calyx, smaller flowers, fewer seeds per monocarp, and thus shorter monocarps.
10.2307/3391701|New combinations in the Heterotheca villosa complex were deemed necessary for a pending revision of Heterotheca sect. Phyllotheca. Based on extensive fieldwork and examination of a large number of herbarium collections, the following new combinations are proposed: Heterotheca stenophylla var. angustifolia, H. villosa var. ballardii, H. villosa var. depressa, H. villosa var. horrida, H. villosa var. minor, and H. villosa var. nana.
20406158|Recent studies show that the genus Cucumis L. in its current sense is paraphyletic, with Cucumella Chiovenda, Dicaelospermum C. B. Clarke, Mukia Arnott, Myrmecosicyos C. Jeffrey, and Oreosyce Hooker f. nested within it. A proposal to expand Cucumis to include these nested genera has therefore been made. In this paper the nomenclatural changes that are needed to accommodate the currently recognized taxa of the nested genera in Cucumis are made. The following new combinations and new names are proposed: Cucumis aetheocarpus (C. Jeffrey) Ghebretinsae & Thulin, C. bryoniifolius (Merxmller) Ghebretinsae & Thulin, C. cinereus (Cogniaux) Ghebretinsae & Thulin, C. clavipetiolatus (J. H. Kirkbride) Ghebretinsae & Thulin, C. engleri (Gilg) Ghebretinsae & Thulin, C. gracilis (W. S. Kurz) Ghebretinsae & Thulin, the new name C. indicus Ghebretinsae & Thulin, C. javanicus (Miquel) Ghebretinsae & Thulin, C. kelleri (Cogniaux) Ghebretinsae & Thulin, the new name C. kirkbridei Ghebretinsae & Thulin, C. leiospermus (Wight & Arnott) Ghebretinsae & Thulin, C. messorius (C. Jeffrey) Ghebretinsae & Thulin, C. reticulatus (A. Fernandes & R. Fernandes) Ghebretinsae & Thulin, C. ritchiei (C. B. Clarke) Ghebretinsae & Thulin, and C. silentvalleyi (Manilal, T. Sabu & P. J. Mathew) Ghebretinsae & Thulin. Key words: Cucumella, Cucumis, Cucurbitaceae, Dicaelospermum, Mukia, Myrmecosicyos, Oreosyce.
10.2307/3393561| Casearia guevarana, a new species of Flacourtiaceae from the coastal dunes of the Natural Reserve "El Morro de la Mancha," from the states of Veracruz and Tabasco, Mexico, is described and illustrated. Its affinities with the closely related species C. aculeata Jacquin and C. obovata Schlechtendal are discussed. This new species differs from its congeners by having broadly obtuse leaf apices, large, six-channeled fruits, and larger, more numerous seeds. /// Se describe como nueva a Casearia guevarana (Flacourtiaceae) de las dunas costeras de la Reserva Natural El Morro de La Mancha, Veracruz y Tabasco, Mxico. Esta nueva especie est cercanamente relacionada con Casearia aculeata Jacquin y C. obovata Schlechtendal, de las que se distingue por presentar el pice de las hojas ampliamente obtuso, frutos 6-acanalados y de mayor tamao, con semillas ms grandes y ms numerosas. 
10.2307/3393158|The Lupinus gibertianus-L. linearis complex was evaluated using nomenclature reviews, studies of all type material, and multivariate analysis. The results support the recognition of L. linearis Desrousseaux and three varieties of L. gibertianus C. P. Smith. The new combinations L. gibertianus var. reineckianus Planchuelo & E. Fuentes and L. gibertianus var. berroanus Planchuelo & E. Fuentes are made. Taxonomic keys, descriptions, illustrations, and synonymy are included, and representative specimens are listed. /// Se evala taxonmicamente el complejo Lupinus gibertianus-L. linearis realizando una revisin nomenclatural, un estudio de materiales tipos y una evaluacin de caracteres morfolgicos mediante tcnicas de anlisis multivariado. Los resultados soportan el reconocimiento de L. linearis Desrousseaux y tres variedades de L. gibertianus C. P. Smith. Se dan a conocer las nuevas combinaciones L. gibertianus var. reineckianus Planchuelo & E. Fuentes y L. gibertianus var. berroanus Planchuelo & E. Fuentes. El trabajo se completa con una clave identificatoria, descripciones, sinonimias, ilustraciones y lista de especmenes representativos de los taxa tratados.
10.2307/3391792|A new monotypic genus of Asteraceae-Senecioneae, Caxamarca, is described from northern Peru. The single herbaceous perennial species, Caxamarca sanchezii M. O. Dillon & Sagstegui, is endemic to the seasonally dry valleys of southwestern Cajamarca. The potential relationships of the genus are discussed. /// Un gnero monotpico nuevo de Asteraceae-Senecioneae, Caxamarca se describe para el norte de Per. La nica especie, la herbcea perenne, Caxamarca sanchezii M. O. Dillon et Sagstegui, es endmica de los valles estacionalmente secos del suroeste del Departamento de Cajamarca. Se discuten las relaciones potenciales del gnero.
10.2307/3392005|Bulbophyllum involutum, a new orchid species from the "campos rupestres" of Brazil, is described and illustrated, with notes about the biology of the species. It is also compared with B. warmingianum, B. ipanemense, and B. longispicatum.
10.2307/3392009|Ditassa oberdanii, a new species of Asclepiadaceae from remnant patches of Atlantic rainforest in Esprito Santo state, southeastern Brazil, is described, illustrated, and compared to D. oxyphylla Turczaninow, a similar species that is found in Brazil, Colombia, and Venezuela.
10.2307/3391769|Three species are described as new, viz., Passiflora trochlearis, P. smilacifolia, and P. luzmarina. Ten species are reported as new for the country, viz., Ancistrothyrsus hirtellus, P. tessmannii, P. putumayensis, P. pittieri, P. viridescens, P. biflora, P. candollei, P. glaberrima, P. caerulea, and P. aff. kermesina. Five species are mentioned that appeared in the literature since the publication of the Passifloraceae in the Flora of Ecuador as either new taxa or as extensions of distribution into Ecuador, viz., P. morifolia, P. brachyantha, P. linda, P. jatunsachensis, and P. chrysosepala. Three taxa had misapplied names in the flora; these misunderstandings are rectified. The total number of genera and species in Ecuador is 3 and 92, respectively, an increase of 15 taxa, or 20% in less than 10 years. /// Se describen Passiflora trochlearis, P. smilacifolia y P. luzmarina como nuevas. Las diez especies siguientes son, por primera vez, reportadas para el Ecuador: Ancistrothyrsus hirtellus, P. tessmannii, P putumayensis, P. pittieri, P. viridescens, P. biflora, P. candollei, P. glaberrima, P. caerulea y P. aff. kermesina. Las cinco especies siguientes han sido reportadas en la bibliografa desde la publicacin de la "Flora of Ecuador": Passiflora morifolia, P. brachyantha, P. linda, P. jatunsachensis y P. chrysosepala. Tres taxones fueron tratados bajo nombres equivocados en la Flora; estas equivocaciones se rectifican aqu. El nmero total de gneros y especies en el Ecuador son 3 y 92 respectivamente, sto significa un incremento de 15 taxones, o del 20% en menos de 10 aos.
40856317|A synopsis of the American genus Acanthocladus Klotzsch ex Hassk. (Polygalaceae), based primarily on herbarium studies, is presented, along with an identification key to the currently accepted eight species. Two new synonyms and the following new combinations are presented: A. dukei (Barringer) J. F. B. Pastore & D. B. 0. S. Cardoso, A.pulcherrimus (Kuhlm.) J. F. B. Pastore & D. B. 0. S. Cardoso, and A. santosii (Wurdack) J. F. B. Pastore & D. B. 0. S. Cardoso. The names A. brasiliensis Klotzsch ex Hassk. and A. pulcherrimus are lectotypified. A partir do estudo das colees de herbario, uma sinopse de Acanthocladus Klotzsch ex Hassk. (Polygalaceae)  apresentada, incluindo chave de identificaao para as oito especies aceitas. Foram feitas tambm duas novas sinonimizaes e as seguintes novas combinaes: A. dukei (Barringer) J.F. B. Pastore & D. B. 0. S. Cardoso, A. pulcherrimus (Kuhlm.) J. F. B. Pastore & D. B. 0. S. Cardoso e A.santosii (Wurdack) J. F. B. Pastore & D. B. 0. S.Cardoso. Alm disso, os nomes A. brasiliensis Klotzsch ex Hassk. e A. pulcherrimus foram lectotipificados.
10.2307/3392082|The authorship of Krascheninnikovia arborescens should be attributed to Sergei K. Czerepanov, not Sergei L. Mosyakin.
10.2307/3391458|New nomenclatural combinations are needed for some of the North American species of Asarum to bring their names in line with the current understanding of relationships in the genus and to provide correct names for a treatment in the Flora of North America.
10.2307/3391893|A new combination, Bromus catharticus var. rupestris, is made. Based on morphological evidence this taxon seems best recognized at the varietal level. Detailed illustrations of B. catharticus var. rupestris and B. catharticus var. catharticus are included along with morphological descriptions, distributions, and representative specimens. /// Se realiza una nueva combinacin, Bromus catharticus var. rupestris. Sobre la base de las evidencias morfolgicas, parece mejor reconocer este taxon a nivel de variedad. Se incluyen illustraciones detalladas de B. catharticus var. rupestris y B. catharticus var. catharticus junto con descripciones morfolgicas, distribuciones y especmenes representativos.
3393397|A total of 16 taxa (15 species and 1 variety) of Araceae are new to science. These include Anthurium acebeyae Croat, A. beckii Croat & Acebey, A. besseae Croat, A. kunthii Poeppig var. cylindricum Croat, A. ottobuchtienii Croat & Acebey, A. stephanii Croat & Acebey, A. yungasense Croat & Acebey, Dieffenbachia williamsii Croat, Monstera kessleri Croat, Philodendron cotapatense Croat & Acebey, P. kroemeri Croat, Rhodospatha mukuntakia Croat, Stenospermation dictyoneurum Croat & Acebey, S. killipii Croat & A. Gomez, Xanthosoma puberulum Croat, and X. seidelii Croat. /// Un total de 16 taxones (15 especies y 1 variedades) de Araceae son nuevas para la ciencia. Estas incluyen Anthurium acebeyae Croat, A. beckii Croat & Acebey, A. besseae Croat, A. kunthii Poeppig var. cylindricum Croat, A. ottobuchtienii Croat & Acebey, A. stephanii Croat & Acebey, A. yungasense Croat & Acebey, Dieffenbachia williamsii Croat, Monstera kessleri Croat, Philodendron cotapatense Croat & Acebey, P. kroemeri Croat, Rhodospatha mukuntakia Croat, Stenospermation dictyoneurum Croat & Acebey, S. killipii Croat & A. Gomez, Xanthosoma puberulum Croat, and X. seidelii Croat.
20406212|One wild banana species, Musa yunnanensis Hkkinen & Wang Hong, and one variety of Musa L., M. acuminata Colla var. chinensis Hkkinen & Wang Hong, from Yunnan, China, are newly described and illustrated. These studies are based on observed morphological characteristics in the field and from specimens in various herbaria, and are supported by the existing literature on the Musaceae. A key to Musa yunnanensis and related taxa is provided.
3393541|Fordiophyton faberi Stapf is selected as the type of Fordiophyton Stapf (Melastomataceae), which has not been typified before. Based on the characters of eight dimorphic and unequal stamens with the anther connectives not calcarate at the base, Stapfiophyton Li is recognized as a synonym of Fordiophyton Stapf. This results in two new combinations, Fordiophyton degeneratum (C. Chen) Y. F. Deng & T. L. Wu and F. breviscapum (C. Chen) Y. F. Deng & T. L. Wu.
3393437|Taxonomic modifications are made within Styrax series Valvatae (Styracaceae) in South America. Styrax chrysocalyx, S. griseus, S. nunezii, and S. trichostemon are described as new and illustrated. Styrax guaiquinimae (based on S. tepuiensis subsp. guaiquinimae), S. neblinae (based on S. duidae subsp. neblinae), S. rotundatus (based on S. martii var. rotundatus), and S. yutajensis (based on S. guanayanus var. yutajensis) are recognized at the species level. Lectotypes are selected for S. martii and S. martii var. rotundatus. The discovery of S. trichostemon supports the sistergroup relationship between the gynodioecious clade and the rest of S. series Valvatae as inferred from a previously published molecular phylogenetic analysis.
10.2307/3391865|A new species of Disa, the largest genus of terrestrial orchids in southern Africa, is described from the Western Cape. Disa virginalis, sp. nov., was previously included in D. maculata, but is white rather than blue, with shorter and broader lateral sepals, and a less developed spur. In addition, the galea is narrowed in front. Similarities to D. schizodioides are also discussed; these indicate that the current sectional classification of subgenus Disa may not be correct.
23259420|The name Talinum parvulum Rose & Standl. is transferred to Phemeranthus Raf. (Montiaceae) as P. parvulus (Rose & Standl.) D. J. Ferguson & T. M. Price. Described in 1911 from Durango, Mexico, this species closely resembles P. marginatus (Greene) Kiger [ T. marginatum Greene], which was described in 1912 from Nayarit. Phemeranthus marginatus is here treated as a taxonomic synonym of P. parvulus.
27765227|Zornia grandiflora Fort.-Perez & A. M. G. Azevedo (Leguminosae, Papilionoideae), a new species from Bahia and Pernambuco states in northeastern Brazil, is described and illustrated. The new species is assigned to section Anisophylla Mohlenbr. of subgenus Zornia J. F. Gmel. Zornia grandiflora is similar to Z. sericea Moric, sharing erect stems and ovate to elliptic bracteoles. It can be distinguished from Z. sericea and from other species within Zornia sect. Anisophylla by the large standard (1317 mm long). Zornia grandiflora Fort.-Perez & A. M. G. Azevedo (Leguminosae, Papilionoideae), uma nova espcie do nordeste do Brasil (estados da Bahia e Pernambuco),  descrita e ilustrada. Esta nova espcie pertence  seo Anisophylla Mohlenbr. do subgnero Zornia J. F. Gmel. Zornia grandiflora possui afinidades com Z. sericea Moric, compartilhando osramos eretos e as bractolas ovais a elpticas; e pode ser separada desta e das outras espcies de Zornia sect. Anisophylla pelo expressivo tamanho do estandarte (1317 mm comprimento).
10.2307/3393250|Swartzia mexicana, a new legume species from the State of Oaxaca, Mexico, is described and illustrated. It is presently known only from the districts of Ixtln and Tuxtepec. The new species belongs to section Swartzia, subsection Swartzia, and is assigned to series Tounateae. Within that series, it is closely related to S. sumorum by the leaflets not prominently reticulate, the style uncinate, and the stigma truncate, as well as by the legume elliptic in shape. A key to distinguish the new species from S. sumorum and S. wurdackii is provided. /// Se describe e ilustra Swartzia mexicana, una especie de leguminosas nueva para la ciencia, del estado de Oaxaca, Mxico. Hasta ahora se conoce slo de los distritos de Ixtln y Tuxtepec. La especie nueva corresponde a la sect. Swartzia, subsect. Swartzia y se incluye en la serie Tounateae. Dentro de esa serie, se relaciona estrechamente con S. sumorum por los foliolos sin nervacin reticulada prominente, el estilo uncinado y el estigma truncado, as como por la legumbre de forma elptica. Se presenta una clave para distinguir a la especie nueva de S. sumorum y de S. wurdackii.
10.2307/3391750|Stenogyne sherffii O. Degener from the Ko'olau Mountains, O'ahu, Hawaiian Islands, was treated as synonymous with the more common species from the Wai'anae Mountains, S. kaalae Wawra, in the most recent revision of the genus by Weller and Sakai in 1990. A single population of about five plants of this entity was rediscovered in 1994. A plant was propagated from a stem cutting in the greenhouse at the University of California, Irvine. Comparison to plants of S. kaalae grown in the same greenhouse and herbarium material shows that the rare Ko'olau plants are distinct in several characters, especially subentire vs. serrate leaves. We here recognize this taxon as a subspecies of S. kaalae because of the clear species synapomorphy of very dark maroon corolla color and the geographical separation of the two taxa.
10.2307/3393020|The new species Palicourea australis C. M. Taylor is described and illustrated. This new species is distinguished from P. marcgravii A. St.Hilaire by its shorter corollas with dense external pubescence that is confined to the tube and corolla lobes with appendages or pronounced thickenings.
10.2307/3391420|During studies of Capparaceae carried out for the Flora of Ethiopia, the following new taxa in Maerua were discovered.
10.2307/3393190|Thelypteris semirii, known only from Minas Gerais, Brazil, is described and illustrated. The new species belongs to Thelypteris subg. Goniopteris, due to the indument of furcate and stellate trichomes on scales, petioles, rachises, and costae. It is most closely related to T. scabra (C. Presl) Lellinger (from Argentina, Paraguay, and southeastern Brazil) because of pinna shape, disposition of indument, prominent sinuses, and unbranched trichomes on sporangial stalks. It differs by having trichomes golden or orange, stipitate, and glandular, on both surfaces of all pinnae and indusia. Stems are erect and buds are lacking in the axils of distal pinnae.
10.2307/3393094|A new species of Oxytropis (Leguminosae) from Xizang (Tibet) in China, O. qamdoensis X. Y. Zhu, Y. F. Du & H. Ohashi, is described and illustrated. The new species is very similar to O. ochrantha (sect. Baicalia Steller ex Bunge) and shares with it verticillate and opposite leaflets and glandular hairs, but differs in having leaflets with 9-11 whorls per leaf, the standard bilobed at the apex, wings emarginate at the apex, the beak of the keel-petals 1.0-1.5 mm long, and pods with white-tinged hairs.
10.2307/3392180|Sonerila is a genus of ca. 100-175 species distributed from Sri Lanka and southern India to the Indo-Pacific region. It is the only trimerous genus (except for the monotypic Stussenia C. Hansen and Lithobium Bongard) in the Melastomataceae, with the flowers having one or rarely two whorls of stamens. Sonerila nagyana, described and illustrated here, has one staminal whorl and is unusual in its rosette habit with succulent and lanceolate leaves. It was discovered in heath forest in the Upper Barito Ulu region in Central Kalimantan, Borneo.
20406311|Se describe e ilustra Prockia oaxacana J. Jimnez Ramrez & Cruz Durn (Salicaceae), una especie nueva de la regin mixteca del estado de Oaxaca, Mxico. Es similar a P. krusei J. Jimnez Ramrez & Cruz Durn, pero difiere de sta por ser una planta poligamodioica, tener corteza exfoliante, estpulas con varias glndulas marginales, flores con ptalos, ovario unilocular, placentacin parietal y adems spalos del fruto, baya y semillas ms pequeos. Tambin se presenta una clave dicotmica para determinar la especie nueva. /// Prockia oaxacana J. Jimnez Ramrez & Cruz Durn (Salicaceae), a new species from the Mixtec region in the state of Oaxaca, Mexico, is described and illustrated. It appears similar to P. krusei J. Jimnez Ramrez & Cruz Durn, but differs in being a polygamodioecious plant with exfoliating bark, stipules with marginal glands, flowers with petals, unilocular ovary, parietal placentation, and smaller sepals, berry, and seeds. A dichotomous key to distinguish this new species of Prockia P. Browne ex L. is also included.
10.2307/3391764|Aristea fimbriata, A. inaequalis, and A. rupicola are new to this genus of some 52 species of sub-Saharan Africa and Madagascar. The new species all occur in the western part of the southern African winter-rainfall climatic zone and are highly local endemics, two of them known only from single extended populations. All three species have three-winged capsules, a specialized condition that defines subgenus Aristea, a taxon virtually restricted to the southern African winter-rainfall zone. In addition the new species have pollen grains with apertures confined to one face of the grain, either monosulcate or trichotomosulcate, and have specialized, undivided styles that define section Racemosae, one of two sections of subgenus Aristea. Observations on the pollination biology of A. inaequalis show that it is probably pollinated by female Anthophora diversipes (Anthophoridae) bees, which forage for pollen on the flowers of this species. This pollination strategy conforms to that of other blue-flowered species of the genus, that is, they have flowers adapted for pollination by various species of female bees foraging for pollen. A revised key to section Racemosae is presented, which includes entries for apparently undescribed taxa that require further investigation.
40300910|A new species, Pseudostellaria polymor pha Y. S. Lian (Caryophyllaceae), is described from Gansu Province, China. The species is remarkable for the regular variation in its floral morphology from stem apex to base. The terminal chasmogamous flower is largest, having five oval-lanceolate sepals, five oblanceolate petals noticeably longer than the sepals, 10 stamens, and an ovary with two long filamentous styles. The flowers along the upper portions of the stems have four sepals, only two or three petals equal or slightly shorter than the sepals, six to eight stamens including one or two sterile ones, and an ovary with two filamentous, shorter styles. The cleistogamous flowers are solitary in the axils of the basal portion of the stem, with four densely pilose sepals, three petals obviously shorter than the sepals or reduced, two sterile stamens, and an ovary with two styles obviously shorter than the ovary itself. This floral transition is rare in Pseudostellaria Pax, and is therefore a feature by which the new species is easily distinguishable from other members of the genus.
20406258|During preparation of the account of Bolbitidaceae for the Flora of China, it was noticed that specimens of Bolbitis Schott, collected from Hainan Island, China, differed from other known species in Bolbitidaceae. This species, Bolbitis changjiangensis F. G. Wang & F. W. Xing, is herein described and illustrated as new. Its affinities and differences with the related species are discussed. This new species differs from its congeners by having a short erect rhizome; lateral pinnae in two to four pairs, without spines in the sinuses; and dimorphic fertile leaves. SEM observation of the spores of the new species and B. subcordata (Copeland) Ching shows distinct difference in spore morphology.
20406190|Gastrodia wuyishanensis Da M. Li & C. D. Liu (Orchidaceae) from Wuyishan National Nature Reserve in Fujian, China, is described and illustrated. This new species is similar in habit to G. menghaiensis Z. H. Tsi & S. C. Chen, from which it differs by having a rhombic-ovate lip that lacks a long claw at the base and two calli on the upper surface as found in G. menghaiensis.
20406136|Two new species in the Tillandsia utriculata (L.) L. complex (Bromeliaceae) from Mexico are proposed. Both are herein described and illustrated with their affinities discussed. The first new entity, T. aesii I. Ramrez & Carnevali from the states of Jalisco, Guerrero, and Oaxaca, is similar to T. makoyana Baker, but the new taxon has an open rosette with leaves that are green adaxially and white lepidote abaxially (vs. a funnelform rosette with gray leaves on both surfaces in T. makoyana), actinomorphic flowers with a light apple-green corolla (vs. zygomorphic with a purple to light purple corolla). The second taxon proposed here, T. pinicola I. Ramrez & Carnevali, from the state of Oaxaca, is also similar to T. makoyana, but is a smaller plant with a more compact growth habit and leaves with proportionally shorter leaf blades that abruptly attenuate from a broad sheath (vs. gradually attenuate into the proportionally longer blade) into a sub-acicular apex. It is also characterized by typically growing on pines, hence the epithet. /// Dos nuevas especies en el complejo Tillandsia utriculata (L.) L. (Bromeliaceae) de Mxico se proponen como nuevas. Ambas se describen, se discuten sus afinidades y se documentan con ilustraciones y fotografas. La primera especie T. aesii I. Ramrez & Carnevali de los estados de Jalisco, Guerrerro y Oaxaca, es similar a T. makoyana Baker pero la nueva especie tiene rosetas abiertas con hojas verdes adaxialmente y blanco lepidotas abaxialmente (vs. rosetas en forma de embudo con hojas grises en ambas superficies en T. makoyana), flores actinomrficas con corola verde manzana claro (vs. flores zigomorfas y con ptalos prpura o prpura claro). La segunda especie, T. pinicola I. Ramrez & Carnevali, del estado de Oaxaca, es tambin similar a T. makoyana pero es una planta ms pequea con un hbito de crecimiento ms compacto y hojas proporcionalmente con lminas foliares ms cortas las cuales se atenan abruptamente en una vaina ancha (vs. vainas atenundose gradualmente en lminas foliares proporcionalmente ms largas) con un pice acicular. Esta nueva especie tambin se caracteriza por crecer en pinos, de all su epteto.
10.2307/3393159|Kostermanthus robustus is described from the Malaysian state of Sarawak in Borneo. This is only the third species in this genus, which is distinguished from other Malesian genera of Chrysobalanaceae by the stamens, which are united into a ligule as in the Neotropical genus Acioa and the African genus Dactyladenia.
10.2307/3391938|Pollia macrobracteata, a new species from Guangxi (China), is described, and its relationship and distinguishing characters are discussed.
10.2307/3392059|Ocotea oppositifolia, from the Serra do Espinhao, Bahia-Minas Gerais, Brazil, is described as new. It can be distinguished from the other neotropical species in the genus by the combination of its opposite leaves, pit domatia, and double-rimmed cupules.
10.2307/3391656|Bulnesia rivas-martinezii from southern inter-Andean Bolivia is described. Illustrations and ecological data for the new species are provided, as is a key to the three most closely related species of Bulnesia subg. Bulnesia.
3393326|A new white-flowered form is described as Tibetia himalaica (Baker) H. P. Tsui forma alba X. Y. Zhu (Leguminosae) from Sichuan Province, China.
10.2307/3391748|Las nuevas especies Coussarea sancti-ciprianii C. M. Taylor, Duroia laevis Devia, Persson & C. M. Taylor, Duroia sancti-ciprianii Devia, Persson & C. M. Taylor, Faramea ampla C. M. Taylor, Faramea monsalveae C. M. Taylor, Faramea calimana C. M. Taylor y Psychotria monsalveae C. M. Taylor y la subespecie nueva Coussarea loftonii subsp. calimana C. M. Taylor se describen, basadas en material colectado durante los proyectos de inventarios florsticos en Bajo Calima y el ro Escalerete en la regin de la costa pacfica del departamento del Valle del Cauca, Colombia; las distribuciones de algunas de ellas se extienden hasta el departamento del Choc en el norte y al noroeste de Ecuador en el sur. /// The new species Coussarea sancti-ciprianii C. M. Taylor, Duroia laevis Devia, Persson & C. M. Taylor, Duroia sancti-ciprianii Devia, Persson & C. M. Taylor, Faramea ampla C. M. Taylor, Faramea monsalveae C. M. Taylor, Faramea calimana C. M. Taylor, and Psychotria monsalveae C. M. Taylor, and the new subspecies Coussarea loftonii subsp. calimana C. M. Taylor are here described based on material collected for the floristic inventory of the Bajo Calima and Ro Escalerete project regions in coastal Valle del Cauca Department, Colombia; several of these species range north to Choc Department and south into north-western Ecuador.
20406298|Streptanthus glandulosus Hooker subsp. josephinensis Al-Shehbaz & M. Mayer (Brassicaceae) is described as new. The new combinations S. glandulosus subsp. niger (Greene) Al-Shehbaz, M. Mayer & D. W. Taylor, S. glandulosus subsp. sonomensis (Kruckeberg) M. Mayer & D. W. Taylor, and S. vimineus (Greene) Al-Shehbaz & D. W. Taylor, as well as a new status for S. glandulosus subsp. albidus (Greene) Al-Shehbaz, M. Mayer & D. W. Taylor and S. glandulous subsp. hoffmanii (Kruckeberg) M. Mayer & D. W. Taylor, are proposed. A key to the eight subspecies of S. glandulosus is presented. Mesoreanthus fallax Greene and S. sparsiflorus Rollins are reduced to synonymy of S. vimineus and S. platycarpus A. Gray, respectively. The names M. vimineus Greene and S. niger Greene are lectotypified. The IUCN status of S. glandulosus subsp. josephinensis is given as Critically Endangered (CE).
3393468|A new species of Croton, C. subasperrimus, is described and illustrated from a previously unexplored area of Amazonas State, Brazil. It belongs to Croton sect. Luntia subsect. Cuneati because of its pinnate leaf venation, slightly reduplicate pistillate calyx, partially bisexual basal cymules, presence of lepidote trichomes, low stamen number, and multifid stigmas. It differs from related species in its stellate-lepidote trichomes that sometimes have tall porrect central rays and in its smaller, concolorous leaves with an obtuse base and stip-itate glands along the margins.
20406153|A new species of Asplenium L. from Ethiopia, A. balense Chaerle & Viane, is described and illustrated. This new species is similar to A. demerkense Hieronymus, which differs in rhizome, scales, and frond morphology, and also in the presence of short false veins in the laminae. The new species resembles A. uhligii Hieronymus, but differs in degree of lamina dissection and in the presence of unicellular capitate glands on the indusial margin. Asplenium balense also resembles A. erythraeum Pichi Sermolli, which can be distinguished by the absence of both glands and false veins. Asplenium balense belongs to the group of East African high-altitude (2000-4700 m) Asplenium species similar in gross morphology to members of the A. aethiopicum (Burman f.) Becherer complex. A key to distinguish A. balense from its three most similar, tropical northeast African species (A. demerkense, A. erythraeum, and A. uhligii) is presented.
20406014|Chaetanthera kalinae, a new annual species of Chaetanthera Ruiz & Pavn, has been discovered from the Cordillera de Doa Ana and the Sierra de Tatul del Medio in Chile. This yellow-flowered, pseudorosette-forming species from the subgenus Tylloma is described, illustrated, and discussed in the context of the morphologically most similar taxa: C. limbata (yellow-flowered, lax annual) and C. lanata (white-flowered, pseudorosette-forming perennial; subgenus Carmelita). /// Se describe una nueva especie anual del gnero Chaetanthera Ruiz & Pavn, C. kalinae, de la Cordillera de Doa Ana y la Sierra de Tatul del Medio, Chile. Pertenece al subgnero Tylloma, es de hbito pseudo-arrosetado y con flores marginales amarillas. Se da una descripcin con ilustraciones y se discuten aspectos de su morfologa en el contexto de los taxones parecidos: C. limbata (planta anual de hbito flojo y flores amarillas) y C. lanata (planta perenne, pseudo-arrosetada y flores blancas; subgnero Carmelita).
10.2307/3392217|A new species, Cayaponia longiloba, is described from Mesoamerica. It is illustrated, and its affinities are discussed.
3393390|The new Tibetan Desideria mieheorum (Brassicaceae) is described and illustrated. It differs from the closely related D. flabellata by having slender styles 5-7 mm long, entire stigmas, blue petals, and 10 to 16 ovules per ovary. Desideria flabellata has obsolete styles, prominently 2-lobed stigmas, purple petals, and 14 to 24 ovules per locule.
43289103|Typification of the endemic Iberian species Ranunculus cabrerensis Rothm. is discussed. A specimen at MA from the exsiccatae for the Plantae Hispanie Boreali-Occidentalis (Rothmaler, 1934) is designated lectotype for this endemic Iberian species.
10.2307/3391562|A new species, Croton ascendens, is described as the second liana in its genus from South America. The new species is distinguished from Croton pullei, the other liana in the genus described from Surinam, by its palmately lobed leaves, bisexual racemes in inflorescences, and slightly cucullate linear-spatulate petals of staminate flowers. Croton ascendens is placed in section Croton, subsection Croton.
10.2307/3392206|Justicia arborescens, J. circulibracteata, and J. densibracteata are described and illustrated. Justicia arborescens, of the Monteverde Cloud Forest area, is rare or unique in its arboreal habit. Justicia circulibracteata is recognized by its spikelike inflorescences with spreading, suborbicular bracts 3-4 mm long, each bract bearing a spikelet with 2-5 secund flowers. Justicia densibracteata is recognized by its spicate panicles, inflorescences with nodes with one fertile and one highly reduced sterile bract, and 4-colporate pollen.
40856283|Five new combinations in Schoenoplectus (Rchb.) Palla (Cyperaceae) are proposed for taxa occurring in China. All these taxa previously had been placed in Scirpus L. s. l., which has been split into segregate genera in the recent literature. The following transfers are made for taxa originally described from China: Schoenoplectus chuanus (Tang & F. T. Wang) S. Yun Liang & S. R. Zhang, its type from Jiangsu; S. jingmenensis (Tang & F. T. Wang) S. Yun Liang & S. R. Zhang, from Hubei; S. monocephalus (J. Q. He) S. Yun Liang & S. R. Zhang, from Anhui; S. pseudoarticulatus (L. K. Dai & S. M. Huang) S. Yun Liang & S. R. Zhang, from Hainan; and S. supinus (L.) Palla subsp. densicorrugatus (Tang & F. T. Wang) S. Yun Liang & S. R. Zhang, from Xinjiang.
23259351|Iochroma baumii S. D. Sm. & S. Leiva (Solanaceae) is described from the cloud forests of Napo in northern Ecuador. We provide a summary of the phylogenetic relationships and recent taxonomic changes in Iochroma Benth. and related genera and discuss the phylogenetic placement of this newest species. Iochroma baumii shares its geographic distribution and many floral features with its closest relatives I. calycinum Benth., I. fuchsioides (Bonpl.) Miers, and I. gesnerioides (Kunth) Miers, but its deep blue flowers with involute corolla lobes, which appear in clusters along older branches, make it easily distinguishable from its congeners. Se describe Iochroma baumii S. D. Sm. & S. Leiva (Solanaceae) de los bosques nublados del norte de Ecuador. Presentamos un resumen de las relaciones filogenticas y cambios taxonmicos ms recientes en Iochroma Benth. y los gneros afines. Tambin discutimos la relaciones filogenticas entre esta nueva especie y las otras especies de Iochroma. Iochroma baumii comparte su distribucin geogrfica y caractersticas florales con las especies hermanas: I. calycinum Benth., I. fuchsioides (Bonpl.) Miers y I. gesnerioides (Kunth) Miers, pero, por sus flores azloscuro con lbulos involutos, que aparecen agrupadas en ramas maduras, se distingue fcilmente de las otras especies de Iochroma.
10.2307/3393140|Descriptions and illustrations are presented for the new species Faramea accumulans C. M. Taylor and F. areolata C. M. Taylor of the San Blas region of eastern Panama, F. guaramacalensis C. M. Taylor from cloud forests in northwestern Venezuela, and F. longistipula C. M. Taylor from montane forests in northwestern Colombia. The new subspecies F. tamberlikiana subsp. sessifolia (P. H. Allen) C. M. Taylor from southern Costa Rica represents the northernmost range extension of this species.
10.2307/3391809|A new species, Sarcopera flammifera, and a new subspecies, Sarcopera tepuiensis subsp. coccinea, are described. Three new combinations, Sarcopera aurantiaca, Sarcopera tepuiensis, and Marcgraviastrum pendulum, are validated.
20406166|Morphological and molecular analyses of Honduran dwarf mistletoe (Arceuthobium hondurense Hawksworth & Wiens) and Hawksworth's dwarf mistletoe (A. hawksworthii Wiens & C. G. Shaw bis) indicate these taxa are closely related but can be distinguished based on a few morphological differences. They can also be distinguished by their phenology and host range. Because there are only a few morphological differences between these dwarf mistletoes and because the DNA sequences that have been examined for them are nearly identical, Hawksworth's dwarf mistletoe is reclassified as a subspecies of Honduran dwarf mistletoe: Arceuthobium hondurense subsp. hawksworthii (Wiens & C. G. Shaw bis) Mathiasen.
10.2307/3391545|Saracha grandiflora is transferred to Jaltomata as J. grandiflora. The species appears to be rare: only three collections are known, all from the same locality. A closely related species of Jaltomata, J. procumbens, is undergoing progressive domestication in Mexico, and this species expands the representation of the genus in the region.
20406305|Draba simmonsii Elven & Al-Shehbaz (Brassicaceae), a new species from the Canadian Arctic Archipelago, is described and illustrated. Its taxonomic history, distribution, habitats, and distinguishing characters from the closely related D. micropetala Hooker and D. pauciflora R. Brown are discussed. The IUCN status of the new species is determined as Least Concern (LC). Draba simmonsii is based on D. alpina L. var. gracilescens Simmons, which is lectotypified.
10.2307/3393078|Moraea cantharophila and M. lilacina are new species of the African genus Moraea (ca. 195 species), of subfamily Iridoideae of the Iridaceae. Both species belong to Moraea subg. Vieusseuxia, which comprises 35 species restricted to southern Africa and is centered in the southern African winter-rainfall zone. Moraea cantharophila, from southwestern Western Cape Province, has unusual flowers for the subgenus with entire relatively large inner tepals with a broad dark median streak on the claw. It is distinguished from its closest relative, the fly-pollinated M. lurida, by the shallower floral cup and unscented nectarless flowers. Moraea lilacina, from the northern Langeberg foothills in the Little Karoo of southeastern Western Cape Province, can be distinguished from the related M. unguiculata by its relatively large flower, pink pigmentation, trilobed inner tepals with a long, erect central cusp, and often densely hairy filament column. Nomenclatural adjustments include the reduction of M. neopavonia in M. tulbaghensis and the provision of a new name for the homonym M. flexuosa Goldblatt. Newly discovered populations of M. saxicola and M. rivulicola increase their known geographical ranges and require some adjustment to their delimitation.
10.2307/3391731|Telaranea consobrina, T. fragilis, and T. palmata, new species from Australasia, are described and illustrated. Telaranea clatritexta (Stephani) Engel & Merrill and T. quadricilia (Stephani) Engel & Merrill of Australasia and T. fernandeziensis (Stephani) Engel & Merrill from Juan Fernndez are new combinations. Frullania neocaledonica of New Caledonia is proposed as a new name for Frullania caledonica (Schuster) Schuster, an illegitimate name.
20406213|New combinations are made for 10 taxa previously included in the genus Cleome L. s.l. These are now considered to belong in the genera Cleoserrata Iltis, which is newly described herein, Hemiscola Rafinesque, Peritoma DC., and Tarenaya Rafinesque, as follows: Cleoserrata serrata (Jacquin) Iltis, C. speciosa (Rafinesque) Iltis, H. diffusa (Banks ex DC.) Iltis, P. arborea (Nuttall) Iltis, P. arborea var. angustata (Parish) Iltis, P. arborea var. globosa (Coville) Iltis, P. jonesii (J. F. Macbride) Iltis, P. multicaulis (Moio & Sess ex DC.) Iltis, P. platycarpa (Torrey) Iltis, and T. hassleriana (Chodat) Iltis. A lectotype is designated for the basionym of Cleoserrata speciosa, Cleome speciosa Rafinesque.
3393362|In the description of two species of Machilus, Chun cited two type collections. In each case, one of the type collections does not belong in the Lauraceae. Lectotypification of these two names is proposed.
10.2307/3392267|Sicydium daviliae, from the region of Ocozocuautla, Chiapas, Mexico, is described as new. It can be distinguished from the other species in the genus by the presence of a soft and dense pubescence composed of long, multicellular, non-glandular hairs covering stems, blade surfaces, petioles and tendrils, by filaments 2-3 times longer than anthers, by petal margins entire, and by staminate pedicels articulate at the middle or further up. /// Se describe como nueva especie a Sicydium daviliae, de la regin de Ocozocuautla, Chiapas, Mxico. Esta nueva especie se distingue de las otras especies del gnero por la pubescencia densa y suave, compuesta de tricomas largos, multicelulares y no glandulares, la cual cubre los tallos, ambas superficies de la lmina, los peciolos y los zarcillos, as como tambin por presentar filamentos 2-3 veces ms largos que las anteras, ptalos con los mrgenes enteros y pedicelos estaminados articulados en la mitad o poco ms arriba.
10.2307/3393522|A new species of Tillandsia is proposed. It is similar to Tillandsia brachycaulos Schlechtendal and Tillandsia balbisiana Schultes f., two sympatric species. The new species is most similar to T. brachycaulos in flower and bract color, but the elongated inflorescences resemble those of T. balbisiana, although the branches are much shorter.
10.2307/3392114|Triraphis devia Filgueiras & Zuloaga from central Brazil is described as a new species, illustrated, and compared with morphologically similar species in the genus. Anatomical and ecological data are presented together with a biogeographical discussion. A tentative key to all the species of Triraphis is provided. This is the first record of a native Triraphis in Brazil and in South America.
10.2307/3391885|A new, endemic species of the Pacific palm genus Pritchardia is described. Pritchardia perlmanii is distinct morphologically from all other Pritchardia species by the combination of medium stature, tomentose petioles and prophylls, abaxially glabrous to sparsely lepidote leaf blades, glabrous inflorescences with two orders of branching, and obovoid to pyriform fruits. Like many other Hawaiian species of Pritchardia, P. perlmanii has no sympatric congeners, is restricted to a single valley, and is vulnerable to extinction.
10.2307/3393049|Delphinium calthifolium Q. E. Yang & Y. Luo, a new species of Ranunculaceae from Beichuan County, Sichuan Province, is described and illustrated. The new species is distinguished by its undivided, orbicular-cordate or broadly ovate-cordate leaves and very narrowly subulate-cylindric spur of the upper sepal. It is perhaps related to D. delavayi Franchet by its blue staminodes, with bifid, ventrally sparsely yellowish barbate limb, and its transversely undulate seed surface architecture of minute scales.
10.2307/3392215|Based on distinct morphological and anatomical characteristics, Cortaderia bifida var. grandiflora Henrard, currently considered a synonym of C. bifida Pilger, is raised to specific status as Cortaderia boliviensis. Known only from the Bolivian Andes, its distribution, ecology, and phenology are briefly discussed. /// En base a sus caractersticas morfolgicas y anatmicas distinctas, Cortaderia bifida var. grandiflora Henrard, considerada actualmente como un sinnimo de C. bifida Pilger, es elevada al rango de especie como Cortaderia boliviensis. Se discute brevemente la distribucin, ecologa y fenologa de esta especie conocida solamente de los Andes bolivianos.
10.2307/3392264|Cuphea (sect. Melvilla) alaniana from central Mexico and C. (sect. Diploptychia) armata from Central America are described and illustrated. The monotypic family Alzateaceae, long known from Peru and Bolivia, and more recently discovered in Costa Rica, Panama, and Colombia, is here reported from Ecuador for the first time. Of the two Ecuadorian collections, one belongs to the northern, broad-leaved Alzatea verticillata subsp. amplifolia; the other is most similar to the southern subspecies verticillata. Apical leaf glands are a newly recognized feature of the genus. They are interpreted as extra-floral nectaries.
10.2307/3392080|Drosera graomogolensis T. Silva sp. nov. is described from the region of Gro-Mogol, Minas Gerais, Brazil. The species is included in section Drosera and is related to D. villosa A. St. Hilaire. The morphological characters that distinguish it from other species in the section are discussed, together with details of habitat.
20406286|A new species of Lycianthes (Dunal) Hassler (Solanaceae, Capsiceae) is described and illustrated. Lycianthes bullata C. I. Orozco, C. A. Vargas & Serralde is found at low altitudes in the Pacific region of Colombia. This species belongs to the subgenus Polymeris (Dunal) Bitter; it is a vine and exhibits stellate and stalked ferruginous hairs and unifoliate sympodia. It is related to L. ferruginea Bitter but can be distinguished from this species by the intense ferruginous color of its indument; its larger foliar lamina (6.5-19  5-9 cm), elliptic to ovate, with adaxial surface glossy and bullate, and abaxial surface extremely reticulate; its larger flowers (15-17 mm long); the presence of five or six stamens; and its larger fruits (16-30 mm in diam.). /// Una especie nueva de Lycianthes (Dunal) Hassler (Solanaceae, Capsiceae) se describe e ilustra. Lycianthes bullata C. I. Orozco, C. A. Vargas & Serralde se encontr en la regin del Pacfico a bajas altitudes. Esta nueva especie pertenece al subgnero Polymeris (Dunal) Bitter, es una liana laosa, con pelos ferrugineos estrellados, estipitados, unidades simpodiales unifoliadas. Es semejante a L. ferruginea Bitter pero se diferencia de sta por el fuerte color ferrugneo del indumento, sus grandes lminas foliares (6.5-19  5-9 cm), extremadamente brillantes, bulladas y fuertemente reticuladas por el envs, elpticas a ovadas, sus grandes flores con corolas de (15-17 mm de longitud), la presencia de 5 o 6 estambres, y sus frutos grandes (16-30 mm in dimetro).
20406073|Se propone una nueva especie de Thoreauea J. K. Williams. Esta especie difiere de Thoreauea paneroi J. K. Williams por tener una corona corolina 10-lobulada en el pice y estambres tan largos como la corona. La especie que aqu se describe tiene como hbitat los bosques de Pinus L., Quercus L., Abies Miller y bosque mesfilo de montaa que se localizan en la parte ms alta de la Sierra de Guerrero. Se describen por primera vez los frutos y las semillas para el gnero. /// A new species of Thoreauea J. K. Williams is proposed. This species differs from Thoreauea paneroi J. K. Williams in its corolline crown 10-lobulate at the apex and stamens as long as the crown. The species described in this paper was found in habitats of forests of Pinus L., Quercus L., and Abies Miller and in montane rain forest found in the highest region of the Sierra of Guerrero. The fruits and seeds are described for the first time for this genus.
10.2307/3391447|Five new species of Cyclanthera are here described: C. cogniauxii from the Central Cordillera of Costa Rica; C. dieterleana from Durango, Mexico; C. dioscoreoides with a disjunct distribution in Mxico, Mexico, and Suchitepquez, Guatemala; C. entata from Chiapas, Mexico; and C. heiseri from Durango, Sinaloa, and Jalisco in Mexico.
20406115|Myrcia clavija Sobral, Myrciaria pilosa Sobral & Couto, Plinia longiacuminata Sobral, and Plinia subavenia Sobral are newly described and illustrated. Myrcia clavija, from montane forests of Minas Gerais, is related to M. hexasticha Kiaerskou, from which it differs by its 6-verticillate leaves, persistent bracteoles, and aristate calyx lobes. Myrciaria pilosa, from rocky fields of Bahia and forests of Minas Gerais, is close to M. floribunda (H. West ex Willdenow) O. Berg, differing by the pubescence of its leaves and flowers. Plinia longiacuminata and P. subavenia were collected from rainforests in coastal Bahia and Esprito Santo; the former is close to P. edulis (Vellozo) Sobral, differing from it by glabrous twigs and smaller leaves, and the latter is close to P. involucrata (O. Berg) McVaugh, from which it is distinguished by the glabrescence of leaves and fruits and by blades with the midvein adaxially sulcate. Comments on the conservation status of the species are also provided. /// Myrcia clavija Sobral, Myrciaria pilosa Sobral & Couto, Plinia longiacuminata Sobral e Plinia subavenia Sobral so descritas como novas e ilustradas. Myrcia clavija, das florestas montanas de Minas Gerais,  prxima a M. hexasticha Kiaerskou, diferindo pelas folhas 6-verticiladas, bractolas persistentes e lobos do clice aristados. Myrciaria pilosa, dos campos rupestres da Bahia e florestas de Minas Gerais,  afim a M. floribunda (H. West ex Willdenow) O. Berg, da qual se distingue pelas folhas e flores pilosas. Plinia longiacuminata e P. subavenia foram coletadas na mata atlntica da Bahia e Esprito Santo; a primeira se assemelha a P. edulis (Vellozo) Sobral, diferindo pelos ramos glabros e folhas mais estreitas, e a segunda  prxima a P. involucrata (O. Berg) McVaugh, da qual se distingue pelas folhas e frutos glabrescentes e lminas com nervura central sulcada na face adaxial. So apresentados comentrios sobre o status de conservao das espcies descritas.
20406312|Marsdenia magallanesiana Jurez-Jaimes, una nueva especie del estado de Jalisco, es descrita e ilustrada, se compara con M. edulis S. Watson y M. callosa Jurez-Jaimes & W. D. Stevens, que son las especies ms similares morfolgicamente. Las tres especies crecen en reas separadas de las selvas bajas caducifolias del Pacfico mexicano. Sin embargo, la nueva especie se distingue por no presentar callos carnosos en los senos de lo lbulos de la corola, por los lbulos de la corona suborbiculares con los mrgenes sin engrosamientos y por el apndice estilar subcnico con el pice corto ligeramente dividido. /// Marsdenia magallanesiana Jurez-Jaimes, a new species from the state of Jalisco, Mexico, is described and illustrated here; it is compared with M. edulis S. Watson and M. callosa Jurez-Jaimes & W. D. Stevens, which are the morphologically most similar species to it. The three species grow in separate areas of the tropical deciduous forest of the Pacific slopes of Mexico. However, the new species is distinguished by the absence of a fleshy callus on the corolla sinus lobes, its corona lobes suborbicular with margins not thickened, and its style appendage subconic with a short, slightly divided apex.
3393313|A new species and a new variety of Cimicifuga (Ranunculaceae) are described and illustrated. Cimicifuga austrokoreana, restricted to south-central Korea, is distinguished from the other species of the genus by its strongly arcuate inflorescence axis, much shorter pedicels, and three bracteoles, one at the base and the other two at the middle of the pedicel. Cimicifuga elata var. alpestris, found in southern Oregon in the United States, is distinguished from variety elata and the other members of the genus by its sheathing scales surrounding the lower nodes of the stem.
10.2307/3391667|As a result of a review of the grass family for Flora Mesoamericana, 13 new species (Arthrostylidium judziewiczii, A. merostachyoides, Aulonemia clarkiae, Merostachys latifolia, Rhipidocladum martinezii, Guadua macclurei, Arberella grayumii, Cryptochloa soderstromii, Pariana argentea, Danthonia chiapasensis, Pereilema diandrum, Digitaria breedlovei, D. clavitricha) and three new varieties (Eragrostis rufescens var. mesoamericana, Panicum aquaticum var. cartagoense, Andropogon gerardii var. hondurensis) are described, one new name (Elymus cordilleranus) is proposed, 17 new combinations (Guadua longifolia, Chondrosum hirsutum var. glandulosum, Dichanthelium sphaerocarpon var. floridanum, D. sciurotoides, D. sciurotis, D. aciculare var. ramosum, D. dichotomum var. unciphyllum, D. umbonulatum, D. cordovense, D. pantrichum, Paspalidium chapmanii, P. distantiflora, P. leonis, P. pradana, P. ophiticola, P. subtransiens, P. utowanaea) are made, and one name (Bromus exaltatus) is lectotypified.
23018491|A new species of Hagenbachia Nees & Mart. (Anthericaceae), H. ecuadorensis Cruden, is described from Ecuador. In addition to being geographically isolated from the other broad-leafed species in Hagenbachia, it has longer pedicels, filaments, and anthers, as well as qualitative differences in other traits.
20406103|Se describe e ilustra Senecio glandulifer Dematteis & Cristbal (Asteraceae), una nueva especie de los bosques abiertos del nordeste de Argentina. La nueva entidad pertenece al complejo S. pinnatus y se diferencia de las especies afines por la presencia de pelos glandulares y las hojas semicarnosas. Adems, S. glandulifer presenta nmero cromosmico 2n = 40, lo cual la distingue de su especie estrechamente relacionada S. pinnatus Poiret, que muestra 2n = 80. /// The new species Senecio glandulifer Dematteis & Cristbal (Asteraceae) from the open forest of northeastern Argentina is described and illustrated. The new entity belongs to the S. pinnatus complex, and it is distinguished from related species by the glandular hairs and somewhat fleshy leaves. In addition, S. glandulifer presents a chromosome number of 2n = 40, which distinguishes it from the closely related S. pinnatus Poiret with 2n = 80.
10.2307/3391822|Onosma apiculatum from Xinjiang, China, is described. Its relationship to the three species of series Tianschanica is discussed, and its distinguishing characters from these are given.
40300941|A new putative natural hybrid bromeliad from southernmost Brazil, Tillandsia Xbaptistana Gonalves & Azevdo-Gonalves (Bromeliaceae), is here described. Its habit is very similar to T. mallemontii Glaziou ex Mez, but the floral characteristics are intermediate between the probable parental taxa (T. recurvata (L.) L. and T. mallemontii). A key to identify this hybrid and its parents on the basis of the floral characters is also presented. /// Uma nova bromlia, provvel hbrida natural, Tillandsia Xbaptistana Gonalves & Azevdo-Gonalves (Bromeliaceae),  aqui descrita. Seu hbito  muito similar ao de T. mallemontii Glaziou ex Mez, enquanto suas caractersticas florais so intermedirias entre os txons parentais (T. recurvata (L.) L. e T. mallemontii). Uma chave para identificar este hibrido e seus parentais, com base em caracteres florais, tambm  apresentada.
10.2307/3393223|Se describe e ilustra a Bauhinia coclensis, especie nueva de Fabaceae endmica de Panam, esta relacionada con B. cookii Rose y B. seleriana Harms de la seccin Amaria por su hbito arborescente o arbustivo, estpulas triangulares, cliz de 1-2 cm de largo, ptalos ovado-elpticos y androceo de 10 estambres connatos en la base; se diferencia de ellas por tener el tubo calicinal 5-alado. /// Bauhinia coclensis, a new species of Fabaceae endemic to Panama, is described and illustrated. It resembles B. cookii Rose and B. seleriana Harms, both in section Amaria and characterized by an arborescent or shrubby habit, ovate, lanceolate, or triangular stipules, calyx 1-2 cm long, elliptic or lanceolate petals, and androecium of 10 connate stamens, but differs from them in its 5-winged calyx tube.
10.2307/3393038|A revision of the Chinese species of Silene L. for the forthcoming account of that genus in the Flora of China, Volume 6, necessitates publication of the following two new combinations, one new rank, one replacement name, and three new species: Silene davidii (Franchet) Oxelman & Lidn, comb. nov., S. kialensis (F. N. Williams) Lidn & Oxelman, comb. nov., S. herbilegorum (Bocquet) Lidn & Oxelman, stat. nov., S. principis Oxelman & Lidn, nom. nov., S. sveae Lidn & Oxelman, sp. nov., S. tubulosa Oxelman & Lidn, sp. nov., and S. tibetica Lidn & Oxelman, sp. nov.
10.2307/3391649|Se describe Froesia diffusa Gereau & Rod. Vsquez (Quiinaceae) del Per (Loreto) y Brasil (Acre), distinguida por el gran nmero de fololos de las hojas y la pancula alargada y difusa. Con esta especie nueva los cuatro gneros de la familia estn todos representados en la flora peruana; se presentan claves de identificacin de los gneros y de las cuatro especies de Froesia Pires. /// Froesia diffusa Gereau & Rod. Vs-quez (Quiinaceae) is described from Peru (Loreto) and Brazil (Acre), distinguished by leaves with a large number of leaflets and its elongated, diffuse panicle. With this new species all four genera of the family are represented in the Peruvian flora; keys are presented for the identification of the genera and of the four species of Froesia Pires.
27765198|Two new species of Cucurbitaceae, tribe Cucurbiteae, with trifoliolate leaves are described from Costa Rica, one each in Cayaponia Silva Manso and Cionosicys Grisebach. Cayaponia hammelli Grayum, with large, pendent staminate flowers, ranges from Costa Rica to Pacific Ecuador, while the exceptionally large-fruited Cionosicys guabubu Grayum & J. A. Gonzlez is restricted to Nicaragua, Costa Rica, and central Panama. Both of these new species have sometimes been misidentified as Cayaponia granatensis Cogniaux, a species with trilobate leaves that is dubiously present in Mesoamerica. The distinction between Cayaponia and the similar Cionosicys is discussed in some detail, and a key is provided for all species of Cionosicys with validly published names.
10.2307/3391825|Two species of Araceae from the Guianas are described. Philodendron billietiae, known from Guayana, French Guiana, and Brazil, is most closely related to P. acutatum. Xanthosoma granvillei, known only from French Guiana, is distinguished mainly by its large, blackish-drying blades.
10.2307/3393274| Andropogon brasiliensis and A. monocladus, as well as a new variety, A. ingratus var. hirsutus from Brazil, are described. One new combination, A. bogotensis (Hackel) A. Zanin & Longhi-Wagner, is proposed. Morphological descriptions, illustrations, data on habitat, and geographical distribution are provided. /// Andropogon brasiliensis e A. monocladus, bem como uma nova variedade, A. ingratus var. hirsutus para o Brasil, so descritas. Uma nova combinao, A. bogotensis (Hackel) A. Zanin & Longhi-Wagner  proposta. So fornecidas descries morfolgicas, ilustraes, dados sobre habitat e distribuio. 
10.2307/3392073|Six new species of Rubiaceae from southern Mexico and Mesoamerica are described and illustrated: Crusea andersoniorum Lorence, Deppea miahuatlanica Lorence, Glossostipula strigosa Lorence, Hedyotis terrellii Lorence, Rondeletia evansii Lorence, and Rondeletia pringlei Lorence. One new combination is proposed, Chomelia rudis (Standley) Lorence, based on Anisomeris rudis Standley, and the new name Psychotria molinarum Lorence is proposed based on Evea chiapensis Standley.
40300895|Chelonopsis chekiangensis C. Y. Wu, originally described from Zhejiang, China, was not validly published in 1959 because no type specimen was designated. To enable formal use of the name, the species is validated here, as is C. chekiangensis var. brevipes C. Y. Wu & H. W. Li, a variety from Guangdong Province.
10.2307/3393378|Hemipiliopsis, a monotypic new genus of Orchidaceae, is described based on H. purpureopunctata (K. Y. Lang) Y. B. Luo & S. C. Chen (Habenaria purpureopunctata K. Y. Lang) from southeastern Xizang (Tibet). Its possible relationships to Brachycorythis, Hemipilia, and Habenaria are discussed.
10.2307/3391946| Ten new species of Merostachys, M. annulifera, M. argentea, M. bifurcata, M. calderoniana, M. lanata, M. leptophylla, M. magnispicula, M. medullosa, M. procerrima, and M. ramosissima, from the state of Bahia, Brazil, and two, M. fimbriata and M. rondoniensis, from the state of Rondnia, Brazil, are described and illustrated. Some new and unusual characteristics for the genus (the branching of the main culm) in M. ramosissima, M. fimbriata, and M. annulifera are discussed. 
10.2307/3392136|The new species Psychotria rhombibractea C. M. Taylor & M. T. Campos, from wet forest in the Adolpho Ducke Forest Reserve, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil, is here described and illustrated. /// A nova especie Psychotria rhombibractea C. M. Taylor & M. T. Campos, com ocorrncia na florestal tropical mida, na Reserva Florestal Adolpho Ducke, Manaus, Brazil,  descrita e ilustrada.
23259335|Four species of Scabiosa L. are transferred to Lomelosia Raf. (Dipsacaceae) to complete the relocation of all scabious taxa with a pitted epicalyx into Lomelosia. The new combinations are: L. deserticola (Rech. f.) P. Caputo & Del Guacchio, L. poecilocarpa (Rech. f.) P. Caputo & Del Guacchio, L. schimperiana (Boiss. & Buhse) P. Caputo & Del Guacchio, and L. transcaspica (Rech. f.) P. Caputo & Del Guacchio.
20406339|A new species of Palicourea Aublet (Rubiaceae, Psychotrieae) is described and illustrated: P. palustris A. C. Gilman & C. M. Taylor from montane Costa Rica. This species differs from P. salicifolia Standley by its large stipules that have well-developed lobes and are persistent with age, and by its larger corollas with relatively longer lobes.
40300926|We describe here a novel achlorophyllous parasite on the roots of Hedyosmum mexicanum C. Cordemoy (Chloranthaceae) as a new genus and species, Eremitilla mexicana Yatskievych & J. L. Contreras. The new taxon is currently thought to be endemic to the state of Guerrero, Mexico. It is best classified in the Orobanchaceae, but differs from other members of the family in having 5-ribbed, muricate ovaries containing five parietal placentae, as well as unusual stamens in which the anther is partially embedded in an expanded filament apex. Within the Orobanchaceae, the new taxon is probably related to a group that contains the other American holoparasitic genera. Morphologically, Eremitilla Yatskievych & J. L. Contreras displays a number of autapomorphies, but few identifiable synapomorphies. This presumed relictual taxon presently is known only from a restricted habitat and a very small geographic range, and thus is of conservation concern.
10.2307/3393260|Acer yangbiense Y. S. Chen & Q. E. Yang, a new species from Yangbi County, Yunnan Province, is described and illustrated. This species is similar to Acer leipoense Fang & Soong from western Sichuan in having a pale gray abaxial surface of the leaves, a much longer glabrous infructescence and fruiting pedicels, and convex nutlets, but differs by its larger 5-lobed leaves with a cordate base, abaxially densely pubescent veins and veinlets, and pubescent young branchlets and petioles.
10.2307/3393198|Consideration of generic limits in the largely Brazilian tribe Microlicieae has resulted in an emended circumscription of the genus Lavoisiera to include those species with a capsule that dehisces longitudinally from the base to the apex, and an ovary that is always partly inferior with a persistent columella and laterally flattened lamelliform placental intrusions. An ongoing re-evaluation of Lavoisiera necessitates the transfer of seven species to Microlicia and one species to Trembleya. Six new combinations are proposed (Microlicia cerifera, M. mucugensis, M. noblickii, M. ordinata, M. vernicosa, and Trembleya elegans), and two new names are provided (Microlicia giuliettiana and M. longipedicellata) for epithets already pre-empted in the genus to which they are being transferred. Generic limits in Microlicia and Trembleya are also discussed, together with distributional notes and diagnostic characters for the species here transferred to these genera.
10.2307/3392129|Maytenus rupestris Pirani & Carvalho-Okano, a new species of Celastraceae endemic to the Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brazil, is described and illustrated. Included in section Maytenus, it is distinct from its congeners (especially from M. boaria Molina) by its ascending, very narrow leaves with revolute margins that are entire or sparsely denticulate on the distal half, and by its few-flowered cymes.
10.2307/3393161|Based on phylogenies generated using morphological and molecular data, Deprea glabra and D. sylvarum are transferred to Larnax, and a new subspecies, L. sylvarum subsp. novogranatensis, is described. Four new species are described and illustrated: Larnax cuyacensis from Peru, similar to L. glabra and L. sylvarum, but with a rotate, fleshier corolla much lighter in color, and a fruiting calyx tightly appressed to the berry; L. grandiflora from Peru, intermediate between L. andersonii and L. sachapapa; L. parviflora from Peru, similar to L. psilophyta of Ecuador, but differing in vegetative and reproductive characters and having the smallest flowers in the genus; and L. darcyana from Colombia, similar to L. subtriflora of Peru, but differing vegetatively and with much shorter, non-branching hairs, a smaller corolla, shorter filaments, and apiculate anthers. Keys are provided for selected genera and for Larnax. In addition, some synonymies are noted.
10.2307/3392051|Study of plants referred to Carex roraimensis disclosed that three geographically isolated species were represented. Carex roraimensis itself, confined to Mt. Roraima and the Chimant Massif, with retuse, obtuse, or acute pistillate scales shorter than the perigynia, short-beaked perigynia, and prolonged sheath apices, and two new species described here: Carex marahuacana, from Cerro Marahuaca, with longer-beaked perigynia, acuminate pistillate scales shorter than the perigynia, and sheath apices not prolonged beyond the base of the leaf blade; and C. neblinensis, from Cerro de la Neblina with long-beaked perigynia, acuminate pistillate scales as long as the perigynia, and prolonged sheath apices.
40300944|Taxonomic review is provided for taxa of Callitriche L. (Callitrichaceae) occurring in North America. One new species, C. stenoptera Lansdown, is described from Arizona in the United States, and the following names are lectotypified: C. anceps Fernald, C. drummondii Hegelmaier, C. hermaphroditica L. var. bicarpellaris (Fenley ex Jepson) H. Mason, C. longipedunculata Morong, C. marginata Torrey, C. nuttallii Torrey, C. sepulta S. Watson, and C. stenocarpa Hegelmaier.
20406127|The new species Peritassa manaoara Lombardi differs from other species in Peritassa Miers by its unique 3-lobed stigma. The inclusion of this new taxon in Peritassa was based on the characteristics of non-confluent anther locules and the disc free from the ovary wall, which distinguishes this species from Tontelea Aublet, the only other genus of Neotropical Hippocrateoideae species with a 3-lobed stigma and tubular nectariferous disc. /// A nova espcie Peritassa manaoara Lombardi  distinta de todas as outras espcies de Peritassa Miers pelo seu estigma trilobado nico. A incluso deste taxon novo em Peritassa foi baseada na caracterstica das anteras com lculos no confluentes e disco nectarfero livre da parede do ovrio, isso coloca essa espcie aparte daquelas includas em Tontelea Aublet, o nico outro gnero Neotropical de Hippocrateoideae com espcies com estigma trilobado e disco tubular.
20406022|Bouvardia viticella Lorea-Hernndez & Lozada-Prez is described and illustrated. This new species is distinguished by its scandent habit, main stem thick suberose at base, plinerved leaves, white flowers, short corolla tube evenly pubescent within, and corolla lobes densely papillose adaxially. Partial inflorescences and exserted anthers in short-styled flowers place it in Bouvardia Salisbury subg. Bouvardiastrum Schlechtendal, but its relationships below this level are not so clear.
20406278|Three subspecies of Rosa carolina L. (Rosaceae) are recognized in eastern Canada, the United States, and Mexico, including one change in combination and status and a new subspecies, respectively: R. carolina subsp. subserrulata (Rydberg) W. H. Lewis and R. carolina subsp. mexicoensis W. H. Lewis. Rosa carolina subsp. subserrulata occurs commonly in the western range of the species centered in the Ozark Plateau and adjacent areas, north in the midwestern United States to eastern Lake Superior in Canada, and infrequently to the eastern ranges of the Appalachian and Allegheny Mountains, while R. carolina subsp. mexicoensis is a southern disjunct subspecies of the Sierra Madre Oriental in northeastern Mexico. Two nothospecies are described for putative hybrids: R. medioccidentis W. H. Lewis is recognized between R. carolina and R. arkansana Porter in the midwestern United States, and R. novae-angliae W. H. Lewis between R. carolina and R. virginiana Miller in the eastern United States region of New England. Synonyms are provided for appropriate subspecies and hybrids. Two lectotypes are designated here, and representative exsiccatae or paratypes are given for the new subspecies and nothospecies. The following names are lectotypified: R. rudiuscula Greene and R. serrulata Rafinesque.
10.2307/3393565|Four new species of Asplundia and one of Dicranopygium are described and illustrated. Asplundia allenii is endemic to Panama, D. tatica is endemic to Costa Rica, A. brunneistigma is known from Costa Rica and Panama, A. ceci from Costa Rica to northern Colombia, and A. albicarpa from Costa Rica to Ecuador. Asplundia stenophylla, described originally from Costa Rica from sterile material and now known from Costa Rica to Ecuador, is here provided with a full description including staminate and pistillate flowers, as well as fruits.
10.2307/3393571| Two new species of Calceolaria L. (Scrophulariaceae) from the tropical Andes are described: Calceolaria rhombifolia Molau from northern Peru and C. urticifolia Molau from northern Bolivia, belonging to the sections Rotundifoliae and Urticopsis, respectively, within subgenus Calceolaria. This paper is the first addendum to the 1988 monograph in Flora Neotropica. /// Se describen dos nuevas especies de Calceolaria L. (Scrophulariaceae) de los Andes tropicales: Calceolaria rhombifolia Molau del norte de Per y C. urticifolia Molau del norte de Bolivia. Pertenecen a las secciones Rotundifoliae y Urticopsis, respectivamente, dentro del subgnero Calceolaria. Este artculo es la primera adenda a la monografa de Flora Neotropica de 1988. 
10.2307/3391957|Gladiolus somalensis is a new species restricted to the limestone escarpments of the Sanaag and Bari Regions of northeastern Somalia. Although Gladiolus is the largest genus of Iridaceae subfamily Ixioideae and has some 83 species in tropical Africa, only 4 species occur in Somalia and only G. somalensis is endemic there. The affinities of this new species are uncertain, but the relatively small flowers with a short perianth tube appear to place the species in subgenus Gladiolus, a taxon that is most diverse and speciose in southern Africa.
10.2307/3392079|Comparison of the types of Odontochilus rotundifolius Blatter and Aenhenrya agastyamalayana Gopalan establishes their conspecifity. An emended and amplified description of Aenhenrya is provided, and a new combination, A. rotundifolia (Blatter) Sathish & F. Rasmussen, is made.
20406260|One new subspecies and one new variety of Pedicularis L. from the Hengduan Mountains region in southwestern China are described. The main diagnostic features of the taxa are compared with closely related taxa, and distributions and morphological photos are provided. The new taxa are: Pedicularis gyrorhyncha subsp. glabrisepala H. Wang & W. B. Yu and P. siphonantha var. stictochila H. Wang & W. B. Yu.
10.2307/3391808|A new species, Senecio aetfatensis, is described from the Chimanimani Mountains of eastern Zimbabwe.
40960826|A new species of Acanthaceae, Strobilanthes biocullata Y. F. Deng & J. R. I. Wood, from China, is described and illustrated. The species is found in Hunan, Guangxi, and Guangdong provinces, where it grows on rocks along streams. It clearly belongs to the group of species placed by Bremekamp in Semnostachya Bremek., but differs from all these by two swollen bulges on the dorsal surface of the longacuminate bracts. Strobilanthes biocullata is the first Chinese species of Strobilanthes Blume reported to have a plietesial life history.
10.2307/3391676|The recent completion of the Acanthaceae treatment for the Flora of the Venezuelan Guayana has necessitated a new name in the genus Staurogyne, a new combination in Anisacanthus, and the recognition of two undescribed species of Odontonema, based on relatively recent collections.
3393321|Ledermanniella prasina J. Schenk & D. W. Thomas in the family Podostemaceae, sub-genus Ledermanniella, is proposed as a new species. It is known only from its type, collected at a single waterfall in Cameroon. The ecology, morphology, and variation among individuals are discussed. The new species is compared to the morphologically similar L. bifurcata, L. bowlingii, L. guineensis, L. jaegeri, L. minutissima, and L. monandra. Illustrations and a key to the monostaminate species in the subgenus are provided.
10.2307/3393512| Biophytum kayae, B. lourteigiae, and B. ottohuberi from Bolvar and Amazonas states in Venezuela are newly described and illustrated. All are members of section Dendroidea Knuth and have sessile or shortly pedunculate inflorescences. Biophytum ottohuberi is a distinctive, high-elevation tepui endemic with small leaves and rigidly coriaceous, thick-margined leaflets; B. lourteigiae and B. kayae are both lowland species on predominantly white-sand substrates. Biophytum lourteigiae is a taller shrub than B. kayae and has longer, less coriaceous leaves and more pubescent capsules. Too few flowering specimens were available to assess whether any of these species are heterostylous, but the flowers that were examined have their stigmas and two sets of stamens positioned in a way that is consistent with tristyly. 
10.2307/3392209|Three new Andean species of Solanum sect. Geminata are described: S. youngii from Peru and Ecuador, S. quebradense from Venezuela, and S. habrocaulon from Peru. Relationships within section Geminata are discussed, and the species are illustrated.
10.2307/3391695|Zapoteca sousae (Leguminosae, Mimosoideae), a new species from Oaxaca and Colima, Mexico, is described and illustrated. It appears to be closely related to the widespread and highly variable Zapoteca portoricensis, from which it differs primarily by stipule, flower, and leaf characters. /// Se describe e ilustra Zapoteca sousae (Leguminosae, Mimosoideae), una especie nueva de Oaxaca y Colima, Mxico. Esta especie parece estar ntimamente relacionada con Z. portoricensis, de la cual difiere principalmente en caracteres de las estpulas, flores, y hojas.
3393501|In the context of the present authors' revision of the Hippocastanaceae for the forthcoming Flora of China, Volume 12, two Chinese endemic taxa, Aesculus chinensis Bunge and A. wilsonii Rehder, are treated as conspecific. The latter taxon, represented by wild plants, is here recombined as A. chinensis var. wilsonii (Rehder) Turland & N. H. Xia, comb. et stat. nov. Aesculus chinensis var. chinensis, with A. chekiangensis Hu & W. P. Fang (A. chinensis var. chekiangensis (Hu & W. P. Fang) W. P. Fang) in synonymy, is represented by cultivated plants and is unknown with certainty in a wild state.
20406323|Agropyron panormitanum Parlatore var. heterophyllum Bornmller ex Melderis (Poaceae, Triticeae) is transferred to the genus Roegneria K. Koch based on its ploidy and genome. The taxon was described from Lebanon and is recognized at species rank as the new combination R. heterophylla (Bornmller ex Melderis) C. Yen, J. L. Yang & B. R. Baum. The taxon is hexaploid, with the StStStStYY genome, and therefore its taxonomic relationship is better reflected and assessed within the genus Roegneria, a genus with genomic constitution StStYY or StStStStYY. Furthermore, it should be treated as a new species rather than as a variety because the two have separate and independent gene pools as demonstrated by crossing experiments.
10.2307/3391529|Three new species of Mouriri from midwestern and southwestern Colombia and eastern Brazil are described and illustrated, as is a new subspecies of Mouriri grandiflora from western Amazonia. Mouriri tessmannii, its type and only known specimen destroyed at Berlin, has been recollected and is redescribed and illustrated.
3393462| Una nueva especie, Marsdenia hiriartiana es descrita e ilustrada. Esta especie es similar a Marsdenia macrophylla (Humboldt & Bonpland ex Schultes) E. Fournier y M. altissima (Jacquin) Dugand pero se distingue de la primera por presentar hojas suborbiculares a orbiculares y folculos entre 22 y 30 cm de largo, y de la segunda por ser glabra y tener una inflorescencia laxa y el tubo y los lbulos de la corola ms o menos del mismo tamao. /// A new species, Marsdenia hiriartiana, is described and illustrated. This species is similar to Marsdenia macrophylla (Humboldt & Bonpland ex Schultes) E. Fournier, and M. altissima (Jacquin) Dugand, but it is distinguished from the first by its suborbicular to orbicular leaves and follicles 22 to 30 cm long, and from the second because it is glabrous and has a lax inflorescence and a corolla tube approximately equaling the corolla lobes. 
43289102|The taxonomic study of Calyptranthes Sw. (Myrtaceae) in preparation of an annotated checklist, has required a thorough literature survey, extensive visits to herbaria worldwide, and analysis of type collections online. Resulting information has indicated the necessity of lectotypification for several species, nine of which are addressed here: C. fastigiata O. Berg, C. glabrescens Krug & Urb., C. kiaerskovii Krug & Urb., C. longifolia O. Berg, C. multiflora Poepp. ex O. Berg, C. obovata Kiaersk., C. pteropoda O. Berg, C. ruiziana O. Berg, C. schiedeana O. Berg, and C. tetraptera O. Berg.
10.2307/3392256|A new species is described and illustrated in the previously monotypic genus Brachynema (Olacaceae). Brachynema axillare is known from the base of Sierra de la Neblina in southern Venezuela and northern Brazil, as well as in Amazonian Peru; it differs from B. ramiflorum Bentham in its axillary inflorescences, non-striped corolla tube, glabrous corolla lobes, and mostly 4-merous flowers. /// Se describe una nueva especie en el gnero Brachynema (Olacaceae), previamente considerado monotpico. Brachynema axillare se conoce de la base de la Sierra de la Neblina en el sur de Venezuela y en el norte de Brasil, as como en la Amazona peruana. Difiere de B. ramiflorum en sus inflorescencias axilares, tubo de la corola no rayado, lbulos de la corola glabros, y las flores mayormente 4-meras.
10.2307/3392156|Bauhinia wuzhengyii, a new species from Yunnan, China, is described and illustrated. Its relationship within the section Loxocalyx is discussed. The section Loxocalyx Bentham, containing the new species, is reinstated based on re-assessment of the obliquely campanulate hypanthium and free gynophore.
23018465|The new species Aspidistra pingtangensis S. Z. He, W. F. Xu & Q. W. Sun (Ruscaceae) is described and illustrated from Pingtang County, Guizhou Province, China. The new species is characterized by an urceolate, milk-white perianth with five or six blunt keels externally, stamen filaments that are ca. 1.2 mm long with the stamens inserted in the top third of the perianth tube, and stigmas that are ca. 4 mm diam. This contrasts with the related species A. fenghuangensis K. Y. Lang and A. urceolata F. T. Wang & K. Y. Lang. The former is characterized by an urceolate, pale yellow perianth, stamen filaments that are ca. 0.5 mm with the stamens inserted at the middle of perianth tube, and stigmas that are ca. 6 mm diam.; the latter is characterized by an urceolate, pale violet-red perianth with many purple speckles, stamen filaments that are ca. 0.2 mm with the stamens inserted at the base of the perianth tube, and stigmas that are ca. 1.5 mm diam. The new species can be classified into Aspidistra Ker Gawl. sect. Aspidistra ser. Fimbriatae G. Z. Li.
10.2307/3393381|This paper comprises nomenclatural changes needed for the Flora of China account of Poaceae tribe Paniceae. The new combinations Digitaria fujianensis and Pseudoraphis sordida are proposed for nomenclatural reasons. The varietal combination Ottochloa nodosa var. micrantha is validated and lectotypified. Pseudoraphis balansae is lectotypified, and P. longipaleacea is placed in synonymy. Urochloa cordata is reduced to synonymy under U. setigera. The three species of the genus Pseudoraphis occurring in China are reviewed and a key is provided. African specimens previously considered conspecific with Asian Urochloa setigera are shown to belong to a different species, Urochloa trichopodioides, which is lectotypified.
10.2307/3392044|Capparis (subg. Calyptrocalyx) muco, an arborescent species from dry tropical semideciduous and deciduous forests northeast and south of Barcelona, Anzotegui, in northern Venezuela and several islands in Lago de Guri, Bolvar, in eastern Venezuela, is newly described and differ entiated by a dense, soft, thin and slender, loosely stellate-echinate leaf pubescence [consisting of simply constructed, sessile, 2-rayed, stellate hairs (1.0-1.4 mm diam.) grading to echinate and complex multirayed, multiangulate "candelabra" or "palmoid" hairs on multiseriate stalks] from the related but tightly stellate-echinate C. leprieurii-C. maroniensis complex of the Guianas, in which the hairs are minute (0.2-0.3 mm diam.) and distantly dispersed. The large, more or less spherical fruits of "Muco" contain pulp that is eaten by both monkeys and people. Illustrations and a distribution map are provided. /// Se describe Capparis (subg. Calyptrocalyx) muco, una especie arborescente de los bosques secos tropicales deciduos y semideciduos del noreste y sur de Barcelona, Anzotegui al norte de Venezuela y de algunas islas del Lago de Guri, Bolvar al este de Venezuela. Esta nueva especie se distingue en hojas poseer con una pubescencia laxa de pelos estrellado-equinados suaves y delgados [formada por pelos simples, sesiles, con dos rayos, estrellados (1.0-1.4 mm de dim.) graduando a pelos ms complejos equinados, multiradiados, multiangulados "candelabro" o en forma de palma sobre un estipite multiseriado] en comparacin con sus afines C. leprieurii-C. maroniensis del complejo de Las Guayanas, donde los pelos estrellado-equinados estan adpresos, los que son muy pequeos (0.2-0.3 mm de dim.) y muy dispersos. Los frutos grandes subesfricos del "Muco" son comestibles. Se incluyen ilustraciones y un mapa de distribucin.
10.2307/3392957|Acceptance of current generic concepts in Myrtaceae results in the proposal of 14 new combinations and 1 new name in Syzygium Gaertner. Those taxa from Madagascar and Mayotte originally described in Eugenia L. that have terminal inflorescences and calyptrate corollas should be accommodated within Syzygium. Complete synonymy and typification are given for all accepted taxa. /// Les nouveaux concepts gnriques chez les Myrtaceae nous amnent  proposer 14 combinaisons nouvelles et un nouveau nom dans le genre Syzygium Gaertner. Ces taxa de Madagascar et Mayotte, originellement dcrits dans Eugenia L. et qui possdent des inflorescences terminales et des corolles en calyptre, doivent tre placs dans le genre Syzygium. La synonymie complte et la typification sont donnes pour tous les taxa accepts.
23018438|A new species, Isoetes libanotica Musselman, Bolin & R. D. Bray (Isoetaceae, Lycophyta), is described from Akkar District of northern Lebanon. It is a seasonal terrestrial species of basaltic soils, diploid (2n = 22), with complete velum coverage. Megaspore diameter ranges from 338 to 477 m with remote, low tuberculate ornamentation and a low to obsolete equatorial girdle; microspore length ranges from 25 to 30 m, with echinate ornamentation. At the type locality of I. libanotica, two other Isoetes L. species occur sympatrically. These superficially similar Isoetes species can be differentiated from I. libanotica using megaspore characters; I. duriei Bory has larger alveolate megaspores and I. olympica A. Braun has a prominent equatorial girdle.
10.2307/3392223|A new species, Chaetocalyx longiloba Rudd, from the Department of Amazonas, Peru, is proposed. Similarities to C. weberbaueri Harms and C. latisiliqua (Poiret) Bentham ex Hemsley, as well as distinguishing characters of C. longiloba, are described.
23259419|Las especies del grupo Cheilanthes dichotoma Sw. (Pteridaceae, Cheilantheae) forman un grupo natural, reconocido por evidencias morfolgicas, cercano al gnero Adiantopsis Fe. Los anlisis moleculares basados en el gen del cloroplasto rbcL, tambin muestran la inclusin de estas especies en el clado de Adiantopsis. Dos nombres, C. orbignyana Kuhn y C. recurvata Baker, se transfieren a Adiantopsis como A. orbignyana (Kuhn) Ponce & Scataglini y A. recurvata (Baker) Ponce & Scataglini. El reconocimiento dentro de este gnero de otros dos nombres, A. dichotoma (Sw.) T. Moore y A. tweediana (Hook.) Prez-Link & Hickey, tambin se apoya en este estudio. The species of the Cheilanthes dichotoma Sw. group (Pteridaceae, Cheilantheae) form a natural group that is morphologically close to the genus Adiantopsis Fe. Molecular analyses using the chloroplast rbcL gene further support the inclusion of these species in the Adiantopsis clade. Two names, C. orbignyana Kuhn and C. recurvata Baker, are transferred to Adiantopsis as A. orbignyana (Kuhn) Ponce & Scataglini and A. recurvata (Baker) Ponce & Scataglini. The other two names, A. dichotoma (Sw.) T. Moore and A. tweediana (Hook.) Prez-Link & Hickey, are also supported and recognized within this genus.
10.2307/3391746| The new species Psychotria hamiltoniana C.M. Taylor is described based on recent collections from the Caribbean coast of Nicaragua; this species is related to P. neillii C. W. Hamilton & Dwyer. /// Se describe la especie nueva Psychotria hamiltoniana C. M. Taylor basada en colecciones recientes de la costa caribea de Nicaragua; es afn a P. neillii C. W. Hamilton & Dwyer. 
20406199|A new species of Habranthus Herbert (Amaryllidaceae) is described and illustrated. Habranthus sanavirone Roitman, J. A. Castillo, G. Tourn & Uria is found in sandy soils of central Argentina. The new species resembles H. robustus Herbert in size but can be easily distinguished by the absence of bulblets, its glaucous leaves, and its recurved light yellow tepals, with this feature not found in any other species of the genus.
10.2307/3391461|Lagenocarpus venezuelensis Davidse is proposed as a new name for the later homonym Lagenocarpus amazonicus Davidse.
10.2307/3392218|Two new species from the interandean valleys of Bolivia, Parajubaea sunkha and Syagrus yungasensis (Palmae), and a new variety, Parajubaea torallyi var. microcarpa (Palmae), are described and illustrated. /// Se describen e ilustran dos nuevas especies de Palmae de los valles interandinos de Bolivia, Parajubaea sunkha y Syagrus yungasensis; tambin se describe la variedad Parajubaea torallyi var. microcarpa.
20406336|Commelina lukei Faden (Commelinaceae) is newly described from southeastern Kenya, also distributed in northeastern Tanzania and Madagascar. It is distinguished from C. kotschyi Hasskarl by its larger, less undulate-margined leaves, larger spathes, and different distribution and ecology; from C. imberbis Ehrenberg ex Hasskarl and C. mascarenica C. B. Clarke by its capsule shape, appendaged seeds, and consistently clasping leaf bases; and from all three species by the presence of solely acicular hairs on the adaxial lamina midrib. Commelina milneredheadii Faden is newly described from Zambia, also in Angola and Democratic Republic of the Congo. It differs from C. scaposa C. B. Clarke by the presence of leaves on the flowering shoots and larger spathes; from C. hockii De Wildeman by its narrower leaves and much smaller, striped spathes; from C. welwitschii C. B. Clarke by its tuberous roots, fewer-veined spathes, and several- to many-flowered upper cincinnus; and from all three species by its blue flowers and seeds with a dorsal ridge.
40960838|Several Neotropical shrubs and trees variously classified in Psychotria L. subg. Heteropsychotria Steyerm., Palicourea Aubl., and Coussarea Aubl. (Rubiaceae) share persistent stipules, apparently nocturnal flowers, well-developed white corollas with long tubes, and well-developed drupaceous fruits with two plano-convex pyrenes that generally have rather thin walls and are dorsally smooth or angled; additionally, most of these species have reduced stipules and relatively large fruits. The separation of Psychotria and Coussarea has been problematic at least in Central America, but removal here of six species from Coussarea leaves that genus characterized morphologically by 4-merous flowers and fruits with a single seed. Recent morphological and molecular surveys indicate that Palicourea and most species of Psychotria subg. Heteropsychotria comprise a single evolutionary group. These nocturnally flowering species all have the morphological features of Palicourea in this expanded circumscription and are here transferred to Palicourea along with three additional species from Mexico and Guatemala with relatively large, apparently hummingbird-pollinated flowers. Corresponding new combinations and names are published for several of these: Palicourea alajuelensis C. M. Taylor is based on Coussarea austin-smithii Standl.; Palicourea beachiana & Hammel; Palicourea breedlovei (Lorence) Lorence is based on Psychotria breedlovei Lorence; Palicourea calidicola (C. M. Taylor) C. M. Taylor is based on Psychotria calidicola C. M. Taylor; Palicourea chrysocalymma (L. O. Williams) C. M. Taylor is based on Psychotria chrysocalymma L. O. Williams; Palicourea diguana (Standl. ex Steyerm.) C. M. Taylor is based on Cephaelis diguana Standl. ex Steyerm.; Palicourea eurycarpa (Standl.) C. M. Taylor is based on Psychotria eurycarpa Standl.; Palicourea faxlucens (Lorence & Dwyer) Lorence is based on Psychotria faxlucens Lorence & Dwyer; Palicourea grandifructa (C. M. Taylor) C. M. Taylor is based on Coussarea grandifructa C. M. Taylor; Palicourea heydei (Standl.) Lorence is based on Psychotria heydei Standl.; Palicourea hondensis (Standl.) C. M. Taylor is based on Psychotria hondensis Standl.; Palicourea mediocris (Standl. & Steyerm.) Lorence is based on Coussarea mediocris Standl. & Steyerm.; Palicourea megalantha (Lorence) Lorence is based on Psychotria megalantha Lorence; Palicourea nebulosa (Dwyer) C. M. Taylor is based on Coussarea nebulosa Dwyer; Palicourea neopurpusii C. M. Taylor is based on Psychotria purpusii Standl.; Palicourea psychotrioides Taylor psychotrioides C. M. Taylor & Hammel; Palicourea roseocremea (Dwyer) C. M. Taylor is based on Coussarea roseocremea Dwyer; Palicourea sousae (Lorence & Dwyer) Lorence is based on Psychotria sousae Lorence & Dwyer; Palicourea tetragona (Donn. Sm.) C. M. Taylor & Lorence is based on Cephaelis tetragona Donn. Sm.; Palicourea thornei (Lorence) Lorence is based on Psychotria thornei Lorence; Palicourea tutensis (Dwyer) C. M. Taylor is based on Psychotria tutensis Dwyer; and Palicourea umbelliformis (Dwyer & M. V. Hayden) C. M. Taylor is based on Psychotria umbelliformis Dwyer & M. V. Hayden. The new species Palicourea pereziana M. Taylor is similar to these other nocturnally flowering species, and separated from Palicourea roseocremea by its smaller flowers and distribution in southern Costa Rica. Neotypes are designated for Palicourea domingensis (Jacq.) DC. (Psychotria domingensis Jacq.) and Palicourea gardenioides (Scheidw.) Hemsl. (Rhodostoma gardenioides Scheidw.). Varios arbustos y rboles neotropicales clasificados en Psychotria L. subg. Heteropsychotria Steyerm., Palicourea Aubl. y Coussarea Aubl. (Rubiaceae) comparten estpulas persistentes, flores aparentemente nocturnas, corolas blancas con el tubo bien desarrollado y frutos bien desarrollados con dos pirenos plano-convexos, que generalmente tienen paredes algo delgadas y son dorsalmente lisos o angulados; adems la mayora de estas especies tienen estpulas bastante reducidas y frutos relativamente grandes. La separacin de Psychotria y Coussarea ha sido problemtica por lo menos en Amrica Central, pero la eliminacin aqu de seis especies de Coussarea deja ese gnero consistentemente caracterizado morfolgicamente por flores 4-meras y frutos con una sola semilla. Estudios morfolgicos y moleculares recientes indican que Palicourea y la mayora de las especies de Psychotria subg. Heteropsychotria constituyen un solo grupo evolutivo. Estas especies con floracin nocturna tienen todas las caractersticas morfolgicas de Palicourea en esta circunscripcin ampliada, y se encuentran aqu tratadas en ese gnero adems de tres especies adicionales procedentes de Mxico y Guatemala con flores grandes aparentemente polinizadas por colibres. Las correspondientes nuevas combinaciones y nombres se presentan para algunas: Palicourea alajuelensis C. M. Taylor se basa en Coussarea austin-smithii Standl.; Palicourea beachiana C. M. Taylor se basa en Coussarea nigrescens C. M. Taylor & Hammel; Palicourea breedlovei (Lorence) Lorence se basa en Psychotria breedlovei Lorence; Palicourea calidicola (C. M. Taylor) M. Taylor se basa en Psychotria calidicola M. Taylor; Palicourea chrysocalymma (L. O. Williams) C. M. Taylor se basa en Psychotria chrysocalymma L. O. Williams; Palicourea diguana (Standl. ex Steyerm.) Taylor se basa en Cephaelis diguana Standl. ex Steyerm.; Palicourea eurycarpa (Standl.) Taylor se basa en Psychotria eurycarpa Standl.; Palicourea faxlucens (Lorence & Dwyer) Lorence se basa en Psychotria faxlucens Lorence & Dwyer; Palicourea grandifructa (C. M. Taylor) C. M. Taylor se basa en Coussarea grandifructa Taylor; Palicourea heydei (Standl.) Lorence se basa en Psychotria heydei Standl.; Palicourea hondensis (Standl.) Taylor se basa en Psychotria hondensis Standl.; Palicourea mediocris (Standl. & Steyerm.) Lorence se basa en Coussarea mediocris Standl. & Steyerm.; Palicourea megalantha (Lorence) Lorence se basa en Psychotria megalantha Lorence; Palicourea nebulosa (Dwyer) C. M. Taylor se basa en Coussarea nebulosa Dwyer; Palicourea neopurpusii C. M. Taylor se basa en Psychotria purpusii Standl.; Palicourea psychotrioides (C. M. Taylor & Hammel) Taylor se basa en Coussarea psychotrioides C. M. Taylor & Hammel; Palicourea roseocremea (Dwyer) C. M. Taylor se basa en Coussarea roseocremea Dwyer; Palicourea sousae (Lorence & Dwyer) Lorence se basa en Psychotria sousae Lorence & Dwyer; Palicourea tetragona (Donn. Sm.) C. M. Taylor & Lorence se basa en Cephaelis tetragona Donn. Sm.; Palicourea thornei (Lorence) Lorence se basa en Psychotria thornei Lorence; Palicourea tutensis (Dwyer) C. M. Taylor se basa en Psychotria tutensis Dwyer; Palicourea umbelliformis (Dwyer & M. V. Hayden) C. M. Taylor se basa en Psychotria umbelliformis Dwyer & M. V. Hayden. La nueva especie Palicourea pereziana C. M. Taylor es similar a estas otras plantas con flores nocturnas, y se separa de Palicourea roseocremea por sus flores ms pequeas y distribucin en el sur de Costa Rica. Neotipos se designan para Palicourea domingensis (Jacq.) DC (Psychotria domingensis Jacq.) y Palicourea gardenioides (Scheidw.) Hemsl. (Rhodostoma gardenioides Scheidw.).
3393306|Draba bartholomewii (Brassicaceae), a new species from Qinghai, China, is described and illustrated. The monotypic genera Coelonema and Nesocrambe are reduced to the synonymy of Draba and Hemicrambe, respectively. The new combinations Alyssum dahuricum, Draba draboides, Hemicrambe socotrana, Lepidium coronopus, and Pegaeophyton purii are proposed.
10.2307/3392989|Aristolochia longispathulata, a new species from the "Mata Atlntica," is described and illustrated. The new species belongs to Aristolochia subser. Hexandrae F. Gonzlez. It is easily recognized by flowers that are slightly curved and have a long, spatulate, fimbriate limb, which is pale green on the inner surface. Aristolochia longispathulata is similar to A. arcuata and A. rumicifolia, from eastern and southeastern Brazil. Its floral morphology also resembles that of A. peltata, from the West Indies, and A. sessilifolia, from southern Brazil, Argentina, and Uruguay. /// Neste trabalho uma nova especie de Aristolochiaceae da Mata Atlntica, Bahia, Brasil, A. longispathulata,  descrita e illustrada. Esta espcie pertence a Aristolochia subser. Hexandrae F. Gonzlez. E facilmente reconhecida por apresentar suas flores levemente curvadas, com o limbo longo, espatulado e fimbriado, alm de possuir a face adaxial atipicamente alvo-esverdeada. Aristolochia longispathulata  semelhante a A. arcuata e A. rumicifolia, espcies da regio oriental e sul-oriental do Brasil, embora a morfologia floral desta espcie assemelha-se a de A. peltata, das Indias Ocidentais, ou da espcie A. sessilifolia, do sul do Brasil, Argentina e Uruguai.
3393467| Two undescribed species were detected while conducting a phylogenetic study of Heterotaxis (Orchidaceae: Maxillariinae): H.fritzii Ojeda & Carnevali from western Ecuador and H. schultesii Ojeda & G. A. Romero from the Amazon basin of Colombia and Brazil. These two species are described and illustrated, and their affinities are discussed. The first novelty is related to Heterotaxis sessilis (Swartz) F. Barros but the leaves are triquetrous, fleshier, and much narrower, while H. schultesii is similar to H. villosa (Barbosa Rodrigues) F. Barros, but with narrower, more coriaceous leaves and orange-red flowers. Six species are transferred to Heterotaxis: H. discolor (Loddiges ex Lindley) Ojeda & Carnevali, H. equitans (Schlechter) Ojeda & Carnevali, H. maleolens (Schlechter) Ojeda & Carnevali, H. microiridifolia (D. E. Bennett & E. A. Christenson) Ojeda & Carnevali, H. santanae (Carnevali & I. Ramrez) Ojeda & Carnevali, and H. valenzuelana (A. Richard) Ojeda & Carnevali. In addition, a lectotype and an epitype are designated for Camaridium equitans Schlechter, while lectotypes are chosen for Camaridium vandiforme Schlechter and Dicrypta irisphyta Barbosa Rodrigues. Lastly, Maxillaria valenzuelana subsp. angustifolia J. T. Atwood is treated for the first time as a synonym of Heterotaxis valenzuelana. /// Se detectaron dos especies nuevas en un estudio filogentico de Heterotaxis: H. fritzii, de Ecuador occidental y Heterotaxis schultesii, de la cuenca amaznica de Brasil y Colombia. Estas dos nuevas especies son descritas, ilustradas y sus afinidades discutidas. La primera novedad est relacionada con Heterotaxis sessilis (Swartz) F. Barros pero las hojas son trquetras, mas carnosas y angostas, mientras que H. schultesii es similar a H. villosa (Barbosa Rodrigues) F. Barros, pero con hojas ms angostas y coriceas y flores naranja rojizo. Otras seis especies son transferidas a Heterotaxis: H. discolor (Loddiges ex Lindley) Ojeda & Carnevali, H. equitans (Schlechter) Ojeda & Carnevali, H. maleolens (Schlechter) Ojeda & Carnevali, H. micro-iridifolia (D. E. Bennett & Christenson) Ojeda & Carnevali, H. santanae (Carnevali & I. Ramrez) Ojeda & Carnevali y H. valenzuelana (A. Richard) Ojeda & Carnevali. Adicionalmente, se selecciona un lectotipo y un epitipo para Camaridium equitans Schlechter y lectotipos para Camaridium vandiforme Schlechter y Dicrypta irisphyta Barbosa Rodrigues. Por ltimo, Maxillaria valenzuelana subsp. angustifolia J. T. Atwood es tratada por primera vez como sinnimo de Heterotaxis valenzuelana. 
10.2307/3391759|A new species endemic to Bolivia, Solanum maternum, is described. Solanum maternum belongs to a group of taxa formerly recognized as the genus Cyphomandra. Solanum maternum is morphologically very similar to the tree tomato, Solanum betaceum, and may be its closest wild relative.
10.2307/3391415|Thirteen new combinations are provided for Peruvian species of Amaryllidaceae: Hippeastrum bukasovii (Vargas) Gereau & Brako, Hippeastrum cuzcoense (Vargas) Gereau & Brako, Hippeastrum ferreyrae (Traub) Gereau & Brako, Hippeastrum hugoi (Vargas) Gereau & Brako, Hippeastrum intiflorum (Vargas) Gereau & Brako, Hippeastrum leonardii (Vargas) Gereau & Brako, Hippeastrum macbridei (Vargas) Gereau & Brako, Hippeastrum variegatum (Vargas) Gereau & Brako, Ismene hawkesii (Vargas) Gereau & Meerow, Ismene morrisonii (Vargas) Gereau & Meerow, Ismene ringens (Ruiz & Pavn) Gereau & Meerow, Ismene sublimis (Herbert) Gereau & Meerow, and Leptochiton helianthus (Ravenna) Gereau & Meerow.
3393549|The new combination Laennecia araneosa (Compositae: Astereae) is validated, and this species is placed in section Laennecia. Laennecia is newly documented in the West Indies.
10.2307/3392970|Three new sections of Phyllanthus are described: section Antipodanthus (subg. Isocladus; type P. dictyospermus Mller Argoviensis), 15 species of South America and Australia; section Pityrocladus (subg. Emblica; type P. symphoricarpoides Kunth), 5 species of tropical America; and section Hylaeanthus (subg. Conami; type P. attenuatus Miquel), 6 species of tropical America. Two new species are described: P. cuatrecasanus (sect. Pityrocladus) and P. callejasii (sect. Hylaeanthus). A new subgenus with unique pollen structure, Cyclanthera (type P. lindenianus Baillon), is proposed; it includes sections Callitrichoides and Cyclanthera.
10.2307/3391729|A new species, Monochilus obovatus P. D. Cantino, is described from Gois, Brazil. It differs from the only previously known species of Monochilus in leaf shape, calyx size, and corolla shape.
40960830|Three new combinations are proposed for Codonopsis convolvulacea Kurz subsp. grey-wilsonii (J. M. H. Shaw) D. Y. Hong, C. foetens Hook. f. & Thomson subsp. nervosa (Chipp) D. Y. Hong, pilosula (Franch.) Nannf. subsp. tangshen (Oliv.)D. Y. Hong, with changes in rank for all three names. Nine specific, three subspecific, and seven varietal names are reduced to synonymy for the first time in the present paper. In addition, the following names are lectotypified: C. benthamii Hook. f. & Thomson, C. bicolor Nannf., C. convolvulacea subsp. forrestii (Diels) D. Y. Hong & L. M. Ma, C. foetens Hook. f. & Thomson, C. foetens subsp. nervosa (Chipp) D. Y. Hong, C. macrocalyx Diels, macrocalyx var. coerulescens Hand.-Mazz., C. macrocalyx var. parviloba J. Anthony, modesta Nannf., rotundifolia Benth. in Royle, and Campanumoea pilosula Franch. The name Codonopsis convolvulacea is neotypified.
10.2307/3391548|A new Panamanian species, Gurania sessiliflora, is described. The species appears most similar to Gurania coccinea Cogn. Description of G. sesiliflora brings the number of Gurania species in Mesoamerica to seven. A key to the Mesoamerican species of Gurania is given, followed by a list with synonyms and distributions in Mesoamerica.
40300951|Se describe una nueva especie de Cryptantha Lehmann ex Fischer & C. A. Meyer (Boraginaceae), C. marioricardiana Teillier. sta tiene la particularidad de ser un arbusto camfito, un carcter muy poco frecuente en el gnero. La especie crece en Chile, en la costa del desierto de Atacama (28S), en la Regin de Atacama (III). /// A new species of Cryptantha Lehmann ex Fischer & C. A. Meyer (Boraginaceae), C. marioricardiana Teillier, is described. The new species is a chamaephytic shrub, a very infrequent character in the genus. This species grows in Chile, in the coastal Atacama Desert (III Region de Atacama, 28S).
10.2307/3391453|Based on work toward a revision of Aralia (Araliaceae), three new taxa are described: Aralia chinensis L. var. longibractea, A. elata (Miquel) Seemann var. ryukyuensis, and A. gintungensis C. Y. Wu var. multinervis. The following nomenclatural changes are made: A. debilis J. Wen, nom. nov., A. dasyphylloides (Handel-Mazzetti) J. Wen, comb. et stat. nov., A. elata (Miquel) Seemann var. inermis (Yanagita) J. Wen, comb. nov., A. elata (Miquel) Seemann var. mandshurica (Ruprecht & Maximowicz) J. Wen, comb. et stat. nov., and A. bipinnata Blanco var. apoensis (Elmer) J. Wen, comb. et stat. nov. A taxonomic key to the varieties of A. elata is provided.
3393330| Dubautia kalalauensis B. G. Baldwin & G. D. Carr is a newly described species of the Hawaiian silversword alliance (Compositae, Madiinae) from wet forests in the vicinity of the rim of Kalalau Valley, Kaua'i. The taxon has been treated within the circumscription of D. laxa Hooker & Arnott subsp. hirsuta (Hillebrand) G. D. Carr, but differs by having a more openly branching habit, softer leaf surfaces, greenish cream (rather than yellow) corollas, less glandular corolla tubes and throats, and longer pappus elements. Based on molecular phylogenetic data, D. kalalauensis is less closely related to the widespread D. laxa than to other Kaua'i endemics, including D. imbricata H. St. John & G. D. Carr, D. kenwoodii G. D. Carr, D. laevigata A. Gray, D. syndetica G. D. Carr & Lorence, and D. waialealae Rock. Unlike all previously described taxa of Dubautia Gaudichaud-Beaupr, D. kalalauensis combines opposite leaves, eglandular peduncles, receptacular bracts throughout the heads (one per floret), greenish cream corollas, and pappi of setiform scales ca. 4 mm long. 
10.2307/3393129|During agronomic evaluation of introduced accessions of Stylosanthes Swartz in Colombia and Queensland, Australia, a genotype differing in morphology, chromosome number, and genetic markers was discovered. The new species Stylosanthes seabrana is closely related to S. scabra Vogel and has been collected in Bahia, Brazil. Two cultivars, 'Primar' and 'Unica,' of this species now newly recognized were released in Queensland, Australia, in 1996 for use as pasture legumes.
20406236|Se describe Magnolia vazquezii Cruz Durn & K. Vega (Magnoliaceae), una especie nueva del Estado de Guerrero, Mxico. Esta entidad taxonmica slo se ha colectado en el bosque mesfilo de montaa del Estado de Guerrero y es afn a M. schiedeana Schlechtendal, pero difiere de esta ltima por presentar estpulas rojas, brcteas pubescentes, pednculo pubescente y ms largo, ptalos de tamao y forma diferente, gineceo oblongo y estigmas rectos. Se incluye una clave para distinguir las especies afines a este nuevo taxn, as como una ilustracin del mismo. /// Magnolia vazquezii Cruz Durn & K. Vega (Magnoliaceae) is described as a new species from the state of Guerrero, Mexico. It has been collected only in cloud forest in the state of Guerrero and appears similar to M. schiedeana Schlechtendal, but differs in its red stipules, pubescent bracts, pubescent and longer peduncles, longer and differentshaped petals, and an oblong gynoecium with erect stigmas. The new taxon is illustrated and a dichotomous key distinguishes it from related taxa.
10.2307/3392998|We describe and illustrate Microsorum whiteheadii (Polypodiaceae), endemic to limestone outcrops in Sumatra. It appears related to the widespread and polymorphic M. punctatum (L.) Copeland but differs from that species by the shorter-creeping rhizomes, more succulent, thicker, very dark green, oblanceolate blades, prominent hydathodes adaxially, and less visible venation.
10.2307/3391958|A number of species of Syringa are reviewed, and series Pubescentes is revised. At infraspecific rank, the following new combinations in Syringa from Asia are proposed: S. komarowii subsp. reflexa, S. oblata subsp. dilatata, S. reticulata subsp. amurensis, S. reticulata subsp. pekinensis, and S. pubescens subsp. microphylla var. potaninii. Identification keys are presented.
10.2307/3392117|Taraxacum altune D. T. Zhai & Z. X. An is reduced to synonymy of Crepis minuta Kitamura.
27765204|A new species, Alyssum misirdalianum Orcan & Binzet (Brassicaceae), is described from southern Anatolia, Turkey. The new species is restricted to southern Anatolia, in the southern part of Mersin Province. The morphological characters (oblanceolate leaves, obovate and glabrous petals, and ovate siliculae, 67  34.5 mm) support its placement in Alyssum L. sect. Gamosepalum (Haussknecht) Dudley, and the species appears to be most closely related to A. corningii Dudley.
3393423|The new genus Kontumia (Polypodiaceae?) and its type species Kontumia heterophylla from Vietnam are described and illustrated. Kontumia is distinguished from Gymnogrammitis by its scandent habit, dimorphic leaves, clathrate transparent scales on the rhizome and petiole bases, and aspects of leaf morphology. Also, a new species of Cyrtomium from Vietnam is described and named as C. elongatum (Dryopteridaceae). Cyrtomium elongatum is similar to C. wulingense S. F. Wu, but differs by its longer leaves (to 90 cm) and more numerous pinnae (more than 60 pairs) with cordate rather than oblique bases, abaxially with sparse small brown scales, and with brown punctations within the areoles.
10.2307/3393143|Isoetes yunguiensis, a basic diploid species with a chromosome number of 2n = 22, is described and illustrated. This species occurs on the Yunnan-Guizhou Plateau in southwest China. It is similar to I. japonica in its appearance and emergent aquatic habit. Herbarium specimens of I. yunguiensis previously have been misidentified as I. japonica. Isoetes yunguiensis differs from I. japonica in megaspore and microspore morphology and chromosome number.
27765210|Se tratan las especies de Lonchocarpus Kunth sect. Obtusifolii (Bentham) M. Sousa (Leguminosae, Papilionoideae, Millettieae) para Mesoamrica. De las 12 especies reconocidas, cinco son nuevas para la ciencia, L canoensis M. Sousa, L. foveolatus M. Sousa, L. paucinervius M. Sousa, L sylvicola M. Sousa y L. velizii M. Sousa, se describen e ilustran. Las especies mesoamericanas de la seccin se contrastan en una clave. Se lectotipifica la ser. Obtusifolii Bentham con L. rugosus Bentham, se hace una nueva combinacin y la serie se eleva de rango a seccin. La sect. Obtusifolii se caracteriza y diferencia de la sect. Densiflori Bentham. De cada uno de los taxones tratados se hizo una valoracin del grado de conservacin (IUCN). A revision of the species of Lonchocarpus Kunth sect. Obtusifolii (Bentham) M. Sousa (Leguminosae, Papilionoideae, Millettieae) is presented for Mesoamerica. Of the 12 recognized species, five that are new to science, L. canoensis M. Sousa, L. foveolatus M. Sousa, L. paucinervius M. Sousa, L sylvicola M. Sousa, and L. velizii M. Sousa, are here described and illustrated. The Mesoamerican species are compared in a key. The series Obtusifolii Bentham is lectotypified with L. rugosus Bentham, and a new combination is made elevating the series to sectional rank. Section Obtusifolii is characterized and distinguished from section Densiflori Bentham. Assessments of the conservation status (IUCN) are made for each taxon.
27765190|Psychotria perotensis Castillo-Campos, belonging to subgenus Heteropsychotria Steyermark (Rubiaceae, Psychotrieae), is described and illustrated as a new species from the region of La Cortadura, Coatepec, on the eastern slopes of the volcano Cofre de Perote, Veracruz, Mexico. This species is related to P. phanerandra (Standley & Steyermark) Lorence and P. galeottiana (M. Martens) C. M. Taylor & Lorence; however, it differs from these species in its larger leaves and inflorescence. Se describe e ilustra Psychotria perotensis Castillo-Campos perteneciente al subgnera Heleropsycholria Steyermark (Rubiaceae, Psychotrieae) como una especie nueva de la regin La Cortadura, Coatepec, en las faldas orientales del volcn Cofre de Perote, Veracruz, Mxico. Esta especie muestra similitudes con P. phanerandra (Standley & Steyermark) Lorence y P. galeoltiana (M. Martens) C. M. Taylor & Lorence; sin embargo, difiere por el tamao de las hojas y de la inflorescencia.
3393398|A new species of Lomariopsidaceae, Teratophyllum hainanense S. Y. Dong & X. C. Zhang, from Hainan Island, China, is described and illustrated. It is related to T. koordersii, but differs in having 10 to 12 pairs of pinnae in mature bathyphylls and the scales of sterile pinnae on both midribs and veinlets as substellate, appressed, and small, with diameters only to ca. 0.2 mm. The genus Teratophyllum itself is reported from China for the first time.
20406156|Tricarpelema africanum Faden is described from Central Africa, representing the first African species of this otherwise Asian genus. The species is so distinct that Tricarpelema J. K. Morton subgen. Keatingia Faden is described for it, based mainly on its unusual vegetative morphology. Tricarpelema brevipedicellatum Faden is described from two Vietnamese collections that were previously treated as Aneilema montanum (Wight) Wallich ex C. B. Clarke or Dictyospermum montanum Wight. It differs from all other continental Asian species by its one-seeded locules. A key to all eight named Tricarpelema species is provided, along with a synopsis of the species, including full taxonomy and synonymy. Pollia subumbellata C. B. Clarke var. glabra Hallier f. is a new synonym for T. philippense (Panigrahi) Faden. The following names are lectotypified: T. giganteum (Hasskarl) H. Hara, T. philippense (Panigrahi) Faden, and Pollia subumbellata C. B. Clarke var. glabra Hallier f.
10.2307/3391673|Examination of types for 74 names published in Delissea by the late Harold St. John showed that most represent previously described species that are currently treated as members of the related genus Cyanea. Two of the types, however, represent morphologically distinctive species, which are referable to Cyanea sect. Hirtellae. New combinations in Cyanea are proposed, the two species are described in greater detail, and a key to the species of the section is provided.
10.2307/3391768|Studies of herbarium specimens and drawings of Crepidium Blume from New Guinea and Indonesia show that a species from Australia, previously confused with C. xanthochilum (Schlechter) Szlachetko, is undescribed. It is here described as new and illustrated.
10.2307/3391559|Thirty-two ordinal names in current use are validly published.
20406221|Morphological and karyological features support the transfer of four species from Verbena L. to Glandularia J. F. Gmelin: G. balansae (Briquet) N. O'Leary, G. paraguariensis (Moldenke) N. O'Leary, G. tecticaulis (Troncoso) N. O'Leary, and G. thymoides (Chamisso) N. O'Leary. Nevertheless, this group has features, such as brief style length and the funnelform and short corolla tubes, that are typical of Verbena. These four species represent a group informally named Balansae that is interesting from an evolutionary point of view. Two lectotypifications are made for G. balansae and G. thymoides. /// Caracteres morfolgicos y cariolgicos sustentan la transferencia de cuatro especies de Verbena L. a Glandularia J. F. Gmelin: G. balansae (Briquet) N. O'Leary, G. paraguariensis (Moldenke) N. O'Leary, G. tecticaulis (Troncoso) N. O'Leary y G. thymoides (Chamisso) N. O'Leary. Sin embargo este grupo posee caracteres, como el estilo corto y los tubos corolinos breves, infundibuliformes, que son tpicos de Verbena. Estas cuatro especies representan un grupo ambiguo, evolutivamente interesante, informalmente llamado Balansae. Se introducen dos lectotipificaciones para G. balansae y G. thymoides.
20406151|The revision of the family Alstroemeriaceae for the Flora of Colombia recognizes two previously undescribed species of Bomarea Mirbel: B. callejasiana Alzate and B. colombiana Alzate. Bomarea callejasiana is recognized because it has slightly hypocrateriform perianth and B. colombiana because of its pilose and glaucous abaxial leaf surface. Currently, both species are only known from Colombia. /// La revisin de la familia Alstroemeriaceae para la Flora de Colombia, permiti dar a conocer dos especies de Bomarea Mirbel no descritas: B. callejasiana Alzate y B. colombiana Alzate. Bomarea callejasiana se reconoce por tener perianto ligeramente hipocrateriforme y B. colombiana por sus hojas con envs piloso y glauco. Actualmente ambas especies, son solo reportadas para Colombia.
10.2307/3391937|Blotia leandriana, endemic to the eastern coastal forests of Madagascar, is described and contrasted with its congeners. It is most similar to B. oblongifolia (Baillon) Leandri but is distinguished by its smaller leaves and fruits, its inconspicuous secondary venation, and its shorter, unchanneled petioles.
20406282|A new species, Parodia gaucha M. Machado & Larocca (Cactaceae, Notocacteae), from Encruzilhada do Sul, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil, is described and illustrated. The new species is morphologically very similar to P. muricata (Otto ex Pfeiffer) Hofacker but can be distinguished from the latter by the presence of a conical projection below each areole, the higher number of shallower and narrower ribs, more closely spaced areoles, higher number of spines, different color of the spines, and seeds with minutely striate testa-cell surfaces. /// Descreve-se e ilustra-se uma nova espcie, Parodia gaucha M. Machado & Larocca (Cactaceae, Notocacteae), proveniente de Encruzilhada do Sul, Rio Grande do Sul, Brasil. A nova espcie  morfologicamente muito similar a P. muricata (Otto ex Pfeiffer) Hofacker, mas pode ser distinguida desta ltima pela presena de uma projeo cnica abaixo de cada arola, por apresentar um nmero mais elevado de costelas que so menos profundas e de menor largura, menor espaamento entre arolas, maior nmero de espinhos, por possuir espinhos de diferente colorao e sementes cujas clulas da testa possuem uma superfcie finamente estriada.
10.2307/3391588|Studies in Amazonian plant diversity have revealed the presence of two new species of Swartzia, S. oscarpintoana Pipoly & Rudas and S. gracilis Pipoly & Rudas. /// Estudios en diversidad vegetal amaznica revelaron la presencia de dos nuevas especies del gnero Swartzia, S. oscarpintoana Pipoly & Rudas y S. gracilis Pipoly & Rudas.
43288939|A new species, Coniogramme bashanensis X. S. Guo & B. Li (Pteridaceae), is described and illustrated. This new fern species was collected from the northern slope of Mt. Bashan in Langao County of Shaanxi Province, China. It is similar to C. wilsonii Hieron, in its perennial habit and frond veins that are 1- or 2-forked, occasionally connected to form one or two aroles. These fern taxa differ by the shape of the frond base. Pinnules are asymmetrically cunate or hastate, or divided with a small auriculate segment in C. bashanensis; pinnules are cordate or rounded to cunate, also unevenly so, in C. wilsonii.
10.2307/3391732|Simaba docensis, a new species of Simaroubaceae, is described and illustrated. Its geographical distribution seems to be restricted to semideciduous forest in the region of the Rio Doce basin, Minas Gerais, southeastern Brazil. Accordingly, it is likely to be a rare endemic and endangered species. It is very closely related to the only other Amazonian species of section Floribundae Engler, S. paraensis Ducke, from which it is basically distinguished by the number and shape of leaflets, leaf indument, and flower and fruit size.
10.2307/3393238|A new species of the genus Phlomis L. is described. Phlomis tathamiorum R. M. Haber & Semaan is distinguished by the following characters: whole plant eglandular; basal leaves cordate, oblong-lanceolate; indumentum almost solely pannose, of layered unstalked, short-stalked, and long-stalked stellate trichomes; inflorescence paniculate with few 1-6(-7) mm long subulate to lanceolate bracteoles; verticillasters and flowers numerous; calyx tubular, enlarged at middle; lower lip of corolla longer; nutlet tip stellate with stipitate glands.
10.2307/3391521|A new species of Buxaceae from the central Peruvian Andes is described as Styloceras penninervium.
40960827|The identity of Zygella S. Moore, a genus of Iridaceae of Mato Grosso, Brazil, has never been satisfactorily established. Plants described by S. M. Moore in 1895 as Zygella graminea appear to us to be conspecific with Larentia linearis (Kunth) Klatt, type species of Larentia Klatt, a plant well represented in herbaria, mostly from grasslands of Venezuela. We reduce Zygella to synonymy in Larentia, and Z. graminea becomes a synonym of L. linearis. A second species, Z. mooreana Hoehne, described in 1910 and also from Mato Grosso, is likewise conspecific with L. linearis and a lectotype is designated for that species. Cypella mexicana V. Morton & R. C. Foster, which shares the characters of Larentia, is transferred to the genus as L. mexicana (C. V. Morton & R. Foster) Goldblatt; with this addition, Larentia now includes three species.
10.2307/3391902|Ceratozamia morettii is described from a cloud-forest environment in Veracruz, Mexico. The main morphological characters are illustrated, and comments on related species are made. The new species differs from others in the genus by the near prostrate habit, circinate vernation of the leaves, and wide leaflets with translucent venation. This taxon is apparently related to a group of species that are relatively small trunked, branched, produce few leaves, and have relatively small strobili. The non-sympatric species of the group also inhabit moist to very moist habitats, as in the case of C. miqueliana, C. microstrobila, and C. mexicana var. robusta.
10.2307/3392205|A new arboreal species, Brongniartia guiengolensis (Fabaceae: Faboideae), endemic to Cerro Guiengola, a hill in the northwestern region of Tehuantepec, Oaxaca, Mexico, is described and illustrated. Its morphological affinities with B. sousae O. Dorado are discussed, and habitat data are given. /// Se describe una especie nueva arborea, Brongniartia guiengolensis (Fabaceae: Faboideae), endmica del Cerro Guiengola, localizado en la regin noroeste de la ciudad de Tehuantepec, Oaxaca, Mxico. Se discuten sus afinidades morfolgicas con B. sousae O. Dorado y se proporcionan datos de su hbitat.
10.2307/3391378|The subtribal classification of tribe Lactuceae is emended to include three new subtribes: Catananchinae (Mediterranean; Catananche, Hymenonema, Rothmaleria), Malacothricinae (North American; Anisocoma, Atrichoseris, Calycoseris, Glyptopleura, Malacothrix, Munzothamnus, Pinaropappus), and Sonchinae (almost worldwide; Sonchus, Launaea, and their immediate relatives).
10.2307/3391842|Two new species of Combretaceae are described from Costa Rica. Combretum graciliflorum is related to C. cacoucia Exell and is only the second species of section Cacoucia (Aublet) Engler & Diels known in America. Buchenavia costaricensis is the second species of the genus from Central America and is evidently not closely related to the other (B. tetraphylla (Aublet) R. A. Howard). Combretum assimile Eichler is also reported as new to Costa Rica, from the same area as the above two new species (Osa Peninsula, Puntarenas).
10.2307/3393118|Oxypetalum habrogynum and O. helios, two new species of Asclepiadoideae, Apocynaceae, are described and illustrated. Oxypetalum habrogynum has the membrane of the caudicles of the pollinarium concave and not convex or plane as in other species. Oxypetalum helios has the segment of the corona 3-lobed, lacking an adaxial appendage, and the gynostegium apex is filiform and bifid at its distal third. These species are endemic to the National Park of the Serra da Canastra in the state of Minas Gerais, Brazil.
10.2307/3391814|In 1987 Harold St. John published 93 names in Hawaiian Phyllostegia and 1 in Tonga; only 3 of them were accounted for in the most recent taxonomic revision of the Hawaiian species by Wagner et al. in 1990. The types of these names are analyzed, and the names are here incorporated into the current classification. Only five of the new Hawaiian species are here recognized as distinct (P. kaalaensis, P. kahiliensis, P. micrantha, P. pilosa, and P. warshaueri), and one of the new combinations is accepted here (P. velutina), with the remainder here placed into the synonymy of other species. Five of the names were not validly published. The complete nomenclature of Phyllostegia at the species level and below is presented, including 181 names. A total of 32 Hawaiian Phyllostegia species are currently recognized, including the 5 recognized St. John species published in 1987 and 2 others, P. haliakalae, resurrected from the synonymy of P. mollis, and P. renovans, discovered in 1989. The five Hawaiian species not treated in the 1990 revision are briefly characterized and discussed. Notes adding information on taxonomy, distribution, and population and conservation status not included in the recent treatment also are given. The genus also is known from Tahiti and Tonga, each with one species; the nomenclature for these two species is included, but they are not evaluated in this paper.
10.2307/3392994|A new species, Thladiantha palmatipartita A. M. Lu & C. Jeffrey, is described from Yunnan, China. It differs from other species of the genus Thladiantha in its palmately 5-lobed leaves.
10.2307/3392095|Prestonia folsomii is described from Colombia and Panama. A new combination, Prestonia longifolia (Sess & Mocino) J. F. Morales, is proposed, and two new synonyms of Prestonia portobellensis are given.
10.2307/3393524|The new species Ixora knappiae C. M. Taylor (Rubiaceae) from the San Blas region of Panama, described and illustrated here, is notable for its opposite, subsessile, basally rounded to cordate leaves.
20406269|The new species Anthurium nutibarense Croat (Araceae) from Colombia was published invalidly in 2005, not specifically designating the location of the holotype. This oversight is corrected with the validation of the name Anthurium nutibarense Croat.
10.2307/3391414|Se propone sinonomia nueva en Eriosema crinitum y E. simplicifolium, y se presenta la combinacin E. crinitum var. stipulare (Bentham) Fortunato. /// New synonymy is proposed in Eriosema crinitum and E. simplicifolium, and the combination E. crinitum var. stipulare (Bentham) Fortunato is made.
10.2307/3391580|The type of Phoradendron rusbyi Britton (Viscaceae) consists of two species of Phoradendron, one hyperparasitic on the other. The hyperparasite is designated to be the type; the host mistletoe is P. crassifolium (DC.) Eichler.
20406082|crataegus spes-aestatum J. B. Phipps is described as a new species from Missouri and Illinois. It is critically compared to C. dawsoniana Sargent, to which it keys out in the article whre that species was published, and which is here lectotypified. Also, lectotypes for the following new combinations or status from the Missouri Crataegus flora are designated: C. collina Chapman var. hirtiflora (Sargent) J. B. Phipps, C. crus-galli L. var. regalis (Beadle) J. B. Phipps, C. pruinosa (H. L. Wendland) K. Koch var. magnifolia (Sargent) J. B. Phipps, C. Reverchonii Sargent var. palmeri (Sargent) J. B. Phipps, and C. viridis L. var. nitens (Sargent) J. B. Phipps. In addition, lectotypes are designated for the varietal basionyms C. hirtiflora Sargent, C. regalis Beadle, C. magnifolia Sargent, C. palmeri Sargent, and C. glabriuscula Sargent, as well as for several of the species names involved, C. collina Chapman, Mespilus pruinosa H. L. Wendland, and C. reverchonii Sargent. Also, a lectotype and epitype for C. berberifolia Torrey & A. Gray a species with a Missouri variety, are indicated.
10.2307/3391751|Current research in the cloud forest of Cerro La Chapa, El Amparo, by Winfried Meier has resulted in the recognition of a new species of Justicia. This new species, Justicia chapana, previously misidentified as J. galapagana Lindau, is described, illustrated, and compared to the latter, its closest relative, from the Galpagos Islands.
10.2307/3391780|Two new species, Juniperus chengii L. K. Fu & Y. F. Yu and J. baimashanensis Y. F. Yu & L. K. Fu, and three new varieties, J. pingii Cheng ex Ferre var. carinata Y. F. Yu & L. K. Fu, J. squamata Buchanan-Hamilton ex D. Don var. parvifolia Y. F. Yu & L. K. Fu, and J. squamata var. hongxiensis Y. F. Yu & L. K. Fu, are described. Two new combinations in Juniperus and one in Ephedra are proposed.
3393287|The new combination Tradescantia boliviana (Hasskarl) J. R. Grant is made in recognition that it is a distinct species widespread in Peru, Bolivia, Paraguay, and Argentina, here separated by morphological characters and distribution from its previous inclusion within T. ambigua Martius ex J. H. Schultes, which is restricted to north-eastern Brazil.
10.2307/3391388|Floral and seed anatomy of Ruptiliocarpon caracolito, based on histological studies, are described in detail. Cryptic dioecy, a nectariferous staminal tube, and ovules with obturators comprise the characters most crucial to elucidation of relationships of this taxon. Originally compared among Sapindales, Ruptiliocarpon seemed close to but distinct from Meliaceae; floral anatomy suggested that it be recognized in its own separate family, a move obviated by the discovery of its close relationship to the monotypic African Lepidobotryaceae. However, the floral and seed anatomy of Lepidobotrys have not been studied in the same detail as those of Ruptiliocarpon, and the relationships of Lepidobotryaceae (Ruptiliocarpon and Lepidobotrys) remain controversial. A preliminary survey of the literature supports the suggestion that Lepidobotryaceae may be closer to Sapindales or perhaps Euphorbiaceae than to other groups with which it has been compared.
10.2307/3393386|On the basis of morphological, anatomical, and karyotypic evidence, a change in status is proposed for Whytockia wilsonii (A. Weber) Y. Z. Wang, which is elevated from varietal to species level. Further, the affinity of another variety currently accepted within W. tsiangiana is recognized, and it is now transferred from W. tsiangiana as the new combination W. hekouensis var. minor (W. W. Smith) Y. Z. Wang. Illustrations of W. wilsonii are included along with morphological descriptions and diagnostic characters. The relationships of these and related species are discussed as well as geographic distribution. A key distinguishing these species is provided.
20406101|Morphometric analysis of the Guarea glabra Vahl complex (Meliaceae) from Central America has distinguished 12 species, and two of these species are new to the complex: G. arcuata Coronado and G. petenensis Coronado. In addition, three species discovered to be superficially similar to the members of the G. glabra complex are found to be undescribed: G. gentryi Coronado, G. mexicana Coronado, and G. zarceroensis Coronado. The five new species are described below.
20406013|Twenty-six new taxa (25 species and 1 variety) of Anthurium (Araceae) from Bajo Calima, Colombia, are described as new: Anthurium albertiae Croat & Bay, A. arenasense Croat & Bay, A. barreranum Croat & Bay, A. bayae Croat, A. calimense Croat & Bay, A. coleorrhiza Croat & Bay, A. cordobense Croat & Bay, A. cylindratum Croat & Bay, A. fragrans Croat & Bay, A. hinoideum Croat & Bay, A. holquinianum Croat & Bay, A. isidroense Croat & Bay, A. joaquinense Croat & Bay, A. langendoenii Croat & Bay, A. lautum Croat & Bay, A. lygrum R. E. Schultes ex Croat & Bay, A. malagaense Croat & Bay, A. monticola var. attenuatum Croat & Bay, A. oxyanthum Croat & Bay, A. perviride Croat & Bay, A. phyllobaris Croat & Bay, A. remotum Croat & Bay, A. rubrivellus Croat & Bay, A. verrucosum Croat & Bay, A. wattii Croat & Bay, and A. wintersii Croat & Bay. /// Se describen como nuevos 26 taxones (25 especies y 1 variedad) de Anthurium (Araceae) de Bajo Calima, Colombia: Anthurium albertiae Croat & Bay, A. arenasense Croat & Bay, A. barreranum Croat & Bay, A. bayae Croat, A. calimense Croat & Bay, A. coleorrhiza Croat & Bay, A. cordobense Croat & Bay, A. cylindratum Croat & Bay, A. fragrans Croat & Bay, A. hinoideum Croat & Bay, A. holquinianum Croat & Bay, A. isidroense Croat & Bay, A. joaquinense Croat & Bay, A. langendoenii Croat & Bay, A. lautum Croat & Bay, A. lygrum R. E. Schultes ex Croat & Bay, A. malagaense Croat & Bay, A. monticola var. attenuatum Croat & Bay, A. oxyanthum Croat & Bay, A. perviride Croat & Bay, A. phyllobaris Croat & Bay, A. remotum Croat & Bay, A. rubrivellus Croat & Bay, A. verrucosum Croat & Bay, A. wattii Croat & Bay y A. wintersii Croat & Bay.
10.2307/3391852|Potentilla tucumanensis A. Castagnaro & M. Arias, sp. nov., from Tucumn, Argentina, is described and illustrated. Potentilla tucumanensis was originally determined as P. norvegica. The latter and P. anserina were the only two species of this large genus primarily of the Northern Hemisphere cited from Argentina. Potentilla tucumanensis is distinguished from P. norvegica by morphological-reproductive (flowers and achenes), anatomical (stomata), and genetic (chromosome number) characters.
10.2307/3391509|Puya lutheri is described as a new species of Bromeliaceae: Pitcairnioideae. The diagnostic characteristics distinguishing it from P. fosteriana, the closest related species, are given.
40300885|Cnidoscolus monicanus J. A. Lomel, Sahagn & V. W. Steinmann (Euphorbiaceae), endemic to western Mexico, is described and illustrated. This new species belongs to Cnidoscolus Pohl sect. Calyptrosolen (Mller Argoviensis ex Pax) Pax & K. Hoffmann and is closely allied to C. elasticus Lundell and C. tepiquensis (Costantin & Gallaud) McVaugh. We provide an identification key to the C. tepiquensis complex. These species share an arborescent and little or non-urticating habit at maturity, inflorescences that are often unisexual, and large seeds. We hypothesize that these species constitute a monophyletic group within section Calyptrosolen. Cnidoscolus monicanus is characterized by the following combination of characters: tree with grayish non-exfoliating bark and verticillate branching, petioles with two discrete glands projecting outward from the epidermis, leaf laminas (16-) 20-41(-60) X (25-) 36-67(-75) cm, leaf margins entire or with a few obscure to rarely caudate teeth, staminate flowers with a pubescent zone on the staminal column 3-4> mm long, pistillate flowers with a tomentulose perianth, a tomentose to sericeous ovary, peduncles of the pistillate infructescence 1.7-5 cm long, capsule with distal ribs and an acute apex, pedicels 520 mm long, and seeds 24-32 mm long. The new species occurs at elevations of 750-1640 m in tropical deciduous and semideciduous forest. We applied the Method for Evaluation of Risk Extinction for Wild Species in Mexico (MER) to estimate the conservation status of C. monicanus, and we concluded that it is threatened. We also evaluated the new species using applicable IUCN criteria and found it to be Endangered (EN). /// Se describe e ilustra Cnidoscolus monicanus J. A. Lomel, Sahagn & V. W. Steinmann (Euphorbiaceae), especie nueva para la ciencia endmica del occidente de Mxico. La nueva especie pertenece a Cnidoscolus seccin Calyptrosolen (Mller Argoviensis ex Pax) Pax & K. Hoffmann y est cercanamente relacionada con C. elasticus Lundell y con C. tepiquensis (Costantin & Gallaud) McVaugh. Se proporciona una clave de identificacin para las especies del complejo C. tepiquensis. Estas especies comparten el hbito arborescente poco o nada urticante en la madurez, las inflorescencias por lo general unisexuales y las grandes dimensiones de las semillas. Se hipotetiza que estos taxa forman un grupo monofiltico dentro de la seccin Calyptrosolen. Cnidoscolus monicanus se caracteriza por la combinacion de los siguientes caracteres: rbol con corteza griscea no exfoliante, ramificacin verticilada, pecolo con dos glndulas discretas, hoja con lmina de (16-)20-41(-60) X (25-)36-67(-75) cm, margen foliar entero o con pocos dientes obscuros a raramente caudados, flores estaminadas con zona pubescente de la columna estaminal de 3-4 mm de largo, flores pistiladas con perianto tomentuloso, ovario tomentoso a serceo, pednculo de la infructescencia pistilada de 1.75 cm de largo, cpsula con costillas distales y pice agudo, pedicelo de 5-20 mm de largo, semillas 24-32 mm de largo. Crece a altitudes de 750-1640 m en bosque tropical caducifolio y subcaducifolio. Se aplic el Mtodo de Evaluacion del Riesgo de Extincin de las Especies Silvestres en Mxico (MER) para estimar el estado de conservacion de C. monicanus y se concluye que est amenazada. Tambin se evalu la nueva especie con los criterios aplicables de la UICN y se encontr que est En Peligro (EN).
10.2307/3392258|Palisota flagelliflora Faden (Commelinaceae), a rosette species, is unique in Palisota in bearing its inflorescences on axillary, flagelliform shoots that lie on the forest floor. These shoots continue to grow sympodially and give rise to additional inflorescences or viviparously produce a new rosette. Other rare or unique features include: inflorescences composed of single cincinni, long pedicels, often vertical flowers, yellow staminode filament hairs, bearded filament and connective in the unpaired stamen, and bearded style.
3393485| Crotalaria miottoae, a new species of Leguminosae from southeastern Brazil, is described and illustrated. The new species is close to Crotalaria vitellina Ker Gawler, but differs in having larger wing petals, fruits, and seeds, in having terminal inflorescences, rarely leaf-opposed, and the leaflets usually rhombic or narrowly elliptic. /// Crotalaria miottoae, uma nova espcie de Leguminosae no sudeste do Brasil  descrita e ilustrada. Esta espcie  relacionada  Crotalaria vitellina Ker Gawler, diferindo desta por possuir alas, frutos e sementes maiores, inflorescncias terminais, raramente opositiflias e fololos rmbicos ou estreitamente elpticos. 
10.2307/3393022|Raphionacme sylvicola is recognized by its climbing habit, long-petioled leaves that are large, soft, and thin-textured, and flowers with tri-segmented corona lobes. The central coronal segment is strap-shaped and bifid, with the lateral segments subulate and fused to the filament bases. Raphionacme sylvicola resembles R. monteiroae (Oliver) N. E. Brown and R. flanaganii Schlechter in the climbing habit and flowers. Raphionacme is the largest genus in the Periplocoideae and consists of geophytic herbs with a few climbers that inhabit savanna, grassland, and semi-desert scrub. The occurrence of this new climbing species in mesophytic forest is thus uncommon and noteworthy.
10.2307/3391472|A new Brazilian species of the genus Aphelandra is described and illustrated. It is related to Aphelandra ignea but differs markedly from that taxon by its leaf blades and the ovate to spathulate bracts with 4-5 spines on the margin. Aphelandra is represented in Brazil by 28 species. They occur from the Floresta Amaznica to the Floresta Atlntica.
3393411|Isoetes orientalis is a previously undescribed, rare, and endangered quillwort of southeast China with a hexaploid chromosome count of 2n = 66. Megaspores of I. orientalis have a reticulate ornamentation consisting of irregularly anastomosing muri with ragged crests. Microspores have an echinate-tuberculate ornamentation. Herbarium specimens of I. orientalis previously have been misidentified as I. sinensis. Isoetes orientalis differs from I. sinensis in spore morphology and chromosome number.
10.2307/3393141|The Neotropical tree genus Alseis is unusual in the Rubiaceae in having a typically deciduous habit and protogynous flowers that are produced just before or with the new leaves. Alseis costaricensis C. M. Taylor shares characteristics with both A. hondurensis Standley and A. blackiana Hemsley of Panama and adjacent Colombia, but is allopatric to and differs morphologically from both of these species.
10.2307/3392169|Se describen dos especies nuevas basadas en colecciones recientes de Colombia: Simira cesariana C. M. Taylor, del departamento de Cesar, y S. hirsuta C. M. Taylor, del Can del Ro Claro en el departamento de Antioquia. /// Two new species are described based on recent collections from Colombia: Simira cesariana C. M. Taylor, from Cesar Department, and S. hirsuta C.M. Taylor, from the Rio Claro Canyon in Antioquia Department.
10.2307/3392021|Two new species of Trichocentrum, T. obcordilabium Pupulin and T. viridulum Pupulin, are described from the northwestern South American Andes. Trichocentrum brandtiae Kraenzlin and T. verruciferum Schlechter are reduced to synonymy of T. longicalcaratum Rolfe, and a new key to the Trichocentrum pulchrum group is provided.
27765203|The name Prunus incam Ingram ex R. Olsen & Whittemore is validated here. Introduced as a cultivated variety in 1947, Ingram's name Prunus incam has been in use as a nomen nudum in horticultural literature and the nursery trade for artificial crosses involving the parent taxa P. incisa Thunberg  P. campanulata Maximowicz. Prunus incam is an early flowering tree with two or three flowers in each persistent involucre, spreading sepals, and pink, deeply emarginate petals. Ingram's original introduction, the cultivated variety 'Okam,' is the most widely grown form.
10.2307/3393213|The genus Prosopidastrum (Mimosaceae) was described by Burkart on the basis of two species: P. mexicanum (Dressler) Burkart from Mexico with fruits 12 mm wide, dehiscing by two valves dividing into 1-seeded segments, these separating from a persistent replum, with leaflets 4-8 x 2-4 mm, and P. globosum (Gillies ex Hooker f. & Arnott) Burkart from Argentina, which has loments 3-4 mm wide and leaflets 0.5-2 x 0.5-1 mm. Burkart noted the Argentinean P. globosum as polymorphic. Based on fieldwork, analysis of herbarium specimens, and palynological studies, we concluded that three entities new to science must be described: P. dehiscens, P. angusticarpum, and P. gracile. The new species are restricted to Argentina and are mostly allopatric, but rarely locally sympatric. Characters of fruit, flowers, pollen, and leaves identify each new species. A key to differentiate all the known species is provided, as well as a key to identify the Argentinean species based on pollen morphology. /// El gnero Prosopidastrum (Mimosaceae) fue descripto por Burkart con la base en dosespecies: P. mexicanum (Dressler) Burkart de Mxico con frutos de 12 mm de ancho, dehiscente por dos valvas y desarticulndose en segmentos uniseminados que se desprenden de un replum persistente, con fololos de 4-8 x 2-4 mm, en tanto que P. globosum (Gillies ex Hooker f. & Arnott) Burkart presenta lomentos de 3-4 mm de ancho y fololos de 0.5-2 x 0.5-1 mm. Burkart advirti que la especie argentina era muy polimrfica. Despus de realizar numerosas observaciones de campo, anlisis de ejemplares de herbario y un estudio palinolgico, arribamos a la conclusin de que tres nuevas entidades para la ciencia, diferentes de las ya conocidas para el gnero, deben ser descriptas: P. dehiscens, P. angusticarpum y P. gracile. Las tres nuevas especies se distribuyen exclusivamente en Argentina y son mayormente alopatricas, raramente en ciertas localidades son simptricas. Las caractesticas del fruto, las flores, las hojas y el polen permiten identificar a cada nueva especie. Se proporciona una clave para diferenciar a todas las especies conocidas de Prosopidastrum, asi como una clave para diferenciar a las especies argentinas con base en sus caractersticas palinolgicas.
10.2307/3391771|Bourreria grandicalyx is described as new from Costa Rica, and a key is provided to the large-flowered species of the genus, a group restricted to continental tropical America.
10.2307/3393215|A new species of Podostemaceae, Podostemum irgangii, from the states of Santa Catarina and Paran, Brazil, is described and illustrated. Features that distinguish the new species are the uniformly verticillate leaves and two forms of stipules. Adjacent to either side of the leaf base, adnate to the stem, occur two lobed or unlobed, stiffened ear-shaped stipules that are 0.7-1.1 mm wide and project 0.4-0.6 mm from the stem. Three to nine finger-like upright stipules, 0.3-0.5 mm long, occur on the adaxial side of the petiole base. /// Descreve-se e ilustra-se uma nova espcie de Podostemaceae, Podostemum irgangii dos Estados de Santa Catarina e Paran, Brasil. Estruturas qualitativas que distinguem a nova espcie correspondem a folhas e estpulas. As folhas com fololos verticilados (5-14 verticilos por folha, 6-11 fololos por verticilo) so nicos em Podostemum. Duas formas de estruturas estipulares esto associadas a cada folha. Adjacentes a cada lado da base da folha, adnatas ao caule, ocorrem estpulas rgidas auriculares, bilobadas ou inteiras, com 0.7-1.1 mm de largura, projetando-se a 0.4-0.6 mm do caule. Alm disso, 3-9 estruturas estipulares retas, digitiformes, encontram-se na face adaxial da base do pecolo.
10.2307/3393148|Two taxa of Philodendron, P. asplundii Croat & M. L. Soares and P. heleniae subsp. amazonense Croat, are described as new. Both are known only from the Amazon basin, and both are widespread taxa that until now have remained unnamed. Philodendron asplundii is a member of Philodendron subg. Philodendron sect. Philodendron and is native to French Guiana, Venezuela, Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru. While it is highly variable in terms of blade shape, it is characterized by having cataphylls that weather into a network of fine fibers with thin patches of epidermis and blades with prominently raised cross-veins extending between the minor veins. Philodendron heleniae subsp. amazonense is a member of Philodendron subg. Philodendron sect. Calostigma subsect. Oligocarpidium and is native to Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and Bolivia. It is characterized by its scandent habit, the moderately elongate reddish brown-drying internodes, subterete petioles, narrowly ovate, subcordate yellow-brown drying blades, and clusters of up to 5 small whitish inflorescences.
3393548| Cinco especies de Mortoniodendron (Tiliaceae) son descritas como nuevas y sus afinidades taxonmicas son discutidas. Estas especies son endmicas de Costa Rica y distribuidas entre el nivel del mar y 1850 m. Tres de estas especies, M. abelianum, M. apetalum y M. moralesii, junto con M. pentagonum (Donnell Smith) Miranda de Guatemala, son comparadas entre si debido a sus afinidades en frutos, los cuales son grandes y presentan valvas leosas y con pared gruesa. Tambin, M. cauliflorum y M. longipedunculatum son descritos como especies nuevas, ambas son comparadas con M. anisophyllum (Standley) Standley & Steyermark por la afinidad presentada en flores y frutos. /// Five new species of Mortoniodendron are described and their taxonomic affinities are discussed. These species are endemic to Costa Rica, where they occur between sea level and 1850 m. Three of these species, M. abelianum, M. apetalum, and M. moralesii, are considered to be close relatives and compared with M. pentagonum (Donnell Smith) Miranda from Guatemala, because all have big fruits with thick, woody valves. Mortoniodendron cauliflorum and M. longipedunculatum are compared with M. anisophyllum (Standley) Standley & Steyermark because of their similar flowers and fruits. 
10.2307/3391762|New combinations are made for three mostly allopatric species formerly included in Podandrogyne brachycarpa: P. hispidula, P. jamesonii, and P. mathewsii.
20406195|Physaria scrotiformis O'Kane (Brassicaceae) is a newly described, diminutive, long-lived perennial from the upper subalpine--lower alpine zone of the San Juan Mountains of southwestern Colorado. The species grows on windswept, nearly barren exposures of Leadville limestone on West Silver Mesa. The species is another example of a taxon bridging the gap between the synonymized genera Lesquerella S. Watson and Physaria (Nuttall ex Torrey & A. Gray) A. Gray s. str. Additionally, the following new combinations and changes in status are made and keys are provided where needed: P. carinata (Rollins) O'Kane & Al-Shehbaz subsp. paysonii (Rollins) O'Kane, P. carinata (Rollins) O'Kane & Al-Shehbaz subsp. pulchella (Rollins) O'Kane, P. didymocarpa (Hooker) A. Gray subsp. lanata (A. Nelson) O'Kane, P. didymocarpa (Hooker) A. Gray subsp. lyrata (C. L. Hitchcock) O'Kane, P. floribunda Rydberg subsp. osterhoutii (Payson) O'Kane, P. geyeri (Hooker) A. Gray subsp. purpurea (Rollins) O'Kane, P. hitchcockii (Munz) O'Kane & Al-Shehbaz subsp. confluens (Maguire & A. H. Holmgren) O'Kane, P. kingii (S. Watson) O'Kane & Al-Shehbaz subsp. kaibabensis (Rollins) O'Kane, P. kingii (S. Watson) O'Kane & Al-Shehbaz subsp. utahensis (Rydberg) O'Kane, P. lepidota Rollins subsp. membranacea (Rollins) O'Kane, P. newberryi A. Gray subsp. yesicola (R. C. Sivinski) O'Kane, and P. saximontana Rollins subsp. dentata (Rollins) O'Kane.
3393553| Thalictrum pseudoichangense Q. E. Yang & G. Zhu, a new species of Ranunculaceae from Guizhou Province, China, is described and illustrated. The new species is related to T. ichangense Lecoyer ex Oliver and T. coreanum H. Lveill by having peltate leaflets and stipitate achenes, but differs in the styles being much longer, ca. 3 mm long. 
10.2307/3392191|A subdivision of American Cynanchum at the sectional level is suggested and is understood to comprise the following: C. sect. Cynanchum (also found in the Old World), C. sect. Formosum, C. sect. Macbridea, C. sect. Microphyllum, C. sect. Telminostelma, C. sect. Roulinia, and C. sect. Mellichampia. The identity of Dicarpophora is clarified and the position of Telminostelma is discussed. Four new combinations are proposed: Cynanchum mazzuchii (Spegazzini) Liede, Cynanchum brasiliense (Morillo) Liede, Cynanchum gentryi (Morillo) Liede, and Cynanchum gilbertii Liede (replaces Metalepis prevostiae Morillo). Orthosia is recognized as distinct from Cynanchum. A checklist of species and their sectional affinities is given and poorly understood taxa are highlighted.
27765195|Quassia arnhemensis Craven & Dunlop is described and illustrated from the Northern Territory, Australia. Within the Simaroubaceae, this new species is considered best placed in Quassia L., necessitating an expanded circumscription of that genus to accommodate plants with eligulate staminal filaments.
3393333| Se describe Inga colonchensis como un nuevo taxn del fragmentado bosque seco tropical de la cordillera Chongn-Colonche (Prov. Guayas), en la regin occidental del Ecuador. Por su inflorescencia capituliforme y estructuras florales de muy pequeas dimensiones, subglabras, esta especie se coloca en la seccin Leptinga. La nueva especie es similar a I. allenii de Costa Rica y Panam, de la que difiere principalmente por tener nectarios foliares doliiformes vs. claviformes, fruto ms pequeo, con pice obtuso vs. rostrado y foliolos con mayor nmero venas secundarias por lado, 14-19 vs. 6-8, respectivamente. /// Inga colonchensis is described from fragmented tropical dry forest in the cordillera Chongn-Colonche, Guayas Province, western Ecuador. It is placed in section Leptinga on account of the capituliform inflorescence and very small subglabrous flowers. This new species is similar to I. allenii from Costa Rica and Panama but differs in its barrel-shaped foliar nectaries, smaller fruits with obtuse apex, and higher number of lateral veins per side. 
41811683|The names of 14 species of fossil fungi are validated, two recognized by Kar, one by Rao, and 11 by Nandi et al. The repositories of their holotypes were not specified by the original describing authors, and this validating information is provided herein. All names and their validating descriptions/diagnoses are ascribed to their original authors. These new species names are: Diporisporites giganticus R. K. Kar, Hypoxylonites bhubanensis B. Nandi & S. Banerjee, H. elsikii B. Nandi & S. Banerjee, H. minimus B. Nandi & S. Banerjee, H. neogenicus B. Nandi & S. Banerjee, H. subrotundus B. Nandi & S. Banerjee, H. thindii B. Nandi & A. Sinha, Kalviwadithyrites saxenae M. R. Rao, Lirasporis elongatus R. K. Kar, Spirotremesporites ellipticus B. Nandi & S. Banerjee, S. longiletus B. Nandi & S. Banerjee, S. miocenicus B. Nandi & S. Banerjee, S. reniformis B. Nandi & S. Banerjee, and S. tertiarus B. Nandi, S. Banerjee & A. Sinha. The genus name Kalviwadithyrites M. R. Rao is also here validated, together with the name of its single species, K. saxenae M. R. Rao. The species mentioned above belong to Xylariaceae, Microthyriaceae, and Fungi Imperfecti (Amerosporae and Dictyosporae).
10.2307/3391778|The genus Sextonia is described; it consists of two species, the rather widespread S. rubra and the new species S. pubescens, restricted to eastern Peru.
10.2307/3391832|Passiflora sanctae-mariae, restricted to Chiapas, Mexico, and adjacent Guatemala, is newly described and assigned to a species group that includes P. lutea L. of the United States. The five species of this group lack extrafloral nectaries and have very reduced or no bracts. The group is recognized as Passiflora series Luteae (Small) J. MacDougal, comb. et stat. nov.
10.2307/3393152|In the course of preparing a taxonomic treatment of Agave (Agavaceae), recognition of four taxonomic novelties is needed. Agave phillipsiana is a new, rare species known only from four sites in Grand Canyon National Park and is distinguished by its open rosette, large glaucous leaves, narrowed paniculate inflorescence, and large flowers. Two new combinations are proposed: Agave deserti var. pringlei (Gentry) W. C Hodgson & Reveal and A. deserti var. simplex (Gentry) W. C. Hodgson & Reveal. A new interspecific hybrid, Agave x ajoensis is described. The hybrid is known from a single population restricted to Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument with A. deserti var. simplex and A. schottii var. schottii as putative parent taxa.
3393391|Preparation of a treatment of Eugenia (Myrtaceae) for the Flora Mesoamericana resulted in the discovery of many taxa heretofore undescribed. Here, 35 new species from all parts of Mesoamerica are described and illustrated: Eugenia belloi, E. breedlovei, E. cararaensis, E. cerrocacaoensis, E. chavarriae, E. cintalapana, E. cocosensis, E. coibensis, E. corusca, E. esteliensis, E. farinacea, E. gomezii, E. grayumii, E. grijalvae, E. hammellii, E. hartshornii, E. herrarae, E. intibucana, E. lempana, E. liesneri, E. lithosperma, E. locuples, E. magniflora, E. mcphersonii, E. molinae, E. monteverdensis, E. paloverdensis, E. quercetorum, E. riosae, E. sancarlosensis, E. selvana, E. shimishito, E. tilarana, E. verruculata, and E. zuchowskiae.
10.2307/3391784|Heterocentron evansii, known only from the higher slopes of Pico Bonito in northern Honduras, is described, illustrated, and compared with the species of subgenus Schizocentron to which it is here assigned. It is unique among congeners in having a combination of penninerved leaves, densely pubescent foliage and cauline internodes, glandular hairs on the prolonged connective of the larger anthers, and in occupying rocky ridgetops above tree line. This new species is the only Heterocentron restricted to Honduras and one of three species of Melastomataceae thought to be endemic to the country.
10.2307/3391432|A new species of Oplonia from the province of Jujuy, Argentina, O. jujuyensis, is described, illustrated, and compared with its closest relative. It differs markedly from O. hutchisonii by the corolla, which is weakly zygomorphic, and by the erect limb, with the posterior lip deeply two-lobed. This is the first report of this genus from Argentina.
27765238|Se describe e ilustra Miconia mazatecana de Santiago, una nueva especie de Melastomataceae posiblemente dioica de la Sierra Mazateca de Oaxaca, Mxico. Pertenece a un grupo de especies de la seccin Amblyarrhena (Naudin) Triana centrado en los Andes, que presenta filamentos y estilos con pelos glandulares. Se relaciona lejanamente con M. tacanensis Wurdack del Volcn Tacan en los lmites entre Mxico y Guatemala, debido a la pubescencia escamosa-dendrlica de ramas, hojas e inflorescencia y por la pubescencia glandular en filamentos y estilos. Miconia cajanumana Wurdack del Ecuador, se le asemeja por sus ramas y pecolos con pelos patentes y hojas con acarodomacios de pelos. Se discute tambin su morfologa floral en comparacin con la de especies dioicas de Miconia Ruiz & Pav. seccin Cremanium Triana. Miconia mazatecana de Santiago, a possibly dioecious new species of Melastomataceae from the Sierra Mazateca, Oaxaca, is described and illustrated. This species belongs to a species group of section Amblyarrhena (Naudin) Triana centered in the Andes with glandular filaments and styles; it is distantly related to M. tacanensis Wurdack from Volcn Tacan on the MexicanGuatemalan border based on its squamulous to dendritic pubescence on the branches, leaves, and inflorescence and the glandular pubescence of filaments and styles. It resembles M. cajanumana Wurdack of Ecuador in its branches and petioles with patent hairs and leaves bearing acarodomatia. Its floral morphology is also discussed in comparison with dioecious species of Miconia Ruiz & Pav. sect. Cremanium Triana.
43288945|Three new species of Paepalanthus Mart, sect. Diphyomene Ruhland (Eriocaulaceae) from Minas Grais (Brazil) are described and illustrated. Paepalanthus arcuatus Trov, defined by its curved leaves, is known only from the Serra do Cipo National Park and shares morphological characters with P. decussus Krn. Paepalanthus linearis Trov, defined by its linear leaves, is known exclusively from Itacambira and resembles P. polycladus Silveira. Paepalanthus sericiscapus Trov, defined by its sericeous scapes, is known only from the type specimens collected in the Serra da Canastra and resembles P. arcuatus. All the species are known only from their type localities and are assigned a preliminary conservation status of Critically Endangered. Morphological variation, habitat, geographic distribution, and conservation status are noted.
27765220|Dubautia carrii B. G. Baldwin & Friar and D. hanaulaensis B. G. Baldwin are new species in Dubautia Gaudich. sect. Railliardia (Gaudich.) G. D. Carr (Compositae, Madiinae) of the Hawaiian silversword alliance that were previously treated within the circumscription of D. linearis (Gaudich.) D. D. Keck subsp. opposita (Sherff) G. D. Carr. The two species are allopatric, with D. carrii in mesic to wet shrubland and forest on eastern Moloka'i and D. hanaulaensis in mesic shrubland and forest on southern West Maui. Although closely resembling D. linearis subsp. linearis and D. linearis subsp. hillebrandii (H. Mann) G. D. Carr in habit and capitulescence characteristics, D. carrii and D. hanaulaensis differ from both subspecies of D. linearis in the sense adopted here by having consistently opposite (rather than variable) phyllotaxy and toothed (rather than entire) leaf apices, and by occurring in mesic or wet (rather than mostly dry) habitats. Dubautia carrii and D. hanaulaensis are highly similar morphologically; they commonly differ from one another in stature, stem vestiture, leaf shape, capitulescence size, and receptacular-bract glandulosity. Molecular phylogenetic data indicate that D. carrii is most closely related to the East Maui endemic species of Dubautia sect. Railliardia (i.e., D. menziesii (A. Gray) D. D. Keck, D. platyphylla (A. Gray) D. D. Keck, D. reticulata (Sherff) D. D. Keck, and D. waianapanapaensis G. D. Carr), and D. hanaulaensis represents an early-diverging lineage within the Maui Nui-Hawai'i (Big Island) clade of Dubautia sect. Railliardia. High similarity of D. carrii and D. hanaulaensis in morphology and ecology may reflect retained ancestral or plesiomorphic states shared with the common ancestor of the Maui NuiHawai'i clade of Dubautia sect. Railliardia, a lineage otherwise known for exceptional adaptive radiation.
23018451|A new species of Paspalum L. (Poaceae, Panicoideae, Paniceae), P. rostratum D. Ramos, Valls & R. C. Oliveira, from the Distrito Federal in central Brazil, is described and illustrated. The new species is awned and is related to P. biaristatum Filg. & Davidse and P. longiaristatum Davidse & Filg., to which it is compared. Distinguishing features of P. rostratum include shorter awns and a rostrate upper lemma, as well as the free branching and flowering from the upper nodes, with the successive branches forming cymose branching systems. Uma nova espcie de Paspalum L. (Poaceae, Panicoideae, Paniceae), P. rostratum D. Ramos, Valls & R. C. Oliveira, do Distrito Federal, Brasil,  descrita e ilustrada. Essa nova espcie  aristada e  relacionada a P. biaristatum Filg. & Davidse e P. longiaristatum Davidse & Filg. e a elas  comparada. As caractersticas que distinguem P. rostratum incluem aristas mais curtas e lema superior rostrado, alm dos colmos muito ramificados nos ns superiores, formando um sistema de ramificao cimoso.
23259342|Changes to the International Code of Botanical Nomenclature are decided on every 6 years at Nomenclature Sections associated with International Botanical Congresses (IBC). The XVIII IBC was held in Melbourne, Australia; the Nomenclature Section met on 1822 July 2011 and its decisions were accepted by the Congress at its plenary session on 30 July. Several important changes were made to the Code as a result of this meeting that will affect publication of new names. Two of these changes will come into effect on 1 January 2012, some months before the Melbourne Code is published. Electronic material published online in Portable Document Format (PDF) with an International Standard Serial Number (ISSN) or an International Standard Book Number (ISBN) will constitute effective publication, and the requirement for a Latin description or diagnosis for names of new taxa will be changed to a requirement for a description or diagnosis in either Latin or English. In addition, effective from 1 January 2013, new names of organisms treated as fungi must, in order to be validly published, include in the protologue (everything associated with a name at its valid publication) the citation of an identifier issued by a recognized repository (such as MycoBank). Draft text of the new articles dealing with electronic publication is provided and best practice is outlined.
20406307|Since the early 20th century, the taxonomic identity of Musa nagensium Prain (Musaceae) has been uncertain to most botanists. The aim of this paper is to clarify the taxonomic history of M. nagensium. A new variety, M. nagensium var. hongii Hkkinen, is described and illustrated here. This rare variety of M. nagensium was found only in a small area in northwestern Yunnan, China, near the Burmese border. This study is based on observed morphological characteristics in the field and from specimens in various herbaria, and is supported by the existing literature on the Musaceae. A key to M. nagensium and related taxa is provided.
10.2307/3393208|A new genus, Buckiella, is segregated from Plagiothecium. The type species, Buckiella undulata (Hedwig) Ireland, known from western North America, Europe, China, and New Guinea, has plants with strongly undulate leaves, short, inconspicuous triangular leaf decurrencies, minute, granular, cuticular papillae covering the leaf cells, and wrinkled capsules. A second species, B. draytonii (Sullivant) Ireland, endemic to the Hawaiian Islands, with undulate, nondecurrent leaves, cuticular papillae on the leaf cells, and wrinkled capsules is also included in the genus.
27765206|Two new species of Lachemilla (Focke) Rydberg (Rosaceae) from the Andes of Ecuador and Colombia are described and illustrated. Lachemilla llanganatensis Romoleroux, from Ecuador, is characterized by its loosely ascending habit, sparsely shorthispid indumentum, presence of entire basal leaves, and ascending to spreading, verticillate stem leaves. The flowers are grouped in cymes of three to six flowers, with spreading sepals and episepals, and the hypanthia are often sparsely hirsute. Lachemilla kieftiana Romoleroux, from Colombia, is distinguished by its stoloniferous habit and basal leaves in rosettes with subreniform to 3-lobed, sericeous blades. The flowers are grouped in cymes of three to 10 flowers, subsessile, floral bracts free, with ascending sepals and episepals, and the hypanthia are mostly sericeous. Se describen e ilustran dos nuevas especies de Lachemilla (Focke) Rydberg (Rosaceae) de los Andes de Ecuador y Colombia. Lachemilla llanganatensis Romoleroux, del Ecuador, se caracteriza por su hbito ascendente, pubescencia esparcidamente hispidula, presencia de hojas basales enteras, y hojas distales verticiladas con lbulos foliares acendentes a horizontales. Flores agrupadas en cimas de tres a seis flores, con spalos y epispalos horizontales e hipantio esparcidamente hirsuto Lachemilla kieftiana Romoleroux, de Colombia, se distingue por el hbito estolonfero y hojas basales en roseta, lminas subreniformes, sericeas. Flores agrupadas en cimas de tres a 10 flores, ssiles o subssiles, brcteas florales libres, y spalos y epispalos ascendentes hipantio sericeo.
10.2307/3391439|Two new species of Lycianthes series Meizonodontae from Mexico are described and illustrated: L. starbuckii E. Dean and L. rzedowskii E. Dean.
20406185|Eight new sectional names are proposed in Rosaceae, tribe Potentilleae: Horkelia Chamisso & Schlechtendal sect. Capitatae (Rydberg) Ertter & Reveal, section Hispidulae Ertter & Reveal, and section Parryae Ertter & Reveal; Ivesia Torrey & A. Gray sect. Comarella (Rydberg) Ertter & Reveal, section Saxosae (Rydberg) Ertter & Reveal, section Stellariopsis (Baillon) Ertter & Reveal, and section Unguiculatae (Rydberg) Ertter & Reveal; and Potentilla L. sect. Hippianae (Rydberg) Ertter & Reveal. Thirteen varietial combinations are proposed: Horkelia californica Chamisso & Schlechtendal var. elata (Greene) Ertter & Reveal and variety frondosa (Greene) Ertter & Reveal; H. clevelandii (Greene) Rydberg var. brevibracteata (Wiggins) Ertter & Reveal; H. cuneata Lindley var. puberula (Rydberg) Ertter & Reveal and variety sericea (A. Gray) Ertter & Reveal; H. daucifolia (Greene) Rydberg var. caruifolia (Rydberg ex Howell) Ertter & Reveal and variety indicta (Jepson) Ertter & Reveal; H. fusca Lindley var. brownii (Rydberg) Ertter & Reveal (linked to significantly changed circumscriptions of variety pseudocapitata (Rydberg ex Howell) M. Peck and variety capitata (Lindley) M. Peck); H. tridentata Torrey var. flavescens (Rydberg) Ertter & Reveal; and Ivesia gordonii (Hooker) Torrey & A. Gray var. alpicola (Rydberg ex Howell) Ertter & Reveal and ursinorum (Jepson) Ertter & Reveal; and I. lycopodioides A. Gray var. megalopetala (Rydberg) Ertter & Reveal and variety scandularis (Rydberg) Ertter & Reveal. Two new varieties are proposed in Ivesia: I. argyrocoma (Rydberg) Rydberg var. moranii Ertter & Reveal, a taxon confined to the Sierra San Pedro Mrtir of northern Baja California, Mexico, and I. gordonii var. wasatchensis N. H. Holmgren ex Ertter &Reveal of Idaho, Utah, Montana, and Wyoming. A key to the four varieties of I. gordonii is presented, and a lectotype is designated for Horkelia gordonii var. alpicola Rydberg ex Howell.
27765196|A new species of Viola L. from Guangdong Province, China, V. guangzhouensis A. Q. Dong, J. S. Zhou & F. W. Xing, is described and illustrated here. The new taxon represents a fifth species in Viola sect. Diffusae (W. Becker) Ching J. Wang, and a taxonomic key to distinguish these taxa in China is included. Viola guangzhouensis is distinct from the sympatric V. diffusa Gingins by having obviously aerial stems, brownish purple stolons, and a bearded anterior petal. The new species is a narrow endemic, collected only from Dalingshan in Guangzhou, Guangdong Province, and is assessed as Critically Endangered (CR).
10.2307/3392983|Orychophragmus consists of two species endemic to China. The new combination O. limprichtianus is proposed. Cardamine hickinii and Alliaria grandifolia are reduced to synonymy of O. limprichtianus, and C. potentillifolia, O. diffusus, and O. taibaiensis are reduced to synonymy of O. violaceus.
10.2307/3391571|From Gabon, Central Africa, a new species of Baphia is described that is distinct in having a cymose arrangement of its flowers.
40856323|Eugenia goiapabana Sobral & Mazine, a new species of Myrtaceae from Espirito Santo, eastern Brazil, is described, illustrated, and has its conservation status evaluated. The new species morphologically resembles E. bocainensis Mattos, from which it differs by its glabrous, acute leaves, racemiform inflorescences, and glabrous calyx lobes. Eugenia goiapabana Sobral & Mazine, urna nova especie de Myrtaceae do estado brasileiro de Espirito Santo,  descrita, ilustrada e avallada quanto a sua conservaao. A nova especie  prxima de E. bocainensis Mattos, da qual se distingue pelas folhas glabras de pice agudo, inflorescencias racemiformes e lobos do clice glabros.
10.2307/3393080|Compsoneura diazii (Myristicaceae), a new species from the Rio Cenepa area of Bagua Province, Amazonas, Peru, is described, illustrated, and discussed. The new species is segregated from the Compsoneura capitellata complex and is easily distinguished by the chartaceous leaf laminas that turn brown upon drying; brochidodromous secondary veins; an elongate-tubular perianth; erect, elongate perianth lobes; erect anthers with acute apices; a reduced filament column; presence of minute glandular hairs on the inner perianth surface; and a ligneous, strongly rugose to sulcate pericarp covered with ferrugineous bifid trichomes.
10.2307/3391735|The new name Solanum habrochaites S. Knapp & D. M. Spooner is coined to replace the homonym Solanum agrimoniifolium (Dunal) J. F. Macbride, which has been used for the wild tomato species known in Lycopersicon as Lycopersicon hirsutum Dunal.
40960840|Three species of Rustia Klotzsch (Rubiaceae, Cinchonoideae) were previously known from Peru, R. rubra Standl. ex D. R. Simpson, R. schunkeana Delprete, and R. viridiflora Delprete. A fourth species from the Kosipata Valley (Cuzco Department), R. kosnipatana S. Will & C. M. Taylor, is newly described and illustrated here. This tree species differs in its inflorescences with erect pink flowers, fusiform flower buds, and corollas with dense pubescence in the throat and the lobes longer than the tubes. This is the first record of Rustia in the southern zone of Peru. Tres especies de Rustia Klotzsch (Rubiaceae, Cinchonoideae) se conocen de Per: R. rubra Standl. ex D. R. Simpson, R. schunkeana Delprete y R. viridiflora Delprete. Una cuarta del valle de Kosipata (Departamento de Cuzco), R. kosnipatana S. Will & distingue por su hbito arbreo, las inflorescencias con flores erectas y rosadas, las yemas florales fusiformes y las corollas con densa pubescencia en la garganta y los lbulos ms largos que el tubo. Este es el primer registro de Rustia en la zona sur de Per.
20406248|Two new species of Psidium L. (Myrtaceae) from Bahia, Brazil, are described and illustrated. Both are compared with P. cattleyanum Sabine, a possible close relative and a species with which they might be confused. Both species differ from P. cattleyanum because of their longer peduncles (2-8(-13) mm in P. cattleyanum, 10-22 mm in P. ganevii Landrum & Funch, and 12-34 mm in P. bahianum Landrum & Funch), and because the tears in the calyx do not, or scarcely, penetrate the staminal ring (in P. cattleyanum they deeply penetrate the ring). The leaf length of P. cattleyanum (to 10 cm) is intermediate between P. ganevii (to 4 cm) and P. bahianum (to 14 cm). The leaves of P. bahianum differ from P. cattleyanum in usually being ovate (not obovate), arching along the midvein, and often enfolding longitudinally; its leaf apices are usually acuminate and, when the leaf is pressed flat, often turn to one side. Psidium ganevii differs also from P. cattleyanum in often having emarginated apices; the leaves are often widest at the middle (not above the middle).
10.2307/3391407|Two new Costa Rican species of Miconia, M. friedmaniorum and M. pendula, are described and compared with their probable relatives. Discussions, distributional notes, and diagnostic illustrations are provided for each species.
40856286|Casearia espiritosantensis R. Marquet & Mansano, a new species of Salicaceae from Esprito Santo, Brazil, is described and illustrated here. This species is similar to the widespread C. decandra Jacq. in having fasciculate inflorescences, lanceolate or elliptic-lanceolate leaves, and 10 stamens. The new species differs by being a shrub and having smaller stipules, anthers with apical glands, hirsute ovaries, and davate stigmas. Other diagnostic aspects of C. espiritosantensis are the sparsely serrate leaf margins and the stipules with glands at the base of the adaxial surface. Casearia espiritosantensis R. Marquet & Mansano, uma espcie nova de Salicaceae do Esprito Santo, Brasil,  descrita e ilustrada no presente trabalho. Esta espcie  semelhante a decandra Jacq., uma espcie amplamente distribuda, pela inflorescencia fasciculada, folhas lanceoladas ou elptico-lanceoladas e 10 estmes. Difere pelo hbito arbustivo, pelas estipulas menores, pelas anteras com glndulas apicais, pelo ovrio hirsuto e estigma clavado. Outros caracteres diagnsticos desta nova espcie so: margem das folhas esparsamente serreadas e estpulas com glndulas na base da face adaxial.
40856307|Se describe e ilustra a Prestonia leco A. Fuentes & J. F. Morales (Apocynaceae), una especie nueva de los bosques montanos hmedos del noroeste de Bolivia. Esta especie parece estar cercanamente relacionada con P. denticulata (Vell.) Woodson, de la que difiere por sus inflorescencias conspicuamente ramificadas (vs. no ramificadas) y corola con el tubo floral ms largo (18-22 mm vs. 11-13 mm). Prestonia leco A. Fuentes & J. F. Morales (Apocynaceae), a new species from the wet montane forest of northwestern Bolivia, is described and illustrated. It appears to be closely related to P. denticulata (Vell.) Woodson, but differs by its conspicuously branched inflorescences (vs. unbranched) and longer corolla tube (18-22 mm vs. 11-13 mm).
3393320|Ten new species of Astragalus are described here. They belong to the following sections: section Alopecuroidei: A. burqinensis; section Brachycarpus: A. barclayanus, A. golubojensis, A. mieherorum, A. nanshanicus, A. pseudojagnobicus, A. sagastaigolensis; section Hemiphaca: A. nigrodentatus; section Polycladus: A. tibeticola; section Skythropos: A. griersonii. Furthermore, six taxa are raised in rank.
10.2307/3391557|The increase in collections of Hippocrateaceae, in particular from Andean regions, has led to several taxonomic and nomenclatural changes in the genera Salacia and Tontelea. Miers's Thermophila cordata is reestablished as Salacia cordata; S. acreana and S. megistophylla are considered to be synonyms. Salacia pittieriana is placed in synonymy with S. multiflora. Salacia mucronata is treated as a subspecies of S. multiflora. Tontelea richardii is considered as a subspecies of T. ovalifolia, and T. fluminensis placed in synonymy with the latter species. Other changes in Tontelea concern the transfer of T. ulei to Salacia ulei. Krukoff 5141, the type of Smith's Salacia petiolata, later transferred by him to Tontelea ulei, is treated here as T. petiolata.
10.2307/3392075|Carex pigra is described as new from Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, and Virginia. Loosely and few-flowered pistillate spikes, long staminate spike peduncles, perigynia usually 3.9-4.5 mm long, and achenes occupying most of the space within the perigynia are among the characters distinguishing C. pigra from what are probably its closest relatives, C. flaccosperma and C. glaucodea. Carex pigra occurs mostly in moist to wet deciduous forests.
10.2307/3393031|The monotypic Dolichorhynchus is reduced to the synonymy of Douepea. The new combination Douepea arabica is proposed.
20406093|Impatiens pacifica Zika (Balsaminaceae), a natural spontaneous hybrid, is described from western North America, in coastal Oregon and Washington. A key is provided, and the hybrid is compared with its parents, the common introduction Impatiens capensis Meerburgh and the uncommon native I. ecalcarata Blankinship. Hybrid flowers are intermediate in markings and morphology between those of the parents. Impatiens pacifica differs from I. ecalcarata in its spotted corolla and from I. capensis in its spurless flowers.
10.2307/3391651|The new combination Styrax faberi var. formosanus is proposed, and the taxon is lectotypified.
10.2307/3391417|The species of Ilex (Aquifoliaceae) native to Panama are treated in a synoptic fashion. Three new species are described: Ilex fortunensis, Ilex maxima, and Ilex stellata.
10.2307/3393180|As a result of a taxonomic study of the genus Mimosa L. for Flora de Nicaragua, Flora Mesoamericana, and Flora de Mxico, six new combinations at the infraspecific level, two new names at the specific level, and two changes of series category at the supraspecific level, are herein proposed. These taxa occur mainly in southeastern Mexico (states of Veracruz, Tabasco, Oaxaca, Chiapas, and the Yucatn Pennsula) as well as in Central America. /// Como uno de los resultados del estudio taxonmico del gnero Mimosa L. para la Flora de Nicaragua, la Flora Mesoamericana y la Flora de Mxico, se proponen seis combinaciones nuevas a nivel infraespecfico, dos nombres nuevos a nivel especfico, as como dos cambios en la categora de serie a nivel supraespecfico, para los taxa existentes principalmente en el sureste de Mxico (estados de Veracruz, Tabasco, Oaxaca, Chiapas y la Pennsula de Yucatn) as como en Centroamrica.
10.2307/3391554|Cynanchum wangii, a new species from Yunnan, China, is described, and a photograph of the type specimen is given.
10.2307/3391962|Five new species and three varieties of Corispermum L. (Chenopodiaceae) are described from North America. Corispermum pacificum Mosyakin and C. pallidum Mosyakin are restricted to the Pacific Northwest; C. welshii Mosyakin is known from Utah and adjacent parts of Wyoming; C. navicula Mosyakin occurs in Colorado and probably adjacent states; C. hookeri Mosyakin is known from Canada. Corispermum pacificum is closely related to the Asian taxa C. crassifolium Turczaninov and C. maynense Ignatov; C. pallidum is possibly related to C. macrocarpum Bunge ex Maximowicz; the three remaining new taxa and all other native North American taxa are allied to the C. pallasii Steven aggregate. The nomenclature of C. pallasii [= C. leptopterum (Ascherson) Iljin = C. sibiricum Iljin subsp. baicalense Iljin = C. bjelorussicum Klokov & Krasnova], C. villosum Rydberg, and C. americanum (Nuttall) Nuttall is discussed. Three new varieties are described: C. americanum var. rydbergii Mosyakin, C. hookeri var. pseudodeclinatum Mosyakin, and C. ochotense var. alaskanum Mosyakin. Corispermum ochotense Ignatov, a species recently described from the northeastern part of the Russian Far East, is reported from Alaska and northwestern Canada, where it is represented by two varieties. Corispermum ochotense var. alaskanum differs from the typical variety in having larger fruits. Preliminary results of a study of the genus in North America are discussed.
40300935|Considerando las distintivas caractersticas morfolgicas de las infrutescencias subumbeladas y las recientemente descubiertas inflorescencias y flores estaminadas de Sorocea sprucei (Baillon) J. F. Macbride subsp. subumbellata C. C. Berg, se propone elevar su rango a nivel de especie. /// A species-level status for Sorocea sprucei (Baillon) J. F. Macbride subsp. subumbellata C. C. Berg is proposed here, recognizing the subumbellate infructescences and the sharply distinctive, previously unknown, and recently discovered staminate inflorescences and flowers.
10.2307/3391798|A new Licaria (Lauraceae) from the Caribbean lowlands of Costa Rica is described and illustrated here. /// Una Licaria (Lauraceae) de las tierras bajas del Caribe costarricense se describe y se ilustra en este artculo.
10.2307/3392232|Two new varietal combinations are made in the grass genus Elymus: E. glabriflorus (Vasey) Scribner & Ball var. australis (Scribner & Ball) J. J. N. Campbell, and E. villosus Muhlenberg var. arkansanas (Scribner & Ball) J. J. N. Campbell.
10.2307/3393011|Amorphophallus zengianus C. L. Long & H. Li from Yunnan, China, is described as new. It is similar to A. krausei Engler in having an erect, boat-shaped spathe with a sterile portion between male and female parts, but differs in having a spathe without spots, an appendix shorter than the spathe, and a pleasant odor.
10.2307/3391398|Terpsichore, a new genus of Grammitidaceae, is described and combinations are made for the species known to belong to it. Terpsichore differs from other genera in the family by the combination of the following characters: the presence of usually conspicuous hydathodes that sometimes produce calcareous secretions; reddish to atropurpureous (less often hyaline) setae mostly 1-3 mm along the stipe, rachis, costae, and (sometimes) lamina; nonclathrate, usually castaneous to blackish rhizome scales that are usually setulose along the margins; and free, unbranched, pinnate venation in the segments of pinnae. The genus comprises about 50 species and is primarily neotropical; one species is known from Africa and offshore islands. A key is provided to distinguish the neotropical genera of Grammitidaceae.
10.2307/3392119|Two new species of Annonaceae from the threatened lowland coastal forests of Tanzania are described and illustrated. Xylopia mwasumbii D. M. Johnson has distinctive flattened monocarps, unique among its African congeners. Uvaria puguensis D. M. Johnson is a small-flowered species belonging to a complex including, in East Africa, U. angolensis, U. lucida, and U. tanzaniae. A key to the taxa of the U. angolensis group in East Africa is provided.
3393408| Cleome boliviensis Iltis, a large-flowered new species of the speciose, mostly spiny section Tarenaya (Rafinesque) Iltis [validated here], is described, illustrated, and its relationship to other species discussed. This xerophytic subshrub, wide-spread and common in the Andes of southern Peru and Bolivia (and becoming weedy in adjacent Amazonian lowlands), differs from the allopatric, more eastern, lowland, annual C. hassleriana by its more or less perennial habit, whitish to pinkish white flowers, finely glandular-pubescent fruits, and smaller seeds with abundant, minute (use 20x lens), oil-containing, light-refracting, caruncular bulliform cells. These densely cover the flat seed faces and often the mouth of the seed "cleft," and appear to be related to dispersal by ants. At the edge of its range, the new species seems to hybridize with other species of section Tarenaya, such as C. parviflora and long-fruited C. spinosa s.l. recently introduced from northeastern Brazil. Myrmecochory in the Cleomaceae is discussed and appears to have arisen independently several times. /// Se describe e ilustra Cleome boliviensis Iltis (Cleomaceae), una nueva especie de flores grandes, perteneciente a la seccin Tarenaya (Rafinesque) Iltis, una seccin con numerosas especies en su mayora espinosas; se discute su relacin con otras especies afines. Es un subarbusto xeroftico, ampliamente distribuido en los Andes del sur de Per y de Bolivia (llega a ser una maleza adventicia en reas bajas aledaas de la Amazona), difiere de la especie aloptrica C. hassleriana por su hbito ms o menos perenne, flores blanquecinas hasta rosado blanquecinas, por sus frutos finamente pubescente-glandulares y semillas ms pequeas con abundantes diminutas (use una lupa de 20 x) clulas carunculares buliformes, que contienen aceites y reflejan la luz. stas cubren densamente las caras aplanadas de las semillas y a menudo la boca de la "escotadura" de la semilla y sugieren la dispersin por hormigas. En el lmite de su distribucin geogrfica, esta especie parece formar hbridos con otras especies de la sect. Tarenaya como C. parviflora y C. spinosa s.l., una especie de fruto largo de reciente introduccin en el nororiente de Brasil. Se discute la mirmecocoria en las Cleomaceae que parece haber evolucionado varias veces, independientemente. 
10.2307/3392041|Pitcairnia calcicola is described as a narrow endemic of the low limestone hills in the tropical dry forest of central Guanacaste Province, Costa Rica. It belongs to Pitcairnia subg. Pitcairnia, and appears to be most closely related to P. flagellaris L. B. Smith of Guatemala.
23259432|The new species Alpinia rugosa S. J. Chen & Z. Y. Chen (Zingiberaceae) is described and illustrated from Hainan, China. The new taxon is distinguished from its related species A. kwangsiensis T. L. Wu & S. J. Chen by having a shorter pseudostem, smaller and more pronounced rugose to the leaf blade, shorter inflorescence, absent bracteole, pink calyx, and an orange labellum with a red tinge.
10.2307/3391947|The genus Machaerina Vahl (Cyperaceae) now consists of five species in South America. A key to the taxa, a description of the genus and each taxon, nomenclature, and an illustration of the mature fruit (achene) for each taxon are provided, and the distribution of each taxon is mapped. Two new species, Machaerina ayangannensis M. T. Strong from Guyana and M. austrobrasiliensis M. T. Strong from southeastern Brazil, are described.
10.2307/3391663|Roegneria tenuispica is described and illustrated, and its chromosome number, 2n = 28, is reported.
10.2307/3392045|A new species, Calathea misantlensis, is described and illustrated. Its closest affinities are with C. coccinea Standley & Steyermark from Chiapas and Oaxaca, Mexico, and Guatemala, but it differs from that species in inflorescence morphology. /// Una nueva especie, Calathea misantlensis, se describe e ilustra. Sus afinidades ms cercanas son con C. coccinea Standley & Steyermark de Chiapas y Oaxaca (Mexico) y Guatemala, pero difiere de esta especie en la morfologa de la inflorescencia.
10.2307/3391531|Twenty-one specific epithets in Petrea need lectotypification. Of these, 17 holotypes were not originally designated, two types were destroyed during World War II, and two are missing.
10.2307/3393089|Tassadia capitata, from Santa Cruz, Bolivia, and Par, Brazil, is described and illustrated. This new species is most closely related to T. guianensis Decaisne, and the two species are somewhat intermediate between Tassadia and Stenomeria.
40300882|Cephalanthera nanlingensis A. Q. Hu F. W. Xing, a new species of Orchidaceae from Guangdong, China, is described and illustrated. It is similar to C. longifolia (L.) Fritsch and C. erecta (Thunberg ex A. Murray) Blume, sharing slender stems, plicate leaves, and white flowers. The new species is distinguished by its deltoid bracts and a subactinomorphic perianth.
23018449|Synandropus membranaceus A. C. Sm. (Menispermaceae), known previously only from the type collection, is lectotypified and Synandropus A. C. Sm. is reduced to synonymy of Odontocarya Miers, within section Somphoxylon (Eichler) Barneby. The new combination O. membranacea (A. C. Sm.) R. Ortiz is made; O. uva-alba Barneby and O. arifolia Barneby are reduced to synonymy under O. membranacea. Se lectotipifica Synandropus membranaceus A. C. Sm. (Menispermaceae), conocida anteriormente slo de la coleccin tipo y se reduce Synandropus A. C. Sm. a sinnimo de Odontocarya Miers, en la seccin Somphoxylon (Eichler) Barneby. Se hace la nueva combinacin de O. membranacea (A. C. Sm.) R. Ortiz; O. uva-alba Barneby y O. arifolia Barneby son considerados como sinnimos de O. membranacea.
10.2307/3391643|This paper treats the six species of Philodendron subg. Pteromischum from Sal, a region of mostly virgin humid forest located in central French Guiana. Descriptions, dichotomous keys, discussion, and exsiccatae are provided. Three species, P. cremersii, P. duckei, and P. guianense, are new.
23018503|Two new Brazilian species of Machaerium Pers. sect. Oblonga (Benth.) Taub. (Leguminosae) are described and illustrated. Machaerium macaense C. V. Mendona, A. M. G. Azevedo & H. C. Lima is a tree species endemic to the Reserva Ecolgica Maca de Cima, an area of Atlantic forest in Rio de Janeiro State, Brazil. The species is closely similar to M. nyctitans (Vell.) Benth., from which it differs by its smooth bark, smaller leaflets, sunken secondary veins, narrower bracteoles, and smaller standard petal. It is also similar to M. hatschbachii Rudd, from which it differs by bark characters, the bracteoles that are shorter than the calyx, and its inconspicuous stigma. The second new species, M. jobimianum C. V. Mendona & A. M. G. Azevedo, has a wider distribution than the first, in Minas Gerais, Esprito Santo, and Bahia states, occurring in Atlantic and mesophitic forests or as a pioneer in secondary vegetation. Its habit is a shrub, and it has been confused with M. floridum (Mart. ex Benth.) Ducke, from which it differs by its lustrous and glabrous leaflets, ovate bracteoles, and glabrous stamens. The species is also closely similar to M. myrianthum Spruce ex Benth., a vine or shrub from the Amazon Basin, which has wider paniculate inflorescences, a pandurate standard, and a longer stipe. Duas novas espcies brasileiras de Machaerium Pers. sect. Oblonga (Benth.) Taub. (Leguminosae) so descritas e ilustradas. Machaerium macaense C. V. Mendona, A. M. G. Azevedo & H. C. Lima  uma rvore endmica da Reserva Ecolgica de Maca de Cima, uma rea de Floresta Atlntica no estado do Rio de Janeiro, Brasil. A espcie  similar a M. nyctitans (Vell.) Benth., da qual difere pela casca lisa, fololos menores, com nervuras secundrias imersas, bractolas estreitas, e estandarte menor. Ela  tambm similar a M. hatschbachii Rudd, da qual difere pelas caractersticas da casca, bractolas menores do que o clice e estigma inconspcuo. A segunda espcie nova M. jobimianum C. V. Mendona & A. M. G. Azevedo apresenta uma distribuio mais ampla do que a primeira nos estados de Minas Gerais, Esprito Santo e Bahia, ocorrendo nas Florestas Atlntica e mesoftica, ou na vegetao secundria como pioneiras. Seu hbito  arbustivo e tem sido confundida com M. floridum (Mart. ex Benth.) Ducke da qual se difere pelos fololos lustrosos e glabros, bractolas ovatas e estames glabros. A espcie  tambm similar a M. myrianthum Spruce ex Benth. uma liana ou arbusto da Amaznia, com inflorescncias paniculadas, mais amplas, estandarte panduriforme e estilete mais longo.
10.2307/3393090|Dioscorea omiltemensis, una nueva especie del estado de Guerrero, Mxico, es descrita. Se ubica en la seccin Hyperocarpa, esta especie nueva se distingue de D. oreodoxa de Mxico, as como de D. niederleinii y D. grisebachii de Sudamrica dentro de la misma seccin por su morfologa, distribucin geogrfica y preferencias ecolgicas distintas. Adems, en este trabajo, se describen e ilustran las flores estaminadas de D. tacanensis por primera vez, de ejemplares de la localidad tipo. Se discuten sus relaciones con D. cyphocarpa, se brindan datos de su distribucin geogrfica y preferencias ecolgicas. /// Dioscorea omiltemensis, a new species from the State of Guerrero, Mexico, is described. Assigned to section Hyperocarpa, the new species is distinguished from D. oreodoxa of Mexico, as well as D. niederleinii and D. grisebachii of South America within the same section, by its different morphology, its geographic distribution, and its ecological preferences. In addition, in this paper the staminate flowers of D. tacanensis are described and illustrated for the first time from the collections from the type locality; its relationship with D. cyphocarpa is discussed, as well as its geographic distribution and ecologic preferences.
10.2307/3392195|The new species Palicourea orquidea, Palicourea quadrilateralis, Palicourea sopkinii, Palicourea zarucchii, Psychotria ovatistipula, Psychotria sanchezii, and Psychotria vesciculifera are described and illustrated. These are all shrubs or small trees found in wet forests at 520-2500 m in the Pacific slope and Cordilleras Occidental and Central of Antioquia and Choc Departments, Colombia. /// Se describen e ilustran las especies nuevas Palicourea orquidea, Palicourea quadrilateralis, Palicourea sopkinii, Palicourea zarucchii, Psychotria ovatistipula, Psychotria sanchezii y Psychotria vesciculifera. Todas son arbustos o arbolitos que crecen en bosques hmedos de 520-2500 m en la vertiente del Pacfico y las Cordilleras Occidental y Central de los Departmentos de Antioquia y el Choc, Colombia.
10.2307/3393048|Some nomenclatural amendments caused by taxonomic revision in Asteraceae and Poaceae will be adopted for the flora of Florida. Therefore, the new combinations Carphephorus odoratissimus var. subtropicanus (DeLaney et al.) Wunderlin & B. F. Hansen, Symphyotrichum carolinianum (Walter) Wunderlin & B. F. Hansen, Symphyotrichum sericeum var. microphyllum (DC.) Wunderlin & B. F. Hansen, Symphyotrichum concolor var. plumosum (Small) Wunderlin & B. F. Hansen, Dichanthelium nudicaule (Vasey) B. F. Hansen & Wunderlin, Urochloa fusca (Swartz) B. F. Hansen & Wunderlin, and Urochloa fusca var. reticulata (Torrey) B. F. Hansen & Wunderlin are proposed for Florida taxa.
10.2307/3393150|Upon learning that the genus Pherosphaera W. Archer bis (1850) was a synonym of the monospecific Tasmanian genus Microcachrys Hooker f. (1845), the family name Microcachrydaceae Doweld & Reveal (1999) was proposed for conservation giving it priority over Pherosphaeraceae Nakai (1938). The long-used name Pherosphaeraceae was consistently misapplied in the sense of Microstrobos J. Garden & L. A. S. Johnson (1951). Accordingly, a new family, Microstrobaceae, is validated and segregated into its own order, Microstrobales. In addition, for those who might wish to recognize the taxon at a lower rank within Podocarpaceae Endlicher, the names Microstroboideae and Microstrobeae are established to replace the already existing but consistently misapplied Pherosphaeroideae Pilger (1903, 1916) and Pherosphaereae Pilger (1903).
10.2307/3391965|Three new Andean species of Zanthoxylum (= Fagara), Z. gentryi Reynel, Z. lenticulare Reynel, and Z. lepidopteriphilum Reynel, are described and illustrated. Vegetative characters of taxonomic and practical identification value are briefly discussed. Some of these features relate to insect-plant interactions. /// Tres nuevas especies de Zanthoxylum (= Fagara), Z. gentryi Reynel, Z. lenticulare Reynel y Z. lepidopteriphilum Reynel, son descritas e ilustradas. Se discuten brevemente caracteres vegetativos de utilidad taxonmica y prctica en la identificacin de especies en el gnero. Algunos de estos caracteres tienen relacin con interacciones insecto-planta.
43288934|In this taxonomic contribution, a new species of Lauraceae, Ocotea grandifructa L. C. S.Assis & M. F. Santos, from the Brazilian Atlanticforest in Minas Grais State, is presented. Followingthe diagnostic criterion for species delimitation, inwhich a species is delimited by an exclusive featureor an exclusive combination of morphologicalfeatures, the new species differs from other dioeciousspecies in Ocotea Aubl. by presenting branchletswith rhythmic growth, chartaceous leaf laminas,deciduous perianth at fruit maturity, cupules with asingle margin, and large, ovoid fruit. Nesta contribuiao taxonmica, urna especie nova de Lauraceae, Ocotea grandifructa L. C. S. Assis & M. F. Santos,  descoberta na florestaatlntica brasileira, no Estado de Minas Grais. Seguindo o criterio diagnstico para a delimitao deespecies, no qual urna especie  delimitada por urnacaracterstica exclusiva ou urna combinaao exclusivade caractersticas morfolgicas, a especie nova diferesedas outras dioicas em Ocotea Aubl. por apresentarramos com crescimento rtmico, lminas cartceas, umperianto deciduo na maturidade dos frutos, cpulascom urna nica margem e frutos grandes, ovoides.
41811676|A new pteridophyte species, Polystichum tiankengicola Li Bing Zhang, Q. Luo & P. S. Wang (Dryopteridaceae), is described and illustrated from a high-elevational karst sinkhole from Guizhou Province in China. Morphological evidence suggests that P. tiankengicola is a member of series Basigemmifera W. M. Chu & Z. R. He in section Micropolystichum Daigobo, based on the presence of bulbils on rachis and the small habit. Polystichum tiankengicola is unique in series Basigemmifera in having a bulbil at both the base and apex of the rachis. Morphologically, the new species is most similar to P. capillipes (Baker) Diels, also of series Basigemmifera, but beyond the distinctive number of bulbils on the rachis, P. tiankengicola has a truncate lamina apex and its perispores have an echinate sculpture with irregular ridges, in contrast to P. capillipes, which has only one bulbil at the base of the rachis, an acuminate lamina apex, and perispores that have a granular sculpture. Polystichum tiankengicola is found only from the highest elevational, karst sinkhole known in China (2530 m) and is considered to be Critically Endangered (CR), based on IUCN Red List criteria.
10.2307/3393186|This paper validates a nomem nudum for an endemic Lavoisiera from Cristalina, Gois, in central Brazil. It was first collected by Glaziou in 1895 and then sent to Cogniaux, who named it but never formally described it. The Cogniaux name is maintained since it is cited in Glaziou's published list of collections and on herbarium specimens. Lavoisiera fragilis is a small white-flowered tree that is protected by the Linda Serra dos Topzios Private Reserve. /// Este trabalho torna vlido um nomen nudum para uma Lavoisiera endmica de Cristalina, Gois no Brasil Central. A espcie foi coleta pela primeira vez por Glaziou em 1895 e enviada para Cogniaux, que a nomeou mas nunca a descreveu formalmente. O nome dado por Cogniaux  mantido por ter sido citado na lista publicada de coletas de Glaziou e por aparecer nas suas etiquetas de material herborizado. Lavoisiera fragilis  uma pequena rvore de flores alvas, protegida pela Reserva Particular de Patrimnio Natural (RPPN) Linda Serra dos Topzios.
10.2307/3391990|A new species of the genus Campnosperma, previously considered to contain only a single species in Madagascar, is described from the Massif de Marojejy in northeastern Madagascar. Campnosperma parvifolium differs from C. micranteium in its smaller leaves, with fewer secondary veins, and sparsely but evenly lepidote leaf under-surface. It occurs on high mountain ridges at Marojejy and Anjanaharibe, while C. micranteium is a species found on sand in littoral forests.
20406085|Recent collecting efforts in Madagascar's eastern littoral forest have yielded a new species, Ludia craggiana Z. S. Rogers, Randrianasolo & J. S. Miller (Salicaceae), which is apparently endemic to two sandy forest fragments located near Vohmar in northeastern Madagascar. This species is most similar to L. ludiifolia (H. Perrier) Capuron & Sleumer, but can be distinguished by its more robust young stems and spines, glabrous or rarely puberulent twigs, petioles, midribs, and pedicels, coriaceous leaves with midveins and secondary venation of similar thickness, 50 to 60 stamens with emarginate anther connectives, and by the minutely granular-papillose fruit surface. Ludia craggiana is illustrated and assigned a provisional conservation status of endangered. /// Des inventaires botaniques rcents effectus dans les forts littorales de l'Est de Madagascar ont conduit  la dcouverte d'une nouvelle espce Ludia craggiana Z. S. Rogers, Randrianasolo & J. S. Miller (Salicaceae), qui est apparemment endmique de deux fragments de fort littorale sur sable aux environs de Vohmar au NE de Madagascar. Cette espce ressemble beaucoup  L. ludiifolia (H. Perrier) Capuron & Sleumer mais se distingue de celle-ci par ses jeunes rameaux et ses pines plus robustes, ses ramilles et ses nervures mdianes ainsi que ses pedicelles glabres ou rarement puberulents, ses feuilles coriaces  nervures primaires et secondaires d'paisseur semblable, ses 50  60 tamines avec des anthres  connectifs emargins, et par la surface du fruit finement granulaire-papille. Une illustration ainsi qu'un statut de conservation provisoire rattach  la catgorie "en danger" de cette espce sont prsents.
10.2307/3392025|Three new species of Sauvagesioideae (Ochnaceae) are described: Adenarake macrocarpa Sastre from Venezuela, Adenanthe ciliata Sastre from Guyana, and Tyleria terrae-humilis Sastre from Venezuela.
23018501|The species Asparagus kansuensis F. T. Wang & T. Tang ex S. C. Chen (Asparagaceae) from China was invalidly published in 1978, because two types were simultaneously indicated. The plant name is validly published here, but otherwise refers to the 1978 diagnosis. Thus, the original ascription to authors is kept.
3393394| Two new species, two new varieties, and two new combinations for Lythraceae from Bolivia, Brazil, Cuba, and Mexico are proposed. The new species are Cuphea aquilana from Mexico and C. potamophila from Brazil. The new varieties are C. pulchra var. corollata from Brazil and Diplusodon virgatus var. occidentalis from Brazil and Bolivia. Cuphea sessilifolia subsp. bahiensis is elevated to the rank of species. Cuphea grisebachiana, from Cuba, is reduced to varietal status as C. parsonsia var. grisebachiana, and the first report of its chromosome number is given. The range of Cuphea xanthopetala, previously known only from Mato Grosso, Brazil, is extended by discovery of the species in Amazonas, Brazil. Additional collections also expand the range of the recently described Diplusodon bolivianus in Santa Cruz, Bolivia, and Mato Grosso, Brazil. /// Duas novas espcies, duas novas variedades e duas novas combinaes para Lythraceae da Bolvia, Brasil, Cuba e Mxico so propostas. As novas espcies so Cuphea aquilana, do Mxico e C. potamophila, do Brasil. As novas variedades so C. pulchra var. corollata, do Brasil e Diplusodon virgatus var. occidentalis, do Brasil e Bolvia. Cuphea sessilifolia subsp. bahiensis  elevada ao estatus de espcie. Cuphea grisebachiana da Cuba  reduzida ao estatus varietal como C. parsonsia var. grisebachiana e o primeiro registro sobre o seu numero cromossmico  fornecido. A amplitude de distribuio de C. xanthopetala, previamente conhecida apenas para o Mato Grosso, Brasil,  extendida pela descoberta da espcie na Amaznia, Brasil. Colees adicionais do Mato Grosso, Brasil, expandem tambm a distribuio conhecida de Diplusodon bolivianus, recentemente descrita para Santa Cruz, Bolvia. 
10.2307/3393033|During preparation of the account of Stellaria L. (Caryophyllaceae) for the Flora of China, Volume 6, it was noticed that two names are illegitimate later homonyms: Stellaria arenaria Maximowicz, non Linnaeus, and Stellaria pilosa Franchet, non Dulac. Therefore, the following new names (nomina nova) are provided here: Stellaria arenarioides Shi L. Chen, Rabeler & Turland and Stellaria pilosoides Shi L. Chen, Rabeler & Turland.
40300896|Astragalus ghanbarianii Maassoumi, Podlech & Zarre and A. nervifolius Maassoumi, Podlech & Zarre, two new species of Astragalus sect. Campylanthus Bunge (Fabaceae) from Iran, are described and illustrated. Because of the considerable changes in the delimitation of this section, a new diagnostic key to its species is presented. Moreover, A. susianus Boissier subsp. sericeus Tietz is reduced to synonymy of A. chalaranthus Boissier & Haussknecht.
10.2307/3391644|A new name is proposed for Erica excelsa (Alm & T. C. E. Fries) Beentje, which is a later homonym of E. excelsa Tausch. In addition, a new combination in Erica based on Philippia mafiensis Engler is proposed.
40300918|Se describe una nueva especie de Opuntia (L.) Miller (Cactaceae), endmica de la regin de Cuicatln, estado de Oaxaca, Mxico. Frutos rojoviolaceos con espinas largas, funiculos semi-secos de paredes comestibles que no se desprenden de los cladodios cuando maduran, no son comidos por pjaros debido a su sabor agridulce (conocidos como xoconostles o xoco-tunas). Se compara con tres especies simpatricas descritas con anterioridad: O. tehuacana S. Arias & U. Guzmn, O. parviclada S. Arias & Gama y O. olmeca Joel Prez, J. Reyes & F. Brachet. Opuntia chiangiana Scheinvar & Manzanero es ubicada en la serie Heliabravoanae Scheinvar con base en sus frutos acidos. /// A new species of Opuntia (L.) Miller (Cactaceae), endemic to the region of Cuicatlan in the state of Oaxaca, Mexico, is described. The fruits are red-violet with long spines, funiculi that are almost dry, and fruit walls that are edible and do not fall off when mature. However, birds have not been observed to eat the fruits of this sweet-acidic cactus pear (known as xoconostle or xoco-tuna). The new species is compared to three sympatric species formerly described: O. tehuacana S. Arias & U. Guzman, O. parviclada S. Arias & Gama, and O. olmeca Joel Perez, J. Reyes & F. Brachet. Opuntia chiangiana Scheinvar & Manzanero is assigned to series Heliabravoanae Scheinvar on the basis of its acidic fruits.
10.2307/3391752|Three new subspecific combinations are proposed in the genus Kobresia: K. myosuroides (Villars) Fiori subsp. bistaminata (W. Z. Di & M. J. Zhong) S. R. Zhang, K. royleana (Nees) Boeckeler subsp. minshanica (Wang & Tang ex Y. C. Yang) S. R. Zhang, and K. setschwanensis Handel-Mazzetti subsp. squamaeformis (Y. C. Yang) S. R. Zhang. Additionally, K. kashgarica Dickor is treated as a synonym of K. myosuroides subsp. bistaminata and K. menyuanica Y. C. Yang as a synonym of K. royleana subsp. minshanica.
20406083|Ten new species of Scutellaria L. (Lamiaceae) from Mesoamerica, Scutellaria albituba A. Pool, S. aurantiaca A. Pool, S. lactea A. Pool, S. molinarum A. Pool, S. multiramosa A. Pool, S. oblongifolia A. Pool, S. saslayensis A. Pool, S. talamancana A. Pool, S. tucurriquensis. A. Pool, and S. tutensis A. Pool, are described and their relationships with allied species are discussed. Scutellaria oblongifolia (Panama), and S. albituba, S. lactea, and S. talamancana (Costa Rica) belong to section Uliginosae (Epling) Epling and are herbs with small, pallid flowers, the corolla tubes with galeas not exceeding 20 mm in length. Scutellaria molinarum (Honduras and Guatemala), in section Speciosae (Epling) Epling, is a large herb to 1 m with large reddish purple flowers, the corolla tubes with galea to 26mm in length. The five remaining new species are members of section Cardinales Epling. Scutellaria multiramosa (Panama) is a shrub with reddish violet medium-sized flowers, the corolla tubes with galeas 21-27 mm in length, S. tutensis (Panama) is a suffruticose herb with large pale lavender flowers, the corolla tubes with galeas to 28 mm in lenght, S. saslayensis (Nicaragua) and S. tucurriquensis (Costa Rica) are tall herbs, over 0.5 m tall, with medium to large red flowers, the corolla tubes with galeas 27-29 mm and 21-23 mm, respectively, and S. aurantiaca (Honduras) is a tall herb exceeding 0.4 m with orange flowers, the corolla tubes with galeas ca. 32mm.
10.2307/3393194|During preparation of the account of Eriocaulaceae for the Flora of China, volume 24, it was noticed that one species, Eriocaulon bilobatum W. L. Ma, described from China in 1991, is illegitimately named, being a later homonym of E. bilobatum Morong, which was described from Mexico in 1892. The new name (nomen novum) E. kunmingense Z. X. Zhang was proposed in 1999, but the pagination of the entire paper in which the replaced name was published was cited, rather than the pages of the protologue only, so the new name is invalid. Therefore, E. kunmingense is validated here.
10.2307/3391547|A new species of Passiflora subg. Tacsonia is described from the Andes of southern Ecuador. Passiflora brachyantha is placed in section Bracteogama, where it most closely resembles another short-flowered species, P. glaberrima, which is endemic to Peru.
20406053|Brodiaea sierrae (Themidaceae), a new diploid species from the Sierra Nevada foothills of California, U.S.A., is described and illustrated. Morphologically, it is most similar to the tetraploid B. leptandra, from which it differs by having larger flowers, with perianth lobes up to 40 mm long (vs. 20-30 mm). The new species is also morphologically similar to B. californica but differs by the staminode morphology and by the lack of anther appendages. Although morphology and other data support a close relationship between the three species, they are geographically and edaphically disjunct in northern California.
10.2307/3392995|During the preparation of the account of the Crassulaceae for the Flora of China, Volume 8, it was decided that Phedimus Rafinesque should be separated from Sedum L. It is therefore necessary to publish new combinations in Phedimus for three varieties and one species previously recognized in Sedum: P. aizoon (L.) 't Hart var. latifolius (Maximowicz) H. Ohba, K. T. Fu & B. M. Bartholomew, comb. nov., P. aizoon var. scabrus (Maximowicz) H. Ohba, K. T. Fu & B. M. Bartholomew, comb. nov., P. aizoon var. yamatutae (Kitagawa) H. Ohba, K. T. Fu & B. M. Bartholomew, comb. nov., and P. hsinganicus (Y. C. Chu ex T. N. Liou) H. Ohba, K. T. Fu & B. M. Bartholomew, comb. nov. One subgeneric name, Phedimus subg. Aizoon (L. K. A. Koch ex Schnland) H. Ohba & Turland, is validated; it was first proposed by 't Hart but with an erroneous (and uncorrectable) basionym citation. The name Sedum aizoon L. var. scabrum Maximowicz is lectotypified.
10.2307/3391856|Se describe e ilustra a Pachycereus tepamo (Cactaceae, Cactoideae, Pachycereeae), una especie nueva de la cuenca baja del Ro Balsas, en el estado de Michoacn, Mxico. Se presentan datos sobre su hbitat, distribucin geogrfica y usos locales. Tambin se compara esta especie a partir de caracteres morfolgicos con P. grandis, P. pecten-aboriginum y P. weberi, consideradas las especies ms relacionadas. /// Pachycereus tepamo (Cactaceae, Cactoideae, Pachycereeae), a new species from the lower basin of the Balsas River, in the state of Michoacn, Mexico, is described and illustrated. Information concerning its habitat, geographic distribution, and uses is also presented. In addition, morphological characters are used to compare this species with P. grandis, P. pecten-aboriginum, and P. weberi, its closest allied species.
10.2307/3391436|Porotrichum tenuinerve sp. nov. differs from other species in the genus by its gonioautoicous condition and short, frequently double costae. A key to the species of Porotrichum in Central America is given, which incorporates synonymy proposed by Sastre-de Jess and Smith. Porotrichum mutabile Hampe, P. insularum Mitten, and P. plagiorhynchum Renauld & Cardot are tentatively placed in the synonymy of Porotrichum longirostre (Hooker) Mitten; Homaliodendron piniforme (Bridel) Enroth is reported for the first time from Central America (Panama).
10.2307/3393264|Delphinium lihengianum Q. E. Yang & Y. Luo, a new species of the Ranunculaceae from Yadong County, Xizang, is described and illustrated. This new species is similar to D. caeruleum Jacquemont, especially in the indumentum of the stem and pedicels and in the leaf divisions, but differs in having the staminodes bifid to the middle and three carpels.
41811665|Jacquemontia macrocalyx Buril (Convolvulaceae) is described from Morro do Chapu, Cadeia do Espinhao, Bahia, Brazil. The new species is related to J. heterantha (Nees & Mart.) Hallier f., but is distinguished by its fruticose habit and larger sepals. Its conservation status is assessed as Endangered (EN), according to IUCN Red List criteria. Jacquemontia macrocalyx Buril (Convolvulaceae)  descrita como endmica do Parque Estadual de Morro do Chapu, Cadeia do Espinhao, Bahia, Brasil. A nova espcie  similar a J. heterantha (Nees & Mart.) Hallier f., mas se distingue pelo hbito arbustivo e spalas maiores. O seu status de conservao  considerado como EN ou em risco de extino, de acordo com os critrios da IUCN.
20406126|A new combination in Microgramma C. Presl (Pteridophyta--Polypodiaceae) is proposed instead of M. fuscopunctata (Hooker) Vareschi, after the analysis of the type of Polypodium dictyophyllum Kunze ex Mettenius. Through the study of additional specimens and recent bibliography, the distributional pattern of this taxon for tropical America is specified. /// Se propone una nueva combinacin en Microgramma C. Presl (Pteridophyta--Polypodiaceae), sobre la base de Polypodium dictyophyllum Kunze ex Mettenius, en lugar de M. fuscopunctata (Hooker) Vareschi, despus de analizar el tipo del primer taxn nombrado. Estudiando otros especimenes y consultando bibliografa reciente, se precisa el rea de distribucin de esta especie en Amrica tropical.
10.2307/3392148|No valid type designation for Batis maritima L. currently exists. A neotype for this name is therefore selected here to fix the application of the name.
10.2307/3391467|In order to make names available for use in the Flora of China, the following combinations are made: Panzerina lanata var. alaschanica (L. Kuprianaov) H. W. Li, Panzerina lanata var. albescens (L. Kuprianova) H. W. Li, Panzerina lanata var. argyracea (L. Kuprianova) H. W. Li, and Panzerina lanata var. parviflora (C. Y. Wu & H. W. Li) H. W. Li.
23259422|A new species of Pyrrosia Mirb. (Polypodiaceae) with coenosori, which is found in the province Antsiranana in Madagascar, is described as P. avaratra Rakotondr. & Hovenkamp, with keys and an illustration.
3393434|A new species of Paronychia, P. revoluta, from the state of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil, is described and illustrated. This species is closely related to P. camphorosmoides, distinguished from it by linear-subulate leaves with a revolute margin and prominent midribs. It is also allied to P. fasciculata, from which it differs in the lanceolate, acuminate, fimbriate, and whitish stipules, and linear-subulate leaves.
10.2307/3393021|We describe a distinctive subspecies of Galvezia leucantha from the island of Santiago (San Salvador), Galapagos, Ecuador. The new subspecies, Galvezia leucantha subsp. porphyrantha Tye & H. Jger, is distinguished principally by its purple flowers and lack of pubescence. All three subspecies, and the species as a whole, have small and in some cases declining populations restricted to eroded scoria cliffs, and are considered Critically Endangered (CR) by IUCN criteria. /// Describimos una subespecie distintiva de Galvezia leucantha de la Isla Santiago (San Salvador), Galpagos, Ecuador. La nueva subespecie, Galvezia leucantha subsp. porphyrantha Tye & H. Jger, se distingue principalmente por sus flores purpreas y su falta de pubescencia. Las tres subespecies, y la especie en s, tienen poblaciones pequeas, en ciertos casos en declinacin, restringidas a acantilados de escoria erosionados, y se consideran En Peligro Crtico de Extincin (CR) segn los criterios de la UICN.
20406051|A new species of Camellia (Theaceae) endemic to the Dalat Plateau in southern Vietnam is described and illustrated: Camellia dongnaiensis. The newly described species has large pendulous, narrowly obovate leaves; two whorled, waxy, pendulous flowers exhibiting emarginate, graduated yellow-apricot to intensely pink petals; peduncles distinctly wider at the proximal end; a compound style consisting of six parts that are fused at the base for one third of their length; persistent bracteoles; and a superior five-chambered ovary. The morphological evidence supports taxonomic placement in Camellia sect. Piquetia (Pierre) Sealy.
10.2307/3391786|Twisselmannia californica, a new genus and species from Kings County, California, is described and illustrated. Its relationships to other mustard genera are discussed.
27765228|The green algal genus Basicladia W. E. Hoffman & Tilden suggested for synonymy in Cladophora Ktz. by van den Hoek is reconfirmed as a genus based on the distinct basal system and the primarily epizoic habit associated with freshwater turtles. Previously assigned to Cladophora sect. Basicladia (W. E. Hoffmann & Tilden) C. Hoek, C. koslerae C. Hoek (type: France) and C. okamurae (S. Ueda) C. Hoek (type: Japan) transfer to Basicladia, based on morphology and molecular evidence. The two new combinations B. kosterae (C. Hoek) Garbary and B. okamurae (S. Ueda) Carbary bring the number of species in Basicladia to seven.
10.2307/3393529|Recent molecular studies, combined with critical evaluation of morphology, support a revision of the generic placement of five species of Sisymbrium (Brassicaceae). Sisymbrium aculeolatum and S. afghanicum (formerly in Neotorularia) and S. linifolium (formerly in Schoenocrambe) should be maintained in Sisymbrium. A new name, Erucastrum austroafricanum, is proposed to accommodate the transfer of S. thellungii to Erucastrum and to avoid the creation of a latter homonym. A new combination, E. supinum, is proposed to transfer S. supinum to Erucastrum.
10.2307/3392182|In advance of treatment in the Flora of Australia and other publications, four new taxa of Melaleuca are described and illustrated: M. cajuputi subsp. platyphylla Barlow, M. clarksonii Barlow, M. fluviatilis Barlow, and M. stipitata Craven; and two new combinations are made: M. cajuputi subsp. cumingiana (Turczaninow) Barlow and M. squamophloia (Byrnes) Craven.
10.2307/3392237|Polycarpon coquimbense Gereau & Marticorena (Caryophyllaceae) is described from central Chile, a key to and a brief conspectus of the South American species of Polycarpon are provided, and P. australis Britton is reduced to synonymy under P. suffruticosum Grisebach. /// Se presentan la descripcin de Polycarpon coquimbense Gereau & Marticorena (Caryophyllaceae) proveniente de Chile central, una clave y una sinopsis de las especies sudamericanas de Polycarpon; y P. australis Britton est ubicado en la sinonimia de P. suffruticosum Grisebach.
20406067|Taxonomic revision of the populations belonging to the Anthyllis hermanniae L. species complex (Fabaceae, Faboideae) of the Mediterranean flora is given. Two distinct species are recognized: A. hystrix (Willkomm ex Barcel) Cardona, Contandriopoulos & Sierra, restricted to Minorca (Balearic Islands), and A. hermanniae, widespread in the central and eastern Mediterranean area. Within A. hermanniae, seven new subspecies are recognized: subspecies hermanniae (northeastern Mediterranean area), subspecies melitensis (Maltese Archipelago, Malta), subspecies sicula (Italy, Sicily), subspecies brutia (Italy, Calabria), subspecies japygica (Italy, Apulia), subspecies ichnusae (Italy, Sardinia), and subspecies corsica (France, Corsica). Each of these new taxa is described and illustrated. A key of the surveyed taxa is provided.
23259343|A total of 13 new species of Viscaceae are described and illustrated for the genera Dendrophthora Eichler and Phoradendron Nutt. Dendrophthora erythrantha Kuijt is established from La Paz, Bolivia; P. palandensis is described from Zamora-Chinchipe, Ecuador. Eight species are newly described from Peru: five from Cajamarca (D. cryptantha Kuijt, D. microphylla Kuijt, D. subsessilis Kuijt, P. alatum Kuijt, and P. camposii Kuijt); two from Amazonas (D. verrucosa Kuijt and P. nickrentianum Kuijt); and one from Chachapoyas (P. prolongatum Kuijt). Three species are described from Venezuela: one from Carabobo (P. concinnum Kuijt) and two from Miranda (D. mirandensis Kuijt and P. mirandensis Kuijt).
3393353|A new species of Beilschmiedia, previously recognized by Kostermans but never published, is described as B. oligantha and illustrated. This new species differs from the other Bornean Beilschmiedia species in the combination of the following characters: long erect trichomes on twigs, six to ten pairs of secondary leaf veins, relatively large pale red flowers, and stamens with short pubescent filaments.
3393503|Ilex Xaquipernyi J. B. Gable ex Whittemore (Ilex aquifolium x I. pernyi), a name that has been commonly used in the horticultural literature and the nursery trade for some 60 years, is validated here. It is known only from artificial crosses.
40856273|TWO new species of Ocotea Aubl. (Lauraceae) from the restinga of Brazil are described and illustrated. Ocotea arenicola L. C. S. Assis & Mello-Silva and ramosissima L. C. S. Assis & Mello-Silva are discovered from Esprito Santo and Bahia states, respectively. Their diagnostic features are indicated, and their relationships to other Ocotea species are discussed. Duas espcies novas de Ocotea Aubl. (Lauraceae) da restinga do Brasil so descritas e ilustradas. Ocotea arenicola L. C. S. Assis & Mello-Silva e ramosissima L. C. S. Assis & Mello-Silva so respectivamente descobertas nos Estados do Esprito Santo e Bahia. Suas caractersticas diagnsticas so indicadas e suas relaes com outras espcies de Ocotea so discutidas.
20406280|Anticipating the full revision of the New World genus Orthosia Decaisne (Asclepiadeae, Orthosiinae), the following new combinations for 14 taxa formerly placed in Amphistelma Grisebach, Cynanchum L., Metastelma R. Brown, Tassadia Decaisne, and Vincetoxicum Wolf are provided: Orthosia bonplandiana (Roemer & Schultes) Liede & Meve, O. calycina (Schlechter) Liede & Meve, O. cardozoi (Morillo) Liede & Meve, O. cassythoides (Suessenguth) Liede & Meve, O. ellemannii (Morillo) Liede & Meve, O. guilleminiana (Decaisne) Liede & Meve, O. henriqueana (Silveira) Liede & Meve, O. meridensis (Morillo) Liede & Meve, O. parviflora (E. Fournier) Liede & Meve, O. pearcei (Rusby) Liede & Meve, O. pubescens (Greenman) Liede & Meve, O. scoparia (Nuttall) Liede & Meve, O. selloana (E. Fournier) Liede & Meve, and O. stannardii (Morillo) Liede & Meve. Full and comprehensive synonymies for O. scoparia and O. guilleminiana are given to preclude the confusing use of many different names for these widely distributed species. Lectotypification for 14 taxa is presented: Amphistelma ephedroides Grisebach, A. filiforme Grisebach, A. riedelii E. Fournier, A. selloanum E. Fournier, Astephanus pubescens Greenman, Cynanchum bonplandianum Roemer & Schultes, C. trilobulatum Lillo, Metastelma angustifolium Turczaninow, M. atrorubens Schlechter, M. calycinum Schlechter, M. fawcettii Schlechter, M. peruvianum Schlechter, M. rariflorum Schlechter, and M. retinaculatum Schlechter. Orthosia woodii Meve & Liede, a new endemic species from Bolivia, is described and illustrated.
27765229|The study of collections from the RB herbarium in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, allows the lectotypification of three names in the Asteraceae: Baccharis hoehneana Teodoro, B. paulopolitana Teodoro & W. Hoehne, and B. wilsoniana Teodoro. Additionally, the name B. lymanii G. M. Barroso ex G. Heiden is validated by the indication of a holotype.
41811688|A new fern species, Polystichum normale Ching ex P. S. Wang & Li Bing Zhang (Dryopteridaceae), is described from Guizhou and illustrated for section Crucifilix Tagawa. Distributed in southern Chongqing, northeastern and southeastern Guizhou, and northwestern Hunan, China, the new species is morphologically similar to P. tripteron (Kunze) C. Presl and P. hancockii (Hance) Diels. Polystichum normale has toothed and oblong or almost rectangular pinnae with an acute apex. In contrast, P. tripteron has coarsely serrate and falcate-lanceolate pinnae with an acuminate apex. While P. normale has sori close to the pinna margins, indusia 0.6-0.8 mm in diameter, and a perispore with an irregularly perforate sculpture, P. hancockii has sori closer to the costa, indusia 0.3-0.4 mm in diameter, and a perispore with reticulate sculpture. It is considered Vulnerable (VU), based on IUCN Red List criteria.
20406223|The newly circumscribed dioecious group (sensu Razafimandimbison et al.) of tribe Vanguerieae in the subfamily Ixoroideae (Rubiaceae) comprises over 200 species classified in four morphologically distinct genera: Cyclophyllum Hooker f., Peponidium (Baillon) Arnes, Pyrostria Commerson ex Jussieu, and one new genus affined to species of Canthium subg. Bullockia Bridson. Here, we present a total of 37 new combinations, 20 of which are in Peponidium: P. alleizettei (Dubard & Dop) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. andringitrense (Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. ankaranense (Arnes ex Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. anoveanum (Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. arenesianum (Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. blepharodon (Arnes ex Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. boinense (Arnes ex Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. bosseri (Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. buxifolium (Baker) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer (lectotypified here), P. cystiporon (Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. decaryi (Homolle ex Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. humbertianum (Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. latiflorum (Homolle ex Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. mandrarense (Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. marojejyense (Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. sahafaryense (Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. subevenium (K. Schumann) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. tamatavense (Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. venulosum (Boivin ex Baillon) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, and P. viguieri (Homolle ex Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer. The other 17 new combinations are in Pyrostria: P. ambongensis (Homolle ex Arnes) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. ampijoroensis (Arnes) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. ankaranensis (Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. antsalovensis (Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. asosa (Arnes) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. capuronii (Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. ixorifolia (Homolle ex Arnes) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. longiflora (Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. neriifolia (Homolle ex Arnes) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. oleifolia (Homolle ex Arnes) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. perrieri (Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. revoluta (Balfour f.) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. richardiae (Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. sambavensis (Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. suarezensis (Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. tulearensis (Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, and P. verdcourtii (Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer. Finally, three new names, Peponidium sakalavense Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, Pyrostria antsirananensis Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, and Pyrostria louvelii Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, are published here.
10.2307/3393014|Three new species of Siparuna (Siparunaceae) are described, illustrated, and placed in a phylogenetic context: S. gentryana from western Ecuador and adjacent Colombia, S. lozaniana from the western Andes in Colombia, and S. vasqueziana from Amazonian Peru. In addition, Siparuna calantha from the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta, originally described by Janet Perkins as a variety of a Mexican entity, is raised to species rank because its broader leaves and more numerous carpels readily distinguish it from its apparent closest relative, a species from the western Colombian Andes. Each of the species is known from several collections, which allowed the secure matching of sexual morphs in the three that are dioecious.
10.2307/3393222|Descriptions and illustrations are presented for the new species Coussarea antioquiana from northwestern Colombia, C. brevipedunculata from Panama, C. duplex from eastern Costa Rica, C. grandifructa from southwestern Costa Rica, and C. izabalensis from Guatemala, and for the new subspecies C. loftonii (Dwyer & M. V. Hayden) Dwyer subsp. occidentalis from southern Costa Rica. This third subspecies of C. loftonii comprises the westernmost populations of this morphologically variable species. /// Aqu se describen y se ilustran las especies nuevas Coussarea antioquiana del noroeste de Colombia, C. brevipedunculata de Panam, C. duplex del este de Costa Rica, C. grandifructa del sur de Costa Rica y C. izabalensis de Guatemala, adems la subespecie nueva C. loftonii (Dwyer & M. V. Hayden) Dwyer subsp. occidentalis del sur de Costa Rica. Esta tercera subespecie de C. loftonii incluye las poblaciones ms occidentales de esta especie morfologicamente variable.
40300936|A new genus, Neocupressus de Laubenfels, is erected for the New World cypresses (Cupressaceae) to separate them from Callitropsis Oersted, where they have recently been placed. This is based on several sharp morphological distinctions. A new hybrid nothogenus, XNeocupropsis de Laubenfels, is also erected to accommodate hybrid species from various species of Neocupressus and Callitropsis. The new combinations are: Neocupressus arizonica (Greene) de Laubenfels, N. arizonica var. glabra (Sudworth) de Laubenfels, N. arizonica var. nevadensis (Abrams) de Laubenfels, N. arizonica var. montana (Wiggins) de Laubenfels, N. bakeri (Jepson) de Laubenfels, N. goveniana (Gordon) de Laubenfels, N. goveniana var. abramsiana (C. B. Wolf) de Laubenfels, N. goveniana var. pygmaea (Lemmon) de Laubenfels, N. guadalupensis (S. Watson) de Laubenfels, N. guadalupensis var. forbesii (Jepson) de Laubenfels, N. lusitanica (Miller) de Laubenfels, N. lusitanica var. lindleyi (Klotzsch in Endlicher) de Laubenfels, N. macnabiana (A. Murray bis) de Laubenfels, N. macrocarpa (Hartweg) de Laubenfels, N. sargentii (Jepson) de Laubenfels, XNeocupropsis leylandii (A. B. Jackson & Dallimore) de Laubenfels, XN. notabilis (A. F. Mitchell) de Laubenfels, and XN. ovensii (A. F. Mitchell) de Laubenfels. A lectotype is selected for N. lusitanica var. lindleyi.
40960836|A new monotypic genus, Oncaglossum Sutor, endemic to central Mexico, is described based on Cynoglossum pringlei Greenm. from the state of Mexico and belongs within the tribe Cynoglosseae of the Boraginaceae. The new genus is related to Cynoglossum L. subg. Eleutherostylum (Brand) Riedl and can be distinguished from the North American species currently classified in Cynoglossum by its calyx with imbricate, colored, and broadly ovate sepals, the corolla lobes reduced to narrow strips, anthers on short filaments inserted on the corolla margin, the stigma in the form of a lenticular disc, and tricolporate pollen grains with an additional aperture in their polar region.
20406027|A terrestrial orchid, Palmorchis caxiuanensis, is described from the Amazonian rain forest of Par State, northern Brazil. Flowers and habit are illustrated. This species is clearly allied to Palmorchis sobralioides, P. guianensis, and P. duckei, but is distinguished by the length of the petiole, lip, and column. /// Uma orqudea terrestre, Palmorchis caxiuanensis,  descrita para Amaznia, estado do Par, Norte do Brasil. Flores e hbito so ilustrados. Esta espcie  prxima de Palmorchis sobralioides, P. guianensis e P. Duckei, diferindo basicamente pelo comprimento do pecolo, labelo e coluna.
10.2307/3392978|The status of Nasturtium tibeticum is discussed, and the new combination Dontostemon tibeticus is proposed. Accounts of N. tibeticum in some Chinese floras are based on plants of the new species Phaeonychium fengii. The distinguishing characters of Nasturtium, Dontostemon, and Phaeonychium are presented.
40960831|New combinations are proposed for four names in Chinese Adenophora Fisch. (Campanulaceae), with three names also changing in rank: A. capillaris Hemsl. subsp. paniculata (Nannf.) D. Y. Hong & S. Ge, A. petiolata Pax & K. Hoffm. subsp. huadungemsis (D. Y. Hong) D. Y. Hong & S. Ge. A. petiolata subsp. hunanensis (Nannf.) D. Y. Hong & S. Ge, and A. stricta Miq. subsp. aurita (Franch.) D. Y. Hong & S. Ge. Lectotypes are designated for the following names: A. capillaris, A. capillaris subsp. leptosepala (Diels) D. Y. Hong [ A. leptosepala Diels], A. liliifolioides Pax & K. Hoffm., A. polyantha Nakai, and A. chanetii (H. Lv.) D. F. Chamb. [ Campanula chanetii H. Lv.].
10.2307/3393101|While preparing a monographic study of Eleutherococcus, we discovered the three new taxa, E. brachypus var. omeiensis, E. huangshanensis, and E. pseudosetulosus, described here. In addition, three new combinations, E. divaricatus var. chiisanensis, E. pilosulus, and E. pubescens, are proposed.
10.2307/3391843|On the basis of pollen morphology and floral characters, Ipomoea caloxantha is transferred to Merremia.
10.2307/3391385|Galaxia fenestralis is new a species from central interior Namaqualand, Cape Province, South Africa. Apparently most closely related to another Namaqualand endemic, G. kamiesmontana Goldblatt, G. fenestralis is distinguished by its terete, succulent leaves, and small light pink to mauve or whitish flowers with a yellow center and narrowly clawed tepals. It grows on exposed granite outcrops in virtually no soil, and flowers early in the rainy season, in June and July, a few weeks after the first of the season's rains have fallen.
40856302|Croton rufolepidotus Caruzo & Riina (Euphorbiaceae s. str.), a new species from Colombia, is here described and illustrated. The new species is endemic to an area of lowland secondary forests in Antioquia. Morphological characters indicate that this species belongs to Croton sect. Cleodora (Klotzsch) Baill. due to its arborescent habit, petiolar glands, 15 to 25 stamens, as well as the pistillate flowers with imbricate sepals and multifid styles.
10.2307/3393097|The new species Aureliana angustifolia (Solanaceae) from a secondary forest of Juiz de Fora, in southeastern Brazil, is described. It is distinguished by its narrowly lanceolate leaves, by the brief and triangular calyx lobes, and by the subglobose fruits with a thin pericarp. The style length dimorphism with the lack of the stigmatic papillae on the short style suggests that it is an andromonoecious species.
3393396|A monographic revision of Alloplectus (Gesneriaceae) has revealed four species new to science from Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru. These species are described here and include A. carpishensis from Peru, A. inflatus from Colombia, A. serpens from Colombia and Ecuador, and A. oblongicalyx from Colombia and Ecuador.
23018481|A new species of Peperomia Ruiz & Pav., P. rivulamans Silverst. (Piperacaeae), is described from the Cauca Valley, Colombia. The new species is saxicolous and inhabits forested creek banks. It differs from all other known peltate-leaved species of Peperomia in the following combination of characters: rhizome creeping, with internodes very short (less than 1 cm); petioles very long (to 22 cm); leaves ovate, white on abaxial surface; inflorescences simple (not paniculate) and axillary; floral bracts mucronate, butterfly-shaped, imbricate at their corners, forming a roof above the fertile rachis, with openings for the ovary and anthers, each opening surrounded by four bracts; ovary turbinate, stigma bifid, apical; and fruits sessile, subclavate, not rostrate. Based on its morphology, the new species is placed in Peperomia subg. Tildenia Miq., but a published study of chloroplast DNA has shown that subgenus Tildenia is polyphyletic. Una nueva especie de Peperomia Ruiz & Pav., P. rivulamans Silverst. (Piperaceae), se describe del valle geogrfico del ro Cauca, Colombia. Es saxcola, y se encuentra en bosque en las orillas de quebradas. Difiere de todas las otras especies conocidas de Peperomia que presentan hojas peltadas en la siguiente combinacin de caracteres: rizoma rastrero, con entrenudos muy cortos (menos de 1 cm); pecolos muy largos (hasta 22 cm); hojas ovadas, blancas en la superficie abaxial; inflorescencias simples (no paniculadas) y axilares; brcteas florales mucronadas, de forma de mariposa, traslapndose en sus ngulos, formando un techo sobre el raquis frtil, con aberturas para el ovario y las anteras, cada abertura rodeada por cuatro brcteas; ovario turbinado, estigma bfido, apical; y frutos ssiles, subclavados, no rostrados. Con base en su morfologa, la nueva especie se coloca en Peperomia subg. Tildenia Miq., pero un estudio publicado de DNA de cloroplasto ha mostrado que el subgnero Tildenia es polifiltica.
10.2307/3393013|Recent DNA studies support the recognition of four new combinations for species originally assigned to Scirpus. Trichophorum rigidum has a single pseudolateral spikelet and lacks perianth segments. Scirpoides burkei has a woody rhizome, compact globose inflorescences, and spirally arranged glumes and lacks perianth segments. Ficinia trollii is a robust species lacking perianth segments. Ficinia nodosa has a woody rhizome and a gynophore.
10.2307/3392147|Characteristics of Begonia sect. Weilbachia (Klotzsch & Oersted) A. DC. (Begoniaceae) are discussed, and four new species in the section, B. almedana, B. hondurensis, B. faustinoi, and B. turrialbae, are described, illustrated, and compared with other species in the section.
10.2307/3391827|Peltostigma parviflorum Q. Jimnez & Gereau is reduced to synonymy under P. guatemalense (Standley & Steyermark) Gereau, comb. nov., based on Galipea guatemalensis Standley & Steyermark.
10.2307/3393177|Moraea melanops, M. deltoidea, M. vespertina, and M. vigilans are new species of the southern African genus Moraea (ca. 195 species), of subfamily Iridoideae of the Iridaceae. Moraea vespertina belongs to subgenus Visciramosa, now comprising six species. It has the characteristic branched stems, viscous secretion on the nodes and internodes, and free, connivent anthers of the subgenus, but is distinctive in its white flowers that open for a few hours in the late afternoon, and basal fan of four to six, firm-textured leaves. Moraea deltoidea, from the Klein River Mountains in Western Cape Province, and M. vigilans, from the northern high Drakensberg of Free State and KwaZulu-Natal, belong in subgenus Vieusseuxia and are allied to the M. unguiculata complex of the subgenus. Moraea deltoidea has vestigial style branches and inner tepals that are more or less entire to obscurely three-lobed. Moraea melanops is the eighth species of section Galaxia series Eurystigma, one of two series of the exclusively western southern African section of 16 species distributed from the Bredasdorp District of Western Cape Province to northern Namaqualand in Northern Cape Province. Vegetatively resembling other Western Cape species, including M. barnardiella and M. versicolor, M. melanops can be distinguished by its purple to lilac perianth with a dark purple-black center, and stamens partly to entirely free; like M. barnardiella it has laxly spreading tepals that do not form a floral cup.
10.2307/3392255|Paspalum morichalense is described, illustrated, and compared to related species of the group Dissecta. It occurs in Venezuela, Surinam, Brazil, and Bolivia. Its confusion with Paspalum commutatum Nees and Paspalum lacustre Chase ex Swallen is discussed.
10.2307/3392159|Two new species of Velloziaceae, Vellozia auriculata and V. gigantea, from Espinhao Range, Minas Gerais, Brazil, are described. Both are characterized by a large dracenoid habit. Vellozia auriculata has large tepal appendages and is endemic to the Ambrsio Range, northeast of the Diamantina plateau. It reproduces in an unusual way, with conspicuous vegetative propagation by lodging branches. Vellozia gigantea may attain a height of up to 6 m, being the largest species of Vellozia so far described. Its one known population is located within the limits of the National Park of Serra do Cip. Morphological and anatomical descriptions as well as illustrations of both species are presented. Comments are made on their geographic distribution and putative taxonomic relationships. A key to the accepted species with dracenoid habit related to Vellozia auriculata and V. gigantea, and comments on the delimitation of this group are also presented.
10.2307/3392145|A new species, Gibsoniothamnus parvifolius, is described based on disjunct populations from Costa Rica and western Panama. The species is distinguished by its relatively small, acuminate leaves, few-flowered inflorescences, and its relatively small, purplish flowers borne on short pedicels.
10.2307/3391567|Revision of the Ochnaceae for Flora Mesoamericana brought to light eight new species of Ouratea. These species are described here: O. osaensis and O. rinconensis from the Rincn de Osa area of Costa Rica, and O. jefensis, O. knappiae, O. darienensis, O. stenobasis, O. sulcatinervia, and O. tristis from Panama.
10.2307/3393162|During a revision of Lantana (Verbenaceae), an undescribed species was discovered from Brazil. Lippia magentea, which is named for its corolla color, is a hirsute shrub from Bahia and Minas Gerais. Inflorescences in Lippia magentea do not exceed the leaves, and its fruits have two pyrenes.
3393487|We describe Bourreria grayumii (Ehretiaceae) as new from Costa Rica, near the Nicaraguan border. It is illustrated, and a distribution map is provided. The new species may be closely related to Bourreria huanita, as both share schizocarpous fruits, an unusual and specialized character in Bourreria.
10.2307/3391491|The new combination Psiguria dunlapii is made, and a key to the three Mesoamerican species of Psiguria is given.
40300870|Two new dioecious species of Symplocos Jacquin from southern Brazil are described and illustrated. Both species belong to section Barberina (Vellozo) A. DC. of subgenus Symplocos. Symplocos bidana Aranha is characterized by its cymose or racemose inflorescences (9.5-) 11-34 mm long, corolla with five or six lobes 3.7-4.9 mm long, and fruits (10-) 13-20 X 5-10 mm with the calyx lobes covering the fruiting disc. Symplocos incrassata Aranha is characterized by its reduced cymes, bracts caducous in fruit, and fruits 12-18 X (5-) 6-8 mm. In addition, both species have thick endocarps (0.8-1.2 mm), a notable character among the Brazilian species of section Barberina /// Duas novas especies dioicas de Symplocos Jacquin do sul do Brazil sao descritas e ilustradas, do subgenero Symplocos, sec, ao Barberina (Vellozo) A. DC. Symplocos bidana Aranha e reconhecida por sua inflorescencia cimosa ou racemosa (9.5) 11 34 mm compr., corola com 5 a 6 lobos com 3.7-4.9 mm compr., e frutos (10-) 13-20 X 5-10 mm com lobos do calice cobrindo o disco no fruto. Symplocos incrassata Aranha  reconhecida por suas cimeiras reduzidas (47 mm compr.), brcteas caducas no fruto, e fruto 1218 X (5-) 6-8 mm. Alm disso, as novas espcies sao distintas pela espessura de seus endocarpos, 0.8-1.2 mm, raro entre as espcies brasileiras de Barberina.
10.2307/3391924|The new combination Alibertia utleyorum (Dwyer) C. M. Taylor is made, and the new species Alibertia premontana, Pentagonia involucrata, Remijia uniflora, and Rudgea sanblasensis are described and illustrated.
10.2307/3393230|Nanuza almeidae Alves and N. luetzelburgii Alves are described as new species of the previously monotypic Nanuza L. B. Smith & Ayensu (Velloziaceae). Nanuza almeidae is distinguished from Nanuza plicata and N. luetzelburgii mainly by leaf blades basally narrowed into a pseudopetiole, linear-lanceolate tepals, triangular filaments with a flattened base, and presence of labdane-type diterpenes. Nanuza luetzelburgii is distinguished from both other species by rounded edges on the trigonous caudex, lamina with furrows with abundant, sturdy hairs, vestigial adaxial furrows, and serrulate sheath margins, lacking the filaments typical of the closely related N. plicata and N. almeidae, and by presence of heptadecenic acid. Xerophytolic acid was found in Nanuza plicata but not in both new species. /// Nanuza almeidae Alves e N. luetzelburgii Alves so descritas como espcies novas do gnero at ento considerado monotpico, com apenas Nanuza plicata (Martius) L. B. Smith & Ayensu (Velloziaceae). Nanuza almeidae se distingue de Nanuza plicata e N. luetzelburgii pelas tpalas linear-lanceoladas, limbo foliar na base estreitado em pseudopecolo, mais largo e curto, adaxialmente glabrescente, filetes triangulares com base achatada e pela presena de diterpenos do tipo labdano. Nanuza luetzelburgii se distingue de N. plicata e N. almeidae pelas margens arredondadas do caudex trgono, preenchimento dos sulcos no limbo por abundantes plos rgidos, sulcos vestigiais na face adaxial, bainhas foliares com margens serreadas, sem as cerdas caractersticas de N. plicata e N. almeidae, bem como pela presena de cido heptadecnico. Nanuza plicata se distingue das espcies novas pela presena de cido xerofitlico.
10.2307/3391544|In anticipation of the upcoming revision of the Jepson Manual of the Flowering Plants of California, the following 10 new nomenclatural combinations of Californian Castilleja subg. Castilleja at the subspecific level are proposed: C. affinis subsp. litoralis (Pennell) Chuang & Heckard, C. affinis subsp. neglecta (Zeile) Chuang & Heckard, C. applegatei subsp. disticha (Eastwood) Chuang & Heckard, C. applegatei subsp. martinii (Abrams) Chuang & Heckard, C. applegatei subsp. pallida (Eastwood) Chuang & Heckard, C. applegatei subsp. pinetorum (Fernald) Chuang & Heckard, C. hispida subsp. brevilobata (Piper) Chuang & Heckard, C. lanata subsp. hololeuca (Greene) Chuang & Heckard, C. minor subsp. spiralis (Jepson) Chuang & Heckard, and C. subinclusa subsp. franciscana (Pennell) Chuang & Heckard. The justification for these nomenclatural changes is briefly summarized.
10.2307/3391891|A new genus and species of trees from mesic forests of lowland western Ecuador, Ecuadendron acosta-solisianum, is described. The new taxon is a canopy tree and is known from only three localities separated by a gap of 350 km. Ecuadendron is placed in the "Brownea group" of the tribe Detarieae (Fabaceae: Caesalpinioideae), and its closest relatives appear to include the monotypic Brachycylix from north-central Colombia, and Heterostemon and Elizabetha from the Guayana Shield area. With its long pendent inflorescences and particular suite of floral features, Ecuadendron appears to be adapted to pollination by bats.
10.2307/3393383|The new species Bashania aristata of Bambusoideae (Poaceae) from the giant panda's habitat of Mt. Qinling, Shaanxi, China, is described and illustrated. The new species differs from B. fargesii in its fully developed culm sheath auricles and aristate lemmas and from B. qingchenshanensis in its fully developed culm sheath auricles and in its lack of auricle leaf sheaths. Its relationship to the other species of Bashania is discussed along with the status of this genus.
20406018|A new species of Drymonia Martius, D. rubripilosa, is described, illustrated, and compared to D. multiflora (Oersted ex Hanstein) Wiehler, its closest presumed relative. The new species is distinguished by its sparsely to densely red-pilose stem apices, petioles, pedicels, calyxes, corollas, and ovaries. Its bivalved, fleshy capsule with fleshy indehiscent endocarp concealing the seeds is unique for Costa Rican species, shared otherwise only with D. folsomii and D. multiflora. Taxonomic comparison with D. multiflora and keys to separate the latter from D. rubripilosa are discussed. /// Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie de Drymonia Martius, D. rubripilosa, y se la compara con D. multiflora (Oersted ex Hanstein) Wiehler, especie que se presume es su pariente ms cercana. La nueva especie se distingue por sus ramitas distales, pecolos, pedicelos, clices, corolas y ovarios esparcidmode-oderadamente rojo-pilosos. Su cpsula bivalvada, carnosa, con el endocarpo indehiscente y carnoso, que cubre a las semillas, es nico para las especies costarricenses, y compartido nicamente con D. folsomii y D. multiflora. Se hace la comparacin taxonmica con D. multiflora y se discuten las claves para separar a sta de D. rubripilosa.
20406322|Ouratea acicularis R. Chacon & K. Yamamoto (Ochnaceae), a new species from the recently created Estao Ecolgica Serra Geral do Tocantins, Jalapo region, Brazil, is described. Ouratea acicularis appears to be most closely allied to O. oleifolia (A. Saint-Hilaire) Engler. Both species share a pubescent indumentum on the young branches, leaf surfaces, inflorescence axes, and outer surface of the flower buds, as well as revolute leaves and acute flower buds. Ouratea acicularis is unique in the genus in its aciculate leaf blade, at least 4 times narrower than in O. oleifolia, with a strongly revolute margin that conceals the abaxial leaf surface except for the midrib, as well as its inconspicuous secondary venation and narrower flower buds. Anatomically, O. acicularis differs from other previously studied species of Ouratea Aublet in that the cells of the adaxial epidermis have an hourglass-shaped lumen, pluricellular forked hairs fused at the base, an unusually large cap of fibers and sclereids above the collateral vascular bundles, and in the predominantly 2-layered chlorenchyma. The stems of O. acicularis are noteworthy for the conspicuous secretory cavities of the cortex and secondary xylem, in which fibers and vessel members predominate. /// Este trabalho descreve Ouratea acicularis R. Chacon & K. Yamamoto (Ochnaceae), espcie novada recentemente criada Estao Ecolgica Serra Geral do Tocantins, Regio do Jalapo, Tocantins, Brasil. Ouratea acicularis se assemelha mais a O. oleifolia (A. Saint-Hilaire) Engler. Ambas as espcies apresentam indumento pubescente nos ramos jovens, em ambas as faces foliares, nos eixos da inflorescncia e na superfcie externa dos botes florais, bem como folhas revolutas e botes florais agudos. Ouratea acicularis  a nica espcie do gnero que possui lminas foliares aciculares, ca. quatro vezes mais estreitas do que em O. oleifolia, com margens foliares fortemente revolutas que escondem a face abaxial da folha exceto a nervura mediana, bem como pela venao secundria inconspcua e botes florais mais estreitos. Anatomicamente, O. acicularis difere das outras espcies j estudadas por apresentar clulas da epiderme adaxial com lmen em forma de ampulheta, tricomas pluricelulares fundidos na base, uma capa excepcionalmente desenvolvida de fibras e escleredeos sobre os feixes vasculares colaterais, e clornquima predominantemente bi-estratificado. Os ramos de O. acicularis so dignos de nota pela presena de cavidades secretoras conspcuas no crtex e pelo predomnio das fibras e dos elementos de vaso e xilema secundrio.
27765223|The new species Astragalus beitashanensis W. Chai & P. Yan (Leguminosae) is described from Xinjiang, China. Astragalus beitashanensis is similar to A. laguroides Pall., but differs by its elliptic to suborbicular leaflets that are 49 X 3-6 mm, ovate bracts, and deeply emarginate standard.
10.2307/3392128|A new species of Lilaeopsis, L. mauritiana, is described and illustrated. The species is endemic to Mauritius (southwest Indian Ocean), where it has been found at a single locality in Le Val Nature Park. The predominantly temperate and alpine genus Lilaeopsis has not previously been recognized from Mauritius.
10.2307/3391598|Draba barclayana, a new Colombian species endemic to the Cordillera Oriental, is described, and the characters distinguishing it from the nearest relative, the Ecuadorian endemic D. spruceana, are given.
10.2307/3391880|Obtegomeria Doroszenko & P. D. Cantino, a new genus based on Satureja sect. Obtectae Epling & Jtiva, is distinguished from the rest of the Satureja complex by the combination of stiffly ascending, replicate leaves, lower lip of the corolla nearly to fully as long as the tube, and reticulate pollen. Obtegomeria is monotypic and endemic to Colombia. The new combination Obtegomeria caerulescens (Bentham) Doroszenko & P. D. Cantino is provided.
23259348|In a recent revision of Gouania Jacq. (Rhamnaceae) for Madagascar and other western Indian Ocean islands, confusion about the correct date of publication of Lamarck's Encyclopdie Mthodique caused the authors to overlook the nomenclatural priority of G. tiliifolia Lam. over the heterotypic synonym G. scandens (Gaertn.) R. B. Drumm. The error is corrected, and the new combination G. tiliifolia subsp. glandulosa (Boivin ex Tul.) Buerki, Phillipson & Callm. is provided for its non-typical subspecies. Lors de la rcente rvision du genre Gouania Jacq. (Rhamnaceae)  Madagascar et incluant les autres les de l'Ocan Indien occidental, une confusion sur la date exacte de publication de l'Encyclopdie Mthodique de Lamarck a eu pour consquence une omission dans la priorit nomenclaturale de G. tiliifolia Lam. sur le synonyme htrotypique G. scandens (Gaertn.) R. B. Drumm. Cette erreur est corrige et la nouvelle combinaison G. tiliifolia subsp. glandulosa (Boivin ex Tul.) Buerki, Phillipson & Callm. est propose pour sa sous-espce non-typique.
23018504|Five new species of Gentianella Moench (Gentianaceae) are described from western South America. Gentianella decemnectaria J. S. Pringle, from Peru, is characterized by decumbent stems and nearly rotate corollas with 10 nectaries per corolla. Gentianella pluvialis J. S. Pringle, from Bolivia, is similar to G. florida (Griseb.) Holub, differing in its larger flowers with bright yellow corollas. Gentianella pyrostelium J. S. Pringle, from Peru, is characterized by its columnar habit and red and yellow, scarcely opening corollas. Gentianella rugicalyx J. S. Pringle, from Peru, differs from G. paludicola (Gilg) J. S. Pringle in its wider, abruptly acute calyx lobes and corolla tube that widens more gradually, and from G. persquarrosa (Reimers) J. S. Pringle in its leafier stems and glabrous corollas. Gentianella sanchezii J. S. Pringle, from Peru, is characterized by slender, clustered stems arising from a persistent rosette, pedicels mostly longer than the internodes, and widely funnelform, purplish pink corollas. Se describen cinco nuevas especies de Gentianella Moench (Gentianaceae) del oeste de Amrica del Sur. Gentianella decemnectaria J. S. Pringle, del Per, se caracteriza por los tallos decumbentes y las corolas casi rotceas las cuales llevan 10 nectarios. Gentianella pluvialis J. S. Pringle, de Bolivia, se parece a G. florida (Griseb.) Holub pero se diferencia por las flores ms grandes y las corolas amarillas intensas. Gentianella pyrostelium J. S. Pringle, del Per, se caracteriza por el hbito columnar y las corolas rojas y amarillas las cuales apenas se abren. Gentianella rugicalyx J. S. Pringle, del Per, se diferencia de G. paludicola (Gilg) J. S. Pringle por los lbulos del cliz ms anchos y abruptamente agudos y por el tubo de la corola el cual se ensancha ms gradualmente, y de G. persquarrosa (Reimers) J. S. Pringle por los tallos ms hojosos y las corolas glabras. Gentianella sanchezii J. S. Pringle, del Per, se caracteriza por los tallos delgados agrupados sobre la roseta persistente, los pedicelos en su mayora ms largos que los entrenudos, y las corolas anchamente infundibuliformes lilacino-rosceas.
40300872|A new species belonging to the genus Cinnamodendron Endlicher (Canellaceae) is described: C. occhionianum F. Barros & J. Salazar. The new species is known only from Cardoso Island off the coast of southeastern Brazil. It is similar to C. axillare Endlicher ex Walpers and C. sampaioanum Occhioni, but differs from the former by the fasciculate inflorescence and dark purple flowers, and from the latter by the nonplicate apex of the leaves and a shorter fruit pedicel. It also resembles C. dinisii Schwacke in its vegetative features, but differs from it mainly by the flowers with 10 petals, 10 stamens, and ovary with two placentae. /// Uma nova espcie do gnero Cinnamodendron Endlicher (Canellaceae)  descrita e ilustrada, com o nome C. occhionianum F. Barros & J. Salazar. A nova espcie  conhecida, at o momento, somente da Ilha do Cardoso, no litoral sudeste do Brasil. Ela  prxima de C. axillare Endlicher ex Walpers e C. sampaioanum Occhioni, mas difere da primeira pela inflorescncia em fascculo e flores purpreas, e da segunda pelo pice das folhas no plicado e pedicelo dos frutos mais curto. Lembra C. dinisii Schwacke no seu aspecto vegetativo, mas difere principalmente pelas flores com 10 ptalas, 10 estames e ovrio com duas placentas.
10.2307/3393237|A new species from Iran, Astragalus tuyehensis, belonging to the bifurcate-haired subgenus Cercidothrix, is described and illustrated. Its relationships to A. durandianus and its distinguishing characters, such as inflated calyx and non-swollen fruit, are discussed.
23018452|A rare endemic species on Ulleung Island, Korea, is transferred from Physocarpus (Cambess.) Raf. (Rosaceae) to Spiraea L., based on morphology and DNA sequence data. The new combination S. insularis (Nakai) H. Shin, Y. D. Kim & S. H. Oh is proposed.
10.2307/3391474|Liparis seidenfadeniana from China is described, and its relationships are briefly discussed.
3393297| Two new species, Festuca dinirica Stank and F. guaramacalana Stank (Poaceae, Loliinae), from the Venezuelan Andes are described. Festuca dinirica is found in the pramo zone and seems best placed in subgenus Festuca sect. Aulaxyper; Festuca guaramacalana is found in humid mountain forests and belongs in Festuca subg. Subulatae sect. Subulatae. Both species are endemic to Venezuela, known from small areas of Dinira National Park and Guaramacal National Park, respectively. /// Se presentan dos especies nuevas, Festuca dinirica Stank and F. guaramacalana Stank (Poaceae, Loliinae), endmicas de los Andes de Venezuela. La especie F. dinirica pertenece al subg. Festuca sect. Aulaxyper y se conoce solo de la zona paramna del Parque Nacional Dinira. La especie F. guaramacalana es un representante del subg. Subulatae sect. Subulatae, endmica de la zona del bosque hmedo altoandino del Parque Nacional Guaramacal. 
10.2307/3391682|A new subspecies, Brownea coccinea subsp. capitella, is recognized based on geographical separation and morphological differences. A key to the subspecies is provided.
43288947|A revision of the Andean species of Ocotea Aubl. (Lauraceae) with hermaphrodite flowers and the lower leaf surface completely covered by the pubescence is presented. A key to the 22 recognized species is provided. Fourteen species are described as new: O. cornata van der Werff, O. micrantha van der Werff, and O. stenophylla van der Werff from Bolivia; O. gentryi van der Werff, O. pedicellata van der Werff, and O. umbrina van der Werff from Colombia; O. foxensis van der Werff, O. palaciosii van der Werff, O. pautensis van der Werff from Ecuador; O. andina van der Werff, O. glabriflora van der Werff, O. pajonalis van der Werff, and O. trematifera van der Werff from Peru; and finally, the single species O. guaramacalensis van der Werff from Venezuela. Lectotypification is provided for the name O. jehkii Mez.
20406086|Recent studies have shown that the genus Acacia Miller s.l. is polyphyletic, consisting of at least five distinct groups of species. One of these groups, the proposed genus Mariosousa Seigler & Ebinger, consists of 13 species. We have made the following new combinations: Mariosousa acatlensis (Bentham) Seigler & Ebinger, M. centralis (Britton & Rose) Seigler & Ebinger, M. compacta (Rose) Seigler & Ebinger, M. coulteri (Bentham in A. Gray) Seigler & Ebinger, M. dolichostachya (S. F. Blake) Seigler & Ebinger, M. durangensis (Britton & Rose) Seigler & Ebinger, M. mammifera (Schlechtendal) Seigler & Ebinger, M. millefolia (S. Watson) Seigler & Ebinger, M. russelliana (Britton & Rose) Seigler & Ebinger, M. salazarii (Britton & Rose) Seigler & Ebinger, M. sericea (Martens & Galeotii) Seigler & Ebinger, M. usumacintensis (Lundell) Seigler & Ebinger, and M. willardiana (Rose in Vasey & Rose) Seigler & Ebinger. These species are restricted to tropical and subtropical regions of the southwestern United States, Mexico, and Central America. In addition to their close geographic affinities, a series of morphological characteristics, as well as recent molecular data, separate this new genus, which has been commonly referred to as the Acacia coulteri group. They are morphologically distinct from other species of Acacia subg. Aculeiferum Vassal in that they always lack prickles and are never lianas. Although this group of species is monophyletic, previous taxonomic treatments have not dealt with them as a separate unit within Acacia subg. Aculeiferum.
3393359|A new combination in Sterculiaceae, Hermannieae, Waltheria berteroi (Sprengel) J. G. Saunders, is created and lectotypified. Waltheria subcordata Standley from Colombia and Venezuela is newly synonymized to W. berteroi on the basis of shared bract, leaf, and inflorescence characters. Additional isotypes of W. subcordata are newly cited for Smith 493, and further clarification of nontype Smith 493 specimens is given. Waltheria berteroi has been confused with W. lophanthus J. R. & G. Forster from the South Pacific Ocean but differs in its leaf vestiture, leaf apices, stipules, bracts, thrum stamen tube, and stigma, as well as characters of the fruit and seed. Apparent morphological intermediates of W. berteroi with W. glomerata Presl or W. involucrata Bentham are noted to occur outside the Colombian Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta, western Eastern Cordillera, and Sahagun vicinities.
10.2307/3391493|Cladocolea racemosa and C. elliptica are illustrated and described as new. The former, Mexican species is unique in the genus in having progressive indeterminate inflorescences, and highly unusual in having pedicellate flowers. The latter, Suriname species also has an indeterminate inflorescence, but is closely related to C. micrantha.
10.2307/3393045|Myrocarpus emarginatus, known only from Bolivia, is described and illustrated. Its diagnostic characters are the emarginate leaflet apex, pellucid dots and streaks immersed on the leaflet blades, and the areolate reticulation of the seed chamber. The new species is morphologically similar to Myrocarpus fastigiatus Allemo, especially in the shape of its leaflets, ranging from elliptic to oblong; neither species exhibits leaflets with an acuminate apex.
10.2307/3391823|Continuing study on neotropical Grammitidaceae for various floras in press or in progress necessitates the following new combinations: Ceradenia oidiophora, C. phalacron, Lellingeria ciliolepis, L. dissimulans, L. hombersleyi, Melpomene gracilis, M. zempoaltepetlensis, Terpsichore bipinnata, T. elastica, and T. flexuosa.
10.2307/3391871|Zamia lacandona, a member of the Z. splendens species group, is described from the Selva Lacandona of eastern Chiapas, Mexico. It is distinguished from Zamia splendens Schutzman by its usually single arcuate leaf with falcate leaflets, erect short-peduncled megasporangiate strobili, decumbent microstrobili, and chromosome number of 2n = 16, 17, or 18.
10.2307/3393165|Two new species of Agalinis Rafinesque, A. itambensis V. C. Souza & S. I. Elias and A. nana S. I. Elias & V. C. Souza, are described and illustrated. The new combination A. schwackeana (Diels) V. C. Souza & A. M. Giulietti is also made.
20406074|Two new species and one subspecies of Mesoamerican Dichaea Lindley with caducous leaves are described and illustrated. Dichaea dressleri Folsom, a new species with narrow, glaucous leaves and resembling D. gracillima C. Schweinfurth, is described from wet forests in western Panama. Dichaea globosa Dressler & Pupulin, a new species described from Costa Rica and Panama, is a close ally of D. fragrantissima Folsom and of the widespread D. morrisii Fawcett & Rendle and may be distinguished by the fleshy, subtruncate lip with a broad claw and obovate petals. Dichaea fragrantissima, already described from Panama with a short diagnosis, is more fully described here. It is distinguished by the short, obtuse, lateral lobes of the lip, the subquadrate ligule and the narrow, subacuminate sepals and petals. Within D. fragrantissima, subsp. fragrantissima has prominent lilac lines on the sepals and petals and the lip is lilac, while subsp. eburnea Dressler & Pupulin, of Nicaragua, Costa Rica, and Panama, is distinguished by ivory flowers with greenish ivory apices and smaller lateral lobes of the lip. Some members of subsp. eburnea are autogamous. Dichaea morrisii, although ranging widely in South America, is uncommon in Mesoamerica. /// Se describen y se ilustran dos nuevas especies y una nueva subespecie de Dichaea Lindley de hojas cducas de Mesoamrica. Dichaea dressleri Folsom, una especie con hojas estrechas y glaucas, parecida a D. gracillima C. Schweinfurth, se describe de bosques hmedos de Panam occidental. Dichaea globosa Dressler & Pupulin, conocida de Costa Rica y Panam, es pariente cercano de D. fragrantissima y de D. morrisii Fawcett & Rendle, de distribucin amplia, y se puede distinguir por el labelo carnoso, subtruncado, con la ua ancha, y los ptalos obovados. Dichaea fragrantissima, ya descrita de Panam, se distingue por los lbulos laterales del labelo cortos, la lgula subcuadrada y los spalos y ptalos estrechos y subacuminados. Se provee una descripcin ms amplia que la de la publicacin original. Dentro de D. fragrantissima, la subsp. fragrantissima tiene rayas lilas en los sepalos y ptalos y el labelo lila, y los lbulos laterales del labelo ms largos, mientras la subsp. eburnea Dressler & Pupulin se distingue por las flores color marfil con los pices marfil verdosos y los lbulos laterales del labelo cortos y obtusos. Algunas de las plantas de subsp. eburnea son autgamas. Dichaea morrisii tiene una distribucin amplia en Sudamrica, pero es poco comn en Mesoamrica.
40856278|The new combination Stillingia tenella (Pax & K. Hoffm.) Esser is proposed, which is based on an overlooked name originally described in Sapium Jacq. and replaces Stillingia yungasensis Belgrano & Pozner as a new synonym.
10.2307/3391484|Reexamination of the species and hybrids of the simple-lipped group of the genus Platanthera sect. Blephariglottis shows that several colonies found on eastern Long Island constitute a new species. Platanthera pallida is described based upon its recurved lip, reflexed lateral sepals, pale cream coloration, and unusual habitat-dry, interdunal hollows. It was previously referred to as P. cristata because of its superficial resemblance to that species and lack of other similar fringed orchises in the northeastern United States.
10.2307/3393024|In preparing the account of Allium L. for the Flora of China, Volume 24, two new combinations are made in order to recognize entities at varietal rank within the complex of A. atrosanguineum Schrenk: A. atrosanguineum var. fedschenkoanum (Regel) G. Zhu & Turland and A. atrosanguineum var. tibeticum (Regel) G. Zhu & Turland. Lectotypes are herein designated for both names. The priority of A. atrosanguineum over A. monadelphum Turczaninow ex Karelin & Kirilov (published in the same year) is explained.
20406057|A new species of Begonia (Begoniaceae) from Vietnam, Begonia brevipedunculata Y. M. Shui, is described and illustrated. It belongs to section Platycentrum (J. F. Klotzsch) A. DC., which is distinguished by having two persistent styles and two locules in every ovary. Its chief diagnostic characters are the dense clavate glandular pubescence on the abaxial leaf surface and the scape much shorter than the petiole. The characters distinguishing the new species from Begonia howii Merrill & Chun and B. psilophylla Irmscher are noted. In addition, a key to six similar species at the border of China and Vietnam is presented.
10.2307/3392166|During the writing of the treatment of Basellaceae for Flora Mesoamericana it became apparent that typification of the Linnaean names Basella alba L. and B. lucida L. required clarification. A note to formally fix the application of these two names is provided here.
3393413| A new species of Bromeliaceae, Aechmea sucreana, found in Esprito Santo State, Brazil, is described and illustrated. It is distinguished from its closest relative, A. blanchetiana, on the basis of inflorescence features. 
40856277|A new species, Strobilanthes ovata Y. F. Deng & J. R. I. Wood (Acanthaceae), is described and illustrated. The new species is another endemic species from Gaoligong Shan in southwest Yunnan similar to S. decipiens J. R. I. Wood, but differs in its glabrous leaves, winged rachis, the distant, spicate flowers, and the ovate, oblong-ovate, or rounded bracts.
23018484|Anoectochilus tetrapterus Hook. f. (Orchidaceae) is transferred to Odontochilus Blume as O. tetrapterus (Hook. f.) Av. Bhattacharjee & H. J. Chowdhery based on its morphological characteristics. An emended description and illustration are provided to facilitate identification of the species.
10.2307/3391995|An infrageneric classification for the genus Poa L. in North America, new taxa, combinations, names, hybrid status, and lectotypes are proposed for forthcoming treatments of the genus in the Americas. New names, combinations, and taxa are: Dissanthelium atropidiforme (Hackel) Soreng, D. atropidiforme var. patagonicum (Parodi) Soreng, D. calycinum subsp. mathewsii (Ball) Soreng, Poa sect. Alpinae (Hegetschweiler ex Nyman) Soreng, P sect. Dasypoa (Pilger) Soreng, P sect. Sylvestres V. L. Marsh ex Soreng, P. arnowiae Soreng, P. chambersii Soreng, P. tovari Soreng, P. unilateralis subsp. pachypholis (Piper) D. D. Keck ex Soreng, P. Xgaspensis Fernald, and Puccinellia atacamensis (Parodi) Soreng. Lectotypes are proposed for the following taxa: Dissanthelium sclerochloides Steudel ex E. Fournier, Poa [unranked] Arenariae Hegetschweiler, Poa [unranked] Caespitosae Fries ex Lange, Poa [unranked] Fasciculiferae Fries ex Lange, Poa [unranked] Glareosae Hegetschweiler, Poa [unranked] Hydrophilae Hegetschweiler, Poa [unranked] Macranthela K. Koch, Poa [unranked] Micranthela K. Koch, Poa [unranked] Stoloniferae Fries ex Lange, Poa [unranked] Subbulbosae Fries ex Andersson, Poa sect. Incanae V. Jirsek, Poa sect. Nervosae Rouy, Poa sect. Obsoletae Rouy, Poa sect. Spizopoa Dumortier.
20406255|Se describe, ilustra y compara con sus parientes ms cercanos una nueva especie de Calceolaria L. (Calceolariaceae) del centro del Per: Calceolaria oxapampensis Puppo de la seccin Lehmannina Pennell. La nueva especie habita en bosque primario entre los 2400-2800 m en el departamento de Pasco. /// A new species of Calceolaria L. (Calceolariaceae) from central Peru is described, illustrated, and compared with its closest relatives: Calceolaria oxapampensis Puppo of section Lehmannina Pennell. The new species occurs in primary forest between 2400 and 2800 m in Pasco department.
3393429| Two undescribed species of Meliosma Blume have been found during revision of the Bolivian material of the genus for the checklist of the Bolivian vascular plants: Meliosma minutipetala Arbelez, having the smallest inner petals of any Meliosma species reported from the Neotropics, and M. petalodentata Arbelez, having both the outer and inner petals dentate. A key to the eight species known from Bolivia is provided. /// Dos especies an no descritas del gnero Meliosma Blume fueron encontradas durante la revisin del material boliviano de este gnero para el "checklist" de las plantas vasculares de Bolivia: Meliosma minutipetala Arbelez, la cual tiene los ptalos internos ms pequeos de todos aquellos reportados previamente para cualquier especie de Meliosma en los Neotrpicos, y M. petalodentata Arbelez, la cual tiene tanto los ptalos externos como los internos dentados. Se presenta una clave para las ocho especies de Meliosma que se conocen de Bolivia. 
3393296| Dicranopygium callithrix, a new species of Cyclanthaceae, is described from the northern end of the Cauca Valley in western Colombia. It belongs to subgenus Dicranopygium, section Dicranopygium. Its very long white staminodes, combined with other floral and foliar characters, distinguish it from all other described species of this genus. Dicranopygium callithrix is the only species of Dicranopygium known from the Cauca Valley and may be endemic there. It is in danger of extinction. /// Dicranopygium callithrix, una nueva especie de Cyclanthaceae, se describe, procedente del extremo septentrional del valle geogrfico del ro Cauca, en la parte occidental de Colombia. La nueva especie pertenece al subgnero Dicranopygium, seccin Dicranopygium. Sus estaminodios blancos y muy largos, combinados con otros caracteres florales y foliares, la distinguen de todas las otras especies descritas de este gnero. Dicranopygium callithrix es la nica especie de Dicranopygium que se conoce del valle geogrfico del ro Cauca, y es posible que sea endmica all. Est en peligro de extincin. 
10.2307/3393004|Chorispora tashkorganica, a narrow endemic to western Xinjiang, China, is described and illustrated. Its relationships and distinguishing characters are discussed.
23018462|A new species was detected while conducting a monographic study of Cohniella Pfitzer (Orchidaceae, Cymbideae, Oncidiinae). Cohniella croizatii Cetzal & Carnevali is newly described from material collected in the vicinity of Puerto Ayacucho and from the upper Orinoco, Amazonas State, Venezuela. The new species is illustrated and its affinities are discussed. The novelty is similar to C. cebolleta (Jacq.) Christenson from northern Venezuela and Colombia, but differs in the callus that consists of three large, apical teeth of more or less similar size that emerge directly from the labellum disk, with the two lateral teeth marginally serrate to dentate on the proximal half. In contrast, the callus in C. cebolleta is more complex, consisting of five teeth that emerge from a conspicuous central platform, and the central tooth is proportionately larger. Una especie nueva fue encontrada durante nuestro trabajo monogrfico en el gnero Cohniella Pfitzer (Orchidaceae, Cymbideae, Oncidiinae). Cohniella croizatii Cetzal & Carnevali se propone como nueva de Puerto Ayacucho y del Alto Orinoco del Estado Amazonas, Venezuela. Esta especie nueva es ilustrada y sus afinidades son discutidas. La novedad est relacionada con C. cebolleta (Jacq.) Christenson del norte de Venezuela y Colombia, pero difiere por el callo que consiste de tres dientes apicales ms o menos del mismo tamao que emergen directamente del disco del labelo, los dos dientes laterales son marginalmente serrados a dentados en la mitad proximal. Por el contrario, mientras que el callo en C. cebolleta es ms complejo, consistiendo de cinco quillas que emergen de una plataforma central conspicua, y el diente central es proporcionalmente muy grande.
10.2307/3391393|The new combination Chonemorpha verrucosa is made, and a key to the four species of Chonemorpha in Thailand is given.
10.2307/3392975|The new genus Baimashania and the new species B. pulvinata and B. wangii are described. The relationships and characters distinguishing Baimashania from Solmslaubachia, Leiospora, and Pycnoplinthus are discussed.
40300874|Three new species of Brachystelma Sims (Apocynaceae, Asclepiadoideae, Ceropegieae) are described and illustrated. These are B. pruinosum Bruyns from the mountains of southern Angola and the Kaokoveld of northern Namibia, B. tenuissimum Bruyns from central Tanzania and northern Zambia, and B. theronii Bruyns from the western parts of the Great Karoo of South Africa.
10.2307/3391723|A new species, Solanum diamantinense, is described and illustrated. It is endemic to Brazil and restricted to the Chapada Diamantina in the State of Bahia, northeastern Brazil. This species is closely related to the Brazilian Solanum baturitense Huber, from which it differs by its oblanceolate leaf blades, short calyx lobes, and dense, stalked, glandular-stellate pubescence. /// Uma nova espcie, Solanum diamantinense,  descrita e ilustrada e sua distribuco e sua afinidade so discutidas. Espcie endmica do Brasil, restrita  Chapada da Diamantina, estado da Bahia, nordeste do Brasil. Solanum diamantinense possui afinidade com S. baturitense Huber, da qual pode se distinguir pela lmina foliar oblanceolada, clice com lobos curtos e a densa pubescncia com tricomas estrelados e glandular-estrelados pedicelados.
3393439|Dacryophyllum falcifolium, a new North American genus and species of moss, is described and illustrated. The taxon is described from sterile California collections, where it occurs on calcareous rock in redwood forests in Monterey and Santa Cruz Counties. The new moss genus Dacryophyllum is considered a member of the large pleurocarpous family Hypnaceae and is morphologically close to Taxiphyllum.
3393356| Tigridia suarezii (Iridaceae, Tigridieae) is a new species from Mexico. Its distinguishing features are the dark purple, almost black color of the spreading tepal limbs and the white to cream floral cup with dark purple spots and stripes. It is morphologically similar to T. alpestris subsp. obtusa and T. venusta, from which it differs in the more robust habit of the plant, the shape, length, and width of the tepals, and the length of the anther, filament column, and style branches. Tigridia suarezii and T. venusta inhabit the understory in pine-oak forests in an altitudinal range from 2080 to 2800 m, whereas T. alpestris subsp. obtusa grows on exposed rocky slopes above 3000 m. Tigridia suarezii is known only from the state of Jalisco. /// Tigridia suarezii (Iridaceae, Tigridieae) es una especie nueva para Mxico. Se caracteriza por el color prpura, casi negro de la parte distal de los tpalos y el color blanco o crema con manchas o rayas prpuras de la copa floral. Su morfologa es similar a T. alpestris subsp. obtusa y T. venusta de las que se distingue por su hbito ms robusto y en la forma, longitud y ancho de los tpalos. Tambin son diferentes en la longitud de las anteras, la columna estaminal y las ramas del estilo. Tigridia suarezii y T. venusta crecen en el sotobosque del bosque de pino y encino en un rango altitudinal de 2080 a 2800 m. En contraste, T. alpestris subsp. obtusa crece en acantilados rocosos por encima de los 3000 m de altitud. Tigridia suarezii se conoce nicamente del estado de Jalisco. 
10.2307/3392008|A new species, Cardiospermum cuchujaquense from Sonora, Mexico, is described and illustrated. The new species belongs to C. sect. Carphospermum, which is characterized by the presence of chaffy or scaly trichomes. With the discovery of C. cuchujaquense, a pattern of disjunct distribution is documented for C. sect. Carphospermum. /// En el prsente artculo se describe y se ilustra una nueva especie de Cardiospermum (C. cuchujaquense), la cual pertenece a C. seccin Carphospermum. Mediante el descubrimiento de esta nueva especie se documenta un patrn de disyuncin en la distribucin de la seccin Carphospermum.
10.2307/3391799|Four new combinations in Chaetostoma (C. albiflorum, C. cupressinum, C. selagineum, C. stenocladon,) are proposed, and a new species, Chaetostoma flavum, endemic to the Chapada dos Veadeiros, Gois, Brazil, is described. The new species can be distinguished by its 4-5-locular ovary and antisepalous stamens with prolonged appendages.
20406329|As part of a revision of the genus, Agropyron deweyi . Lve (Poaceae, Triticeae) is neotypified, because its holotype grown from seed material from Turkey was lost. The neotype is selected from one of two specimens bearing the same wildorigin seed details as the original type, which differ in the date of their collection.
10.2307/3392047|Se describe y se ilustra Tintinnabularia gratissima de Mxico. En adicin, se incluye una breve sinopsis del gnero. /// Tintinnabularia gratissima from Mexico is described and illustrated. In addition, a brief synopsis of the genus is given.
40300911|A new species of Clematis L. (Ranunculaceae), C. liuzhouensis Y. G. Wei & C. R. Lin, is described and illustrated. The new species is related to C. wissmanniana Handel-Mazzetti, but differs in its leaflets that always have entire margins and are abaxially silvery-pannose and in its smaller sepals that are up to 1.5 X 0.6 cm.
20406340|Hampeella concavifolia Hattaway & D. H. Norris (Ptychomniaceae) is described and illustrated from Queensland, Australia. It differs from H. pallens (Sande Lacoste) M. Fleischer in its teretely foliate, attenuate secondary stems; the closely imbricate, strongly concave, symmetrical leaves that have bright orange to red-brown basal cells with incrassate-porose walls; longer capsules (to 2.4 mm); and longer setae (to 14 mm). Hampeella concavifolia is distinguished from H. alaris (Dixon & Sainsbury) Sainsbury by its less differentiated alar cells, usually longer secondary stems (to 3 cm), and differences in peristome ornamentation. This new species is designated as Data Deficient (DD) according to IUCN Red List criteria.
23259426|A new combination, Senna tocotana (Rose ex Britton & Killip) Silverst., is proposed for Chamaefistula tocotana Rose ex Britton & Killip, the latter name previously placed in synonymy of S. viminea (L.) H. S. Irwin & Barneby. The Colombian species S. tocotana is not conspecific with the Jamaican species S. viminea. They differ notably in the size and shape of the fruits and in the arrangement of seeds; the fruits of S. viminea are shorter and broader than in S. tocotana, and the seeds are biseriate (in two rows) versus uniseriate in S. tocotana. Una nueva combinacin, Senna tocotana (Rose ex Britton & Killip) Silverst., se propone para Chamaefistula tocotana Rose ex Britton & Killip, la cual estaba colocada en la sinonimia de S. viminea (L.) H. S. Irwin & Barneby. La especie colombiana S. tocotana no pertenece a la misma especie como la especie jamaicana S. viminea. Ellas difieren notablemente en el tamao y la forma de los frutos y en la ordenacin de las semillas; los frutos de S. viminea son ms cortos y ms anchos que en S. tocotana, y las semillas son biseriadas (en dos filas), versus uniseriadas en S. tocotana.
10.2307/3392241|Se describe Rhamnus wendtii del Cerro Salomn, Sierra Atravesada, Oaxaca, Mxico, como especie nueva que parece estar emparentada a R. mcvaughii. Se conoce solamente de la localidad tipo, de selvas bajas perennifolias y bosques cercanos. /// Rhamnus wendtii is described as a new species from Cerro Salomn, Sierra Atravesada, Oaxaca, Mexico, with apparent affinities to R. mcvaughii. It is known only from the type locality, in elfin forest and surrounding vegetation.
10.2307/3393220|The new species Chomelia rubra Lorence & C. M. Taylor, described and illustrated here, is known only from central Panama. This new species has red to pink flowers that are sessile and solitary or few in subsessile short cymules. This new species has previously been confused with C. recordii Standley. /// La especie nueva Chomelia rubra Lorence & C. M. Taylor, aqu descrita e ilustrada, est registrada solamente de Panam central. Esta especie nueva tiene flores rojas a rosadas, y ssiles y solitarias o pocas en cmulas corta subssiles. Anteriormente esta especie nueva ha sido confundida con Ch. recordii Standley.
10.2307/3392130|A new species of the genus Miconia sect. Cremanium from highland "campo rupestre" vegetation of the Serra da Canastra National Park, S&$00E3;o Roque de Minas, is described and illustrated. It is distinguished from other species in this section by the 4-celled ovary with glabrous apex and leaves lanate below.
10.2307/3391795|The name Cephalotaxus latifolia (W. C. Cheng & L. K. Fu) L. K. Fu is an invalid combination because it was based on C. sinensis (Rehder & E. H. Wilson) H. L. Li var. latifolia W. C. Cheng & L. K. Fu, which is itself invalid because two specimens (male and female) were indicated as types in the protologue. The name is here validated at the rank of species, with the female specimen as the holotype.
10.2307/3391550|Recent anatomical and morphological studies of the Acianthinae indicate that the four species of Acianthus from Papuasia are better placed within Stigmatodactylus. This transfer requires three new combinations.
10.2307/3392071|Chamaedorea ponderosa from Panama and C. christinae from Colombia are named and described as new, and compared with related taxa.
10.2307/3391389|Rahowardiana globifera, newly described from Antioquia, Colombia, is a second species for this striking, high-climbing solanaceous genus.
3393459| Five new sections of Baccharis (Asteraceae, Astereae) are described: B. sect. Agglomeratae, including 2 species: B. condensata Rusby and B. platypoda DC.; B. sect. Canescentes, 8 species: B. gibertii Baker, B. gnaphalioides Sprengel, B. helichrysoides DC., B. leucocephala Dusn, B. leucopappa DC., B. patens Baker, B. phylicifolia DC., and B. psammophila Malme; B. sect. Curitybenses, 1 species: B. curitybensis Heering ex Malme; B. sect. Paleatae, 1 species: B. retamoides Philippi; and B. sect. Tridentatae, 6 species: B. deltoidea Baker, B. illinita DC., B. illinitoides Malagarriga, B. isabelae Soria & Zardini, B. subopposita DC., and B. tridentata Vahl. Four new series of Baccharis are described: B. [sect. Angustifoliae] ser. Uniflorae, 7 species: B. frigida Kunth, B. hutchisonii Cuatrecasas, B. laxiflora Rusby, B. libertadensis (S. B. Jones) H. Robinson, B. sternbergiana Steudel, B. trineura Soria & Zardini, and B. uniflora (Ruiz & Pavn) Persoon; B. [sect. Cylindricae] ser. Axillares, 20 species: B. angusticeps Dusn ex Malme, B. aracatubensis Malagarriga & Hatschbach, B. axillaris DC., B. concinna G. M. Barroso, B. cultrata Baker, B. elliptica Gardner, B. hypericifolia Baker, B. incisa Hooker & Arnott, B. lateralis Baker, B. lymanii G. M. Barroso, B. minutiflora Martius ex Baker, B. parvidentata Malagarriga, B. pauciflosculosa DC., B. perdusenii Giuliano, B. polyphylla Gardner, B. pseudovaccinioides Malagarriga, B. selloi Baker, B. serrula Schultz Bipontinus ex Baker, B. truncata Gardner, and B. xiphophylla Baker; B. [sect. Nitidae] ser. Hirsutae, 1 species: B. muelleri Baker; and B. [sect. Nitidae] ser. Lanuginosae, 4 species: B. calvescens DC., B. elaeagnoides Steudel ex Baker, B. myricifolia DC., and B. semiserrata DC. Three new combinations at the series level are proposed: Baccharis ser. Angustifoliae (Baker) Giuliano; B. ser. Cylindricae (Heering) Giuliano; and B. ser. Nitidae (Cuatrecasas) Giuliano. A new name, Baccharis perdusenii, is proposed to replace the illegitimate name B. dusenii G. M. Barroso. A respective lectotype is designated for B. platypoda, B. retamoides, and B. tridentata; a neotype is designated for B. uniflora. /// Se describen cinco nuevas secciones de Baccharis (Asteraceae, Astereae): B. sect. Agglomeratae, incluyendo 2 especies: B. condensata Rusby y B. platypoda DC.; B. sect. Canescentes, 8 especies: B. gibertii Baker, B. gnaphalioides Sprengel, B. helichrysoides DC., B. leucocephala Dusn, B. leucopappa DC., B. patens Baker, B. phylicifolia DC. y B. psammophila Malme; B. sect. Curitybenses, 1 especie: B. curitybensis Heering ex Malme; B. sect. Paleatae, 1 especie: B. retamoides Philippi; y B. sect. Tridentatae, 6 especies: B. deltoidea Baker, B. illinita DC., B. illinitoides Malagarriga, B. isabelae Soria & Zardini, B. subopposita DC. y B. tridentata Vahl. Se describen cuatro nuevas series de Baccharis: B. [sect. Angustifoliae] ser. Uniflorae, 7 especies: B. frigida Kunth, B. hutchisonii Cuatrecasas, B. laxiflora Rusby, B. libertadensis (S. B. Jones) H. Robinson, B. sternbergiana Steudel, B. trineura Soria & Zardini y B. uniflora (Ruiz & Pavn) Persoon; B. [sect. Cylindricae] ser. Axillares, 20 especies: B. angusticeps Dusn ex Malme, B. aracatubensis Malagarriga & Hatschbach, B. axillaris DC., B. concinna G. M. Barroso, B. cultrata Baker, B. elliptica Gardner, B. hypericifolia Baker, B. incisa Hooker & Arnott, B. lateralis Baker, B. lymanii G. M. Barroso, B. minutiflora Martius ex Baker, B. parvidentata Malagarriga, B. pauciflosculosa DC., B. perdusenii Giuliano, B. polyphylla Gardner, B. pseudovaccinioides Malagarriga, B. selloi Baker, B. serrula Schultz Bipontinus ex Baker, B. truncata Gardner y B. xiphophylla Baker; B. [sect. Nitidae] ser. Hirsutae, 1 especie: B. muelleri Baker; y B. [sect. Nitidae] ser. Lanuginosae, 4 especies: B. calvescens DC., B. elaeagnoides Steudel ex Baker, B. myricifolia DC. y B. semiserrata DC. Se proponen tres nuevas combinaciones a nivel de series: Baccharis ser. Angustifoliae (Baker) Giuliano, B. ser. Cylindricae (Heering) Giuliano y B. ser. Nitidae (Cuatrecasas) Giuliano. Se propone un nombre nuevo, Baccharis perdusenii, para reemplazar el nombre ilegtimo B. dusenii G. M. Barroso. Se designa un respectivo lectotipo para B. platypoda, B. retamoides y B. tridentata; se designa un neotipo para B. uniflora. 
10.2307/3391448|Douglasia beringensis, a new species from the Seward Peninsula in the Bering Strait region of Alaska, is described, illustrated, and compared to its closest arctic allies. A key is provided for the nine species of Douglasia recognized in North America, and a discussion of the Russian and American taxonomic concepts of the genus is given.
10.2307/3392996|A new genus and species, Stenosepala hirsuta, of the Alibertia group (Gardenieae, Rubiaceae), from northern Colombia and southern Panama, is described and illustrated. The new taxon is distinguished from closely related genera by its needle-like calyx lobes, persistent triangular and aristate stipules, large thyrses in male individuals, and its very hirsute ovary in female flowers.
3393337|Ditassa obscura (E. Fournier) Farinaccio & T. U. P. Konno (Apocynaceae: Asclepiadoideae, Asclepiadeae), a new combination from Minas Gerais State, Brazil, is proposed, and its relationships are discussed.
3393302|New combinations are made for the following species and varieties within the flora of Florida: Andropogon elliottii var. stenophyllus, Arnoglossum ovatum var. lanceolatum, Dalea albida, Dalea gracilis, Eupatorium album var. petaloideum, Harrisia eriophora var. fragrans, Harrisia gracilis var. aboriginum, Harrisia gracilis var. simpsonii, Houstonia procumbens var. hirsuta, Imperata cylindrica var. mexicana, Liatris pauciflora var. secunda, Pisonia discolor var. floridana, Pityopsis nervosa var. tracyi, Tephrosia virginiana var. mohrii, Yucca flaccida var. smalliana.
27765234|Heterostemma pingtaoi S. Y. He & J. Y. Lin (Apocynaceae, Asclepiadoideae) is described from Hainan Province, China. The new species is morphologically similar to H. oblongifolium Costantin in its leaf blade with an acute apex and rounded base. In comparison, H. pingtaoi differs from H. oblongifolium in its pubescent petioles (vs. glabrous), the leaves only to 7.3 cm long (vs. 7.5 14 cm), the five calyx glands (vs. 10), and the corolla externally pubescent and yellow-green with mauve pubescence (vs. green and glabrous).
10.2307/3391675|Recent expeditions in the Venezuelan Guayana have resulted in additional new taxa in the genus Ruellia (Acanthaceae). The following places these novelties on record for the convenience of other taxonomists prior to the publication of the Flora of the Venezuelan Guayana. Five new Venezuelan species of Ruellia, R. wurdackii, R. steyermarkii, R. delascioi, R. liesneri, and R. bolivarensis, are described, illustrated, and compared with their closest relatives.
20406069|Se describe como especie nueva e ilustra a Thompsonella garcia-mendozae P. Carrillo & Prez-Calix, a partir de ejemplares originarios de la parte media y baja de la Cuenca del Ro Balsas, en el sur del estado de Michoacn, Mxico. La nueva especie es la nica del gnero que lleva las hojas con pices aristados en su juventud y mrgenes hialinos, as como los spalos recurvados en el pice. Por otra parte, esta planta se asemeja a T. platyphylla Rose y a T. colliculosa Moran, de las que se diferencia en que sus cincinos inferiores miden hasta 6.5 cm y presentan 4 a 18 flores en pedicelos de 3 mm de largo, mientras que en T. platyphylla y en T. colliculosa los cincinos miden a lo ms 3 y 5 cm de largo respectivamente y llevan hasta 12 flores sobre pedicelos de 1 mm de largo. Por ltimo, se presenta una clave para la identificacin de las especies conocidas de Thompsonella. /// A new species, Thompsonella garcia-mendozae P. Carrillo & Prez-Calix, is described and illustrated. This taxon occurs in the Balsas River Basin of southern Michoacn, Mexico. The new species is unique in the genus Thompsonella by possessing young leaves with an aristate apex and hyaline margin, as well as sepals with a recurved apex. It is similar to T. platyphylla Rose and T. colliculosa Moran, from which it is distinguished by the possession of the lower cincinni up to 6.5 cm long and with 4 to 18 flowers. Furthermore, the flowers have pedicels up to 3 mm long. In T. platyphylla and T. colliculosa the cincinni are up to 3 and 5 cm long, respectively, and up to 12 flowers are borne, on pedicels 1 mm long or shorter. A key to the identification of species of Thompsonella is provided.
23259352|The genus Schizocalyx Wedd. was originally monotypic, but has been recently expanded based on molecular analysis to comprise six species, including four transferred from Bathysa C. Presl, where they were incorrectly classified, and two transferred from Phitopis Hook. f., which is now a synonym. Schizocalyx is now characterized by its calyptrate stipules, corollas with the lobes convolute in bud, capsules that are loculicidal across the apical part, and numerous flattened to angled seeds, as detailed in a revised genus description. This genus is now known from southern Central America through western South America and into central and southeastern Brazil. The nine species keyed here include the seven species previously described, for which nomenclature and range are summarized, and two species newly described here: S. condoricus D. A. Neill & C. M. Taylor, found in the eastern Andean foothills of southern Ecuador and previously confused with S. peruvianus (K. Krause) Kainul. & B. Bremer; and Schizocalyx truncatus C. M. Taylor, found in the eastern Andean foothills of central Peru and previously confused with S. obovatus (K. Schum. ex Standl.) Kainul. & B. Bremer. Lectotypes are selected for S. cuspidatus (A. St.-Hil.) Kainul. & B. Bremer and S. multiflorus (Hook. f.) Kainul. & B. Bremer. El gnero Schizocalyx Wedd. originalmente fue monotpico, pero ha sido ampliado recientemente para incluir seis especies, incluyendo cuatro especies transferidas de Bathysa C. Presl, en lo cual estaban clasificadas errneamente, y dos especies transferidas de Phitopis Hook. f., lo cual es actualmente un sinnimo. Schizocalyx actualmente se caracteriza por las estpulas caliptradas, corolas con los lbulos convolutos en la yema, cpsulas loculicidales en la parte apical y semillas numerosas, aplanadas o anguladas, como se detalle en una descripcin genrica actualizada. El gnero actualmente est registrada desde el sur de Amrica Central a travs de Sudamrica occidental hasta Brasil central y suroriental. Las nueve especies indicadas en este sinopsis con claves incluyen las siete especies descritas anteriormente para las cuales se indica su nomenclatura y su rango de distribucin, y dos especies nuevas descritas en este artculo: S. condoricus D. A. Neill & C. M. Taylor se encuentra en las cordilleras al este de los Andes en el sur del Ecuador, y previamente ha sido confundida con S. peruvianus (K. Krause) Kainul. & B. Bremer; y S. truncatus C. M. Taylor se encuentra en las cordilleras al este de los Andes en el centro de Per y ha sido confundida con S. obovatus (K. Schum. ex Standl.) Kainul. & B. Bremer. Lectotipos son seleccionados para S. cuspidatus (A. St.-Hil.) Kainul. & B. Bremer and S. multiflorus (Hook. f.) Kainul. & B. Bremer.
10.2307/3391727|Rudgea tayloriae (Rubiaceae), a new species from the eastern slopes of the Venezuelan Andes, is described and illustrated, and its relationships are discussed.
3393283|As part of a revision of Silphium (Asteraceae: Heliantheae) for the Flora of North America (FNA), four new combinations are proposed: S. asteriscus var. simpsonii (Greene) J. A. Clevinger, S. asteriscus var. trifoliatum (L.) J. A. Clevinger, S. asteriscus var. latifolium (A. Gray) J. A. Clevinger, and S. radula var. gracile (A. Gray) J. A. Clevinger. In addition, Silphium confertifolium Small is reduced to synonymy of Silphium asteriscus var. latifolium, and Silphium simpsonii var. wrightii L. M. Perry is reduced to synonymy of Silphium radula Nuttall. Silphium radula var. gracile is lectotypified.
10.2307/3392221|Siparuna campii, S. guajalitensis, and S. pubancura from central Ecuador, S. multiflora and S. conica from northwestern Ecuador and western Colombia, S. verticillata from Amazonian Ecuador, and S. cascada from southeastern Ecuador are described, illustrated, and discussed as to their relationships with morphologically similar species. Macrophotographs of male and female flowers illustrate the unusual details of Siparuna floral structure.
20406257|Ceratozamia decumbens (Zamiaceae, Cycadales) is newly described and illustrated. This species, endemic to Veracruz, has affinity with C. morettii Vzquez Torres & Vovides, but differs in leaf morphology and leaflet habit as well as in the microsporangiate and megasporangiate strobili and trunk. Ceratozamia decumbens is considered part of the C. latifolia species complex, which includes C. latifolia Miquel, C. microstrobila Vovides & J. D. Rees, C. huastecorum Avendao, Vovides & Castillo-Campos, and C. morettii.
10.2307/3393242|Se describe e ilustra Echeandia magnifica sp. nov. (Anthericaceae) con material proveniente del estado de Guerrero, Mxico. La nueva especie, perteneciente al subgnero Echeandia, est relacionada con E. michoacensis (Poellnitz) Cruden y con E. drepanoides (Greenman) Cruden, pero es claramente distinguible de la primera por sus hojas con el margen largamente ciliado, por su inflorescencia ramificada y por sus flores grandes con los tpalos internos ampliamente elpticos. De E. drepanoides se distingue por el mayor tamao de sus anteras y porque stas abren por una hendidura apical. /// A new species, Echeandia magnifica (Anthericaceae), from Guerrero, Mexico, is described and illustrated. The new species, included in the subgenus Echeandia, is related to E. michoacensis (Poellnitz) Cruden and E. drepanoides (Greenman) Cruden but is clearly distinguished from the former by its leaves long ciliate in the margins, its branched inflorescence, and its large flowers with the internal tepals widely elliptic in shape. From E. drepanoides it is distinguished by its larger anthers that dehisce through apical slits.
3393291| The new Peritassa sadleri and Peritassa longifolia are distinguished by their habit, leaf characteristics, color of flowers, shape of petals, number of ovules, size of inflorescences, and size of fruits. The new species Salacia nemorosa is distinguished from other southeastern Brazilian species by inflorescences, disc details, and size and shape of flowers and fruits. The new combination in Peritassa is also proposed: Peritassa glabra (A. C. Smith) Lombardi. /// As novas espcies Peritassa sadleri e Peritassa longifolia so distintas pelos hbitos, morfologia das folhas, cor das flores, forma das ptalas, nmero de vulos e tamanho das inflorescncias e dos frutos. Salacia nemorosa difere das outras congneres do sudeste do Brasil pelas inflorescncias, detalhes do disco e tamanho e forma das flores e dos frutos. Tambm uma nova combinao em Peritassa  proposta: Peritassa glabra (A. C. Smith) Lombardi. 
41811673|Passiflora unipetala P. Jrg., Muchhala & J. M. MacDougal (Passifloraceae) is described from two cloud forest remnants in Pichincha, Ecuador, and is assigned to the Andean endemic Passiflora L. supersect. Tacsonia (Juss.) Feuillet & J. M. MacDougal. This new species with yellowish green flowers is distinguished from all other passionflowers by having only one petal. It is pollinated by bats, which is rare in Passiflora.
40856276|During the taxonomie revision of Taxithelium Spruce ex Mitt. (Pylaisiadelphaceae), species previously treated in the genus are excluded, and eight new combinations are presented here: Camptochaete novae-zeelandiae (E. B. Bartram & Dixon) P. E. A. S. Cmara, Chaetomitrium spuriosubtile (Broth.) P. E. A. S. Cmara, Phyllodon bilobatus (Dixon) P. E. A. S. Cmara, P. choiropyxis (Mll. Hal.) P. E. A. S. Cmara, P. glossoides (Bosch & Sande Lac.) P. E. A. S. Cmara, Sematophyllum borneense (Broth.) P. E. A. S. Cmara, S. mundulum (Sull.) P. E. A. S. Cmara, and Trichosteleum friedense (D. H. Norris & T. J. laevigatum P. E. A. S. Cmara is proposed for Hypnum trachaelocarpum Angstr. Lectotypifications are also provided for Sigmatella choiropyxis Mll. Hal. and Hypnum trachaelocarpum ngstr.
10.2307/3391863|A new species of Xyris has been found in the wet savanna lands of the Rupununi District, Guyana. Xyris dilatatiscapa is described, illustrated, and discussed as to its relationships with other Xyris.
10.2307/3393127|A new species from northern Guangxi, China, Chirita longii Z. Y. Li, is described.
10.2307/3392262|Two new species of the large African genus Moraea (125 species), M. rivulicola and M. regalis, both members of subgenus Vieusseuxia, are described here. Moraea rivulicola has cream to greenish flowers, unusually long capsules, and is a robust plant restricted to the banks and beds of seasonal streams in Namaqualand, in the northwestern part of South Africa. Moraea regalis is known from one locality, near De Rust in the Little Karoo, South Africa. Both species occur in the semiarid winter rainfall part of southern Africa, a region known for the richness and diversity of its flora. The genus Rheome, now believed to be most closely related to species of Moraea subg. Moraea, is reduced to synonymy, and the three species of Rheome are transferred to Moraea as M. maximiliani, M. nana, and M. umbellata.
10.2307/3391811|A new species of Pilocarpus Vahl (Rutaceae) from Peru is described and illustrated as Pilocarpus manuensis Skorupa. The new taxon is known only from the type locality in Parque Nacional Manu, Peru, and resembles Pilocarpus demerarae Sandwith from Guyana.
43288936|TWO new South American species of Tropaeolum L. (Tropaeolaceae), T. slanisii Bulacio from Salta, Argentina, and T. keslingii Bulacio from Tanja, Bolivia, found during a revision of the genus for the Flora of Argentina, are described, illustrated, and compared with related species. Both new species belong to Tropaeolum sect. Tropaeolum, which is characterized by the strongly heteromorphic petals, usually ciliate on the margins, and the entire or more or less deeply incised leaf blades. Se describen, ilustran y comparan dos nuevas especies de Tropaeolum L. (Tropaeolaceae), T. slanisii Bulacio de Salta, Argentina y T. kieslingii Bulacio de Tarija, Bolivia, descubiertas durante la revisin del gnero para la Flora Argentina. Ambas especies pertenecen a Tropaeolum secc. Tropaeolum, la cual se caracteriza por los ptalos marcadamente diferentes, ciliados en el margen y las lminas de las hojas enteras o ms o menos divididas.
3393538| Two new species of Encyclia Hooker (Orchidaceae: Laeliinae) are proposed from Venezuela, E. betancourtiana Carnevali & I. Ramrez and E. garciae-esquivelii Carnevali & I. Ramrez. The first, from Andean Venezuela, is related to E. aspera, but has a subquadrate labellum and grows at higher elevations. The second, from the northern slopes of the Coastal Range, is related to E. diurna but has smaller, differently colored flowers, a more elliptic central lobe, and grows in coastal thorn forests. /// Dos nuevas especies de Encyclia Hooker (Orchidaceae: Laeliinae) de Venezuela se proponen, Encyclia betancourtiana Carnevali & I. Ramrez y E. garciae-esquivelii Carnevali & I. Ramrez. La primera de estas, de la regin andina, est relacionada con E. aspera, pero el lbulo central es subcuadrado y crece a mayores elevaciones. La segunda, de la vertiente norte de la Cordillera de la Costa, est relacionada con E. diurna pero iene flores menores y de colores diferentes, un lbulo central ms elptico y crece en selvas espinosas costaneras. 
3393303|Arisaema menghaiense J. T. Yin, H. Li & Z. F. Xu. (sect. Pistillata Engler) is described and illustrated as a new species of Araceae from South Yunnan, China. It is closely related to Arisaema lobatum Engler in having a globose tuber, trifoliolate leaf blades, a unisexual spadix, and an erect cylindrical appendix. It differs in its epiphytic habit, the inflorescence that appears before the leaf, a green (female) or pale purple (male) spathe with a filiform acumen ca. 60 cm (male) or 25 cm (female) long, a pale green, erect, sessile cylindrical spadix appendix with a few acute neuter flowers basally and anther thecae opening by an apical slit.
23018509|Arundinella kerrii Teerawat. & Sungkaew and Dimeria kerrii Teerawat. & Sungkaew (Poaceae, Panicoideae) are validly published for the first time. Species descriptions and illustrations are provided for both taxa known only from collections from Thailand.
10.2307/3393075|The simple thalloid liverwort genus Petalophyllum J. G. C. Lehmann is removed from the Fossombroniaceae and sequestered in the new family Petalophyllaceae along with Sewardiella S. R. Kashyap, a monotypic genus endemic to the Indian subcontinent. Unlike the Fossombroniaceae, the thallus in the Petalophyllaceae is never dissected, the archegonia are clustered rather than scattered, a pseudoperianth is formed rather than a caulocalyx, and the capsule wall is 3-4-layered with outer wall thickenings, which are lacking in the Fossombroniaceae. The North American representative of Petalophyllum previously considered conspecific with the European taxon P. ralfsii (W. M. Wilson) J. G. C. Lehmann is here described as a distinct species, P. americanum. This is based upon clear differences of the thallus, pseudoperianth, and the elater spirals. Furthermore, the application of the name P. australis Colenso to New Zealand plants is shown to be incorrect; those plants previously referred there represent a new species, P. hodgsonii. This species resembles P. ralfsii, but differs from it in the broad, strongly flattened thallus midrib and structure of the female inflorescence.
10.2307/3393175|The new combination Hydrolea spinosa var. cervantesii (Brand) L. J. Davenport & A. Pool is proposed for the illegitimate name Hydrolea spinosa var. maior (Brand) L. J. Davenport.
3393474| A new genus, Johnstonia (Rhamnaceae, Gouanieae), is proposed for Gouania axilliflora M. C. Johnston, a species from Peru affined to Alvimiantha Grey-Wilson and Reissekia Endlicher, from which it differs by the sessile paired flowers in the axil of leaves; it is also distinct from Alvimiantha by the entire mericarps. The new combination Johnstonia axilliflora (M. C. Johnston) Tortosa is made. /// Se propone un nuevo gnero, Johnstonia (Rhamnaceae, Gouanieae), para Gouania axilliflora M. C. Johnston, una especie de Per afn a Alvimiantha Grey-Wilson and Reissekia Endlicher, de los cuales se diferencia por las flores geminadas ssiles en la axila de las hojas; tambin se distingue de Alvimiantha por los mericarpios enteros. Se establece la nueva combinacin Johnstonia axilliflora (M. C. Johnston) Tortosa. 
10.2307/3392207|A new species, Veronica laxissima, is described. Five new combinations, Pseudolysimachion rotundum (Nakai) Yamazaki subsp. coreanum (Nakai) Hong, P. rotundum subsp. subintegrum (Nakai) Hong, P. linarifolium (Pallas ex Link) Holub subsp. dilatatum (Nakai & Kitagawa) Hong, Veronica himalensis D. Don subsp. yunnanensis (Tsoong) Hong, and Veronicastrum brunonianum (Bentham) Hong subsp. sutchuenense (Franchet) Hong, are proposed. One genus, Sinobacopa, 12 species, and 2 infraspecific taxa are reduced to synonymy.
10.2307/3393166|The neotropical genus Amphidasya includes 13 species in northern South America and adjacent Central America. A key to all the species of this genus is presented; the new combination Amphidasya longicalycina (Dwyer) C. M. Taylor is made, based on Hoffmannia longicalycina Dwyer, for the most commonly collected species in Central America; and the following new species are described and illustrated: A. amethystina J. L. Clark & C. M. Taylor from western Ecuador, A. brevidentata C. M. Taylor from western Colombia, A. elegans C. M. Taylor from southwestern Colombia and central Ecuador, and A. panamensis C. M. Taylor from Panama.
10.2307/3392125|The genus Hylaea, restricted to Venezuelan-Brazilian Amazonia, is described here. Two new combinations, Hylaea arborescens and H. leptoloba, are proposed.
10.2307/3391816|A new autogamous species of Schiedea is described and illustrated. It is known only from cliff habitat in rainforest on a single ridge in the Natural Area Reserve, Hanawi, East Maui. With the addition of this species there are 28 species in this endemic Hawaiian genus. The new species appears to be most closely related to Schiedea nuttallii, a species of mesic habitats on O'ahu, Moloka'i, and Maui.
10.2307/3391583|Guatteria rupestris Mello-Silva & Pirani, a new species of Annonaceae, is described. It is distinct because of a combination of several characters, mainly the shrubby, sclerophyllous habit with small, coriaceous, and prominently veined leaves. The new species occurs in open rocky areas in some "serras" of the Espinhao range, Minas Gerais, Brazil. Besides the description and illustration, comments on its probable taxonomic relationships, habitat, and distribution are presented. A key that distinguishes G. rupestris from the other sympatric species of Guatteria is also provided.
3393550|A new species of the genus Ballota L. (Lamiaceae) is described from the western slopes of Mount Lebanon in an eastern Mediterranean climate. Ballota byblensis Semaan & R. M. Haber is distinguished by the following characters: perennial herb, suffrutescent, brittle; stem densely matted with patent tiny simple to long septate glandular trichomes, with few sessile glands; cauline leaves cordate, crenate, rugose, tomentose with glandular simple-stellate trichomes on both sides; inflorescence lax; verticillaster 6- to 19(22)-flowered; bracteoles many, filiform, glandular, shorter than calyx; calyx 9-10 mm long, infundibular, with glandular simple-stellate trichomes outside, appressed pilose-pubescent in the upper half inside; limb erecto-patent, oblique; teeth 10(11), unequal; corolla 16-18 mm long, pink-purple; seeds black.
10.2307/3392161|The new varietal combination Polygala glaucoides L. var. laotica (Gagnepain) Pendry is published herein. The taxon is known from Cambodia, Laos, Vietnam, and Thailand.
20406134|Four new species of Stachys L. from Mesoamerica, S. darcyana A. Pool, S. harleyana A. Pool, S. riparia A. Pool, and S. uniflora A. Pool, are described and their relationships with allied species are discussed. The new species are similar to each other in having stems rooting only at the lower nodes and corollas of various shades of pink or purple with the corolla tubes of medium size, 3.8-8 mm long. Stachys darcyana (Costa Rica and Panama) and S. harleyana (Chiapas, Mexico) have relatively large upper corolla lips (2.5-- 5 mm long) and the stamens exserted from the corolla tube 2.1-3.5 mm; the verticillasters in S. darcyana are 8- to 12-flowered and in S. harleyana 4- to 8-flowered. Stachys riparia (Costa Rica) and S. uniflora (Costa Rica and Panama) have relatively small upper corolla lips (1.1-2.25 mm long) and the stamens exserted from the corolla tube 0.5-1.25 mm; the verticillasters in S. riparia are 6- to 12-flowered and in S. uniflora the flowers are solitary in the axils of the leaves. /// Se describen cuatro especies nuevas de Stachys L. de Mesoamrica, S. darcyana A. Pool, S. harleyana A. Pool, S. riparia A. Pool y S. uniflora A. Pool, y se discute sus relaciones con especies aliadas. Las especies nuevas son similares entre s por tener tallos que enrazan slo en los nudos inferiores y corolas de varias gamas de rosa o purpreo con los tubos corolinos de tamao mediano, 3.8-8 mm de largo. Stachys darcyana (Costa Rica y Panam) y S. harleyana (Chiapas, Mxico) tienen los labios corolinos superiores relativamente largos, 2.5-5 mm de largo y los estambres exertos 2.1-3.5 mm del tubo corolino; los verticilastros en S. darcyana tienen de 8 a 12 flores y en S. harleyana de 4 a 8 flores. Stachys riparia (Costa Rica) y S. uniflora (Costa Rica y Panam) tienen los labios superiores corolinos relativamente pequeos (1.1-2.25 mm de largo) y los estambres exertos 0.5-- 1.25 mm del tubo corolino; los verticilastros en S. riparia tienen de 6 a 12 flores y en S. uniflora las flores son solitarias en las axilas de las hojas.
40856294|A new species from Brazil, Cordia pilosa M. Stapf & Taroda (Cordiaceae), is described from northeastern Brazil. Illustrations and data on habitat, distribution, and phenology are provided. The new species belongs to Cordia sect. Superbiorae Taroda, and it is distinguished from similar species in section Superbiflorae by its compact inflorescences and the pilose indument on the twigs, leaves, and inflorescence axes. Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie para el noreste de Brasil: Cordia pilosa M. Stapf & Taroda (Cordiaceae). Tambin se presentan datos sobre su habitat, distribucin y fenologa. Esta nueva especie pertenece a Cordia sect. Superbiflorae Taroda, y se distingue de las especies similares de la seccin Superbiflorae por sus inflorescencias compactas y sus ramas jvenes, hojas y ejes de las inflorescencias con indumento piloso.
10.2307/3392167|The combinations Matelea fulvida (F. Ballard) W. D. Stevens and Dictyanthus asper (Miller) W. D. Stevens are proposed to make them available for the forthcoming Flora de Nicaragua.
20406089|The new name Johnstonalia Tortosa replaces the illegitimate name Johnstonia Tortosa (Rhamnaceae). /// El nuevo nombre Johnstonalia Tortosa reemplaza al nombre ilegtimo Johnstonia Tortosa (Rhamnaceae).
10.2307/3393005|Stigmaphyllon hispidum, a new species of Malpighiaceae, is described from Bahia, Brazil, where it was collected in a remnant of coastal forest, a vegetation type called Mata Atlntica. Its floral structure and adaxial laminar vesture are most similar to those of S. gayanum, an endemic of the region of Rio de Janeiro. The dense axial vesture, composed of simple basifixed hairs mixed with Y-shaped hairs, is unique in the genus.
10.2307/3391691|Paspalum biaristatum, a perennial species of subgenus Ceresia, is described, illustrated, and compared to its putative sister species, the annual P. longiaristatum Davidse & Filgueiras, as well as to other species in the subgenus. A new section, Biaristata, is described to accommodate the new species and P. longiaristatum.
10.2307/3391872|As a result of a revision of Pilocarpus Vahl (Rutaceae), three new species of Pilocarpus Vahl (Rutaceae) from Brazil are described and illustrated: Pilocarpus alatus C. J. Joseph ex Skorupa, Pilocarpus carajaensis Skorupa, and Pilocarpus sulcatus Skorupa. Data on the geographic distribution, habitat, and phenology are given for all the new taxa.
10.2307/3393563| Three new species (Carlowrightia venturae, Justicia zamudioi, and Tetramerium carranzae) and a new combination (Mirandea hyssopus based on Rhytiglossa hyssopus Nees) are proposed for the acanthaceous flora of the region in central Mexico covered by the Flora del Bajo y de Regiones Adyacentes. Morphological and palynological characters are used to distinguish these taxa from their Mexican congeners. Studies of Acanthaceae in this region reveal the presence of 59 species (5 endemic) in 18 genera there. /// Tres especies nuevas (Carlowrightia venturae, Justicia zamudioi, y Tetramerium carranzae) y una combinacin nueva (Mirandea hyssopus basada en Rhytiglossa hyssopus Nees) se proponen para la flora de acantceas de la regin de Mxico central cubierta por la Flora del Bajo y de Regiones Adyacentes. Los caracteres morfolgicos y palinolgicos se utilizan para distinguir estos taxa de sus congneres mexicanos. Los estudios de Acanthaceae en sta regin revelan la presencia de 59 especies (5 endmicas) en 18 gneros all. 
10.2307/3391884|Two new species, Urtica peruviana and U. pseudomagellanica, are described from Peru and Bolivia, respectively. Also, the new combinations U. lilloi (Hauman) Geltman and U. magellanica subsp. bracteata (Steudel) Geltman are made.
10.2307/3391449|Tigridia estelae sp. nov. from Durango, Mexico, is described and illustrated. It belongs to the T. multiflora complex and is closely related to T. matudae, from which it differs in the length of style branches, the position and blotching of the tepals, and in its habitat.
20406332|A new species of Malaxis Solander ex Swartz (Orchidaceae, Epidendroideae, Malaxideae), M. medinae Carnevali & Noguera Savelli, from Trujillo State in Andean Venezuela is proposed herein. The new taxon is related to the widespread M. soulei L. O. Williams, a species found from the southwestern United States southward into Panama. The plants, however, are smaller (to only 12.7 cm) and have proportionally longer peduncles (to 4.5 cm) that bear fewer flowers (12 to 25 per spike) with a much more triangular labellum with parallel apical teeth (vs. convergent in M. soulei). /// Una nueva especie de Malaxis Solander ex Swartz (Orchidaceae, Epidendroideae, Malaxideae), M. medinae Carnevali & Noguera Savelli, del estado Trujillo en los Andes venezolanos, es propuesta en este artculo. El nuevo taxn est relacionado cercanamente con la ampliamente distribuida M. soulei L. O. Williams, conocida desde el suroeste de los Estados Unidos hasta Panam. Las plantas de M. medinae son ms pequeas (solo hasta 12.7 cm) con pednculos proporcionalmente ms largos (hasta 4.5 cm) y con menos flores (12 a 25 por espiga) con un labelo ms triangular con dientes apicales paralelos (vs. convergentes en M. soulei).
10.2307/3393235|Bernardia fonsecae, endemic to Guerrero, Mexico, is described and illustrated, and habitat data are provided. Bernardia fonsecae is morphologically similar to B. mollis Lundell. They have in common long petioles, similar shape and size of the staminate bract, and a lobulate intrastaminal disc. Bernardia fonsecae differs from B. mollis in its leaf base and leaf shape, vestiture of the adaxial surface of the leaf, vestiture of the abaxial veins, diameter of the cicatricoso-crateriform glands, position of the staminate inflorescence, and number of stamens, among other characteristics.
10.2307/3391679|Six new species of Bignoniaceae from upper Amazonia are described as Arrabidaea affinis, Cuspidaria emmonsii, Distictis occidentalis, Haplolophium nunezii, Schlegelia cauliflora, and Schlegelia hirsuta. In addition, merger of Urbanolophium with Haplolophium is proposed, necessitating the new combination H. glaziovii.
23018463|The new name Papaver setiferum Goldblatt (Papaveraceae) is proposed for P. pseudoorientale (Fedde) Medw. (1918), which is a homonym for a plant of that name coined by E. G. Camus in 1898 for the hybrid P. orientale L.  P. lateritium K. Koch, described in detail but not named by J. R. Jungner in 1889.
10.2307/3392010|Coleogeton and Stuckenia are based on the same type species. Stuckenia has priority over Coleogeton, making Coleogeton superfluous. All necessary new combinations for taxa that occur in North America are proposed for use in the Flora of North America. These combinations include S. filiformis subsp. alpina and S. filiformis subsp. occidentalis.
20406204|The genus Rollinsia Al-Shehbaz is reduced to synonymy of Dryopetalon A. Gray (Brassicaceae), and the characters distinguishing the latter from Sibara Greene and Thelypodiopsis Rydberg are discussed. An expanded description of Dryopetalon (southern United States and northern Mexico) and a key, synonymies, and distributions of its eight species are presented. The new combinations D. breedlovei (Rollins) Al-Shehbaz, D. byei (Rollins) Al-Shehbaz, D. paysonii (Rollins) Al-Shehbaz, and D. viereckii (O. E. Schulz) Al-Shehbaz are proposed. Dryopetalon purpureum Rollins is reduced to synonymy of D. palmeri (S. Watson) O. E. Schulz, and D. crenatum var. racemosum Rollins and D. runcinatum var. laxiflorum Rollins are reduced to synonymy of their respective species. Arabis endlichii O. E. Schulz is lectotypified.
20406252|One new species for Polygalaceae from Brazil is described, illustrated, and compared with related species of Polygala L. subg. Hebeclada (Chodat) S. F. Blake. Polygala marquesiana J. F. B. Pastore & T. B. Cavalcanti is an attractive caespitose subshrub from the state of Gois, occurring in the high-altitude areas of Serra Geral do Paran in the central part of the Brazilian savannas. /// Urna nova espcie de Polygalaceae para o Brasil  descrita, ilustrada e comparada com espcies relacionadas de Polygala L. subgnero Hebeclada (Chodat) S. F. Blake. Polygala marquesiana J. F. B. Pastore & T. B. Cavalcanti  um belo subarbusto do estado de Gois, que ocorre em elevadas altitudes da Serra Geral do Paran, na poro central do cerrado brasileiro.
23018483|Alpinia oui Y. H. Tseng & Chih C. Wang, a new species of Zingiberaceae from southeastern Taiwan, is described and illustrated. This new species belongs to subgenus Alpinia Roxb. sect. Alpinia subsect. Catimbium (Horan.) R. M. Sm. It resembles A. zerumbet (Pers.) B. L. Burtt & R. M. Sm. in the shape and size of the flowers, but differs in the denser inflorescences and the dense brown pubescence of the capsules. According to the IUCN Red List Categories and Criteria, this species is assessed as Vulnerable (VU D1), because its wild populations number less than 1000 individuals and are so far known from only one locality in southeastern Taiwan.
10.2307/3391895|Scutellaria ebracteata, in section Cardinalis Epling, from Nicaragua, and S. tenuipetiolata in section Uliginosae Epling, from Costa Rica, are described, and identification keys to section Cardinalis as found in Honduras, Nicaragua, and Costa Rica and section Uliginosae as found in Nicaragua and Costa Rica are provided. The identity of Scutellaria nicaraguensis Sess & Mocio is discussed, and the type locality of S. purpurascens var. heterophylla Bentham is clarified and its affinity to other taxa is considered.
10.2307/3391499|Continuing studies in Myrsinaceae for Flora de Colombia revealed a heretofore undescribed species of Ardisia closely related to Ardisia pittieri Mez of Costa Rica and Panama.
10.2307/3393139|The following new species are described: Hippotis stellata C. M. Taylor & Rova, found from eastern Panama to northwestern Ecuador and distinguished by its closely grouped or possibly stellate trichomes; Pentagonia angustifolia C. M. Taylor, found in western Panama and formerly confused with P. nuciformis Dwyer; P. dwyeriana C. M. Taylor, found in western Panama and formerly confused with P. macrophylla Bentham; Pentagonia monocaulis C. M. Taylor, found in eastern Costa Rica and formerly confused with P. donnell-smithii (Standley) Standley; and Pentagonia sanblasensis C. M. Taylor, found in central Panama and also formerly confused with P. macrophylla. The new combination H. panamensis (Dwyer) C. M. Taylor is based on Duroia panamensis Dwyer, and a description is presented for this poorly known species, which is actually the most commonly collected species of Hippotis in Central America and adjacent northwestern Colombia.
43288941|Polygala sect. Gymnospora Chodat (Polygalaceae) is recognized at the generic rank based on recent phylogenetic evidence as Gymnospora (Chodat) J. F. B. Pastore with two new combinations, G. bianchetti (Chodat) J. F. B. Pastore and G. violoides (A. St.-Hil. & Moq.) J. F. B. Pastore. We also present a taxonomic key for species identification and argue that P. bianchetti Chodat should not be treated as a synonym of P. pedicellaris A. St.-Hil. & Moq. and that P. pedicellaris is better treated as a synonym of P. violoides A. St.-Hil. & Moq. (as G. violoides). Thus, the name P. bianchetti (as G. blanchetii) is established, in keeping with its traditional treatment. Lectotypifications are provided for the following five names: P. blanchetii, P. laxa Nes & Mart., P. martima Veil., P. pedicellaris, and P. violoides. Polygala seao Gymnospora Chodat (Polygalaceae)  reconhecida com status genrico, como Gymnospora (Chodat) J. F. B. Pastore, baseado nas evidencias filogenticas. Nos apresentamos duas novas combinaoes G. blanchetii (Chodat) J. F. B. Pastore e G. violoides (A. St.-Hil. & Moq.) J. F. B. Pastore, urna chave taxonmica para identificaao das duas especies e defendemos que P. blanchetii Chodat nao deveria ser tratada como um sinonimo de P. pedicellaris . St.-Hil. & Moq., enquanto que P. pedicellaris  melhor tratada como sinonimo de P. violoides A. St.-Hil. & Moq. (como G. violoides). Assim, o nome P. blanchetii (corno G. blanchetii)  estabelecido, maniendo o seu tratamento mais tradicional. So tambm indicados lecttipos para os seguintes nomes: P. blanchetii, P. laxa Nes & Mart., P. martima Veil., P. pedicellaris e P. violoides.
10.2307/3392965|A new genus in the Gesneriaceae, Cremospermopsis L. E. Skog & L. P. Kvist, is described from the very humid forests in the Colombian departments of Antioquia and adjacent Bolvar. The new genus of two species, C. cestroides and C. parviflora, is similar and may be related to Cremosperma, but differs in having inflorescence bracts, unequal calyx lobes, and spherical papillate seeds.
10.2307/3393575|Another species in Microlicia (Melastomataceae) is described and illustrated. Microlicia obtusifolia is known from the rocky slopes of Diamantina, Minas Gerais, Brazil. Microlicia obtusifolia Cogniaux ex R. Romero is distinguished from affined species (M. pusilla Cogniaux) by its obovate, 1- to 3-nerved leaves with obtuse apices and attenuate bases.
10.2307/3391934|A new genus, Xenophyllum, is described, which consists of 21 species extracted from Werneria s.l. (Compositae: Senecioneae). All members of this new genus are mat- or hummock-forming perennials that grow at high elevations (3000-5200 m) in the Andes from Colombia to northern Argentina and northern Chile. Included is a brief description of the disposition of the species of Werneria s.l. and a preliminary key to those included in Xenophyllum.
10.2307/3391607|A new combination, Guadua chacoensis, is made. Based on morphological evidence, G. chacoensis appears closely allied to G. trinii. A detailed illustration of the species is included, and morphological descriptions and illustrations of the seedling and fruit are provided.
10.2307/3391585|Two new combinations in Ichnocarpus and one new combination in Anodendron are proposed.
20406210|Tetracera forzzae Fraga & Aymard (Dilleniaceae), urna nova espcie da Zona da Mata de Minas Gerais, Brasil,  descrita, ilustrada e comparada com suas espcies afins. A nova espcie aparenta-se com T. empedoclea Gilg, T. portobellensis Beurling e T. parviflora (Rusby) Sleumer, diferindo destas por apresentar tricomas simples e estrelados na face adaxial da folha, sete spalas alm de ptalas com 7-8 mm de comprimento. Esta nova espcie  conhecida apenas da Zona da Mata de Minas Gerais, e  a quarta espcie Neotropical do gnero a apresentar apenas um carpelo. De acordo com os critrios da IUCN Red List das plantas em perigo essa espcie foi enquadrada na categoria em perigo. /// Tetracera forzzae Fraga & Aymard (Dilleniaceae), a new species from Brazil, is described and illustrated, and its relationships are discussed. The new species is morphologically related to T. empedoclea Gilg, T. portobellensis Beurling, and T. parviflora (Rusby) Sleumer; however, T. forzzae can be distinguished by its flowers with seven sepals, petals 7-8 mm long, and the leaves with simple and stellate trichomes on the adaxial surface. This new species is known only from the Zona da Mata of the state of Minas Gerais, and is the fourth Neotropical species of this genus so far discovered with a single carpel. According to the criteria of the IUCN Red List of endangered plant species this species is assigned to the EN (Endangered) category.
10.2307/3391383|Ophiochloa is described and illustrated as a new, monotypic genus and new species of the Digitariinae, Paniceae, from Goias, Brazil, characterized by ligules a row of hairs, solitary, unilateral, winged racemes that end in a sterile projection, adaxial spikelets, specialized, narrow 2-nerved lower lemma with 2 prominent setae, and hyaline, free, upper lemma and palea tips. It is a C<sub>4</sub> grass with Kranz anatomy. Its putative relationships are discussed. The new species is a narrow, serpentine endemic that grows on rocks along intermittent or permanent streams in the ultramafic rock belt of the cerrado of central Brazil.
3393428| While revising Rhynchospora sect. Pluriflorae Kkenthal, two species new to science were discovered and are described here. Furthermore, two new combinations are proposed, and lectotypifications of two of Kkenthal's names are proposed. The morphological variability of the species is discussed and related to their geographic distribution. /// Durante a reviso taxonmica de Rhynchospora sect. Pluriflorae Kkenthal, foram encontradas duas novas espcies para a Cincia, as quais esto sendo descritas neste trabalho. Alm disso, duas novas combinaes esto sendo propostas. So tambem propostas a lectotipificao de duas espcies de Kkenthal. A variabilidade morfolgica das espcies e discutida e relacionada com dados de distribuio geogrfica. 
10.2307/3393081|Three species of Symplocos are newly described from Panama and Costa Rica. Symplocos morii Almeda & L. Kelly, known from high-elevation western Panama, is distinguished by coriaceous leaves with entire and revolute margins, short, glabrous styles, and white fruits. Symplocos naniflora L. Kelly & Almeda is a low-elevation Costa Rican species with serrate leaf margins, small flowers, densely villous styles, and small fruits. Symplocos elliptica L. Kelly & Almeda, known from Cerro Hornito and Cerro Sapo, Panama, is distinguished by broadly elliptic leaves with crenate-denticulate margins and solitary flowers. All three species are likely members of Symplocos sect. Symplocastrum Brand based on their basally connate stamens that are adnate to the petals.
10.2307/3392200|Platymiscium curuense N. Zamora & Klitgaard (Papilionoideae: Dalbergieae), a new species from Costa Rica, is described and illustrated, and its taxonomic affinities are discussed.
10.2307/3392015|El gnero Lacmellea en Mesoamrica es tratado en una breve sinopsis. En adicin, una nueva especie de Lacmellea de Costa Rica, L. zamorae, es descrita e ilustrada. /// A brief synopsis of the genus Lacmellea in Mesoamerica is provided. Keys, exsiccatae, and descriptions are included. In addition, a new Costa Rican species of Lacmellea, L. zamorae, is described and illustrated.
10.2307/3391860|Chaptalia hintonii Bullock, endemic to Mexico, has floral characters that indicate affinities to the genus Gerbera. A new nomenclatural combination, Gerbera hintonii (Bullock) Katinas, is proposed, and a redescription and illustration of the species is presented. The differences between Chaptalia and Gerbera, and the relationships between G. hintonii and the allied sections of Gerbera, are discussed.
10.2307/3392979|The previously monotypic Neomartinella is expanded to include two additional species. Neomartinella grandiflora is described as new, and the new combination N. yungshunensis is proposed. Neomartinella is revised, and its relationship to Eutrema is discussed.
20406015|Three taxa found in the high mountains of East Africa are transferred from Philippia Klotzsch to Erica L., resulting in the following new combinations: Erica johnstonii (Schweinfurth ex Engler) Dorr, E. trimera subsp. abyssinica (Pichi-Sermolli & Heiniger) Dorr, and E. trimera subsp. meruensis (R. Ross) Dorr. A neotype is selected for Philippia johnstonii Schweinfurth ex Engler, which is the basionym of E. johnstonii. A key to the five subspecies of E. trimera (Engler) Beentje also is provided.
10.2307/3391788|Three new Andean species of the genus Huberia DC. are described and illustrated. These species were found between 1500 and 3350 m in restricted areas of northwestern Peru. The presence of staminodes in H. staminodia represents a new record for this floral structure for Huberia. A key is also provided for the four species of Huberia occurring in the Andean region: H. cogniauxii, H. peruviana, H. staminodia, and H. weberbaueriana.
10.2307/3391992|Two new orders, Tofieldiales and Nartheciales, are proposed for two phylogenetically isolated groups of monocotyledonous families, Tofieldiaceae and Nartheciaceae, long associated with a polyphyletic Melanthiales. Tofieldiales is better considered a member of the Alismatidae, being tentatively considered a member of the Alismatanae and the sister group of Alismatales (s.l.). Nartheciales remains a member of the Liliidae, forming a basal group within Lilianae.
20406100|Agave vazquezgarciae Chzaro & J. A. Lomel, a new species from the Sierra de Manantln Biosphere Reserve, Sierra de Cacoma, and Sierra de Cuale in southern Jalisco, Mexico, is described and illustrated. It belongs to subgenus Littaea (Tagliabue) Baker, group Amolae, and appears to be closely related to A. pedunculifera Trelease, which also occurs in western Mexico, including Jalisco. It differs from the latter in having a taller spike, much larger flowers, and firm, fibrous leaves that are narrower and have a larger, stouter terminal spine. /// Se describe e ilustra Agave vazquezgarciae Chzaro & J. A. Lomel especie nueva de la Reserva de la Biosfera Sierra de Manantln, Sierra de Cacoma y la Sierra de Cuale en el sur de Jalisco, Mxico. Pertenece al subgnero Littaea (Tagliabue) Baker, grupo Amolae y parece estar cercanamente relacionada a A. pedunculifera Trelease, la cual tambin habita en el oeste de Mxico, incluyendo Jalisco. Difiere de sta por una espiga ms larga, flores mucho ms grandes, hojas firmes, fibrosas y estrechas y espinas terminales ms firmes y largas.
10.2307/3393067|A new species of Phaseolus (Leguminosae, Phaseolinae) has been found in the montane forests of the Sierra de Talamanca in eastern Costa Rica, where it appears endemic. Distinctive traits include: radicant roots, purplish red internodes, veins of leaflets, primary bracts, inner face of standard, and wings. Differences with related taxa of Costa Rica and other parts of Central America are discussed, namely the smaller and rounded primary bracts as compared to P. macrolepis, and the radicant fibrous root system as compared to P. xanthotrichus.
23259411|Tropical seagrass communities are one of the most productive aquatic ecosystems on earth. A high diversity of seagrass species occurs in south-eastern Africa; however, these marine angiosperms are among the least studied in the world. To address this, we have revised Thalassodendron Hartog (Cymodoceaceae), one of the most representative seagrasses in these coastal waters. Morpho-anatomical analyses, complemented with field data, reveal that specimens from rocky habitats present a number of distinguishing characters (e.g., rhizome internode lengths, leaf epidermal cells, and flower structures) that recommend their exclusion from the species T. ciliatum (Forssk.) Hartog. A new species from rocky habitats, T. leptocaule Maria C. Duarte, Bandeira & Romeiras, is thus described and illustrated, with the type from Mozambique, and an identification key for the investigated taxa is presented.
10.2307/3393160|Review of the sectional nomenclature for the treatment of Carex for the Flora of North America disclosed a number of deficiencies in the currently accepted sectional names. Three sectional names needed typification, including Carex sect. Firmiculmes, lectotypified with C. geyeri, Carex sect. Inflatae, lectotypified with C. breweri, and Carex sect. Leptocephalae, lectotypified with C. leptalea. Several earlier names than those in use in recent monographs were also discovered, including Carex sect. Racemosae for Carex sect. Microrhynchae (Carex sect. Atratae), Carex sect. Thuringiaca for Carex sect. Glaucae, and Carex sect. Dornera for Carex sect. Callistachys. Two sectional names in common use, Carex sect. Hispidae, sect, nov., and Carex sect. Longicaules, sect, nov., were not published with Latin descriptions nor reference to previously published descriptions and are here validly published and precisely circumscribed. Finally, two new sections are proposed to accommodate North American species that did not fit adequately into existing sections. These are Carex sect. Glaucesentes, sect. nov., for four species of large, glaucous clump-forming wetland sedges with papillose perigynia and Carex sect. Hirtifoliae, sect, nov., a monotypic section for C. hirtifolia, a distinctive, pubescent-leaved forest understory species with long-beaked perigynia with nerveless faces.
20406231|Polypsecadium apolobamba Al-Shehbaz & A. Fuentes (Brassicaceae), a new species from Bolivia, is described and illustrated. It is readily distinguished from the other Bolivian species P. harmsianum (Muschler) O. E. Schulz by having uniseriate seeds, pilose leaves, and longer fruits, and from P. rusbyi (Britton) Al-Shehbaz by having shorter non-torulose fruits, smaller petals, and shorter and curved fruiting pedicels.
10.2307/3391810|A new species of Elvasia, E. bisepala, is described from Belize and Honduras. Elvasia bisepala possesses unique characters that help to clarify subgeneric classification in the genus and further expands the distribution of Elvasia from South America well into Central America. The new species is described and illustrated, and the subgeneric classification of Elvasia is reviewed and revised.
10.2307/3391744|A new combination in the Cactaceae, Opuntia lutea (Rose) Solomon, is needed to bring one of the species treated in the Flora de Nicaragua into conformity with the generic concepts utilized in the Flora.
20406183|Emmotum harleyi R. Duno (Icacinaceae), a new species of Emmotum Desvaux, is described, illustrated, and compared with E. nitens (Bentham) Miers. This new species from Bahia, Brazil, is distinguished by leaves densely tomentose abaxially with large and crisped hairs, secondary nerves 9 to 11, and ovary glabrous. Furthermore, lectotypes for E. nitens (Bentham) Miers and Mappia racemosa Jacquin var. brachycarpa Grisebach are designated.
10.2307/3391994|Leptochloa srilankensis N. Snow is described and diagnosed from the morphologically similar L. decipiens subsp. asthenes (formerly L. ciliolata) and previously misidentified specimens of L. panicea subsp. panicea. The species is restricted to Sri Lanka and is known from only five collections.
27765230|The new species Brickellia jimenezii Hinojosa & Cruz Durn (Asteraceae, Eupatorieae) is described from Guerrero, Mexico. It belongs to the Barroetea A. Gray complex within Brickellia Elliot, and is similar to B. subuligera (Schauer) B. L. Turner. The new species presents heads with more florets ([45 to]74 to 106 vs. 30 to 50 in B. subuligera), larger style branches and anthers (to 3.7 mm and 2.1 mm, respectively, vs. to 2 mm and to 1.3 mm, respectively, in B. subuligera), as well as cypselae with four well-defined ribs on each face (vs. none or two on the exterior face and none or one on the interior face in B. subuligera). A key to this species complex and an illustration of the new species are provided. Se describe la especie nueva Brickellia jimenezii Hinojosa & Cruz Durn (Asteraceae, Eupatorieae) proveniente del estado de Guerrero, Mxico. Esta especie pertenece al complejo Barroetea A. Gray de Brickellia Elliot, y est ms emparentada con B. subuligera (Schauer) B. L. Turner. La especie nueva presenta cabezuelas con ms flores ([45 a]74 a 106 vs. 30 a 50 en B. subuligera), ramas del estilo y anteras ms grandes (hasta 3.7 mm y 2.1 mm, respectivamente, vs. hasta 2 mm y 1.3 mm, respectivamente, en B. subuligera), as como cipselas con cuatro costillas bien definidas en cada lado (vs. ninguna o dos en el lado exterior y ninguna o una en el interior en B. subuligera.). Se proporcionan una clave para este complejo de especies y una ilustracin de la especie nueva.
10.2307/3392971|Reinstatement of segregate genera and the accompanying recombinations for species in the former polyphyletic Zigadenus complex allow for a revised, practical taxonomy that defines monophyletic groups and reflects phylogenetic relationships within tribe Melanthieae (Melanthiaceae). Nine new species combinations result from recircumscription of Zigadenus Michaux and Stenanthium (A. Gray) Kunth and from recognition of Anticlea Kunth and Toxicoscordion Rydberg. The genus Stenanthella Rydberg and the basionyms for Stenanthium leimanthoides (A. Gray) Zomlefer & Judd (Amianthium leimanthoides A. Gray) and Anticlea sachalinensis (F. Schmidt) Zomlefer & Judd (Stenanthium sachalinense F. Schmidt) are lectotypified.
20406045|Three new species of Eriocaulaceae belonging to genus Actinocephalus (Krnicke) Sano are recognized: Actinocephalus aggregatus F. N. Costa, A. deflexus F. N. Costa, and A. graminifolius F. N. Costa. These species are endemic to the Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brazil. They are placed in Actinocephalus based on the presence of the inflorescences composed of capitula in umbels, besides other floral and vegetative characteristics common to the genus. Comments about habitat and geographic distribution of the species are also presented. Trs espcies novas de Eriocaulaceae pertencentes ao gnero Actinocephalus (Krnicke) Sano so descritas: Actinocephalus aggregatus F. N. Costa, A. deflexus F. N. Costa e A. graminifolius F. N. Costa. Estas espcies so endmicas da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. Elas foram alocadas em Actinocephalus baseado na presena de inflorescncias compostas por captulos em umbelas, alm de outras caractersticas florais e vegetativas comuns ao gnero. Tambm so apresentados comentrios sobre o habitat e a distribuio geogrfica das espcies.
20406031|A new species of Magnoliaceae, Magnolia amabilis Y. K. Sima & Y. H. Wang, from Yunnan, China, is described and illustrated. The new species resembles Magnolia dianica Y. K. Sima & Figlar in the stipules adnate to the petiole and the petioles short, not exceeding 10 mm, and in the tepals 6 to more, 3- to 4-merous, subsimilar; it differs in its leaves oblanceolate to narrowly elliptic, glaucous beneath, with nerves in 13 to 17 pairs, in its tepals contracted-acute at the apex, and in its mature carpels, glabrous, dark green, tawny-black when dry.
20406122|The new species Onosma riedliana Binzet & Orcan (Boraginaceae) in subsection Asterotricha (Boissier) Grke is described and illustrated. The species is restricted to the north of Glnar (Mersin Province, southern Turkey). Diagnostic morphological characters for detailed discrimination from the most closely similar taxa are discussed.
20406138|Historically, taxonomic delimitation of Mandevilla Lindley, a large Neotropical genus of Apocynaceae, has been controversial. Two competing classifications were proposed by Woodson (1933) and Pichon (1948), the former now being widely accepted by taxonomists in the family. Recent phylogenetic studies, however, support the monophyly of Mandevilla sensu Pichon rather than sensu Woodson, the latter being paraphyletic with respect to Quiotania Zarucchi, Macrosiphonia Mller Argoviensis, and Telosiphonia (Woodson) Henrickson. Based on the principle of monophyly, we here re-establish Pichon's classification and include Quiotania, Macrosiphonia, and Telosiphonia as synonyms of Mandevilla. Three new combinations are made here: Mandevilla hesperia (I. M. Johnston) A. O. Simes, L. S. Kinoshita-Gouva & M. E. Endress, M. nacalpulensis (Felger & Henrickson) A. O. Simes, L. S. Kinoshita-Gouva & M. E. Endress, and M. undulata (C. Ezcurra) A. O. Simes, L. S. Kinoshita-Gouva & M. E. Endress; Q. colombiana Zarucchi is newly synonymized with M. ligustriflora Woodson; and a lectotype is designated for M. martii (Mller Argoviensis) Pichon.
3393289|A new subtribal classification for principally North American genera of Cichorieae allows for a practical taxonomy that reflects recent phylogenetic hypotheses. We propose the new subtribes Lygodesmiinae (for Chaetadelpha, Lygodesmia sensu Tomb, and Shinnersoseris), Pinaropappinae (for Marshalljohnstonia and Pinaropappus), Pyrrhopappinae (for Picrosia and Pyrrhopappus), and three monogeneric subtribes (Glyptopleurinae (Glyptopleura), Krigiinae (Krigia), and Phalacroseridinae (Phalacroseris)) for taxa previously treated in Malacothricinae, Microseridinae, and Stephanomeriinae. We recognize novel circumscriptions for Malacothricinae (Anisocoma, Atrichoseris, Calycoseris, and Malacothrix), Microseridinae (Agoseris, Microseris, Nothocalais, Stebbinsoseris, and Uropappus), and Stephanomeriinae (Munzothamnus, Pleiacanthus, Prenanthella, Rafinesquia, and Stephanomeria). The revised classification provides a more precise taxonomic representation of relationships among genera, insofar as robust resolution of monophyletic groups currently allows.
27765208|Eleocharis gonzaleziae D. J. Rosen, a new species from the high plateau of northern Mexico, is described from the state of Durango and illustrated. Taxonomic notes on the new species are provided, including a comparison to a morphologically similar species, E. bolanderi A. Gray. Eleocharis gonzaleziae D. J. Rosen, una nueva especie del Altiplano del Mxico norteo, se describe del estado de Durango y se ilustra. Las notas taxonmicas sobre la nueva especie se proporcionan, incluyendo una comparacin a una especie morfolgicamente parecida, E. bolanderi A. Gray.
10.2307/3391737|Lobelia guerrerensis is a new species endemic to pine, pine-oak, and mixed deciduous forests of the Sierra Madre del Sur in Guerrero, Mexico. Though collected several times over the past 60 years, the specimens were consistently misidentified as the narrow-leaved phase of L. laxiflora. Detailed phenetic analyses, however, have showed them to be morphologically quite distinct. In addition, several new combinations needed for a forthcoming checklist of world Campanulaceae are published.
10.2307/3392098|The new species Faramea correae C. M. Taylor, F. permagnifolia Dwyer ex C. M. Taylor, F. sanblasensis C. M. Taylor, Psychotria deneversii C. M. Taylor, P. purpureocapitata Dwyer ex C. M. Taylor, Rudgea hemisphaerica Dwyer ex C. M. Taylor, R. mandevilliifolia Dwyer ex C. M. Taylor, and R. mcphersonii Dwyer ex C. M. Taylor are described and illustrated, and the new combination Rudgea panamensis (Dwyer) C. M. Taylor is made based on Cephalis panamensis Dwyer.
10.2307/3391791|Grimmia involucrata is a Mexican endemic that has been confused with G. affinis, G. americana, and G. tergestina. It is recognized here as a valid, morphologically distinct species characterized by clavate stems, a gonioautoicous condition, differentiated perichaetial leaves, immersed sporophytes, and the smooth basal third of the outer plate of the peristome teeth. It is illustrated herein.
10.2307/3391429|Subtribe Vargasiellinae, proposed by C. Schweinfurth in 1952, is here validated. It is placed in tribe Maxillarieae, rather than in the Malaxideae, as originally proposed by Schweinfurth, based on new findings on the pollinarium structure of Vargasiella peruviana C. Schweinfurth.
20406107|Since the 19th century, the taxonomic identity of Musa rosea Baker has been uncertain to most botanists. Review of the history and descriptions of M. rosea based on the work of different scientists from 1893 to the present was done to establish its true identity. Musa angcorenis Gagnepain has been even more obscure since the early 20th century. The aim of this study was to clarify the taxonomic history, identity, and the synonymy of M. angcorensis and M. rosea, with M. angcorensis determined to be a synonym of M. rosea. A lectotype of M. rosea is designated here, and M. angcorensis is synonymized to M. rosea.
10.2307/3391855|Two new Andean species from Ecuador and Colombia are described in the genus Ribes. Ribes erectum is a shrubby species characterized by elliptic and mostly unlobed leaves, sessile glands, erect inflorescences, cup-shaped flowers, and ovaries with only sessile glands. Ribes austroecuadorense is characterized by ovate and 3-lobed to 3-cleft leaves, erect inflorescences, cup-shaped flowers, and pubescent ovaries. Both species are illustrated and discussed in a systematic context. /// Se describen dos especies nuevas andinas del gnero cosmopolita Ribes provenientes de Ecuador y Colombia. Ribes erectum es una especie arbustiva que se caracteriza por sus hojas elpticas y enteras, glndulas ssiles, inflorescencias erectas, flores cupuliformes y ovario nicamente con glndulas ssiles. Ribes austroecuadorense se caracteriza por sus hojas ovadas y 3-lobadas a 3-divididas, inflorescencias erectas, flores cupuliformes y ovarios densamente pubescentes. Ambas especies son ilustradas y discutidas en un contexto sistemtico.
20406070|Se describe Wigandia ecuadorensis Cornejo, una nueva especie de arbusto o arbolillo, endmica del fragmentado y disturbado bosque muy seco tropical, en la provincia de Manab, en la costa del Ecuador. Es parecida a W. urens (Ruiz & Pavn) Kunth s.l., de la que difiere por presentar ovarios ms grandes (5-8 mm vs. 3-4 mm); estilos de mayor longitud (16-28 mm vs. (4--)6-12(--15) mm); estambres con filamentos completamente glabros versus provistos de pelos hspidos, patentes a retrorsos; y corolas ms grandes (2-3.5 cm), con lbulos divergentes versus corolas ms pequeas (1.2-1.5(--2) cm), con lbulos patentes a ms o menos reflexos. Por sus cualidades de colonizadora subleosa y elevada tolerancia a los bajos niveles de precipitacin, esta nueva especie podra ser utilizada para recuperar la vegetacin nativa, y para proteccin de suelos poco consolidados en las reas de bosque muy seco tropical de la costa de Ecuador y la adyacente esquina noroccidental de Per. /// Wigandia ecuadorensis Cornejo is a new shrubby to treelet species restricted to the fragmented and disturbed tropical dry forests in the province of Manab, on the coast of Ecuador. It is somewhat similar to W. urens (Ruiz & Pavn) Kunth s.l. but differs by having larger ovaries (5-8 mm vs. 3-4 mm), longer styles (16-28 mm vs. (4--)6-12(--15) mm), filaments completely glabrous versus pubescent with patent to retrorse hispid trichomes, and larger corollas (2-3.5 cm) with divergent lobes versus smaller ones (1.2-1.5(--2) cm) with patent to more or less reflexed lobes. This new species is a subwoody colonizer in sunny, open places, having a high tolerance to low moisture levels; it may be used to recover the native vegetation and also to protect the loose soils in the very dry tropical forest life zone of coastal Ecuador and northwesternmost Peru.
20406215|Two new species in the Navarretia pubescens (Bentham) Hooker & Arnott complex of section Mitracarpium Brand are described: N. gowenii L. A. Johnson and N. ojaiensis Elvin, J. M. Porter & L. A. Johnson. Navarretia gowenii is known from disjunct locations in Contra Costa and Stanislaus counties of California. Navarretia ojaiensis is known from Ventura County, California. Additionally, examination of type specimens suggests N. mitracarpa Greene, presently placed in synonymy under N. pubescens, be recognized as a species distinct from the latter taxon, whereas N. jaredii Eastwood be recognized as a synonym of N. mitracarpa.
3393547|Ancistrocarphus keilii, a distinctive, rarely collected, previously undescribed, and recently rediscovered species endemic to Santa Barbara County, California, is formally named. Diaperia is resurrected for three North American species usually placed in, but clearly distinct from, Evax. The name Evax verna is neotypified to be consistent with current usage that includes Evax multicaulis (as a new synonym), and the new combinations Diaperia verna and Diaperia verna var. drummondii are provided. Diaperia prolifera var. barnebyi, a long-collected but previously undescribed variety from southeastern New Mexico, western Texas, and southwestern Oklahoma, is also formally named. Among Cassini's anagrammatic segregates from Filago, the priority of Logfia over Oglifa is at best ambiguous, but is adopted to preserve current usage in the Old World, pending a proposal to conserve. A priorable epithet being available, the new combination Logfia filaginoides is made for the species long known as Filago californica (newly synonymized), including Filago californica var. tomentosa (also a new synonym). The correct basionym of Oglifa is established as Gnaphalium subg. Oglifa, contrary to earlier interpretations.
10.2307/3391382|Se describe una nueva especie de Aragoa (Scrophulariaceae) de la Cordillera Oriental de Colombia. Se comenta su relacin con otras especies del grupo "abietina," al cual se adscribe. /// A new species of the genus Aragoa (Scrophulariaceae) from the Colombian Cordillera Oriental is described, and its relationships with other species of the "abietina" group, in which it is included, are discussed.
10.2307/3393076|Oreobolopsis inversa, a new species of Cyperaceae from the Andes occurring in Ecuador and Peru, is fully described and illustrated. It differs from Oreobolopsis tepalifera Koyama & Guaglianone by its stiff erect leaves and tepals shorter than the achene. The habit of the new species is very similar to Trichophorum rigidum (Steudel) Goetghebeur, Muasya & Simpson, but there are some remarkable differences in floral morphology between the two. In addition, the combination Oreobolopsis clementis (M. E. Jones) Dhooge & Goetghebeur is made.
10.2307/3391961|Marsdenia rzedowskiana es descrita como nueva. Esta especie ha sido confundida con M. macrophylla (Humboldt & Bonpland ex Schultes) E. Fournier pero est ms relacionada con M. pringlei S. Watson. La distribucin de M. rzedowskiana est restringida al noreste de Puebla y partes adyacentes de Veracruz, hacia el sur de la distribucin conocida de M. pringlei y en altitudes superiores a las de M. macrophylla. /// Marsdenia rzedowskiana is described. This new species has been confused with M. macrophylla, but is most closely related to M. pringlei. Marsdenia rzedowskiana seems to be restricted to northeastern Puebla and adjacent Veracruz, to the south of the known distribution of M. pringlei and at higher elevations than M. macrophylla.
10.2307/3391986|Two new species of Festuca from Mexico are described and illustrated: F. roblensis, from the states of Guanajuato and Zacatecas, and F. valdesii, from the Sierra Madre Oriental in the states of Coahuila, Nuevo Len, and Tamaulipas. /// Se describen e ilustran dos especies nuevas de Festuca de Mxico: F. roblensis, de los estados de Guanajuato y Zacatecas, y F. valdesii, de la Sierra Madre Oriental en los estados de Coahuila, Nuevo Len y Tamaulipas.
10.2307/3393121|Rediscovery in the late 1990s of the mysterious Moraea ovata Thunberg, described in 1800 and first collected in 1793 in early fruit, shows that the species belongs to the related genus Ferraria. Flowers, only found in June 2001, show that it has parallel anther locules and a spindle-shaped ovary without a sterile beak, features consistent with section Ferraria of the genus. The new combination F. ovata is provided for the species, which we speculate is most closely related to F. densepunctulata, native to the west coast of Western Cape Province, South Africa. The range of F. ovata is restricted to low to middle elevations in central Namaqualand in Northern Cape Province, South Africa.
10.2307/3393040|Three Mexican endemic species of shrubby habit and apparent thelypodioid affinities (Iodanthus acuminatus, I. mexicanus, and I. petiolatus) are separated from the eastern North American herb Iodanthus pinnatifidus as the genus Chaunanthus O. E. Schulz. The new combinations Chaunanthus acuminatus and C. mexicanus are proposed. The distinguishing features and geographic distribution of the genus Chaunanthus are discussed, and a key to species and synopsis of its three included species are presented.
10.2307/3391587|Seis especies nuevas de Meliaceae son descritas: Trichilia primogenita, T. obovata, Guarea riparia, G. ecuadoriensis, Ruagea membranacea, y R. microphylla. La primer especie pertenece al noroccidente del Ecuador en el borde con Colombia y las cinco restantes a las areas limtrofes entre Ecuador, Per, y Colombia en la parte ms occidental de la Amazona. Caracteres excepcionales o la combinacin de varios caracteres, determinan que las especies descritas sean distintas de las especies conocidas. /// Six new species of Meliaceae are described: Trichilia primogenita, T. obovata, Guarea riparia, G. ecuadoriensis, Ruagea membranacea, and R. microphylla. The first species occurs in northwestern Ecuador, near the Colombian border, and the five remaining species are from extreme western Amazonia, in the border region between Ecuador, Peru, and Colombia. Exceptional characters or combinations of characters distinguish the new taxa from known species of Meliaceae.
10.2307/3393036|A study of morphological characters of Paeonia veitchii Lynch, based on over 180 specimens, reveals that the following new combination is necessary: P. anomala L. subsp. veitchii (Lynch) D. Y. Hong & K. Y. Pan, comb. et stat. nov. The name is also lectotypified. Three previously recognized varieties of P. veitchii are here reduced to synonymy for the first time: P. veitchii var. leiocarpa W. T. Wang & S. H. Wang ex K. Y. Pan, P. veitchii var. uniflora K. Y. Pan, and P. Woodwardii Stern & Cox.
20406180|Doliocarpus schultesianus Aymard from moist forests in the upper Ro Negro region (Vaups department) and D. triananus Aymard from montane forests in Antioquia department, Colombia, are described, illustrated, and compared to their closely related species. Doliocarpus schultesianus is not evidently allied to any other Doliocarpus Rolander species; this new species has inflorescences produced from short shoots (brachyblasts) and young fruit completely covered by stinging yellow trichomes. Doliocarpus triananus is most similar to D. pipolyi Aymard due its chartaceous leaves with margins dentate along the blade and its papyraceous basal bracteoles, but it differs from that species in its leaf and sepal shape, dense pubescence along the midrib and secondary nerves on the lower surface, peduncle patent-pilose, and fruit 10-12 mm in diameter, completely covered by white trichomes. An updated key to the 19 species of Doliocarpus from Colombia is provided. /// Doliocarpus schultesianus Aymard de bosques hmedos de la regin del alto ro Negro (departamento de Vaups) y D. triananus Aymard de bosques montanos del departamento de Antioquia, Colombia, son descritas, ilustradas y comparadas con sus especies afines. Doliocarpus schultesianus no se relaciona con ninguna especies de Doliocarpus Rolander en particular; esta nueva especie posee inflorescencias dispuestas en los entre nudos muy cortos (braquiblastos) y frutos jvenes completamente cubiertos por tricomas urticantes de color amarillo. Por sus hojas cartceas, mrgenes dentados a lo largo de la lmina y bractolas bsales papirceas D. triananus es similar a D. pipolyi Aymard, sin embargo difiere de esta especie en la forma de las hojas y spalos, pubescencia muy densa en el nervio central y nervios secundarios por el envs, pednculos patentes pilosos y frutos 10-12 mm en dimetro, completamente cubierto por tricomas blancos. Se presenta una clave actualizada de las 19 especies de Doliocarpus registradas de Colombia.
20406354|A study of the diversity of Dioscorea bulbifera L. (Dioscoreaceae) in China has revealed a distinctive new variety from Yunnan Province, China. Dioscorea bulbifera var. albotuberosa Y. F. Zhou, Z. L. Xu & Y. Y. Hang differs from D. bulbifera by its tubers white in transverse section, bulblets verruculose, and leaf texture membranaceous, papery, and crispy when dry.
20406347|The preparation of the taxonomic treatment of Nama L. (Hydrophyllaceae) for the Flora Mesoamericana resulted in the discovery of a new species from Guatemala. Nama segetale Ricketson is described and illustrated. /// El estudio preparatorio para llevar a cabo un tratamiento taxonmico del gnero Nama L. (Hydrophyllaceae) para la Flora Mesoamericana result en el descubrimiento de una especie nueva para la ciencia, Nama segetale Ricketson, proveniente de Guatemala, que se describe e ilustre.
3393317| Three new Argentinian species of Physaria, P. crassistigma, P. lateralis, and P. pygmaea, are described and illustrated. The new combinations P. mendocina and P. urbaniana are proposed. A key to the five South American species of Physaria is given. Brief comments are presented on the disjunction of these South American species and their relationships to their North American relatives. /// Se describen e ilustran tres especies argentinas de Physaria, P. crassistigma, P. lateralis y P. pygmaea. Se proponen dos nuevas combinaciones: P. mendocina y P. urbaniana. Se provee una clave para las cinco especies de Physaria sudamericanas. Se presentan comentarios breves acerca de la disyuncin de estas especies sudamericanas y de los parentescos con sus parientes norteamericanos. 
41811682|A new species of Nectandra Rol. ex Rottb. (Lauraceae) from Cajamarca, Peru, is described and illustrated. Nectandra ovatocaudata Rohwer appears to be related to N. amazonum Nees, but differs in its leaf shape, in having a receptacle that is densely pubescent inside, and in its habitat.
10.2307/3391555|A new species of Old World Sarcostemma, Sarcostemma mulanjense from Malawi, is described.
3393465| Three new species, Cissus nicaraguensis, C. patellicalyx, and Ampelocissus mesoamericana, are described from Nicaragua, Costa Rica, and El Salvador, respectively. Cissus nicaraguensis can be distinguished from all other Neotropical species by the combination of urceolate calyx and simple leaves. Cissus patellicalyx is recognized by its subspherical floral buds, immature fruits minutely tuberculate when dried, and the distinctly raised nerves of the abaxial leaf surface. Ampelocissus mesoamericana is characterized by lenticels, indument, and the obpyriform flower buds. /// Se describen tres nuevas especies, Cissus nicaraguensis, C. patellicalyx y Ampelocissus mesoamericana, de Nicaragua, Costa Rica y El Salvador, respectivamente. Cissus nicaraguensis puede distinguirse de todas las otras especies neotropicales por la combinacin de un cliz urceolado y las hojas simples. Cissus patellicalyx se reconoce por los botones florales subesfricos, los frutos inmaduros diminutamente tuberculados cuando secos y los nervios distintamente prominentes en el lado abaxial de las hojas. Ampelocissus mesoamericana se caracteriza por las lenticelas y el indumento, y los botones florales obpiriformes. 
23259409|Passiflora cacao Bernacci & M. M. Souza is described. The Passifloraceae has a limited known distribution area in southern Bahia, Brazil. This new species is not very abundant and occurs in a mountainous area associated with dense ombrophilous forest noteworthy for its great biodiversity, including many species of hummingbirds. Passiflora cacao is similar to P. edulis Sims, but it can easily be recognized by the cylindrical hypanthium and winged seeds. In addition, the flowers are usually smaller, with inner corona and outer corona series greater in number.
10.2307/3391806|The new combination Temnadenia odorifera (Vellozo) J. F. Morales is proposed here. Laubertia gentlei Lundell is reduced to synonymy of L. peninsularis Woodson.
3393430|Two new species of Alstroemeria (Alstroemeriaceae) from the Brazilian savannas are described: A. stenophylla M. C. Assis, which is characterized by its narrow linear-lanceolate leaves, concentrated on the distal region of the vegetative stem, and for its ruby-spotted inner tepals, close to A. gardneri Baker and A. plantaginea Martius ex Schultes & Schultes f.; and A. tombolatoana M. C. Assis, which may be recognized by its coriaceous leaves, outer tepals oblong-spatulate, without patterning, but the inner tepals spatulate and ruby-maculate, sympatric with A. gardneri. Descriptions, comments, and illustrations are presented.
10.2307/3391660|In preparing the treatment of the Verbenaceae for the Manual de la Flora de Costa Rica, Aegiphila specimens with large, cupulate, Quararibea-like fruits were found. These turned out to be a new species, here described as A. quararibeana. The new species is a canopy liana with the largest fruit of any lianescent species in the genus.
23018489|A new species, Elatostema recurviramum W. T. Wang & Y. G. Wei (Urticaceae), from Guangxi, China, is described and illustrated, and its affinities are discussed. It most closely resembles E. cyrtandrifolium (Zoll. & Moritzi) Miq., from which it differs in the recurved stems and branches, the denticulate margin of the leaf apex, the larger, ovate stipules, the presence of densely distributed cystoliths on the blade midrib, and the glabrous, lineolate achenes. The new taxon was collected from a limestone cave and is considered to be Critically Endangered (CR) according to IUCN Red List criteria.
10.2307/3391889|A new species of Asclepiadaceae-Stapelieae from central Madagascar, Ceropegia striata Meve & Masinde, is described and illustrated. The delicate, tuberous twiner is characterized by linear corolla lobes and purplish, adaxially bulging vascular bundles resulting in the conspicuous striation of the completely whitish-greenish corolla. Due to similarities in vegetative growth and corona morphology, C. striata is probably nearest to C. madagascariensis Decaisne.
40856297|Four new species of Ribes L. (Grossulariaceae) are described from Peru, three from the AmotapeHuancabamba Zone and one from the eastern slopes of the Andes in central Peru. Ribes chachapoyense Weigend & Breitkopf, R. tumerec Weigend & Breitkopf, and R. huancabambense Weigend & Breitkopf from the Amotape-Huancabamba Zone represent close allies of Ecuadorian species and underscore both the floristic connections of this region to Ecuador and its high levels of floristic distinctness and endemism. With these three new species, the species total for the Peruvian part of the Amotape-Huancabamba Zone now reaches 10, nearly half the species present in Peru. Ribes frankei Weigend & Breitkopf is possibly the most aberrant species of Ribesit is a small, cushion-forming dwarf-shrub to 30 cm tall, with erect inflorescences that are virtually immersed in the leafy cushions. It is the smallest species of Ribes known so far and has been collected on vertical rock faces in the high Andes of Pasco in central Peru. The species total for Peruvian Ribes now reaches 23, which is nearly twice the number of species known for any other individual South American country, indicating that Peru, and especially the AmotapeHuancabamba Zone, represents the center of diversity of the genus in South America. Three of the newly described species are already at the brink of extinction due to habitat destruction (overgrazing, burning, mining, forest clearing: R. tumerec, R. frankei, R. huancabambense) and have to be considered as Critically Endangered. The fourth species, R. chachapoyense, has a slightly wider range and can be considered as only Endangered according to IUCN Red List criteria.
10.2307/3393205|Maytenus masindei Gereau (Celastraceae) and Vepris hiernii Gereau (Rutaceae) are published as avowed substitutes (replacement names) for Maytenus conferta Masinde ex N. Robson and Cranzia angolensis Hiern.
10.2307/3393189|Paederia taolagnarensis Razafimandimbison & C. M. Taylor is described from Petriky, Taolagnaro, Madagascar. This new species is distinguished from other Paederia species of Madagascar by its cymose-paniculate inflorescences that are rather congested, showing "double" scorpioid cyme structure, and its thickened peduncles and pedicels. It grows on stabilized dunes in the Petriky region, Taolagnaro. A description and dichotomous key are provided. /// Paederia taolagnarensis Razafimandimbison & C. M. Taylor a t dcrite de la rgion de Petriky, Taolagnaro, Madagascar. Cette nouvelle espce est distingue des autres Paederia de Madagascar par ses inflorescences en panicule de cyme, qui sont plutt arrondies et parfois ramifies dichotomiquement, et ont des pdoncules et pdicelles paisses. Elle pousse sur les dunes dans la rgion de Petriky, Taolagnaro. Sa description et une cl dichotomique ont t inclues.
3393417| A new species of Siparuna (Siparunaceae), S. ficoides, is described, illustrated, and placed in a phylogenetic context based on morphological and DNA sequence data. The species, which is a monoecious subcanopy tree, is known from three collections made near Manaus, Brazil (two from the same tree), and one in the state of Bolvar, Venezuela. /// Se describe y se ilustra una nueva especie de Siparuna (Siparunaceae), S. ficoides, adems se la ubica en un contexto filogentico basado en datos morfolgicos y en sequencias de DNA. Esta nueva especie es un rbol monoico de subdosel, de la cual se han registrado tres colecciones cerca de Manaos, Brasil (dos del mismo rbol) y una coleccin en el Estado de Bolvar, Venezuela. 
10.2307/3391692|Three names in Urtica described by A. Steudel are lectotypified: U. pseudodioica, U. mollis, and U. bracteata.
3393482| Se describe e ilustra Eysenhardtia officinalis (Leguminosae, Papilionoideae), una especie nueva de Mxico. Eysenhardtia officinalis guarda similitud con E. polystachya (Ortega) Sargent y E. texana Scheele, pero difiere en el nmero y morfologa de los fololos, inflorescencias ms largas, la morfologa de la flor y del fruto, as como una distribucin altitudinal menor. Se incluye un cuadro comparativo para distinguir las especies cercanas a este nuevo taxn. /// Eysenhardtia officinalis (Leguminosae, Papilionoideae), a new species from Mexico, is described and illustrated. This species appears similar to E. polystachya (Ortega) Sargent and E. texana Scheele, but differs in the number and morphology of the leaflets, the longer inflorescences, the flower and fruit morphology, and in altitudinal distribution. A table for comparing related taxa is also provided. 
23018464|The new species Bonamia jiviorum J. R. Grande (Convolvuloideae, Cresseae) is described and illustrated from northwestern Amazonas in Venezuela. This new taxon is morphologically similar to B. apurensis D. F. Austin. It is characterized by its relatively small, ovate-orbicular leaves that are densely rough-tomentulose over both surfaces and have a truncate to subcordate base and rounded to obtuse, mucronulate or minutely retuse apex; relatively lax, aphyllous infructescences with relatively short peduncles and relatively short, adpressed bracts; orbicular sepals; glabrous fruits crowned by copper-colored setose hairs; and densely pustulate, irregularly striate, conspicuously winged seeds. Bonamia jiviorum is known only from the vicinity of Puerto Ayacucho, over low-altitude granitic boulders known locally as lajas. Se describe e ilustra Bonamia jiviorum J. R. Grande (Convolvuloideae, Cresseae) del noroccidente del estado Amazonas de Venezuela. Esta nueva especie es morfolgicamente afn a B. apurensis D. F. Austin y se caracteriza por presentar lminas foliares relativamente pequeas, ovadoorbiculares, truncadas hasta subcordadas en la base, redondeadas hasta obtusas, mucronuladas  retusas en el pice, con pubescencia densa, spero-tomentulosa, por ambas caras; inflorescencias filas, relativamente laxas, con pednculos relativamente cortos y brcteas adpresas relativamente cortas; spalos orbiculares; frutos coronados por un mechn de pelos setosos cobrizos, del resto glabros; y semillas con superficie densamente pustulada e irregularmente estriada, con alas sobre las aristas laterales alcanzando los 0.2 mm de largo. Bonamia jiviorum slo se conoce de los alrededores de la ciudad de Puerto Ayacucho, donde se encuentra creciendo sobre afloramientos granticos de baja altitud conocidos localmente como lajas.
20406244|Musa itinerans Cheesman (Musaceae) is dispersed across continental Southeast Asia from Northeast India to Vietnam and the adjacent islands, with only two previously described varieties. Its intraspecific taxa have not been comprehensively investigated. In this study, M. itinerans is morphologically circumscribed based on field studies in southern China. Four varieties are described as new: M. itinerans var. chinensis Hkkinen, M. itinerans var. guangdongensis Hkkinen, M. itinerans var. lechangensis Hkkinen, and M. itinerans var. xishuangbannaensis Hkkinen. We propose a new rank for M. itinerans subsp. annamica R. V. Valmayor, L. D. Danh & Hkkinen as M. itinerans var. annamica (R. V. Valmayor, L. D. Danh & Hkkinen) Hkkinen. A table for the distinguishing characteristics is provided for these varieties and for M. itinerans var. itinerans Cheesman. All of these studies are based on morphological characteristics observed in the field in China during 2005 and 2006, in various herbaria, and in the literature on Musaceae.
3393332|Pennellia brachycarpa (Brassicaceae), a new species from the province of Jujuy in northern Argentina, is described and illustrated. The new species is distinguished from other members of the genus by having corymbose rather than lax racemes and forked and Y-shaped instead of dendritic trichomes.
10.2307/3391424|Recent exploration in the Marojejy Natural Reserve has resulted in the discovery of a new species, Ardisia (subg. Akosmos) marojejyensis. The species is described and illustrated, and its phylogenetic relationships are discussed. A key to distinguish the three known Madagascan species of Ardisia is provided, and subgenus Madardisia is relegated to synonymy under subgenus Akosmos.
10.2307/3393253|Investigacin morfolgica y ecolgica reciente, tanto en la costa norte de Jalisco como en la Zona Centro del mismo Estado, apoyan el reconocimiento de Magnolia pugana (H. H. Iltis & A. Vzquez) A. Vzquez & Carvajal a nivel de especie. /// Recent morphological and ecological investigation in both the northern Jaliscan coast and central Jalisco support the recognition of Magnolia pugana (H. H. Iltis & A. Vzquez) A. Vzquez & Carvajal at the species level.
10.2307/3391845|A new species of Justicia with heteromorphic bracts, J. nevlingii, is described from southern Mexico. The species is compared to two other heteromorphically bracted species from Mexico and Central America, J. chol and J. costaricana. It differs from these in several features, including its 4-aperturate pollen.
10.2307/3391836|The new subspecies Mitrasacme erophila subsp. grandiflora (Loganiaceae) and Pedicularis thailandica subsp. parvula (Scrophularia ceae) are described.
3393421| Euphorbia derickii, a new species in Euphorbia subg. Chamaesyce (Euphorbiaceae), is described and illustrated. It is endemic to central Mexico and presently known from 11 widely separated collections in the states of Guanajuato, Guerrero, Michoacn, and Morelos. Although similar to Euphorbia hirta and E. lineata in most features, it can be distinguished from these and all other Mexican species of Euphorbia subg. Chamaesyce by its seeds, which possess sharp, well-defined, uninterrupted, transverse ribs. /// Se describe e ilustra Euphorbia derickii, una especie nueva de Euphorbia subg. Chamaesyce (Euphorbiaceae). La especie nueva es endmica del centro de Mxico y conocida de once colectas de los estados de Guanajuato, Guerrero, Michoacn y Morelos. Es semejante a Euphorbia hirta y E. lineata pero difiere de ellas y las otras especies mexicanas de Euphorbia subg. Chamaesyce por tener semillas con costillas transversales notarias, contnuas y con el borde agudo. 
10.2307/3391380|Five species of Mabea new to science are proposed and distinguished from their relatives, based to a large extent on characters of pistillate flowers and leaves. All have a limited distribution. Another species is reduced to a subspecies of M. fistulifera.
10.2307/3391677|A new species of Olacaceae from Amazonian Peru is described as Aptandra caudata.
10.2307/3391898|Two new species of Larnax (Solanaceae) are described and illustrated. Larnax andersonii is a small shrub with unequal, geminate leaves and long, bifurcate hairs. It occurs along the eastern slopes of the Ecuadorian Andes. The flower structure of L. andersonii is similar to another Ecuadorian species, L. suffruticosa. Larnax psilophyta, a high-elevation species endemic to southern Ecuador, is a small-flowered, glabrous shrub with indurate, fleshy leaves that is often confused with Deprea glabra.
20406292|Hedyotis cheniana R. J. Wang and H. wuzhishanensis R. J. Wang, from Hainan Province, China, are described as new. Hedyotis cheniana is similar to H. terminaliflora Merrill & Chun in having a terminal condensed inflorescence, but differs in having elliptic to ovate, or sometimes circular leaves with rounded or truncated leaf bases and distinct petioles, narrowly triangular stipules with a lacerate margin, heterostylous flowers, and short calyx tubes. Hedyotis wuzhishanensis is similar to H. paridifolia Dunn in having two pairs of leaves that are closely adjacent to the terminal inflorescence, but it can be distinguished by its covering of sparse to dense hairs on all vegetative organs, four to five pairs of secondary veins, and distinct petioles. These two new species belong to Hedyotis sect. Diplophragma Wight & Arnott based on the dehiscent pattern of their mature capsules.
10.2307/3393224|A rare new species of the Pacific genus Cyrtandra, C. paliku, is described from the Hawaiian Islands. It is unique in its combination of thick stems with shaggy, reddish brown villous pubescence, leaves strongly inequilateral, petioles shaggy villous, and calyx weakly zygomorphic and persistent. Known from northeastern Kaua'i, Cyrtandra paliku occurs only on Mount Namahana and is restricted to north-facing rock faces. A single population of about 70 plants occurs on vertical saturated walls.
10.2307/3391739|Se describen y se ilustran seis nuevas especies de Vriesea sect. Xiphion para Costa Rica: V. barii, V. haberii, V. osaensis, V. simulans, V. tiquirensis y V. vulcanicola. Se discuten sus relaciones dentro del gnero. Todas son endmicas por el momento. /// Six new species of Vriesea from Costa Rica, V. barii, V. haberii, V. osaensis, V. simulans, V. tiquirensis, and V. vulcanicola, are described and illustrated. In addition, their relationships are discussed. All are endemic as far as is known.
23018485|Quercus delgadoana S. Valencia, Nixon & L. M. Kelly (Fagaceae), a new species from the states of Hidalgo, Puebla, and Veracruz in the Sierra Madre Oriental, Mexico, is described and illustrated. We discuss its morphological similarity to Q. eugeniifolia Liebm., Q. sapotifolia Liebm., Q. salicifolia Ne, Q. laurina Bonpl., and Q. affinis Scheidw., with which it shares narrowly lanceolate leaves and fasciculate stipitate trichomes in the axils of the secondary veins on the underside of the lamina. A dichotomous key is provided to distinguish these species. Se describe e ilustra Quercus delgadoana S. Valencia, Nixon & L. M. Kelly (Fagaceae), una especie nueva de los estados de Hidalgo, Puebla y Veracruz en la Sierra Madre Oriental, Mxico. Se discute su similitud morfolgica con Q. eugeniifolia Liebm., Q. sapotifolia Liebm., Q. salicifolia Ne, Q. laurina Bonpl. y Q. affinis Scheidw., con las que comparte la forma lanceolada de las hojas y la presencia de tricomas fasciculados estipitados en las axilas de las venas secundarias en el envs. Se presenta una clave dicotmica para su identificacin.
10.2307/3393202|A new species of Tradescantia (sect. Cymbispatha), T. grantii Faden, is described from Costa Rica. Based on its morphology and karyotype the new species is most closely related to T. plusiantha from Mexico and probably T. deficiens from Mexico and Guatemala.
20406328|Habenaria pseudoglaucophylla J. A. N. Batista, R. C. Mota & N. Abreu (Orchidaceae, Orchideae, Habenariinae), a new species from the state of Minas Gerais, Brazil, is described and illustrated. The species was first collected in 1970, but previously misidentified as H. glaucophylla Barbosa Rodrigues and H. umbraticola Barbosa Rodrigues. Distinctive features of the new species are the rosulate leaves, the deeply tripartite lip, the oblong posterior petal lobe with a truncate apex, and the short, tooth-like anterior petal lobe. The new species occurs in campo rupestre vegetation, usually associated with quartzite outcrops. /// Habenaria pseudoglaucophylla J. A. N. Batista, R. C. Mota & N. Abreu (Orchidaceae, Orchideae, Habenariinae), urna nova espcie para o estado de Minas Gerais,  descrita e ilustrada. A espcie foi coletada pela primeira vez em 1970, mas identificada erroneamente como H. glaucophylla Barbosa Rodrigues e H. umbraticola Barbosa Rodrigues. Caracteres distintivos para a nova espcie so as folhas rosuladas, o labelo profundamente tripartido, o segmento posterior das ptalas oblongo, com pice truncado e o segmento anterior das ptalas curto, dentiforme. A nova espcie ocorre em campo rupestre, geralmente associada a afloramentos de quartzito.
3393334|The new species Hypericum qinlingense (Clusiaceae) is described and illustrated from the southern slope of Mount Qinling in Shaanxi Province, China. The new species belongs to Hypericum sect. Adenosepalum by its glabrous, perennial, herbaceous habit, persistent perianth and androecium, sepals with large stalked black glands, three bundles of stamens, and three free styles, as well as by the alveolate seeds. The new species is similar to Hypericum elodeoides Choisy in its scorpioidal dichasium, but differs in its bracts and flowers. A key to the Chinese species of Hypericum sect. Adenosepalum is included.
10.2307/3391574|Desmodium adscendens (Swartz) DC. var. orinocense DC. se ha elevado a nivel de especie como D. orinocense (DC.) Cuello, y se le ha designado un lecttipo. /// Desmodium adscendens (Swartz) DC. var. orinocense DC. is elevated to species level as Desmodium orinocense (DC.) Cuello, and a lectotype is designated.
23259424|Staelia catolensis R. M. Salas & E. L. Cabral, una nueva especie (Rubiaceae, Spermacoceae) de Bahia, Brasil, es descrita e ilustrada. El nuevo taxn es aparentemente endmico de Serra de Catols en reas de campos rupestres. Staelia catolensis es similar a S. thymoides Cham. & Schltdl. en el hbito pequeo e inflorescencias con crecimiento determinado y puede distinguirse de esta ltima por las hojas aciculares con pice punzante, corola externamente papilosa y granos de polen microreticulados. Staelia catolensis R. M. Salas & E. L. Cabral, a new species (Rubiaceae, Spermacoceae) from Bahia, Brazil, is described and illustrated. The new taxon is apparently endemic from the Serra de Catols in areas of campos rupestres. The new species resembles S. thymoides Cham. & Schltdl., with which it shares a small stature and determinate inflorescence. Staelia catolensis differs by its acicular leaves with a pungent tip, the external indumentum of the corolla, and the pollen grains with microreticulate exine.
10.2307/3391742|The 10 South African species currently assigned to Laurentia (an otherwise Mediterranean genus) are segregated here as the genus Wimmerella on the basis of their basal (vs. medial) bracteoles; larger flowers and fruits; and subglobose (vs. ellipsoid) seeds lacking a strophiole, which are sulcate with flattened (vs. keeled) walls.
10.2307/3391438|Maesa striatocarpa, M. densistriata, and M. longilanceolata are described as new. All three are endemic to Yunnan, China.
10.2307/3393520|Cymbidium chawalongense C. L. Long, H. Li & Z. L. Dao (Orchidaceae), collected from southeast Xizang (Tibet), China, is described as new. The new species is similar to C. floribundum Lindley in morphology and habitat, but differs in having an erect scape, very widely spread flowers, pale green sepals and petals, and a white, nonmottled lip.
10.2307/3391507|Because of extensive morphological intermediacy, plants formerly distinguished at the species level as Gnaphalium beneolens, G. microcephalum, G. thermale, and G. wrightii are treated as intergrading races of the widespread G. canescens. The new combinations, G. canescens subsp. beneolens, G. canescens subsp. microcephalum, and G. canescens subsp. thermale are made.
3393505|The new name Carex capilliculmis S. R. Zhang is proposed to replace the later homonym Carex filamentosa K. T. Fu. Carex capilliculmis belongs to section Digitatae and is found in western China.
3393460| A new species in Astragalus, endemic for Peru, is described for Leguminosae, Galegeae. Astragalus sagasteguii may be compared with the related A. dillinghami Macbride in Peru and A. diminutivus (Philippi) Gmez-Sosa in Bolivia and Argentina. The new combination Astragalus diminutivus is made, transferring the species from the genus Phaca. In addition, Astragalus deminutivus I. M. Johnston newly synonymizes to A. diminutivus. Further, Astragalus dielsii Macbride is recognized as a variety to A. diminutivus. The geographical distribution of Astragalus diminutivus var. dielsii extends from Peru into Bolivia and Argentina. Morphological description and comparison, illustration, as well as habitat and geographical distribution are provided. /// Una nueva especie de Astragalus, endmica del Per, es descripta para Leguminosae, Galegeae. Astragalus sagasteguii, puede ser comparada con A. dillinghami Macbride, en Per, y A. diminutivus (Philippi) Gmez-Sosa en Bolivia y Argentina. Adems A. dielsii Macbride es transferida como una variedad de A. diminutivus. La distribucin geogrfica de Astragalus diminutivus var. dielsii se extiende desde Per a Bolivia y Argentina. Se incluyen descripciones, tabla de relaciones, ilustraciones, datos sobre hbitat y distribucin geogrfica. 
10.2307/3391864|The second continental species of Antidaphne north of Colombia, A. hondurense Kuijt (Eremolepidaceae), is described and illustrated. The species is monoecious and related to A. andina Kuijt and A. wrightii (Grisebach) Kuijt.
10.2307/3391779|A new combination in the Lowiaceae, Orchidantha chinensis T. L. Wu var. longisepala (D. Fang) T. L. Wu, as well as a new species, Alpinia jianganfeng T. L. Wu, and two new combinations, Amomum petaloideum (S. J. Tong) T. L. Wu and Roscoea cautleoides Gagnepain var. pubescens (Z. Y. Zhu) T. L. Wu, in the Zingiberaceae are proposed. Eight species names in the Lowiaceae, Musaceae, and Zingiberaceae are reduced to synonymy.
43289120|Petrocosmea melanophthalma Huan C. Wang, Z. R. He & Li Bing Zhang, an attractive new species (Gesneriaceae, Petrocosmea sect. Deianthera W. T. Wang) from Yunnan, China, is described and illustrated. It is similar to P. kerrii Craib in the zygomorphic calyx and brevirostrate anther. The new species differs from the latter by its peltate leaves and the blue corolla with two striking black spots on the tube, as well as the geniculate filaments of the stamens that thicken above the middle. Petrocosmea melanopthalma was found on basalt cliffs in evergreen broad-leaved forest on Mopan Shan.
3393278|The new Tibetan Draba mieheorum and Peruvian D. sagasteguii (Brassicaceae) are described and illustrated. The distinguishing characters separating each species from its nearest relatives are discussed.
10.2307/3392988|A new species of Dalechampia L. (Euphorbiaceae) with 5-foliolate leaves is described from southern Costa Rica, compared with its closest relative, and illustrated. /// Una nueva especie de Dalechampia L. (Euphorbiaceae) con hojas 5-folioladas, se describe de la regin sur de Costa Rica, se compara con otra especie cercana y se ilustra en este artculo.
40300934|The new combination Toxicoscordion venenosum (S. Watson) Rydberg var. gramineum (Rydberg) Brasher (Melanthiaceae) is made to accommodate this taxon in this genus at the rank of variety for the Southern Rocky Mountain Interactive Flora (SRMIF) project. Recent chromosome and DNA sequence data support segregation of Toxicoscordion Rydberg from Zigadenus Michaux s.l.
41811679|Lozania nunkui D. A. Neill & Asanza (Lacistemataceae), a new species from the Cordillera del Cndor region of southeastern Ecuador and adjacent northern Peru, is described and illustrated. It is distinguished from other species in the genus by the glabrous, entire, relatively thick and coriaceous, sclerophyllous leaves, and uniquely, by the five or occasionally six sepals, rather than four sepals as in all other known species. The new species is restricted to nutrient-poor, highly acidic sandstone plateaus within its range, and the thick sclerophyllous leaves appear to be an ecological adaptation to that edaphic condition. Se describe y se ilustra Lozania nunkui D. A. Neill & Asanza (Lacistemataceae), una nueva especie de la regin de la Cordillera del Cndor en el sureste del Ecuador y la zona colindante del norte de Per. Se distingue de las dems especies del gnero por las hojas glabras, enteras, relativamente gruesas, coriceas y esclerfilas, y por los cinco u ocasionalmente seis spalos, en vez de los cuatro spalos que presentan todas las dems especies. Dentro de su rango geogrfico, la especie nueva est restringida a las mesetas de areniscas, con suelos pobres en nutrientes y muy cidos, y las hojas gruesas y esclerfilas parecen ser una adaptacin ecolgica a esa condicin edfica.
20406030|The new genus Guianodendron Schtz Rodrigues & A. M. G. Azevedo (Leguminosae, Papilionoideae, Sophoreae) from Guyana and the Brazilian state of Amazonas is described and illustrated, and a new combination, Guianodendron praeclarum (Sandwith) Schtz Rodrigues & A. M. G. Azevedo, is made. The genus is characterized by a radial corolla with auriculate petals; five stamens; reduced ovule number; a straight hypanthium; indehiscent, flattened, and sutural-winged fruits; persistent bracts and bracteoles; leaflets with a papillate abaxial epidermis; and ovate to ovate-elliptic markedly striate stipules. /// O gnero novo Guianodendron Schtz Rodrigues & A. M. G. Azevedo (Leguminosae, Papilionoideae, Sophoreae), ocorrente na Guiana e no estado brasileiro do Amazonas,  descrito e ilustrado e uma nova combino  feita, Guianodendron praeclarum (Sandwith) Schtz Rodrigues & A. M. G. Azevedo. O gnero  caracterizado por apresentar corola radial com ptalas auriculadas, cinco estames, nmero reduzido de vulos, hipanto reto, frutos indeiscentes, achatados, com suturas aladas, brcteas e bractolas persistentes, fololos com epiderme abaxial papilosa e estpulas oval ou oval-eliptcas, marcadamente estriadas.
10.2307/3393376|We discuss the historical usage of the genus Chamaecrista (Fabaceae, Caesalpinioideae) in Africa, describe and illustrate the new species C. mwangokae from southern Tanzania, reduce C. hildebrandtii to taxonomic synonymy under C. zambesica, and provide a key to the East African species of Chamaecrista with stipitate petiolar glands.
20406250|Three creeping Ecuadorian species of Peperomia Ruiz & Pavn are presented as new to science. Both P. parcipeltata G. Mathieu and P. sagittata G. Mathieu occur in northern Ecuador, while P. gracilispica G. Mathieu occurs in central Ecuador. The three species are considered as belonging to section Leptorhynchum Dahlstedt.
10.2307/3391979|Descriptions are given of two new taxa, Quararibea yunckeri subsp. sessiliflora, and Q. yunckeri subsp. veracruzana, with summaries of their distributions.
10.2307/3393370|Felicia fischeri from Tanzania has been treated as a probable synonym of F. welwitschii for the last 50 years; the syntypes had been lost. Recent collections from northern Tanzania show that it is a species in its own right.
20406191|A new Hawaiian species of the Pacific genus Cyrtandra J. R. Forster & G. Forster, C. wagneri Lorence & Perlman, is described from the island of Hawai'i. It is unique in its combination of opposite leaves, cauligerous 12- to 25-flowered cymose inflorescences, deeply divided calyx that is actinomorphic, symmetrical in bud, and persistent in fruit, and calyx lobes that are lanceolate to linear-oblong, green, and internally puberulent distally. Due to its restricted distribution, small population size, and vulnerability to threats from feral animals, weeds, and stochastic events, it is considered to be critically endangered (CR) based on IUCN Red List criteria.
10.2307/3393272| Originally described by Fe in 1857, the villose cliff brake was not validly published for another 136 years. In 1993, this member of the Pteridaceae (sensu Tryon & Tryon) was named Pellaea ternifolia subsp. villosa Windham, acknowledging its overall similarity to the ternate cliff brake. Although formally including it within P. ternifolia (Cavanilles) Link, Windham suggested that the villose cliff brake was a probable allotetraploid produced by hybridization between typical P. ternifolia and some other (then unidentified) taxon. Recent work by Mendoza et al. has identified a new species, P. ribae Mendoza & Windham, that appears to be the "missing parent." Considering the evidence that the villose cliff brake is a reproductively competent taxon that originated as a hybrid between P. ternifolia subsp. ternifolia and P. ribae, we now feel that it should be recognized as a distinct species. Herein, we propose a new combination, Pellaea villosa (Windham) Windham & Yatskievych, for the villose cliff brake. We also report a northern range extension to Arizona, the second record for the area covered by the Flora of North America. 
10.2307/3392068|A new species of Mentzelia sect. Bartonia (Loasaceae), M. collomiae, is described from central Coconino County, Arizona, U.S.A. It is an edaphic endemic species restricted to cinder areas of the San Francisco Volcanic Field and is distinguished from other species in the section by seed surface features and by a combination of gross morphology, chromosome number, and habitat.
10.2307/3393214|Anthurium faustomirandae sp. nov. is described and illustrated from Chiapas, Mexico. It is similar to A. titanium Standley & Steyermark but differs from that species in having persistent intact cataphylls, thicker pruinose leaf blades with an acute rather than acuminate apex, and a shorter, stouter inflorescence with a much broader spathe and more stipitate spadix. /// Anthurium faustomirandae sp. nov. de Chiapas es descrita e ilustrada. Presenta afinidad con A. titanium Standley & Steyermark de Chiapas, pero difiere de esta especie en la catafila intacta persistente, lamina pruinosa con apice acuminado, inflorescencia con una espata mucha mas ancha y espadice ms estipitado.
23018448|From eastern North America, the glandular pubescent variety of Osmunda cinnamomea L. var. glandulosa Waters (Osmundaceae) is transferred as Osmundastrum cinnamomeum (L.) C. Presl var. glandulosum (Waters) McAvoy.
20406066|Astragalus asotinensis Bjrk & Fishbein (Fabaceae) is newly described from a single population on limestone of the Limekiln Formation at the mouth of Hells Canyon in Washington and Idaho in the United States. This population of several thousand plants has yet to be found on any of the non-calcareous substrates in the vicinity. Its affinities appear closest to Astragalus sect. Podosclerocarpi A. Gray, which hitherto encompassed three species of the Columbia Basin of British Columbia, Oregon, and Washington, in northwestern North America. Astragalus asotinensis represents a disjunct element of section Podosclerocarpi, the nearest population of which, in the form of A. sclerocarpus A. Gray, occurs 150 km northwest. With species of section Podosclerocarpi, A. asotinensis shares a strongly cauline habit, creamy white petals, non-gibbous calyx base, and stipitate, curved fruits. It is unique within section Podosclerocarpi in having sparse pubescence, a much longer ratio of peduncle-to-raceme length (4:1), and an intermediate leaflet length-width ratio (5:1).
27765233|A lectotype is designated for Actinidia latifolia (Gardner & Champ.) Merr. var. deliciosa A. Chev. (Actinidiaceae), selecting the second plate from the Chevalier protologue. Actinidia latifolia var. deliciosa is the basionym for the well-known kiwifruit A. deliciosa (A. Chev.) C. F. Liang & A. R. Ferguson.
20406309|Plagiothecium shevockii S. He (Plagiotheciaceae) is described and illustrated as a new moss species from Taiwan. It resembles P. paleaceum (Mitten) A. Jaeger in having similar orbicular leaves, but differs by its much stronger double costae, and its slenderly acute and denticulate leaf apices that have a group of differentiated, hyaline, thin-walled cells often bearing rhizoids.
20406026|Conyza sumatrensis is recognized as distinct from C. bonariensis and C. canadensis. Conyza albida and C. floribunda are treated as synonyms of C. sumatrensis. Conyza sumatrensis includes two varieties, and the new combination C. sumatrensis var. leiotheca is made for the nontypical variety, which is restricted to the Americas. Conyza sumatrensis var. sumatrensis is newly reported and documented in the United States; it also is found widely elsewhere in the Americas and is the sole variety occurring in the Old World.
10.2307/3393019|Campylandra Baker was published in 1875. Subsequently, various authors have either united it with Tupistra Ker Gawler (sometimes recognizing it as a subgenus or section of Tupistra) or maintained it as a separate genus. The present authors regard Campylandra as a separate genus on account of its having filaments only proximally (vs. almost wholly in Tupistra) adnate to the perianth tube, anthers as high as or higher (vs. lower) than the stigma, a shorter style, and a 3-lobed (vs. peltate to mushroom-shaped) stigma; this separation is confirmed by molecular phylogenies. In preparation for the accounts of genera in the Convallariaceae for Flora of China, Volume 24, it is therefore necessary to transfer into Campylandra 12 species hitherto treated under Tupistra, namely: T. annulata H. Li & J. L. Huang, T. chinensis Baker, T. delavayi Franchet, T. emeiensis Z. Y. Zhu, T. ensifolia F. T. Wang & Tang, T. fimbriata Handel-Mazzetti, T. jinshanensis Z. L. Yang & X. G. Luo, T. liangshanensis Z. Y. Zhu, T. lichuanensis Y. K. Yang, J. K. Wu & D. T. Peng, T. longipedunculata F. T. Wang & S. Yun Liang, T. verruculosa Q. H. Chen, and T. yunnanensis F. T. Wang & S. Yun Liang. It is also necessary to transfer two species originally described under a related genus, Rohdea Roth, but later transferred to Tupistra: T. tui (F. T. Wang & Tang) F. T. Wang & S. Yun Liang (R. tui F. T. Wang & Tang) and T. urotepala (Handel-Mazzetti) F. T. Wang & Tang (R. urotepala Handel-Mazzetti). In addition to these transfers, Campylandra ensifolia is lectotypified.
40300876|Two new species of Pentagonia Bentham (Rubiaceae, Hippotideae) are described and illustrated. Pentagonia tapacula Comejo is from the pluvial forests of Bajo Calima, Valle del Cauca Department, southwestern Colombia. This new species belongs to a species group of plants with entire leaves that have a tapering, subsessile base, and with a 5-lobed calyx, but differs mainly by its thicker coriaceous leaf blades, obovate stipules, and inflorescences with remarkably elongated and thick peduncles. The second new species is P. clementinensis Cornejo from the wet forests of western Ecuador. This is segregated from P. involucrata C. M. Taylor, which differs sharply by its leaf blades, floral bracts, fruits, and calyces /// Se describen e ilustran dos nuevas especies de Pentagonia Bentham (Rubiaceae, Hippotideae). Pentagonia tapacula Cornejo es de los bosques pluviales del Bajo Calima, Departamento del Valle de Cauca, en el suroccidente Colombiano. Esta nueva especie pertenece al grupo de las Pentagonia de hojas enteras, de base gradualmente angosta, subssil, con cliz 5-lobado, de las que principalmente se diferencia por presentar hojas con gruesas lminas coriceas, estpulas obovadas, e inflorescencias con pednculos distintivamente ms gruesos y largos. La segunda nueva especie es P. clementinensis Cornejo de los bosques muy hmedos de la regin occidental de Ecuador. Esta es segregada de P. involucrata C. M. Taylor, de la que difiere notoriamente en cuanto a sus hojas, brcteas florales, calices y frutos.
10.2307/3393035|Opuntia pachyrrhiza, a new species of Cactaceae from the southeastern portion of the Chihuahuan Desert, Mexico, is described, illustrated, and mapped. The species is easily distinguished from other Mexican Opuntia by its relatively short stature, its long, massive rhizome, and by the large, usually poorly branched cladodes. It appears to be restricted to the summits of La Trinidad and El Azul mountain ranges, in northern San Luis Potos, Mexico. /// Se describe, ilustra y mapea a Opuntia pachyrrhiza, una nueva especie de Cactaceae del sureste de la regin del Desierto Chihuahuense, Mxico. La especie se distingue fcilmente de otros miembros mexicanos del gnero por su baja estatura, por su rizoma largo y masivo, y por sus cladodios grandes y pobremente ramificados. Su distribucin se restringe aparentemente a las cimas de las Sierras de La Trinidad y El Azul, al norte de San Luis Potos, Mxico.
10.2307/3391646|Four new species and one new subspecies of Commelina are described from the flora of Tropical East Africa (Kenya, Uganda, and Tanzania). Commelina melanorrhiza Faden, C. nairobiensis Faden, and C. albiflora Faden are endemic to Kenya. Commelina aurantiiflora Faden & Raynsford occurs in Tanzania and Zambia. Commelina foliacea Chiovenda subsp. amplexicaulis Faden ranges from Uganda and Kenya to Malawi and Zambia. Chromosome numbers are provided for all of these taxa, three for the first time.
20406029|Eight new species of Mandevilla Lindley are described and illustrated. The new species, six of them rare and endemic, occur in eastern Brazil. Three of the new species (M. fistulosa, M. grazielae, and M. harleyi) are shrubs growing on the upper slopes of granitic inselbergs in Minas Gerais and Esprito Santo in southeastern Brazil. Two species, M. semirii and M. rubra, are woody lianas growing on rock outcrops of quartzite in campo rupestre vegetation of Minas Gerais. Mandevilla hatschbachii, a distinctive shrub known only from three collections, occurs in the campo rupestre formations in eastern Brazil in Bahia. Mandevilla guanabarica, a suffrutescent liana generally misidentified as M. funiformis (Vellozo) K. Schumman, is found at the borders of the Atlantic rainforest in Esprito Santo and Rio de Janeiro. Mandevilla dardanoi is a small shrub endemic to Macio da Borborema, in northeastern Brazil. /// Oito novas espcies de Mandevilla so aqui descritas e ilustradas. Estas espcies, seis das quais raras e endmicas, ocorrem no leste do Brasil. Trs espcies (M. fistulosa, M. grazielae e M. harleyi) so arbustos que ocorrem em inselbergs granticos em Minas Gerais e Esprito Santo, no sudeste brasileiro. Mandevilla semirii e M. rubra so lianas lenhosas que ocorrem em afloramentos quartzticos nos campos rupestres de Minas Gerais. Mandevilla hatschbachii, uma espcie arbustiva bastante peculiar e conhecida por apenas trs colees, ocorre nas formaes decampo rupestre da Bahia. Mandevilla guanabarica, uma espcie de liana muitas vezes identificada erroneamente como M. funiformis (Vellozo) K. Schumman, ocorre nas bordas da Mata Atlntica do Esprito Santo e Rio de Janeiro. Mandevilla dardanoi  uma espcie arbustiva endmica do Macio da Borborema, no nordeste do Brasil.
3393354| Lupinus reitzii, a new species from southern Brazil, is described and illustrated. The new species belongs to the Lupinus lanatus complex and is closely related to L. lanatus and L. magnistipulatus, from which it is set apart principally by the size and shape of the stipules and by the shape and pubescence of the leaflets. ///  descrita e ilustrada Lupinus reitzii, uma nova espcie do Sul do Brasil. Lupinus reitzii  relacionada com os txons do complexo Lupinus lanatus, especialmente L. lanatus e L. magnistipulatus, diferenciando-se destas principalmente pelo tamanho e forma das estpulas, forma e pilosidade dos fololos. 
20406168|Forty-four new species of Astragalus L. (Leguminosae) are described here. They belong to the following sections: section Brachycarpus Borissova: A. athranthus Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. brachysemia Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. despectus Podlech & L. R. Xu; section Caprini DC.: A. fukangensis Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. luculentus Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. psilosepalus Podlech & L. R. Xu; section Chlorostachys Bunge: A. brachytrichus Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. chengkangensis Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. zadaensis Podlech & L. R. Xu; section Cysticalyx Bunge: A. gongliuensis Podlech & L. R. Xu; section Dissitiflori DC.: A. laetabilis Podlech & L. R. Xu; section Erioceras Bunge: A. yangchangii Podlech & L. R. Xu; section Helmia Bunge: A. hoshanbaoensis Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. persimilis Podlech & L. R. Xu; section Hypsophilus Bunge: A. yechengensis Podlech & L. R. Xu; section Komaroviella Gontscharow: A. leptocladus Podlech & L. R. Xu; section Laguropsis Bunge: A. chamaephyton Podlech & L. R. Xu; section Ornithopodium Bunge: A. huochengensis Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. maiusculus Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. sadiensis Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. supralaevis Podlech & L. R. Xu; section Oroboidei A. Gray: A. gongshanensis Podlech & L. R. Xu; section Poliothrix Bunge: A. baxoiensis Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. jiazaensis Podlech & L. R. Xu; section Trachycercis: A. acceptus Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. brevivexillatus Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. filidens Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. glabritubus Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. levidensis Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. lustricola Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. lychnobius Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. macriculus Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. ningxiaensis Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. occultus Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. perbrevis Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. porphyreus Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. secretus Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. sinkiangensis Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. tesquorum Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. transecticola Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. trijugus Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. vescus Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. visibilis Podlech & L. R. Xu; section Uliginosi A. Gray: A. qitaiensis Podlech & L. R. Xu. Furthermore, two taxa are raised in rank.
10.2307/3391870|Two new species of Annonaceae, Sapranthus viridiflorus G. E. Schatz and Unonopsis stevensii G. E. Schatz, are described from Mesoamerica. Color photographs of the new species can be accessed over the World Wide Web by searching the name in W<sup>3TROPICOS</sup> at http://www.mobot.org/Pick/Search/pick.html. /// Se decriben dos especies nuevas de Annonaceae, Sapranthus viridiflorus G. E. Schatz y Unonopsis stevensii G. E. Schatz, de Mesoamerica. Fotografias a color de las especies nuevas son accesibles buscando el nombre en las paginas de Internet de W<sup>3TROPICOS</sup> en la siguiente direccion: http://www.mobot.org/Pick/Search/pick.html.
10.2307/3391599|The following three species described as new in Masdevallia represent three sections of subgenus Masdevallia. Masdevallia goliath is a successively flowered, round-stemmed species of section Coriaceae subsection Durae. Masdevallia mascarata is a member of section Polyanthes subsection Alaticaules, distinguished by triquetrous peduncles. Masdevallia ricii is a member of subsection Saltatrices, noted for the long sepaline tubes, of section Masdevallia.
10.2307/3391949|New combinations in Arabidopsis are proposed. Species previously placed in Cardaminopsis are here transferred to Arabidopsis and taxa previously recognized in Arabidopsis, other than A. thaliana and A. suecica, are excluded from the genus. Distributions and a key to the nine species and five subspecies are presented.
20406288|A new species of Besleria L. (Gesneriaceae) is described and illustrated from Peru. This species is distinguished by having inflorescences composed of few (1 to 5) flowers, lanceolate calyx lobes with the apex acute, and the corolla strongly ventricose. /// Una nueva especie de Besleria L. (Gesneriaceae) del Per es descrita e ilustrada. Esta especie se caracteriza por sus inflorescencias compuestas de pocas flores (1 a 5), lbulos del cliz lanceolados de pice agudo y la corola fuertemente ventricosa.
3393455|Diagnoses, descriptions, and illustrations are presented for four new taxa of Miconia (M. commutata from Costa Rica and Panama, M. danielii and M. tonduzii var. hirtella from Costa Rica, and M. dissita from Panama). Three new combinations (Miconia chinantlana (Naudin) Almeda for Staphidium chinantlanum Naudin; Miconia lundellii (Wurdack) Almeda for Clidemia lundellii Wurdack; and Tibouchina tortuosa (Bonpland) Almeda for Rhexia tortuosa Bonpland) are proposed. Miconia tonduzii Cogniaux is neotypified and its infraspecific taxonomy is revised to include three varieties. Miconia sparrei Wurdack, which was described from Amazonian Ecuador and heretofore known only from the holotype, is redescribed, illustrated, and reported from the Caribbean lowlands of Costa Rica and from Peru. Citations of representative specimens, distributional and phenological notes, and comparisons with probable relatives are provided for each taxon.
23018487|Memecylon pendulum Chih C. Wang, Y. H. Tseng, Y. T. Chen & Kun C. Chang, a new species of Melastomataceae from Taiwan, is described and illustrated. This new species is allied to M. lanceolatum Blanco but is clearly distinguished by its pendulous branchlets, smaller leaves to 7 cm long, shallowly 4-lobed calyx, obtuse or rounded apices of flower buds, and yellowish green fruit at maturity.
3393545|A new species of fern, Phegopteris koreana (Thelypteridaceae), was collected from southern Korea and is described here. Phegopteris koreana is most similar to P. decursive-pinnata morphologically; however, the new species consistently shows discontinuous morphological gaps from the latter in the shape of the fronds, pinnae, and ultimate segments, venation pattern in ultimate segments, tufted trichomes in the sori, and spore wall sculpturing.
10.2307/3391881|Dubautia syndetica G. Carr & Lorence from the Hawaiian Island of Kaua'i is described and illustrated. The new species is distinguished from congeners on the basis of its combination of uniseriate, somewhat coalescent receptacular bracts, coarsely glandular peduncles, glandular corolla tubes, and conspicuously strigose achenes. These and other features suggest a possible hybrid origin from D. laxa Hooker & Arnott subsp. hirsuta (Hillebrand) G. Carr and D. raillardioides Hillebrand.
10.2307/3391922|Two new species of Selaginella from Madagascar, S. bemarahensis and S. marinii, are described and illustrated, as are a new subspecies of S. nivea Alston and a new form of S. fissidentoides (Hooker & Greville) Spring var. fissidentoides. The Malagasy species S. fissidentoides is segregated into two varieties, one of which has been previously known as S. amphirrhizos A. Braun ex Hieronymus. The taxonomic position and closest relationships of each taxon are briefly discussed.
10.2307/3391462|The new genus Dendrothrix is proposed. Two of its species are new to science, the third one was originally allied to Sapium. Keys for distinguishing related genera using flowers, fruits, and leaves are provided, as is a key to the species of Dendrothrix.
10.2307/3391909|Two new combinations are provided for Chinese species of Poaceae: Kengyilia leiantha (Keng) L. B. Cai and Kengyilia kaschgarica (D. F. Cui) L. B. Cai.
10.2307/3392181|While revising the Melastomataceae for the Flora of Thailand, we discovered two new species of Sonerila, as well as the need for transferring two species of Tylanthera endemic to Thailand into Phyllagathis. Sonerila urceolata and S. loeiensis are endemic to the southeast and the northeast of Thailand, respectively. The first is allied to the widespread S. erecta Jack, from which it differs mainly in the strongly urceolate capsule and the sessile fruit placenta; the second is distinguished from other acaulescent species of Sonerila by its extremely long-petiolate large leaves and long-pedunculate inflorescence. The new combinations, Phyllagathis tuberosa (Hansen) Cellinese & Renner and P. siamensis Cellinese & Renner nom. nov., are made because both taxa lie inside the morphologic and phylogenetic bounds of Phyllagathis.
40856298|Fagopyrum pugense T. Yu (Polygonaceae, Polygonoideae), known only from Luojishan, Puge County, Sichuan Province, China, is described and illustrated. It is closely related to F. gracilipes (Hemsl.) Dammer ex Diels, but differs in the plants having thicker stems and branches with densely erectvillose pubescence, numerous nodes and short internodes, ovate to cordate leaves that are minutely rugose with small pustules, and small achenes. The karyotype studies were also conducted, and the results are presented.
10.2307/3393212|Lectotypes for 11 species of Tococa are here designated, either because the holotypes were lost during the fire at Berlin and there are known extant isotypes, or because several syntypes were cited in the original descriptions. Three neotypes are here designated, since the holotypes are lost or destroyed and no isotypes have been located to date.
40300902|Three new species of Indigofera L. (Leguminosae) are described from Sichuan and Yunnan provinces in China. Indigofera shipingensis X. F. Gao, known only from a single specimen collected in 1961 from Shiping County, Yunnan, has unifoliolate leaves and is most similar to I. caloneura Kurz from southern Yunnan and Southeast Asia. Indigofera megaphylla X. F. Gao, described from Yuanjiang County and also endemic to neighboring Shiping County in southern Yunnan, resembles I. dichroa Craib and I. balfouriana Craib from western to northern Yunnan, Sichuan, and southern Xizang, although these two species have much smaller leaflets. Indigofera pseudoheterantha X. F. Gao & Schrire is described from Sichuan County and occurs from the Daocheng to Miyi counties in southwestern Sichuan to the Zhongdian region of northwestern Yunnan, and appears closely related to I. heterantha Wallich ex Brandis from northwestern Yunnan to southern Xizang, westward to the Himalayas.
20406033|The new combination Arnica lanceolata subsp. prima (Maguire) Strother & S. J. Wolf is proposed as the correct name for Arnica lanceolata subsp. amplexicaulis (Nuttall) Gruezo.
10.2307/3391430|Four new species of Hedyosmum, all belonging to subgenus Tafalla sect. Microcarpa, are herein proposed. Hedyosmum uniflorum occurs in mid-elevation montane regions in central Ecuador and differs from its closest relative, H. bonplandianum, by its basally rounded, sometimes oblique leaves, flocculose midveins, slightly fimbriate stipular appendages, and long, linear, dissected stigmas. Hedyosmum narinoense, which inhabits the western slopes of the western cordillera in southern Colombia, also has single-flowered cymules but is unique among the solitary-flowered cymule species by having shorter pistillate inflorescences and scabrous, scurfy leaf sheaths. The remaining two new species, H. tepuiense and H. intermedium, are found in the Venezuelan Guayana. Hedyosmum tepuiense is recognized as distinct from the broadly ranging H. racemosum by virtue of its long stipular appendages, verrucose leaf sheaths, floccose midveins, and longer inflorescences. Morphologically intermediate between H. gentryi and H. neblinae, Hedyosmum intermedium is distinguished by its glabrous, elliptic leaves and 2-3-flowered purple-fruited cymules.
20406273|A new species, Piper giordanoi E. F. Guimares & D. Monteiro, from Rio de Janeiro state, southeastern Brazil, is described and illustrated. The taxon is related to P. weddellii C. DC. and P. sampaioi Yuncker. The new species differs in its shrubby habit and longer petioles. The lack of submarginal trichomes on the abaxial leaf surface distinguishes P. giordanoi from P. sampaioi. /// Piper giordanoi E. F. Guimares & D. Monteiro, uma nova espcie do estado do Rio de Janeiro, sudeste do Brasil,  descrita e ilustrada. O txon est relacionado a P. weddellii C. DC. e P. sampaioi Yuncker. A nova espcie difere de ambos, por ser um arbusto com pecolos mais longos. A ausncia de tricomas submarginais na face abaxial da superfcie foliar distingue P. giordanoi de P. sampaioi.
10.2307/3391988|A new species of Passiflora, P. telesiphe, is described in subgenus Decaloba. This species was discovered as a result of observations on the natural history and foodplants of a butterfly (Heliconius telesiphe-Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae: Heliconiiti), whose young stages were previously unknown. The new species and its herbivore are illustrated. The relationships of P. telesiphe to other similar Ecuadorean species of Passiflora are briefly discussed.
10.2307/3391446|The taxa Gentiana densiflora T. N. Ho, G. kunmingensis S. W. Liu, G. myrioclada var. wuxiensis T. N. Ho & S. W. Liu, G. xingrenensis T. N. Ho, and Swertia luquanensis S. W. Liu are described as new. The new combinations G. cephalantha Franchet ex Forbes & Hemsley var. vaniotii (Lveill) T. N. Ho, G. davidii Franchet var. fukienensis (Ling) T. N. Ho, G. lawrencei Burkill var. farreri (I. B. Balfour) T. N. Ho, G. ninglangensis T. N. Ho var. glabrescens (Harry Smith) T. N. Ho, G. prostrata Haenke var. ludlowii (Marquand) T. N. Ho, G. pulvinarum W. W. Smith subsp. subtilis (Harry Smith) T. N. Ho, G. stipitata Edgeworth subsp. tizuensis (Franchet) T. N. Ho, G. suborbisepala Marquand var. kialensis (Marquand) T. N. Ho, G. trichotoma Kusnezow var. chingii (Marquand) T. N. Ho, G. wardii W. W. Smith var. emergens (Marquand) T. N. Ho, and Swertia wardii Marquand var. rigida (T. N. Ho & S. W. Liu) T. N. Ho are proposed.
3393495|The following changes are made in Poaceae, necessary for the upcoming Flora of China. Kengia chinensis is lectotypified on a specimen of K. hackelii, and hence becomes a synonym of the latter. Kengia gracilis is synonymized under K. mucronata. Isachne clarkei is lectotypified. Isachne beneckei (also lectotypified) and I. tenuis are placed as synonyms of I. clarkei. Isachne albens var. hirsuta is lectotypified and placed as a synonym under I. sylvestris. Isachne semitalis is lectotypified and placed in synonymy of I. schmidtii. The distinctions between the closely related species I. kunthiana, I. schmidtii, and I. repens are discussed. The new species Arundinella suniana, from Yunnan province and related to A. setosa, is described. Arundinella setosa var. esetosa is validated. The name Arundinella hupeiensis is rejected as a homonym due to its similarity to the name A. hubeiensis. Eccoilopus bambusoides is transferred to Spodiopogon, necessary with the inclusion of Eccoilopus within Spodiopogon. The new species Imperata flavida is described from Hainan, distinguished from I. cylindrica mainly by its much shorter spikelet hairs. Erianthus griffithii var. trichophyllus is transferred to Saccharum arundinaceum as S. arundinaceum var. trichophyllum, as Erianthus is included within Saccharum. Polytrias amaura var. nana is transferred to P. indica, the correct name for P. amaura. Coelorachis striata var. pubescens is transferred to Mnesithea, a necessary transfer when Coelorachis is regarded as a synonym of Mnesithea. Discussion of the changes is provided throughout.
40856289|TWO new species of Cryptocarya R. Br., C. panamensis P. L. R. Moraes & van der Werff, from Coln, Panama, and yasuniensis P. L. R. Moraes & van der Werff, from Napo, Ecuador, are described and illustrated. Additionally, the occurrence of guianensis Meisn. in Ecuador is here reported for the first time.
10.2307/3391833|New combinations in the genus Krascheninnikovia are proposed: K. arborescens (Losina-Losinskaja) Mosyakin, K. compacta (Losina-Losinskaja) Grubov var. longipilosa (Tsien Cho-po & Ma Cheng-gung) Mosyakin, and Krascheninnikovia sect. Caudatae (Aellen) Mosyakin.
10.2307/3392220|Central and South American Pollalesta is reduced to synonymy of West Indian Piptocoma. Fourteen new species combinations and three new sectional combinations are made, and Piptocoma acevedoi from Puerto Rico is described as new, raising the number of species in Piptocoma from 3 to 18. A key to the four sections of Piptocoma is also provided.
10.2307/3391386|A new genus and species of trees from Costa Rica and northern South America, Ruptiliocarpon caracolito, is described and compared to the African Lepidobotrys. It is distinguished from Lepidobotrys primarily by its much shorter filaments, basifixed rather than versatile anthers, its lack of styles, its two-rather than three-locular ovary, and by its irregularly dehiscent fruits with a woody exocarp and cartilagineous endocarp. In wood anatomy, apart from the presence of vestured pits in Ruptiliocarpon, the two genera are remarkably similar. They match in important floral and fruit characteristics (dioecious; 5 + 5 stamens of unequal length with filaments fused at base; two apical, collateral ovules per locule; one-seeded fruit; black seed with a large red aril and no endosperm), and both have unifoliolate leaves with very fugaceous stipules and stipels, and leaf-opposed inflorescences. The familial placement of Lepidobotrys has been controversial: the genus was placed first in the Linaceae by Engler, then in the Oxalidaceae by Hallier, then in its own family (between Linaceae and Erythroxylaceae) by Lonard, and then again in the Oxalidaceae by Cronquist. Reviewing evidence, old and new, we maintain Ruptiliocarpon and Lepidobotrys (only) in the Lepidobotryaceae and suggest that they relate more to Sapindales or possibly Euphorbiaceae than to Oxalidaceae.
23259347|The new genus Autana C. T. Philbrick and species A. andersonii C. T. Philbrick are illustrated and described. The new species is documented from four rivers that drain into the Orinoco River, Amazonas, Venezuela. Autana is distinguished by three characters that do not occur in other Neotropical Podostemaceae. The upper surface of the flattened stem has an anastomosing pattern that is derived from a continuation of leaf margins. When the capsule is mature, the pedicel apex (and receptacle) is swollen and hollow. After anthesis, locations where the deciduous stamens attached become darkened and shaped like an inverted teardrop. Phylogenetic analyses indicate A. andersonii is sister to a clade containing species of Castelnavia Tul. & Wedd., Oserya Tul. & Wedd., Noveloa C. T. Philbrick, and Rhyncholacis Tul., as well as upright stemmed species of Apinagia Tul., and Central American and Mexican species of Marathrum Bonpl. Se ilustran y describen un gnero Autana C. T. Philbrick y una especie A. andersonii C. T. Philbrick nuevos. La especie nueva se registra de cuatro ros que desembocan en el ro Orinoco, Amazonas, Venezuela. Autana se distingue de otras Podostemaceae por tres caracteres que no se encuentran en ninguna de las otras especies de Podostemaceae neotropicales. La superficie superior del tallo aplanado tiene una figura anostomosada que surge de una continuidad de los mrgenes de la hoja. Cuando la cpsula se madura, el pice del pedicelo (y receptculo) se hincha y se torna hueco. Los sitios donde los estambres caedizos estaban unidos, se oscurecen y toman la forma de una lgrima invertida. Los anlisis filogenticos indican que A. andersonii es hermana de un clado que contiene especies de Castelnavia Tul. & Wedd., Oserya Tul. & Wedd., Noveloa C. T. Philbrick y Rhyncholacis Tul., as como de especies con tallos erguidos de Apinagia Tul. y de especies centroamericanas y mexicanas de Marathrum Bonpl.
10.2307/3393183|Tournefortia vasquezii J. S. Miller is described from Cajamarca, Peru. It is a distinctive species with setaceous sepals, 4-6 mm long, and its unusual bullate leaves are unique in the genus. While its relationships within the genus are not clear, it shares its shrubby growth form, setaceous sepals, ovate corolla lobes, and elongate styles with Tournefortia spicata J. S. Miller and T. restrepoae J. S. Miller, other understory species of mid-elevation Andean forests.
40300917|The new species Tibouchina melanocalyx R. Romero, P. J. F. Guimaraes & Leoni (Melastomataceae) presents a glabrous hypanthium and calyx lobes, is black in dried material, has glabrous filaments and style, and has an ovary with a furrowed apex with five oblong appendages. These characteristics of the hypanthium and ovary are unique within the genus Tibouchina Aublet. This species occurs in highland, campos de altitude vegetation from the National Park of Caparao and State Park of Serra do Brigadeiro, in Minas Gerais, Brazil. /// A espcie indita Tibouchina melanocalyx R. Romero, P. J. F. Guimares & Leoni (Melastomataceae) apresenta hipanto e lacmas do calice glabras e nigrescentes no material herborizado, filetes e estilete glabros e ovrio com pice fendido com cinco apndices oblongos. As caractersticas do hipanto e do ovrio so nicas para o gnero Tibouchina Aublet. Esta espcie ocorre em campos de altitude dos Parque Nacional do Capara e Parque Estadual da Serra do Brigadeiro, no estado de Minas Gerais, Brazil.
10.2307/3391899|The following new names are proposed for Leptochloa P. Beauvois s.l. (including Diplachne P. Beauvois), based on recent revisionary and cladistic studies: Leptochloa caudata, L. decipiens subsp. asthenes, L. decipiens subsp. peacockii, L. eleusine, L. fusca subsp. muelleri, L. fusca subsp. fascicularis, L. fusca subsp. uninervia, L. gigantea, and L. panicea subsp. brachiata.
10.2307/3391459|Five new species, Chusquea falcata, C subulata, C. barbata, C. spathacea, and C. pulchella, are described and illustrated. One new combination, Chusquea attenuata (Doell in Martius) L. G. Clark, is proposed for a Brazilian species originally described as an Arundinaria, based on a vegetative specimen.
40856324|Delimitation of genera in the Neotropical tribe Guettardeae (Rubiaceae) has varied; here a key outlines the current taxonomy in South America and southern Central America. Three new species of Chomelia Jacq. are described and illustrated: the unarmed species C. chiquitensis M. Taylor of deciduous vegetation in eastern Bolivia differs from and shorter corollas; the spiny species costaricensis M. Taylor of humid vegetation in northern Costa Rica differs from C. microloba Donn. Sm. in its longer corolla and lack of domatia on the leaves; and the unarmed species torrara M. Taylor of wet montane vegetation in northwestern Colombia is distinguished by its short inflorescences with redviolet corollas and its leaves with the higher-order venation not visible. A second species of Neoblakea Standl., N. ecuadorensis Taylor of seasonal vegetation in western Ecuador, differs from N.venezuelensis Standl. in its leaves broadly obtuse to rounded at the base and its larger fruits. A second species of Pittoniotis Griseb., P. rotata Taylor, is described based on a specimen from Ecuador and is also known from Peru; it differs from P. trichantha Griseb. of seasonal lowland vegetation in the Caribbean basin in its corollas with shorter tubes, its larger fruits, and its habitat in wet premontane vegetation. The genus Stenostomum F. Gaertn. has been recently circumscribed to include several Neotropical species, and three additional species are here transferred to it: Chione darienensis Dwyer, as 5.darienense (Dwyer) CM. Taylor; Guettarda acreana K. Krause, as S. acreanum (K. Krause) CM. Taylor; and G. turrialbana N. Zamora & Po veda, as S.turrialbanum (N. Zamora & Poveda) M. Taylor.Conservation status assessments are presented for all of these species except G. acreanum, which is widespread and in need of further study. La delimitacin de los gneros de la tribu neotropical Guettardeae (Rubiaceae) ha variado; aqu se presenta una clave que delinea la actual taxonoma sericea Mll. Arg. of Baha, Brazil, en Amrica del Sur y el sur de Amrica Central. Se describen e ilustran tres nuevas especies de Chomelia Jacq.: la especie inerme chiquitensis CM. Taylor de vegetacin caducifolia del este de Bolivia difiere de C. sericea Mll. Arg. de Baha, Brasil, por sus brcteas lineares y corolas ms cortas; la especie espinosa costaricensis C M . Taylor de vegetacin hmeda del norte de Costa Rica difiere de C.microloba Donn. Sm. por su corola ms larga y la ausencia de domacios en las hojas; y la especie inerme torrana CM. Taylor de vegetacin hmeda montana del noroeste de Colombia se distingue por sus inflorescencias cortas con corolas de un rojovioleta y sus hojas con la nervadura de orden mayor no visible. Una segunda especie de Neoblakea Standl., N. ecuadorensis CM. Taylor, de vegetacin estacional del oeste de Ecuador difiere de N. venezuelensis Standl. en sus hojas ampliamente obtusas a redondeadas en la base y los frutos ms grandes. Una segunda especie de Pittoniotis Griseb., P. rotata tambin es conocida de Per, y difiere de P.trichantha Griseb. de la vegetacin de tierras bajas estacional del Caribe por sus corolas con tubos ms cortos, sus frutos ms grandes y su habitat de vegetacin premontana hmeda. El gnero Stenostomum F. Gaertn. se ha circunscrito recientemente para incluir varias especies neotropicales, y aqu se transfieren tres especies adicionales: Chione darienensis Dwyer, como S. darienense (Dwyer) M.Taylor; Guettarda acreana Krause, como S. acreanum Krause) M. Taylor; y G. turrialbana N.Zamora & Poveda, como S. turrialbanum (N. Zamora & Poveda) C. M. Taylor. Se presentan evaluaciones del estado de conservacin para todas estas especies excepto G. acreanum, que est muy extendida y necesita de ms estudio.
20406172|Lectotypification for a legume fossil species, Wisteria fallax (Nathorst) Tanai & Onoe from the Neogene of Japan, is presented here. A figure previously designated as the lectotype for W. fallax by Tanai is not tenable because the ICBN (St. Louis Code, Art. 8.5 and 9.13) does not allow a figure to serve as the type for the name of a fossil taxon.
43288949|Two names proposed by H. S. Kiu, Croton dinghuensis (Euphorbiaceae) and Helicia yangchunensis (Proteaceae), were originally described from Guangdong, China, but were invalidly published because the author failed to specify the repository herbarium of the types. These names are validated by designating G. L Shi 2763 (IBSC) as the holotype of C. dinghuensis H. S. Kiu and Zhanjiang Expedition 03261 (IBSC) as the holotype of H. yangchunensis H. S. Kiu.
10.2307/3391968|Eltroplectris brachycentron Szlachetko from Bolivia is described and illustrated, and its taxonomic position is briefly discussed. An illustrated key to the Bolivian species of Eltroplectris is provided.
20406047|The genus Bolandia (Asteraceae, Senecioneae) comprises two known species, B. pedunculosa and B. argillacea, previously included in Cineraria. Distinguishing features of Bolandia include the fusiform shape of the cypselae and strong median rib on the glabrous inner surface of the ray and outer disc cypselae, solitary ecalyculate capitula on long peduncles, and a truncate style apex with a central tuft of sweeping hairs. Bolandia occurs in the mountains of the Western Cape in southern Africa, with a disjunct population of B. pedunculosa in the Witteberg of the Eastern Cape and the nearby Drakensberg mountains in Lesotho. Bolandia argillacea is endemic to the mountains near Worcester in the Western Cape. Two forms of B. pedunculosa are informally recognized, a tomentose and a glabrescent form, the latter including plants previously known as C. albomontana.
10.2307/3393149|Two new endemic species, P. cachimboense from Mato Grosso and P. goyasense from Distrito Federal and Gois, Brazil, are described, illustrated, and compared with putatively related species. Keys to the new species and related taxa of Paspalum subg. Ceresia are also presented.
10.2307/3393573|A new species of Melastomataceae from Bolivia is described, illustrated, and placed in a phenetic context within Miconia, a genus of 1000 species and about 2000 published names. Miconia quadrialata is readily distinguished from its congeners by two-colored leaves and sharply four-angular and winged branchlets. A search for quadrangular-branched miconias revealed that 12 of 15 such species (in four sections), including the new species, occur in cloud forest in the Andes, raising the question of the adaptive significance of quadrangular branchlets.
10.2307/3393018|During preparation of accounts for the genera in the Convallariaceae for the Flora of China, Volume 24, it was decided that Polygonatum ginfushanicum (F. T. Wang & Tang) F. T. Wang & Tang (Smilacina ginfushanica F. T. Wang & Tang) should be transferred to Heteropolygonatum, as H. ginfushanicum (F. T. Wang & Tang) M. N. Tamura, S. C. Chen & Turland.
10.2307/3391664|Roegneria tridentata is described and illustrated, and its karyotype is characterized.
10.2307/3391668|Merostachys burmannii, a new species from Brazil, is described and illustrated.
43289105|Four species of Anisotes Nees (Acanthaceae) are described from northern and west-central Madagascar: A. hygroscopicus T. F. Daniel, Letsara & Martn-Bravo, A. perplexus T. F. Daniel, Letsara & Martn-Bravo, A. subcoriaceus T. F. Daniel, Letsara & Martn-Bravo, and A. venosus T. F. Daniel, Letsara & Martin-Bravo. A key to the six species of the genus known from Madagascar, all of them endemic to the island, is provided. Morphological features previously unknown in the genus are noted for A. hygroscopicus and A. venosus (hygroscopic trichomes on seeds), A. subcoriaceus (2-colporate, pseudocolpate pollen lacking insulae), and A. perplexus (2-pororate pollen). None of these species can be treated with certainty in any of the currently recognized sections of Anisotes. Data pertinent to the conservation status of each species are provided.
10.2307/3393266|Two problematical species from the Himalaya that lie on the boundary between Agrostis and Deyeuxia are discussed. One is transferred to Deyeuxia as Deyeuxia petelotii with the new synonym D. continentalis. The name Deyeuxia abnormis J. D. Hooker is retained for the second species, which is confirmed as distinct from D. zenkeri. Two other species are transferred to Deyeuxia from Calamagrostis: Deyeuxia sichuanensis and Deyeuxia korotkyi.
20406310|Galactia watsoniana W. C. Holmes & Singhurst (Fabaceae, Papilionoideae), endemic to the southern part of the Balcones Escarpment of central Texas, is described as new. The new species is distinguished from G. volubilis (L.) Britton, its apparent nearest relative, by its solitary and larger flowers (17-22 mm vs. 6-12 mm), strigillose trichomes on plant surfaces, presence of a narrow white border on the leaflet margins, and ovate leaflets with reticulated abaxial surfaces.
10.2307/3391797|Four new species of Piper are described from China: P. dolichostachyum, P. tsengianum, P. wangii, and P. yui; one new combination is made: Piper boehmeriifolium var. glabricaule; a new name, Piper cathayanum, is proposed for a later homonym; the identities of Piper arboricola and P. philippinum are discussed; and new synonyms and lectotypes are proposed for various other species of Peperomia and Piper.
10.2307/3393249|Neomitranthes obtusa (Myrtaceae), a treelet from restinga forests in Esprito Santo, southeastern Brazil, is described, illustrated, and compared with the apparently related Neomitranthes glomerata, from which it is distinguished by its obtuse leaves, inconspicuous venation, fewer secondary veins, and smaller petioles. /// Neomitranthes obtusa (Myrtaceae), un arbolito de las restingas de Esprito Santo, en el sudeste de Brasil, es descrita, ilustrada y comparada con la especie aparentemente afin Neomitranthes glomerata, de la cual se distingue por las hojas obtusas, la venacin inconspicua, el nmero menor de nervios secundarios y los peciolos ms cortos.
3393301|Neolourya is included in Peliosanthes (Convallariaceae), as their difference is confined to the shape of the style and seems insufficient for generic delimitation. As a result, a new combination, P. weberi (L. Rodriguez) N. Tanaka, is proposed. The other two species of Neolourya, N. pierrei L. Rodriguez and N. thailandica K. Larsen, are reduced to synonymy of P. weberi, as no appreciable morphological difference is found among them. Peliosanthes weberi is characterized chiefly by its slender tortuous style and by the antisepalous anthers often more concealed than the antipetalous ones by the coroniform united filaments.
10.2307/3391505|Melpomene, a new genus of Grammitidaceae, is described, and combinations are made for the species known to belong to it. Melpomene can be distinguished from all other Grammitidaceae by its rhizome scales that are clathrate, basally cordate, and entire except at the apex where provided with one to ten minute papillae. The genus contains about 20 species and is primarily neotropical.
20406193|Se describe Dalea schiblii Medina & M. Sousa (Fabaceae, Amorpheae), una especie nueva, arbrea, del bosque de Pinus L.--Quercus L., en el estado de Oaxaca, Mxico. Se discuten y comparan sus caractersticas morfolgicas con las de otras especies mexicanas de Dalea Lucanus. Se proporciona una clave para las especies del subgnero Parosela (Cavanilles) Barneby seccin Parosela Barneby serie Lasiostomae (Rydberg) Barneby. /// Dalea schiblii Medina & M. Sousa (Fabaceae, Amorpheae), a new arborescent species from Pinus L.--Quercus L. forest in the state of Oaxaca, Mexico, is described and illustrated. Its morphological characteristics are discussed and compared to those of other Mexican species of Dalea Lucanus. A key for the species of subgenus Parosela (Cavanilles) Barneby sect. Parosela Barneby ser. Lasiostomae (Rydberg) Barneby is provided.
40300953|We describe and illustrate the new species Paepalanthus bonsai Trov & Sano (Eriocaulaceae, Paepalanthoideae) from the Espinhao Range in Minas Gerais, Brazil. This species is placed in Paepalanthus Martius subsect. Dichocladus Ruhland due to its dichotomously branched stem with rigid linear leaves. The new species is compared with the sympatric and morphologically similar species P. glaziovii Ruhland. /// Descrevemos e ilustramos a nova espcie Paepalanthus bonsai Trov & Sano (Eriocaulaceae, Paepalanthoideae) ocorrente na Cadeia do Espinhao, em Minas Gerais, Brasil. A espcie  posicionada em Paepalanthus Martius subsect. Dichocladus Ruhland por possuir caule dicotomicamente ramificado e folhas lineares rgidas. Comparamos esta nova espcie com a espcie simptrica e mais semelhante morfologicamente, P. glaziovii Ruhland.
10.2307/3391502|Gynoxys carpishensis, G. rimachiana, and Senecio tuestae are transferred to Aequatorium, Gynoxys regis is transferred to Paragynoxys, and Aequatorium cajamarcense, A. juninense, A. kingii, A. tovarii, Gynoxys chingualensis, G. jaramilloi, and G. hutchisonii are described as new.
20406241|Se describe e ilustra Salvia yukoyukparum Fernndez Alonso (Labiatae), una nueva especie endmica de la Serrana de Perij, Colombia, asignable a Salvia sect. Tomentellae (Epling) Epling, seccin no registrada previamente en territorio colombiano. Se comenta la distribucin conocida y el estatus de conservacin y se discuten las posibles afinidades de esta especie. Se presenta una clave para separar las especies suramericanas de la seccin Tomentellae. /// The new species Salvia yukoyukparum Fernndez Alonso (Labiatae) is described and illustrated; it is endemic to the Serrana of Perij, Colombia, and is assigned to Salvia sect. Tomentellae (Epling) Epling, a section not previously recorded from Colombia. Its known distribution and conservation status is commented upon, and the possible affinities of this species are discussed. A key for the South American species of Salvia sect. Tomentellae is presented.
10.2307/3391805|Stemmadenia abbreviata and S. simulans are described from Costa Rica and Panama, and Tabernaemontana leeuwenbergiana is described from Colombia.
10.2307/3391525|The taxon Arceuthobium pini var. sichuanense, a parasite of Picea in southwestern China, is raised to specific rank. It is allopatric with A. pini, which differs in its parasitism of Pinus, its much larger shoots, and its smaller male flowers.
10.2307/3391513|Lepidium tayloriae from Atacama (Region III), Chile, is described and illustrated. Its relationship to L. pseudodidymum and L. strictum is discussed, and its distinguishing characters from these and other South American species are given.
10.2307/3391857|In conjunction with a treatment of Smilax (Smilacaceae) for the Flora of the Venezuelan Guayana, a number of taxonomic changes are proposed for previously described taxa from southern Venezuela. A discussion of morphological characters used in the revision and a key to the species in the Venezuelan Guayana are also presented.
10.2307/3393103|A new species of Gagnebina from northern Madagascar, G. bakoliae Luckow & Du Puy, is described and illustrated. The new species is most similar to G. bernieriana, and shares with it features such as resting buds, dehiscent fruits, and pollen in 16-celled polyads. Gagnebina bakoliae differs from G. bernieriana in having the pinnae decrescent both apically and basally, the petiole densely tomentose adaxially but glabrous abaxially, and pods somewhat larger and darker in color.
10.2307/3391377|The occurrence of Sessea corymbiflora in Venezuela is reported for the first time. It is presented here as a new species and an additional genus for the solanaceous flora of Venezuela. A description and illustration of the species are provided. The contorted nomenclature of S. corymbiflora is discussed, and the names S. corymbosa and S. atrovirens, in current use as referring to distinct entities, are reduced to synonymy.
40960837|Recent Neotropical exploration and floristic studies have continued the discovery of species of Rubiaceae new to science, including the six species described here: Bouvardia costaricensis C. M. Taylor of central Costa Rica is distinguished by its foliaceous enlarged calyx lobes and long white salverform corollas; Hillia puntila C. M. Taylor of dwarf montane forests in central Peru is distinguished by its quite small leaves and stipules; Joosia antioquiana C. M. Taylor of northwestern Colombia is distinguished by its long stipules, leaves with numerous secondary veins, and four entire (i.e., unornamented) corolla lobes; Ladenbergia franciscana C. M. Taylor of southern Ecuador is distinguished by its calyptrate stipules, small, mostly obtuse leaves, and shallowly lobed calyx limb; Pentagonia osaensis C. M. Taylor of southern Costa Rica is distinguished by its dense pilosulose to velutinous pubescence and its subtruncate to very shallowly lobed calyx limb; and Posoqueria laevis Taylor of Panama is distinguished by its leaves with the secondary and higher-order venation not visible. Recientes exploraciones y estudios florsticos neotropicales han seguido con el descubrimiento de especies de Rubiaceae nuevas para la ciencia, incluidas las seis especies descritas a continuacin: Bouvardia costaricensis C. M. Taylor, del centro de Costa Rica, se distingue por sus lbulos del cliz agrandados y foliceos y la corola larga, blanca, hipocraterimorfa; Hillia pumila C. M. Taylor, de los bosques montanos enanos del centro de Per, se distingue por sus hojas y estpulas muy pequeas; Joosia antioquiana C. M. Taylor, del noroeste de Colombia, se distingue por sus estpulas largas, hojas con numerosas nervaduras secundarias y cuatro lobos de la corola enteros (es decir, no ornamentados); Ladenbergia franciscana M. Taylor, del sur de Ecuador, se caracteriza por su estpulas caliptradas, las hojas pequeas y mayormente obtusas y el limbo del cliz ligeramente lobulado; Pentagonia osaensis densa pubescencia pilsula a velutina y el limbo calicino subtruncado a muy ligeramente lobulado; y Posoqueria laevis C. M. Taylor de Panam se distingue por sus hojas con la nervadura secundaria y de orden superior no visible.
40300907|Solarium anomalostemon S. Knapp & M. Nee is described from Cusco in southern Peru. The species is endemic to the Ro Apurmac basin and is known from very few collections. The new species has unique anther morphology within Solanum L.; this is compared to other anther variants in the genus. Potential relationships of this unusual and enigmatic species are discussed, the new species is illustrated, and a preliminary conservation assessment of Endangered (EN) is proposed. /// Solanum anomalostemon S. Knapp & M. Nee se describe de Cusco para el sur de Per. La especie es endmica de la cuenca del Ro Apurmac y conocida por muy pocas colecciones. La especie nueva tiene anteras con una morfologa nica en Solanum L., que son comparadas con otras variaciones de anteras en el gnero. Las relaciones potenciales de S. anomalostemon estan detalladas; se ilustra la especie y se le atribuye un estado de conservacion preliminar de En Peligro (EN).
10.2307/3392072|Two new species of Cynanchum in South America are described, C. bifidum Liede & Meve and C. trollii Liede & Meve. One South American Cynanchum species is transferred to Oxypetalum, fourteen to Metastelma, and four to Ditassa. Stelmatocodon and Fontellaea are recognized as synonyms of Philibertia.
10.2307/3391510|Phanerophlebia gastonyi, a new Mexican species, is described, and P. remotispora is reduced to varietal status under P. nobilis.
40300903|Eleocharis tenarum S. Gonzalez & M. Gonzlez (Cyperaceae), an endemic to dry temperate forests in Mexico, is described from Zacatecas and Durango. It belongs to Eleocharis R. Brown sect. Eleocharis subser. Truncatae Svenson s. l. and can be recognized by its basally burgundy to rose-purple upper sheaths with oblique, not truncate or cuspidate apex, and its dark brown achenes that are finely reticulate with longitudinally elongated cells. /// Se describe Eleocharis tenarum S. Gonzlez & M. Gonzlez (Cyperaceae), nueva especie endmica de bosques de clima templado seco de los estados de Durango y Zacatecas, Mexico. Forma parte de Eleocharis R. Brown sect. Eleocharis subser. Truncatae Svenson s. l. y se reconoce por sus vainas superiores basalmente de color rojo-vino a rosa-prpura, con pice oblicuo, no truncado ni cuspidado, y por su aquenio de color caf oscuro finamente reticulado con celdillas longitudinalmente alargadas.
10.2307/3392160|Se da a conocer una nueva combinacin para una especie sudamericana originalmente descripta bajo Poa: Festuca nigriflora (Hitchcock) Negritto & Anton (Poaceae). El material tpico es descripto e ilustrado. /// A new combination is made for a South American species originally described under Poa: Festuca nigriflora (Hitchcock) Negritto & Anton (Poaceae). The typical material is described and illustrated.
20406211|A new species, Tulipa faribae Ghahreman, Attar & Ghahremani-Nejad (Liliaceae), endemic to the Zagros Mountains of Kermanshah province, Iran, is described and illustrated. It is placed in the subgenus Leiostemones Boissier due to its lack of trichomes on the filaments and on the base of the tepals, and it appears to be most closely related to T. schrenkii Regel, due to its large bulb size, a papery tunic lined inside with some silky appressed hairs, and tepals usually scarlet with a black blotch margined with yellow. The new species differs in having flatter leaf margins, a more robust stem (to 8 mm in diameter), and larger perianth parts (tepals to 100 mm long).
10.2307/3392131|Pycnostachys recurvata, a new species from Ethiopia, is described and illustrated. Comparisons are made to P. pseudospeciosa and P. chevalieri, which it resembles by having recurved leaves, and to P. niamniamensis, P. reticulata, and P. deflexifolia, which it resembles in calyx shape.
10.2307/3393525|The new species Schradera obtusifolia C. M. Taylor (Rubiaceae) from Costa Rica and Panama is described and illustrated. This has previously been confused with S. costaricensis dwyer which also has obtuse to rounded leaf apices.
3393440|A new species, Pseudotaxiphyllum obtusifolium Z. Iwatsuki & B. C. Tan (Hypnaceae, Musci), is described. This moss species is related to P. pohliaecarpum (Sullivant & Lesquereux) Z. Iwatsuki, which is widely distributed in East Asia. The two most remarkable characters distinguishing this new species from P. pohliaecarpum are the shape of leaf apices, which in the former are widely obtuse to round, and also the larger laminal cells in the new species.
20406321|The lectotype is designated for Myriophyllum oguraense Miki, a species described from Japan in 1934. This taxon is listed as an endangered species in Japan. Among Asian taxa, M. oguraense is distinguished by its monoecious habit and glaucous leaves.
20406046|Oresbia heterocarpa Cron & B. Nordenstam (Asteraceae, Senecioneae) is described as a new genus and species from South Africa. Until now the species has been known as Cineraria tomentosa Lessing, although first described as Senecio lanatus L. f. Both of these names are illegitimate. Characteristic features of Oresbia are the perennial habit with sessile, non-pinnatifid leaves, which are densely tomentose below, and the heteromorphic cypselae with four-winged ray-floret cypselae. The closest affinities of Oresbia may be with Phaneroglossa B. Nordenstam and possibly also Lamprocephalus B. Nordenstam, which have similar distribution ranges in the Western Cape mountains.
3393492| El estudio de las colecciones tipo de los diferentes taxones del gnero Mandevilla Lindley (Apocynaceae), ha determinado que Echites speciosum Kunth, debe ser excluido de la sinonimia de M. subsagittata (Ruiz & Pavn) Woodson. Por lo tanto, se establece una nueva combinacin, Mandevilla speciosa (Apocynaceae, Apocynoideae, Mesechiteae), y M. fendleri se reduce a su sinonimia. Adicionalmente, se designa un neotipo para Mitozus discolor Miers. /// The study of the type collections from the different taxa in the genus Mandevilla Lindley (Apocynaceae) has established that Echites speciosum must be excluded from the synonymy of M. subsagittata (Ruiz & Pavn) Woodson. Therefore, a new combination, Mandevilla speciosa, is established, and M. fendleri is included in synonymy. A neotype is designated for Mitozus discolor Miers. 
23018490|Salvia aucheri Benth. (Lamiaceae) is a species endemic to Turkey, and the name is lectotypified herein. Two varieties were previously recognized, as S. aucheri var. aucheri and S. aucheri var. canescens Boiss. & Heldr.; the infraspecific taxa are recognized here as subspecies. During revisionary work on Turkish Salvia L., we determined that S. aucheri subsp. canescens (Boiss. & Heldr.) Celep, Kahraman & Doan differs from subspecies aucheri not only morphologically, but also geographically and phenologically, and both taxa are typically allopatric.
10.2307/3392040|Seven new species of Eleocharis are described based on study of material from the Venezuelan Guayana: Eleocharis alveolatoides, E. atrospiculata, E. ayacuchensis, E. eglerioides, E. liesneri, E. steyermarkii, and E. venezuelensis. Eleocharis squamigera is represented in the Venezuelan Guayana by a newly described subspecies, E. squamigera subsp. straminea, differing primarily in the pale color of the rhizome scales and glumes. Two new forms are also described, E. debilis forma anomala, differing from the typical form in having 3-branched styles and trigonous achenes mixed with the characteristic 2-branched styles and biconvex ones of this species, and E. geniculata forma brunnea, differing from typical E. geniculata in its brown achenes.
10.2307/3391466|The new combinations Lappula karelinii (Fischer & Meyer) R. Kamelin, Lindelofia stylosa (Karelin & Kirilow) Brand subsp. pterocarpa (Ruprecht) R. Kamelin, and Onosma setosa Ledebour subsp. transrhymnense (Klokov ex M. Popov) Kamelin are made, and the new name O. liui R. Kamelin & T. Popova is proposed.
10.2307/3391445|Nephthytis bintuluensis A. Hay, Bogner & P. C. Boyce is here first described from plants collected near Bintulu, Sarawak, East Malaysia. The genus was hitherto known only from western tropical Africa.
20406238|A new species of the Cape endemic genus Hermas L. is described. Hermas proterantha B. J. de Villiers is a very distinct new species endemic to Piquetberg Mountain in Western Cape province. It is the only deciduous Hermas species and has thinly textured, deeply lobed (pinnatipartite) leaves that wither in summer.
10.2307/3391828|Triniochloa talpensis from Mexico is described and illustrated. Its morphology and leaf anatomy are compared with those of T. laxa Hitchcock. /// Se describe e ilustra Triniochloa talpensis de Mxico. Se comparan caractersticas de morfologa y de anatoma foliar con aquellas de T. laxa Hitchcock.
10.2307/3392058|Among recent collections from Costa Rica were several undescribed species. Two new species of Pleurothyrium, P. guindonii and P. oblongum, are described, recent collections of poorly known species of that genus are listed, and a key to the Costa Rican species of Pleurothyrium is presented. These additions bring the number of Pleurothyrium species known from Costa Rica to eight. Two new species of Ocotea, O. rufescens and O. multiflora, are also described and their affinities are discussed, at least as far as known. Nectandra salvadorensis Lundell is transferred to Ocotea. A reexamination of type specimens has led to a different concept of Ocotea tonduzii Standley and O. pittieri (Mez) van der Werff. Most specimens formerly placed in O. pittieri are now included in the new species O. praetermissa. The correct name for specimens placed in O. tonduzii can only be determined after a study of the O. insularis complex.
20406281|Bouvardia borhidiana Lozada-Prez se describe e ilustra de Guerrero, Mxico. Esta nueva especie se caracteriza por sus ramas verdes y glabras, corola hipocraterimorfa y glabra por dentro y las ramas del estigma pubescentes. Se discute su relacin con B. laevis M. Martens & Galeotti. /// Bouvardia borhidiana Lozada-Prez is described and illustrated from Guerrero, Mexico. This new species is distinguished by green and glabrous branches, hypocrateriform corolla with a glabrous internal side, and by the pubescent branches of its stigma. Its relation with B. laevis M. Martens & Galeotti is discussed.
20406330|As part of a taxonomic revision of the genus Roegneria K. Koch (Poaceae, Triticeae), a neotype is designated for R. caucasica K. Koch, the type of the generic name, because the entire type collection of Koch's specimens in Berlin (B) was destroyed during World War II.
10.2307/3391702|The new species Palicourea jatunsachensis and P. plowmannii are similar vegetatively to P. subspicata, but can be separated by linear relatively long calyx lobes and well-developed inflorescence bracts, respectively.
20406235|A new species of alkali grass, Puccinellia banksiensis Consaul from Banks Island, Northwest Territories, in the Canadian Arctic, is described and illustrated. This diploid species is most similar to the Russian and Alaskan tetraploid P. hauptiana (Trinius ex V. I. Krecznetowicz) Kitagawa, from which it differs by having dense panicles with erect branches and palea keels with curly hairs in the proximal half; to the Siberian species P. neglecta (Tzvelev) Bubnova, which is larger with less dense inflorescences and wider leaves; and to the circumpolar hexaploid P. angustata (R. Br.) E. L. Rand & Redfield, from which it differs by having smaller spikelets and florets. It differs from other Puccinellia Parlatore species on Banks Island and the northern coast of Alaska by having lemmas shorter than 2.7 mm with scabrous apical margins and anthers shorter than 0.9 mm. Although morphology suggests a close relationship with P. angustata, P. hauptiana, and P. neglecta, genetic evidence suggests it is a distinct species. It is local and rare, and grows in low-elevation, Dryas L.--dominated tundra beside coastal lakes.
10.2307/3392168|Marsdenia carterae, a new species of Apocynaceae (Asclepiadoideae, Marsdenieae) from Baja California Sur, Mexico, is described and illustrated. This is the first North American species of Marsdenia with verticillate leaves and is also notable in lacking a developed corona and for its non-twining habit.
3393479|The genera Brachycarpaea, Cycloptychis, Schlechteria, Silicularia, and Thlaspeocarpa are united with Heliophila (Brassicaceae). Except for Brachycarpaea, the genera are treated as new synonyms of Heliophila. The characters previously used to distinguish these genera are critically evaluated. The retention of Brachycarpaea and Silicularia in Heliophila would not necessitate any nomenclatural novelties, but the transfer of species of the remaining three genera to Heliophila requires a new combination and four new names. The new combination H. namaquensis and the new names H. monosperma, H. maraisiana, H. hurkana, and H. suborbicularis are proposed.
20406139|Brasiliorchis R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali is here proposed to include the orchid species formerly recognized in the Maxillaria picta alliance, an orchid group mostly endemic to the Atlantic Rain Forest Biome, in south and southeastern Brazil. The new genus is supported by both morphological features and ongoing molecular studies. The new genus is easily diagnosed by its sulcate to ridged, bifoliate pseudobulbs and its long-lasting, campanulate, rewardless flowers. The pollinaria of these flowers are normally devoid of stipes. Formal diagnosis of the genus and 13 taxonomic combinations are presented: Brasiliorchis barbozae (Loefgren) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali, B. chrysantha (Barbosa Rodrigues) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali, B. consanguinea (Klotzsch) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali, B. gracilis (Loddiges) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali, B. heismanniana (Barbosa Rodrigues) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali, B. kautskyi (Pabst) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali, B. marginata (Lindley) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali, B. phoenicanthera (Barbosa Rodrigues) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali, B. picta (Hooker) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali, B. polyantha (Barbosa Rodrigues) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali, B. porphyrostele (Reichenbach f.) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali, B. schunkeana (Campacci & Kautsky) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali, and B. ubatubana (Hoehne) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali. Lectotypes are designated for B. barbozae, B. chrysantha, B. heismanniana, B. phoenicanthera, B. picta, and B. polyantha. A neotype is proposed for B. consanguinea. In addition, a key to distinguish Brasiliorchis from other sympatric bifoliate orchids within Brazilian Maxillariinae is presented. /// O gnero Brasiliorchis R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali,  proposto para conter aquelas espcies de orqudeas antes incluidas na Aliana Maxillaria picta; um agrupamento primariamente endmico do bioma Mata Atlntica, no Sul e Sudeste do Brasil. Este novo gnero  sustentado tanto por caracteres morfolgicos quanto por estudos de biologia molecular em andamento. O novo gnero  facilmente diagnosticado pelos seus pseudobulbos bifoliados, sulcados a canaliculados e pelas suas flores campanuladas, duradouras e sem recompensas florais. Os polinrios destas espcies normalmente carecem de estipes. Apresenta-se a diagnose formal do novo gnero, bem como treze novas combinaoes taxonmicas: Brasiliorchis barbozae (Loefgren) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali, B. chrysantha (Barbosa Rodrigues) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali, B. consanguinea (Klotzsch) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali, B. gracilis (Loddiges) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali, B. heismanniana (Barbosa Rodrigues) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali, B. kautskyi (Pabst) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali, B. marginata (Lindley) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali, B. phoenicanthera (Barbosa Rodrigues) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali, B. picta (Hooker) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali, B. polyantha (Barbosa Rodrigues) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali, B. porphyrostele (Reichenbach f.) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali, B. schunkeana (Campacci & Kautsky) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali e B. ubatubana (Hoehne) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali. So propostos lecttipos para B. barbozae, B. chrysantha, B. heismanniana, B. phoenicanthera, B. picta e B. polyantha. Prope-se um netipo para B. consanguinea. Alm disto apresenta-se uma chave dicotmica para separar Brasiliorchis das outras orqudeas Maxillariinae bifoliades brasileiras.
3393496|Two new species of Cymbopogon are described from China, C. liangshanensis and C. minor. Both belong to Cymbopogon series Proceri, previously mainly confined to Australia. A third species in this series, Cymbopogon quinhonensis from Vietnam, is transferred from Andropogon.
10.2307/3391996|Ten new combinations in the Flora of Sikkim are communicated.
10.2307/3391905|A neotype and epitype are selected for Dracontium dubium Kunth. Dracontium changuango G. S. Bunting is treated as a synonym of D. dubium.
3393464|A new species of Triaenophora Solereder, T. shennongjiaensis X. D. Li, Y. Y. Zan & J. Q. Li (Scrophulariaceae), is described and illustrated from Shennongjia National Natural Reserve, Hubei Province, China. The new species is related to T. rupestris (Hemsley) Solereder, from which it differs in having densely glandular leaves, dentate bract margins, and pale yellow petals that are retuse or rarely obtuse at their apices.
10.2307/3391475|The new combination Phlegmariurus dichotomus (Jacquin) W. H. Wagner is needed following recent revision of Lycopodium sensu lato, based on morphological and cytological characters.
20406010|The systematic diversity within the esparto grass has produced controversy since the first century AD regarding the varying quality of this natural product as textile material. Investigated herein is Stipa subg. Macrochloa (Kunth) Barrea, D. Rivera, Alcaraz & Obn. Two species, Stipa antiatlantica and S. tenacissima, as well as two subspecies within S. tenacissima are recognized. Stipa kralifii is newly synonymized with S. tenacissima subsp. gabesensis. A dichotomous key is presented for identification of the taxa. /// La diversidad sistemtica del esparto ha dado lugar a diversas controversias sobre la diferente calidad como material textil de este producto natural, desde el siglo I AD. Se investiga el gnero Stipa subgnero Macrochloa (Kunth) Barrea, D. Rivera, Alcaraz & Obn. Se reconocen 2 especies, Stipa antiatlantica y S. tenacissima, as como dos subspecies dentro de S. tenacissima. Se incluye Stipa kralifii nuevamente en sinonimia con S. tenacissima subsp. gabesensis. Se presenta una clave dicotmica para la identificacin de los taxones.
10.2307/3392105|Lepidium beckii, a shrubby new species from Depto. La Paz (Bolivia), is described and illustrated. Its relationship to L. philippianum and L. quitense is discussed.
20406189|Three subspecies of Rosa nutkana C. Presl and five of R. woodsii Lindley are recognized in western Canada and the United States, including four changes in combination and/or status: Rosa nutkana subsp. melina (Greene) W. H. Lewis & Ertter, R. woodsii subsp. arizonica (Rydberg) W. H. Lewis & Ertter, R. woodsii subsp. manca (Greene) W. H. Lewis & Ertter, and R. woodsii subsp. gratissima (Greene) W. H. Lewis & Ertter. Rosa nutkana subsp. melina and R. woodsii subsp. manca occur at high elevations of the southern Rocky Mountains and Colorado Plateau of Colorado and Utah with outlying populations in Arizona, Idaho, New Mexico, and Wyoming; R. woodsii subsp. arizonica is found at lower elevations of Arizona and the Colorado Plateau; and R. woodsii subsp. gratissima occurs in the mountains surrounding the Mojave Desert and southern Great Basin of California and Nevada, with its variety glabrata (Parish) D. Cole confined to the San Bernardino Mountains of California. Synonyms are provided for appropriate subspecies, 14 lectotypes and one neotype are designated here, and selected exsiccatae are given for newly recognized subspecies. The following names are lectotypified: Rosa bakeri Rydberg, nom. illeg., R. californica Chamisso & Schlechtendal var. ultramontana S. Watson, R. deserta Lunell, R. fendleri Crpin, R. macounii Greene, R. maximiliani Nees, R. megalantha G. N. Jones, R. neomexicana Cockerell, R. nutkana var. alta Suksdorf, R. nutkana var. hispida Fernald, R. nutkana var. pallida Suksdorf, R. rainierensis G. N. Jones, R. spaldingii Crpin ex Rydberg, and R. subnuda Lunell. One neotype is designated: Rosa woodsii Lindley.
10.2307/3392052|Carex porrecta is a relatively widespread but evidently rare species unique among New World representatives of Carex subg. Indocarex in having strongly outcurved perigynia with very long, spreading beaks and a conspicuous, thick rhizome. This species occurs in humid montane forests, often associated with ravines, rock outcrops, and steep slopes at about 1600-2600 m.
10.2307/3393580| An overview of the subspecies of Paullinia obovata in Peru is presented, recognizing five subspecies. One new subspecies, P. obovata subsp. flava Weckerle & Igersheim, is described. Paullinia brentberlinei is transferred to the rank of subspecies of P. obovata. Three varieties of P. obovata, i.e., var. obovata, var. polymorpha, var. subrotunda, are recognized at the subspecies level. All subspecies are illustrated, and their comparative morphological features are compared in a table. /// Se presenta una revisin de las subespecies de Paullinia obovata en Peru. Son reconocidas cinco subespecies. Se describe una nueva subespecie, P. obovata subsp. flava Weckerle & Igersheim. Paullinia brentberlinei es reducida a una subespecie de P. obovata. Tres variedades de P. obovata (var. obovata, var. polymorpha, var. subrotunda) son reconocidas como subespecies. Se provee una tabla resumen con los caracteres morfolgicos para la comparacin de los taxa, as como ilustraciones para cada uno de ellos. 
10.2307/3391489|A new species, Brongniartia zirandarensis (Fabaceae: Faboideae), from Guerrero, Mexico, is described and illustrated. Its affinities to B. mollicula Brandegee are discussed, and data are provided on habitat and abundance. /// Se describe y se ilustra una especie nueva, Brongniartia zirandarensis (Fabaceae: Faboideae), del estado de Guerrero, Mxico. Se discuten sus afinidades con B. mollicula Brandegee y se proporcionan datos de su hbitat y abundancia.
10.2307/3392050|A new genus from Venezuela, Tuberculocarpus, is described and illustrated, and the combination T. ruber is made. Thelechitonia and Complaya are placed in synonymy of the formerly unispecific Sphagneticola, and a lectotype is chosen for the generitype S. ulei and for Verbesina calendulacea. Sphagneticola includes cultivated Wedelia trilobata, and the combinations S. brachycarpa, S. calendulacea, S. gracilis, and S. trilobata are made. Wulffia is a taxonomic synonym of Tilesia, and combinations in Tilesia are proposed for the three species and one variety formerly placed in Wulffia: Tilesia baccata, T. macrocephala, T. rubens, and T. baccata var. discoidea. The basionym of the most widespread species of Tilesia (Coreopsis baccata) has previously been attributed to Linnaeus filius, but was published earlier by Linnaeus. Elaphandra moriana from French Guiana is described, and the combination Elaphandra lehmannii is made. Oyedaea wurdackii is described from Venezuela and is illustrated, and the combination Oyedaea tepuiana is proposed. The combination Verbesina ligulata is provided, and V. guianensis is lectotypified and is an earlier name for V. schomburgkii. Elaphandra sucrensis is reduced to synonymy of E. verbesinoides, E. lucidula is reduced to E. ulei, Oyedaea blakeana is reduced to O. scaberrima, and Wulffia trujilloi is reduced to Tilesia macrocephala.
3393445| A new species of Ceratolacis (C. pedunculatum, Podostemaceae) is illustrated and described. The new species is known from four locations in central Minas Gerais, Brazil. Ceratolacis pedunculatum is distinguished from the only other species of the genus based on the presence of a prominent peduncle and the oblique orientation of the ovary on the pedicel. /// Uma nova espcie de Ceratolacis (C. pedunculatum, Podostemaceae)  descrita e ilustrada. Esta espcie nova  conhecida de quatro localidades no centro de Minas Gerais, Brasil. Ceratolacis pedunculatum se distingue da outra espcie do gnero conhecida, pela presena de um pednculo proeminente e a orientao oblqua do ovario sobre o pedicelo. 
10.2307/3391999|Se describe Nanarepenta juxtlahuacensis, una nueva especie de Oaxaca, Mxico. Se discuten sus relaciones con la especie ms cercana, y su hbito y caracteres diagnsticos son illustrados. Esta nueva especie est cercanamente relacionada con N. guerrerensis Matuda, de la que se distingue, porque las inflorescencias pistiladas son mucho ms cortas que las hojas, las cpsulas oblongas y lisas, y los granos de polen son tectadoperforados, punteados. /// A new species, Nanarepenta juxtlahuacensis, from the state of Oaxaca, Mexico, is described. Its habit and diagnostic characters are illustrated, and its relationships are discussed. This species is closely related to N. guerrerensis. It is distinguished from that species by having pistillate inflorescences shorter than the leaves, oblong and smooth capsules, as well as by having tectate-perforate and punctuate pollen grains.
3393338|We describe and illustrate the new species Crotalaria mwangulangoi (Fabaceae, Faboideae) from the Udzungwa Mountains of south-central Tanzania and compare it with the morphologically similar species C. hemsleyi from the Nguru and Uluguru Mountains of eastern Tanzania.
10.2307/3393182|Tetraplasandra flynnii is described from Kaua'i, Hawaiian Islands. It resembles the more widespread T. kavaiensis, but is restricted to a single known population now comprising only three individuals growing in mesic to wet forest that is increasingly impacted by introduced goats and aggressive non-native plant species. Material has been propagated for ex situ conservation, but effective management will be required to ensure the continued survival of the wild population.
10.2307/3392077|Xylosma longipedicellata, a new species from the dry upland forests of Nicaragua and neighboring Honduras, is described, and its relationships to other similar Central American species are discussed.
10.2307/3392199|A new species, Cycas lindstromii, is described from Binh Thuan in southern Vietnam. It is allied to C. siamensis, but distinguished by its subterranean trunk, elongated megasporophyll, and shorter, keeled leaf. The new species is illustrated, and its distribution, ecology, and conservation status are discussed.
10.2307/3391422|A new name, Memecylon balakrishnanii, is proposed for a species of Memecylon described by Balakrishnan & Nair.
3393544|A new species of the genus Salvia L. (Lamiaceae) is described from the western slopes of Mount Lebanon characterized by a Mediterranean climate. Salvia fairuziana R. M. Haber & Semaan is distinguished by the following characters: perennial herb; hispid with dense tuberculate multiseptate trichomes emerging from wart-like turgid purple epidermal cells; leaves ovate-elliptic, cordate, shallowly lobed, verrucose; floral bracts discoidal, green with a white center and purple tips; verticillasters crowded; calyx 1.0-1.2 cm long, green, infundibular; corolla 2.4-2.7 cm long, lilac, squamulate, ventricose; staminal connectives dolabriform.
20406044|Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie del gnero Schwenckia (Solanaceae) encontrada en el Departamento del Caquet, Cordillera Oriental de Colombia, Schwenckia alvaroana Bentez. La misma se distingue del resto de las especies de la seccin Schwenckia por su hbito trepador y sus corolas de menor tamao. Tambin se proporciona una clave para separar las especies hasta ahora reconocidas de la seccin Schwenckia. A new species in Solanaceae from the Department of Caquet, Cordillera Oriental of Colombia, Schwenckia alvaroana Bentez, is described and illustrated. It is distinct from other species within section Schwenckia by its climbing habit and smaller corolla. Also a key for the currently recognized species of the members of section Schwenckia is provided.
10.2307/3393109| Se describe una nueva especie de Rhynchosia (Leguminosae) del occidente de Mxico, colectada en la Reserva de la Bisfera Chamela-Cuixmala, Jalisco, Mexico. Se trata de R. delicatula, la cual es cercana a R. difformis (Elliot) DC: de esta, R. delicatula se diferencia por la forma y pelosidad de sus fololos; pedicelos ms cortos; cliz ms corto que la corola; y el vexilo ms chico. /// A new species of Rhynchosia (Leguminosae) collected in the Chamela-Cuixmala Biosphere Reserve in the state of Jalisco, western Mexico, is described. Rhynchosia deliculata is similar to R. difformis but differs by the shape and pubescence of the leaflets, by the shorter pedicels, by the calyx shorter than the corolla, and by the smaller standard petal. 
40300927|The new variety Tripterospermum chi nense var. linearifolium X. F. Jin (Gentianaceae) is described from Zhejiang, eastern China, and distinguished from T. chinense (Migo) Harry Smith. Leaf characteristics of both varieties were statistically analyzed, and pollen grain and seed morphology was observed under SEM. SEM results showed that pollen and seed morphology did not differ between the new variety and the autonymic variety. According to the results of statistical analysis, T. chinense var. linearifolium differs mainly from the autonymic variety in having narrower leaves (3-9 mm vs. 11-43 mm) and solitary flowers (vs. two to five flowers).
20406116|Siphoneugena delicata Sobral & Proena (Myrtaceae), from the montane Atlantic forests of the Brazilian states of Esprito Santo and Minas Gerais, is described and illustrated. The new species is related to S. guilfoyleiana Proena, known until now only from the restinga vegetation in the state of So Paulo, and S. reitzii D. Legrand, from montane habitats from southern Brazil. It is distinguished from both by the shrubby habit, smaller leaves to 12 mm long with the midvein plane or sulcate adaxially, and clearly apiculate flower buds. Additionally, it is set apart from S. guilfoyleiana by the puberulous branches and deciduous bracteoles and from S. reitzii by the markedly rugose bark. /// Siphoneugena delicata Sobral & Proena (Myrtaceae), da floresta ombrfila altomontana dos estados de Esprito Santo e Minas Gerais,  descrita, ilustrada e comparada com S. guilfoyleiana Proena, conhecida somente para a restinga do estado de So Paulo, e S. reitzii D. Legrand, da floresta ombrfila montana do sul do Brasil. S. delicata se distingue de ambas pelo hbito arbustivo, folhas menores (at 12 mm de comprimento) com a nervura central sulcada ou plana na face adaxial e botes florais marcadamente apiculados. Alm disso, separa-se de S. guilfoyleiana pelos ramos pubrulos e bractolas decduas e de S. reitzii pelo crtex rugoso.
10.2307/3391457|Se describe una especie nueva de Hansteinia (Acanthaceae) solamente conocida del volcn del Tacan, Chiapas, Mxico, que se diferencia del resto de las especies mexicanas por tener inflorescencias espigadas. Su grano de polen es esferoidal, diporado, y con ornamentacin equinada que concuerda con la morfologa de los granos de polen del gnero. /// A new species of Hansteinia (Acanthaceae) is described from the Tacan volcano, Chiapas, Mexico. It differs from the other Mexican species of the genus by its spicate inflorescences. The pollen grains are spheroidal, diporate, and echinately sculptured, in agreement with the pollen morphology of the genus.
41811671|A new fern species, Polystichum loratum H. He & Li Bing Zhang (Dryopteridaceae), is described and illustrated from limestone cliffs in northern Guizhou Province, China. Polystichum loratum is most similar to P. yaanense Liang Zhang & Li Bing Zhang in having narrowly ovate to lanceolate abaxial rachis scales. The new species is distinguished by its lorate leaf lamina, the oblong to narrowly ovate microscales (broad-type) on abaxial pinna surfaces, and the exindusiate sori, while P. yaanense has lanceolate leaf lamina, subulate microscales (narrow-type) on abaxial pinnae, and indusiate sori. Polystichum loratum is considered to be Critically Endangered (CR), based on IUCN Red List criteria.
10.2307/3391558|Three subclass and 40 superordinal names now in current use, but not validly published, are validated.
10.2307/3393252|The circumscription of Casparya silletensis A. DC. ( = Begonia silhetensis (A. DC.) C. B. Clarke) is emended so as to accurately describe the type material of this species and exclude material of B. aborensis S. T. Dunn. Begonia silletensis subsp. mengyangensis, a taxon endemic to the Xishuangbanna region of Yunnan Province, China, is newly described and illustrated. Begonia silletensis subsp. mengyangensis differs from subspecies silletensis by its larger leaves (14-27 x 20-27 cm vs. 10-17 x 10-15 cm) and unequally ridged fruit. Begonia silletensis subsp. silletensis is reported new to Burma and Thailand. A key is provided to distinguish the two subspecies.
10.2307/3392037|Two new species of Endlicheria are described, illustrated, and discussed. Endlicheria canescens has hitherto been confused with Ocotea endlicheriopsis Mez, and Endlicheria chalisea was previously known only by the densely pubescent cupules of fruiting material.
10.2307/3391812|The new species Psychotria leitana C. M. Taylor is described, the combination Psychotria subspathulata (Mueller Argoviensis) C. M. Taylor is made based on Mapouria subspathulata Mueller Argoviensis, and the new names Psychotria ararum C. M. Taylor, for Palicourea glaziovii Standley, and Psychotria setulifera C. M. Taylor, for Palicourea hispidula Standley, are provided.
10.2307/3392115|Se describe e ilustra por primera vez a Furcraea niquivilensis, del estado de Chiapas, Mxico. Esta especie tiene afinidad con F. macdougallii pero difiere de ella por la forma de la hoja, la pancula piramidal, el tamao mayor de las flores y forma y tamao de los bulbilos. /// Furcraea niquivilensis from Chiapas, Mexico, is described and illustrated for the first time. It is related to F. macdougallii, from which it differs by the shape of the leaves, the pyramidal panicle, as well as by the flower size, and shape and size of the bulbils.
10.2307/3391794|A new milkweed, Asclepias jorgeana, from pine-oak forests of Chihuahua, Sonora, Durango, and Guanajuato, Mexico, is described and illustrated. It appears to be related to A. pringlei (Greenman) Woodson, which occurs mostly to the south and east of A. jorgeana; however, they occur sympatrically in Durango. The new species is distinguished from A. pringlei by attenuate corona hoods, erect, fusiform follicles, and comose seeds. Although the new species has been collected several times since 1946, specimens have remained unidentified or have been determined to be hybrids or an undescribed species.
10.2307/3391464|Euphorbia masirahensis, a new species from Masirah Island, Sultanate of Oman, is described. Its habitat and flowering and fruiting periods are given, and its distribution and endemicity are discussed. An illustration of the species and a distribution map are also provided.
23018450|Hechtia edulis I. Ramrez, Espejo & Lpez-Ferr. (Bromeliaceae) is described and illustrated from Copper Canyon National Park, Chihuahua, Mexico. The new entity is characterized by its caespitose, monocarpic habit, by its small rosettes, and by the similarity of its staminate and pistillate inflorescences in size, the simple panicles with the branching much shortened, the flowers sessile, the floral bracts scarious, and pistillate flowers with petals green and carnose. Se describe e ilustra Hechtia edulis I. Ramrez, Espejo & Lpez-Ferr. (Bromeliaceae) del Parque Nacional Barranca del Cobre, Chihuahua, Mxico. Esta nueva entidad se caracteriza por su hbito cespitoso, rosetas monocrpicas, de tamao pequeo y por la similitud de sus inflorescencias estaminadas y pistiladas, panculas simples con ramas muy cortas, flores ssiles, brcteas florales escariosas y flores pistiladas con ptalos verdes y carnosos.
20406308|Linaria iranica Hamdi & Assadi (Scrophulariaceae) is a new species from Kerman Province, Iran. It belongs to Linaria Miller sect. Versicolores (Bentham) Wettstein, and its closest relative is L. tenuis Sprengel. Linaria iranica differs from L. tenuis in the smaller corollas (7-8 mm vs. 12-17 mm), longer spurs relative to the remaining corolla, smaller capsules (3-3.2 mm vs. 3.5-6 mm), and the ornamentation of seed surfaces.
3393316| Se describe una nueva especie del gnero Eleocharis (Cyperaceae) para la flora de Venezuela; se presenta en una tabla la separacin de los caracteres con dos especies afines: E. schaffneri Boeckeler y E. intricata Kkenthal. /// A new species of the genus Eleocharis (Cyperaceae) is described for the Venezuelan flora. A table is presented with comparative characteristics for two related species: E. shaffneri Boeckeler and E. intricata Kkenthal. 
10.2307/3392997|Dahlia parvibracteata (Asteraceae, Coreopsideae), a new species from Guerrero, Mexico, is described and illustrated. It is distinguished by its numerous flowers on terminal or axillary stems, either borne singly on long peduncles or on short-branching naked stems held above the foliage, and by its narrowly spatulate to oblong-lanceolate outer involucral bracts. This species falls within the natural range for the genus, and is morphologically closest to D. moorei, although there are distinct differences. /// Se describe e ilustra Dahlia parvibracteata (Asteraceae, Coreopsideae), una especie nueva de Guerrero, Mxico. Se distingue por sus flores numerosas dispuestas en tallos terminales o axilares, ya sea solitarios en pednculos largos o en tallos desnudos cortamente ramificados y sostenidos por encima del follaje, y por sus brcteas involucrales externas angostamente espatuladas a oblongo-lanceoladas. Esta especie se encuentra dentro del rango natural del gnero y es morfolgicamente cercana a D. moorei, aunque existen diferencias marcadas.
10.2307/3393163|The new species Decaspermum struckoilicum N. Snow & Guymer is described from Queensland. It is distinguished from Decaspermum humile (G. Don) A. J. Scott in Australia by its narrower and more acute leaves, shorter petioles, and unlobed mature fruits. The new species lacks the "vertical false septum" that has been reported to occur in the middle of each locule between seeds in Decaspermum, and which has been used in part to diagnose Decaspermum from related genera. Instead, the three seeds that typically occur per locule in the mature fruit are completely surrounded by an encapsulating membrane. Typically, seeds within the membrane are weakly fused and lack any intervening tissue between them. A key is provided to separate the new species from Decaspermum humile.
40300890|The traditional circumscription of the genus Stonesia G. Taylor (Podostemaceae, Podostemoideae) includes three species restricted to western tropical Africa. Here, a new species, 5. ghoguei E. Pfeifer & Rutishauser, is described, which represents the first Cameroonian member of the genus. There are another three Stonesia species restricted to western tropical Africa (Guinea and Sierra Leone). The genus Stonesia is characterized by capsule valves with five or seven ribs each, with the ribs nearest the sutures shorter and not reaching the ends of valves. This unique pattern is shared with the two Madagascan genera Endocaulos C. Cusset and Paleodicraeia C. Cusset. Molecular (matK) data indicate that this capsule pattern is homoplastic, occurring in Madagascar and (with Stonesia) in tropical Africa. Various characters of Stonesia (including 5. ghoguei) are also found in other African podostemoids. These include flower buds inverted in the sac-like spathella; crustose roots or broad ribbons with exogenous root lobes (daughter roots); stems usually simple (rarely branched), up to 10(-40) cm long; flowers arising primarily from endogenous buds inside the stem cortex in 5. ghoguei and S. fascicularis G. Taylor; and leaves repeatedly forked into narrow segments, with epiphyllous flowers arising from the clefts of these forks in S. ghoguei and S. heterospathella G. Taylor. Unlike the western African Stonesia species, 5. ghoguei has pollen mainly released in monads (not only dyads), one stamen per flower with two lateral tepals (not two stamens with three tepals), and unilocular ovaries (not bilocular ones).
10.2307/3393124|Anthurium obpyriforme from Loja province in southern Ecuador is described as new. This species has been confused with A. oxybelium Schott but shows considerable morphological and ecological differences. Anthurium oxybelium is introduced as the oldest name of a widespread upland species, and its relevant synonymy is included. A key is provided to distinguish Anthurium obpyriforme from the latter and other related high-altitude species of Anthurium sect. Belolonchium in Ecuador.
10.2307/3391800|Changes in taxonomic rank are proposed for two North American Rhynchospora (Cyperaceae) and for two Xyris (Xyridaceae): Rhynchospora recognita (Gale) Kral, Rhynchospora harveyi W. Boott var. culixa (Gale) Kral, Xyris laxifolia Martius var. iridifolia (Chapman) Kral, and Xyris stricta Chapman var. obscura Kral. The morphologic basis for such changes is given.
43288943|A new species of Holcus L. (Poaceae), endemic to the island of Madeira (Portugal), is here described as H. pintodasilvae M. Seq. & Castrov. This new species is morphologically closely related to the Macaronesian endemics H. rigidus Hchst, ex Hchst. (Azores Archipelago) and H. mollis L. subsp. hierrensL Stierst. (El Hierro Island, in the Canary Islands) but differs by having the culm nodes light brown, the leaves with a glabrous sheath and subspreading lamina attenuated to an acuminate apex, the glumes blunt, shiny, glabrous (except in the minutely scabrous veins), the upper glume with proximal lateral veins, and the lemma of the upper floret with an awn ca. 4 mm, twice as long as the lemma. Chromosome counts in H. pintodasilvae are tetraploid (2n = 28). Morphology, ecology, biogeography, and conservation issues are discussed and related to other Macaronesian Holcus taxa. Holcus pintodasilvae was found as only three populations (totaling less than 20 individuals), and its IUCN conservation status is Critically Endangered (CR). A new specific status is proposed for H. mollis subsp. hierrensL, as H. hierrensL (Stierst.) Stierst. & M. Seq., based on its chromosome number and morphological identity. Descreve-se urna nova especie, Holcus pintodasilvae M. Seq. & Castrov., pertencente ao gnero Holcus L. (Poaceae), endmica da Ilha da Madeira (Portugal). Morfologicamente prxima dos endemismos macaronsicos H. rigidus Hchst, ex Hchst. (Arquiplago dos Acores) e H. mollL L. subsp. hierrensL Stierst. (Ilha de Hierro, Arquiplago das Canarias) diferencia-se por possuir: nos de coloraao castanha-clara; folhas com bainhas glabras e lminas subpatentes atenuadas num pice acuminado; glumas brilhantes, mticas e glabras (excepto as nervuras que se apresentam escabrisculas), gluma superior com as nervuras laterais proximais; lema da flor superior com arista ca. 4 mm (duas vezes o complimento da lema). Incluem-se ainda resultados da contagem de cromossomas de H. pintosilvae (2n = 28). Discutem-se, e relacionam-se com outros taxa Macaronsicos do gnero Holcus, aspectos relativos  morfologia, ecologia, biogeografia e conservaao. Holcus pintodasilvae foi encontrado em apenas tres populaes (num total de menos de 20 individuos), sendo o seu estado de conservaao IUCN est criticamente ameaado (CR). Propoe-se ainda a combinaao H. hierrensis (Stierst.) Stierst. & M. Seq. baseada na sua identidade morfologica e numero cromossomtico.
20406154|The name Strobilanthes sarcorrhiza (C. Ling) C. Z. Zheng (Acanthaceae) was not validly published in 1993 because the reference to the basionym was not cited fully. The name is validated here and represents a new combination referred from Championella Bremekamp. The taxon is similar to S. oligantha Miquel, but it differs in its rhizome thickened (vs. not thickened), petioles 0-0.3 cm (vs. 3-4 cm), leaf blades lanceolate to oblonglanceolate (vs. broad-ovate to elliptic), lateral veins 7 to 9 (vs. 3 to 6), and spikes 2-4(-5) cm (vs. ca. 1 cm).
10.2307/3391983|To provide a valid name for the floristic checklist of the Ituri Forest (Democratic Republic of Congo), a new combination is made: Tarenna gilletii (De Wildeman & T. Durand) N. Hall ex Gereau (Rubiaceae).
10.2307/3392039|A new species, Passiflora trialata (Passifloraceae: subg. Passiflora), from French Guiana, South America, is described and illustrated from living cultivated material. Its affinities to the P. quadrangularis L. species complex are discussed.
10.2307/3393169|Arisaema danzhuense T. S. Yi & H. Li (sect. Trisecta) is described as a new species from the Gaoligong Mountains, northwestern Yunnan, China. It is closely related to A. propinquum Schott but differs in having a greenish spathe with white stripes and a round apex with an acumen 5 mm long, a greenish petiole and peduncle densely verruculose with whitish spinules, and the terminal leaflet with an acute apex.
3393401| Three new species of Schefflera from the Espinhao Range in Minas Gerais, Brazil, are described and illustrated: Schefflera botumirimensis Fiaschi & Pirani resembles S. glaziovii (Taubert) Frodin & Fiaschi, but differs by its elongated inflorescence and leaflet morphology. Schefflera fruticosa Fiaschi & Pirani appears to be related to S. vinosa (Chamisso & Schlechtendal) Frodin & Fiaschi, but can be distinguished by its reduced inflorescence with up to five partial inflorescences at each primary branch. Schefflera villosissima Fiaschi & Pirani is similar to S. macrocarpa (Chamisso & Schlechtendal) Frodin, but differs by its more dense indumentum and the flowers grouped in heads. /// Trs espcies novas de Schefflera da Cadeia do Espinhao em Minas Gerais, Brasil, so descritas e ilustradas: Schefflera botumirimensis Fiaschi & Pirani assemelha-se a S. glaziovii (Taubert) Frodin & Fiaschi, no entanto difere desta pela inflorescncia alongada e a morfologia dos fololos. Schefflera fruticosa Fiaschi & Pirani parece relacionada a S. vinosa (Chamisso & Schlechtendal) Frodin & Fiaschi, mas pode ser distinta pelas inflorescncias reduzidas com at 5 inflorescncias parciais por ramo primrio. Schefflera villosissima Fiaschi & Pirani assemelha-se a S. macrocarpa (Chamisso & Schlechtendal) Frodin, diferindo pelo indumento mais denso e as flores agrupadas em captulos. 
40300933|Two new Malagasy species of Dombeya Cavanilles subgen. Xeropetalum (Delile) K. Schumann (Malvaceae) are described. Dombeya asymmetrica Applequist is native to Mananara-Nord in northeastern Madagascar, and D. rienanensis Applequist to the Matatana River basin. Dombeya rienanensis is placed within subseries Trohy Arnes. Dombeya asymmetrica is tentatively placed within subseries Repandae Arnes; the species is distinguished by its long, narrow lanceolate leaves with asymmetrical apices. /// Deux nouvelles espces malgaches de Dombeya Cavanilles subgen. Xeropetalum (Delile) K. Schumann (Malvaceae) sont dcrites. Dombeya asymmetrica Applequist est originaire de la rgion de Mananara-Nord au nord-est de Madagascar, et D. rienanensis Applequist du bassin du Matatana. Dombeya rienanensis est classe en subseries Trohy Arnes. Dombeya asymmetrica est classe provisoirement en subseries Repandae Arnes; l'espce est caractrise par ses feuilles longues, troitement lancolees, avec un apex asymtrique.
27765209|Ruellia saccata Schmidt-Lebuhn & E. Tripp, a new species of Acanthaceae from Beni, Bolivia, with a highly distinctive corolla morphology, is described as new to science. The novelty resembles and is related to R. brevifolia (Pohl) C. Ezcurra, but differs in the presence of a pronounced corolla pouch, a longer corolla with a narrower orifice, and a spreading to procumbent habit. Its differences from and similarities to other species in the genus are also discussed, and an updated key to the red-flowered Bolivian species of Ruellia L. is presented. Ruellia saccata Schmidt-Lebuhn & E. Tripp, una nueva especie de Acanthaceae de Beni, Bolivia, que tiene una corola morfolgicamente muy distintiva, es descrita como nueva para la ciencia. La nueva especie se asemeja y est relacionada a R. brevifolia (Pohl) C. Ezcurra, pero se distingue por tener una corola ms larga con un orificio ms estrecho y una bolsa pronunciada en la misma, ascomo por presentar un hbito extendido y procumbente. Las diferencias y semejanzas de la nueva especie a otras en el gnero tambin son discutidas, y una clave actualizada para las especies bolivianas de Ruellia L. de flores rojas es presentada.
41811668|As part of the taxonomic treatment of Eriotheca Schott & Endl. in Brazil (Bombacoideae, Malvaceae), a lectotype is designated for Bombax crenulatum K. Schum. [= E. gracilipes (K. Schum.) A. Robyns], and an epitype is selected for E. globosa (Aubl.) A. Robyns. The change of status is proposed for two names in Eriotheca. Eriotheca candolleana (K. Schum.) A. Robyns var. longipes A. Robyns is recognized at the species level as E. longipes (A. Robyns) M. C. Duarte & G. L. Esteves; E. macrophylla (K. Schum.) A. Robyns subsp. sclerophylla (Ducke) A. Robyns is also recognized at species rank as E. sclerophylla (Ducke) M. C. Duarte & G. L. Esteves. Durante o estudo taxonmico de Eriotheca Schott ex Endl. no Brasil (Bombacoideae, Malvaceae), verifcou-se que mudanas eram necessrias. So designados um lecttipo para Bombax crenulatum K. Schum. [= E. gracilipes (K. Schum.) A. Robyns] e um eptipo para E. globosa (Aubl.) A. Robyns. Duas mudanas de status so propostas: E. candolleana (K. Schum.) A. Robyns var. longipes A. Robyns para E. longipes (A. Robyns) M. C. Duarte & G. L. Esteves e E. macrophylla (K. Schum.) A. Robyns subsp. sclerophylla (Ducke) A. Robyns para E. sclerophylla (Ducke) M. C. Duarte & G. L. Esteves.
10.2307/3391392|Three new series in Lepanthes sect. Lepanthes are described, and sixteen new species of Lepanthes are described from Ecuador.
10.2307/3391501|A new hybrid between two species of the endemic Hawaiian genus Adenophorus is described. On morphological grounds it appears to be a hybrid between A. hymenophylloides and A. tripinnatifidus. That hypothesis is supported by preliminary isozyme data, which also demonstrate that different individuals were produced by separate hybridization events. The irregular size and shape of spores and lack of complete pairing of meiotic chromosomes indicate that the hybrid is infertile.
10.2307/3393114|A new species of Diplopanax, D. vietnamensis (Nyssaceae, Cornaceae s.l.), was discovered in the mountains of southern Vietnam. It differs from the single known species, Diplopanax stachyanthus, by short, simple, densely pubescent inflorescences and large yellow-white flowers with five prominent bosses on the flower disc. This genus (with two species, D. stachyanthus and D. vietnamensis) is now regarded as congeneric with Mastixicarpum, representatives of which were an integral component of the Mastixia-like paratropical broad-leaved evergreen vegetation that covered much of the Northern Hemisphere from the uppermost Cretaceous to the late Miocene, about 65 to 7 million years ago.
23018482|A revision of the taxa belonging to the Genista ephedroides group (Fabaceae, Cytiseae) occurring in the Tyrrhenian area is presented. The study, carried out on the basis of the literature, herbarium material, and field and karyological investigations, allows the recognition of 13 taxa. Eight are already known: G. cilentina Vals., G. demarcoi Brullo, Scelsi & Siracusa, G. dorycnifolia Font Quer, G. ephedroides DC., G. gasparrinii (Guss.) C. Presl, G. numidica Spach, G. tyrrhena Vals., and G. valsecchiae Brullo & De Marco, and five are new to science. Genista bocchierii Bacch., Brullo & Feoli Chiapella, G. insularis Bacch., Brullo & Feoli Chiapella, G. insularis subsp. fodinae Bacch., Brullo & Feoli Chiapella, and G. ovina Bacch., Brullo & Feoli Chiapella are described from Sardinia, Italy, while G. tyrrhena subsp. pontiana Brullo & De Marco is described from the Pontine Archipelago of Latium, Italy. Karyologically, most of the taxa are characterized by the somatic number 2n = 48 (G. bocchierii, G. cilentina, G. demarcoi, G. dorycnifolia, G. gasparrinii, G. tyrrhena subsp. tyrrhena, G. ephedroides, G. valsecchiae, G. insularis), with accessory chromosomes occasionally yielding higher counts. In addition to 2n = 48, the new report of 2n = 44 is noted for the new species G. ovina. A new count of 2n = 48 is reported for G. tyrrhena subsp. tyrrhena, whereas higher counts (2n = 48 + 0 2B, 72, 96) are reported for the new subspecies G. tyrrhena subsp. pontiana. For each examined taxon, notes are given on the nomenclature, karyology, ecology, and chorology, while a detailed iconography is lacking only for G. numidica and G. dorycnifolia. An analytical key for the G. ephedroides group is presented. Lectotypes are designated for G. numidica and Spartium gymnopterum Viv.
3393551|Described and illustrated are the new species: Psychotria calidicola C. M. Taylor, found in Costa Rica and Panama and previously confused with P. eurycarpa Standley; P. chocoana C. M. Taylor, found in northwestern Colombia; P. gaitalensis C. M. Taylor of central Panama, previously confused with P. simiarum Standley; P. osaensis C. M. Taylor of southern Costa Rica, previously confused with P. deflexa DC.; P. paradichroa C. M. Taylor of Panama, previously confused with P. dichroa (Standley) C. M. Taylor; Psychotria sanblasensis C. M. Taylor of eastern Panama, previously confused with P. croceovenosa Dwyer; P. sinuata C. M. Taylor of northwestern South America, similar to P. angustiflora K. Krause and distinguished by its usually sinuate to scalloped leaf margins; and P. soejartoi C. M. Taylor of northwestern South America, previously confused with P. stenostachya Standley. Also described and illustrated is a new subspecies, P. simiarum subsp. chiapensis of central and southern Mexico, which is allopatric with subspecies simiarum of coastal Veracruz, Mexico, to Panama. The name P. buchtienii (H. Winkler) Standley applies to a commonly collected species found from southern Mexico through Bolivia, for which a detailed description is presented; P. buchtienii has previously been confused with P. officinalis (Aublet) Sandwith. All of these species belong to Psychotria subg. Heteropsychotria (Rubiaceae, tribe Psychotrieae).
40300945|A new name, Aristolochia wuana Zhen W. Liu & Y. F. Deng, is proposed to replace the later homonym Aristolochia macrocarpa C. Y. Wu & S. K. Wu ex D. D. Tao, not A. macrocarpa Duchartre. The species may be closely related to A. griffithii Hooker f. & Thomson ex Duchartre but differs in its retuse or rounded leaf apex (vs. acute or shortly acuminate), oblong capsule (vs. narrowly cylindrical), and the smooth upper surface of the seeds (vs. rugose).
10.2307/3392259|The Mexican taxon Pinus apulcensis Lindley is lectotypified with an ovuliferous cone found among carpological material in the herbarium of the Natural History Museum in Vienna (W), which was sent to Endlicher by Lindley. This cone confirms treatments of that name in publications on Mexican pines up to 1945-1948, when Martnez interpreted it in a different sense, using a specimen he had received from the putative type locality. The resulting confusion has been corrected, and a revised synonymy of Lindley's taxon is presented.
40856280|Astragalus minimus Vogel (Leguminosae) is endemic to the Andean region of South America, in Peru, Bolivia, Chile, and northwestern Argentina. This taxon belongs to a pulvinate species complex in the genus Astragalus L. (Leguminosae, Galegeae) from high mountain puna vegetation, between 4000 and 4500 m in the Neotropics. The A. minimus complex is newly delimited, in particular with information for the fruit, which was not described in Vogel's 1843 protologue. This new information allows the identification of A. tacorensis Gmez-Sosa as a species new to science; both taxa are morphologically described and illustrated. Astragalus minimus Vogel (Leguminosae) es endmica de la regin andina de Amrica del Sur, en Per, Bolivia, Chile y noroeste de Argentina. Este taxon pertenece a un grupo o complejo de especies pulvinadas del gnero Astragalus L. (Leguminosae, Galegeae) de alta montaa de los Andes en vegetacin de puna, entre 4000 y 4500 m en el Neotropico. El complejo de A. minimus es nuevamente delimitado e incluye informacin, particularmente de fruto del ejemplar tipo, no descrito previamente en el protologo de Vogel (1843). Esta nueva informacin permite la identificacin de A. tacorensis Gmez-Sosa como una nueva especie para la ciencia; ambos taxa son morfolgicamente descriptos e ilustrados.
10.2307/3391566|Revisional studies in Croton to achieve a more nearly phylogenetic classification necessitate a number of nomenclatural changes. The genera Crotonopsis and Eremocarpus are reduced to sections of Croton, and the new names Croton michauxii and C. willdenowii are proposed for the two species of Croton sect. Crotonopsis. For Croton sect. Julocroton, the 25 species accepted are enumerated, including 19 new names or new combinations.
10.2307/3391533|A monographic study of sections Pentadenia and Stygnanthe of Columnea (Gesneriaceae) has revealed four species new to science and two new combinations. These species are described here and include C. atahualpae and C. hypocyrtantha of section Pentadenia, and C. manabiana, C. suffruticosa, C. ultraviolacea, and C. xiphoidea of section Stygnanthe.
10.2307/3391486|Lagenocarpus amazonicus (Cyperaceae), from Amazonas, Venezuela, is described and illustrated. It differs most notably from other species of section Junciformes in its strongly pubescent rhizome sheaths and connate stamen filaments.
10.2307/3393132|Seven species in four sections of Carex are described as new from North America: C. acidicola Naczi, C. calcifugens Naczi, C. paeninsulae Naczi, E. L. Bridges & Orzell, and C. thornei Naczi (all sect. Griseae); C. kraliana Naczi & Bryson (sect. Laxiflorae); C. gholsonii Naczi & Cochrane (sect. Granulares); and C. infirminervia Naczi (sect. Deweyanae). Carex acidicola, C. calcifugens, C. paeninsulae, and C. thornei, all members of the C. oligocarpa complex, have distichous perigynia and purple-red shoot bases. Carex acidicola, from a few sites in Alabama and Georgia, is distinctive in having the bases of the proximal bract blades whitish. Carex calcifugens occurs in a few populations in Florida, Georgia, North Carolina, and South Carolina. It is characterized by having the purple-red coloration at the plant base less extensive than in other members of the C. oligocarpa complex, the vegetative shoots exceeding the reproductive ones, and by bearing the proximal-most spikes at the bases of the shoots. Carex paeninsulae is restricted to a few sites in Florida. It is unique in the C. oligocarpa complex in having relatively long rhizomes. Carex thornei occurs in a few sites in Alabama, Florida, and Georgia. It has short bract blades and terminal spikes with long peduncles. Carex kraliana is widespread and frequent throughout most of the southeastern United States. It is distinctive in its lanceolate or narrowly lanceolate, wide bract blades. Carex gholsonii occurs in Alabama, Florida, Georgia, North Carolina, and South Carolina. It is rare in all portions of its range except for parts of Florida. It is distinctive in being loosely caespitose, having short ligules, short bract blades, long and wide terminal spikes, and long perigynia. The chromosome number of C. gholsonii, determined from two populations in Florida, is 16 II + 1 IV. Carex infirminervia is widespread but infrequent throughout much of the western United States and western Canada. It is unique in its combination of papillose culms, long ligules, perigynium beaks occupying a high percentage of the perigynium length, and toothless or short-toothed perigynium apices. The new combination C. digitalis var. floridana (L. H. Bailey) Naczi & Bryson (Carex sect. Careyanae) is proposed to replace C. digitalis var. asymmetrica Fernald because of the priority of Bailey's epithet.
10.2307/3391785|Phylogenetic studies based on morphological data show that Farringtonia, a monotypic genus originally placed in the Microlicieae but recently assigned to the Melastomeae, forms part of a small clade nested within the genus Siphanthera. Because these genera form a monophyletic group, Farringtonia and Siphanthera are merged and the new combination, Siphanthera fasciculata, is proposed.
10.2307/3392165|En la presente nota dos de las tres variedades no tpicas de la especie Gochnatia paniculata: G. paniculata var. lanuginosa y G. paniculata var. polycephala son consideradas sinnimos de G. paniculata. Gochnatia paniculata var. densicephala es elevada a la categora de especie; la nueva combinacin propuesta es: Gochnatia densicephala (Cabrera) Sancho. /// Two non-typical varieties, G. paniculata var. lanuginosa and G. paniculata var. polycephala, are sunk back into the synonymy of G. paniculata, which as recognized here includes no infraspecific taxa. Gochnatia paniculata var. densicephala is raised to the rank of species; the new combination proposed is: Gochnatia densicephala (Cabrera) Sancho.
20406016|In preparing the treatment of the Elaeocarpaceae for the Flora of China, lectotypification is indicated for Elaeocarpus decipiens Hemsley ex Forbes & Hemsley and further nomenclatural change is required regarding a related taxon from Taiwan. The name Elaeocarpus lanyuensis C. E. Chang is invalid because the type was not indicated in the protologue, and the combination E. sylvestris var. lanyuensis (C. E. Chang) C. E. Chang is therefore illegitimate. Elaeocarpus decipiens Hemsley ex Forbes & Hemsley var. changii Y. Tang is published as a new variety, replacing these earlier names.
20406225|Se describe e ilustra una especie nueva, Meriania aurata C. Ulloa, D. Fernndez & D. A. Neill (Melastomataceae) del Parque Nacional Llanganates, Ecuador. Se parece a M. hernandoi L. Uribe; ambas especies tienen hojas de gran tamao con la base de la lmina auriculada y con un escudo en la insercin del pecolo, la inflorescencia robusta, el cliz amarillo, los ptalos anaranjados y las tecas moradas, pero la especie nueva se distingue por tener dientes calicinos externos conspicuos y coriceos, aurculas conspicuas y el escudo slo adaxial. /// Meriania aurata C. Ulloa, D. Fernndez & D. A. Neill (Melastomataceae) from the Llangantes National Park, Ecuador, is described and illustrated. It resembles M. hernandoi L. Uribe; both species have large leaves with auriculate base and a scutum at the petiole insertion, a robust inflorescence, yellow calyx, orange petals, and purple thecae, but the new species is distinguished by the conspicuous coriaceous external calyx teeth, conspicuous auricles, and scutum present only adaxially.
10.2307/3393154|Review of specimens newly collected for one of the International Cooperative Biodiversity Groups led to the recognition of three new species closely related to Cordia trachyphylla Martius, with which some specimens had previously been confused. All three are members of a group of species within Cordia sect. Myxa that are characterized by having a costate calyx. Three new species within this group are described, Cordia hatschbachii, C. kingstoniana, and C. koemarae, and a key is provided to assist in separation of the neotropical species of Cordia sect. Myxa with costate calyces.
10.2307/3392164|Three new combinations, one in Abarema and two in Albizia (tribe Ingeae of the Mimosaceae), are proposed based on the study of fertile material from Central and South America. Two of these are necessary for the completion of the Mimosaceae treatment for Flora de Nicaragua.
10.2307/3391978|Nasturtium, which is often reduced to synonymy of Rorippa, is recognized as a distinct genus of five species. It is more closely related to Cardamine than to Rorippa, and its distinguishing characters from these genera are given. The new combination N. floridanum is proposed, and a key to the species is provided.
27765240|Although Appunia Hook. f. has been synonymized by some recent authors with Morinda L., it is here provisionally recognized as a Neotropical genus, with the new species A. megalantha C. M. Taylor & Lorence found in wet lowland forests of northwestern Colombia, northern Peru, and perhaps Ecuador and easily separated from other species of Appunia by its climbing habit and relatively large corollas with six lobes. Two new species of Coutarea Aubl. with actinomorphic corollas expand its known diversity in seasonal and dry inter-Andean valleys, with C. coutaportloides C. M. Taylor of southwestern Ecuador and C. fuchsioides C. M. Taylor of northeastern Peru both similar to C. andrei Standl. A second species of Patima Aubl., P. minor C. M. Taylor (Hamelieae) from Guyana, doubles the number of species known and expands the morphological variation in the genus to include 4-merous flowers. A fourth species of Rosenbergiodendron Fagerl., R. reflexum C. M. Taylor & Lorence from Peru, has subglobose fruits and relatively large corollas, ca. 34.5 cm long.
3393480|A new species of Tripogon from western China (Sichuan Province). T. debilis L. B. Cai. is described and illustrated. This species is similar to both T. chinensis (Franchet) Hackel and T. sichuanicus S. M. Phillips & S. L. Chen, but distinguished from these two species by its pendent spikes, relatively long glumes and lemma awns, denticulate upper glumes, and its paleas strikingly shorter than the lemmas.
23259418|The new name Impatiens ecornuta Gerry Moore, Zika & Rushworth (Balsaminaceae) is proposed for the species of western North America currently recognized as I. ecalcarata Blank. The latter name is an illegitimate later homonym of I. ecalcarata Collett & Hemsl.
10.2307/3393201|Three new species and three infraspecific taxa of Murdannia are described from Sri Lanka. Murdannia dimorphoides Faden, with subsp. dimorphoides and subsp. perennis Faden, and Murdannia audreyae Faden are endemic to Sri Lanka. Murdannia striatipetala Faden also occurs in southern India. The new variety, Murdannia spirata var. parviflora Faden, is recognized as indigenous in Sri Lanka and naturalized in the southern United States (Florida). Murdannia vaginata var. glabrisepala Faden is described from Sri Lanka, but whether it occurs elsewhere is not firmly established.
10.2307/3392086|Taxonomic studies of Moraceae and Cecropiaceae of Central America and the Andean region led to establishment of the following new taxa and combinations in Moraceae: Brosimum multinervium C. C. Berg, Ficus carchiana C. C. Berg, F. cotinifolia Kunth var. hondurensis (Standley & L. O. Williams) C. C. Berg, F. osensis C. C. Berg, F. rieberiana C. C. Berg, Maquira guianensis Aublet subsp. costaricana (Standley) C. C. Berg, Naucleopsis capirensis C. C. Berg, N. herrerensis C. C. Berg, N. humilis C. C. Berg, N. naga Pittier subsp. meridionalis C. C. Berg, N. straminea C. C. Berg, N. ulei (Warburg) Ducke subsp. puberula C. C. Berg, N. velutina C. C. Berg, Pseudolmedia glabrata (Liebmann) C. C. Berg, Sorocea jaramilloi C. C. Berg, S. pubivena Hemsley subsp. oligotricha (Akkermans & C. C. Berg) C. C. Berg, S. pubivena Hemsley subsp. hirtella (Mildbraed) C. C. Berg, S. ruminata C. C. Berg, S. sprucei (Baillon) Macbride subsp. subumbellata C. C. Berg; and in Cecropiaceae: Cecropia annulata C. C. Berg & P. Franco, C. heterochroma C. C. Berg & P. Franco, C. puberula C. C. Berg & P. Franco, C. tacuna C. C. Berg & P. Franco, Coussapoa david-smithii C. C. Berg, and C. villosa Poeppig & Endlicher subsp. polycephala C. C. Berg. For Ficus intramarginalis (Liebmann) Miquel a lectotype is designated.
10.2307/3392948| Thamnobryum liesneri differs from all other species of Thamnobryum in its ligulate to lingulate secondary stem and branch leaves that have exceptionally broad (to 160 m wide and a third or more of the leaf base width), strongly forked and spurred, subpercurrent costae. It differs from all species of Porotrichum and Porothamnium in having leaves with very broad costae and short upper cells. A key to the three species of Thamnobryum in the Neotropics is given. 
10.2307/3392272|A lectotype of Kengyilia mutica (Keng ex Keng & S. L. Chen) J. L. Yang, Yen & Baum is here designated based on an illustration of the holotype; the latter has been lost. A more complete description than the original, which was based on a single and incomplete specimen, is provided.
20406034|Schumannianthus monophyllus Suksathan, Borchsenius & A. D. Poulsen, a new species of Marantaceae is described and illustrated. It differs from its closest relative S. dichotomus (Roxburgh) Gagnepain in having acaulescent vegetative shoots and shortly caulescent, unbranched fertile shoots (vs. with richly branched aerial stems), each shoot with only a single leaf, and in having a loosely capitate, branched inflorescence (vs. narrowly spiciform and usually unbranched in S. dichotomus).
10.2307/3391551|As treated for the forthcoming revision of the Jepson Manual of the Flowering Plants of California, there are 14 species of Lessingia Cham, in California. Benitoa Keck and Corethrogyne DC. are considered to be congeneric with Lessingia.
20406187|An evaluation of Asian Brotherella Loeske ex M. Fleischer reveals that a new combination in the genus Heterophyllium (Schimper) Kindberg is necessary to replace B. amblystega (Mitten) Brotherus for its noticeably dimorphic stem and branch leaves, strongly serrate leaf apices, differentiated alar cells in an excavate group, erect and symmetric capsules, and strongly papillose spores. Heterophyllium amblystegum (Mitten) Y. Jia, S. He & Crosby is here validated and lectotypified along with a full description and a key to the Himalayan species of Heterophyllium.
10.2307/3393373|New rank is proposed for Epipactis humilior (Tang & Wang) S. C. Chen & G. Zhu and E. helleborine (L.) Crantz var. tangutica (Schlechter) S. C. Chen & G. Zhu. Epipactis humilior was formerly treated as a variety of E. mairei Schlechter, but distinctly differs from the latter by having a slender, creeping, elongated rhizome, ovate-lanceolate or lanceolate leaves 2-3 cm wide and scarcely or slightly scabrous adaxially. Epipactis helleborine var. tangutica is characterized by possessing on the epichile two much larger fleshy calli rather than small semiorbicular warty lamellae seen in E. helleborine.
10.2307/3391897|A new name in Peucedanum, a new variety of Ostericum scaberulum, and four new combinations in Meeboldia, Hydrocotyle, and Oenanthe are proposed. They are: Peucedanum franchetii C. Y. Wu & Pu, Ostericum scaberulum (Franchet) Yuan & Shan var. longiinvolucellatum C. Y. Wu & Pu, Meeboldia yunnanensis (H. Wolff) Constance & Pu, Hydrocotyle burmanica Kurz subsp. craibii (H. Eichler) C. Y. Wu & Pu, Oenanthe javanica (Blume) DC. subsp. rosthornii (Diels) Pu, and Oenanthe thomsonii C. B. Clarke subsp. stenophyllum (Boissieu) Pu.
41811667|Bauhinia tuichiensis Cayola & A. Fuentes es una especie nueva de Fabaceae coleccionada en bosque seco durante las expediciones de campo del Proyecto Inventario Florstico de la Regin Madidi en Bolivia. Adems de B. cookii Rose, B. tuichiensis es la segunda de 15 especies dentro de la serie Decandrae Wunderlin, K. Larsen & S. S. Larsen (tribu Cercideae Bronn, seccin Amaria (S. Mutis ex Caldas) Endl.) que presenta flores amarillas. Bauhinia tuichiensis se diferencia de B. cookii, la especie morfolgicamente ms emparentada, por tener inflorescencias densas (vs. laxas), con raquis corto de ca. 3 mm (vs. 10-15 mm); gineceo ms grande 7-10  1.5 mm (vs. 4-5  ca. 0.2 mm), ovario ovoide (vs.linear) y estigma capitado (vs. linear) ms ancho 1.5-2 mm (vs. ca. 0.2 mm). Bauhinia tuichiensis Cayola & A. Fuentes is a new species of Fabaceae that was collected in dry forest during fieldwork for the Madidi Project in Bolivia. In addition to B. cookii Rose, B. tuichienis is the second species of 15 within the series Decandrae Wunderlin, K. Larsen & S. S. Larsen (tribu Cercideae Bronn, seccin Amaria (S. Mutis ex Caldas) Endl.) that has yellow flowers. Bauhinia tuichiensis differs from B. cookii, a morphologically more closely related species, having dense inflorescences (vs. lax) with short rachis ca. 3 mm (vs. 10-15 mm), larger gynoecium 7-10  1.5 mm (vs. 4-5  ca. 0.2 mm), ovoid ovary (vs. linear), and stigma capitate (vs. linear), wider at 1.5-2 mm (vs. ca. 0.2 mm).
10.2307/3392184|Omphalea ankaranensis, a shrub endemic to limestone karst hills of northern Madagascar, is described and illustrated. The species is closely related to Omphalea palmata Leandri of western Madagascar but differs in its entire to coarsely crenate-dentate leaf blade margins, broader inflorescence bracts, lax cymules, and shorter pistillate flower pedicels. The new combination Omphalea oppositifolia (Willdenow) L. J. Gillespie is made for the widely distributed rainforest species of eastern Madagascar, previously known as Omphalea biglandulosa Persoon. A synopsis including new lectotypifications and a key to the four Madagascan species of Omphalea is provided.
3393444| Begonia phuthoensis H. Q. Nguyen (sect. Coelocentrum), a new species from Phu Tho and Thanh Hoa Provinces (Vietnam), is described and illustrated for Begoniaceae. Begonia cavaleriei H. Lveill (sect. Diploclinium), a species previously known only from China, is reported for the first time from Vietnam. 
10.2307/3392078|Recent plant collecting and exploration in Palawan, Philippines, led to the rediscovery of a Microrphium (Gentianaceae) species that had not been validly published. The Palawan species, M. elmerianum, extends the distribution range of the genus, which is known previously from the Malay Peninsula and Thailand. The biogeographic significance of this finding, as well as its significance to the conservation needs of Palawan's unique plant diversity, are briefly discussed.
10.2307/3392261|Carex radfordii Gaddy is a new species of Carex sect. Laxiflorae from the southern Appalachian Mountains of North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia. It is a robust species most closely allied to Carex purpurifera Mackenzie and Carex laxiflora Lamarck. Its long awns, glaucous blue-green blades, and brownish white basal sheaths distinguish it from other species of Carex.
23018492|Two new species of Aristolochia (Aristolochiaceae), A. ledongensis Han Xu, Y. D. Li & H. J. Yang and A. jianfenglingensis Han Xu, Y. D. Li & H. Q. Chen, are described and illustrated from Hainan Island, China. Aristolochia ledongensis differs from the similar A. championii Merr. & Chun and A. bambusifolia C. F. Liang ex H. Q. Wen by having the exterior of the calyx yellow (vs. yellowish green), a smaller basal portion of the calyx tube (1516  4.5 5 mm vs. 3070  710 mm), a narrower calyx limb (0.50.7 cm vs. 1.56 cm wide), and a shorter peduncle (0.71 cm vs. 1.85 cm). Aristolochia jianfenglingensis differs from the similar A. championii and A. bambusifolia by having the stems glabrous (vs. densely villous), the exterior of the calyx light red-brown (vs. yellowish green), a smaller basal portion of the calyx tube (2326  56 mm vs. 3070  710 mm), and a narrower calyx limb (0.80.9 cm vs. 1.56 cm wide). Aristolochia championii and A. bambusifolia have densely villous stems; the exterior of the calyx is yellowish green, with a larger basal portion of the calyx tube (> 30  ca. 10 mm); the calyx limb is discoid and more than 15 mm wide; and the peduncle is longer than 18 mm. Both new taxa are assessed as Vulnerable (VU D2) according to IUCN Red List criteria.
10.2307/3391687|Erysimum hedgeanum is a new name proposed to replace the later homonym that would result from the transfer of Arabidopsis erysimoides to Erysimum.
10.2307/3393258| Pinus fragilissima Businsk (Pinaceae), a new species of Pinus subg. Pinus, is described from southeastern Taiwan. Comprised of trees with very sparse crown and fragile, symmetrical, 6-9 cm long cones with often flat apophyses, it appears to be most closely related to P. luchuensis Mayr, endemic to the Nansei Islands, and to P. taiwanensis Hayata. The latter is circumscribed here as a Taiwan endemic with the exclusion of superficially similar but probably unrelated mainland Chinese pines. These three allied species are classified here as the sole representatives of Pinus subg. Pinus ser. Luchuenses E. Murray. 
3393431|Two new species, Aegiphila aracaensis from Brazil and A. hystricina from Venezuela, are described and illustrated, and their relationships with allied species are discussed. Aegiphila aracaensis shares morphological similarities with A. venezuelensis Moldenke, although it differs in leaf shape, length, and width, and in the corolla tube externally covered by a denser canescent indument. Aegiphila hystricina is a shrub to small tree distinguished by its congested elongate inflorescences, and the flowers subtended by three bracteoles covered by glandular trichomes, 8- to 10-septate. The species is related to Aegiphila arcta Moldenke, but differs from it in leaf shape, length, and width, petiolate leaves, and larger glandular trichomes.
10.2307/3391741|A new species of cycad, Ceratozamia alvarezii (Zamiaceae) from Chiapas, is described and illustrated. This species has affinities with C. matudai from Chiapas and C. sabatoi from Queretaro and Hidalgo. It differs from these species with regard to trunk, leaf habit, and male and female cones. It differs from C. norstogii, also from Chiapas, in that the latter is a much larger unbranched plant with a spirally twisting leaf rachis. /// Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie, Ceratozamia alvarezii (Zamiaceae). Esta especie presenta afinidad con C. matudai y C. sabatoi de Queretaro e Hidalgo. Esta especie difiere de las anteriores por la hoja, hbito de los estrbilos y morfologa del tronco. Tambin difiere de C. norstogii dado que la ltima es una planta ms grande, no ramificada y la rquis torcida espiralmente.
10.2307/3393380|The new section Pterosperma in Passiflora subg. Decaloba (Passifloraceae) is described from southern Mexico and Central America on the basis of leaf, inflorescence, seed, and fruit morphology. Species in this section are the sole hosts of the specialized herbivore Eueides lineata (Heliconidae). A morphological key to its four species is given, and two species, Passiflora lancetillensis and P. pedicellaris, are newly described and illustrated.
27765231|An additional subspecies and two new varieties of Rosa woodsii Lindl. (Rosaceae) are recognized in western North America. Rosa woodsii subsp. puberulenta (Rydb.) W. H. Lewis & Ertter, characterized by an open habit and moderately curved prickles, is the predominant bottomland subspecies occurring in the Colorado Plateau of Colorado, Utah, Arizona, Nevada, New Mexico, and Wyoming. Atypical unarmed populations of R. woodsii subsp. arizonica (Rydb.) W. H. Lewis & Ertter endemic to Oak Creek Canyon in the Mogollon Rim region of Coconino County, Arizona, are described as R. woodsii var. ertterae W. H. Lewis. The new combination R. woodsii var. arizonica (Rydb.) W. H. Lewis is provided for the remainder of R. woodsii subsp. arizonica. A key to the six subspecies of R. woodsii is provided.
20406271|New fruiting collections made since the publication of an account of Iridaceae for Flora Zambesiaca in 1993 show that spring-flowering plants until now referred to Gladiolus crassifolius Baker are better treated as a separate species, the earliest name for which is G. mosambicensis Baker. It is distinguished by the slightly smaller flowers, dry, obtuse floral bracts, and round, broadly winged seeds; G. crassifolius has green, acute bracts and wedge- to pear-shaped seeds with the wing fully developed at one or both ends but not on the sides. In addition, plants from northern Zimbabwe provisionally referred to G. permeabilis subsp. edulis (Burchell ex Ker Gawler) Obermeyer in the Flora Zambesiaca account of the genus do not belong in this species and are here described as G. metallicola Goldblatt. This plant, a member of section Hebea (Persoon) Bentham & Hooker f., remains known from one collection from the Great Dyke in Lomagundi District. Gladiolus L., the largest genus of the Iridaceae in the flora, now has 39 species in the Flora Zambesiaca region alone, and a total of 254 species worldwide.
10.2307/3391699|Cynoglossum macrocalycinum from Xinjiang, China, is described as new, and its distinguishing characters from the other species of the genus are given. The new combinations C. furcatum var. villosulum and Hackelia difformis are proposed.
40856309|We describe Passiora madidiana P. Jrg., Cayola & Araujo-Murakami (Passifloraceae) as new from Bolivia. It belongs to Passiflora L. subg. Passiflora and is probably closely related to P. crassifolia Killip, P. mapiriensis Harms, P. actinia Hook., and P. jilekii Wawra. The material was collected during a floristic inventory project of the dry forest within the Madidi National Park. We presume the species to be endemic to these highly seasonal and isolated dry forests that surround the upper part of the Rio Tuichi within the Madidi National Park. Describimos a Passiflora madidiana P. Jrg., Cayola & Araujo-Murakami como una especie nueva, que pertenece a Passiflora L. subg. Passiflora y es probablemente cercana a P. crassifolia Killip, P. mapiriensis Harms, P. actinia Hook, y P. jilekii Wawra. El material fue colectado durante el inventario florstico del bosque seco en el Parque Nacional Madidi. Presumimos que esta especie es endmica de estos bosques secos estacionales y aislados que estn en los alrededores de la parte alta del ro Tuichi dentro el Parque Nacional Madidi.
43289114|Two new species of Dracaena Vand. ex L. (Asparagaceae, Nolinoideae) from Central Africa are here described and illustrated. Dracaena longipetiolata Mwachala & Eb. Fisch, from Gabon is distinguished from D. phrynioides Hook, by its long petioles and elliptic leaves. Dracaena litoralis Mwachala & Eb. Fisch, is described from Cameroon and also occurs in Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, and Congo-Brazzaville. This new taxon differs from D. braunii Engl. by its smaller flowers whose perianth lobes are shorter than the tube. The identity of D. braunii is discussed and its affinity with D. litoralis analyzed.
3393463|Work in progress for the Lauraceae volume of the Flora of China has yielded one undescribed species and several new synonyms. In this contribution, a new species, Actinodaphne menghaiensis J. Li, is described from Yunnan, Southwest China, and its affinities are discussed. Four new synonyms are proposed: Litsea garrettii Gamble, L. euosma W. W. Smith, L. atrata S. Lee, L. magnoliifolia Yang & P. H. Huang for L. martabanica (Kurz) Hooker f., L. mollis Hemsley, L. salicifolia (Nees) Hooker f., L. semecarpifolia (Nees) Hooker f., respectively. Lectotypes are designated for Litsea garrettii Gamble, L. mollis Hemsley, and L. euosma W. W. Smith.
10.2307/3391985|Triniochloa gracilis, a new species from the Sierra Madre del Sur in the Mexican states of Guerrero and Oaxaca, is described and illustrated. The new species is distinguished from all other species of the genus by its narrow panicles and short, equal glumes. A key to all of the known species of the genus is provided. /// Se describe e ilustra como especie nueva a Triniochloa gracilis, proveniente de los estados de Guerrero y Oaxaca en la Sierra Madre del Sur. La nueva especie es distinguida de todas las otras especies del gnero por las panculas estrechas y las glumas cortas e iguales. Se presenta una clave para todas las especies conocidas del gnero.
3393422| Fourteen new species of the genus Gonolobus (Apocynaceae, Asclepiadoideae) from Mexico and Central America are described and illustrated. Gonolobus asterias, G. hammelii, G. truncatifolius, G. ustulatus, and G. variabilis are endemic to Costa Rica. Gonolobus grayumii is from Costa Rica and adjacent Panama and G. hadrostemma is from Costa Rica and adjacent Nicaragua. Gonolobus albiflorus, G. croceus, and G. sandersii are from western Mexico. Gonolobus pallidus is from southern Mexico and G. exannulatus is from southern Mexico and Guatemala. Gonolobus ancoriferus is found in southeastern Mexico and Honduras and G. cuajayote is found in southern Mexico, El Salvador, and Nicaragua. /// Se describen e ilustran catorce nuevas especies del gnero Gonolobus (Apocynaceae, Asclepiadoideae) de Mxico y Centroamrica. Gonolobus asterias, G. hammelii, G. truncatifolius, G. ustulatus, y G. variabilis son especies endmicas de Costa Rica. Gonolobus grayumii es de Costa Rica y Panam y G. hadrostemma es de Costa Rica y Nicaragua. Gonolobus albiflorus, G. croceus, y G. sandersii son del oeste de Mxico. Gonolobus pallidus es del sur de Mxico y G. exannulatus es del sur de Mxico y Guatemala. Gonolobus ancoriferus se encuentra en el sureste de Mxico y en Honduras y G. cuajayote se encuentra en el sur de Mxico, El Salvador y Nicaragua. 
10.2307/3393191|The new species Palicourea awa, P. clerodendroides, P. cogolloi, P. eburnea, P. garcioides, and P. glandulifera are described and illustrated, and the variety P. justicioides var. macrocalyx M. C. G. Kirkbride is recognized as a species, P. kirkbrideae. These are all shrubs or small trees found in wet forests at 900-3040 m in Colombia and northwestern Ecuador. /// Las especies nuevas Palicourea awa, P. clerodendroides, P. cogolloi, P. eburnea, P. garcioides y P. glandulifera se describen e ilustran, y la variedad P. justicioides var. macrocalyx M. C. G. Kirkbride se trata como una especie, P. kirkbrideae. Todas estas especies son arbustos o rboles pequeos de bosque hmedo a 900-3040 m en Colombia y el noroeste de Ecuador.
20406353|Paris stigmatosa Shu-dong Zhang (Melanthiaceae) is described and illustrated from northeastern Yunnan, China. The new species was found growing in wet habitats under bamboo thickets on Yaoshan Mountain of Qiaojia County. The new species is very similar to P. polyphylla Smith, from which it differs by having fewer subsessile leaves (four to six), 3-merous flowers, and stigmas 21-34 mm long. A key to the new species and sympatric species is given, and their similarities are discussed.
10.2307/3393516|Two new species, Rhododendron dayaoshanense L. M. Gao & D. Z. Li from Guangxi, southern China, and Rhododendron longilobum L. M. Gao & D. Z. Li from Yunnan, southwestern China, are described and illustrated here. Rhododendron dayaoshanense, known only from Dayaoshan Mountain, Guangxi, is distinguished by the following characters: the leaves narrowly oblanceolate or oblong-lanceolate, short setose on undersurface and midrib, petiole densely glandular setose, pedicel densely gray-puberulent and glandular-pilose as well as ovary densely flavescent-tomentose. Rhododendron longilobum is collected only from Daweishan Mountain, southeast Yunnan, and is distinguished from its close relatives by the characters of the leaf blades with prominent lateral primary veins on both surfaces, calyx lobes membranaceous, linear, linear-lingulate or narrowly triangular, and 0.5-2 cm long; ovary densely flavescent tomentose and truncate at the apex.
10.2307/3391670|Leucoloma crosbyi, a new species from northern Madagascar, is described, resulting from a revision of the pantropical genus. Diagnostic characters include: robust habit; narrow, opaque, juxtacostal bands tapering to basal region; costal-laminal transition zone with 2-9 multi- to bistratose rows; interior cells forming broad scarious region; narrow hyaline margin; and longitudinally thick-walled alar cells. It is most closely related to L. grandidieri Ren. & Card, and has been confused with L. talazaccii Ren. & Card.
10.2307/3393046|Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie del gnero Monophyllanthe, M. araracuarensis S. Surez, Galeano & H. Kennedy (Marantaceae) de la Amazonia colombiana y la brasilea adyacente. Esta es la segunda especie descrita para el gnero, previamente conocido solo de Guyana Francesa y Surinam. La nueva especie se distingue principalmente por su inflorescencia esparcidamente ramificada, con 3 a 7 brcteas por rama, producida en un brote sin hojas que sale directamente del rizoma. /// A new species of Monophyllanthe, M. araracuarensis S. Surez, Galeano & H. Kennedy (Marantaceae) from Amazonian Colombia and adjacent Brazil, is described and illustrated. This is the second species described in the genus, which was previously known only from French Guiana and Suriname. The new species is characterized by its sparsely branched inflorescence, with 3 to 7 bracts per branch, borne on a separate, leafless shoot directly from the rhizome.
10.2307/3391610|A disjunct population of Cryosophila recently discovered in the Colombian Choc is morphologically quite distinct from previously described Cryosophila species. Unique to the genus are its large fruits with large, deeply furrowed seeds. This new Cryosophila, C. macrocarpa, appears to be most closely allied to C. guagara of the Golfo Dulce area of Costa Rica and adjacent Panama.
3393419| The new species Tibouchina rubrobracteata belongs to section Pleroma D. Don. It is distinguished from related species by the presence of larger bracteoles than those usually found in section Pleroma, glabrous staminal filaments and style, the hypanthium not constricted at the apex, and a globose fruit. This species occurs in highland "campo rupestre" vegetation in the Serra da Canastra National Park in the state of Minas Gerais, an important center of endemism in Brazil. /// A espcie nova Tibouchina rubrobracteata pertence  seo Pleroma D. Don.  distinta das espcies prximas pela presena de bractolas maiores que o usualmente encontrado na seo Pleroma, filetes e estilete glabros, hipanto no constrito no pice e fruto globoso. Esta espcie ocorre nos campos rupestres do Parque Nacional da Serra da Canastra, no estado de Minas Gerais, um importante centro de endemismo. 
3393341|In preparation for the treatment of Myrcia (Myrtaceae) for Flora Mesoamericana, the new combination Myrcia zetekiana (Standley) B. Holst is required.
20406301|Juncus paludosus E. L. Bridges & Orzell is described and illustrated as a new species from peninsular Florida, U.S.A., occurring primarily in hardwood and cypress swamps and adjacent ditches and marshes. Although closest in diagnostic characters to J. megacephalus M. A. Curtis, it has been confused with J. polycephalus Michaux of section Iridifolii Snogerup & Kirschner based on its overall size, gross morphology, and floral characteristics. Differences between J. paludosus and other closely related species of section Ozophyllum Dumortier are discussed, and a key is provided to the group within section Ozophyllum that includes J. paludosus.
10.2307/3391997|Clerodendrum L. s.l. subg. Cyclonema (Hochstetter) Guerke plus Clerodendrum sect. Konocalyx Verdcourt (subg. Clerodendrum pro parte) are recognized as a distinct genus, for which the earliest name is Rotheca Rafinesque. The new combinations Rotheca commiphoroides (Verdcourt) Steane & Mabberley, Rotheca makanjana (H. Winkler) Steane & Mabberley, Rotheca myricoides (Hochstetter) Steane & Mabberley, Rotheca incisa (Klotzsch) Steane & Mabberley, Rotheca sansibarensis (Guerke) Steane & Mabberley, Rotheca sansibarensis subsp. occidentalis (Verdcourt) Steane & Mabberley, Rotheca sansibarensis subsp. caesia (Guerke) Steane & Mabberley, and Rotheca serrata (L.) Steane & Mabberley are made.
10.2307/3391611|Recent expeditions in the Venezuelan Guayana have resulted in additional new taxa in Justicia (Acanthaceae). The following places these novelties and new combinations on record for the convenience of other taxonomists prior to the publication of the Flora of the Venezuelan Guayana. Nine new Venezuelan species of Justicia, J. breteleri, J. delascioi, J. huberi, J. monachinoi, J. nuriana, J. panarensis, J. parimensis, J. paruana, and J. uvida, are described, illustrated, and compared with their closest relatives. In addition, two new combinations, J. paraguazensis and J. moritziana, are also necessary. A key to all of the known species of Justicia from the region (Territorio Federal Delta Amacuro, Estado Bolvar, and Territorio Federal Amazonas) is also provided.
10.2307/3392006|Two new combinations are made in Madhuca: M. krabiensis (Aubrville) P. Chantaranothai and M. lecomtei (Aubrville) P. Chantaranothai.
10.2307/3391680|A new species, Aegiphila narinensis (Verbenaceae), from La Planada Reserve, Colombia, is described, and its affinities are discussed. The new species has mucronate calyx lobes, and the corolla is larger than in any other species in the genus and has a curved tube. This name is needed to complete the botanical list of plants collected at La Planada Reserve being compiled by Olga de Benavides and Alwyn Gentry.
10.2307/3391977|Macromitrium crosbyorum sp. nov., M. echinatum sp. nov., M. frustratum sp. nov., M. picobonitum sp. nov., and M. sejunctum sp. nov. are described based on Central American material. A key to the species of Macromitrium in Central America is given. The 30 Central American species of Macromitrium are arranged into 7 informal groups.
40300894|In this paper, we provide corrections to a recent synoptical revision of the family Onagraceae (Wagner et al., 2007). The first valid publication of subfamily Onagroideae was in 1834 by Eaton, and not in 2007 by Wagner et al. We correct the authorship and place of publication of Camissonia contorta (Douglas) P. H. Raven, Chylismia scapoidea (Torrey & A. Gray) Nuttall ex Raimann, and Camissonia chamaenerioides (A. Gray) P. H. Raven. We correct the authorship and typification of Oenothera suffulta (Engelmann ex A. Gray) W. L. Wagner & Hoch, as well as the typification of Chylismia claviformis subsp. lancifolia (A. Heller) W. L. Wagner & Hoch. Our new genus Holmgrenia W. L. Wagner & Hoch is a later homonym of a name validly published by S. 0. Lindberg in 1863. We propose the replacement name of Neoholmgrenia W. L. Wagner & Hoch to correct this problem, and make the two species-level combinations, TV. andina (Nuttall) W. L. Wagner & Hoch, and N. hilgardii (Greene) W. L. Wagner & Hoch.
20406217|With the recent taxonomic review of Chaetostoma DC., it was found that six species did not present the set of diagnostic features established to delimit the genus. Chaetostoma is characterized by sessile, keeled to subkeeled, overlapping, acute leaves and a trichome crown on the external apex of the length of the hypanthium. Three species of Chaetostoma are transferred to Microlicia D. Don: M. acuminata Naudin (C. acuminatum (Naudin) Cogniaux), M. castrata Naudin (C. castratum (Naudin) Cogniaux), and M. oxyanthera Naudin (C. oxyantherum (Naudin) Triana). Two new names are also proposed: M. baumgratziana A. B. Martins & Koschnitzke (C. gardneri Triana) and M. semiriana Koschnitzke & A. B. Martins (C. luetzelburgii Markgraf). The new combination M. parvula (Markgraf) Koschnitzke & A. B. Martins (C. parvulum Markgraf) is provided. The name M. oxyanthera Naudin is lectotypified herein. /// A recente reviso taxonmica de Chaetostoma DC. revelou que seis espcies no exibem as caractersticas diagnsticas estabelecidas para delimitar o gnero. Chaetostoma  caracterizado por apresentar folhas ssseis, carenadas a subcarenadas, imbricadas, pungentes, e coroa de tricomas no pice externo do hipanto. Trs espcies de Chaetostoma esto sendo transferidas para Microlicia D. Don: M. acuminata Naudin (C. acuminatum (Naudin) Cogniaux), M. castrata Naudin (C. castratum (Naudin) Cogniaux), e M. oxyanthera Naudin (C. oxyantherum (Naudin) Triana). Dois novos nomes esto tambm sendo propostos: M. baumgratziana A. B. Martins & Koschnitzke (C. gardneri Triana) e M. semiriana Koschnitzke & A. B. Martins (C. luetzelburgii Markgraf). A nova combinao M. parvula (Markgraf) Koschnitzke & A. B. Martins (C. parvulum Markgraf)  fornecida. O nome M. oxyanthera Naudin  aqui lectotipificado.
10.2307/3393042|The new combinations Pennellia microsperma and P. tricornuta are proposed for Arabis microsperma and A. tricornuta, which are narrowly endemic species from Chihuahua, Mexico, and southern Arizona. The distinguishing features and geographic distribution of the genus Pennellia are discussed, and a synopsis and key to the 11 currently recognized species are presented.
10.2307/3391772|Parathesis costaricensis, P. glendae, and P. longipedicellata are described and illustrated, and their phylogenetic relationships are discussed. A key is provided to separate the new species. In addition, a new combination is made for Parathesis sinuata (from Colombia), and P. amazonica Mez is lectotypified.
43288948|A new species of Aulonemia Goudot (Poaceae) is formally described here from the Distrito Federal and Gois in central Brazil. Aulonemia xerophylla P. L. Viana & Filg., known from gallery forests in the Cerrado, has deflexed and coriaceous leaf blades and awnless spikelets as diagnostic characters. Descriptions and illustrations of macromorphological and anatomical characters of the new species are provided, as well as comments on its IUCN conservation status of Endangered (EN). Urna nova especie de Aulonemia Goudot (Poaceae), nativa do Distrito Federal e Gois, Brasil,  aqui formalmente descrita. Aulonemia xerophylla P. L. Viana & Filg., conhecida de matas de galera em Cerrado no Brasil central, possui, como caracteres diagnticos, lminas foliares coriceas e deflexas e espiguetas mticas. Sao apresentadas descrioes e ilustraoes de caracteres mofolgicos e anatmicos da nova especie assim como seu status de conservaao, ameaada, de acordo com os criterios da IUCN.
10.2307/3393211|Two new species of passionflower vine (Passiflora, Passifloraceae) from southwestern and southern Mexico are described and illustrated. Passiflora mcvaughiana and P. manantlanensis, both in subgenus Decaloba (DC.) Reichenbach, belong to sections Cieca (Medikus) DC. and Decaloba, respectively. This brings the number of named native species of Passiflora recognized in Mexico to 68, with 21 native to the southwestern area known as Nueva Galicia.
23018494|The results of morphological observation and principal component analysis indicate that Groutiella laxotorquata (Mll. Hal. ex Besch.) Wijk & Margad. is conspecific with G. tomentosa (Hornsch.) Wijk & Margad. Furthermore, the names G. tomentosa, G. laxotorquata, and G. pobeguinii (Paris & Broth.) Wijk & Margad. are lectotypified.
10.2307/3392024|Paepalanthus humilis, known only from Piat, Bahia, Brazil, is described and illustrated. Its placement in Paepalanthus sect. Actinocephalus is clear, due to flowers and inflorescence features. The species is compared to P. bahiensis (Bongard) Kunth, P. brachypus (Bongard) Kunth, P. ciliatus (Bongard) Kunth, and P. ochrocephalus Koernicke, the species most similar to it. /// Paepalanthus humilis  descrita e ilustrada.  includa em Paepalanthus sect. Actinocephalus por caractersticas das flores e inflorescncias. A espcie  comparada com P. bahiensis (Bongard) Kunth, P. brachypus (Bongard) Kunth, P. ciliatus (Bongard) Kunth e P. ochrocephalus Koernicke, as espcies mais prximas. Paepalanthus humilis  conhecida, at o momento, somente de Piat, Bahia, Brasil.
10.2307/3393204|A new species of Encholirium from the campos rupestres of Minas Gerais, Brazil, is described and illustrated. Encholirium reflexum is a distinctive taxon characterized by reflexed leaves, imbricate petals and sepals, as well as style and stamens included in the corolla tube. The most closely related species is E. pedicellatum (Mez) Rauh, which can be distinguished by its higher number of leaves per rosette, flowers with short pedicels, and suborbicular and imbricate sepals. /// Uma nova espcie de Encholirium procedente dos campos rupestres de Minas Gerais, Brasil  descrita e ilustrada. Encholirium reflexum caracteriza-se por apresentar folhas reflexas, ptalas e spalas imbricadas, estames e estilete inclusos no tubo da corola. Difere de E. pedicellatum (Mez) Rauh por possuir um nmero muito maior de folhas por roseta, pelas flores com pedicelos reduzidos e spalas suborbiculares e imbricadas.
10.2307/3393028|The new species Cardamine gouldii is described and illustrated from Bhutan. Its distinguishing characters and relationship to the closely related Himalayan C. violacea and C. nepalensis are discussed. This last species is reported for the first time from Sikkim.
40960820|Following a recent revision of the Ocotea indecora (Schott) Meisn. ex Mez group (Lauraceae), some taxonomic and nomenclatural changes have been made. We present here the resulting synonyms, together with typifications, and one new combination. Seven new synonyms are proposed. The following seven names are lectotypified: Mespilodaphne indecora (Schott) Meisn. var. cannella Meisn., M. indecora var. intermedia Meisn., M. indecora var. laxa Meisn., M. indecora var. stricta Meisn., O. complicata (Meisn.) Mez, O. elegans Mez, and O. fasciculata (Nees) Mez. Mespilodaphne leucophloea Nees & Mart, is transferred as O. leucophloea (Nees & Mart.) L. C. S. Assis & Mello-Silva. Seguindo uma reviso recente do grupo Ocotea indecora (Schott) Meisn. ex Mez (Lauraceae), algumas mudanas taxonmicas e nomenclaturais tm sido feitas. Ns apresentamos aqui os sinnimos resultantes, juntos com tipificaes e uma combinao nova. Sete sinnimos novos so propostos. Os sete nomes seguintes so lectotipificados: Mespilodaphne indecora (Schott) Meisn. var. cannella Meisn., M. indecora var. intermedia Meisn., M. indecora var. laxa Meisn., M. indecora var. stricta Meisn., O. complicata (Meisn.) Mez, O. elegans Mez e O. fasciculata (Nees) Mez. Mespilodaphne leucophloea Nees & Mart.  transferido como O. leucophloea (Nees & Mart.) L. C. S. Assis & Mello-Silva.
43288938|A complete description of Esenbeckia cowanii Kaastra (Rutaceae) is presented, including new details for floral morphology. The original type of this taxon included only fruiting material, thus we designate an epitype with flowers. In addition, we provide taxonomic emendation to E. cowanii, including its leaf morphology variation, details of the fruit and seed, and an update of its geographic distribution.
10.2307/3391820|This paper is a precursor to the account of the Asclepiadaceae in the Flora of China. A new genus and species, Sichuania alterniloba, is described. Twenty-four new species are described in Biondia (B. crassipes, B. laxa, B. parviurnula, B. revoluta, and B. tsiukowensis), Ceropegia (C. sinoerecta), Cynanchum (C. bicampanulatum, C. brevicoronatum, C. duclouxii, C. kingdonwardii, C. longipedunculatum, C. megalanthum, C. pingshanicum, C. rockii, and C. sinoracemosum), Hoya (H. commutata and H. mekongensis), Marsdenia (M. brachyloba, M. tenii, and M. yuei), and Tylophora (T. forrestii, T. rockii, T. tuberculata, and T. uncinata). Jasminanthes is resurrected. Eleven new combinations are proposed in Ceropegia (C. exigua), Cynanchum (C. boudieri subsp. caudatum), Heterostemma (H. menghaiense), Hoya (H. chinghungensis), Jasminanthes (J. chunii, J. mucronata, J. pilosa, and J. saxatilis), and Tylophora (T. costantiniana, T. oligophylla, and T. tsiangii). The new name Cynanchum triangulare is proposed to replace C. deltoideum Hooker, not Hance. New synonymy is proposed in Cynanchum, Lygisma, Marsdenia, and Tylophora. The status of Merrillanthus is discussed.
10.2307/3391697|Studies of the vegetation of Parque Nacional Natural "Las Orqudeas" and surrounding areas, located at the junction of Antioquia and Choc departments, on the western slopes of the Cordillera Occidental, have revealed two new species of Ardisia Swartz. These species, Ardisia mcphersonii and A. cardenasii, are described and illustrated, and their phylogenetic relationships are discussed. Another new species, A. pluvialis, from the Choc Floristic Province of northwestern Ecuador at the foothills of the western slope of the Cordillera Occidental, is also described and illustrated, and a key to distinguish it from its two most closely related congeners is provided.
10.2307/3391522|Populations until now treated as Anomatheca laxa that occur along the coast of northern Natal and southern Mozambique are referred to a new subspecies azurea. These plants differ in their pale blue perianth with dark blue to violet markings and in their generally smaller flowers with a fairly long perianth tube. Subspecies azurea flowers in the cool months, June to mid-September, and is restricted to sandy soils, unlike typical red- to pink-flowered subspecies laxa, which flowers mainly from November to February, and is largely montane, favoring rocky sites.
10.2307/3393015|Two new species from the family Asteraceae, tribe Astereae, were collected during botanical investigations in the Ecuadorian Andes. Oritrophium llanganatense Sklen & H. Robinson and Floscaldasia azorelloides Sklen & H. Robinson are here described and illustrated. Oritrophium llanganatense is distinct from other species of the genus by a combination of abaxially lanate leaves with outer phyllaries narrowly ovate to oblong. Floscaldasia azorelloides differs from the other species of the genus by its three-lobed leaves. The two species inhabit the upper superpramo and are restricted to remote areas of the Ecuadorian Eastern Cordillera. /// Dos nuevas especies de la familia Asteraceae, tribu Astereae, se colectaron durante investigaciones botnicas en el superpramo del Ecuador. Las dos especies, Oritrophium llanganatense Sklen & H. Robinson y Floscaldasia azorelloides Sklen & H. Robinson, se describen e ilustran. Oritrophium llanganatense difiere de las otras especies del gnero por tener hojas lanosas abaxiadamente y brcteas exteriores ovadas a oblongas. Floscaldasia azorelloides difiere de las otras especies del gnero por tener las hojas trilobadas. Las especies se encuentran en el superpramo alto en reas remotas de la Cordillera Oriental del Ecuador.
10.2307/3391600|Se describen y se ilustran dos nuevas especies del gnero Nototriche: N. antoniana y N. peruviana. Caracteres morfolgicos, incluyendo una estuctura a manera de "corona," que las diferencian de las dems especies del gnero se presentan en una tabla. /// Two new species of the genus Nototriche are described and illustrated: N. antoniana and N. peruviana. Morphological characters, including a "corona"-like structure, which differentiate them from the other species in the genus, are presented in a Table.
20406133|The recently published name Isolepis tenella (L. f) Muasya & D. A. Simpson is illegitimate, because there exists an earlier homonym. A new name, I. levynsiana Muasya & D. A. Simpson, is proposed for Cyperus tenellus.
10.2307/3392048|A new species of Mollinedia from Costa Rica, M. macrophylla J. F. Morales & Q. Jimnez, is described and illustrated.
3393539| Swartzia barnebyana, a new legume species with a vining habit from the state of Amazonas in Venezuela, is described and illustrated. The new species belongs to section Possira, series Unifoliolatae, in which it is closely related to both S. floribunda Spruce ex Bentham and S. iniridensis R. S. Cowan, by its intramarginally interconnected primary veins and its densely strigulose-velutinous pubescence on branchlets, inflorescence axes, and external calyx segments. Swartzia barnebyana may be distinguished from both related species mainly by the type and color of the ovary pubescence, shape and size of leaflet blades, number of calyx segments, and absence of pubescence in the internal surface of the calyx. /// Se describe e ilustra Swartzia barnebyana, una especie nueva de leguminosa con hbito trepador del estado Amazonas, Venezuela. La especie nueva pertenece a la seccin Possira, serie Unifoliolatae dentro de la cual se relaciona estrechamente con S. floribunda Spruce ex Bentham y S. iniridensis R. S. Cowan por las venas primarias interconectadas intramarginalmente y la pubescencia densamente estrigulosa-velutina sobre ramitas, eje de las inflorescencias y segmentos externos del cliz. Swartzia barnebyana se distingue de las especies relacionadas, principalmente por el tipo y color de la pubescencia en el ovario, la forma y tamao de la lmina de los fololos, el nmero de segmentos del cliz y la ausencia de pubescencia en la superficie interna del cliz. 
10.2307/3391409|Cacabus flavus is transferred to the genus Exodeconus.
3393484|Ruyschia andina, a new species found on the eastern slopes of the Andes in Ecuador. Peru, and Bolivia at altitudes of around 2000 m. is described and illustrated. The species is distinguished from the other species of the genus by the leaves with two conspicuous rows of numerous hypophyllous glands and the 3(or 4)-loculed ovary. The relationship between Ruyschia and Souroubea is discussed, and a generic key is given.
10.2307/3391577|The name Prasophyllum correctum D. L. Jones replaces P. chasmogamum R. Bates & D. L. Jones, the latter being based on an incorrect selection of a type.
20406272|Three new closely related species of Eleocharis R. Brown (Cyperaceae) from Andean pramos are described from Colombia: E. fassettii S. Gonzlez & P. M. Peterson, E. cuatrecasii S. Gonzlez & P. M. Peterson, and E. moraosejoana S. Gonzlez, C. Ulloa & P. M. Jrgensen. They all belong to Eleocharis subgen. Eleocharis, sect. Eleocharis, and differ from related species by a combination of characters, among which are the thin, loose upper sheath apices and the unusual achene shape that is conspicuously tapered toward the base and apex. /// Se describen tres nuevas especies de Eleocharis R. Brown (Cyperaceae) de Colombia: E. fassettii S. Gonzlez & P. M. Peterson, E. cuatrecasii S. Gonzlez & P. M. Peterson y E. moraosejoana S. Gonzlez, C. Ulloa & P. M. Jrgensen, conocidas solamente de pramos andinos. Todas forman parte de Eleocharis subgen. Eleocharis, secc. Eleocharis. Difieren de las especies relacionadas en una combinacin de caractersticas entre las que destaca el pice de la vaina superior delgado y laxo y la forma del aquenio, angostado hacia la base y el pice.
40300906|A new species of Cyanus Miller (Centaurea L. p. p.) (Asteraceae), C. eflanensis Kaya & Bancheva, is described and illustrated from Karabiik Province, Turkey. It belongs to Cyanus sect. Napuliferi (Stefanoff & T. Georgiev) Bancheva & Raimondo, and taxonomically its closest relative is C. thirkei (Schultz Bipontinus) Holub. The habitat and conservation status of the new species are presented, and the morphological characters distinguishing C. eflanensis and C. thirkei are analyzed and illustrated.
10.2307/3393560|A new species of Rhododendron sect. Vireya from Mount Jaya, West Papua (Irian Jaya), Indonesia, is described and illustrated. The new species, Rhododendron xenium Gillian Brown & Craven, is related to R. womersleyi and R. rubineiflorum, of subsection Euvireya, based on scale and corolla features and leaf size. An identification key to R. xenium and related species in subsection Euvireya is provided.
10.2307/3391892|A new species of the genus Ligusticum L., L. pseudodaucoides H. Peng & Yin Z. Wang, is described and illustrated. It was collected from the summit of the Wuliangshan Range in Jingdong County, south central Yunnan Province, China. Its affinity to L. daucoides is discussed, and habitat data are given.
27765225|The name Parodia leninghausii (F. Haage) F. H. Brandt (Cactaceae) is in common use for a widespread and easily grown plant, but no valid combination has ever been published. The missing combination P. lenninghausii (F. Haage) F. H. Brandt ex Eggli & Hofacker is published here, together with the designation of a lectotype and a note on the orthography of the name.
10.2307/3391917|Five new species and two varieties from Qinghai Province, China, are described, discussed, and compared with their closest presumed relatives. Cremanthodium microglossum (Asteraceae), Oxytropis qinghaiensis (Fabaceae), Comastoma jigzhiense (Gentianaceae), Gentiana clarkei var. lutescens (Gentianaceae), Parnassia qinghaiensis (Saxifragaceae), Pedicularis armata var. trimaculata (Scrophulariaceae), and Peristylus humidicolus (Orchidaceae). Two of the species are illustrated.
23018472|A new South American species of Solidago L. (Asteraceae, Astereae) from Argentina, Chile, and Bolivia was identified within the subsection Junceae (Rydb.) G. L. Nesom. Using multivariate analyses on a matrix of 50 characteristics for 79 specimens, the distinctiveness of a South American S. missouriensis-like taxon was tested and determined to be statistically different from four morphologically similar North American species: S. gattingeri Chapm. ex A. Gray, S. juncea Aiton, S. missouriensis Nutt., and S. pinetorum Small. Therefore, a new South American species is proposed: S. argentinensis Lopez Laph. & Semple.
20406079|During work for the Flora of Somalia account of Apocynaceae subfamily Asclepiadoideae, a new species of uncertain affinity was discovered. DNA analysis revealed that the new species, Calciphila gillettii Liede & Meve, is most closely related to the recently described Cynanchum galgalense Liede, which was only provisionally included in Cynanchum L. after DNA analysis. As the best taxonomic solution for the two species not fitting into any of the known genera of milkweeds, the description of a new genus, Calciphila Liede & Meve, is proposed. Also, in the course of work for the Flora of Somalia, it was realized that Cynanchum clavidens N. E. Brown needs to be renamed Cynanchum hastifolium K. Schumann if the two taxa are considered to constitute subspecies of the same species, because C. clavidens has previously been put into synonymy with C. hastifolium. Finally, work on the Flore des Seychelles brought to light that Cynanchum robertsoniae Liede is identical with the Indian C. callialatum Buchanan-Hamilton ex Wight, and needs to be placed in synonymy with the latter. A lectotype is designated for C. callialatum.
41811680|Clethra concordia D. A. Neill, H. Beltrn & Quizhpe (Clethraceae), a thin-stemmed shrub or treelet from the sandstone Machinaza plateau in the Cordillera del Cndor region on the Peru-Ecuador border, is described and illustrated. The new species is distinct from other species of Clethra L. in its small stature and its very small, thick sclerophyllous leaves, which are evidently an ecological adaptation to the highly acidic, nutrient-poor sandstone substrate where it occurs. Se describe y se ilustra Clethra concordia, D. A. Neill, H. Beltrn & Quizhpe (Clethraceae), un arbusto o arbolito con tallos delgados, procedente de la meseta de Machinaza, de roca arenisca, en la regin de la Cordillera del Cndor en la frontera entre Pen y Ecuador. La especie nueva se distingue de las dems especies de Clethra L. en su estatura pequea y en las hojas muy pequeas, gruesas y esclerfilas, las que evidentemente constituyen una adaptacin al substrato de arenisca muy cido y pobre en nutrientes, en donde se encuentra esta especie.
20406317|Lobelia lithophila Senterre & Castillo-Campos (Campanulaceae, Lobelioideae) is described as a new species from the lowland tropical evergreen rainforest of the region of Uxpanapa, in southern Veracruz, Mexico. This species is only known from the type locality and probably represents a microendemic. The species described is most closely related to L. orientalis Rzedowski & Caldern, another local endemic from Quertaro, Mexico. Both taxa combine the herbaceous life form with leaves more or less in a rosette at ground level and a completely superior ovary, and are from specialized habitats. The new species is easily distinguished by its longer leaf blade and smaller petiole, and by its reduced leaf pubescence. Its habitat is also unusual, as it is restricted to limestone rocks in the understory of lowland tropical rainforest. Lobelia lithophila belongs to subsection Leiospermae E. Wimmer within the section Lobelia, subgenus Lobelia L. /// Se describe como nueva especie para la ciencia a Lobelia lithophila Senterre & Castillo-Campos. Esta es una especie conocida solamente de la localidad tipo y probablemente corresponde a un taxa microendmico para la selva alta perennifolia de la zona de Uxpanapa al sur de Veracruz, Mxico. La especie aqu descrita esta ms relacionada con L. orientalis Rzedowski & Caldern, otro microendmico en este caso de Quertaro, las cuales se destacan por ser especies herbceas con hojas arrosetadas en el suelo con ovario totalmente spero y que tambin son de hbitats muy restringidos. Es fcil distinguir a la especie nueva por sus hojas grandes pero de pecolos pequeos, y por su pubescencia menos desarrollada. Asimismo, es una especie que se localiza en un hbitat especial, en sustratos rocosos calizos de bajas altitudes, en el sotobosque de la selva alta perennifolia. Esta especie pertenece a la subseccin Leiospermae E. Wimmer, seccin Lobelia del subgnero Lobelia L.
10.2307/3392263|Rhynchospora cabecarae Gmez-Laurito (Cyperaceae), a new species belonging to section Racemosae C. B. Clarke, is described and illustrated.
20406334|Two new species, Hesperis anatolica A. Duran and H. hamzaoglui A. Duran (Brassicaceae), are described and illustrated from Anatolia, Turkey. Hesperis anatolica grows in serpentine pebbly slopes and open pine forest and scrub in Pozant and Karsant (Adana province). It is closely related to H. persica Boissier, an endemic confined to South Anatolia. Hesperis hamzaoglui grows in granitic rocky sites in a forest-steppe ecotone from Zorkun Yayla (Osmaniye province). It is closely related to H. podocarpa Boissier, an endemic confined to the Amanos Mountains. Diagnostic morphological characters are discussed, as well as the ecology, biogeography, and conservation status of both new species. In addition, the pollen characteristics and seed coat surface of H. anatolica, H. persica, H. hamzaoglui, and H. podocarpa are examined by SEM. Hesperis anatolica is diploid with a new report of the chromosome number of 2n = 12.
3393449| Study of type material from the transvolcanic region of Mexico of two species of Oenothera sect. Hartmannia (tribe Onagreae, Onagraceae), currently known as Oenothera deserticola (Loesener) Munz and O. purpusii Munz, indicates that they represent the same species. Thus, the later name O. purpusii becomes a new synonym of O. deserticola. Also, a neotype is designated herein for O. deserticola. The only available name for the second species, previously incorrectly called O. deserticola, is Hartmannia montana Rose, but since O. montana is already occupied, a new name, O. orizabae, is here proposed. A previously unreported chromosome count of n = 7 is given for O. deserticola. While examining collections to resolve this problem, a series of specimens from the Sierra Madre Occidental was determined to represent a third species here described as O. luciae-julianiae. These three species can be distinguished by a suite of characters involving habit, petal color, and capsules. Oenothera deserticola is characterized by decumbent stems, morning-opening flowers, rose purple petals, and angled, but unwinged capsules with an attenuate apex, while O. luciae-julianiae has erect or ascending stems, evening-opening flowers, white petals, and narrowly winged capsules with an abruptly acuminate apex. Oenothera orizabae has decumbent stems, evening-opening flowers, white petals, and large-winged capsules with a rounded apex. /// El estudio de los tipos de Oenothera deserticola y O. purpusii de la seccin Oenothera seccin Hartmannia procedentes de la regin trasvolcnica de Mxico, indica que ambos representan la misma especie. Como resultado, O. purpusii es considerado sinnimo de O. deserticola. Una segunda especie, originalmente descrita como Hartmannia montana, pero cuyo epteto especfico est ocupado en Oenothera, es substituido por el nombre O. orizabae, el cual es aqu propuesto. El estudio de las colecciones procedentes de la Sierra Madre Occidental determin que existe una tercera especie, la cual es aqu descrita como O. luciae-julianiae. Estas tres especies pueden ser distinguidas por una serie de caracteres relacionados al hbito, color de ptalo y de las cpsulas. Oenothera deserticola es caracterizada por tallos decumbentes, flores de apertura matutina, ptalos purpreo-rosados y cpsulas angulosas, pteras y atenuadas hacia el pice, mientras que la especie de la Sierra Madre, aqu descrita como O. luciae-julianiae, tiene tallos erectos o ascendentes, flores que abren al anochecer, ptalos blancos y cpsulas estrechamente aladas con un pice abruptamente acuminado. Oenothera orizabae tiene tallos decumbentes, flores que abren al anochecer, ptalos blancos y cpsulas aladas, grandes, con el pice redondeado. 
10.2307/3392183|Four new species from Costa Rica are described and illustrated: Oncidium imitans, Ornithocephalus grex-anserinus, Paphinia subclausa, and Scaphyglottis atwoodii. The following new combinations are made: Encyclia peraltensis (Ames) Dressler, Reichenbachanthus subulatus (Schlechter) Dressler, Stellilabium lankesteri (Ames) Dressler, amd Trichosalpinx rotundata (C. Schweinfurth) Dressler.
27765244|Erigeron latifolius Hao Zhang & Z. F. Zhang (Asteraceae, Astereae), a new species of Erigeron L. from Sichuan, China, is described and illustrated. It is similar to E. multiradiatus (Lindl. ex DC.) Benth. ex C. B. Clark, but can be distinguished by features of the flowers and leaves. The capitula are small (1.22.5 cm); the anthers do not protrude beyond the corolla; the midcauline leaves are large (815  12.5 cm) and lanceolate to oblonglanceolate; and the distal leaves are lanceolate, dense, and not much reduced, but smaller (25  0.51 cm). The new species is endemic to China and is identified as Endangered (EN), according to IUCN Red List criteria.
10.2307/3391971|Encephalartos imbricans, a new species from Uganda, is described, illustrated, and circumscribed in terms of other tropical African arborescent species. It is a large arborescent plant, with leaflets mostly strongly incubously overlapping. The strobili are green and glabrous; the megastrobilus is ovoid, shortly pedunculate, with the surfaces of the bullae wrinkled; the microstrobili emerge in succession, being narrowly ovoid, longpedunculate, with the surfaces of the bullae smooth.
10.2307/3392104|Breutelia pilifera differs from all other species of Breutelia by its non-sheathing leaves that have costae excurrent into long, naked awns and reddish orange basal leaf cells across the leaf insertion. A key to the 14 species of Breutelia in Central America is given.
20406077|During the revision of Actinidiaceae for the Flora of China, two new combinations are proposed, Actinidia fulvicoma var. cinerascens (C. F. Liang) J. Q. Li & D. D. Soejarto and Saurauia polyneura var. paucinervis (C. F. Liang & Y. S. Wang) J. Q. Li & D. D. Soejarto.
10.2307/3392027|The taxon most recently known as Oenothera avita W. Klein subsp. arizonica (Munz) Klein is here elevated to species level. It is easily distinguished from the perennial taxa of this complex, currently treated as three subspecies of O. californica, by its annual habit with a taproot, stems thickened near the base and tapering toward the apex, buds with conspicuous purple spots, each spot at the base of a long hair, longer attenuate capsules, and pinnatifid leaves.
20406152|Cousinia aligudarzensis Attar & Ghahreman (Asteraceae), a new species of section Cynaroides Bunge (as "Cynaroideae") is described and illustrated. The distinguishing characters of section Cynaroides and those separating the new species from its nearest relative are discussed.
10.2307/3393134|Faramea zamorensis, a new species from Costa Rica, is described and illustrated. Its affinity to other species is discussed. The species is easily distinguished from congeners by its calyx lobes 5-7 mm long, its funnel-shaped corolla, and its costate hypanthium and fruits.
40300881|Se describe y se ilustra Forestiera isabelae Hammel & Cornejo, conocida de una sola poblacin pequea en Costa Rica, por Montezuma en la Pennsula de Nicoya. Siendo una especie costera con ptalos, y adems con hojas y frutos relativamente grandes (9-17 X 4-6 cm y 15-20 mm, respectivamente), se separa fcilmente de las otras dos especies costarricenses, aptalas y de elevaciones ms altas. Se compara con y se distingue detalladamente de otras dos especies costeras recin descritas y con las cuales est cercanamente relacionada, F. corollata Cornejo & Wallander de ms al norte en Mesoamrica (Mxico, Guatemala y Belice) y F. ecuadoriensis Cornejo & Bonifaz del Ecuador. /// Forestiera isabelae Hammel & Cornejo, known from one small population near Montzuma on the Nicoya Peninsula of Costa Rica, is described. As a lowland coastal species with petals and relatively large leaves and fruits (9-17 X 4-6 cm and 15-20 mm, respectively), it is easily distinguished from the two other Costa Rican species, both apetalous and from higher elevation. It is compared with and distinguished in detail from two other more closely related, recently described coastal species, F. corollata Cornejo & Wallander from farther north in Mesoamerica (Mexico, Guatemala, and Belize) and F. ecuadoriensis Cornejo & Bonifaz from Ecuador.
40300920|A new species, Hymenocallis gholsonii G. Lorn. Smith & Garland (Amaryllidaceae), is described and illustrated. It is a rare endemic that occurs along a stream and its branches in the Apalachicola National Forest, in Liberty County, Florida, U.S.A. Its robust bulbs, narrowly oblanceolate, green-yellow leaves, and robust perianth tubes distinguish it from the allied H. choctawensis Traub, which has more slender bulbs, shiny green, prominently oblanceolate leaves, and slender perianth tubes.
10.2307/3391975|The study of recently collected specimens of neotropical Sapindaceae reveals the need for various taxonomic changes. Matayba spondioides Standley from Mexico is transferred to Averrhoidium; Paullinia lachnocarpa Bentham ex Radlkofer (Chimborazoa lachnocarpa (Bentham ex Radlkofer) H. Beck) from Ecuador is transferred to Serjania (therefore, Chimborazoa is reduced to the synonymy of Serjania); and Toulicia acuminata Radlkofer from Amazonas, Brazil, is transferred to the closely related Porocystis. /// El estudio de especmenes de Sapindaceas neotropicales, recientemente coleccionados revela la necesidad de varios cambios taxonmicos. Matayba spondioides Standley de Mxico es transferido al gnero Averrhoidium; Paullinia lachnocarpa Bentham ex Radlkofer (Chimborazoa lachnocarpa (Bentham ex Radlkofer) H. Beck) del Ecuador es transferido al gnero Serjania (como resultado el gnero Chimborazoa es reducido a sinonimia con Serjania); Toulicia acuminata Radlkofer proveniente de Amazonas, Brasil, es transferido al gnero cercano Porocystis.
20406084|Schindleria (Phytolaccaceae) is a small genus of only three species from Peru and Bolivia. Routine identification of recent Peruvian collections has revealed a new species. Schindleria tomentosa Ricketson is described and illustrated, and its conservation status (CRBID) and phylogenetic relationships are discussed. In addition, three synonyms are lectotypified (Rivina densiflora Kuntze var. flavida Kuntze, S. weberbaueri O. C. Schmidt, and S. glabra H. Walter), and a fourth synonym (Villamilla rosea) is deemed illegitimate. /// El gnero Schindleria (Phytolaccaceae) contiene solamente tres especies provenientes del Per y Bolivia. Durante el transcurso de identificar colecciones peruanas se descubri una especie nueva para la ciencia. Se describe e ilustre Schindleria tomentosa Ricketson y se discute su estado de conservacin parentezco. Adems, se lectotipifica tres sinnimos (Rivina densiflora Kuntze var. flavida Kuntze, S. weberbaueri O. C. Schmidt y S. glabra H. Walter), y se determine que otro sinnimo (Villamilla rosea) es ilegtimo.
10.2307/3391984|Deherainia lageniformis Gmez-Laurito & N. Zamora, from Costa Rica, is described, illustrated, and compared with its closest relative. /// Se describe de Costa Rica una nueva especie de Deherainia (Theophrastaceae), adems se ilustra y se compara con la otra especie cercana.
23018473|Seven new species are described in Dioclea Kunth (Fabaceae, Diocleinae). Dioclea ovalis R. H. Maxwell is described from Colombia and assigned to series Dioclea. Within subgenus Dioclea, the new series Virgatae R. H. Maxwell is created, with the new species D. vallensis R. H. Maxwell included from Colombia. Two sections established by Bentham are raised to subgenera status, as the new combinations Dioclea subg. Pachylobium (Benth.) R. H. Maxwell and Dioclea subg. Platylobium (Benth.) R. H. Maxwell. Within subgenus Platylobium, D. hispidimarginata R. H. Maxwell is described from Peru. Within subgenus Pachylobium, four new species are described: D. apiculata R. H. Maxwell from Bolivia, D. circinata R. H. Maxwell from Colombia, D. haughtii R. H. Maxwell from Colombia and Venezuela, and D. jamesonii R. H. Maxwell from Ecuador. Dioclea macrocarpa Huber is designated as lectotype for Dioclea sect. Macrocarpon Amshoff.
3393399|Oxypolis ternata (Nuttall) A. Heller (Apiaceae) is superseded by the new combination O. denticulata (Baldwin) J. R. Edmondson, which is lectotypified herein.
10.2307/3391563|Among the bryophytes collected in northwestern Kansas by Vernon L. Wranosky of Colby, Kansas, during the summer of 1990 is a new genus and species of Pottiaceae, Ozobryum ogalalense. Subsequent collecting in the vicinity has resulted in two additional localities for this moss, one in Kansas and one in Nebraska.
10.2307/3393043|Richterago, a genus endemic to Brazil, re-established from Gochnatia Kunth, has until now been comprised of 10 species with a center of diversity in the Espinhao Range, Minas Gerais, Brazil. Five new species of Richterago, R. caulescens, R. conduplicata, R. elegans, R. lanata, and R. riparia, are described and illustrated, bringing the total in the genus to 17. All species are endemic to the campo rupestre vegetation and are characterized by their habit and leaf morphology. Richterago caulescens and R. elegans are subshrubs, chamaephytes with alternate leaves, the former with rose-colored disc florets; the other new species are herbs, hemicryptophytes with rosulate leaves. Richterago conduplicata is distinguished by its obovate and conduplicate leaves; R. lanata has oblanceolate leaves that are coriaceous, densely white-lanate, and R. riparia has oblanceolate to spathulate leaves that are chartaceous and glabrescent. Commentaries concerning other morphological features of the new species and their ecology and geographical distribution are presented.
10.2307/3392213|Nototrichium divaricatum Lorence from the Hawaiian Island of Kaua'i, distinguished from its congeners by its compoundly branched inflorescences with divaricate branches and shorter spikes, is described and illustrated, and its affinities within the genus are discussed.
10.2307/3392100|Echidnium spruceanum Schott is transferred to Dracontium as D. spruceanum (Schott) G. Zhu. The original observation of unilocular ovaries with two ovules per locule on the holotype is here considered to have been erroneous. Dracontium carderi Hooker f., D. costaricense Engler, D. trianae Engler, D. loretense K. Krause, and D. ornatum K. Krause are placed in synonymy under D. spruceanum. A lectotype is designated for the name D. trianae.
10.2307/3391465|Four new combinations in Limonium (L. lacostei, L. dielsianum, L. chrysocomum subsp. semenovii, and L. callianthum), one in Armeria (A. labradorica subsp. sibirica), and one in Acantholimon (A. laevigatum) are proposed.
10.2307/3391726|Ruprechtia howardiana, from deciduous forests in Bolvar state, Venezuela, is newly described and illustrated. It appears most closely related to R. ramiflora (Jacquin) Meyer.
10.2307/3393243|Macrocarpaea angustifolia, known only from the Departamento de Pasco, Peru, differs from the sympatric M. revoluta in having glabrous, narrower, acuminate leaves with obscure secondary venation. It further differs in its verrucose (Rusbyanthus-type) pollen, which suggests a closer relationship to such species as M. corymbosa and M. viscosa.
3393490|Two new species of Myrtaceae are described and illustrated, Calycolpus aequatorialis of Ecuador and Psidium huanucoense of Peru. Calycolpus aequatorialis appears to have a close relative in C. surinamensis, but differs in having a closed calyx, relatively little indumentum, and strongly 4-winged twigs. Psidium huanucoense is compared with the similar species P. acutangulum from which it differs in having velvety indumentum of short, yellowish, erect hairs and larger leaves. Comparison with P. guineense is also made, from which it differs in venation, number of ovules, anther length, and hair length.
10.2307/3392955|As a result of recent revisionary studies in the genus, a new species, Homozeugos conciliatum, is described from the central highlands of Angola in western Africa. It is differentiated from the more common Homozeugos eylesii C. E. Hubbard by a much shorter ligule, inrolled leaves, and longer microhairs on the abaxial surface of the leaves with a lower ratio of basal cell length to distal cell length. A full description of the new species and its predicted habitat is given.
40300940|Four new orchid species from Madagascar are described and illustrated. Notes on the distribution, ecology, and conservation status are provided. Bulbophyllum uroplatoides Hermans & G. A. Fischer, B. histrionicum Reichenbach f. ex G. A. Fischer & P. J. Cribb, and B, senghasii G. A. Fischer & Sieder belong to section Calamaria Schlechter, whereas B. bryophytoides G. A. Fischer & Andriantiana belongs to section Lichenophylax Schlechter. Bulbophyllum uroplatoides Hermans & G. A. Fischer is related to B. cardiobulbum Bosser, but differs in the thickened racemes, overall plant size, the shape of the sepals, petals, and lip, and coloration. Bulbophyllum histrionicum Reichenbach f. ex G. A. Fischer & P. J. Cribb was previously recognized by Reichenbach as a new species, but was never formally described. It is characterized by its large, orbicular to somewhat ovoid pseudobulbs that are green flushed with red, large, ovate-oblong to ovate-lanceolate leaves, red floral bracts, long sepals, narrowly triangular petals, and glabrous lip. Bulbophyllum senghasii G. A. Fischer & Sieder has orbicular, non-compressed bifoliate pseudobulbs, flowers with greenish yellow sepals that are spotted with dark brown on the outside, and an elliptic lip that is not compressed in the middle and has erose rather than long-ciliate margins and falcate rather than straight stelidia. Bulbophyllum bryophytoides G. A. Fischer & Andriantiana is a very tiny plant distinguishable from other species of section Lichenophylax by its densely long-ciliate petals and its ciliate lip that lacks a median callus and has a glabrous surface. /// Quatre nouvelles espces d'orchide de Madagascar sont dcrites et illustres. Notes sur la distribution, cologie et sur le statut de conservation sont fournis. Bulbophyllum uroplatoides Hermans & G. A. Fischer, B. histrionicum Reichenbach f. ex G. A. Fischer & P. J. Cribb, et B. senghasii G. A. Fischer & Sieder appartiennent  la section Calamaria Schlechter tandis que B, bryophytoides G. A. Fischer & Andriantiana appartient  la section Lichenophylax Schlechter. Bulbophyllum uroplatoides Hermans & G. A. Fischer est etroitement apparent au B. cardiobulbum Bosser, mais le port de la plante, le modle, la coloration des spales et ptales ainsi que la grappe paisse les differencie. Bulbophyllum histrionicum Reichenbach f. ex G. A. Fischer & P. J. Cribb pralablement reconnu par Reichenbach comme nouvelle espce mais jamais dcrite ni publiee formellement. Il est bien caractris par des pseudobulbes larges, spheriques un peu ovoides, feuilles ovales-oblongs  ovales-lancoles, larges de couleur verte empourpre, bracte florale rouge, spales longues, ptales troitement triangulaires et labelle glabre. Bulbophyllum senghasii G. A. Fischer & Sieder a des pseudobulbes bifolis, non comprims, sphriques (orbiculaires), fleurs  spales jaunes verdatres, tachets brunies vers l'extrieur, labelle elliptique non-comprim au milieu  bordure plutot ronge que longuement cilie, stelidie plutot falci forme que rectiligne. Bulbophyllum bryophytoides G. A. Fischer & Andriantiana est une plante tres petite, distinguable facilement des autres espces de la section Lichenophylax par ses ptales densement long-ciles et labelle cili sans callus median et  surface glabre.
10.2307/3391403|A new species, Ceratozamia sabatoi, is described and illustrated. Its closest affinities are with C. kuesteriana from Tamaulipas, but it differs from that species in both cone and leaf morphology. The chromosome number of Ceratozamia sabatoi is 2n = 16, and the karyotype is similar to other species of the genus.
20406098|The new species Brachystelma nutans Bruyns (Apocynaceae, Asclepiadoideae) is described from the botanically relatively little-known Mount Namuli complex in the northern part of Zambzia Province of northern Moambique.
3393497|When Oryzopsis is confined to the type species, Chinese species are placed in Achnatherum and Piptatherum. This necessitates the following new combinations: Piptatherum grandispiculum, Piptatherum aequiglume var. ligulatum. Piptatherum tibeticum var. psilolepis. Piptatherum munroi var. parviflorum, Achnatherum henryi, and Achnatherum henryi var. acutum. Achnatherum henryi is lectotypified. The new name Piptatherum kuoi replaces the illegitimate name Piptatherum obtusum, and this species is lectotypified. Hierochloe potaninii is transferred to Anthoxanthum as A. potaninii, as Hierochloe is regarded as a synonym of Anthoxanthum. All the grass taxa (Poaceae) listed are endemic to China.
23259344|Two new species of Oryctanthus (Griseb.) Eichler (Loranthaceae), O. grammatus Kuijt from Colombia (Bolvar) and O. guianensis Kuijt from French Guiana, are described and illustrated. Both are characterized by extremely short inflorescences and small leaves and unusual furfuraceous stem surfaces.
10.2307/3392951|Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie de Croizatia (Euphorbiaceae) de la Costa Ecuatoriana. Croizatia cimalonia es una especie arbustiva o pequea arbrea que se caracteriza por formar colonias entre alturas de 300-800 m en el Cerro Cimaln de la Reserva Ecolgica Manglares-Churute. Se caracteriza por los tallos con corteza externa fisurada, pecolos cortos de 5-13 mm, estriados, flores pentmeras, verdosas, pedicelos femeninos 25-40 mm de largo, estrigillosos, frutos cpsulas 3-lobada. /// A new species of Croizatia (Euphorbiaceae) from the costal lowlands of Ecuador is described and illustrated. Croizatia cimalonia is a shrub or small tree that forms stands between 300 and 800 m on Cerro Cimaln in the Reserva Ecolgica Manglares-Churute. It is characterized by trunks with fissured external bark; short, transversely striate petioles (5-13 mm long); greenish pentamerous flowers, shortly strigose pistillate pedicels (25-40 mm long); and 3-lobed, capsular fruits.
10.2307/3393108|Three Mesoamerican species of Marsdenia and four of Matelea are described as new and illustrated. New combinations are provided for a South American Blepharodon, a Mesoamerican Cynanchum, seven Mexican species of Dictyanthus, a species of Gonolobus from Mesoamerica and Ecuador, and one Mesoamerican and two Ecuadorian species of Jobinia. One species of Marsdenia and one of Metastelma, both from Mexico, are lectotypified, and the new name Marsdenia purpusiana W. D. Stevens is provided for Ecliptostelma molle Brandegee. The typification of Matelea amplyacuensis Morillo is clarified, and the synonymy of Metaplexis rostellata Turczaninow is corrected.
10.2307/3393100|Three new species of South American Randia (Rubiaceae, Gardenieae) are described and illustrated: Randia wigginsii Standley ex Gustafsson from montane tropical forests in Ecuador and northern Peru is mainly recognized by its tomentose to velutinous corolla tube and the lanate-velutinous pedicels and fruits. The possible features of being unarmed and having single male flowers are discussed. Randia pubistyla Gustafsson from lowland tropical dry forests in western Ecuador and Colombia is recognized by its puberulous style, the tomentose to puberulous fruits that usually are crowned by a calyx with reflexed lobes, and by the small thorns. Randia longifolia Gustafsson from lowland tropical humid forests in western Ecuador is mainly recognized by its relatively large, glabrous corolla, the linear calyx lobes, and by the reticulate finer vasculature on the abaxial surface of the leaves. The affinities for each species are discussed.
10.2307/3391730|Two subgenera in Echeandia (Anthericaceae), i.e., subg. Echeandia and subg. Mscavea, are recognized based on time of flower opening, tepal shape, flower color, and habitat differences. Fifteen species are proposed. One, E. texensis, is based on four collections made near Brownsville, Texas, and is surely rare, possibly extirpated. The recognition of five species clarifies the distributional range of E. reflexa, a common species of eastern Mexico. Seven species are endemic to Guerrero and adjacent areas of Michoacn, Mxico, Morelos, and/or Oaxaca. A key to the species of subgenus Mscavea and white-flowered species of subgenus Echeandia is provided.
10.2307/3393269|Comparative survey shows that Rohdea differs from eight species of Tupistra, one species of Campylandra (C. aurantiaca), and one species of Gonioscypha (G. eucomoides) mainly by the degree of thickness of the perianth and in the shape and length of the perianth lobes. As these differences do not seem to deserve generic delimitation, those species of the last three genera are here transferred to Rohdea. As a consequence, the following 10 new combinations are proposed: Rohdea aurantiaca (Baker) N. Tanaka, Rohdea chinensis (Baker) N. Tanaka, Rohdea delavayi (Franchet) N. Tanaka, Rohdea emeiensis (Z. Y. Zhu) N. Tanaka, Rohdea ensifolia (F. T Wang & Ts. Tang) N. Tanaka, Rohdea eucomoides (Baker) N. Tanaka, Rohdea jinshanensis (Z. L. Yang & X. G. Luo) N. Tanaka, Rohdea longipedunculata (F. T. Wang & S. Yun Liang) N. Tanaka, Rohdea tonkinensis (Baillon) N. Tanaka, and Rohdea verruculosa (Q. H. Chen) N. Tanaka.
10.2307/3393130|Phylogenetic analyses of sequence data of the chloroplast protein coding genes rbcL and rps4, and the chloroplast encoded trnL (UAA) intron suggest that morphological characters traditionally used in delimiting the genera Diphyscium Mohr, Muscoflorschuetzia Crosby, and Theriotia Cardot in the moss family Diphysciaceae are homoplastic; Diphyscium is paraphyletic, and Theriotia and Muscoflorschuetzia are nested in Diphyscium. Therefore, only Diphyscium Mohr should be recognized in Diphysciaceae, and Muscoflorschuetzia Crosby and Theriotia Cardot should be made synonyms of Diphyscium. Consequently, three combinations are newly made: Diphyscium kashmirense (H. Robinson) Magombo, Diphyscium lorifolium (Cardot) Magombo, and Diphyscium pilmaiquen (Crosby) Magombo.
10.2307/3391408|The range of the genus Deprea is discussed, and a new species, Deprea hirtiflora, from Venezuela, is described and illustrated. An over-looked, second species, Deprea granulosa, is also presented and illustrated.
10.2307/3391526|Nomenclatural changes, affecting Marmoritis and Scutellaria, are made for the upcoming Flora of China.
10.2307/3392153|In preparation for the treatment of Calyptranthes (Myrtaceae) for the Flora de Nicaragua, a summary and identification key to the five known species from the country are presented. One of these, Calyptranthes amarulenta B. Holst, a new species from central Nicaragua, is described and illustrated. The new species is characterized by having bicolorous leaf blades when dry that are rounded to obtuse at the apex, a biconvex midvein on the upper leaf surface, and a glabrous inflorescence.
10.2307/3391411|The following two taxa are proposed as new: Pleurothallis erebatensis and Trichosalpinx oxychilos. Both species are illustrated with plates by the late G. C. K. Dunsterville. Comments are provided on their relationships.
23259414|Neuwiedia malipoensis Z. J. Liu, L. J. Chen & Ke Wei Liu (Orchidaceae, Apostasioideae), from southeastern Yunnan Province in China, is described, illustrated, and photographed. The new species is characterized by a true corolla lip, which is widely obovate and concave, with a subterete claw at the base and a fleshy linear callus extending from its claw to the upper portion. By these features it can be easily distinguished from its allied N. veratrifolia Blume, N. balansae Baill. ex Gagnep., and other species of this genus.
20406184|The following new infrageneric taxa are described: Bazzania S. Gray sect. Glaucobazzania J. J. Engel (Lepidoziaceae) and Cephalozia (Dumortier) Dumortier subg. Eocephalozia R. M. Schuster ex J. J. Engel (Cephaloziaceae). Solenostoma cryptogynum R. M. Schuster ex J. J. Engel (Jungermanniaceae), C. austrigena R. M. Schuster ex J. J. Engel, C. schusteriana J. J. Engel, C. pachygyna R. M. Schuster ex J. J. Engel (Cephaloziaceae), Cephaloziella pseudocrassigyna R. M. Schuster ex J. J. Engel (Cephaloziellaceae), and Hyalolepidozia microphylla R. M. Schuster ex J. J. Engel (Lepidoziaceae) are new species. Kurzia helophila R. M. Schuster var. flaccida R. M. Schuster ex J. J. Engel and Allisoniella nigra (Rodway) R. M. Schuster var. acutiloba J. J. Engel are new varieties. Lophozia monoica (Hodgson) J. J. Engel, Andrewsianthus hodgsoniae (R. M. Schuster) R. M. Schuster ex J. J. Engel, A. scabrellus (C. Massalongo) R. M. Schuster ex J. J. Engel, A. sphenoloboides (R. M. Schuster) R. M. Schuster ex J. J. Engel, Solenostoma hodgsoniae (Grolle) J. J. Engel, S. rufiflorum (Colenso) J. J. Engel, Pseudomarsupidium aureocinctum (R. M. Schuster) J. J. Engel, P. crossii (Spruce) J. J. Engel, and Cephaloziella varians (Gottsche) Stephani var. subantarctica (R. M. Schuster) R. M. Schuster ex J. J. Engel are new combinations.
40960823|A new species of Impatiens L., I. oblongipetala K. M. Liu & Y. Y. Cong (Balsaminaceae), from Yunnan Province, China, is described and illustrated, including its seed and pollen micromorphologies. This species is similar to I. lecomtei Hook. f. and I. weihsiensis Y. L. Chen, but differs by the white to slightly pink lateral sepals, the white lower sepal without purple striae, and the lateral united petals with apically retuse distal lobes.
10.2307/3391519|Murdannia cryptantha (Commelinaceae), a new species from Australia and Papua New Guinea, is described. It is most closely related to M. graminea, and it is the first species of Murdannia reported to have cleistogamous flowers.
10.2307/3392135|Valeriana tajuvensis, a species from the Serra Geral massif in Rio Grande do Sul and Santa Catarina, Brazil, is described and compared with related Brazilian species of the genus. /// Valeriana tajuvensis, especie de las montaas de Serra Geral en Rio Grande do Sul y Santa Catarina, Brasil, es descrita y comparada con las especies brasileas afines del gnero.
40856306|On the basis of extensive herbarium studies, Rubia pseudogalium Ehrend., Galium chekiangense Ehrend., G. kunmingense Ehrend., G. rupifragum Ehrend., and G. sichuanense Ehrend, are described, illustrated, and discussed as new species from Zhejiang (= Chekiang), Yunnan, and Sichuan, respectively, for the flora of eastern and southwestern China. Galium dahuricum var. densiflorum (Cufod.) Ehrend, is a new combination.
10.2307/3393084|A new species of Achimenes Persoon, A. hintoniana, is described from western Mexico and distinguished from the closely related A. mexicana by the pilose indumentum of the stem, leaves, and pedicels, the linear-lanceolate calyx lobes, and the slightly saccate purple or rarely white corolla.
10.2307/3391964|The following nomenclatural changes are proposed: Maesa brevipaniculata (C. Y. Wu & C. Chen) Pipoly & C. Chen, M. confusa (C. M. Hu) Pipoly & C. Chen, Embelia laeta (L.) Mez subsp. papilligera (Nakai) Pipoly & C. Chen, E. ribes Burman f. subsp. pachyphylla (C. Y. Wu & C. Chen) Pipoly & C. Chen, Ardisia obtusa Mez subsp. pachyphylla (Dunn) Pipoly & C. Chen, Myrsine cicatricosa (C. Chen) Pipoly & C. Chen, M. verruculosa (C. Chen) Pipoly & C. Chen, M. faberi (Mez) Pipoly & C. Chen, and M. kwangsiensis (E. H. Walker) Pipoly & C. Chen. Twenty-three taxa in Embelia and Ardisia are reduced to synonymy for the first time. Twelve names in Embelia, Ardisia, and Myrsine are lectotypified.
20406024|Since the publication of a monograph on Isolepis (Cyperaceae) in 2002, further data on the genus have been collected, necessitating additional nomenclatural change. Isolepis is a predominantly southern hemisphere genus with high species diversity in South Africa and Australia. A new combination is made here: Isolepis tenella (L.f.) Muasya & D. A. Simpson, transferring an aberrant annual previously named Cyperus tenellus.
40856325|Una nueva especie del gnero Styloceras Kunth ex A. Juss. (Buxaceae), fue encontrada en los bosques nublados del Parque Nacional Madidi y la Reserva Biosfera y Tierra Comunitaria de Origen Piln Lajas en los Andes Bolivianos. Se describe e ilustra a S. connatum Torrez & P. J0rg., taxn que presenta similitudes morfolgicas con S. penninervium A. H. Gentry & Aymard, pero se distingue de est por la consistencia de las hojas, nmero de anteras, color de flores y las caractersticas del fruto. Se proporciona una clave para la identificacin de especies de Styloceras conocidas al presente. A new species of the genus Styloceras Kunth ex A. Juss. (Buxaceae) was collected in the cloud forests of Madidi National Park and Piln Lajas Biosphere Reserve and Communal Lands in the Bolivian Andes. We describe and illustrate S.connatum Torrez & P. J0rg., a taxon that has morphological similarities with S. penninervium A.H. Gentry & Aymard, but can be distinguished by the consistency of the leaves, numbers of anthers, flower color, and the characteristics of the fruit. A key to the species of Styloceras is provided.
10.2307/3393172|The generic limits and relationships of Platycraspedum are discussed, and the new species P. wuchengyii is described. It is most closely related to Taphrospermum, from which it differs by having toothed filaments of median stamens, 2-lobed stigmas, palmately veined leaves, unequal sepals, and minutely reticulate seeds.
10.2307/3391980| Jacquinia morenoana, a new species of Theophrastaceae from the northern coast of the state of Veracruz, Mexico, is described. A discussion of its affinities with J. macrocarpa Cavanilles subsp. macrocarpa, based on the habitat and morphological characters, is presented. /// Se describe como especie nueva a Jacquinia morenoana (Theophrastaceae) de la costa norte del estado de Veracruz, Mxico. Se discuten sus afinidades con J. macrocarpa subsp. macrocarpa, se indica el hbitat y se discuten las caractersticas morfolgicas que las distinguen. 
10.2307/3392062|Durante el estudio fitosociolgico y geobotnico que actualmente realizamos sobre el Gran Chaco en Bolivia, se colect material de un arbolito de la familia Zygophyllaceae, que se propone como nuevo gnero y especie, Izozogia nellii, diferenciable de los afines por su androceo muy heteromtrico (5 + 5) y fruto indehiscente ovoidecurvado, ni anguloso ni alado, con cavidades completamente soldadas que contienen 0-3 semillas cada una. El nuevo taxon se describe, se ilustra y se compara con los afines. /// During phytosociological and geobotanical research in the Bolivian Gran Chaco, a shrubby-arborescent member of the Zygophyllaceae was collected and is described here as a new genus and species, Izozogia nellii. It is distinguished from its relatives by its strongly heterometric stamens (5 + 5) and the indehiscent, ovate-curved, unwinged, unangled fruits with completely fused cavities, each one containing 0-3 seeds. The new taxon is described, illustrated, and compared with its relatives.
10.2307/3391877|Thirty-four previously invalidly published taxa of Chinese Salix are validated. These include 14 sections (Allochroae, Biondianae, Cathayanae, Cheilophilae, Chingianae, Dodecandrae, Doliae, Eriocladae, Ernestia, Floccosae, Tangia, Tetradeniae, Variegatae, and Wilsonia), 15 species (S. acuminatomicrophylla, S. amnematchinensis, S. chingiana, S. crenata, S. forrestii, S. hupehensis, S. kansuensis, S. lamashanensis, S. ovatomicrophylla, S. pseudowolohoensis, S. shansiensis, S. schneideriana, S. tangii, S. wangiana, and S. wuiana), 4 varieties (S. atopantha var. glabra, S. caprea var. dentata, S. caprea var. sinica, and S. caprea var. subsessilis), and 1 form (S. spodiophylla f. liocarpa).
40300942|A new species, Hoya bawanglingensis S. Y. He & P. T. Li (Apocynaceae, Asclepiadoideae), is described and illustrated from Hainan, China. The morphological characters of H. bawanglingensis and the related species H. pottsii Traill are compared. Hoya bawanglingensis differs in the pubescence of its young stems, both leaf surfaces, petioles, peduncles, pedicels, outer calyx lobes, and follicles. The corolla lobes are white with purple spots, and the corona is white with a purplish center.
10.2307/3392204|Analizando-se coletas recentes realizadas em Campina Grande, estado da Paraba, Brasil, reconheceu-se uma nova espcie, Matelea roulinioides, que  aqui descrita e ilustrada. /// Matelea roulinioides, a new species of Gonolobeae (Asclepiadaceae) from northeastern Brazil, is described and illustrated.
10.2307/3391516|Research on the Orchidaceae of the Venezuelan Guayana and neighboring areas has yielded several novelties, new records, and nomenclatural changes. Nine species (one Dichaea, two Lepanthes, one Maxillaria, three Pleurothallis, one Sarcoglottis, and one Uleiorchis), a natural hybrid in Maxillaria, and two subspecies (one Myoxanthus and one Stelis) are newly described. New synonymies are proposed in Campylocentrum, Habenaria, and Octomeria. In addition, several miscellaneous country records are reported. Fifteen of the taxa presented are illustrated.
10.2307/3391900|A new species of Croton (sect. Geiseleria) from western Mexico is described and illustrated. The relationship between this species and C. cupulifer McVaugh is discussed, and a key distinguishing these two species and C. glandulosus L. is provided.
40300873|Se presenta una nueva especie y combinacin de Malvaceae, Wissadula stipulata Bovini y W. cuspidata (R. E. Fries) Bovini, respectivamente. Ambas fueron encontradas en el centro-oeste de Brasil, en las regiones del Pantanal y Amaznica. Se presenta la descripcin e ilustracin de la nueva especie, y una clave taxonmica para las especies de Wissadula en Brasil que estn relacionadas. El nombre W. cuspidata es lectotipificado /// A new species and combination in Malvaceae, Wissadula stipulata Bovini and W. cuspidata (R. E. Fries) Bovini, respectively, are presented. Both were found in the central-west of Brazil, in the lowlands and Amazon rainforest regions. A description and illustration of the new species are provided, and a taxonomic key of species related to Wissadula in Brazil is presented. The name W. cuspidata is lectotypified.
41811672|Hoya daimenglongensis Shao Y. He & P. T. Li (Apocynaceae, Asclepiadoideae) from Yunnan Province, China, is described and illustrated. This new species and H. linearis Wall. ex D. Don are similar in their linear leaves and terminal inflorescences. Hoya daimenglongensis, however, differs from H. linearis by the internal surface of the corolla, which is minutely tomentose and not papillose (vs. glabrous or papillose), and the corona lobes, which are white tinged with red (vs. pure white).
10.2307/3391601|Two new species of Jungia, J. schuerae and J. gracilis, from the Peruvian Andes are described and illustrated, and their affinities are briefly discussed.
43288940|A new species, Nepeta sahandica Noroozi & Ajani (Labiatae), is described and illustrated from the high altitudes of the Sahand Mountains in northwestern Iran. Morphological differences of this species from its closest relatives in Nepeta L. sect. Capituliferae (Benth.) Pojark., N. lasiocephala Benth. and N. monocephala Rech.f., are discussed. These species differ mainly in their respective habit, basal and stem leaves, indumentum, and character of bract and calyx. The new species is restricted to the subnival vegetation zone, associated with unstable scree grounds. Nepeta sahandica is classified as Critically Endangered (CR), based on IUCN Red List criteria.
10.2307/3391396|Studies on the plant diversity of Las Orqudeas National Park in Antioquia, Colombia, along with preparation of a treatment of the Myrsinaceae for Flora de Colombia, resulted in the discovery of four new taxa and two new combinations in Geissanthus. Examination of species known from the entire Western Cordillera of Colombia and the Choc Floristic Province, from Panama to Ecuador, resulted in the discovery of 17 species from the area. An artificial key to the species of Geissanthus from the Choc and Western Cordillera is presented, along with descriptions of four new species, G. callejasii, G. betancurii, G. francoae, and G. cogolloi. Three new combinations are made, G. longistamineus, G. perpuncticulosus, and G. scrobiculatus, and revised descriptions based on complete material are presented for G. longistamineus and G. perpuncticulosus. /// Como resultado de los estudios de la fitodiversidad del Parque Nacional Natural "Las Orqudeas," Antioquia, Colombia, y de actividades preliminares al tratamiento de Myrsinaceae para Flora de Colombia, se presentan cuatro taxa nuevos y tres nuevas combinaciones en el gnero Geissanthus. Al estudiar los especmenes de la Cordillera Occidental de Colombia y la provincia florstica chocoana desde Panam hasta Ecuador, se reconocieron 17 especies en la zona. Se presenta una clave artificial para separarlos, se describen las cuatro especies nuevas, G. callejasii, G. betancurii, G. francoae, y G. cogolloi, y se publican las tres nuevas combinaciones, G. longistamineus, G. perpuncticulosus, y G. scrobiculatus; adems se proveen descripciones revisadas para G. longistamineus y G. perpuncticulosus basadas en el estudio de material completo.
10.2307/3391384|A study of the Venezuelan Guayana species of Schefflera (Araliaceae) as part of a family treatment for the forthcoming Flora of the Venezuelan Guayana calls for recognition of 30 species not included in the 1984 summary by Maguire, Steyermark & Frodin or a later paper by Steyermark & Holst. Twenty-two species are described here, 12 of them from collections made since 1981, and 8 species are elevated from infraspecific rank. Together with 28 previously recognized species, a total of 58 species are now known from the Venezuelan Guayana and immediately adjacent parts of Brazil and Guyana. Of these, 55 species are endemic or nearly endemic to the region. At the infraspecific level, a new variety is described as Schefflera chimantensis subsp. rugosifolia var. iluensis; Didymopanax multiramosus Steyermark is restored at subspecific rank within S. chimantensis; and S. rugosifolia Maguire, Steyermark & Frodin is reduced to subspecific rank within the same species. Two previously known species are renamed for nomenclatural reasons. The Venezuelan Guayanan species of Schefflera belong to four distinct groups within the genus, for which brief synopses are provided.
10.2307/3393239|A new species, Potentilla polyphylloides H. Ikeda & H. Ohba, is described and illustrated. It is assigned to section Leptostylae by having an herbaceous habit, slender or fusiform styles, auricles of stipules of basal leaves situated at adaxial side of petioles, and flowering stems from axils of basal leaves. It resembles P. polyphylla Wallich ex Lehmann, but differs by its glandular hairs on the lower surface of leaflets, pedicels, and the outside of episepals, as well as the occasional rooting at the axils of cauline leaves on the lower portion of flowering stems. Potentilla polyphylloides resembles P. fallens Cardot sharing the glandular hairs, but P. fallens differs in having nearly entire episepals that are shorter than the sepals, and longer styles nearly twice as long as the ovaries. Potentilla polyphylloides has a chromosome number of 2n = 42, while that of P. polyphylla and P. fallens is 2n = 28.
40300884|Meliosma chartacea Lombardi (Sabiaceae), a new species from southeastern Brazil, is described from Minas Gerais and Esprito Santo. It is characterized by its entire internal petals, very short petiole (generally less than 1 cm), brochidodromous venation, and entire leaf margin. A key to determine the species from southeastern Brazil is presented. Lectotypes and new synonyms are proposed for formerly described Brazilian species: M. sellowii Urban and M. itatiaiae Urban /// Meliosma chartacea Lombardi (Sabiaceae), uma nova espcie sudeste do Brasil  descrita para Minas Gerais e Esprito Santo, esta espcie  caracterizada pelas ptalas intemas inteiras, pecolos muito curtos (geralmente com menos do que 1 cm), venao broquiddroma e pela margem inteira das folhas.  apresentada uma chave para a determinao das espcies do sudeste do Brasil. Lecttipos e novos sinnimos so propostos para as espcies brasileiras anteriormente descritas: M. sellowii Urban e M. itatiaiae Urban.
20406233|Impatiens rupestris K. M. Liu & X. Z. Cai, a new species of Balsaminaceae from Hunan Province in southern China, is described and illustrated. An identification key to the new species and its relatives is provided. Impatiens rupestris differs from I. polyneura K. M. Liu in its lamina base widely cuneate or  rounded, the lateral veins in 11 to 16 pairs, the dorsal petal widely obovate, and the lower lobes of the lateral united petals connate into obovate lamella. It is distinct from I. obesa Hooker f. in its lamina elliptic or ovate-oblong, lateral united petals stipitate, upper corolla lobes widely obovate or suborbicular, lower corolla lobes connate into obovate lamella, and seeds with tuberculate testa.
10.2307/3393041|The new monotypic genus Beringia is proposed to include the extremely similar taxa previously treated as Halimolobos mollis from northern North America and Greenland, H. virgata from western North America, and Arabidopsis bursifolia from the Russian Far East. The new combinations B. bursifolia and B. bursifolia subsp. virgata are proposed, and a key to taxa and synopsis of the genus are presented.
10.2307/3391939|Se describe e ilustra a Marsdenia callosa, una nueva especie de Asclepiadaceae del Sur de Mxico, que por mucho tiempo ha sido confundida con Marsdenia edulis S. Watson, la cual presenta una distribucin ms nortea. La principal caracterstica que distingue a Marsdenia callosa de M. edulis es la presencia de un callo anular y carnoso con pelos dorados en la garganta de la corola. /// Marsdenia callosa, a new species of Asclepiadaceae from southern Mexico, is described and illustrated. This species resembles Marsdenia edulis S. Watson, which has a more northern distribution. The main character that distinguishes Marsdenia callosa from M. edulis is an annular and fleshy callus with golden hairs in the throat of the corolla.
20406157|Notes on the taxonomy and geography of the genus Dontostemon Andrzejowski ex C. A. Meyer (Brassicaceae) are given. Torularia sergievskiana Polozhij is reduced to synonymy of D. pinnatifidus (Willdenow) Al-Shehbaz & H. Ohba, and D. glandulosus (Karelin & Kirilov) O. E. Schulz is excluded from the flora of Russia. A new subspecies, D. senilis Maximowicz subsp. gubanovii D. German (northwestern Mongolia), is described. Dontostemon intermedius Voroschilov is recognized as an independent species instead of a synonym of D. dentatus (Bunge) Ledebour.
20406025|Recent phylogenetic analyses of tribe Neillieae in Rosaceae, which comprises Neillia, Physocarpus, and Stephanandra, based on both nuclear and chloroplast DNA sequences revealed that Neillia and Stephanandra together form a strongly supported monophyletic group and that species of Stephanandra are nested within Neillia. The close relationship between Neillia and Stephanandra is also supported by leaf morphology, inflorescence type, and carpel number. In order to better reflect the evolutionary relationships among species of Neillia and Stephanandra, based on molecular phylogenetic and morphological evidence, Stephanandra is united with Neillia, and three traditionally recognized species and a hybrid of Stephanandra are transferred to Neillia. This treatment results in new combinations as follows: N. hanceana (Kuntze) S. Oh, N. incisa (Thunberg) S. Oh, and N.  nakatsu-riparia (H. Takahashi) S. Oh. Stephanandra incisa (Thunberg) Zabel var. macrophylla Hideo Takahashi is treated as a new synonym of Neillia incisa.
10.2307/3391508|Raritebe axillare, Gonzalagunia mildredae, and G. villosa, all of Peru and (except G. mildredae) Ecuador, are newly described; Remijia megistocaula is transferred to Calycophyllum; and a key is presented to the eight species of Gonzalagunia found in Peru.
23018505|A new fern genus, Himalayopteris W. Shao & S. G. Lu (Polypodiaceae, Polypodioideae), is described and established based on the new combination H. erythrocarpa (Mett. ex Kuhn) W. Shao & S. G. Lu, for its only known species distributed in northern India, Sikkim, and the adjacent Himalayas. Evidence for its generic separation lies in its venation pattern, scale characteristics, leaf epidermis, sporangia, spore ornamentation, and chromosome number. Assessment of its IUCN conservation status with georeferenced localities places the new genus in the Vulnerable category.
20406197|Mousonnia adpressipilosa D. L. Denham ex Ramrez-Roa (Gesneriaceae), a new solitary-flowered species from southern Mexico and Guatemala, is described and illustrated. It has been collected principally in Chiapas, Mexico, with only one location in the Sierra de los Cuchumatenes, Guatemala. Although the possession of solitary flowers is considered unusual in Moussonia Regel, an increase in the number of species both validly published and undescribed with this condition indicates the opposite. The combination of characteristics that distinguish the new species from other solitary-flowered species are principally the whitish strigose indumentum; the shallowly serrated and revolute leaves; the flat adaxial and abaxial surface of the leaves, adaxial surface green, abaxial surface reddish; and flowers with thick, narrow, slightly ventricose, and gradually widening tubular corollas. A key for the solitary-flowered species of Moussonia is included. /// Moussonia adpressipilosa D. L. Denham ex Ramrez-Roa (Gesneriaceae) es una nueva especie de flores solitarias del sur de Mxico y Guatemala, que se describe e ilustra. Ha sido colectada principalmente en Chiapas, Mxico y en una sola localidad en la sierra de los Cuchumatenes, Guatemala. Aunque la presencia de flores solitarias es considerada poco comn en Moussonia Regel, el aumento en el nmero de especies tanto validamente publicadas como no descritas an con esta condicin, indica lo contrario. Las caractersticas que distinguen a la nueva especies de otras de flores solitarias son principalmente el indumento estrigoso blanquecino, hoja ligeramente aserradas y revoluta, haz y envs planos, haz verde, envs rojizo y flores tubulares gruesa, angosta, ligeramente ventricosa y gradualmente ensanchada hacia el limbo. Se incluye una clave de identificacin para las especies de Moussonia con flores solitarias.
10.2307/3391929|The generic name Quidproquo is reduced to synonymy of Raphanus. The new combination R. confusus is proposed. Evidence for the retention of Brassica aucheri in Brassica, rather than in Sinapis, is presented.
40300878|The new name Matelea endressiae Goes & Fontella is proposed to replace Gonolobus cordatus Malme from Brazil. A new species, M. demuneri Goes & Fontella, from Esprito Santo State, Brazil, is described and illustrated. Matelea demuneri is similar to M. endressiae and M. maritima (Jacquin) Woodson subsp. cearensis (Malme) Fontella, but it is distinguished from the first by its shorter pedicel and corolla tube, pubescent corona, and follicles with short projections, and from the second by its mixed indumentum, inflorescence with peduncle, greenpurple corolla, rounded 5-lobed corona, shorter pollinia, and follicles with short prickles. /// Um novo nome, Matelea endressiae Goes & Fontella,  apresentado como substituto para Gonolobus cordatus Malme, e uma nova espcie, M. demuneri Goes & Fontella, do Estado do Esprito Santo, Brasil,  descrita e ilustrada. Matelea demuneri  similar a M. endressiae e M. maritima (Jacquin) Woodson subsp. cearensis (Malme) Fontella, porm se distingue da primeira por apresentar pedicelos e tubo da corola menores, corona pubescente e folculos com projees menores, e da segunda, por apresentar indumento misto, inflorescncias pedunculadas, corola verde-arroxeada, corona aneliforme 5-lobada, polnias menores e folculos com projees menores.
20406128|Three new fasciculate flowered species of Salacia L. (Celastraceae, Hippocrateoideae) from the Amazon basin are described: S. acevedoi Lombardi is distinguished by its small flowers, stamens with short filaments, disc connate to ovary, and size of fruits; S. negrensis Lombardi differs by its habit, characteristics and shape of leaves, flower diameter, features and size of stamens, and number of ovules; and S. odorata Lombardi is characterized by its long pedicels, conical flower buds, strongly adherent petals, and flat disc with fimbriate outer border. /// So descritas para a bacia amaznica trs novas espcies de Salacia L. (Celastraceae, Hippocrateoideae) com inflorescncias fasciculadas, S. acevedoi Lombardi a qual se distingue pelos estames pequenos com filetes curtos, disco conado ao ovrio e pelo tamanho dos frutos; S. negrensis Lombardi difere pelo hbito, caractersticas e forma das folhas, dimetro da flor, caractersticas e tamanho dos estames, e nmero de vulos; e S. odorata Lombardi  caracterizada pelos pedicelos longos, botes florais cnicos, ptalas fortemente aderentes e disco achatado com margem externa fimbriada.
10.2307/3392245|A new species, Aristida tuitensis from El Tuito, Jalisco, Mexico, is described and illustrated, and its distribution and ecology are discussed. It belongs to Aristida sect. Streptachne and is distinguished from A. schiedeana by its spreading inflorescence, shorter spikelets, and the lack of dentate glumes, and from A. hintonii by its inflorescence shape, the internode, and sheath length. A table summarizing the differences and similarities among the three species is presented.
10.2307/3393120|Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie de Schwartzia, S. parrae. La nueva especie se conoce nicamente de la Cordillera Central Andina de Colombia (Departamento de Antioquia). Se presenta una clave para distinguir las especies colombianas de Schwartzia. /// A new species of Schwartzia, S. parrae, is described and illustrated. The new species is known only from the Andean Central Cordillera of Colombia (Departamento de Antioquia). A key for the Colombian species of Schwartzia is provided.
40300924|A new species, Petrocosmea xingyiensis Y. G. Wei & F. Wen, is described and illustrated from Maling Gorge, Xingyi County, Guizhou Province, China. The new species differs from related species in the genus by its narrowly oblanceolate leaves that are pubescent on both surfaces.
10.2307/3393570| We describe and illustrate a new species of Solanum (Solanaceae) from southern Brazil. Solanum pseudodaphnopsis belongs to Solanum sect. Geminata and grows in the restinga, a special sandy coastal vegetation complex, in Paran and Santa Catarina states. It resembles morphologically S. cassioides L. B. Smith & Downs and S. arenarium Sendtner, but it can be distinguished from the former by the presence of obovate and leathery leaves and from the latter by its dendritic-echinoid trichomes and narrower leaves. /// Ns descrevemos e ilustramos uma nova espcie de Solanum (Solanaceae) do sul do Brasil. Solanum pseudodaphnopsis pertence a Solanum sect. Geminata e cresce nos solos arenosos da regio costeira do Paran e Santa Catarina. Assemelha-se morfologicamente a Solanum cassioides L. B. Smith & Downs e a S. arenarium Sendtner, podendo ser distinta da primeira espcie pelas folhas obovadas e coriceas e da segunda pelos tricomas dendrtico-equinides e folhas mais estreitas. 
3393489| Se ilustra y describe a Magnolia krusei (Magnoliaceae), una especie nueva del estado de Guerrero, Mxico. Magnolia krusei es afn a M. iltisiana A. Vzquez y a M. tamaulipana A. Vzquez, pero difiere de stas por presentar flores y folculos de menor tamao. Tambin se incluye una clave dicotmica para distinguir las especies afines a este nuevo taxn. /// Magnolia krusei (Magnoliaceae), a new species from the state of Guerrero, Mexico, is illustrated and described. It is related to M. iltisiana A. Vzquez and M. tamaulipana A. Vzquez, but differs from these by its smaller flowers and follicles. A dichotomous key for distinguishing all related taxa to this new taxon is also included. 
27765211|Eight new species of Lauraceae from Andean South America and Panama are described and illustrated. Two belong to the genus Cinnamomum Schaeffer, C. lanigerum van der Werff and C. formicarium van der Werff & Lorea-Hernndez, both from Ecuador; one species belongs to Ocotea Aublet, O. pacifica van der Werff, from Ecuador and Colombia; and five belong to Pleurothyrium Nees, P. bilocellatum van der Werff, P. cordatum van der Werff, and P. obscurinerve van der Werff from Ecuador, P. pascoense van der Werff from Peru, and P. triflorum van der Werff from Panama.
20406259|Three species of farinose ferns traditionally included in the large, polymorphic genus Cheilanthes Swartz are transferred to the genus Notholaena R. Brown as N. aureolina Yatskievych & Arbelez, N. jaliscana Yatskievych & Arbelez, and N. ochracea (Hooker) Yatskievych & Arbelez. Additionally, a Central American novelty is described as a new species, N. montielae Yatskievych & Arbelez, with a type from Nicaragua.
20406214|Quadrella incana (Kunth) Iltis & Cornejo is transferred from Capparis L. to Quadrella (DC.) J. Presl, and the name is lectotypified. The taxon occurs from southeastern Texas, south to Mexico, Guatemala, and northern Honduras. /// Quadrella incana (Kunth) Iltis & Cornejo es transferida desde Capparis L. a Quadrella (DC.) J. Presl, y su lectotipo es aqu designado. Esta especie se encuentra distribuida desde el sudeste de Texas y hacia el sur, a travs de Mxico y Guatemala hasta el norte de Honduras.
10.2307/3392265|Muhlenbergia aguascalientensis, from Sierra Fra, Aguascalientes, Mexico, is described and illustrated. A tabular comparison with its related species, M. durangensis Herrera and M. michisensis Herrera & Peterson, is given.
3393506| The Chinese endemic Stachyurus yunnanensis Franchet is lectotypified. Stachyurus callosus C. Y. Wu ex S. K. Chen, also endemic to China, is referred to synonymy of S. yunnanensis based on the two entities having inseparable leaf characters and a sympatric distribution. Stachyurus esquirolii H. Lveill is regarded as a synonym of S. yunnanensis, as in Li's and Lauener's previous treatments of this taxon. 
10.2307/3391837|Siparuna croatii and S. palenquensis from central and Pacific Ecuador, respectively, S. gigantotepala from Pacific Colombia and Ecuador, and S. harlingii from the eastern Andean slopes of Colombia and Ecuador are described, illustrated, and discussed as to their relationships with morphologically similar species.
10.2307/3392067|Se presenta la descripcin e ilustracin de tres especies nuevas de la familia Piperaceae, Peperomia alwynii, Piper curvinervium y Piper dolichostylum, las cuales crecen hacia el sur de la regin andina colombiana; as mismo se discuten para cada especie sus relaciones de parentesco, distribucin geogrfica, ecologa y hbitat. /// Three new species of Piperaceae, Peperomia alwynii, Piper curvinervium, and Piper dolichostylum, from the southern Andes region of Colombia, are described and illustrated, and their relationships, geographical distribution, habitat, and ecology are discussed.
10.2307/3391765|Paulownia catalpifolia, previously invalidly described, is validated.
20406268|The new species Anthurium loretense Croat was invalidly published in 1991, lacking a Latin diagnosis. This oversight is corrected with the validation of the name.
10.2307/3391647|Two new species are described, Passiflora kawensis of subgenus Astrophea and Passiflora exura of subgenus Passiflora. Both species are common in northeastern French Guiana on Montagne de Kaw. Passiflora kawensis has an umbrellashaped structure on the androgynophore shared with only three species from southern Brazil and Bolivia. Passiflora exura is easily distinguished from related species by the structure of the corona and the size of the awn on the sepals.
10.2307/3391921|A new combination is made in the fern genus Polystichum: P. crinulosum (Desvaux) J. P. Roux.
10.2307/3393365| Graptopetalum glassii from Colima, Mexico, is described and illustrated. It is closely related to G. pentandrum, differing in being smaller and in having a herbaceous habit and a larger number of oblanceolate pale green leaves. Graptopetalum pentandrum subsp. superbum is raised to species rank. Characters that support the change of status are a larger size of the plants, a squamose surface of the stem, a pink-violet color of the rosette, oblong-obovate leaves, and a profusely branched inflorescence. /// Graptopetalum glassii de Colima, Mxico, es descrita e ilustrada. Est cercanamente relacionada con G. pentandrum; sin embargo, difiere en poseer un menor tamao, un hbito herbceo con un mayor nmero de hojas oblanceoladas de color verde mas plido. Graptopetalum pentandrum subsp. superbum es elevada a nivel de especie. Caracteres que apoyan el cambio de estatus son un tamao mas grande, una superficie del tallo escamosa, un color rosa-violeta de la roseta, hojas oblongo-obovadas y un mayor nmero de ramas en la inflorescencia. 
40300908|Draba calcifuga Lesica (Brassicaceae) is an alpine species of the Rocky Mountains of Montana, Idaho, and Wyoming, U. S. A., restricted to noncalcareous soils. It has been confused with the sympatric D. oligosperma Hooker because both species are similar in habit, leaf size and shape, fruit size and shape, style length, and in the presence of doubly pectinate trichomes on the leaves. However, D. calcifuga has cilia and pectinate trichomes with crisped branches that do not occur in D. oligosperma. Draba calcifuga demonstrates low pollen stainability throughout its range, suggesting it is agamospermous. Although D. oligosperma is agamospermous over most of its range, it is sexual in its area of sympatry with D. calcifuga, suggesting that the latter may be derived from the former. Draba calcifuga is described and compared to four other species with doubly pectinate trichomes from the Rocky Mountain region.
10.2307/3391989|A new species of Crateva L. is described from the Marojejy Massif in northeast Madagascar. It differs from previously described species in having simple obovate leaves with a rounded apex. The species is deciduous and flowers soon after the leaves emerge, indicating that it is a member of section Siccoruba Jacobs.
20406041|Two species new to Solanum sect. Basarthrum (Bitter) Bitter are described. Solanum perlongistylum G. J. Anderson, Martine, Prohens & Nuez and S. catilliflorum G. J. Anderson, Martine, Prohens & Nuez are narrowly distributed species from southern Peru in the group that includes the Andean domesticate S. muricatum Aiton and are very closely related to the widespread S. caripense Dunal. Solanum catilliflorum bears small, dish-shaped flowers (for which it is named) and is self-compatible and autogamous, with short styles like those that characterize all self-compatible species in this section. It also has a low pollen:ovule ratio, which is characteristic of self-compatible species in the group. On the other hand, the style of the self-incompatible S. perlongistylum is the longest in the group, and its flowers have a higher pollen:ovule ratio. Both species are diploid at n = 12. We hypothesize that these two species may be peripheral isolates from the widespread and variable S. caripense.
10.2307/3391910|Secamonopsis microphylla sp. nov., from dry southern Madagascar, is described, illustrated, and compared to S. madagascariensis Jumelle, the only other known species of this genus.
10.2307/3391896|A new species, Stenopadus andicola (Asteraceae: Mutisieae), is described from the Cordillera del Condor, Ecuador. It is the first member of the genus reported outside the Guayana Highland and is a new generic record for Ecuador. Stenopadus andicola is placed in section Stenopadus.
20406283|We describe two new varieties of the North American species complex Packera paupercula (Michaux) . Lve & D. Lve (Asteraceae, Senecioneae): variety savannarum R. R. Kowal from the American upper Midwest and variety appalachiana A. M. Mahoney from the southeastern United States. The new combination P. paupercula var. pseudotomentosa (Mackenzie & Bush) R. R. Kowal from the Midwest is also established. Because of their pubescence, these varieties have been previously included within a broadly circumscribed P. plattensis (Nuttall) W. A. Weber &  Lve. Their recognition is based on a biosystematic study, which included morphological and ecological observations in the field and in a transplant garden experiment, and chromosome counts.
10.2307/3391469|Claytonia here includes all annual Montia species with principally basal leaves and scapiform inflorescences bearing one pair of free or fused cauline leaves. Three morphologically distinctive diploids define the basic species of a polymorphic polyploid complex formerly named C. perfoliata sensu lato. In this complex, we propose two new subspecies, C. perfoliata subsp. intermontana and C. parviflora subsp. grandiflora, and four subspecific combinations. A perfoliate-leaved subspecies of C. exigua is newly recognized.
43288935|Erigeron pacalis Bjrk (Asteraceae) is a new species found only in the Peace River Grasslands of northeastern British Columbia, Canada. Its characteristics (short stature, leathery leaves, vestiture of mixed glandular and nonglandular hairs, and white rays) distinguish it from E. glabellus Nutt. and E. asper Nutt., the latter of which has appeared only in synonymy under E. glabellus according to most recent authors, but which shows consistent distinctions that merit its resurrection from synonymy.
10.2307/3392054|Study of Caesalpiniaceae collections from the Venezuelan Guayana has revealed the first known occurrences of Jacqueshuberia in the region, with two new species, J. splendens from Cerro Aracamuni in southern Amazonas state and J. pustulata from the Ro Autana watershed in northern Amazonas state. /// El estudio de colecciones de Caesalpiniaceae de la Guayana venezolana ha resultado en el primer reporte del gnero Jacqueshuberia de la regin, con dos especies nuevas, J. splendens de Cerro Aracamuni, al sur del Estado Amazonas, y J. pustulata de la cuenca del ro Autana al norte del Estado Amazonas.
10.2307/3392013|Randia nicaraguensis Lorence & Dwyer from Nicaragua is described and illustrated. Two new combinations are proposed for Mesoamerican Gardenieae: Randia genipifolia (Standley & Steyermark) Lorence, based on Duroia genipifolia Standley & Steyermark, and Randia armata (Swartz) DC. subsp. panamensis (Standley) Lorence, based on Randia panamensis Standley.
10.2307/3392246|A new section of Ouratea, section Caducae Sastre, and eight new species of Ouratea from Venezuela and adjacent countries are described: O. pendulosepala Sastre (sect. Cardiocarpae), O. oligantha Steyermark ex Sastre (sect. Cardiocarpae), O. apurensis Sastre (sect. Ouratea), O. paratatei Sastre (sect. Ouratea), O. cidiana Sastre (sect. Ouratella), O. guriensis Sastre (sect. Ouratella), O. pseudoguildingii Sastre (sect. Ouratella), and O. squamata Sastre (sect. Ouratella).
10.2307/3392949|Described is Sphaeralcea gierischii N. D. Atwood & S. L. Welsh, sp. nov., which is distinguished from S. rusbyi by the glabrous or glabrescent herbage, with few or no stellate hairs confined to the leaf margin, larger (15-25 mm long) flowers, and restricted range and habitat, and from S. moorei in the 3- to 5-parted, narrow leaf lobes, bright green leaves sometimes suffused with red-purple, and different habitat. Two varieties are evaluated at the species level within Sphaeralcea based on different morphological features, geographical distribution, and habitat: S. moorei (S. L. Welsh) N. D. Atwood & S. L. Welsh, stat. nov., and S. fumariensis (S. L. Welsh & N. D. Atwood) N. D. Atwood & S. L. Welsh, stat. nov. A key to the closely related taxa is included, and each of the taxa is provided with a description. The geographical distribution and ecology in southern Utah and northern Arizona, U.S.A., are also discussed.
20406011|Cyrtopodium macedoi, a new species (Orchidaceae, Cymbidieae, Cyrtopodiinae) from the cerrado vegetation of central Brazil, is described and illustrated. The species was first collected in 1951 but was subsequently misidentified as C. vernum. The principal distinctive character for C. macedoi is the basal portion of the corolla lip and the region between the lateral lobes, which is strongly deflexed and almost parallel to the lip midlobe. Cyrtopodium macedoi appears to be rare and so far known only from two sites in the Tringulo Mineiro region of the western part of the state of Minas Gerais in southeastern Brazil. /// Cyrtopodium macedoi, uma nova espcie (Orchidaceae, Cymbidieae, Cyrtopodiinae) do Cerrado do Brasil central,  descrito e ilustrado. A espcie foi coletada pela primeira vez em 1951, mas identificada erroneamente como C. vernum. A principal caracterstica distintiva da espcie  a base e a regio da corola entre os lobos laterais do labelo fortemente deflexa, quase paralela ao lobo mediano. A espcie parece ser rara e at o momento, conhecida de apenas duas localidades na regio do Tringulo Mineiro, no oeste estado de Minas Gerais, no sudeste do Brasil.
40856293|A new species of Leguminosae (Caesalpinioideae), Browneopsis sanintiae Silverst., is described from the northern end of the Cauca Valley in the department of Risaralda, in western Colombia. It resembles the Amazonian species B. ucayalina Huber, but differs in having one vestigial petal or lacking petals (vs. three to four vestigial petals in B. ucalayina), fewer stamens, and pollen usually monoporate (vs. tetraporate in B. ucayalina). This is the first report of the genus Browneopsis Huber from the Cauca Valley. Una nueva especie de Leguminosae (Caesalpinioideae), Browneopsis sanintiae Silverst., se describe del extremo septentrional del valle geogrfico del ro Cauca, en el departamento de Risaralda, en la parte occidental de Colombia. La especie nueva se asemeja a la especie amaznica solo ptalo rudimentario la prdida total de los ptalos (vs. tres a cuatro ptalos rudimentarios en B. ucayalina), menos estambres, y polen usualmente monoporado (vs. tetraporado en B. ucayalina). Este es el primer reporte del gnero Browneopsis Huber del valle geogrfico del ro Cauca.
10.2307/3393510|The Tajikistan endemic Arabidopsis bactriana is transferred to Dielsiocharis, a genus previously recognized as monotypic. Detailed description of A. bactriana is provided, and a key distinguishing the two species of Dielsiocharis is given.
10.2307/3392188|A taxonomic revision of Paeonia in Xizang is presented, and of the five species recognized, P. ludlowii, P. sterniana, P. delavayi, P. emodi, and P. veitchii, the first two are endemic. A new combination, P. ludlowii (Stern & Taylor) Hong, is proposed. A considerable search for P. moutan var. atava in its type locality led to the conclusion that the taxon is P. rockii subsp. rockii, a native of north-central China introduced to Xizang by Buddhist monks. Reproductive and other biological features of the woody P. ludlowii and P. delavayi are described. A key to species is given.
3393494|Two undescribed species of Hypericum (Clusiaceae) have been found during floristic research in Korea. Hypericum chejuense S.-J. Park & K.-J. Kim and H. jeongjocksanense S.-J. Park & K.-J. Kim are described and illustrated from Cheju Island in southern Korea and Jeongjock Mountain in southeastern Korea, respectively. Hypericum chejuense and H. jeongjocksanense are easily distinguished from the closely related H. erectum Thunberg ex Murray and H. laxum (Blume) Koidzumi, respectively, by their habit, petal and sepal size, inflorescence type, style length, stylar hair distribution, leaf base shape, stem branching pattern, sepal size, and DNA sequence from the nuclear ITS regions.
10.2307/3393255|As part of a revision of Chinese Pittosporum Banks ex Gaertner for the forthcoming account of Pittosporaceae in the Flora of China, Volume 9, it is necessary to publish seven new combinations. All of the taxa were originally described at specific rank. Six are morphologically similar to five other species, under which they are reduced to varieties: Pittosporum balansae Aug. DC. var. chatterjeeanum (Gowda) Zhi Y. Zhang & Turland, comb. et stat. nov., Pittosporum glabratum Lindley var. wenxianense (G. H. Wang & Y. S. Lian) Zhi Y. Zhang & Turland, comb. et stat. nov., Pittosporum kweichowense Gowda var. buxifolium (K. M. Feng ex C. Y. Wu) Zhi Y. Zhang & Turland, comb. et stat. nov., Pittosporum kweichowense var. podocarpifolium (C. Y. Wu) Zhi Y. Zhang & Turland, comb. et stat. nov., Pittosporum podocarpum Gagnepain var. hejiangense (H. Y. Su) Zhi Y. Zhang & Turland, comb. et stat. nov., and Pittosporum rehderianum Gowda var. ternstroemioides (C. Y. Wu) Zhi Y. Zhang & Turland, comb. et stat. nov. The remaining new combination is Pittosporum pentandrum (Blanco) Merrill var. formosanum (Hayata) Zhi Y. Zhang & Turland, comb. nov., which is the correct name at varietal rank under P. pentandrum when P. formosanum Hayata var. formosanum and variety hainanense Gagnepain are considered to be synonyms.
3393329| Three new species of Bomarea (Alstroemeriaceae), B. caucana, B. euryantha, and B. straminea, found during a revision of the genus for the Flora of Colombia, are described and illustrated and their relationships discussed. /// Se describen e ilustran tres nuevas especies de Bomarea (Alstroemeriaceae), B. caucana, B. euryantha y B. straminea, encontradas durante la revisin del gnero para la Flora de Colombia, y se discuten sus relaciones. 
10.2307/3392239|Nolina parryi subsp. wolfii is shown to be a synonym of N. parryi subsp. parryi. Consequently, N. parryi subsp. parryi sensu Munz has been misinterpreted and is without a name. Nolina cismontana is proposed as the name for this undescribed taxon.
10.2307/3392127|The genus Rhodocalyx is reduced to synonymy under Prestonia. A new combination, P. erecta, is proposed here.
10.2307/3392142|New combinations in Arnica L. and Monolopia DC. are made in light of evidence from a phylogenetic study of helenioid Heliantheae that each of the two genera is paraphyletic. Transfers herein of Whitneya dealbata A. Gray to Arnica and Lembertia congdonii (A. Gray) Greene to Monolopia allow for circumscriptions of Arnica and Monolopia that better reflect phylogenetic relationships.
27765200|Recientes estudios de Asclepiadoideae (Apocynaceae) del sur y oeste de Mxico permiti el descubrimiento de un nuevo taxn que se describe e ilustra como Gonolobus spiranthus Jurez-Jaimes, W. D. Stevens & Lozada-Prez. Se caracteriza por tener un ginostegio conspicuamente estipitado, una corola tubular de ms de 12 mm de largo e inflada en la base, los lbulos de la corola fuertemente espiralados, y apndices dorsales de las anteras triangular-sagitados y carnosos. La ausencia de un anillo faucial en la corola la incluye en el subgnera Pseudolachnostoma Woodson. Recent studies of the Asclepiadoideae (Apocynaceae) in southern and western Mexico have revealed a new species here described and illustrated as Gonolobus spiranthus Jurez-Jaimes, W. D. Stevens & Lozada-Prez. This species is distinguished by having a tubular corolla more than 12 mm long that is inflated at the base, strongly spiraled corolla lobes, and dorsal anther appendages that are triangular and sagittate as well as fleshy. The lack of a faucal annulus in the corolla includes it in the subgenus Pseudolachnostoma Woodson.
10.2307/3391480|The following new taxa of ferns, Asplenium barclayanum, A. salicifolium var. aequilaterale, A. seileri, Diplazium atirrense var. lobulatum, D. chimuense, D. chiriquense, D. croatianum, D. gomezianum, D. hammelianum, D. matudae, D. moranii, D. panamense, D. tutense, have been revealed through research carried out in the preparation of contributions for Flora Mesoamericana.
10.2307/3393188|A colored painting from the Sess and Mocio expedition serves as the holotype for the validly published name Grindelia angustifolia DC. ex Dunal, 1819 (= Grindelia dunalii Sprengel, nom. nov., 1825; non Grindelia angustifolia Kunth, in HBK, 1818). The illustration represents the species heretofore identified as Keerlia linearifolia DC., 1836 (= Gutierrezia alamanii A. Gray, nom. nov., 1852; non Gutierrezia linearifolia Lagasca & Segura, 1816), which occurs in the south-central Mexican states of Mxico and Morelos. Gutierrezia dunalii (Sprengel) Nesom, comb. nov., is proposed as the earliest valid name for this species. Gutierrezia megalocephala (Fernald) Nesom is proposed for a closely related entity (Gutierrezia alamanii var. megalocephala (Fernald) Lane = Xanthocephalum megalocephalum Fernald).
10.2307/3392143|New combinations and new genera for species in Hemizonia DC., Madia Molina, and Raillardiopsis Rydberg allow for a revised, practical taxonomy of Madiinae that better reflects phylogenetic relationships. Reinstatement of Anisocarpus Nuttall, Centromadia Greene, Deinandra Greene, and Hemizonella A. Gray, abandonment of Raillardiopsis Rydberg, and recognition of four new genera (Carlquistia, Harmonia, Jensia, Kyhosia) for tarweed lineages without available generic names result from changes in circumscription based on monophyletic groups.
3393288|Described as new are Eriocaulon huanchacanum, a caulescent rheophyte endemic to Bolivia with capillary leaves and non-aerenchymatous roots, and Syngonanthus dichroanthus of Brazil and Bolivia, a rosulate annual with filiform leaves and staminate and pistillate flowers of contrasting colors. Syngonanthus latifolius of Mato Grosso, Brazil, based on S. gracilis var. latifolius Moldenke, is dimorphic both for flower color and size, and is here raised to species rank due to these previously undescribed characters.
3393292|Alyogyne cravenii Fryxell (Malvaceae) is transferred to Hibiscus cravenii (Fryxell) B. E. Pfeil & Craven on account of character information from the chloroplast, nucleus, and morphology. These data do not place A. cravenii with its congeners A. hakeifolia, A. huegelii, and A. pinoniana, instead placing it with H. sects. Bombicella and Hibiscus.
3393447| Following the results of a recent phylogenetic study showing that the genus Jacquinia is paraphyletic, the following new combinations in the genus Bonellia are made (all by Sthl & Kllersj): B. albiflora (Lundell), B. brevifolia (Urban), B. flammea (Millspaugh ex Mez), B. frutescens (Miller), B. lippoldii (Lepper), B. longifolia (Standley), B. loeflingii (Carrasquel), B. macrocarpa (Cavanilles), B. macrocarpa (Cavanilles) Sthl & Kllersj subsp. pungens (A. Gray), B. macrocarpa (Cavanilles) Sthl & Kllersj subsp. panamensis (Lundell), B. montana (Sthl), B. mucronata (Roemer & Schultes), B. nervosa (Presl), B. nitida (Sthl), B. paludicula (Standley), B. pringlei (Bartlett), B. pauciflora (Sthl & F. Axelrod), B. shaferi (Urban), B. seleriana (Urban & Loesner ex Mez), B. sprucei (Mez), B. stenophylla (Urban), and B. umbellata (A. DC). The genus Bonellia is distinguished from Jacquinia s. str. by its mostly orange flowers and alternate leaves, flattened seeds that are incompletely covered by placental tissue, and two-layered testa. A key to the genera of the Theophrastaceae is presented. 
3393311|Didymoplexiella hainanensis X. H. Jin & S. C. Chen, a new species of Orchidaceae from Hainan, China, is described and illustrated. The new species is related to D. ornata (Ridley) Garay, from which it differs by the dorsal sepal briefly connate with the petals, the lateral sepals connate 1/4 to 1/3 at base, an articulate lip, and larger lateral lobes.
27765194|Preparation of an account of Melaleuca L. (Myrtaceae) for Flora of Australia resulted in the recognition of nine new species and three subspecies of Melaleuca. The following are newly described from Australia: from Queensland: M. hemisticta S. T. Blake ex Craven, M. lazaridis Craven, M. montis-zamiae Craven, M. phratra Craven, M. pyramidalis Craven, M. quercina Craven, M. viminalis (Solander ex Gaertner) Byrne subsp. rhododendron Craven, M. williamsii Craven subsp. fletcheri Craven; from New South Wales: M. megalongensis Craven & S. M. Douglas, M. serpentina Craven, M. williamsii subsp. synoriensis Craven; and from Queensland and New South Wales: M. sabrina Craven. The recently described Callistemon wimmerensis Marriott & G. W. Carr is transferred to Melaleuca as M. wimmerensis (Marriott & G. W. Carr) Craven.
3393336| Se describe e ilustra a Calochortus mendozae Espejo, Lpez-Ferrari & Ceja, especie conocida hasta ahora del municipio de San Nicols Tolentino, en el estado de San Luis Potos, Mxico, en donde crece sobre taludes yesosos, en vegetacin de matorrral xerfito. La nueva especie se ubica dentro de la subseccin Ghiesbreghtiani de la seccin Cyclobothra del gnero Calochortus y la especie ms cercana al nuevo taxon es C. hintonii Bullock ex Ownbey, con la cual se compara. /// Calochortus mendozae Espejo, Lpez-Ferrari & Ceja, a new species from the municipality of San Nicols Tolentino in the state of San Luis Potos, Mexico, is described and illustrated. The new species grows on gypseous soils in xerophytic scrub. Calochortus mendozae is placed in section Cyclobothra subsection Ghiesbreghtiani and is closely related to C. hintonii Bullock ex Ownbey, with which it is compared. 
20406351|During preparation of the taxonomic treatment of Elaphoglossaceae for the Flora of China, Volume 3, it was noticed that the following nomenclatural actions were necessary for the forthcoming account of Elaphoglossum Schott ex J. Smith: the new combination E. luzonicum Copeland var. mcclurei (Ching) F. G. Wang & F. W. Xing is made, and E. spongophyllum P. R. Bell ex Holttum is newly synonymized to it. In addition, E. luzonicum var. mcclurei is lectotypified, and E. sinii C. Christensen ex Wu is epitypified.
10.2307/3391903|Trifolium jokerstii (Leguminosae, Papilionoideae), a new species from Butte County, California, is described and illustrated. It is morphologically similar to T. barbigerum and T. grayi, from which it differs in stipule shape, flower color, seed size, and lack of pubescence.
20406135|Bulbostylis medusae Prata, Reynders & Goetghebeur from Venezuela is fully described and illustrated. This species differs from all other South American Bulbostylis Kunth species by the combination of long-ciliated leaf sheaths, leaf apices, bracts, and spikelet axes. The new species resembles B. sellowiana (Kunth) Palla, and a comparison of the two species is made.
10.2307/3391838|Two heretofore unknown species of Lesquerella are described. These occur in limited areas in the mountains of central and western Montana. Both species, here named L. lesicii and L. pulchella, occur in patches of limestone-derived soils and rubble that are conspicuously barren of trees and shrubs and other types of plant cover, or on the borders of such areas where the limestone detritus meets soils and rubble of crystalline rocks. Also, they are often found in open areas in sparse stands of low-growing trees or shrubs.
10.2307/3391931|Triticum aestivum subsp. yunnanense King ex S. L. Chen from Qinghai Province, China, is described as new. In addition, a new combination in Psathyrostachys, 18 new combinations in Elymus, and 2 new combinations in Kengyilia are proposed.
3393294|Hyperacanthus mandenensis Rakotonasolo & A. P. Davis is described as a new species on the basis of its large corolla (10.5-16.5 cm long), included style, and thick fibrous fruit wall (6-10 mm thick). No other species of Hyperacanthus E. Meyer ex Bridson possess these characters: H. ambovombensis Rakotonasolo & A. P. Davis, H. amoenus (Sims) Bridson, H. grevei Rakotonasolo & A. P. Davis, and H. microphyllus (K. Schumann) Bridson all have small corolla tubes (less than 5 cm long), a style that is positioned more or less level with the corolla throat, and a thin non-fibrous fruit wall (less than 3 mm thick). Hyperacanthus mandenensis is restricted to the forests of Petriky, Mandena, and St. Luce, in an area corresponding to a proposed mining site, in southeastern Madagascar (Toliara Province). Using the IUCN Red List Category criteria, H. mandenensis is currently assessed as Endangered, although without appropriate conservation measures this species would easily become Critically Endangered, or even Extinct.
20406182|Eight new species of Stenospermation Schott and Xanthosoma Schott (Araceae) from Bajo Calima, Colombia, are described as new: Stenospermation ellipticum Croat & D. C. Bay, S. escobariae Croat & D. C. Bay, S. flavum Croat & D. C. Bay, S. glaucophyllum Croat & D. C. Bay, S. monsalvae Croat & D. C. Bay, S. velutinum Croat & D. C. Bay, Xanthosoma guttatum Croat & D. C. Bay, and X. hebetatum Croat & D. C. Bay. /// Ocho nuevas especies de Stenospermation Schott y Xanthosoma Schott (Araceae) de Bajo Calima, Colombia se describe como nueva: Stenospermation ellipticum Croat & D. C. Bay, S. escobariae Croat & D. C. Bay, S. flavum Croat & D. C. Bay, S. glaucophyllum Croat & D. C. Bay, S. monsalvae Croat & D. C. Bay, S. velutinum Croat & D. C. Bay, Xanthosoma guttatum Croat & D. C. Bay y X. hebetatum Croat & D. C. Bay.
10.2307/3392090|The plant long called Senecio new-combei Greene is a distinctive endemic of the Queen Charlotte Islands, B.C., Canada. Microcharacters, cytology, and gross morphology indicate its affinities with the tussilaginoid group of the Senecioneae and with the East Asian genus Sinosenecio. The new nomenclatural combination is made: Sinosenecio newcombei (Greene) J. P. Janovec & T. M. Barkley.
3393470| Se hace una relacin de las especies de Lonchocarpus sect. Lonchocarpus para Bolivia. De las cinco especies conocidas, cuatro resultaron nuevas para la ciencia. Se describen, ilustran y mapean Lonchocarpus lomentaceus, L. neei, L. riparius y L. sericophyllus, todas ellas endmicas a Bolivia. Las cinco especies de la sect. Lonchocarpus se contrastan en una clave dicotmica. /// An account of section Lonchocarpus of the genus Lonchocarpus for Bolivia is given. Of the five species found, four were new to science, all of them endemic to Bolivia, Lonchocarpus lomentaceus, L. neei, L. riparius, and L. sericophyllus are described, illustrated, and mapped. A key to distinguish the species of section Lonchocarpus is provided. 
10.2307/3391694|The distinguishing characters between the closely related Limonium chrysocomum and L. semenovii are given. The new combinations L. semenovii var. chrysocephalum and L. semenovii var. sedoides are proposed, and a key separating these varieties is presented.
20406131|Phacelia sonoitensis S. P. McLaughlin (Hydrophyllaceae) from Santa Cruz County, Arizona, U.S.A., is described and illustrated. The distinctive features of this species are its combination of pinnate leaves and several shallowly cymbiform seeds. The number of seeds per capsule (15 to 30) and seed morphology are not consistent with any currently recognized section of the genus. /// En este trabajo se describe e ilustra Phacelia sonoitensis S. P. McLaughlin (Hydrophyllaceae) del condado de Santa Cruz en Arizona, EE. UU. Las caractersticas distintivas son sus hojas pinnadas y varias semillas ligeramente cimbiformes. El nmero de semillas por cpsula (15 a 30) y la morfologa de las semillas no concuerdan con ninguna seccin del gnero reconocida actualmente.
20406344|Morphological and molecular analyses of Arceuthobium aureum Hawksworth & Wiens and A. globosum Hawksworth & Wiens (Viscaceae) demonstrated that these taxa are closely related but can be distinguished based on a few morphological differences, phenology, and host ranges. Therefore, the taxa previously treated under A. aureum are recombined under A. globosum: A. globosum subsp. aureum (Hawksworth & Wiens) Mathiasen and A. globosum subsp. petersonii (Hawksworth & Wiens) Mathiasen.
23259412|Pseudostellaria longipedicellata S. Lee, K. Heo & S. C. Kim is newly described from the Taebaek Mountain Range across three eastern provinces (i.e., Gangwon, Chungcheongbuk, and Gyeongsangbuk) of the Korean Peninsula. Pseudostellaria longipedicellata is similar to P. palibiniana (Takeda) Ohwi by having an open flower, glabrous pedicel, and slender taproots, but differs by its shorter, decumbent, and slender stems, oblanceolate leaves distally changing to elliptic or narrowly ovate, and the fertile pedicel that elongates to the ground when bearing fruit. A dichotomous key to the Korean species of Pseudostellaria Pax is provided in this paper. Also discussed are the major differences of P. longipedicellata from its congeners, and the new species' possible pollination and dispersal mechanisms.
10.2307/3391654|Vellozia stenocarpa Mello-Silva sp. nov. (Velloziaceae) is distinguished by very narrow fruits and quickly deciduous leaf blades. Morphoanatomic descriptions, illustrations, and comments on taxonomic relationships are presented. A new combination is made: Barbacenia riparia (N. L. Menezes & Mello-Silva) Mello-Silva. Three species are relegated to the synonymy of B. markgrafii SchulzeMenz, and the varieties of Vellozia marcescens L. B. Smith are merged. Distribution and morphological variation are discussed for each species.
20406222|Two new species, Saxifraga xiaozhongdianensis J. T. Pan and S. ludingensis J. T. Pan, from the Saxifragaceae in China are described and illustrated. Of these, S. xiaozhongdianensis is endemic to Zhongdian, Yunnan, and is related to S. brachyphylla Franchet. It differs from S. brachyphylla in the sepals adaxially dark brown glandular-villose and the petals basally subauriculate. Saxifraga ludingensis occurs in Luding, Sichuan, and is very similar to S. egregioides J. T. Pan and S. stellariifolia Franchet. It differs from S. egregioides in the stems brown glandular-villose, the cauline leaves adaxially brown glandular-villose, the sepals spreading in anthesis and abaxially brown glandular-villose, and the petals 5-veined. It differs from S. stellariifolia in the leaves cordate and abaxially glabrous, the sepals abaxially brown glandular-villose, and the petals 4-callose and 5-veined. Saxifraga xiaozhongdianensis and S. ludingensis are apparently endemic to western China and belong to Saxifraga sect. Ciliatae Haworth, emend. J. T. Pan.
10.2307/3391804|Bourreria rinconensis and Tournefortia isabellina are described as new from Costa Rica. Keys are provided to the Costa Rican species of Bourreria and the Central American species of Tournefortia sect. Cyphocema.
23259354|Based on specimen and literature studies of the fern genus Pteris L. from China (Pteridaceae), three species are lectotypified: P. dalhousieae Hook., P. esquirolii H. Christ, and P. henryi H. Christ. Distribution for P. dalhousieae, which is not found in China, is also provided.
10.2307/3391444|Studies of the Bromeliaceae have led to a reevaluation of the four-taxa Tillandsia adpressa Andr assemblage. Herbarium research and field studies show that three of the taxa in the assemblage should be recognized at the specific rank, while the remaining one should be transferred to subspecific status. All taxa are transferred to Racinaea as follows: R. adpressa (Andr) J. R. Grant, R. adpressa subsp. orthiantha (Standley) J. R. Grant, R. miniata (Rauh) J. R. Grant, and R. schumanniana (Wittmack) J. R. Grant. A discussion of the nomenclature, lists of exsiccatae, and a key to the taxa are provided.
10.2307/3393199|The new species Passiflora tarminiana differs from its closest relative by the character combination of very small acicular stipules and large reflexed petals and sepals. This species has escaped detection despite being widely cultivated in South America. Naturalized populations, particularly in Hawai'i, have created problems for conservation of the native flora. In Colombia it is more frequently adopted in industrial cultivation because of its unusual vigor and resistance to fungal diseases. /// La nueva especie Passiflora tarminiana difiere de su pariente ms cercano por la combinacin de caracteres de las estpulas aciculares muy pequeas y los ptalos y spalos grandes y reflexos. Esta especie ha escapado su descubrimiento a pesar de estar extensamente cultivada en Amrica del Sur. Las poblaciones naturalizadas, particularmente en Hawai, han creado problemas para la conservacin de la flora nativa. En Colombia se adopta mas frecuentemente en el cultivo industrial debido a su extremo vigor y resistencia a las enfermedades causadas por hongos.
10.2307/3391532|Ceradenia asthenophylla, C. aulaeifolia, and C. tristis are described from Mesoamerica, and their relationships are discussed. Fifteen species of Ceradenia are now known from the region; all are characterized by peculiar whitish glandular paraphyses and lack of hydathodes. Three new combinations are also made in the genus for Andean species: Ceradenia bishopii, Ceradenia intricata, and C. semiadnata.
10.2307/3391565|Ecological, morphological, and anatomical characters support the recognition of a section, designated here as Botrychium sect. Hiemobotrychium, distinct in the characters described from section Sceptridium. It is monotypic and based on B. lunarioides (Michaux) Sw.
43289111|Tropidia namasiae C. K. Liao, T. P. Lin & M. S. Tang, a new species of Tropidia Lindl. (Orchidaceae, Epidendroideae, Tropidieae) from the Namasia District in southwestern Taiwan, is described and illustrated. The species is mainly characterized by its subopposite and ovate to lanceolate leaves and dorsal sepals (3.5-4 mm), the smallest observed among species of Tropidia in Taiwan. The new species is closely related to T. angustifolia C. L. Yeh & C. S. Leou, but differs in leaf shape, size, and number as well as the number of flowers per raceme. Morphological similarities between these two species can be seen in the shapes of the floral lip and column, as well as lengths of the leaf blades. A key to the six species of Tropidia in Taiwan is also provided.
10.2307/3392089|Schizostylis has the floral synapomorphies of the African genus Hesperantha, including style branches dividing at the mouth of the floral tube, long laxly spreading style branches, and articulated anthers twisted to face inward. The basic chromosome number of Schizostylis, x = 13, is shared in Ixioideae by Hesperantha, Geissorhiza, and a few species of Romulea. Schizostylis then differs from Hesperantha only in its red flowers (occasionally pink) and, more importantly, in its root-stock, a short rhizome. Most species of Hesperantha have white or pink flowers, occasionally yellow or purple, and all have corms with hard woody tunics. We suggest that Schizostylis, which is semi-aquatic and grows along streams in seasonally or permanently waterlogged ground, has acquired a rhizome secondarily by loss of the corm. Neither the rhizome nor the red flower is sufficient grounds to warrant generic separation from Hesperantha.
20406285|Se describe e ilustra una especie nueva para la ciencia, Setaria carinata S. Nozawa & Pensiero, proveniente de Venezuela. Setaria carinata difiere de las especies afines principalmente por poseer 9 a 10 setas por espiguilla, la ornamentacin y lo fuertemente carinado de la lemma superior, y plea inferior angosta. Se presenta una clave para discriminar entre especies afines. /// A new species from Venezuela, Setaria carinata S. Nozawa & Pensiero, is described and illustrated. Setaria carinata differs from closely related species by the number of bristles (nine to 10 per spikelet), the ornamentation of the strongly carinate upper lemma, and its narrow lower palea. An identification key to discriminate between similar species is presented.
20406088|For the forthcoming florula of the Ro Cenepa area in the Department of Amazonas, Peru, the following seven new species of ferns (Pteridophyta) are described: Asplenium eutecnum (Aspleniaceae); Cyathea thelypteroides and C. windischiana (Cyatheaceae); Megalastrum mollis (Dryopteridaceae); Tectaria atropurpurea and T. microsora (Dryopteridaceae); and Thelypteris berlinii (Thelypteridaceae). A new combination is made for Cyathea reginae (Cyatheaceae), which also occurs in this same area; this was previously recognized as a variety of Cyathea macrosora and lacks a name at species rank.
23259345|Tetrorchidium brevifolium Standl. & Steyerm. is reported for the first time from Panama and T. trichotocarpum McPherson is described, differing from those of its congeners also furnished with a 3-carpellate gynoecium and a glabrous cuplike pistillate disk, by its combination of subentire leaves, small petiolar glands, small stipules, near absence of pistillate bracteal glands, densely pubescent ovary, and occurrence in central Panama. A key to the six species of Tetrorchidium Poepp. (Euphorbiaceae) now known to occur in Panama is presented.
10.2307/3393123|Pectis hassleri and P. pumila are new species, the former from the Gran Chaco area of Paraguay and the latter from southwestern Ecuador and northwestern Peru. Pectis hassleri differs from P. odorata by leaves that are glandular-punctate on the adaxial as well as the abaxial surfaces, by longer and wider ligules of the ray florets, and by ray pappi of awns and shorter bristles. Pectis pumila differs from the closely related P. arida by its wider leaves and by its sessile or subsessile capitula with campanulate involucres and obovate phyllaries. A hexaploid chromosome count of 2n = 36<sub>II</sub> is newly reported for P. pumila.
10.2307/3391428|Ericentrodea davidsmithii from Bolivia and E. ramirezii from Colombia are described. A key is provided for the six known species of the Andean genus Ericentrodea.
20406289|The new species Leucas sivadasaniana Sunojkumar (Lamiaceae), collected from the Kudachadri Hills of Karnataka in Peninsular India, is described and illustrated. It is related to L. beddomei (Hooker f.) Sunojkumar & P. Mathew, L. eriostoma Hooker f., and L. lamiifolia Desfontaines, from which the new species differs in having broadly cuneate leaves, long and densely villous bracteoles, a nonciliate calyx mouth, and triangular teeth. This species is included in Leucas sect. Astrodon Bentham.
40300930|Weberbauera arequipa Al-Shehbaz & Montesinos (Brassicaceae), a new species from Peru, is described and illustrated. It is distinguished from the other species of Weberbauera Gilg & Muschler by having ebracteate racemes, persistent sepals and petals, 4-seeded fruits, and a few simple trichomes restricted to the petiolar bases. It is closely related to the Bolivian W. retropila Al-Shehbaz, but differs by the lack of branched trichomes and by having glabrous fruits, smaller flowers, and persistent petals. The IUCN status of the new species is determined as Data Deficient (DD).
10.2307/3392177|A new species of Citharexylum from Ecuador (C. grandiflorum) is described, and its relationships with related species are discussed. This new species can be distinguished from all others in the genus by its significantly larger corolla. /// Se describe una nueva especie del gnero Citharexylum de Ecuador (C. grandiflorum), y se discuten sus relaciones morfolgicas con las especies afines. Esta nueva especie posee las flores de mayor tamao conocidas dentro del gnero Citharexylum.
23259340|Arum cylindraceum Gasp. subsp. pitsyllianum Hadjik., Hand & G. Mans. (Araceae), a rare Cypriot endemic, is described as new. This diploid taxon differs from A. cylindraceum s. str. by the spathe tube that is whitish to greenish white internally with a pale purple horizontal strip just above the base and 34 cm long, the spadix, which is orange to orangish purple, and the anthers and connectives that are orange.
40300932|A new species of Meconopsis Viguier, M. biloba L. Z. An, Shu-Yan Chen & Y. S. Lian (Papaveraceae), from Gansu Province, China, is described and illustrated. The new species is related to M. quintuplinervia Regel by several similar characters, including the basal leaf rosettes, a solitary flower borne on the scape, and the blue petals and filaments. It differs from all known Meconopsis species in China in its bilobed petals.
10.2307/3391375|El estudio de las colecciones neotropicales de la familia Dilleniaceae en el Herbario del Jardn Botnico de Missouri, ha dado como resultado el hallazgo de tres nuevas especies del gnero Doliocarpus (D. chocoensis, D. dressleri, y D. pipolyi) y dos nuevas subespecies (D. dasyanthus subsp. robustus y D. spatulifolius subsp. tuberculatus), las cuales se describen en el presente artculo. Tambin se incluyen discusiones sobre su morfologa y sus relaciones con especies afines. /// Three new species, Doliocarpus chocoensis, D. dressleri, D. pipolyi, and two new subspecies, Doliocarpus dasyanthus subsp. robustus and D. spatulifolius subsp. tuberculatus are described and illustrated, and their phylogenetic relationships are discussed.
20406143|Passiflora venusta R. Vsquez & M. Delanoy, a new species of subgenus Passiflora L. ser. Laurifoliae Killip ex Cervi (Passifloraceae) is described and illustrated. Passiflora venusta differs from the other species belonging to this series by a unique combination of characteristics: flowers are large (ca. 12 cm diam.) and solitary; sepals and petals are white outside and red-purple inside; outside, sepal veins are white whereas petal veins are red; corona filaments are long and the outermost rank of filaments is noticeably shorter and thinner than the second rank; and fruits are 3.9-5.9 cm long with an endocarp no more than 0.5 cm thick. /// Se describe e ilustra Passiflora venusta R. Vsquez & M. Delanoy, una nueva especie del subgnero Passiflora L. ser. Laurifoliae Killip ex Cervi (Passifloraceae). Passiflora venusta se diferencia de otras especies de esta serie por una combinacin de caractersticas nicas: flores grandes y solitarias (ca. 12 cm diam.); spalos y ptalos blancos en la superficie externa, rojo-morados en la superficie interna; en la superficie externa, las nervaduras de los spalos son blancas mientras que las nervaduras de los ptalos son rojas; los filamentos internos de la corona son largos y los filamentos externos notoriamente ms cortos y delgados que los de la segunda fila; y las frutas tienen 3.9-5.9 cm de largo con un endocarpo de mximo 0.5 cm de ancho.
10.2307/3391926|Scaevola hobdyi is a newly described species from the West Maui Mountains, Hawaiian Islands. It is unusual among the other Hawaiian species of Scaevola sect. Scaevola in its linear leaves, apparently small flowers, and compact habit. It is not clear if this species represents a separate introduction from the Australian region or is a highly specialized derivative of the primary Hawaiian lineage. This imperfectly known species has been collected only once and is likely extinct.
10.2307/3391556|Based on studies of herbarium collections, fieldwork in Mexico and Central America, and palynological evidence, two species of Frantzia (F. panamensis and F. venosa) are transferred to Sechium, and a species in this genus (S. chinantlense) from the lowlands of Oaxaca is described as new. A key to the 10 species of Sechium is presented.
10.2307/3391471|Two new combinations at the subspecies level are proposed for Triantha occidentalis (S. Watson) Gates. A brief explanation is provided to account for their being made under this species name and not the presently more widely recognized Tofieldia occidentalis S. Watson.
40300925|Kengyilia zadoiensis S. L. Lu & Y. H. Wu, a new species of Gramineae from Zadoi County, Qinghai Province, China, is described and illustrated. The new species is related to K. kokonorica (Keng ex Keng & S. L. Chen) J. L. Yang, C. Yen & B. R. Baum. Kengyilia zadoiensis is distinguished by auricles on either side of the summit of leaf sheaths, glabrous glumes, muticous glumes that lack awns, lemmas that are 7-9 mm long, with an awn 4-10 mm, and anthers that are yellow-green, ca. 1 mm long.
10.2307/3392093|Exostema coulteri Hooker f. is transferred to the monotypic genus Syringantha Standley, and the new combination Syringantha coulteri (Hooker f.) T. McDowell is made. Analysis of leaf, flower, fruit, and pollen characters indicates the affinities of Syringantha are with the tribe Hamelieae. A description, illustrations, and micrographs of pollen and leaves of S. coulteri (Hooker f.) T. McDowell are provided.
43288946|Bauhinia hekouensis T. Y. Tu & D. X. Zhang (Leguminosae, Caesalpinioideae), a narrow endemic from Hekou County, Yunnan Province, in southwestern China, is described and illustrated. The new species can be diagnosed by a combination of characters, including tendrilled lianas; bilobed leaves with nine to 11 nerves; terminal, racemose inflorescences; spindle-shaped, slightly falcate flower buds with acute apices; tubular hypanthium; five freely reflexed sepals during anthesis; and large white flowers with oblanceolate, crisped petal blades. The general morphology suggests an affinity of the new species to series Clavatae (de Wit) Wunderlin of section Phanera (Lour.) Wunderlin in Bauhinia L., especially to the species B. coccnea (Lour.) DC. and B. nervosa (Wall, ex Benth.) Baker.
10.2307/3391640|A new species of Solarium sect. Cyphomandropsis (Solanaceae), S. hibernum, is described from the western part of Dept. Santa Cruz, Bolivia. Its strongly discolorous leaves densely covered below with white dendritic hairs distinguish it from the other species in the section.
10.2307/3391597|The presence of an autoicous species in Dicranodontium (Dicranodontium intermedium, species nova) further supports Williams's taxonomic decision to unite Atractylocarpus and Dicranodontium.
10.2307/3392151|Corallorhiza bentleyi Freudenstein is described from West Virginia, U.S.A. The species is cleistogamous and is currently known from only one population. It is most similar to C. striata Lindley, specifically variety involuta (Greenman) Freudenstein from southern Mexico, particularly in the structure of the labellum and size of the flower.
10.2307/3391603|The history and relationships of the mainly Caribbean genus Mosiera are discussed, and it is comprehensively described. Two Mexican and Mesoamerican species, Psidium contrerasii and P. ehrenbergii, are transferred to Mosiera.
20406253|Castelnavia noveloi C. T. Philbrick & C. P. Bove is distinguished from other species of Castelnavia Tulasne & Weddell (Podostemaceae) based on the production of stems arising perpendicular from the leaf petiole (petiolar stems) and the flattened rachis of the pinnate leaves. The new species is only known from rio Taquarussu, east of the town of Taquarussu, Tocantins, Brazil. /// Castelnavia noveloi se distingue das demais espcies de Castelnavia Tulasne & Weddell (Podostemaceae) por possuir caules que surgem perpendicularmente ao pecolo (caules peciolares) e raque das folhas pinadas achatada.  conhecida apenas no rio Taquarussu, a leste da cidade de Taquarussu, Tocantins, Brasil.
10.2307/3391437|A new species of Bonamia has been discovered in the Department of Chontales in Nicaragua. Bonamia douglasii is described and compared with other large-sepaled species in the world. This species differs from the other Central and North American members of the genus in being a woody climber with two cordate outer sepals larger than the inner three. /// Una especie nueva de Bonamia se ha descubierto en el Departamento de Chontales de Nicaragua. Bonamia douglasii se describe y se contrasta con las otras mundiales del gnero con sepalos grandes. Esta especie se difiere de las dems de la Amrica Central y Norte en que es una trepadora leosa con los dos spalos exteriores mayores que los interiores.
20406054|Manglietia albistaminea Law, R. Z. Zhou & X. S. Qin, a new species from China, is described and illustrated. This species is similar to M. fordiana Oliver and M. hainanensis Dandy, from which it differs by fine short hairs on both leaf surfaces, white stamens, and white pilose carpels.
20406304|Ilex guaramacalensis Cuello & Aymard (Aquifoliaceae), a new species from the Andean forests and pramos of Guaramacal massif in Venezuela, is described and illustrated, and its morphological relationships with allied species are discussed. Ilex guaramacalensis is morphologically similar to I. kunthiana Triana from the high mountains of Costa Rica and Panama, the Coastal Cordillera, and the Andes of Venezuela to Peru, but the new species differs by the shape of its young branchlets, leaves, pedicels, and petals; the higher number of secondary veins; the shorter inflorescences; and the 4-merous flowers. Information about the floristic composition and habitat characteristics for the new species is also provided. /// Se describe e ilustra Ilex guaramacalensis Cuello & Aymard (Aquifoliaceae), una nueva especie de los bosques Andinos y pramos del Ramal de Guaramacal en Venezuela, y se discuten sus relaciones morfolgicas con las especies afines. Ilex guaramacalensis es morfologicamente similar a I. kunthiana Triana, conocida de las montaas altas de Costa Rica y Panam, Cordillera de la Costa y de los Andes de Venezuela hasta Per, sin embargo, la nueva especie se diferencia por la forma de sus ramitas jvenes, hojas, pedicelos y ptalos, el mayor numero de venas secundarias, las inflorescencias mas cortas y las flores tetrmeras. Se presenta tambin informacin sobre la composicin florstica y caractersticas del hbitat donde crece la nueva especie.
20406275|Dimeria veldkampii Kiran Raj & Sivadasan, from north Goa of the northern Western Ghats, is illustrated and described as a new species of Poaceae belonging to the subtribe Dimeriinae of the tribe Andropogoneae. The species resembles D. woodrowii Stapf, but differs mainly by its inflorescence rachises being singly or doubly circinately recurved and by the immediate shedding of the spikelets as diaspores. Comparative morphological features of the new species and D. woodrowii are described, and a dichotomous key to the constituent species of Dimeria sect. Annulares Bor is provided.
10.2307/3391918|Cissus colombiensis and C. verticillata subsp. colombiana, new taxa of Vitaceae, are described from Colombia. In addition to descriptions and illustrations, comments on their probable relationships and distributions are presented.
23018461|During revisionary work on the genus Staurogyne Wall. (Acanthaceae) in the Neotropics, the need for typifications was apparent. Lectotypes are designated for S. anigozanthus (Nees) Kuntze, S. diantheroides Lindau, S. elegans (Nees) Kuntze, S. hirsuta (Nees) Kuntze, S. minarum (Nees) Kuntze, S. repens (Nees) Kuntze, and S. riedeliana (Nees) Kuntze. Neotypes are selected for S. eustachya Lindau, S. mandioccana (Nees) Kuntze, and S. veronicifolia (Nees) Kuntze. Durante o estudo de reviso do gnero Staurogyne Wall. (Acanthaceae) nos neotrpicos foi verificada a necessidade de tipificaes. So designadas lectotipificaes para S. anigozanthus (Nees) Kuntze, S. diantheroides Lindau, S. elegans (Nees) Kuntze, S. hirsuta (Nees) Kuntze, S. minarum (Nees) Kuntze, S. repens (Nees) Kuntze e S. riedeliana (Nees) Kuntze. So selecionadas neotipificaes para S. eustachya Lindau, S. mandioccana (Nees) Kuntze e S. veronicifolia (Nees) Kuntze.
3393493|The palm genus Alsmithia H. E. Moore (Arecaceae, Arecoideae), with a single representative from Fiji, is included in synonymy with Heterospathe Scheffer as H. longipes (H. E. Moore) Norup. The species is distinctive within Heterospathe in having an elaborately sculptured endocarp. Alsmithia and Heterospathe share several characters, most notably the lack of a crownshaft, persistent peduncular bracts and prophyll, a completely encircling prophyll, interfoliar inflorescences, and an elongate peduncle. However, the characters are homoplasious and are only diagnostic in combination. The taxonomic transfer is well supported by molecular phylogenetic studies based on two low-copy nuclear DNA markers, PRK and RPB2.
10.2307/3391758|The genera Pritzelago (= Hutchinsia) and Hymenolobus are reduced to synonymy of Hornungia. New combinations for Hornungia alpina and its subspecies are proposed. A key to the three species of Hornungia is provided.
10.2307/3393374|Monardella stoneana (Lamiaceae), a narrow endemic from northern Baja California, Mexico, and southern San Diego County, California, is described and illustrated. Differences in leaf and bract morphology, pubescence, stem glands, and habitat separate it from M. linoides A. Gray and M. odoratissima Bentham, apparently its closest relatives. The reinstatement of M. viminea Greene at the specific rank is supported on the basis of distinctive morphology and biological isolation. A key is included to separate M. stoneana from all of the perennial Monardella species known to occur in San Diego County, California.
10.2307/3391681|The new genus Mesanthophora is from a limestone area of central Paraguay. It looks similar to Lepidaploa, but has decurrent auriculate-based leaves, pedunculate heads from the middle of internodes, nearly equal numbers of involucral bracts and florets, and triporate, totally lophate, strongly columellate pollen lacking a perforated tectum.
23018443|While studying the species of Zornia J. F. Gmel. (Leguminosae, Papilionoideae, Dalbergieae) from Brazil for taxonomic revision of the genus, eight lectotypifications are proposed: Hedysarum bifolium Vell., Z. diphylla (L.) Pers. var. bernardinensis Chodat & Hassl., Z. diphylla var. elatior Benth., Z. diphylla f. ciliata Chodat & Hassl., Z. myriadena Benth., Z. perforata Vogel, Z. reticulata Sm., and Z. sericea Moric., as well as two neotypifications for Z. brasiliensis Vogel and Z. ovata Vogel. A new combination, Z. vichadana (Killip ex Mohlenbr.) Fort.-Perez & A. M. G. Azevedo is proposed, based upon Z. pardina Mohlenbr. var. vichadana Kilip ex Mohlenbr. Eighteen new synonymizations are also included.
20406243|During taxonomic revision of the genus Hortia Vandelli (Rutaceae), it was necessary to lectotypify the name H. megaphylla Taubert because of the destruction of the holotype at B during World War II. This name is also formally synonymized under H. longifolia Spruce ex Engler. The author attribution is changed for H. longifolia Spruce ex Engler, crediting Spruce rather than Bentham. /// Durante a reviso do gnero Hortia Vandelli (Rutaceae), foi verificada a necessidade de lectotipificao do nome H. megaphylla Taubert, em razo da destruio do holtipo depositado em B durante a Segunda Guerra Mundial. Esse nome tambm  formalmente sinonimizado em H. longifolia Spruce ex Engler. A atribuio do autor  mudada para H. longifolia Spruce ex Engler, dando crdito a Spruce ao invs de Bentham.
10.2307/3392065|Typification studies have revealed that the name Viola parvifolia Bentham, until now applied to an endemic high-elevation violet of Ecuador, is a homonym of V. parvifolia Roemer & Schultes, which is a synonym of Ionidium glutinosum Ventenat and, ultimately, of Hybanthus parviflorus (Mutis ex L.f.) Baillon. A new name, V. polycephala H. E. Ballard & P. Jrgensen, is proposed.
10.2307/3391609|Prior to the treatment of Lonchocarpus for the Flora of the Venezuelan Guyana, two new species endemic to the northern part of Estado Bolvar, Venezuela, and partly extending into adjacent Territorio Federal Delta Amacuro, are described: Lonchocarpus crassispermus, related to L. hedyosmus, and Lonchocarpus imatacensis from the subgenus Neuroscapha. In addition, Lonchocarpus tubicalyx is validated.
23018508|The Neotropical genus Borojoa Cuatrec. (Rubiaceae) is now considered a synonym of Alibertia A. Rich. ex DC. Consequently, three species named in Borojoa and found in Costa Rica and Panama are transferred to Alibertia with these corresponding nomenclatural changes: the new combination A. atlantica (Dwyer) Delprete & C. H. Perss. is based on B. atlantica Dwyer, the new name A. dwyeri Delprete & C. H. Perss. is provided for B. panamensis Dwyer, and the new combination A. patinoi (Cuatrec.) Delprete & C. H. Perss. is provided for B. patinoi Cuatrec. Additionally, the species A. premontana C. M. Taylor is reduced to a variety of A. edulis (Rich.) A. Rich. ex DC., as A. edulis var. premontana (C. M. Taylor) Delprete & C. H. Perss. A lectotype is selected for A. edulis. The recent publication of Arachnothryx chimalaparum Lorence ex Borhidi designated a holotype deposited at MO, but no such specimen has been located; a lectotype is here chosen based on a duplicate of the holotype deposited at MEXU. The new species Notopleura recondita Hammel & C. M. Taylor of the Osa Peninsula of Costa Rica can be distinguished from N. polyphlebia (Donn. Sm.) C. M. Taylor by its leaf blades with the secondary veins plane on the adaxial surface and its short cymose or paniculiform inflorescences. The new species Palicourea matamana C. M. Taylor of premontane forests of central-eastern Costa Rica can be separated from P. orosiana C. M. Taylor by its larger stipules, longer calyx lobes, and hirsute pubescence. The new species P. providenciana J. Snchez-Gonz. & C. M. Taylor of montane forests in south-central Costa Rica can be separated from P. hammelii C. M. Taylor by its longer lanceolate stipule lobes, dark purple or yellow-flushed inflorescences, and shorter calyx lobes. The Panamanian plants treated previously as Psychotria acuminata subsp. boraginoides Dwyer are here considered to differ at the species level from P. acuminata Benth., and accordingly the new combination P. boraginoides (Dwyer) C. M. Taylor is here published for this species. Clarification of the identity of Cephaelis croatii Dwyer shows that it is a distinct species of Psychotria, and the new combination P. croatii (Dwyer) C. M. Taylor is published here for this species. The new species P. herrerana C. M. Taylor of central Costa Rica can be recognized by its combination of large, sessile, elliptic leaves, its large paniculiform inflorescences, and its relatively small corollas. Study of the Costa Rican plants previously called Rudgea thyrsiflora Donn. Sm. shows that these do not have the characters of Rudgea, but are similar to Psychotria racemosa Rich. and better included in this latter genus; the new name P. tsakiana C. M. Taylor is here published for this species. The new combination Simira panamensis (Dwyer) C. M. Taylor is published here based on the name Bathysa panamensis Dwyer, which has priority over the name S. darienensis Dwyer; both of the names Dwyer published are based on the same type specimen, thus the later name S. darienensis is illegitimate. El gnero neotropical Borojoa Cuatrec. (Rubiaceae) ahora se considera un sinnimo de Alibertia A. Rich. ex DC., por lo tanto las tres especies con nombres en Borojoa que se encuentran en Costa Rica y Panama se transfieren a Alibertia con los cambios nomenclaturales correspondientes: la combinacin nueva A. atlantica (Dwyer) Delprete & C. H. Perss. se basa en B. atlantica Dwyer, el nombre nuevo A. dwyeri Delprete & C. H. Perss. se publica para B. panamensis Dwyer, y la nueva combinacin A. patinoi (Cuatrec.) Delprete & C. H. Perss. se publica para B. patinoi Cuatrec. Adems la especie A. premontana C. M. Taylor se rebaja a una variedad de A. edulis (Rich.) A. Rich. ex DC., con el nombre A. edulis var. premontana (C. M. Taylor) Delprete & C. H. Perss. Se escoge un lectotipo para A. edulis. Para la especie recientemente descrita Arachnothryx chimalaparum Lorence ex Borhidi design un holotipo depositado en MO, pero tal espcimen no se ha ubicado; aqu se escoge como lectotipo un duplicado del holotipo en MEXU. La especie nueva Notopleura recondita Hammel & C. M. Taylor de la Pennsula de Osa de Costa Rica se distingue de N. polyphlebia (Donn. Sm.) C. M. Taylor por las lminas foliares con las venas secundarias planas en el haz y las cortas inflorescencias cimosas o paniculiformes. La especie nueva Palicourea matamana C. M. Taylor de bosques premontanos del centro-este de Costa Rica se distingue de P. orosiana C. M. Taylor por las estpulas ms grandes, los lbulos del cliz ms largos y la pubescencia hirsuta. La especie nueva P. providenciana J. Snchez-Gonz. & C. M. Taylor de bosques montanos en el sur-central de Costa Rica se distingue de P. hammelii C. M. Taylor por los lbulos de las estpulas lanceolados y ms largos, las inflorescencias de color morado oscuro o matizado con amarillo y los lbulos del cliz ms cortos. Las plantas panameas anteriormente tratadas en Psychotria acuminata subsp. boraginoides Dwyer aqu se consideran diferentes de P. acuminata Benth. al nivel de especie, entonces la combinacin nueva P. boraginoides (Dwyer) C. M. Taylor se publica aqu para esta especie. La clarificacin de la identidad de Cephaelis croatii Dwyer demuestra que es una especie diferente de Psychotria, y la combinacin nueva P. croatii (Dwyer) C. M. Taylor se publica aqu para esta especie. La especie nueva P. herrerana C. M. Taylor del centro de Costa Rica se reconoce por la combinacin de las hojas grandes, ssiles y elpticas, las grandes inflorescencias paniculiformes y las corolas relativamente pequeas. El estudio de las plantas costarricenses anteriormente llamadas Rudgea thyrsiflora Donn. Sm. demuestra que stas no tienen los carcteres de Rudgea y son similares a Psychotria racemosa Rich., entonces se incluyen mejor in este segundo gnero; el nombre nuevo P. tsakiana C. M. Taylor se publica aqu para esta especie. La combinacin nueva Simira panamensis (Dwyer) C. M. Taylor se publica aqu basado en el nombre Bathysa panamensis Dwyer, lo cual tiene prioridad sobre el nombre S. darienensis Dwyer; ambos de los nombres publicados por Dwyer se basan en el mismo espcimen tipo, entonces el nombre posterior S. darienensis es ilegtimo.
10.2307/3392230|Three new species of Gibsoniothamnus L. O. Williams, G. grandiflorus, G. stellatus, and G. versicolor, are described as new.
3393403| The eastern Asian genus Belamcanda (Iridaceae: Irideae), with its sole species, B. chinensis, the leopard or blackberry lily, has long been understood to be most closely related to Iris dichotoma (syn. Pardanthopsis dichotoma), but has nevertheless been maintained as a separate genus because of its distinctive floral, fruit, and seed morphology. Molecular DNA sequence evidence shows B. chinensis and its sister species, I. dichotoma, to be nested within the large Northern Hemisphere genus Iris (ca. 280 spp.). Not only does consistent taxonomic treatment of genera of the Iridaceae require that Belamcanda be transferred to Iris, but we argue that taxonomy should follow the principle of monophyly, which requires that Belamcanda and any other genus nested in Iris be treated as members of that genus. A new combination, I. domestica (basionym Epidendrum domesticum), is made for B. chinensis (based on Ixia chinensis), because the name Iris chinensis is preoccupied. The names Belamcanda pampaninii Lveill and B. chinensis var. taiwanensis S. S. Ying are here included in the synonymy of I. domestica. 
27765189|A new species of Cyanus Miller, C. diospolitanus Bancheva & S. Stoyanov (Asteraceae, Centaureinae), from Tundzha hilly country floristic region in Elhovo municipality, southeastern Bulgaria, is described and illustrated. It belongs to Cyanus sect. Napuliferi (Stefanoff & T. Georgiev) Bancheva & Raimondo, and taxonomically its closest relative is C. pseudoaxillaris (Stefanoff & T. Georgiev) Holub, a rare local endemic for the Thracian Plain, Bulgaria. The new species is currently known from four localities in the Derventski Hills (Yambol Province), growing at the periphery of dry, stony meadows in thermophilous oak forests and brushwood. The chromosome number is 2n = 22, and SEM analysis of the pollen grains is described and illustrated.
10.2307/3393116|Two new species from China, Listera microphylla S. C. Chen & Y. B. Luo and L. fangii Tang & Wang ex S. C. Chen & G. Zhu, are described and illustrated. Listera megalochila (S. C. Chen) S. C. Chen & G. Zhu is elevated in status from varietal to species level based on characters of the floral lip. Their affinities with other related species of Listera are briefly discussed.
10.2307/3391705|A fourth species of Dasyphyllum sect. Dasyphyllum with a floral tube that is pilose on the outside is described here; the other three species are Dasyphyllum inerme, D. lanceolatum, and D. vepreculatum. This new species, which we name Dasyphyllum maria-lianae, is distinguished from the others by the broadly ovate leaves that are loosely villous above and densely villous below, a longer pedicel, a wider involucre, densely tomentose phyllaries, and a greater number of flowers.
3393351| Se describe e ilustra Sphyrospermum linearifolium (Ericaceae), un taxn endmico a Costa Rica, bastante singular dentro del gnero por sus hojas lineares y hbito colgante y se comenta su relacin con otras especies dentro del gnero. /// Sphyrospermum linearifolium (Ericaceae), a new endemic species from Costa Rica, is described and illustrated, and its relationships are discussed. The taxon is distinctive within the genus because of its linear leaves and scandent habit. 
3393322|A new species of Minasia (Asteraceae, Vernonieae) was found in the "campos rupestres" of the Planalto de Diamantina, Minas Gerais, Brazil. Minasia lewinsohnii is characterized by its overall small size, linear to elliptical subfleshy leaves, sessile to pedunculate capitula, and achenes with indumentum throughout the surface. So far, it is known from only one population.
10.2307/3393106|A new species is presented for the genus Adenocalymma (Bignoniaceae tribe Bignonieae). Adenocalymma magnoalatum Scudeller occurs in the Parque Estadual do Rio Doce, Minas Gerais, Brazil. Its subcoriaceous blades and secondary veins raised and yellow below, a quadrangular ovary, and especially the 4-alate fruit and convex, bi-alate seeds compressed on the back distinguish the species. /// Se presenta una nueva especie para el gnero Adenocalymma (Bignoniaceae tribu Bignonieae), A. magnoalatum Scudeller, del "Parque Estadual do Rio Doce," Minas Gerais, Brasil. La especie se caracteriza por sus hojas subcoriceas y venas secundarias elevadas y amarillas en el envs, un ovario cuadrangular y especialmente por el fruto 4-alado y las semillas convexas y bi-aladas comprimidas dorsalmente.
10.2307/3392014|Metroxylon paulcoxii sp. nov., from the islands of 'Upolu and Savai'i in Western Samoa, is described, illustrated, and compared to M. warburgii (F. Heim) Beccari, which is also present in Samoa. Metroxylon paulcoxii is differentiated from M. warburgii by the presence of three autapomorphic characters: shorter mid-rachis leaflets, pendulous or variable rachillae, and terminal (distal) rachillae more than twice as long as lateral (proximal) rachillae. In addition, the ambiguous name M. upoluense Beccari is discussed.
10.2307/3391761|The new species Sinojackia microcarpa C. T. Chen & G. Y. Li is described and illustrated, and the characters distinguishing it from the related species S. rehderiana are given.
40300880|Cyclanthera lalajuela Hammel & J. A. Gonzalez, known only from the Caribbean slope of Alajuela Province, Costa Rica, is described. The combination of trifoliolate leaves with conspicuous, sessile glands at the base of the leaflets and unarmed fruits distinguish it from all other species in the genus. /// Se describe Cyclanthera lalajuela Hammel & J. A. Gonzlez, conocida solamente de la vertiene caribea de la provincia de Alajuela, Costa Rica. La combinacin de hojas trifolioladas con glndulas ssiles, conspicuas en la base de las hojuelas y sus frutos inermes la distingue de todas las dems especies del gnero.
20406232|The combinations Hibiscus moscheutos L. subsp. lasiocarpos (Cavanilles) O. J. Blanchard, H. clypeatus L. subsp. cryptocarpos (A. Richard) O. J. Blanchard, and H. clypeatus subsp. membranaceus (Cavanilles) O. J. Blanchard are validated for a central North American plant taxon, a Cuban plant taxon, and a Bahamian plant taxon, respectively. The name H. grandiflorus Michaux is lectotypified. A new name, Kosteletzkya semota O. J. Blanchard, is established for the West African K. stellata Hutchinson & Dalziel, a later homonym. The neotype of the Philippine endemic K. batacensis (Blanco) Fernndez-Villar is changed. Two well-known species, K. virginica (L.) C. Presl ex A. Gray of eastern North America and K. pentacarpos (L.) Ledebour of Eurasia, are synonymized under the latter name.
10.2307/3391657|While preparing the genus Solarium for the Flora of the Venezuelan Guayana, W. G. D'Arcy and I discovered Solanum nuricum M. Nee, sp. nov., among collections made in the northeastern part of the region.
10.2307/3393146|Bertiera rugosa is described and illustrated. It is known only from a single locality at ca. 2000 m altitude in southern Ecuador. It is distinguished by its conspicuously rugose leaves, short stipule sheaths, and pyramidal inflorescences. An updated key to Ecuadorian Bertiera is given.
10.2307/3391524|In accordance with the acceptance of the generic name Parasenecio for the Asiatic-centered species historically referred to Cacalia, a new combination is made for the single species that ranges to North America: Parasenecio auriculata (A. P. de Candolle) J. R. Grant.
20406254|New combinations in Lychnis L. (Caryophyllaceae) are proposed for the names of seven taxa occurring in the East and West African mountains. The taxa have previously been placed in Uebelinia Hochstetter, but recent molecular studies placed the group within Lychnis. The new combinations are: L. crassifolia (T. C. E. Fries) M. Popp, L. kigesiensis (R. D. Good) M. Popp, L. kigesiensis subsp. ragazziana (S. Ousted) M. Popp, L. kiwuensis (T. C. E. Fries) M. Popp, L. kiwuensis subsp. erlangeriana (S. Ousted) M. Popp, L. rotundifolia (Oliver) M. Popp, and L. scottii (Turrill) M. Popp.
20406177|Parrya nauruaq Al-Shehbaz, J. R. Grant, R. Lipkin, D. F. Murray & C. L. Parker (Brassicaceae) is described from the Seward Peninsula of Alaska. It differs from the other North American species in Parrya R. Brown by its smaller flowers and fruits, and by its fewer seeds per fruit. A key to the four North American species of Parrya is provided.
20406163|A new species of Luzula sect. Luzula DC., known from higher altitudes of volcanic hills in Costa Rica, is described under the name Luzula ignivoma Kirschner. It is most closely related to the Chilean species L. tristachya Desvaux. New Central American country records of other species of the Juncaceae are also given: Juncus marginatus Rostkovius from Panama, Juncus hybridus Brotero, and J. cooperi Engelmann from Mexico.
41811674|A new species of Papaveraceae, Meconopsis xiangchengensis R. Li & Z. L. Dao, is described and illustrated from southwestern Sichuan, China. The new taxon is placed in Meconopsis sect. Simplicifoliae (Tayl.) C. Y. Wu & H. Chuang and is morphologically related to M. impedita Prain. Meconopsis xiangchengensis differs from the latter by the plant height (8-10 cm vs. 15-25 cm in M. impedita) with sparse prickles or nearly glabrous on both surfaces (vs. denser prickles), and by the shorter petioles (1-2.5 cm vs. 3-7.2 cm) and styles (2-3 mm vs. 3-10 mm).
10.2307/3392046|Potamogeton subg. Coleogeton is elevated to generic level. A combination of morphological and anatomical features readily distinguishes the new genus Coleogeton from both Groenlandia and Potamogeton, the two other genera recognized in the Potamogetonaceae. All new combinations for taxa that occur in North America are proposed for use in the Flora of North America. These new combinations include Coleogeton striatus, C. pectinatus, C. filiformis, C. filiformis subsp. alpinus, C. filiformis subsp. occidentalis, and C. vaginatus.
3393299| Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie endmica de Mesoamrica, Gonolobus incerianus (Apocynaceae, Asclepiadoideae). /// Gonolobus incerianus (Apocynaceae, Asclepiadoideae), a Mesoamerican endemic, is described and illustrated. 
10.2307/3391829|Didymocarpus miniatus (Gesneriaceae), a new species in Didymocarpus sect. Heteroboea, is described from Bukit Bauk in Trengganu, Peninsular Malaysia.
10.2307/3393110|Current floristic research in Venezuela has resulted in the recognition of another new species of Justicia. This new species, Justicia aymardii, presently known from the slopes of the eastern Andes, the Sierra Nevada de Merida, is described, illustrated, and compared to its closest relative, Justicia ischnorhachis Leonard, which is from Colombia. It alone among Justicia has the combination of (1) a 4-parted calyx, (2) multicellular purplish colored trichomes along the stem, peduncles, and rachis, and (3) a conspicuous purplish to reddish purple, long, somewhat curved, tubular corolla (20-28 mm long) with relatively short lips (8-9 mm long). This new species does not appear to be closely related to any of the known species of Justicia from Venezuela.
10.2307/3393210|Four replacement names are required in Campanulaceae s.l. due to the principle of priority. Genera affected are Codonopsis Wallich, Lobelia L., and Wahlenbergia Schrader ex Roth.
10.2307/3391579|Miconia alainii, which is known only from a diverse cloud forest near the summit of Loma Trocha de Pey or "Monteada Nueva," the eastern-most peak of the Sierra de Baoruco of the Dominican Republic, is described and illustrated. It is compared to M. adenocalyx and M. favosa, two phenetically similar species.
20406171|Una nueva especie de Chile, Adesmia ovallensis Ulibarri (serie Argyrophyllae Burkart), es descripta, ilustrada y comparada con especies vecinas. Se hacen tambin consideraciones sobre su relacin dentro de las series del gnero Adesmia DC. Se establece la sinonimia de A. kingi Philippi y A. sessiliflora Philippi con A. argyrophylla Philippi. Se establece tambin la lectotipificacin de A. sessiliflora. /// A new species from Chile, Adesmia ovallensis Ulibarri (series Argyrophyllae Burkart), is described, illustrated, and compared with other allied species. Affinities within the series of the genus Adesmia DC. are also considered. The synonymy of A. kingi Philippi and A. sessiliflora Philippi with A. argyrophylla Philippi is established. A lectotype for A. sessiliflora is also designated.
3393314|Pritchardia flynnii Lorence & Gemmill is described and illustrated from Kaua'i, Hawai'i, U.S.A. This new species most closely resembles the Kaua'i endemic species Pritchardia hardyi, from which it differs by its shorter, more slender trunk 0.7-7(11) m tall and 10-20(30) cm DBH, erect to arcuate inflorescences equaling or slightly exceeding the petioles with lanate-tomentose, eventually glabrescent rachillae, and smaller fruits 25-35 x 18-23 mm when dry.
40856311|Se describen e ilustran dos nuevas especies del gnero Siphoneugena O. Berg (Myrtaceae) y se provee una clave de identificacin para las especies del mismo. Siphoneugena minima Loza & A. Fuentes se encontr en un bosque montano del Parque Nacional Madidi y S. glabrata Loza & P. Jrg. en los bosques de Alnus Mili, de la Reserva Natural Choquetanga-Choquercamiri. Se discuten semejanzas y diferencias morfolgicas entre S. minima con S. delicata Sobral & Proena y S. reitzii D. Legrand; la caracterstica ms marcada que distingue a S. minima de las dems especies es la presencia de botones y flores ssiles. Siphoneugena glabrata se compar con S. densiflora O. Berg, S. dussii (Krug & Urb.) Proena y S. occidentalis D. Legrand, pero difiere de estas especies por presentar las ramas jvenes glabras. Two new species of Siphoneugena O. Berg (Myrtaceae) are described and illustrated, and a key to the species of the genus is provided. Siphoneugena minima Loza & A. Fuentes was found in montane forest of Madidi National Park, and S. glabrata Loza & P. Jrg. was found in Alnus Mill, forests of the ChoquetangaChoquercamiri Natural Reserve. We discuss morphological similarities and differences that distinguish S. minima from S. delicata Sobral & Proena and S. reitzii D. Legrand; the most notable characteristic that distinguishes S. minima is the sessile buds and flowers. Siphoneugena glabrata is compared to S. densiflora O. Berg, S. dussii (Krug & Urb.) Proena, and S. occidentalis D. Legrand, but differs from these species by its glabrous twigs.
10.2307/3392984|A new genus of stapeliad, Baynesia (Apocynaceae-Asclepiadoideae-Ceropegieae), is described with a single species, B. lophophora Bruyns. This is known from the mountainous area in the northwestern-most corner of Namibia, where it was relatively plentiful but very local. Its relationships to Caralluma R. Brown and Pseudolithos P. R. O. Bally are discussed.
10.2307/3393008|In this work, we propose the new combination Stuckenia punensis (Galn de Mera) Galn de Mera for use in the Peruvian flora. This species is coincident with S. filiformis in its distribution in the high Andes of Peru. Stuckenia punensis differs from S. filiformis in its wider, scabrous leaves and globose achenes.
3393281|The new combinations Braya gamosepala and B. brachycarpa (Brassicaceae) are proposed. The distinguishing characters, especially of habit and fruit and trichome morphology, separating Arabidopsis, Braya, and Neotorularia (formerly Torularia) are discussed.
10.2307/3393119|Two new species, Ainsliaea pentaflora from Tonkin, Vietnam, and Ainsliaea qianiana from Yunnan, China, are described and illustrated. Ainsliaea pentaflora is distinguished by its 5-flowered capitula, rounded anther appendages, and rosulate leaves with practically wingless petioles. Ainsliaea qianiana is distinguished by its apiculate anther appendages, rosulate leaves with petioles winged, and 3-flowered capitula. These species are compared with closely related species. Included are keys to those Ainsliaea with apiculate anther appendages and 5-flowered capitula.
20406091|Based on the examination of the original material and protologue, the specimen Balansa 3884 (P) is designated as the lectotype of Talauma fistulosa Finet & Gagnepain, the basionym of Magnolia fistulosa (Finet & Gagnepain) Dandy, to supersede under Art. 9.17(b) of the ICBN the earlier designation by Chen and Nooteboom, Bon 3176. Two other names, M. talaumoides Dandy and M. phanerophlebia B. L. Chen, are referred to M. fistulosa as new synonyms.
10.2307/3391652|Morphological characters support the description of six new species of Indigofera from Madagascar: I. bemarahaensis Du Puy & Labat from the Bemaraha Massif (western region), and I. blaiseae Du Puy & Labat, I. bosseri Du Puy & Labat, I. imerinensis Du Puy & Labat, I. itremoensis Du Puy & Labat, and I. zornioides Du Puy & Labat from various localities in the Central Plateaux. In addition, a new name, I. peltieri Du Puy & Labat, is given in place of I. tulearensis M. Peltier, a later homonym of I. tulearensis Baillon ex Drake, and the species I. ankaratrensis and I. mangokyensis are lectotypified. /// L'tude des caractres morphologiques permet la description de six nouvelles espces d'Indigofera de Madagascar: I. bemarahaensis Du Puy & Labat du Massif du Bemaraha (region ouest), et I. blaiseae Du Puy & Labat, I. bosseri Du Puy & Labat, I. imerinensis Du Puy & Labat, I. itremoensis Du Puy & Labat, et I. zornioides Du Puy & Labat de diffrentes localits du Plateau Central. Egalement, un nouveau nom, I. peltieri Du Puy & Labat, est donn en remplacement de I. tulearensis M. Peltier, un homonyme plus rcent de I. tulearensis Baillon ex Drake. Les espces I. ankaratrensis et I. mangokyensis sont lectotypifies.
20406237|Se describe e ilustra Haematoxylum sousanum Cruz Durn & J. Jimnez Ramrez, una especie nueva (Leguminosae, Caesalpinioideae) de la parte alta de la Cuenca del Ro Balsas, al sur de Mxico. Esta especie es afn a H. brasiletto H. Karsten, pero difiere por presentar hojas paripinnadas o biimparipinnadas, flores en inflorescencias paniculadas, partes florales de forma diferente, fruto falcado y diferente fenologa. /// Haematoxylum sousanum Cruz Durn & J. Jimnez Ramrez, a new species (Leguminosae, Caesalpinioideae) from the high Balsas basin from southern Mexico, is described and illustrated. It appears similar to H. brasiletto H. Karsten, but differs in presenting paripinnate or bi-imparipinnate leaves, flowers in panicles, floral parts different in form, falcate fruits, and distinct phenology.
10.2307/3392106|Hemilophia sessilifolia is described and illustrated. Its relationship to the other species of Hemilophia is discussed.
10.2307/3393531|Tulipa mongolica Y. Z. Zhao (Liliaceae) is described from Inner Mongolia, China. The new species is distinguished by its filaments 2.5-3.0 times as long as the anthers. It is related to T. heteropetala Ledebour on the basis of its filaments widened from the mid-point down, narrowing on both sides of the filament.
20406037|Rhamnus mongolica Y. Z. Zhao & L. Q. Zhao (Rhamnaceae) is described from Inner Mongolia, China. The new species is related to R. gilgiana Heppeler, but distinguished by its leaves oblanceolate or obovate-lanceolate and glabrous on both surfaces.
10.2307/3393265| We describe and illustrate a monotypic new genus and species of fern, Luisma bivascularis M. T. Murillo & A. R. Smith (Grammitidaceae), endemic from the Colombian Andes. Luisma is similar to narrow-leaved species of Campyloneurum (Polypodiaceae). However, it agrees with grammitid ferns in having green, trilete spores (vs. hyaline or yellowish, monolete spores in nearly all Polypodiaceae) and free veins (vs. anastomosing in Campyloneurum). From all Grammitidaceae, Luisma differs in having two petiolar bundles. Other distinguishing characters include suberect, radially symmetrical rhizomes, sparse hyaline stipe hairs, adaxial hydathodes, and clathrate, setulose rhizome scales. /// Nosotros describimos e ilustramos un nuevo gnero y especie de helecho monotpico, Luisma bivascularis M. T. Murillo & A. R. Smith (Grammitidaceae), endmico de los Andes colombianos. Luisma es similar a especies de Campyloneurum (Polypodiaceae) con hojas angostas. Sin embargo, concuerda con las gramitidceas por tener esporas verdes, triletes (vs. esporas hialinas o amarillentas en casi todas las Polypodiaceae) y venas libres (vs. anastomosadas en Campyloneurum). De todas las Grammitidaceae Luisma difiere por tener dos haces peciolares. Otros caracteres que lo distinguen incluyen un rizoma radialmente simtrico, con pelos hialinos esparcidos en el estpite, hidatodos adaxiales y escamas del rizoma clatradas, setulosas. 
43289112|A new moss species of the family Mielichhoferiaceae, Synthetodontium kunlunense J. C. Zhao & Y. Y. Liu, is described and illustrated. It was collected from soil substrates in an oasis in the Kunlun Mountains in Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region in China. The peristome structure of this species is similar to that of S. pringlei Cardot, but S. kunlunense has longer leaves (0.51.3 mm vs. ca. 0.5 mm), shorter median leaf cells (8.6-21.7 m vs. 40.672.6 m), decurrent leaf bases (vs. not decurrent), a nodding capsule (vs. erect), and reddish proximal leaf cells (vs. green). Synthetodontium Cardot seems to be a disjunct genus distributed between East Asia and North America because the new species is known from a single locality in China, and another closely related species in the genus is known from four localities in Mexico.
27765237|Two new tropical species in Eleocharis subgen. Limnochloa (P. Beauv. ex T. Lestib.) Torr. (Cyperaceae) are described and their relationships with presumably allied species are discussed. Eleocharis hooperiana D. J. Rosen from Sierra Leone in West Tropical Africa differs from the morphologically similar and presumably close taxonomie ally E. nupeensis Hutch, in a combination of coarser culms, longer and more coarsely spinulose perianth bristles, and larger fruits. Eleocharis tenuiculmis D. J. Rosen from the Brazilian state of Mato Grosso differs from the similar slender-culmed species E. elongata Chapm. in a combination of narrower culms, longer perianth bristles, and generally larger, biconvex fruits. Se describen dos nuevas especies tropicales de Eleocharis subgen. Limnochloa (P. Beauv. ex T. Lestib.) Torr. (Cyperaceae) y se discuten sus relaciones con especies presumiblemente relacionadas. Eleocharis hooperiana D. J. Rosen, de Sierra Leona en Africa tropical occidental, difiere de E. nupeensis Hutch., una especie morfolgicamente similar y presumiblemente cercanamente relacionada, en tener tallos ms robustos, cerdas del perianto ms largas y ms espinulosas, y frutos ms grandes. Eleocharis tenuiculmis D. J. Rosen, del Estado Brasileo de Mato Grosso, difiere de E. elongata Chapm., otra especie de tallos delgados, en una combinacin de tallos ms delgados, cerdas del perianto ms largas, y frutos biconvexos generalmente ms grandes.
20406293|A description of Hypoxis bampsiana Wiland (Hypoxidaceae) is extended, and a new subspecies, H. bampsiana subsp. tomentosa Wiland, is described from the Dzalanyama Forest Reserve in Malawi (also distributed from the Democratic Republic of Congo and Tanzania). It differs from H. bampsiana subsp. bampsiana in the indumentum dispersed on the whole leaf blade and in the number of leaf veins. Ranges of both subspecies are almost allopatric except at the Kundelungu Plateau in the Democratic Republic of Congo where they co-occur.
10.2307/3391914|Trillium channellii (Trilliaceae), a new tetraploid species from eastern Hokkaido (northern Japan), is described. Evidence concerning its relationships with other Trillium taxa in Asia is presented and discussed, and hypotheses about its origin are considered. The name T. camschatcense Ker Gawler is presented as the correct name for the only diploid Trillium species in Asia, a taxon most commonly treated as T. camtschaticum Pallas ex Pursh; the latter name was not only published invalidly but also at a later date than the former.
23018476|A new genus, Ananthura H. Rob. & Skvarla (Asteraceae, Vernonieae), is described for Vernonia pteropoda Oliv. & Hiern in Oliv. of Central Africa. The genus has broad median shields on the involucral bracts and lophate, strongly tricolporate pollen. It is placed in the subtribe Gymnantheminae. The name V. urophylla Muschl. is lectotypified.
10.2307/3391953|The genus Thellungiella is recognized, and the characters separating its two species from Arabidopsis are given. Arabidopsis parvula (Schrenk) O. E. Schulz is recognized in Thellungiella.
10.2307/3391943|In preparation for forthcoming publications on allozymes and the ITS region of nuclear DNA of Korthalsella, a synopsis of the genus is presented. Only names in current use are listed; a complete taxonomic revision will be published separately. Molecular evidence, as well as morphometric evaluation of branch shape characters and anatomical results have shown that a realignment of Korthalsella sections and species is needed. The changes involve new delimitations and combinations. A key to the eight species of Korthalsella is presented. The following species are recognized: Korthalsella geminata (Korthals) Engler, K. papuana Danser, K. taenioides (Commerson ex DC.) Engler, including six forms, K. cylindrica (Tieghem) Engler, K. japonica (Thunberg) Engler, including three forms, K. salicornioides (A. Cunningham) Tieghem, K. lindsayi (Oliver ex Hooker f.) Engler, K. lindsayi var. clavata (Kirk) Danser, and K. dacrydii (Ridley) Danser.
10.2307/3393382|While preparing the account of Astragalus L. (Fabaceae) for the Flora of China, Volume 10, it was noticed that one species, A. yumenensis S. B. Ho, described from Gansu Province in 1983, was invalidly named because two types (one flowering and one fruiting) were designated. The name is validated here, with the fruiting specimen designated as the holotype.
10.2307/3391678|Four new species of Meliosma are described from the Peruvian Andes as M. pumila, M. simiarum, M. sirensis, and M. youngii.
10.2307/3391401|Ancistrocladus korupensis, a species here described from the Southwest Province of Cameroon and adjacent Nigeria, is distinguished within the genus by sessile leaves, short petals, and longwinged fruits. The new species was investigated after michellamine B, a unique naphthyl isoquinoline alkaloid isolated from a sterile Ancistrocladus leaf collection, showed in vitro activity against HIV-1 and HIV-2. Subsequent collections showed that the liana was undescribed and apparently narrowly endemic to the Korup area.
10.2307/3392018|Three new species of Erica from the Western Cape Province of South Africa are described and illustrated. Their probable affinities and known distributions are discussed. Erica cabernetea is a very restricted endemic in the Elgin Basin, E. navigatoris is known only from two well-separated inland mountains, and E. cedromontana occurs widespread in the Cedarberg mountains on rock faces.
3393308| Se describe e ilustra Tibouchina araneicalyx de la vertiente del Ocano Pacfico de la Sierra Madre del Sur en Guerrero, Mxico. Se discuten las posibles relaciones de esta especie con T. mexicana (D. Don) Cogniaux y otras especies con flores pentmeras y estambres fuertemente dimrficos, de las que se distingue principalmente por tener ramas agudamente tetrgonas, lbulos del cliz triangulares ms cortos que el hipantio y ptalos con cilios eglandulares. /// Tibouchina araneicalyx is described and illustrated from the Pacific slopes of the Sierra Madre del Sur in Guerrero, Mexico. Its possible relationships with T. mexicana (D. Don) Cogniaux and another Mexican species of Tibouchina with pentamerous flowers and strongly dimorphic stamens are discussed; it is principally distinguished from these species by the sharply tetragonal branches, the triangular calyx lobes shorter than the hypanthium, and the petals with eglandular cilia. 
40960828|Clusia magnoliiflora M. H. G. Gust, is described as new for the Clusiaceae. It grows in dry scrub in the river valleys of the Maran and its tributaries in northern Peru, a kind of habitat that harbors very few Clusia species. The species is distinct on account of its extremely thick, obovate leaves; the large, white flowers with as many as seven or eight spatulate petals; the large, white, triangular stigmata in the flower; and the spherical fruit with the stigmata positioned well below the apex. Clusia magnoliiflora is abundant in the habitat where it was collected.
27765214|Chiritopsis W. T. Wang (Gesneriaceae) is endemic to China, where the genus consists of 10 species and three varieties. In the course of our floristic investigation of karst caves in Guangxi in 2005, the new species C. jingxiensis Yan Liu, W. B. Xu & H. S. Gao was discovered in a karst cave from the Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region of China, and the new taxon is described and illustrated here. This new species is similar to C. mollifolia D. Fang & W. T. Wang in its leaf shape, corolla, and staminodes, but it can be distinguished by its smaller leaves, the lax, l-branched cymes with one to three flowers, and the capsule that is twice as long as the calyx.
10.2307/3391868|A new species of Erica from the Western Cape Province of South Africa is described and illustrated. Its probable affinities and known distribution and habitat are discussed. E. hebdomadalis is a low, spreading species with small, white pendulous flowers and is restricted to the highest altitudes of the eastern Klein Swartberg near Ladismith.
20406196|Tillandsia tehuacana I. Ramrez & Carnevali, a new species in the T. utriculata (L.) L. complex (Bromeliaceae) from Puebla, Mexico, is described and illustrated. The new entity is similar to T. makoyana Baker, but the rosettes are cylindrical (vs. funnelform), the leaves are coriaceous (vs. sclerotic), the leaves have a proportionately larger sheath compared with the lamina (vs. leaves with the sheath and lamina subequal), and the rachis of the inflorescence is sharply flexuous (vs. straight). The new species is also characterized by its habit, since it usually grows in dry thorn-scrub-cactus associations, while T. makoyana grows in different vegetation types, including oak and low deciduous forests. The new entity is also similar to T. pinicola I. Ramrez & Carnevali, but the new taxon differs by its larger rosette and inflorescence, its tubular rosette with leaves that are gray and purple and white lepidote on both sides (vs. a funnelform rosette with green leaves and only sparsely white lepidote abaxially), the floral bracts much shorter than the sepals (vs. subequal), the flowers ovate in shape (vs. tubular), and the three stigmatic lobes twisted together (vs. not twisted together). /// Se describe e ilustra Tillandsia tehuacana I. Ramrez & Carnevali, una nueva especie del complejo T. utriculata (L.) L. (Bromeliaceae). La nueva especie es similar a T. makoyana Baker, pero sus rosetas son cilndricas (vs. en forma de embudo), sus hojas son coriceas (vs. esclerticas), con una vaina proporcionalmente ms larga que la lmina (vs. hojas con la vaina y la lmina subiguales) y el raquis de la inflorescencia es fuertemente flexuoso (vs. recto). Tambin se caracteriza por crecer en matorral xerfilo asociada con cactus, mientras que T. makoyana crece en bosques de encino y selvas bajas caducifolias. La nueva especie tambin es similar a T. pinicola I. Ramrez & Carnevali pero tiene unas rosetas cilndricas con hojas grises y bandas prpuras, blanco lepidotas en ambas caras e inflorescencias de mayor tamao (vs. rosetas en forma de embudo con hojas verdes en ambas caras, ligeramente lepidotas en la cara abaxial e inflorescencia tan larga o ligeramente mas larga que la roseta), brcteas florales ms cortas que los spalos (vs. subiguales), flores sonovoides en forma general (vs. tubular) y los tres lbulos del estigma son conduplicado-espiralados (vs. conduplicados pero no espiralados).
10.2307/3391482|Two new species of the neotropical wing-fruited genus Stigmaphyllon (Malpighiaceae) are described from Peru, S. argenteum from the eastern lowlands and S. cuzcanum from the uplands of Cuzco.
20406075|Five new Canadian subspecies of Braya are described and illustrated, three within B. humilis (C. A. Meyer) B. L. Robinson (subsp. ellesmerensis J. G. Harris, subsp. maccallae J. G. Harris, and subsp. porsildii J. G. Harris), one within B. glabella Richardson (subsp. prostrata J. G. Harris), and one within B. thorild-wulffii Ostenfeld (subsp. glabrata J. G. Harris). Keys to the North American subspecies of B. humilis, B. glabella, and B. thorild-wulffii are provided. Brief comments about the possible phylogenetic and phytogeographic significance of the subspecies of B. humilis are presented. /// Cinq nouvelles sous-espces canadiennes de Braya sont dcrites et illustres, trois dans B. humilis (C. A. Meyer) B. L. Robinson (subsp. ellesmerensis J. G. Harris, subsp. maccallae J. G. Harris, et subsp. porsildii J. G. Harris), une dans B. glabella Richardson (subsp. prostrata J. G. Harris), et une dans B. thorild-wulffii Ostenfeld (subsp. glabrata J. G. Harris). Des cls aux sous-espces de l'Amrique du Nord de B. humilis, B. glabella, et B. thorild-wulffii, sont donnes. Des commentaires brves concernant la signification phylogntique et phytogographique possibles de la sous-espce B. humilis sont prsents.
20406205|Six new species of Phacelia Jussieu are described from Arizona and New Mexico, U.S.A., as P. buell-vivariensis N. D. Atwood, P. cloudcroftensis N. D. Atwood, P. furnissii N. D. Atwood, P. higginsii N. D. Atwood, P. hughesii N. D. Atwood, and P. pinkavae N. D. Atwood. The new species all belong to the Crenulatae group within the genus. The new species are compared to other members of the group based on similarities and differences in stature, seed, pubescence, and leaf and flower morphology.
10.2307/3392234|Three new species of Rustia are described, two from Ecuador (R. alba and R. viridiflora) and one from Panama (R. dressleri). Illustrations of the three species are provided. /// Se describen tres especies nuevas de Rustia, dos de Ecuador (R. alba y R. viridiflora) y una de Panam (R. dressleri). Se incluyen ilustraciones de las tres especies.
20406102|The Australian species of the bottlebrush genus Callistemon R. Brown are not sufficiently distinct from Melaleuca L. for Callistemon to be maintained as a separate genus. The primary character states used to justify maintenance of Callistemon are that its staminal filaments are free and not grouped. This breaks down as fused filaments in five groups, the defining features of Melaleuca, occur in some Callistemon species. Therefore, it is concluded that the two genera should be combined. The following new names are proposed for species being treated in a forthcoming account of Melaleuca for Flora of Australia: M. faucicola Craven, M. flammea Craven, M. orophila Craven, M. paludicola Craven, M. salicina Craven, M. virens Craven, and M. williamsii Craven. The following new combinations are established as transferred from Callistemon: M. brachyandra (Lindley) Craven, M. chisholmii (Cheel) Craven, M. comboynensis (Cheel) Craven, M. flavovirens (Cheel) Craven, M. formosa (S. T. Blake) Craven, M. montana (S. T. Blake) Craven, M. pachyphylla (Cheel) Craven, M. pearsonii (R. D. Spencer & Lumley) Craven, M. phoenicea (Lindley) Craven, M. pityoides (F. Mueller) Craven, M. polandii (F. M. Bailey) Craven, M. recurva (R. D. Spencer & Lumley) Craven, M. shiressii (Blakely) Craven, and M. subulata (Cheel) Craven. The following new combinations are also established from Metrosideros: Melaleuca linearifolia (Link) Craven, M. linearis var. pinifolia (Wendland) Craven, M. pallida (Bonpland) Craven, and M. rugulosa (Schlechtendal ex Link) Craven. Issues concerning a name in Melaleuca for the accepted species presently known as Callistemon glaucus (Bonpland) Sweet are mentioned.
10.2307/3391431|A new genus and species, Jaimehintonia gypsophila, from gypseous soils of Nuevo Leon, Mexico, is described and illustrated. It belongs to the tribe Allieae of the family Amaryllidaceae, where it is most closely related to Androstephium and associated genera. It differs from most of these in having, in combination, coarsely tunicate bulbs, purple to pink perianths, and a well-developed hypanthium to which the gynoecium is not fused.
27765199|The new species Hoya persicinicoronaria S. Y. He & P. T. Li (Apocynaceae, Asclepiadoideae) is described and illustrated from Hainan, China. The morphology of the related species H. pottsii Traill and H. liangii Tsiang are compared to the new species, which differs in its indumentum, leaf arrangement, leaflet pattern, leaf shape, apex, and size, calyx shape, and corolla color.
10.2307/3391485|Two new species and a new combination are required for the treatment of Epidendrum for the Flora of the Venezuelan Guayana. The new species are Epidendrum caurense and Epidendrum nuriense. Neolehmannia pabstii is transferred to Epidendrum, with the new name Epidendrum dichaeoides. All three species are illustrated with previously unpublished plates by the late G. C. K. Dunsterville. Comments on affinities and geography are provided for all species.
3393344|The new endemic Malagasy genus Dupuya is proposed based on morphological characters. It has two species, D. haraka, comb. nov., and D. madagascariensis, comb. nov., and is distinguished from related genera in having no petals, numerous stamens, a whorl of staminodes inside the stamens, and a number of distinctive seed characters. A new combination is also made for Dupuya madagascariensis subsp. tamarindoides. Dupuya is a member of the aldinoid clade with the genera Aldina, Amburana, Cordyla, Dussia, Mildbraediodendron, and Myrospermum.
10.2307/3391841|Nerine marincowitzii is a rare new species from the Koup Karoo, Cape Province, South Africa. Most closely related to the eastern Cape N. huttoniae Schonland, N. marincowitzii is distinguished by hysteranthous leaves, a sigmoid scape that detaches at ground level when dry, flowers that turn brown at senescence, and a wind-dispersed infructescence. It grows on exposed seasonal washes and flowers at the end of the autumn rainfall season in May.
20406059|Described and illustrated is Memecylon batekeanum R. D. Stone & G. M. Walters from the buffer zone of the Batk Plateaux National Park in southeastern Gabon. This new species is closely related to M. amshoffiae Jacques-Flix of Cameroon, but is distinguished by its shrubby habit, quadrangular-alate young branchlets, fewer-flowered inflorescences, and calyptrate calyx. A provisional IUCN status of Vulnerable is assigned. Memecylon amshoffiae was treated earlier in section Mouririoidea Jacques-Flix, but this is contraindicated by evidence from ovary and anther morphology and by recent molecular phylogenetic analyses. Together, M. amshoffiae and M. batekeanum are provisionally placed next to M. diluviorum Exell in section Polyanthema Engler. /// Dans ce travail est dcrit et illustr Memecylon batekeanum R. D. Stone & G. M. Walters du zone tampon du Parc National des Plateaux Batk du Sud-est Gabon. Cette nouvelle espce se rapproche de l'espce Camerounaise M. amshoffiae Jacques-Flix, mais s'en distingue par sa forme d'arbrisseau, ses jeunes rameaux 4-angulaires-ails, ses cymes peu fleuries, et son calice calyptriforme. Un statut prliminaire de Vulnrable est effectu selon les critres des Listes Rouges de l'UICN. Le traitement antrieure de M. amshoffiae dans la sect. Mouririoidea Jacques-Flix est contrindiqu par des preuves obtenues  partir des caractres morphologiques des ovaires et des anthres, ainsi que par des analyses molculaires phylogntiques. Memecylon amshoffiae et M. batekeanum sont provisoirement placs tous les deux prs de M. diluviorum Exell dans la sect. Polyanthema Engler.
10.2307/3393515|A new species of the Streptocarpus rexii aggregate is described from Itala Game Reserve in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa. The geographic isolation of S. kunhardtii, its pale methyl violet flowers, and long fruits distinguish it from S. roseoalbus, its closest relative. A second new species, S. hilburtianus, is described from two high-altitude localities in Mapumalanga, South Africa. The alliances of this species are unclear, although corolla coloration and leaf vestiture approach S. galpinii; however, it differs in its cylindrical corolla tube, its much shorter pedicels, and its distinctive pollen.
43289108|A novel classification here of the sub-Saharan and Madagascan genus Aristea Aiton (Iridaceae), with ca. 57 species, recognizes three subgenera, Aristea subg. Aristea (18 species), Aristea subg. Eucapsulares (Goldblatt) Goldblatt [ Aristea sect. Eucapsulares Goldblatt] (ca. 30 species), and Aristea subg. Pseudaristea (Pax) Goldblatt [ Aristea sect. Pseudoaristea Pax] (nine species). This replaces a 1940 classification by Henning Weimarck, which included eight sections. In this updated classification, Aristea subg. Aristea includes three sections, and Aristea subg. Eucapsulares, two sections. A lectotype, A. spiralis (L. f.) Ker Gawl., is designated for Aristea sect. Pseudaristea Pax [= Aristea subg. Pseudoaristea (Pax) Goldblatt].
10.2307/3392138|Recently Altamiranoa Rose ( Villadia sect. Altamiranoa (Rose) R. T. Clausen) was merged with Sedum L. For four Peruvian Altamiranoa species without valid names in Sedum we propose three new combinations: Sedum decipiens (Baker) Thiede & 't Hart, Sedum reniforme (H. Jacobsen) Thiede & 't Hart, and Sedum weberbaueri (Diels) Thiede & 't Hart, and one new name, Sedum plicatum Thiede & 't Hart. A lectotype is designated for Cotyledon decipiens Baker, the basionym of Sedum decipiens.
10.2307/3391824|A new species of Arracacia (Apiaceae) is described from the high mountains of Chiapas and Oaxaca, Mexico. Although sharply distinct in many respects, it is contrasted with A. pringlei J. Coulter & Rose, the Oaxacan taxon it most closely resembles.
10.2307/3391789|Stictocardia sivarajanii, a new species of Convolvulaceae from Kerala, India, is described and illustrated. A tabular comparison with its related species Stictocardia tiliifolia is given.
10.2307/3393384| Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie, Schradera reticulata (Rubiaceae, Schradereae). La nueva especie es similar a S. rotundata Standley ex Steyermark de Colombia. No obstante ambas se diferencian en que S. reticulata tiene hojas ms angostas, en su mayora oblongas a elpticas, la venacin terciaria es ligeramente prominente y finamente reticulada en ambas caras de la lmina foliar, el pice es corto acuminado, pednculo ms largo, involucro con dientes marginales, hipanto ms corto y lbulos de la corola ms largos. /// A new species, Schradera reticulata (Rubiaceae, Schradereae), is described and illustrated here. This species is similar to S. rotundata Standley ex Steyermark from Colombia. The two species differ in that S. reticulata has narrower and generally oblong to elliptic leaves, the tertiary venation is slightly prominent and finely reticulate on both foliar sides, the apex is short-acuminate, the peduncle longer, the involucre has marginal teeth, the hypanthium is shorter, and the corolla lobules are longer. 
10.2307/3391483|The Orizaba pinyon (Pinus cembroides subsp. orizabensis) is raised to specific status. Pinus orizabensis differs from P. cembroides in many characters, including needle and bark morphology and terpene chemistry.
3393407|While preparing a treatment of the genus Silene L. for the Generic Flora of Korea, the following novelty was found and is published in this contribution. Accepting the current generic concept of Silene, we noticed that one Korean endemic species, Melandrium umbellatum Nakai, should be transferred to Silene. However, transfer of the specific epithet to Silene would create a later homonym of Silene umbellata Gilibert (= Silene armeria L.). Therefore, we here provide the following new name: Silene myongcheonensis Suk-Pyo Hong & Hye-Kyoung Moon.
10.2307/3393259| A synopsis of Mesoamerican Jacquinia (Theophrastaceae) species with white, yellowish, or cream-colored flowers is presented. A key for their identification is provided. All of these species are restricted to northern Mesoamerica. Among these taxa Jacquinia sak-lol Carnevali, Hernndez-Aguilar & Tapia-Muoz, from the state of Quintana Roo in the Mexican Yucatn Peninsula, is proposed as new. The new entity is described and illustrated. The proposed novelty is related to Jacquinia paludicola Standley, but it is a shrub and features smaller, more coriaceous leaves with a revolute margin and larger flowers. /// Se presenta una sinopsis de las especies de Jacquinia (Theophrastaceae) de Mesoamrica con flores blancas, amarillentas o color crema. Se provee una clave para su identificacin. Estas especies estn restringidas al norte de Mesoamrica. Entre ellas, Jacquinia sak-lol Carnevali, Hernndez-Aguilar & Tapia-Muoz del estado de Quintana Roo en la Pennsula de Yucatn Mexicana es propuesta como nueva. La nueva entidad es descrita e ilustrada. La nueva especie es afn a Jacquinia paludicola Standley pero es un arbusto, tiene hojas de tamao menor y de textura ms coricea con el margen revoluto y flores mayores. 
10.2307/3392091|A new species, Stenandrium stenophyllum, is described and illustrated. It is related to S. hatschbachii Wasshausen but differs markedly from that taxon by its 3-verticillated leaves with narrow, linear-lanceolate blades. Both species are known only from Gro-Mogol, Minas Gerais, Brazil.
10.2307/3393059|Isoetes mattaponica is a rare quillwort of freshwater tidal rivers of eastern Virginia with a somatic chromosome number of 2n = 22. Megaspores have low rugulate muri on both the proximal and distal surfaces; the girdle is broad. Microspores are echinate-spinose with ornamented spines. Isoetes mattaponica may be one of the parents of several polyploids in the Southeastern United States.
10.2307/3391976|Brachymenium debilinerve differs from B. speciosum by its dark green color, weak costa, well-spaced, flat, caducous leaves having numerous quadrate alar cells, and a weakly developed limbidium. Brachymenium exoticosporum differs from all members of the genus in having massive, mostly linear, endosporic protonemata with mostly vertical end-walls. The endosporic protonemata of B. exoticosporum appear similar to those found in Ephemeropsis trentepohlioides. A key to the 16 species of Brachymenium in Central America is given.
3393310|The new species Polyalthia zhui X. L. Hou & S. J. Li, found from Hainan and southern Guangdong in southern China, is described and illustrated. It has previously been confused with Polyalthia nemoralis A. DC. or P. littoralis (Blume) Boerlage in China, but is distinguished on the basis of its green fleshy ovate petals, outer petals spreading ca. 4 x 2.5 mm, inner petals not fully spreading, somewhat bent to the inside, ca. 5-6 x 4-4.2 mm, 1 mm thick or more, its carpels pilose only in the lower half, and its non-lobed stigma.
10.2307/3391777|Preparation of the Gesneriaceae for the Flora of China has revealed new taxa, including one new genus, Paraisometrum; thirteen new species, Chirita atroglandulosa, C. napoensis, C. pungentisepala, C. pycnantha, C. shouchengensis, C. shuii, C. skogiana, C. wangiana, Didymocarpus subpalmatinervis, Hemiboea wangiana, Opithandra burttii, Oreocharis dentata, Paraisometrum mileense; and seven new combinations, Chirita demissa, Hemiboea subcapitata var. guangdongensis, Lysionotus microphyllus var. omeiensis, Lysionotus pauciflorus var. ikedae, Oreocharis aurea var. cordato-ovata, Paraboea glutinosa, and Tengia scopulorum var. potiflora. The new taxa are described, discussed, and compared with related taxa. The transfer and status changes are justified.
10.2307/3392146|Two new taxa of Fuchsia from northern and central Peru are described and illustrated: Fuchsia rivularis subsp. pubescens P. E. Berry & Hermsen, a member of the large section Fuchsia from Cajamarca, and Fuchsia mezae P. E. Berry & Hermsen, a member of the apetalous section Hemsleyella from Hunuco.
10.2307/3393244|Pseudostellaria sierrae is described as new from northern California. Glabrous stems and leaves, a V-shaped apical notch in each ligulate petal, five yellow anthers, and seeds with minute projections on each tubercle are features useful in distinguishing P. sierrae from P. jamesiana (Torrey) W. A. Weber & R. L. Hartman, the congener widely distributed in the western United States. Pseudostellaria sierrae is found in mixed oak or conifer forests.
20406267|A new species of Senna sect. Chamaefistula (DC. ex Colladon) H. S. Irwin & Barneby is described and illustrated under the name S. bracteosa D. Cardoso & L. P. Queiroz. This new species belongs to series Laxiflorae (Bentham) H. S. Irwin & Barneby and is related to S. lechriosperma H. S. Irwin & Barneby, both presenting a relatively wide pod (8-10 mm wide) and seeds transversely arranged inside the pod. It is distinguished from S. lechriosperma and from any other species of the series Laxiflorae by the lanate indument of the pod, larger bracts, larger flowers, the sepals densely tomentose, and the stamens glabrous. Senna bracteosa seems to be endemic to relictual hills surrounded by caatinga vegetation in the northeastern region of the state of Bahia, near the towns of Quijingue and Tucano, in eastern Brazil.
10.2307/3392149|Five Central American species of Dieffenbachia, D. beachiana Croat & Grayum, D. concinna Croat & Grayum, D. grayumiana Croat, D. hammelii Croat & Grayum, and D. tonduzii Croat & Grayum, as well as one species of Rhodospatha, R. pellucida Croat & Grayum, are described as new.
10.2307/3393105|Griffinia alba is described as new from Tapera, Pernambuco, in northeastern Brazil. It is most similar to the type species for the genus Griffinia, G. hyacinthina, which is known from the states of Rio de Janeiro and So Paulo in southeastern Brazil. It differs from this species by its cuneate leaf bases, and more numerous, entirely white flowers with longer pedicels and narrower tepals. Griffinia alba is the first white-flowered species to be described in submenus Griffinia. /// Griffinia alba  descrita como uma nova espcie do municpio de Tapera, Pernambuco, Brasil. Griffinia alba  mais semelhante na forma  G. hyacinthina, que  encontrada nos estados do Rio de Janiero e So Paulo. Difere desta pela base cuneada da folha, flores inteiramente brancas mais numerosas com pedicelos mais longos, e tpalas mais estreitas. Griffinia alba  a primeira Griffinia com flores cor de branco descrita no sobgnero Griffinia.
10.2307/3392257|Se describen dos especies nuevas del gnero Drosera provenientes de la Guayana Venezolana: Drosera hirticalyx y D. yutajensis. Las especies D. colombiana A. Fernndez y D. panamensis M. D. Correa & A. S. Taylor son consideradas sinnimos de D. cayennensis Sagot ex Diels, mientras que D. esmeraldae (Steyermark) Maguire & Wurdack es citada de Colombia y D. communis A. Saint-Hilaire es excluida de Venezuela. /// Two new species of Drosera are described from the Venezuelan Guayana: D. hirticalyx and D. yutajensis. Drosera colombiana A. Fernndez and D. panamensis M. D. Correa & A. S. Taylor are considered conspecific with D. cayennensis Sagot ex Diels. Drosera esmeraldae (Steyermark) Maguire & Wurdack is reported for Colombia, and the occurrence of D. communis A. Saint-Hilaire in Venezuela is disputed.
3393331|For the Theaceae treatment in the Flora of China, volume 12, it was found that several specific epithets have not yet been validly transferred from Gordonia Ellis to Polyspora Sweet ex G. Don. In this article the following five species are transferred from Gordonia to Polyspora: Polyspora chrysandra (Cowan) Hu ex B. Bartholomew & T. L. Ming, P. hainanensis (Hung T. Chang) C. X. Ye ex B. Bartholomew & T. L. Ming, P. longicarpa (Hung T. Chang) C. X. Ye ex B. Bartholomew & T. L. Ming, P. speciosa (Kochs) B. Bartholomew & T. L. Ming, and P. tonkinensis (Pitard) B. Bartholomew & T. L. Ming. Three species, Gordonia axillaris Roxburgh ex Ker Gawler, Gordonia tonkinensis Pitard, and Thea speciosa Kochs, as well as the one variety Gordonia axillaris var. acuminata E. Pritzel, are lectotypified.
20406266|Following recent phylogenetic work segregating Micranthes Haworth from Saxifraga L. (Saxifragaceae) and to complete the transfer of names from Saxifraga to Micranthes in North America, we are proposing the new combination M. hitchcockiana (Elvander) Brouillet & Gornall. Rsum. Les analyses phylogntiques rcentes ont distingu Micranthes Haworth de Saxifraga L. (Saxifragaceae). Afin de complter le transfert nomenclatural des espces de Saxifraga  Micranthes pour l'Amrique du Nord, nous proposons la nouvelle combinaison M. hitchcockiana (Elvander) Brouillet & Gornall.
3393436| Bulbophyllum boudetiana Fraga (Orchidaceae), a new species from Esprito Santo that grows in saxicolous vegetation mats on an inselberg in the Brazilian Atlantic forest, is described, illustrated, and compared with related species. This new species is related to Bulbophyllum kautskyi, from which it differs by yellow flowers with cream spots, abbreviated rhizomes, aggregate and ovoid pseudobulbs, petals scale-shaped, labellum thick-fleshy, and disc slightly sulcate and ciliate on the base. 
3393355| Field exploration and floristic research have revealed another plant species endemic to the peninsula of Baja California, Mexico. A new shrubby species (Amyris carterae) from the Sierra Guadalupe and Sierra de la Giganta, Baja California Sur, is described here. Distribution, associated vegetation, rarity, affinity to another species in the genus, and a botanical illustration are presented. /// Trabajo de campo e investigacin florstica han puesto de manifiesto una especie de planta endmica de la pennsula de Baja California, Mxico. Un arbusto (Amyris carterae) de la Sierra Guadalupe y Sierra de la Giganta, del estado de Baja California Sur se describe aqu como especie nueva para la ciencia. Se presentan la distribucin, vegetacin asociada, rareza, afinidad con otra especie en el gnero, as como una ilustracin del nuevo taxon. 
10.2307/3392123|The new combination Nageia nankoensis (Hayata) R. R. Mill is proposed, and the affinities of the species with N. formosensis and N. nagi are discussed briefly. Nageia nankoensis is endemic to northern Taiwan, N. formosensis only to the south tip of the island; the latter is not native in northern Taiwan as mis-stated by some authors. It is shown that this error may have arisen because of a wrong citation of the type of N. formosensis by Li, which has been followed in later literature.
40960822|Two new species, Rhododendron huangpingense Xiang Chen & Jia Y. Huang and R. lilacinum Xiang Chen & X. Chen (Ericaceae), from Guizhou Province, China, are described and illustrated. Rhododendron huangpingense is close to the morphologically similar species R. oreodoxa Franch. var. adenostylosum Fang & W. K. Hu and the sympatric species R. decorum Franch., from which it differs by having short yellowish brown hairs on the leaves, the rachis 15-18 mm long, a rose-colored corolla with deep rose flecks, and the stigma ca. 3.5 mm wide. Rhododendron lilacinum differs from the morphologically similar and sympatric species R. simsii Planch, by having smaller leaves, a shorter pedicel, a pale purple corolla, a smaller calyx, and shorter stamens. Both of the new species appear to be quite rare and therefore their conservation is highly desired.
10.2307/3393012|Marsdenia gallardoae, una nueva especie de Asclepiadaceae de Chiapas y Oaxaca del sur de Mxico, se caracteriza por tener el interior de la corola densamente puberulenta y por no presentar un callo en los senos de la misma. Comparte con M. trivirgulata Bartlett caractenstcas foliares y el color de la flor.
10.2307/3391539|Gerritea pseudopetiolata of the tribe Paniceae is described and illustrated. Leaf anatomy of this new genus is also included, and relationships with related genera within the Paniceae are discussed.
40300912|Hechtia caulescens Lpez-Ferrari, Espejo & Martnez-Correa (Bromeliaceae), known from the states of Morelos, Puebla, and Oaxaca in Mexico, is described and illustrated. The new species is compared with H. stenopetala Klotzsch, from which it differs by its larger flowers and floral bracts, and by its twice-branched inflorescences. /// Se describe e ilustra Hechtia caulescens Lpez-Ferrari, Espejo & Martnez-Correa (Bromeliaceae), conocida de los estados de Morelos, Puebla y Oaxaca, Mxico. La nueva especie se compara con H. stenopetala Klotzsch, de la cual difiere por sus flores y bracteas florales ms grandes y por sus inflorescencias ms ramificadas.
20406169|Pseudopiptocarpha garcia-barrigae H. Robinson & S. C. Keeley is described as new, and P. tovarensis (Gleason) H. Robinson & S. C. Keeley of Venezuela (Asteraceae, Vernonieae) is transferred from Lepidaploa (Cassini) Cassini. The new species and P. tovarensis have branching inflorescences unlike the two previously known members of Pseudopiptocarpha H. Robinson. All four species of Pseudopiptocarpha have Aynia H. Robinson-type pollen, which does not occur in Lepidaploa as redelimited. /// Se describe Pseudopiptocarpha garciabarrigae H. Robinson & S. C. Keeley como una nueva especie y se transfiere P. tovarensis (Gleason) H. Robinson & S. C. Keeley (Asteraceae, Vernonieae) desde Lepidaploa (Cassini) Cassini. Ambas especies tienen inflorescencias ramificadas, a differencia de las que presentan las otras dos especies conocidas para el gnero Pseudopiptocarpha H. Robinson. Las cuatro especies de Pseudopiptocarpha tienen polen tipo Aynia Robinson, el cual no se encuentra en Lepidaploa de acuerdo a su nueva circunscripcin.
10.2307/3391402|El gnero Haploclathra, hasta la fecha era desconocido de Per; pero recientes colecciones en la Regin Loreto, han reportado que se encuentra representado por dos especies: una es Haploclathra paniculata var. paniculata, conocida de Brasil; y la otra es Haploclathra cordata, nombre que se propone porque las hojas con base subcordada y el tamao de las inflorescencias y de los frutos indican que se trata de una nueva especie. /// Heretofore, the genus Haploclathra was not known from Peru, but recent collections from the Loreto Region have indicated that in fact two species are represented. One, Haploclathra paniculata var. paniculata, is known from Brazil, and the other, Haploclathra cordata, is a new species described and illustrated herein.
3393309| A new seaside endemic species, Dyckia martinellii B. R. Silva & Forzza, from Rio de Janeiro State, Brazil, is described and illustrated. The genus was represented in this state only by D. pseudococcinea L. B. Smith, from which D. martinellii can be distinguished by a rosette with a larger diameter; longer and wider leaves bearing straight, patent-antrorse larger spines; basal scape bracts densely arranged, with the others longer than or equaling the internodes; floral bracts castaneous, entire, white-lepidote; and sepals orange with a castaneous apex. /// Uma nova espcie endmica do litoral, Dyckia martinellii B. R. Silva & Forzza, do estado do Rio de Janeiro, Brasil  descrita e ilustrada. O gnero estava representado neste estado apenas por D. pseudococcinea L. B. Smith da qual D. martinellii pode ser diferenciada pela roseta de maior dimetro; pelas folhas maiores e mais largas, espinhos patente-antrosos maiores; pelas brcteas basais do escapo congestas as demais maiores ou igualando os entrens; brcteas florais castanhas, inteiras, alvo-lepidotas e pelas spalas laranja com pice castanho. 
10.2307/3391443|As a result of the current general inventory of the flora of Costa Rica, six new species of Acanthaceae are described. Three, Justicia aurantiimutata, J. deaurata, and J. peninsularis, are known only from the Osa Peninsula, or nearby. The other three, Habracanthus tilaranensis, Kalbreyeriella rioquebradasiana, and Razisea villosa, are more widespread but still known only from Costa Rica.
10.2307/3393083|The annual, auriculate-leaved species of Lesquerella (Brassicaceae) of the southeastern United States are transferred to the new genus Paysonia. The new combinations Paysonia auriculata, P. densipila, P. grandiflora, P. lasiocarpa, P. lasiocarpa subsp. berlandieri, P. lasiocarpa subsp. heterochroma, P. lescurii, P. lyrata, P. perforata, and P. stonensis are proposed. The distinguishing characters between the combined taxon Lesquerella-Physaria are discussed. A detailed description of the genus and a key to the species are provided.
40300916|Onobrychis kuchanensis Ranjbar, Hajmoradi & Karamian, a singular new species endemic to Iran, is described and illustrated. The new species belongs to Onobrychis Miller subgen. Sisyrosema (Bunge) Grossheim sect. Hymenobrychis DC Onobry chis kuchanensis is distributed in Khorasan Province in northeastern Iran. It is closely related to O. amoena Popov & Vvedensky and is distinguished by its corolla neither distinctly striate nor purple maculate and its calyx shorter than 5 mm. The conservation status is evaluated as Vulnerable (VU) according to IUCN Red List criteria. Moreover, O. amoena subsp. meshhedensis Sirjaev & Rechinger is raised to specific rank as O. meshhedensis (Sirjaev & Rechinger) Ranjbar on the basis of morphological evidence. Relationships between both species and their closest relatives are discussed.
10.2307/3393176|During preparation of the account of Dioscoreaceae for the Flora of China, it was noticed that one species is illegitimately named, being a later homonym: Dioscorea parviflora C. T. Ting (1979), not Philippi (1864). The following new name (nomen novum) is therefore proposed here: D. sinoparviflora C. T. Ting, M. G. Gilbert & Turland.
10.2307/3392113|A key to and some remarks on Maprounea in the Neotropics are presented. Maprounea guianensis var. obtusata is discussed and raised to specific rank with the new name Maprounea amazonica. Maprounea brasiliensis is accepted as distinct from M. guianensis. The taxa are separated mainly by characters of the leaves and by fruit size. Additionally, Maprounia glauca is established as a new synonym of Mabea taquari, and a lectotype is designated for the latter.
3393450|Four new species of Nasa ser. Alatae (Urban & Gilg) Weigend are described from the Amotape-Huancabamba Zone in northern Peru. The new species Nasa stolonifera has extensive underground stolons and forms clonal stands, whereas N. victorii has angular stems with elevated longitudinal ridges. New species Nasa pongalamesa and N. lambayequensis are closely allied to N. carnea from northern Peru and N. loxensis from Ecuador. Nasa amaluzensis Weigend, previously only known from the type collection in southern Ecuador, is reported as new to the Peruvian flora. The flowers of Nasa ser. Alatae are discussed as funnel-revolver flowers, based on their morphology. A distribution map of the newly described taxa and a key to all known species of Nasa ser. Alatae in Peru are provided.
20406132|Five new suffrutescent to shrubby Jaltomata Schlechtendal species (Solanaceae) of the department of Cajamarca, Peru, are described and illustrated. Jaltomata contumacensis S. Leiva & Mione has a light green, urceolate-tubular corolla and grows in the province of Contumaz between 2530 and 3000 m; J. lanata S. Leiva & Mione has a whitish purple to pale purple, short-tubular corolla and grows in the province of San Pablo between 1850 and 2400 m; J. leivae Mione has a red-violet, urceolate corolla containing red nectar and grows in the province of Contumaz between 2560 and 2650 m; J. oppositifolia S. Leiva & Mione has a white, broadly infundibular to rotate corolla and grows in province Chota between 2250 and 3090 m; and J. yacheri Mione & S. Leiva has a blue-purple, urceolate corolla and grows in province Hualgayoc at 3460 m. The fruits of two of these species are eaten by people.
20406165|A new endemic species of Solanum L. sect. Holophylla (G. Don) Walpers s.l. is described from Ecuador: Solanum coalitum S. Knapp is only known from the paramo of Cerro Toledo in Parque Nacional Podocarpus in the province of Loja. Solanum coalitum had been confused with the more widespread S. stenophyllum Dunal; its differences from that species are detailed and its species group membership and potential relationships within section Holophylla are discussed. The species is illustrated and given a preliminary conservation assessment of Endangered. /// Se describe una especie nueva de Solanum L. seccin Holophylla (G. Don) Walpers s.l. endmica del Ecuador: Solanum coalitum S. Knapp se conoce nicamente del pramo del Cerro Toledo en el Parque Nacional Podocarpus en la provincia de Loja. Solanum coalitum ha sido confundida con S. stenophyllum Dunal, una especie de distribucin ms amplia; se detalla sus diferencias con esa especie y se discute el grupo de especies al que pertenece y las relaciones potenciales dentro de la seccin Holophylla. Se ilustra la especie y se le atribuye un estado de conservacin preliminar de En Peligro.
20406192|Thirty Neotropical Miconia Ruiz & Pavn taxa described by Naudin and available in BR or P have been lectotypified: M. alternans Naudin, M. amygdalina Naudin, M. anceps Naudin, M. axilliflora Naudin, M. brachystyla Naudin, M. bracteolaris Naudin, M. claussenii Naudin, M. fothergilla (DC.) Naudin var. gracilipes Naudin, M. impetiolaris (Swartz) D. Don var. pandurifolia Naudin, M. lucida Naudin, M. melanodendron Naudin, M. molybdea Naudin, M. myriocarpa Naudin, M. myrtillifolia Naudin, M. obovalis Naudin, M. otodesma Naudin, M. plukenetii Naudin, M. proteoides A. Saint-Hilaire & Naudin, M. rhamnoidea Naudin, M. rhytidophylla Naudin, M. riedelii Naudin, M. rivoeriae Naudin, M. stellifera Naudin, M. stipularis Naudin, M. tentaculifera Naudin, M. tococoides Naudin, M. versicolor Naudin, M. verticilliflora Steudel ex Naudin, Octomeris macrodon Naudin, and Staphidium triste Richard ex Naudin. /// Neste trabalho foram lectotipificados trinta txons neotropicais pertencentes a Miconia Ruiz & Pavn, descritos por Naudin e depositados em BR ou P: M. alternans Naudin, M. amygdalina Naudin, M. anceps Naudin, M. axilliflora Naudin, M. brachystyla Naudin, M. bracteolaris Naudin, M. claussenii Naudin, M. fothergilla (DC.) Naudin var. gracilipes Naudin, M. impetiolaris (Swartz) D. Don var. pandurifolia Naudin, M. lucida Naudin, M. melanodendron Naudin, M. molybdea Naudin, M. myriocarpa Naudin, M. myrtillifolia Naudin, M. obovalis Naudin, M. otodesma Naudin, M. plukenetii Naudin, M. proteoides A. Saint-Hilaire & Naudin, M. rhamnoidea Naudin, M. rhytidophylla Naudin, M. riedelii Naudin, M. rivoeriaeNaudin, M. stellifera Naudin, M. stipularis Naudin, M. tentaculifera Naudin, M. tococoides Naudin, M. versicolor Naudin, M. verticilliflora Steudel ex Naudin, Octomeris macrodon Naudin e Staphidium triste Richard ex Naudin.
10.2307/3393009|Two new species of Commelinaceae are described from the Neotropics. Dichorisandra amabilis J. R. Grant, widespread from southern Mexico to Panama, consists of erect herbs formerly included in D. hexandra (Aublet) Standley, which is here restricted to scandent plants. Tradescantia petricola J. R. Grant, disjunct from Costa Rica to Venezuela, belongs to Tradescantia sect. Mandonia D. R. Hunt.
10.2307/3392026|Pitcairnia mirandae Utley & Burt-Utley (Bromeliaceae) is described as new from the state of Chiapas in Mexico. This new species is compared with P. breedlovei Lyman B. Smith, which it most closely resembles.
10.2307/3392121|L'tude des caractres morphologiques permet la description de trois espces nouvelles d'Oleaceae de l'Archipel des Comores: Noronhia cochleata Labat, M. Pignal & O. Pascal, Chionanthus cordifolius Labat, M. Pignal & O. Pascal et C. insularis Labat, M. Pignal & O. Pascal. Les oliviers sauvages de l'Archipel sont pour la premire fois rattachs  Olea capensis L. s.l. /// Morphological characters support the description of three new species of Oleaceae from the Comoro Archipelago: Noronhia cochleata Labat, M. Pignal & O. Pascal, Chionanthus cordifolius Labat, M. Pignal & O. Pascal, and C. insularis Labat, M. Pignal & O. Pascal. For the first time the Archipelago "Wild Olive Tree" is identified as Olea capensis L. s.l.
23259429|Ligustrum guangdongense R. J. Wang & H. Z. Wen (Oleaceae), from Guangdong, China, is described and illustrated. The new species is similar to L. punctifolium M. C. Chang and L. morrisonense Kaneh. & Sasaki, based on the small leaf blades and terminal inflorescences. Ligustrum guangdongense differs from L. punctifolium by having sparsely punctate glands on the abaxial leaf blade surface (vs. densely so), a corolla tube longer than the corolla lobes (1.61.9:1 vs. 1.11.3:1), and stamens that are included within (vs. exserted). Ligustrum guangdongense differs from L. morrisonense by having abaxially punctate leaf blades (vs. not punctate), typically 12 to 28 flowers in an inflorescence (vs. two or three), and a corolla tube that is shorter relative to the corolla lobes. The pollen grains of the new species are subprolate, with tricolpate apertures and a reticulate exine. The IUCN conservation status of L. guangdongense is assessed as Critically Endangered (CR).
20406060|Phainantha shuariorum (Melastomataceae) from sandstone mountains of the Cordillera del Cndor region in southeastern Ecuador is described and illustrated; it is a disjunct species in a genus that is otherwise known only from the Guayana Shield region of northeastern South America. It resembles P. laxiflora and P. maguirei, with which it shares the climbing, twining habit, adventitious roots at the stem nodes, and leaves alternate by abortion of one leaf per pair, but from which it differs in the tri-nerved venation. /// describe e ilustra Phainantha shuariorum (Melastomataceae) de las montaas de arenisca de la regin de la Cordillera del Cndor en el sudeste de Ecuador; es una especie disyunta de un gnero que, de otra forma, slo se conoce del Escudo Guayans en el nordeste de Amrica del Sur. Se parece a P. laxiflora y P. maguirei por el hbito trepador y voluble, las races adventicias en los nudos del tallo y las hojas alternas por aborto de una de las hojas de cada par; pero se distingue de ambas por tener la nervadura trinerve.
20406170|Verbascum azerbaijanense Sharifnia & Assadi is described and illustrated as a new species. This new species occurs in northwest Iran (Azerbaijan province). It is related to V. geminiflorum Hochstetter but is distinguished from it by the length of the inflorescence, the glandular hairs of the calyx, and the absence of fertile bracteoles.
10.2307/3391849|Pegaeophyton nepalense is described and illustrated. Its relationship to the other species of Pegaeophyton is discussed.
40856301|A new species, Pandanus ankaranensis Callm. & Laivao (Pandanaceae), is described from the karst region of Ankarana in northern Madagascar. It resembles P. grallatus B. C. Stone, another member of Pandanus sect. Mammillares H. St. John occurring in the area. The new taxon can be distinguished by its larger and wider leaves that are persistent on the branches, the stipe often lying on the rocks where plants grow, and its larger syncarps. Pandanus ankaranensis is classified as Vulnerable based on IUCN Red List criteria. Une nouvelle espce, Pandanus ankaranensis Callm. & Laivao (Pandanaceae), est dcrite de la rgion karstique de l'Ankarana au nord de Madagascar. Elle est proche de P. grallatus B. C. Stone, une autre espce de Pandanus sect. Mammillares H. St. John qui pousse dans la rgion, mais s'en distingue par des feuilles plus longues et plus larges qui sont persistantes sur les branches, le stipe souvent couch sur les rochers et par les dimensions de son syncarpe. Pandanus ankaranensis est class Vulnrable selon le Liste Rouge de l'UICN.
3393443|The new species of Miliusa tirunelvelica (Annonaceae), collected from the Kalakkad-Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve on the Western Ghats of Tamil Nadu, is described and illustrated. It is distinguished by the pubescence on branchlets, petioles, and pedicels; by the shape of the stamen's connective and monocarp apices; and by its stipitate fruit, with the stipe to 20 mm.
10.2307/3392216|The new combination Jaltomata chihuahuensis (Bitter) Mione & Bye is based on Saracha chihuahuensis Bitter. This species is distributed in Mexico at the northern end of the Sierra Madre Occidental in the states of Chihuahua, Durango, and Sonora. Morphological characters, artificial hybridizations, and distinct names applied by the Tarahumara, all indicate that J. chihuahuensis is distinct from the more widely distributed but sympatric J. procumbens. Fruits of J. chihuahuensis are consumed raw by the Tarahumara people and are either purple or green at maturity. Chromosome number: n = 12.
10.2307/3391553|Antiostelma (Asclepiadaceae), previously recognized as a section of Hoya, is raised to generic rank. The new combinations Antiostelma lantsangense (Tsiang & P. T. Li) P. T. Li and A. manipurense (D. B. Deb) P. T. Li are proposed.
3393350| Se describe e ilustra Werauhia anitana (Bromeliaceae), una nueva especie de Costa Rica, con inflorescencias dsticas y brcteas punteadoverrucosas, densamente imbricadas an despus de la antesis. Se discuten las relaciones con los taxones relacionados (i.e., W. osaensis, W. viridiflora). /// Werauhia anitana (Bromeliaceae), a new species from Costa Rica with distichous inflorescences, and punctate-verrucose and densely imbricate bracts (after anthesis), is described and illustrated. Relationships with related taxa (i.e., W. osaensis, W. viridiflora) are given. 
41811685|Agave temacapulinensis A. Vzquez & Chzaro (Agavaceae) is described and illustrated from Jalisco, Mexico. The new species belongs to Agave L. subg. Agave and is a member of the Ditepalae group, sensu Gentry. It is related to A. wocomahi Gentry in terms of its rosette size, solitary habit in most cases, the smooth texture of the leaves, the red-tipped dimorphic tepals, and the deep floral tube. Agave temacapulinensis differs from A. wocomahi in having light gray, glaucous rosettes (vs. dark green to glaucous green); short acuminate leaves (vs.long acuminate); crenate margins (vs. straight to undulate) with smaller marginal teeth (8-10 mm vs. 10-20 mm); larger panicles (5.5-6.5 m vs. 3-5 m) with more lateral branches (16 to 18 vs. 8 to 15); and smaller seeds (5-6  3-4 mm vs. 7  4.5-5 mm). Una nueva especie, Agave temacapulinensis A. Vzquez & Chzaro (Agavaceae), es descrita e ilustrada de Jalisco, Mexico. Pertenece a Agave L. subg. Agave y corresponde al grupo Ditepalae sensu Gentry. La especie est relacionada con A. wocomahi Gentry en trminos de tamao de roseta, hbito no surculoso en la mayora de los casos, textura suave de las hojas, tpalos dimrficos con puntas rojizas y tubo floral profundo, pero difiere de sta ultima por poseer rosetas de color glauco-gris claro (vs. verde oscuro-verde glauco); hojas cortamente acuminadas (vs. largamente acuminadas); mrgenes crenados (vs. rectos a ondulados); con dientes ms pequeos (8-10 mm vs. 10-20 mm); panculas ms grandes (5.5-6.5 m vs. 3-5 m) con ms ramas laterales (16 a 18 vs. 8 a 15); y semillas ms pequeas (5-6  3-4 mm vs. 7  4.5-5 mm).
10.2307/3393178|Begonia salesopolensis and B. jureiensis, known only from a montane forest in the state of So Paulo, Brazil, are described and illustrated. The former belongs to section Ewaldia, but it is distinguished from the other taxa of this section by its fleshy capsules with rudimentary or absent wings. The flattened style branches, obconical anthers, and the bilamellate placentae, ovuliferous throughout place B. jureiensis in section Pereira, and the peltate, glabrous leaf blades distinguish it from the other species of this section, B. edmundoi Brade. /// Begonia salesopolensis e B. jureiensis, conhecidas apenas para a Serra do Mar no Estado de So Paulo, so descritas e ilustradas. A primeira distinguese das demais espcies da Seo Ewaldia pelas cpsulas carnosas com alas rudimentares ou ausentes. Os ramos do estilete achatados e as anteras obcnicas enquadram B. jureiensis na seo Pereira, e suas folhas peltadas e glabras diferenciam-na da outra espcie desta seo, B. edmundoi Brade.
20406159|Astragalus darwinianus Gmez-Sosa, a new endemic species (Leguminoseae, Galegeae) from the south of Argentina, is described, illustrated, and compared with the morphologically similar A. patagonicus (Philippi) Spegazzini based on vegetative characteristics and with A. mendocinus Gmez-Sosa based on fruit morphology. The new entity has decumbent stems, racemes that are (2)3- to 4-flowered, and legumes that are unilocular, incurved, and incanous pubescent. /// Astragalus darwinianus Gmez-Sosa, una nueva especie endmica del sur de Argentina, se describe, ilustra y se compara con A. patagonicus (Philippi) Spegazzini con las que comparte caractersticas vegetativas y con A. mendocinus Gmez-Sosa similares por la morfologa del fruto. El nuevo ejemplar tiene tallos decumbentes, racimos con (2)3-4 flores, legumbre unilocular, incurva e incano pubescente.
10.2307/3391970|A new species of Inga, discovered by one of the authors (HV), is described and named as Inga megaphylla Poncy & Vester. The architecture of this small understory cauliflorous tree is described and compared with that of another understory species recently described from French Guiana, Inga retinocarpa Poncy.
40300915|A new species of Diandrolyra Stapf (Poaceae, Bambusoideae, Olyreae), D. pygmaea Soderstrom & Zuloaga ex R. P. Oliveira & L. G. Clark, from Bahia, Brazil, is described and illustrated. This species is known only from southern Bahia, growing in the Atlantic Forest region. It is compared and contrasted with its congeners, D. bicolor Stapf and D. tatianae Soderstrom & Zuloaga, and the Bahian distribution of the three species is mapped. Distinguishing features of D. pygmaea include its small stature and two (or three) pairs of spikelets per racemose inflorescence. /// Uma nova espcie de Diandrolyra Stapf (Poaceae, Bambusoideae, Olyreae), D. pygmaea Soderstrom & Zuloaga ex R. P. Oliveira & L. G. Clark, para a Bahia, Brazil, est sendo descrita e ilustrada. Esta espcie  conhecida apenas para o sudeste da Bahia, crescendo em reas de Mata Atlantica higrfila. Est sendo comparada com as outras espcies congenricas, D. bicolor Stapf e D. tatianae Soderstrom & Zuloaga, e a distribuio das tres especies na Bahia  mapeada. Caractersticas distintivas de D. pygmaea incluem sua pequena estatura e dois (ou trs) pares de espiguetas por inflorescncia racemosa.
10.2307/3393155|Based on morphological, anatomical, and molecular evidence, the Brazilian endemic grass Arthropogon lanceolatus is reclassified in the newly described, monotypic genus Canastra. Canastra lanceolata is illustrated, and the genus is compared with the putatively related taxa in the Paniceae: Altoparadisium, Achlaena, Homolepis, Streptostachys, Panicum sects. Laxa, Lorea, and Prionitia, and Cliffordiochloa.
10.2307/3392085|A new name, Geranium tanii Aedo & Muoz Garmendia, is proposed for the illegitimate later homonym Geranium trifoliatum Z. M. Tan.
41811686|Pseudosporochnus Potoni & Bernard (1904; fossil Cladoxylopsida) has been viewed as one of the iconic vascular plants in the Middle Devonian, but the type of the generic name remains problematic. Although P. verticillatus (Krej) Obrhel has been previously regarded as the type of the generic name, its so-called basionym Chondrites verticillatus Krej was not validly published and thereby has no nomenclatural status. Thus, the specific epithet verticillatus has no priority over krejcii, which Potoni and Bernard first used (1904) for the species of Pseudosporochnus, and the combination P. verticillatus was not validly published. The name P. verticillatus that Obrhel intended to combine in 1961 is rather a new species name and should be cited as P. verticillatus Krej ex Obrhel. However, P. verticillatus, when published (Obrhel, 1961), was an illegitimate superfluous name for P. krejcii (Stur) Potoni & Bernard. Both names attach to a lectotype designated by Obrhel (i.e., D-364, National Museum at Prague) and were originally used under the name Sporochnus krejcii Stur. Pseudosporochnus krejcii (Stur) Potoni & Bernard should be the type of Pseudosporochnus Potoni & Bernard.
10.2307/3391568|Senecio serranus from Paran, Brazil, is described as new.It is related to Senecio dichrous (Bong.) Schultz-Bip., but does not have glandular hairs and does have leaves of the same color on both surfaces. Both species belong to Senecio sect. Dichroa Cabr. and unlike all other ones of the section, have rayless heads with only one type of floret.
10.2307/3393088|A new species and a new subspecies of Tidestromia are described and illustrated. Tidestromia valdesiana, restricted to Coahuila, Mexico, is characterized by the absence of an involucre and tepals lanceolate, aristate at the apex with a prominent midnerve and subulate trichomes. Tidestromia lanuginosa subsp. eliassoniana is characterized by having trichomes with the terminal cell projections either irregular (as those of the subsp. lanuginosa) or spreading, and microspinulose pollen, which is unique within the genus. A distribution map for the two recognized subspecies of T. lanuginosa is provided. The new combination T. suffruticosa var. oblongifolia is proposed, and T. oblongifolia subsp. cryptantha is reduced to synonymy under the former; both names are lectotypified. /// Se describen e ilustran una especie y una subespecie nuevas de Tidestromia. Tidestromia valdesiana, endmica de Coahuila, Mxico, se caracteriza por los tpalos lanceolados de pice aristado con la vena media prominente y tricomas subulados, as como por no tener involucro. Tidestromia lanuginosa subsp. eliassoniana se caracteriza por tener tricomas con proyecciones de las clulas terminales irregulares (como en la subsp. lanuginosa) o patentes, as como polen microespinuloso que es nico en el gnero. Se incluye un mapa de distribucin de las dos subespecies reconocidas de T. lanuginosa. Adems se propone la combinacin nueva T. suffruticosa var. oblongifolia, reducindose como sinnimo T. oblongifolia subsp. cryptantha; ambos nombres son lectotipificados.
10.2307/3392196|Se describe e ilustra la especie nueva Rudgea grandifructa C. M. Taylor & M. Monsalve y se amplian las descripciones de las especies poco conocidas Psychotria megistophylla Standley y Rudgea colombiana Standley. Estas especies provienen de la regin fitogeogrfica del Choc, y el trabajo se basa principalmente en especmenes colectados para el inventario florstico de la regin de Bajo Calima, Valle, Colombia. /// The new species Rudgea grandifructa C. M. Taylor & M. Monsalve is described and illustrated, and expanded descriptions are presented for the poorly known species Psychotria megistophylla Standley and Rudgea colombiana Standley. All are from the Choc phytogeographic region; this work is based on specimens collected for the floristic inventory of the Bajo Calima region, Valle, Colombia.
10.2307/3392967|Six new species of Palicourea Aublet are described and illustrated: P. calophlebioides from Costa Rica differs from P. calophlebia Standley of the Andes in part by its purple inflorescences; P. ianthina from western Panama differs from P. chiriquina Standley of the same region in part by its purple inflorescences and longer calyx limbs; P. premontana from Ecuador differs from P. semirasa Standley of Venezuela and Bolivia in part by its glabrous corollas; P. quinquepyrena from northern Peru is closely related to P. ulloana C. M. Taylor of Ecuador but differs from that species in part by its larger, subsessile leaves; P. roseofaucis from western Panama differs from P. sulphurea (Ruiz & Pavn) DC. of the Andes in part by its white to pink corollas; and P. stellata from eastcentral Colombia, with yellow flowers, is unusual in its well-developed fleshy appendages on the corolla lobes.
20406303|Two new combinations are proposed in Syringa L. (Oleaceae) based on examination of specimens, population sampling, and character analysis: S. tomentella Bureau & Franchet subsp. yunnanensis (Franchet) Jin Y. Chen & D. Y. Hong, and S. tomentella subsp. sweginzowii (Koehne & Lingelsheim) Jin Y. Chen & D. Y. Hong. Syringa wilsonii C. K. Schneider is treated as a synonym of S. tomentella subsp. sweginzowii. The lectotype of S. sweginzowii Koehne & Lingelsheim is designated.
10.2307/3392986|Se describen e ilustran dos nuevas especies ecuatorianas de Acalypha L., A. websteri y A. stellata, y se comentan las principales diferencias con las especies afines. Se proponen tambin seis nuevos sinnimos de cuatro especies presentes en Ecuador. /// Two new species of Acalypha L. are described and illustrated, A. websteri and A. stellata, based on Ecuadorian material. Comments on the systematics of related species are included. As well, six new synonyms are proposed for four Ecuadorian species.
10.2307/3391433|Pottia fosbergii, of the southwestern United States and Mexico, is recognized at the varietal level: P. starkeana var. fosbergii.
10.2307/3393085|The Latin diagnosis of Oxypetalum rusticum Rapini is provided to validate the species, proposed but not validly published in the survey of the Asclepiadoideae from the Espinhao Range of Minas Gerais, Brazil. The species, endemic to the Diamantina Plateau, is closely related to O. insigne (Decaisne) Malme and O. glabrum (Decaisne) Malme, differing mainly by the wooly indumentum of the branches and the longer corpusculum of the pollinaria.
23018440|A new species, Castanopsis glabrifolia J. Q. Li & Li Chen, and one new name, C. hsiensiui (X. M. Chen & B. P. Yu) J. Q. Li & Li Chen (Fagaceae), are described from Hainan, China. They both grow on sandy beaches. Castanopsis glabrifolia is closely related to C. chinensis (Spreng.) Hance, differing from it by having smaller leaves, shorter petioles, fewer secondary veins, and smaller cupules that are incompletely covered by shorter spines. Castanopsis chinensis var. hainanica X. M. Chen & B. P. Yu is treated as a new synonym of C. glabrifolia. The new name C. hsiensiui is proposed, based on C. hainanensis Merr. var. litoralis X. M. Chen & B. P. Yu, with the variety recognized at higher rank based on its glabrous branches and petioles, the smaller cupules with the external surfaces visible, and the nuts that are glabrous or sparsely pubescent near the apex.
27765239|Eight Andean species of Symplocos Jacq. (Symplocaceae) are described as new to science. They include: S. condorensis B. Sthl, S. neillii B. Sthl, and S. vanderwerffii B. Sthl from southern Ecuador (Zamora-Chinchipe and Morona-Santiago provinces); S. golondrinae B. Sthl from northern Ecuador (Carchi Province); S. guacamayensis B. Sthl from east-central Ecuador (Napo Province); S. fragilis B. Sthl and S. ovata B. Sthl from northern Peru (Amazonas Department); and S. dolichopoda B. Sthl from southern Peru (Cusco Department). Symplocos spruceana (Miers) Grke and S. nuda Humb. & Bonpl. are reported as new to Ecuador and Peru, respectively.
10.2307/3393267|A new species in Rubiaceae (Gardenieae), Rothmannia daweishanensis Y. M. Shui & W. H. Chen, is described from Yunnan, China. Its diagnostic characters and close relationship with Rothmannia vietnamensis Tirvengadum are discussed.
3393402| A new species of Schwartzia, S. pterosara, is validated. This species is known only from the vicinity of Baeza, Napo Province, Ecuador. A key to and a synopsis of the Ecuadorean species of Schwartzia are provided. Four Schwartzia species are presently recognized from Ecuador, with S. chocoensis and S. diaz-piedrahitae as first records for the country. /// Se valida una nueva especie de Schwartzia, S. pterosara. La nueva especie se conoce nicamente de los alrededores de Baeza en la Provincia de Napo (Ecuador). Se presentan una clave y una sinopsis para las especies ecuatorianas de Schwartzia. As, Schwartzia est representado en Ecuador por cuatro especies, siendo registradas por primera vez para el pas S. chocoensis y S. diazpiedrahitae. 
23259427|A key to and descriptions of the seven species of Ocotea Aubl. (Lauraceae) with bisexual flowers and fistulose twigs occurring in the Andes are presented. Of the seven species, five are newly described: O. beekmanii van der Werff, O. cuatrecasasii van der Werff, both from Colombia, O. fistulosa van der Werff from Ecuador, O. magnifrons van der Werff described from Ecuador and also in Colombia, and O. obovatifolia van der Werff from Ecuador.
10.2307/3392069|Alyxia fosbergii, endemic to Henderson Island, and Glochidion comitum, endemic to Pitcairn, are here described as new.
10.2307/3393039|Licania Adolphoduckei and L. sothersiae from the Reserva Florestal Adolpho Ducke near Manaus, Brazil, are described as new, and their relationship within the genus is discussed.
10.2307/3393568|The following new species are proposed: Cladocolea nitida Kuijt, C. peruviensis Kuijt, Struthanthus andersonii Kuijt, S. lewisii Kuijt, S. longibracteatus Kuijt, and S. tortistylus Kuijt (Loranthaceae), Dendrophthora equisetoides Kuijt, D. harlingii Kuijt, and D. meridana Kuijt (Viscaeae). Additionally, two transfers are made, one to Cladocolea, C. alternifolia (Eichler) Kuijt (Loranthaceae), and one to Dendrophthora, D. warmingii (Eichler) Kuijt.
20406220|Se describen e ilustran tres nuevas especies de Bulbostylis Kunth (Cyperaceae) de Sudamrica: B. asper M. G. Lpez del noreste de Argentina y centro del Paraguay oriental, esta especie fue confundida con B. hirtella (Schrader ex Schultes) Nees ex Urban; B. guaglianoneae M. G. Lpez de Misiones, Argentina, es afn a B. sphaerocephala (Boeckeler) Lindman; y B. subtilis M. G. Lpez del noreste de Argentina, centro-oeste de Bolivia, sudeste de Brasil y Paraguay oriental, que se asemeja a B. loefgrenii (Boeckeler) Prata & M. G. Lpez. /// Three new species of Bulbostylis Kunth (Cyperaceae) from South America are described and illustrated: B. aspera M. G. Lpez of Argentina and the center of eastern Paraguay, which was previously confused with B. hirtella (Schrader ex Schultes) Nees ex Urban; B. guaglianoneae M. G. Lpez of Misiones, Argentina, which is related to B. sphaerocephala (Boeckeler) Lindman; and B. subtilis M. G. Lpez of northeastern Argentina, center-west Bolivia, southeastern Brazil, and eastern Paraguay, which resembles B. loefgrenii (Boeckeler) Prata & M. G. Lpez.
10.2307/3391894|Amyris oblanceolata, a new species from northwestern Nicaragua, is described, and its relationships to other Central American species with opposite, trifoliolate leaves are discussed.
40856322|Myrcia concisa Sobral & Leoni, a new species of Myrtaceae from rainforests of the southeastern Brazilian state of Minas Grais, is described, illustrated, and evaluated for its conservation status according to IUCN criteria. The new species is apparently related to M. pubescens DC, from which it is set apart by the narrower blades and uniflorous to triflorous inflorescences. Myrcia concisa Sobral & Leoni, urna nova especie de Myrtaceae das florestas ombrfilas do estado de Minas Gerais, na regio sudeste do Brasil,  descrita, ilustrada e avahada em seu status de conservaao de acord com os criterios da IUCN. A nova especie  considerada prxima a M. pubescens DC, da qual se distingue pelas lminas mais estreitas e inflorescencias unifloras ou trifloras.
40300954|A distinctive new species from the Neotropics, Rinorea zygomorpha H. E. Ballard & Wahlert (Violaceae), is described and illustrated. It has several character states unique to Neotropical Rinorea Aublet, including a strongly zygomorphic corolla and single-seeded capsule, which distinguish it from other New World species. The new species is also aberrant in several respects in the family, with bifid dorsal connective appendages, stipitate ovary and fruit, and lateral attachment on the laterally compressed seed. A key is presented to separate this new species from other Neotropical members of Rinorea. An assessment of IUCN status using Arc-View GIS software with georeferenced localities places the new species in the Least Concern category.
20406218|Oryctina costaricensis Kuijt (Loranthaceae), from the Osa Peninsula of Costa Rica, is described and illustrated. It represents the first record of the genus in Mesoamerica, the remainder of the genus being South American.
40300948|En el presente trabajo, proponemos la nueva combinacin Hofmeisterella falcata (Linden & Reichenbach f.) Nauray & A. Galn para la flora colombiana. Esta especie difiere de H. eumicroscopica (Reichenbach f.) Reichenbach f. por sus flores con spalos y ptalos ms anchos y por el ginostemo y el labelo con cerdas conspicuas. En consecuencia, el gnero Hofmeisterella Reichenbach f. est formado por dos especies, y no es un gnero monoespecfico. Adems, se designa formalmente el lectotipo de Telipogon falcatus Linden & Reichenbach f. /// In this work, we propose the new combination Hofmeisterella falcata (Linden & Reichenbach f.) Nauray & A. Galn for use in the Colombian flora. This species differs from H. eumicroscopica Reichenbach f. by its flowers with wider sepals and petals and by its column and labellum with conspicuous bristles. Consequently, the genus Hofmeisterella Reichenbach f. consists of two species and is no longer a monospecific genus. Moreover, the lectotype of Telipogon falcatus Linden & Reichenbach f. is formally designated.
10.2307/3391534|New combinations are made for 10 taxa formerly included in the genus Porana s.l. in the account of the Convolvulaceae for the Flora Reipublicae Popularis Sinicae, which are now considered to belong in the genera Dinetus, Paranopsis, and Tridynamia, as follows: Dinetus decorus, D. dinetoides, D. duclouxii, D. grandiflorus, D. truncatus, Poranopsis discifera, P. sinensis, Tridynamia megalantha, T. sinensis var. sinensis, and T. sinensis var. delavayi. A key to the genera is provided, and 11 additional taxa formerly accepted in Porana are reduced to synonymy.
40300889|Nitidobulbon Ojeda, Carnevali & G. A. Romero, a new genus of the Maxillariinae (Orchidaceae), is described and illustrated. Its circumscription is supported by morphological, anatomical, and molecular evidence. The three species of Nitidobulbon are characterized by long flower peduncles, smooth, shiny pseudobulbs, and distinctive leaf anatomy. We present a taxonomic key to differentiate Nitidobulbon from related genera and also provide a key to the species within the genus. Three new combinations are established: N. cymbidioides (Dodson, J. T. Atwood & Carnevali) Ojeda & G. A. Romero, N. nasutum (Reichenbach f.) Ojeda & Carnevali, and N. proboscideum (Reichenbach f.) Ojeda & Carnevali. In synonymy to N. nasutum, the name Maxillaria oxysepala Schlechter is lectotypified /// Nitidobulbon Ojeda, Carnevali & G. A. Romero, un nuevo gnero de Maxillariinae (Orchidaceae), es descrito e ilustrado. Su circunscripcin se apoyada en evidencia morfolgica, anatomica y molecular. Las tres especies de Nitidobulbon se caracterizan por largos pediinculos florales, seudobulbos lisos y brillantes, y por una anatoma foliar distintiva. Tambin presentamos una clave para diferenciar Nitidobulbon de gneros emparentados, otra para las especies del genero y proponemos tres nuevas combinaciones: N cymbidioides (Dodson, J. T. Atwood & Carnevali) Ojeda & G. A. Romero, N. nasutum (Reichenbach f.) Ojeda & Carnevali y N proboscideum (Reichenbach f.) Ojeda & Carnevali. En la sinonimia a TV. nasutum, el nombre Maxillaria oxysepala Schlechter es lectotipificado.
3393498|Based on characters of the fruit, seed, and embryo, five new combinations in Gossia N. Snow & Guymer (Myrtaceae) are proposed for species occurring in New Guinea, Vanuatu, or the Solomon Islands. These species previously all had been placed in Myrtus L. or Austromyrtus Burret. A lectotype is selected for Gossia aneityensis. A key is provided for the Melanesian species of Gossia.
10.2307/3392038|Six new species, Neurolepis asymmetrica, N. fimbriligulata, N. laegaardii, N. nana, N. rigida, and N. villosa, are described and illustrated. Two subspecies are recognized within N. fimbriligulata: N. fimbriligulata subsp. peruviana and subsp. fimbriligulata. All taxa except for N. fimbriligulata subsp. peruviana are endemic to Ecuador; N. fimbriligulata subsp. peruviana is known only from Peru. These species were all formerly included within a broadly defined N. aristata (Munro) Pilger because of the presence of an awn on glumes I and II. A table comparing the six new taxa in Ecuador and N. aristata is provided.
40856284|Saussurea sugongii S. W. Liu & T. N. Ho and S. bartholomeivii S. W. Liu & T. N. Ho (Asteraceae) are described from the Qinghai-Xizang Plateau, China. The two new species are illustrated and compared with their closest relatives.
41811690|A new lycophyte species, Selaginella longistrobilina P. S. Wang, X. Y. Wang & Li Bing Zhang (Selaginellaceae), is described and illustrated from limestone hills in central Guizhou, China. Selaginella longistrobilina is most similar to S. prostrata H. S. Kung in the shape of the microphylls and in the arrangement, shape, and size of the sporophylls. However, the new species has longer strobili to 2.5 cm, and the sporophylls are often navicular adaxially, while S. prostrata has strobili only 3-4 mm, and the sporophylls are flattened adaxially. Selaginella longistrobilina is only known from central Guizhou, while S. prostrata is more widely distributed from Hunan, Sichuan to Yunnan in China. A new combination, S. prostrata (H. S. Kung) Li Bing Zhang, based on Lycopodioides prostrata H. S. Kung, is made and lectotypified herein.
10.2307/3392198|A new species of Passiflora from the Brazilian Atlantic rainforest in the state of So Paulo is described and illustrated. Passiflora loefgrenii is placed in subgenus Passiflora "series" Lobatae. It is vegetatively similar to P. amethystina Mikan and P. eichleriana Masters, the three species occurring sympatrically. Passiflora loefgrenii differs from these species primarily by flower character. At the type locality Passiflora loefgrenii is pollinated by hermit hummingbirds and large bees.
10.2307/3392179|Oreopanax anomalus, with narrow leaves unusually closely packed around the inflorescence and along the branchlets, is described in preparation for treatments in Flora Mesoamericana and A Manual to the Plants of Costa Rica.
20406240|In preparation for the forthcoming Flora of China, volume 3, the new combination Ctenitis dianguiensis (W. M. Chu & H. G. Zhou) S. Y. Dong based on Ataxipteris dianguiensis W. M. Chu & H. G. Zhou (Pteridophyta, Dryopteriaceae) is proposed. In addition, seven scientific names synonymize to C. subglandulosa (Hance) Ching, of which three are new: C. maolanensis P. S. Wang, C. membranifolia Ching & Chu H. Wang, and C. yunnanensis Ching & Chu H. Wang.
10.2307/3391890|A new species of Mouriri, M. laxiflora, from eastern Ecuador is described and illustrated, and a description of Mouriri crassisepala of the Dominican Republic is revised to include flowering material, with illustrations of the flowering parts.
40960829|Two new combinations in the Morinaceae are proposed for the Flora of China: Acanthocalyx nepalensis (D. Don) M. J. Cannon subsp. delavayi (Franch.) D. Y. Hong and Monna ludlowii (M. J. Cannon) D. Y. Hong. Lectotypes are designated for three names in the Valerianaceae, Valeriana daphniflora Hand.-Mazz., V. stenoptera Diels, and V. stenoptera var. cardaminea Hand.-Mazz.
10.2307/3393168|In the course of preparing a treatment of the genus Ocotea for the Flora Mesoamericana the following novelties were found and are published in this contribution: three new combinations, Ocotea amplifolia (Mez & Donnell Smith) van der Werff, O. parvula (Lundell) van der Werff, O. vanderwerffii (Kostermans) van der Werff; and nine new species, O. adela van der Werff, O. atlantica van der Werff, O. darcyi van der Werff, O. haberi van der Werff, O. jefensis van der Werff, O. klepperae van der Werff, O. macrantha van der Werff, O. oblongifolia van der Werff, and O. pullifolia van der Werff.
23259417|Hymenoxys perpygmaea W. C. Holmes, Singhurst & Mink (Asteraceae, Helenieae, Tetraneuridinae) is described as a new annual species. The species, which is ephemeral, is endemic to an alfisol prairie that contains mima mounds in Lamar County from northeastern Texas, U.S.A. It is similar to H. texana (J. M. Coult. & Rose) Cockerell, but is easily distinguished from that species by its diminutive rosette and fewer florets per capitulum.
40300939|Nomenclatural changes in Monardella Bentham (Lamiaceae) are introduced to more accurately circumscribe the specific and subspecific entities in the genus in California. Examination of herbarium specimens and digital images and analysis of biogeographical data from additional fieldwork has revealed morphological continuities and discontinuities. Four new species are described: M. boydii A. C. Sanders & Elvin, M. eremicola A. C. Sanders & Elvin, M. mojavensis Elvin & A. C. Sanders, and M. sinuata Elvin & A. C. Sanders. Five new subspecies are described: M. australis Abrams subsp. jokerstii Elvin & A. C. Sanders, M. hypoleuca A. Gray subsp. intermedia A. C. Sanders & Elvin, M. linoides A. Gray subsp. sierrae Elvin & A. C. Sanders, M. sinuata subsp. nigrescens Elvin & A. C. Sanders, and M. undulata Bentham subsp. arguelloensis Elvin & A. C. Sanders. Eight new combinations and/or rank changes are proposed: M. australis subsp. cinerea (Abrams) A. C. Sanders & Elvin, M. breweri A. Gray subsp. glandulifera (I. M. Johnston) Elvin, M. breweri subsp. lanceolata (A. Gray) A. C. Sanders & Elvin, M. breweri subsp. microcephala (A. Gray) Elvin & A. C. Sanders, M. linoides subsp. anemonoides (Greene) Elvin & A. C. Sanders, M. linoides subsp. erecta (Abrams) Elvin & A. C. Sanders, M. undulata subsp. crispa (Elmer) Elvin & A. C. Sanders, and M. venosa (Torrey) A. C. Sanders & Elvin. The description of one taxon is emended: M. undulata subsp. undulata. Lectotypes are designated for M. lanceolata A. Gray and M. sanguinea Greene. We address each of these changes within informal species groupings or alliances.
40300943|Se describe e ilustra a Brongniartia balsensis J. Jimnez Ramrez & K. Vega (Leguminosae, Papilionoideae), una especie nueva y endmica de la Depresin del Balsas. El nuevo taxn es similar a B. guerrerensis J. Jimnez Ramrez & J. L. Contreras, pero difiere de esta especie por tener un mayor nmero de fololos y por presentar pedicelos, bractolas, cliz, estandarte, alas y quilla de mayor tamao, adems de tener diferencias en la forma del estandarte, el color de la quilla (verde) y poseer una legumbre ligeramente alada. /// Brongniartia balsensis J. Jimnez Ramrez & K. Vega (Leguminosae, Papilionoideae), a new and endemic species from the Balsas Depression, is described and illustrated. This species is similar to B. guerrerensis J. Jimnez Ramrez & J. L. Contreras, but differs from it by having a greater number of leaflets and larger pedicels, bracteoles, calyx, standard, wings, and keel; there are also differences in the form of the standard, the color of the keel (green), and the possession of a lightly winged legume.
10.2307/3393086|Neocuatrecasia sandiensis H. Robinson and N. yungasensis H. Robinson from high elevations in Peru and Bolivia and N. tysonii H. Robinson from lower elevations in Bolivia are described as new. A key is furnished to the 12 species of the as yet inadequately collected genus.
3393393| A new species of Acanthaceae, Staurogyne rubescens, is described and illustrated. It is endemic to the Brazilian moist forests on the eastern range of mountains named "Serra do Mar" and is thus far known only from the states of Rio de Janeiro and So Paulo. Staurogyne rubescens can be distinguished by its lax terminal racemes, with bracts and bracteoles that are foliaceous, and the flowers that have a pink calyx and red corolla. Staurogyne itatiaiae (Wawra) Leonard also has red flowers and occurs in the highlands of the Atlantic rain forest. The distinguishing characters for these two species are presented in tabular format. /// A nova espcie Staurogyne rubescens (Acanthaceae), endmica da Serra do Mar nos Estados do Rio de Janeiro e de So Paulo,  descrita e ilustrada. Staurogyne rubescens  reconhecida pelo racemo terminal laxo, com brcteas e bractolas foliceas, e pelas flores com clice rosado e corola vermelha. Staurogyne itatiaiae (Wawra) Leonard tambm apresenta flores vermelhas e ocorre em altitudes elevadas na floresta Atlntica. As caractersticas distintivas entre as duas espcies esto apresentadas em tabela. 
10.2307/3391916|Work toward a revision of the Costa Rican Aquifoliaceae has revealed several nomenclatural problems and undescribed species. In this paper, Ilex skutchii Edwin ex Dudley & W. J. Hahn is validly published, Euonymus haberi Lundell is transferred to Ilex, and Ilex hemiepiphytica W. J. Hahn is newly described.
10.2307/3391835|Impatiens kulamavuensis, a distinct new species from India allied to I. parasitica Beddome, is described.
23259423|Astragalus mishodaghmontanus Ranjbar, Karamian & Nouri, a singular new species endemic to Iran, is described and illustrated. The new species belongs to subgenus Cercidothrix Bunge, section Incani DC., in Astragalus L. (Fabaceae). It is distributed in northwestern Iran in East Azerbaijan Province. Astragalus mishodaghmontanus is closely related to A. prilipkoanus Grossh. and A. hashtrudicus Ranjbar, but is distinguished by its glabrous pods with minute dark reddish dots. The IUCN conservation status of the new species is evaluated as Vulnerable (VU). Results from cytogenetic analysis indicate that A. mishodaghmontanus is a diploid species (2n = 2x = 16), with this chromosome number consistent with the proposed base number of x = 8 for the genus. Meiosis was observed as regular, with bivalent pairing and normal chromosome segregation.
10.2307/3391887|New names and new combinations are proposed for 15 species of Campanulaceae s.l. that have no legitimate name at that rank in the genus to which they should be assigned. These nomenclatural innovations include changes of genus and rank among the endemic Hawaiian Lobelioideae, the final installment in the incorporation of Pratia into Lobelia, and replacement of two illegitimate names in Campanuloideae.
10.2307/3391932|The new combination Eriochrysis filiformis (Hackel) Filgueiras is made based on Saccharum filiforme Hackel. A full description of the species is given based on recent collections.
3393418| A new species of Tripodanthus, T. belmirensis Roldn & Kuijt, is described and illustrated from Antioquia, Colombia. In contrast to the other two, more southern species of the genus, T. acutifolius (Ruiz & Pavn) Tieghem and T. flagellaris (Chamisso & Schlechtendal) Tieghem, it has bright red, much larger flowers. This is the first report of Tripodanthus from Colombia. 
27765226|New combinations in Habranthus Herb. (Amaryllidaceae) are made for four species that were previously treated as Zephyranthes Herb. (Z. arenicola Brandegee, Z. chichimeca T. M. Howard & S. Ogden, Z. conzattii Greenm., and Z. longifolia Hemsl.) and that are endemic to Mexico and the southwestern United States: H. arenicola (Brandegee) Flagg, G. Lom. Sm. & Meerow, H. chichimeca (T. M. Howard & S. Ogden) Flagg, G. Lom. Sm. & Meerow, H. conzattii (Greenm.) Flagg, G. Lom. Sm. & Meerow, and H. longifolius (Hemsl.) Flagg, G. Lom. Sm. & Meerow. The mature anthers, which are more or less horizontal and usually lunate or U-shaped, readily distinguish Habranthus from Zephyranthes, in which the mature anthers are vertical and relatively linear.
20406114|Kyllinga beninensis Samain, Reynders & Goetghebeur, a new species of Cyperaceae from the Borgou-Sud region of Bnin, is fully described and illustrated. This species can be recognized by the slender habit with swollen stem base, the tiny white head consisting of a single spike, and the spikelets with two glumes and one flower. Morphological differences with the species K. microbulbosa Lye from East Africa, to which K. beninensis bears a superficial resemblance, are discussed.
3393293|A new species, Wikstroemia fuminensis Y. D. Qi & Y. Z. Wang, is described and illustrated. The type specimen was collected from Mt. Maying of Fumin County, Yunnan Province. The new species is distinct in section Wikstroemia. Based on the glabrous pentamerous flower and head-like inflorescence, it is somewhat similar to W. fargesii (Lecomte) Domke and W. huidongensis C. Y. Chang, but differs in its inflorescence without peduncle, floral size (compared with W. huidongensis), glabrous ovary, and plant habit (compared with W. fargesii).
10.2307/3391956|The new combinations Chamaesyce carissoides (F. M. Bailey) D. C. Hassall ex P. I. Forster & R. J. F. Henderson, C. centralis (B. G. Thompson) P. I. Forster & R. J. F. Henderson, C. coghlanii (F. M. Bailey) D. C. Hassall ex P. I. Forster & R. J. F. Henderson, C. petala (Ewart & L. R. Kerr) P. I. Forster & R. J. F. Henderson, and C. psammogeton (P. S. Green) P. I. Forster & R. J. F. Henderson are made.
10.2307/3393582|Rhododendron maxiongense C.-Q. Zhang & D. Paterson (Ericaceae), from Yunnan, China, is described as new. It is similar to R. aberconwayi Cowan, which has elliptical thick and coriaceous leaves with recurved margins that are not undulate and have red punctate hair. The calyx of R. aberconwayi is sparsely hairy and glandular-ciliate; the corolla is open-campanulate, white to pale rose, with purple flecks; the pedicels are sparsely hairy and stipitate-glandular; and there is pilus on the base of the stamen. Rhododendron maxiongense differs from R. aberconwayi in its habitat as a dwarf shrub 0.6 to 0.9 m in height; leaves with undulated recurved margins without red punctate hair; inflorescence 8- to 13-flowered; corolla white, without flecks, apex pale green or pale rose, and lobe apex acute; stamens glabrous; calyx densely hairy; and pedicels densely hairy.
10.2307/3392980|The new genus Sinosophiopsis (Brassicaceae) is described, and its relationship to Sophiopsis is discussed. The new species Sinosophiopsis bartholomewii is described, and the new combination S. heishuiensis is proposed.
3393414| Burmeistera auriculata is described from a cloud forest remnant in Pichincha, Ecuador. Although allied to B. borjensis, this new species is distinguished from all known congeners by its auriculate calyx. /// Se describe Burmeistera auriculata de un remanente de bosque nublado en Pichincha, Ecuador. Aunque aliado a B. borjensis, esta especie nueva se distingue de las dems Burmeisteras conocidas por su cliz auriculado. 
10.2307/3391689|Daphnopsis folsomii, D. hammelii, and D. morii are described and illustrated. A key to the Panamanian species of Thymelaeaceae is provided.
10.2307/3391440|A new section and two new species of Tragia are described and illustrated. Tragia guayanensis from Amazonas, Venezuela, is unique in the genus in having filaments entirely fused into an elongate staminal column and 5-colpate pollen. The new section Monadelphae is described to accommodate this unusual species. Tragia tabulaemontana from French Guiana belongs to section Tragia and is characterized by oblanceolate or narrowly elliptic leaf blades that are narrowly cordate at the base, stamens that are highly dilated at their base, and long-stipitate glandular trichomes on petioles, inflorescence axes, and ovaries. A key to the five sections of Tragia in the New World and a key to the five species of Tragia in the Guayana Region are given.
10.2307/3393262|A new combination, Eleutherococcus humillimus (Y. S. Lian & X. L. Chen) Y. F. Deng, is made.
3393552|The name Atriplex argentea var. mohavensis is not correct when A. expansa is treated as a synonym. Publication of its basionym, A. expansa var. mohavensis, created the autonym, variety expansa, which has priority according to the International Code of Botanical Nomenclature (Art. 11.6). Thus, the combination A. argentea var. expansa is established to replace the name variety mohavensis used in volume 4 of the Flora of North America.
10.2307/3392247|The new combinations Psychotria nebulosa (Dwyer) C. M. Taylor and P. roseocrema (Dwyer) C. M. Taylor are made, and the following new species are described: Chiococca caputensis D. H. Lorence & C. M. Taylor, Manettia longipedicellata C. M. Taylor, Pentagonia lobata C. M. Taylor, Psychotria burgeri C. M. Taylor, Psychotria saltatrix C. M. Taylor, and Rudgea laevis C. M. Taylor.
23018493|Se describe e ilustra Parodiolyra aratitiyopensis J. R. Grande (Poaceae, Bambusoideae, Olyreae, Olyrineae) con material proveniente del Cerro Aratitiyope, en el sur del estado Amazonas de Venezuela. Esta nueva entidad se distingue de P. luetzelburgii (Pilg.) Soderstr. & Zuloaga, la especie ms afn, por presentar porte bajo, lminas linear-lanceoladas relativamente pequeas con la base redondeada o truncada y los mrgenes escabrosos (no fimbriados) a todo lo largo, inflorescencias relativamente menores y escabrosas slo en los nudos, glumas de las espiguillas femeninas con pelos extendidos de hasta 1 mm de largo hacia su parte media y espiguillas masculinas linear-fusiformes. Se presenta una clave para diferenciar a las seis especies que han sido asignadas al gnero Parodiolyra Soderstr. & Zuloaga, y se discuten sus posibles relaciones en base a caracteres morfolgicos. Parodiolyra aratitiyopensis J. R. Grande (Poaceae, Bambusoideae, Olyreae, Olyrineae) is described and illustrated with material from Cerro Aratitiyope, in the southern part of Amazonas, Venezuela. This new taxon can be distinguished from P. luetzelburgii (Pilg.) Soderstr. & Zuloaga, the most similar species, by its smaller habit, smaller and linear-lanceolate leaf blades with a rounded or truncate base and scabrous margins (vs. fimbriate margins), smaller inflorescences that are scabrous only at the nodes, female spikelets with hairs to 1 mm long through the middle of the glumes, and linear-fusiform male spikelets. A key to differentiate the six species of the genus Parodiolyra Soderstr. & Zuloaga as presently understood is included, and a discussion of their possible relationships based on morphological characters is also offered.
10.2307/3391703|Intensive collecting efforts during recent years have resulted in a large number of Lauraceae collections. Attempts at their identification have shown that many Lauraceae species are still undescribed. In this contribution ten species are described, and one may expect articles describing additional species at regular intervals.
20406320|Reynosia vivesiana Trejo (Rhamnaceae) is a previously unrecognized species of woody shrub. It is known from a dry forest in southwestern Puerto Rico, where it has been recorded only in a small area in the Gunica Forest Reserve. The plant was treated for more than seven decades as R. guama Urban, a related species from the Virgin Islands. The new R. vivesiana is separated from R. guama and the other two species of Reynosia Grisebach from Puerto Rico by its glabrous twigs, petioles, and stipels, and by its smaller fruits (ca. 9 mm long), among other features. The segregation of R. vivesiana from R. guama heightens the importance of both species from a conservation standpoint. Based on IUCN Red List criteria, R. vivesiana can be defined as Critically Endangered (CR) and consequently needs legal protection. /// Reynosia vivesiana Trejo (Rhamnaceae) es una especie de arbusto leoso previamente no catalogada. Es conocida en el bosque seco del suroeste de Puerto Rico, donde ha sido registrada en un rea pequea de la Reserva Forestal de Gunica. La planta fue tratada por ms de siete dcadas como R. guama Urban, una especie hermana de las Islas Vrgenes. La nueva R. vivesiana se distingue de R. guama y de las otras dos especies de Reynosia Grisebach de Puerto Rico por sus ramas jvenes, peciolos y estipelas glabras, as como por sus frutos ms pequeos de alrededor de 9 mm de largo, entre otras caractersticas. La segregacin de R. vivesiana respecto de R. guama realza la importancia de ambas especies desde el punto de vista de su conservacin. Con base en los criterios de la Lista Roja de la UICN R. vivesiana puede definirse como en peligro crtico y consecuentemente amerita proteccin legal.
20406111|A new species belonging to Croton L. sect. Eluteria Grisebach (Euphorbiaceae) is described from, and endemic to, the Yucatn Peninsula, Mexico. The species is named C. mayanus B. L. Len & Vester after the Mayan zone where it is mainly found. It is distinguished from C. niveus Jacquin, C. reflexifolius Kunth, and C. pseudoniveus Lundell, the species that it most closely resembles, by its combination of lepidote hairs on the fruit, smooth fruit surface, leaves glabrescent abaxially, and fruiting pedicels 8-13 mm long.
10.2307/3392270|Two combinations (Papaver macounii subsp. discolor and P. radicatum subsp. kluanensis) and a subspecies (P. nudicaule subsp. americanum) are published.
20406009|Morphological, chemical, cytological, and genetic data have indicated that kava (Piper methysticum G. Forster, Piperaceae), a vegetatively propagated plant found only in cultivation, was derived from the wild P. wichmannii C. DC. through artificial selection, and that the two taxa remain similar enough to be considered conspecific. A previous attempt to recognize P. wichmannii (which may also be conspecific with P. subbulatum K. Schumann & Lauterbach) as a variety of P. methysticum was not validly published owing to failure to cite the place of publication of the basionym. The combination Piper methysticum var. wichmannii (C. DC.) Lebot is herein validated.
10.2307/3392212|Two new leafless succulent species from Madagascar, Cynanchum folotsioides and Cynanchum hardyi, are described. Both species have been in cultivation for a considerable time. However, because of the general confusion in Malagasy Cynanchum, they have only now been recognized as new to science. Folotsia aculeata (Descoings) Descoings is transferred to Cynanchum.
10.2307/3393245|A new species of Eriogonum subg. Eucycla (Polygonaceae, Eriogonoideae), E. diatomaceum, is described from the Pine Nut Range, Lyon County, Nevada, U.S.A. It is an edaphic endemic species restricted to chalky, diatomaceous outcrops of the Coal Valley Formation in Churchill Narrows south of Fort Churchill State Park. The new species is outwardly similar to the Great Plains species E. pauciflorum (sect. Capitata), but is more closely related to E. ochrocephalum and its relatives. Eriogonum diatomaceum may be distinguished by its sheathing, elliptic, densely gray-tomentose leaves, erect scapose and white-tinged tomentose flowering stems, capitate inflorescences, glabrous and creamy white flowers, and glabrous achenes.
10.2307/3391747|Se describe e ilustra la especie nueva Posoqueria tarairensis C. M. Taylor & R. Corts-Balln (Rubiaceae), que abunda en los bosques de la Serrana de Taraira en el sureste colombiano. La especie posee hojas esclerfilas, una adaptacin tpica a los hbitats con suelos arenosos pobres en nutrientes, caractersticos de la regin Guayana. /// The new species Posoqueria tarairensis C. M. Taylor & R. Corts-Balln (Rubiaceae), common in the Serrana de Taraira, southeastern Colombia, is here described and illustrated. This species shows sclerophyllous adaptations to sandy soils that are poor in nutrients, a habitat that is typical in the Guayana region.
41811675|A new fern species, Dryopteris jiucaipingensis P. S. Wang, Q. Luo & Li Bing Zhang (Dryopteris Adans., sect. Hirtipedes Fraser-Jenk.; Dryopteridaceae), is described and illustrated from northwestern Guizhou, China. Dryopteris jiucaipingensis is most similar to D. lunanensis (Christ) C. Chr., but the former taxon has light brown rachis scales and occurs in alpine regions (at an elevation of 2580 m), while the latter has nearly black rachis scales and is found in montane and lowland areas (below 900 m).
20406224|Matelea atrostellata Rintz (Apocynaceae, Asclepiadoideae), a new species from Trans-Pecos, Texas, U.S.A., is described and illustrated. This species is very similar vegetatively to M. producta (Torrey) Woodson and M. texensis Correll, but is readily distinguished floristically by its rotate corolla and its nearly black corona. Both M. producta and M. texensis have campanulate corollas and very pale green or white coronas. This is the fifth species of Matelea Aublet to be recorded from Brewster County, Texas.
20406208|Presence of a well-developed perianth, ciliate at the mouth, and brown pigmentation necessitate establishment of a new liverwort genus, Castanoclobos J. J. Engel & Glenny. The only species, C. julaceus (Hatcher ex J. J. Engel) J. J. Engel & Glenny, which is endemic to New Zealand, is described and illustrated. The hepatic genus is retained in the Trichocoleaceae.
10.2307/3391960|A new endemic species of Polygonum is described from Scotts Valley, California. Differentiation from closely related taxa P. parryi and P. heterosepalum is presented.
10.2307/3392055|The little-known tropical South American genus Campsiandra (Caesalpiniaceae), distributed throughout the Amazon basin and to the north into the Orinoco basin of Venezuela and the Esequibo-Carantijn basins of Guyana and Surinam, has been under revisionary study by the author since 1982. Intensive field exploration, especially in the Venezuelan Guayana, and herbarium work, including examination of all type specimens and their duplicates, have enabled the definition of 14 new species: Campsiandra aymardii, C. casiquiarensis, C. chigo-montero, C. curaara, C. emonensis, C. ferruginea, C. gomez-alvareziana, C. guayanensis, C. implexicaulis, C. nutans, C. pasibensis, C. steyermarkiana, C. taphornii, and C. velutina; 3 varieties: C. gomez-alvareziana var. pusilliflora, C. macrocarpa var. alveolata, and C. macrocarpa var. grandifolia; 2 taxa at new statuses: C. angustifolia var. rosea and C. comosa var. surinamensis; and the reinstatement of C. laurifolia Bentham to species level. A lectotype is designated from the syntypes of C. comosa Bentham. Relationships among related species are discussed, and a key is provided to distinguish the known taxa. /// El gnero tropical suramericano poco conocido Campsiandra (Caesalpiniaceae), distribuido de manera inconstante y con cierto endemismo a travs de la cuenca amaznica, y hacia el norte en las cuencas del Orinoco de Venezuela y la Essequibo-Carantijn de Guyana y Surinam, ha sido objeto de estudios de revisin taxonmica por el autor desde 1982. La exploracin intensiva de campo, sobre todo en la Guayana venezolana y trabajo de herbario, al incluir todas las muestras tipos, durante este lapso ha permitido la definicin de 14 especies nuevas: Campsiandra aymardii, C. casiquiarensis, C. chigo-montero, C. curaara, C. emonensis, C. ferruginea, C. gomez-alvareziana, C. guayanensis, C. implexicaulis, C. nutans, C. pasibensis, C. steyermarkiana, C. taphornii, and C. velutina; 3 variedades: C. gomez-alvareziana var. pusilliflora, C. macrocarpa var. alveolata, and C. macrocarpa var. grandifolia; 2 estados nuevos: C. angustifolia var. rosea and C. comosa var. surinamensis; y la redefinicin a nivel de especie de C. laurifolia Bentham. Se designa el lecttipo de los sntipos de C. comosa Bentham. Se discuten las relaciones entre las especies relacionadas, y se presenta una clave descriptiva con fines de distinguir entre los taxa reconocidos.
10.2307/3391582|Kanaloa kahoolawensis Lorence & K. R. Wood, a new genus and species of Fabaceae subfamily Mimosoideae tribe Mimoseae, is described from the Hawaiian Island of Kaho'olawe. Based on morphology, wood anatomy, pollen structure, and chromosome number (2n = 28), Kanaloa is described as a monotypic genus of shrubs allied to genera belonging to the Leucaena and Dichrostachys groups of Mimoseae, from which it is differentiated by its tergeminate leaves, monospermous fruits inertly dehiscent along two sutures with the valves separating into inner and outer envelopes, and large cordiform seeds. The new genus is extremely rare and currently known from only two remaining plants on Kaho'olawe, a small, arid, and highly disturbed island. Fossil pollen attributable to Kanaloa has been found in core samples from lowland sites on O'ahu dating to the early Pleistocene.
10.2307/3391869|A new species of Dioclea sect. Pachylobium is described under the name of Dioclea grandistipula L. P. Queiroz. Although related to Dioclea rufescens Bentham, this new taxon is distinguished from other species of Dioclea by its cauliflorous pendulous inflorescences and large peltate stipules. It is endemic to the Atlantic forest of the State of So Paulo (southeastern Brazil) and was found during a recent survey for the Fanerogamic Flora of So Paulo at the Ecological Station Juria-Itatins.
10.2307/3391803|Se describe una nueva especie de Acaena, A. patagonica, de la zona patagnica de Chile y Argentina. Se publica adems una nueva seccin dentro del gnero la que incluye a esta especie. /// A new species of Acaena, A. patagonica, from Patagonian Chile and Argentina, is described. A new section of the genus is erected to include this species.
20406173|The confusing publication history of the name Mentzelia arborescens Urban & Gilg is clarified. The first publication of the name by I. Urban in 1892 referred only to a floral diagram and should not be considered as valid publication. Subsequently, the name was taken up by E. Gilg in 1893 in Die natrlichen Pflanzenfamilien and described in detail as the only representative of the newly described Mentzelia L. sect. Dendromentzelia Urban & Gilg. This should be considered as the valid publication of the name. The material seen by the authors, however, was not cited in publication until 1900. A search for the original material led to the discovery of two Karwinski specimens in the Munich herbarium (M), which bear handwritten labels by Urban and Gilg dated 1892, and are therefore suitable as lectotypes of the name. One of them is here formally designated as the lectotype.
27765202|A new species, Taxiphyllum townsendii Ochyra & Ireland (Hypnaceae, Musci), is described from Sri Lanka. The species was earlier known under the name Plagiothecium ceylonense Brotherus ex Dixon, but this name was not validly published and therefore a new name is needed. Taxiphyllum townsendii is similar in many ways to the common eastern North American species, T. deplanatum (Bruch & Schimper ex Sullivant) M. Fleischer, but differs by its larger, often oblong-lanceolate leaves that are abruptly or gradually short- or long-acuminate; much longer and narrower mid-leaf cells; short-rectangular, very broad basal leaf cells that form a distinct 1- to 2- seriate strip at the leaf insertion; and a prominent angular group of large quadrate to short-rectangular cells that extend up the margns by four to 10 cells. Taxiphyllum subretusum (Thwaites & Mitten) O'Shea is transferred to the genus Phyllodon Schimper as P. subretusus (Thwaites & Mitten) Ochyra & Ireland and the name is lectotypified. The validity of the name Enlodon isopterygioides (Dixon) Dixon is discussed and this name is considered to be validly published.
10.2307/3391487|As a result of work on the Poaceae for Flora Mesoamericana, the following four new species are described, illustrated, and compared with their closest putative relatives: Festuca talamancensis from the Cordillera de Talamanca in Costa Rica, F. herrerae from the Cordillera de Talamanca in Costa Rica and Panama, Sporobolus distichivaginatus from the Petn, Guatemala, and Eriochloa stevensii from Nicaragua, Venezuela, and Ecuador.
10.2307/3393025|A new species of Poaceae, Paspalum volcanensis, from southern Bolivia and northwestern Argentina, is described and illustrated. Its concavo-convex spikelets and upper lemma with conspicuous nerves are characters it shares with other species of subgenus Anachyris of Paspalum. A key to the species of the subgenus and comments on the delimitation of the new species are provided here.
3393540| The new combination Dolichopsis ligulata (Piper) A. Delgado is made from Phaseolus ligulatus Piper. This species is readily distinguished from Dolichopsis paraguariensis by its presenting the beak of the keel with a sigmoid curvature and by its western distribution in Bolivia and adjacent Paraguay. The new combination Macrotilium ecuadoriense (Hassler) L. Torres-Coln & A. Delgado is made from Phaseolus atropurpureus Sess & Mocio ex DC. var. ecuadoriense Hassler, with Phaseolus affinis newly synonymized. Red petals borne from a tubular calyx and presence of hairs in its wing petals readily distinguish Macroptilium ecuadoriense from the common and widespread Macroptilium atropurpureum with its deep maroon petals borne from a campanulate calyx and glabrous wing petals. 
10.2307/3391488|A new species, Podocarpus acuminatus, from southern Venezuela and nearby Brazil is described.
10.2307/3392225|Hedyotis macvaughii, a new species from Jalisco, Mexico, is described and compared with related taxa. It is a small wiry-stemmed perennial herb with filiform leaves, small funnelform flowers, and non-crateriform seeds.
20406155|Two new species of Sphaeradenia Harling (Cyclanthaceae), S. rostellata R. Eriksson from Costa Rica and S. marcescens R. Eriksson from Ecuador, are described and illustrated. Sphaeradenia rostellata is distinguished from the closely related S. praetermissa R. Eriksson and S. occidentalis R. Eriksson by the widely separated, uncinate stigmas. Sphaeradenia marcescens differs from the supposedly closely related S. pallida R. Eriksson by the persisting staminate flowers. /// Se describen e ilustran dos especies nuevas de Sphaeradenia Harling (Cyclanthaceae), S. rostellata R. Eriksson de Costa Rica y S. marcescens R. Eriksson de Ecuador. Sphaeradenia rostellata se distingue de las especies estrechamente relacionadas, S. praetermissa R. Eriksson y S. occidentalis R. Eriksson, por los estigmas muy separados y uncinados. Sphaeradenia marcescens se diferencia de la especie probablemente ms relacionada, S. pallida R. Eriksson, por las flores estaminadas persistentes.
20406087|Phyllanthus gradyi M. J. Silva & M. F. Sales from Brazil is described and illustrated, and its affinities are discussed. The new species is included in Phyllanthus L. subg. Botryanthus G. L. Webster sect. Elutanthos Croizat.
20406207|Gyrostipula obtusa Emanuelsson & Razafimandimbison, a new species of Rubiaceae (Naucleeae) from Madagascar, is described and illustrated. The new species differs from its congeners, G. comorensis J.-F. Leroy and G. foveolata (Capuron) J.-F. Leroy, by its obtuse leaves with more densely spaced lateral (secondary) veins and shorter petioles.
20406145|Orthophytum itambense Versieux & Leme is described and illustrated as a new species, with an endemic distribution restricted to Pico do Itamb State Park, Minas Gerais, Brazil. This new lithophytic taxon is closely related to O. supthutii E. Gross & Barthlott due to the shape and texture of leaves, floral bracts with recurved apex, sessile inflorescence, and by the long tubular corolla. The new species differs from its closest relatives by having leaves whitelepidote abaxially and adaxially, with trichomes forming white transverse cross-bands adaxially, nearly free sepals, white corolla, and shorter petal appendages (only to 4 mm vs. to 7 mm in O. supthutii).
10.2307/3391479|A second species is added to Neviusia (Rosaceae: Kerrieae), previously known as a single rare species in the southeastern United States. The new species, N. cliftonii from northern California, differs from N. alabamensis primarily in having petals, fewer stamens, and more broadly ovate, coarsely toothed leaves. The relict nature of Neviusia is further supported by newly recognized fossils from the Eocene of British Columbia, Canada.
20406113|Cyperus vandervekenii Reynders, Dhooge & Goetghebeur, from Rwanda, is fully described and illustrated. It can easily be distinguished from the related Cyperus graciliculmis Lye by its slender subquadrangular culms, single pseudolateral spikelets, and by the associated bract shorter than the spikelet.
10.2307/3393527| Notopleura (Bentham & Hooker f.) Bremekamp is a Neotropical genus of about 100 species that was formerly included in Psychotria, but differs from that in its low succulent habit, stipules with a single usually glandular interpetiolar appendage, and terminal or often pseudoaxillary inflorescences. Notopleura is widely distributed in wet habitats and includes two subgenera: subgenus Notopleura, which comprises terrestrial, usually unbranched plants and includes most of the species in the genus, and subgenus Viscogoga, which comprises epiphytic, usually branched plants. In subgenus Notopleura here the new combination N. madida (Standley) C. M. Taylor is made based on Psychotria madida Standley of Ecuador, and 21 new species are described and illustrated: N. amicitiae C. M. Taylor of eastern Costa Rica and western Panama, which has been confused with N. aggregata (Standley) C. M. Taylor; N. biloba C. M. Taylor of northwestern Colombia, which has been confused with N. macropodantha (Standley) C. M. Taylor; N. bryophila C. M. Taylor of montane Ecuador, which has been confused with N. marginata (Bentham) Bullock; N. capitata C. M. Taylor, found from Nicaragua to Panama and previously confused with N. aggregata; N. corniculata C. M. Taylor of western Colombia and Ecuador, which has been confused with N. anomothyrsa (K. Schumann & Donnell Smith) C. M. Taylor; N. corymbosa C. M. Taylor of Ecuador, which has been confused with N. micayensis (Standley) Bremekamp; N. costaricensis C. M. Taylor of montane Costa Rica, which has been confused with N. aggregata: N. hurtadoi C. M. Taylor of Ecuador, which has been confused with N. leucantha (K. Krause) C. M. Taylor; N. hypolaevis C. M. Taylor of Ecuador, which has been confused with N. uliginosa (Swartz) Bremekamp; N. longiflora C. M. Taylor of northwestern Colombia, which has been confused with N. macropodantha; N. montana C. M. Taylor of montane Costa Rica to Venezuela and Peru, which has been confused with N. macrophylla (Ruiz & Pavn) C. M. Taylor; N. multinervia C. M. Taylor of montane western Panama, which has been confused with N. aggregata: N. obtusa C. M. Taylor of Ecuador and northern Peru, which has been confused with N. aequatoriana C. M. Taylor; N. pacorana C. M. Taylor of central Panama, which has been confused with N. panamensis Dwyer) C. M. Taylor; N. parvifolia C. M. Taylor of western Panama, which has been confused with N. aggregata; N. pcnduliflora C. M. Taylor of western Panama, which has been confused with N. plagiantha (Standley) C. M. Taylor; N. sanblasensis C. M. Taylor of central Panama, which has also been confused with N. panamensis; N. spiciformis C. M. Taylor of western Colombia and Ecuador, which has been confused with N. longipedunculoides (C. M. Taylor) C. M. Taylor; N. torrana C. M. Taylor of western Panama, which has been confused with N. macropodantha: N. tubulistipula C. M. Taylor of Ecuador, which has again been confused with N. aggregata: and N. zarucchiana C. M. Taylor of montane Colombia, which has also been confused with N. macropodantha. Also in subgenus Notopleura, the correct names and their authorship are discussed for the species N. longipedunculoides (the formal new combination made here), N. longissima Bremekamp, and N. micayensis. In subgenus Viscagoga five new species are described and illustrated: N. bahiensis C. M. Taylor, which is similar to N. multiramosa (Steyermark) C. M. Taylor; N. cocleensis C. M. Taylor from western Panama, which has been confused with N. guadalupensis (DC.) C. M. Taylor; N. elegans C. M. Taylor from Costa Rica and western Panama, which has also been confused with N. guadalupensis: N. episcandens C. M. Taylor & Lorence from eastern Panama, which has been confused with N. maxonii (Standley) C. M. Taylor; and N. vargasiana C. M. Taylor from Ecuador, which again has been confused with N. guadalupensis. 
23259334|Four new species for the Begoniaceae, Begonia campanensis Burt-Utley & Utley and B. fortunensis Burt-Utley & Utley from Panama; B. matudae Burt-Utley & Utley from Chiapas, Mexico; and B. makrinii Burt-Utley & Utley from Oaxaca, Mexico, are described and illustrated. Begonia mucronistipula C. DC. from Panama is evaluated and synonymized with B. davidsoniae Standl. ex L. B. Sm. & B. G. Schub. and B. brevicyma C. DC. Begonia campanensis Burt-Utley & Utley y B. fortunensis Burt-Utley & Utley de Panam, as como B. matudae Burt-Utley & Utley de Chiapas y B. makrinii Burt-Utley & Utley de Oaxaca, Mxico se describen como nuevo. Se ilustran y evala B. mucronistipula C. DC. de Panam, lo que resulta en la sinonimia de B. davidsoniae Standl. ex L. B. Sm. & B. G. Schub. y B. brevicyma C. DC. con ella.
10.2307/3393111|Fourteen new species of Lauraceae, belonging to the genera Licaria, Ocotea, and Rhodostemonodaphne and all occurring in or near the Reserva Florestal Ducke, near Manaus, Brazil, are described. The new species are Licaria aureosericea van der Werff, L. hirsuta van der Werff, Ocotea cinerea van der Werff, O. delicata Vicentini, O. immersa van der Werff, O. ligulata van der Werff, O. minor Vicentini, O. nigrescens Vicentini, O. obliqua Vicentini, O. percurrens Vicentini, O. rhodophylla Vicentini, O. scabrella van der Werff, O. subterminalis van der Werff, and Rhodostemonodaphne recurva van der Werff. A key to the 37 Ocotea species of the Reserva Florestal Ducke is provided.
27765224|Tropidogyne pikei K. L. Chambers, Poinar & R. T. Buckley, representing a new genus and species, is described from an Early Cretaceous flower preserved in Burmese amber. Tropidogyne may occupy a stem or early crown position in the phylogeny of the rosid clade. Its floral morphology, while largely plesiomorphic, can be compared with the modern family Cunoniaceae. The flower of the fossil taxon is small, bisexual, epigynous, apetalous, with five regular sepals slightly connate at the base, 10 stamens, the one preserved anther having two thecae that dehisce by longitudinal slits, an ovary of three carpels surmounted by a conspicuous disc, three short, acute styles, and a 10-ribbed inferior ovary. At the summit of each rib of the Tropidogyne ovary is a small, darkly stained patch of tissue, interpreted here as a secretory gland.
20406216|Descriptions and illustrations of three new Brazilian species of the genus Rauvolfia L. (Apocynaceae, Rauvolfioideae), R. capixabae I. Koch & Kinoshita-Gouva, R. gracilis I. Koch & Kinoshita-Gouva, and R. pruinosifolia I. Koch & Kinoshita-Gouva, are presented. Rauvolfia blanchetii A. DC., R. mollis S. Moore, and R. divergens Markgraf are newly synonymized under R. ligustrina Willdenow, R. pernambucensis Emygdio under R. moricandii A. DC., and R. sessilifolia S. Moore under R. weddelliana Mller Argoviensis. Lectotypes for R. blanchetii and R. ternifolia Kunth are designated; furthermore, comments to clarify the complicated typification of R. ligustrina and R. ternifolia are presented. /// So apresentadas descries e ilustraes de trs novas espcies brasileiras do gnero Rauvolfia L. (Apocynaceae, Rauvolfioideae), R. capixabae I. Koch & Kinoshita-Gouva, R. gracilis I. Koch & Kinoshita-Gouva e R. pruinosifolia I. Koch & Kinoshita-Gouva. Rauvolfia blanchetii A. DC., R. mollis S. Moore e R. divergens Markgraf so sinonimizadas  R. ligustrina Willdenow, R. pernambucensis Emygdio  R. moricandii A. DC., e R. sessilifolia S. Moore  R. weddelliana Mller Argoviensis. So designados lecttipos para R. blanchetii e R. ternifolia Kunth e so apresentados comentrios para o esclarecimento da complexa tipificao de R. ligustrina e R. ternifolia.
20406160|Three new species of Physaria (Nuttall) A. Gray from the western United States are described and illustrated: P. eriocarpa Grady & O'Kane, P. pachyphylla O'Kane & Grady, and P. pycnantha Grady & O'Kane. Physaria curvipes (A. Nelson) Grady & O'Kane and P. spatulata (Rydberg) Grady & O'Kane are proposed as new combinations in the genus and are provided with updated descriptions. Taxonomic changes are the product of a molecular study of these species and others formerly allied with P. reediana O'Kane & Al-Shehbaz (= Lesquerella alpina (Nuttall) Watson). A key is provided that includes the species described here as well as other central Rocky Mountain species traditionally affiliated with P. reediana.
3393298|Sarocalamus Stapleton, a new genus distributed from the eastern Himalayas to the Sichuan Province of China, is described. Among all Asian bamboo genera it shares the greatest number of morphological characters with the North American genus Arundinaria Michaux. However, DNA sequencing has suggested that other genera are probably more closely related to Arundinaria, while Sarocalamus appears instead to be a possible sister group to Phyllostachys Siebold & Zuccarini, a genus with some similarities in branching but very different flowers. Biogeographical implications are discussed, and the new combinations Sarocalamus racemosus (Munro) Stapleton, S. faberi (Rendle) Stapleton, and S. spanostachyus (T. P. Yi) Stapleton are made.
20406112|Solanum scabrum Miller has been reported almost exclusively from cultivation as a vegetable for human consumption. However, molecular and morphological data indicate that a wild taxon exists in Uganda. This wild taxon was previously identified as the poisonous S. nigrum L., but local people use its leaves as food. This taxon is here described as a new subspecies, S. scabrum Miller subsp. laevis Olet. Morphological descriptions and a key to separate the two subspecies of S. scabrum are given.
10.2307/3392170|In the course of preparing a treatment of the Ocotea helicterifolia group for Flora Mesoamericana, the existing treatment was found to be outdated. A review of the group is here presented and includes the description of the following new species: O. congregata van der Werff, O. corrugata van der Werff, O. gordonii van der Werff, and O. patula van der Werff, as well as the following new combinations: O. betazensis (Mez) van der Werff, O. bourgeauviana (Mez) van der Werff, O. purpurea (Mez) van der Werff, and O. tonii (Lundell) van der Werff. A key to the species of the group is presented, new synonymy is given, and the specimens studied are listed.
10.2307/3393185|Three new Jaltomata species from the department of Ancash, Peru, are described and illustrated. The three species are distinguished from others in the genus by features of the flowers, hairs, and leaves. Fruits of Jaltomata cajacayensis S. Leiva & Mione are gathered for consumption. Jaltomata lomana Mione & S. Leiva is known only from a single fog-dependent plant community, a lomas formation. Jaltomata yungayensis Mione & S. Leiva is widely distributed at high elevations.
20406302|Six new species and two varieties of Cuphea P. Browne (Lythraceae) are described from Brazilian collections. Cuphea lucens T. B. Cavalcanti & S. A. Graham from Minas Gerais is described in sect. Melvilla Koehne subsect. Pachycalyx Koehne where it is similar to C. cylindracea S. A. Graham but lacks the prominently descending floral tube spur of that species. Cuphea alatosperma T. B. Cavalcanti & S. A. Graham from the Amazon, with inflated-winged seeds, and C. anamariae T. B. Cavalcanti & S. A. Graham, a novelty from white sands in Minas Gerais, belong to sect. Euandra Koehne subsections Platypterus Koehne and Hilariella Koehne, respectively. Cuphea exilis T. B. Cavalcanti & S. A. Graham, C. filiformis T. B. Cavalcanti & S. A. Graham, and C. rupestris T. B. Cavalcanti & S. A. Graham, new species with linear-lanceolate leaves and a woody xylopodium (not confirmed in C. exilis), are members of sect. Euandra subsect. Oidemation Koehne, as are the newly recognized variety C. spermacoce A. St.-Hilaire var. arguta T. B. Cavalcanti & S. A. Graham and the new combination C. spermacoce var. erectifolia (Koehne) T. B. Cavalcanti & S. A. Graham. Lectotypes are selected for C. erectifolia Koehne and two forms of the species. A key to the varieties of C. spermacoce is provided. /// Seis novas espcies e duas novas variedades de Cuphea P. Browne (Lythraceae) so descritas a partir de colees brasileiras. Cuphea lucens T. B. Cavalcanti & S. A. Graham, de Minas Gerais,  descrita para a seo Melvilla Koehne subseo Pachycalyx Koehne onde  semelhante  C. cylindracea S. A. Graham, mas difere por no possuir o clcar proeminentemente descendente como naquela espcie. Cuphea alatosperma T. B. Cavalcanti & S. A. Graham, da Amaznia, com sementes de ala inflada e C. anamariae T. B. Cavalcanti & S. A. Graham, uma novidade das serras de solos de areia branca de MinasGerais, pertencente  seo Euandra Koehne subseo Platypterus Koehne e Hilariella Koehne, respectivamente. Cuphea exilis T. B. Cavalcanti & S. A. Graham, C. filiformis T. B. Cavalcanti & S. A. Graham e C. rupestris T. B. Cavalcanti & S. A. Graham, novas espcies com folhas linear-lanceoladas e xilopdio (no confirmado em C. exilis), so membros da seo Euandra subseo Oidemation Koehne, assim como a nova variedade reconhecida C. spermacoce A. St.-Hilaire var. arguta T. B. Cavalcanti & S. A. Graham e a nova combinao C. spermacoce var. erectifolia (Koehne) T. B. Cavalcanti & S. A. Graham. Lecttipos so selecionados para C. erectifolia Koehne e duas formas das espcies. Uma chave para as variedades de C. spermacoce  fornecida.
23018460|A new species of Euphorbiaceae from the Brazilian Amazon, Pera eiteniorum Bigio & Secco, is described and illustrated. This species is closely related to P. tomentosa (Benth.) Mll. Arg., P. membranacea Leal, and P. heteranthera (Schrank) I. M. Johnst., but can be distinguished from them by the following characteristics: the abaxial leaf surface with stellate trichomes and the blade midvein with stellate-lepidote trichomes, staminate flowers with the calyx glabrous or rarely with sparse, sericeous trichomes, and a well-developed rudimentary pistillate flower with a lageniform (flask-shaped) ovary, triangular stigma, and narrowly oblanceolate staminode. Affinities of the new taxon are discussed, and a key to morphologically similar species from Amazonian Brazil is presented. Uma nova espcie de Euphorbiaceae da Amaznia brasileira, Pera eiteniorum Bigio & Secco,  descrita e ilustrada. Esta espcie  superficialmente semelhante a P. tomentosa (Benth.) Mll. Arg., P. membranacea Leal e P. heteranthera (Schrank) I. M. Johnst., mas separa-se por ser a nica deste grupo a apresentar as seguintes caractersticas: face abaxial das folhas com tricomas estrelados e estrelados lepidotos na nervura principal, clice das flores estaminadas glabros ou raramente com tricomas serceos esparsos e rudimento de flores pistiladas bem desenvolvido; flores pistiladas com ovrio lageniforme, estigma triangular e estamindio estreitamente oblanceolado. Discusso sobre as afinidades do novo txon, bem como uma chave para separao das espcies morfologicamente relacionadas da Amaznia brasileira,  apresentada.
41811670|A new fern species, Polystichum oblanceolatum H. He & Li Bing Zhang (Dryopteridaceae), is described and illustrated from a karst cave in Guangxi, southern China. As a member of Polystichum Roth sect. Haplopolystichum Tagawa, P. oblanceolatum is morphologically most similar to P. dielsii Christ and P. liui Ching, but is distinguishable from the latter two by its often oblanceolate lamina with acute apex, its repand or broadly dentate pinnae with non-spinulose toothed distal margins, and the less developed, more or less truncate, but not sharply acute, basal acroscopic auricles of the pinnae. The new taxon appears to be endemic to a single karst cave in Tian'e County in northern Guangxi and is considered to be Critically Endangered (CR), based on IUCN Red List criteria. A key is provided to facilitate the identification of P. oblanceolatum and morphologically similar species.
40300950|For the Flora of North America Project, five species are transferred to Rosulabryum J. R. Spence (Bryaceae). Two weedy European species, Bryum bornholmense Winkelmann & R. Ruthe and B. rubens Mitten, are transferred based on morphology and recent molecular results, as R. bornholmense (Winkelmann & R. Ruthe) J. R. Spence and R. rubens (Mitten) J. R. Spence. The western North American endemics B. erythroloma (Kindberg) Syed and B. gemmascens Kindberg are also transferred to Rosulabryum, as R. erythroloma (Kindberg) J. R. Spence and R. gemmascens (Kindberg) J. R. Spence. Finally, the rare eastern North American Brachymenium andersonii H. A. Crum is transferred to Rosulabryum as R. andersonii (H. A. Crum) J. R. Spence. In all, 13 species of Rosulabryum are found in North America north of Mexico. A key to the species is included.
3393295| A new species from central Andean Bolivia, Ovidia sericea Antezana & Z. S. Rogers (Thymelaeaceae, Thymelaeoideae), is described and illustrated. This distinctive species differs from the other South American species in the genus, O. andina (Poeppig & Endlicher) Meisner and O. pillopillo (Gay) Meisner, by a number of vegetative and floral features, the most obvious being the dense sericeous indument on both surfaces of the leaf blades and the abaxial surface of the hypanthia. The description of O. sericea substantially extends the range of Ovidia Meisner, which was formerly thought to be endemic to central Chile and the adjacent Andean slopes of Argentina. A key to the species of Ovidia as circumscribed by Nevling is also provided. /// Se presenta la descripcin e ilustracin de una nueva especie de los Andes centrales de Bolivia, Ovidia sericea Antezana & Z. S. Rogers (Thymelaeaceae: Thymelaeoideae). Esta especie se diferencia de las otras dos especies O. andina (Poeppig & Endlicher) Meisner and O. pillopillo (Gay) Meisner, por varias caractersticas vegetativas y florales, entre estas la mas obvia es el indumento serceo en ambas caras de las hojas y en cara abaxial del hipantio. Con la descripcin de O. sericea se extiende ampliamente la distribucin de Ovidia Meisner, la cual se pensaba que era endmica de Chile central y la regin adyacente en los andes argentinos. Se presenta tambin una clave de las especies de Ovidia, en el sentido del gnero como lo defini Nevling. 
10.2307/3392229|Studies of the Kazakh endemic Lappula coronifera (M. Popov) subsp. zaissanica Aralbaev show that it is a distinct species. The new combination Lappula zaissanica (Aralbaev) Aralbaev is proposed.
10.2307/3392141|Four new combinations are made for Packera: P. eurycephala var. lewisrosei (J. T. Howell) Bain, P. contermina (Greenman) Bain, P. moresbiensis (Calder & Taylor) Bain, and P. ovina (Greene) Bain. Packera ovina is lectotypfied. The latter is necessary because the holotype is a mixed collection whose disposition affects the naming of Packera contermina.
20406265|The new species Cardamine hupingshanensis K. M. Liu, L. B. Chen, H. F. Bai & L. H. Liu is described and illustrated from Hupingshan National Nature Reserve in northwestern Hunan, China. The new species is distinctive and assigned to section Cardamine L. according to its rhizomes, petioles sometimes with lateral leaflets, flowers, and coiled valves during dehiscence. The habitat is aquatic or subaquatic. Based on the leaf shape, it is similar to C. circaeoides Hooker f. & Thomson but is distinguished by its stout rhizomes and broadly obovate petals. The chromosome number is 2n = 24.
20406337|Allium tel-avivense Eig (Liliaceae), endemic to Israel, is lectotypified.
10.2307/3391514|Romanschulzia mexicana is described as new and illustrated. It is readily distinguished from all other 12 species of Romanschulzia by its fruiting pedicels and gynophores that are both very long and rather slender.
10.2307/3393184|Tournefortia gigantifolia, an unusual understory shrub, is described as new from wet forests in Ecuador and Colombia. It is distinct in its monocaulous or sparsely branched habit with large punctate leaves clustered near the stem apices. Its free anthers and unlobed fruits indicate clearly that it is a member of Tournefortia sect. Tournefortia, but its relationships with other species are not evident. /// Tournefortia gigantifolia, un arbusto excepcional de sotobosque, se describe como nueva especie. Habita en bosques hmedos en Ecuador y Colombia. Es distintivo en su forma de crecimiento monocaule o con pocas ramas, con hojas grandes que presentan abundantes puntos en el haz; las hojas estan agrupadas cerca de los pices de los tallos. Aunque esta nueva especie claramente pertenece al gnero Tournefortia, seccin Tournefortia, sur parentesco con las otras especies de la seccin no est claro.
23259430|Carex orestera Zika (Cyperaceae) is described from western North America and is endemic to five counties in central and southern California in the Sierra Nevada range and the adjacent White Mountains. The taxon is separable from C. albonigra Mack. in its more lanceolate to oblong scales with a conspicuous pale midvein and relatively narrower perigynia. The new species is assigned to Carex L. sect. Racemosae G. Don, and a sectional key is provided for these sedges in California.
10.2307/3391423|Three new species of Manettia (Rubiaceae) are described from Panama: M. arboricola, M. microphylla, and M. longicalycina.
10.2307/3392030|Morphological, cytological, and molecular data support the reduction of Boleum Desvaux and Euzomodendron Cosson to synonymy of Vella L. The new combination Vella bourgaeana is proposed. A key to the species of Vella is presented.
10.2307/3391853|Eight new species and two new varieties from five Brazilian states are described and illustrated: Diplusodon argyrophyllus and D. ulei var. ciliatus, from Bahia; D. alatus, D. ciliatiflorus, D. oblongus var. angustifolius, D. plumbeus, and D. pygmaeus from Gois; D. aggregatifolius, from Minas Gerais; D. trigintus, from Tocantins; and D. mattogrossensis, from Mato Grosso.
10.2307/3393532|Packera contermina is the correct name for the taxon erroneously published as Packera lyallii.
10.2307/3393371| The following represent new specific taxa in the Orchidaceae from Venezuela: Epidendrum cesar-fernandezii Carnevali & I. Ramrez, E. reclinatum Carnevali & I. Ramrez, Pleurothallis loreae Carnevali & I. Ramrez, P. escalerensis Carnevali & C. A. Luer, and P. stellata I. Ramrez & Carnevali. A new nothospecies, Epidendrum Xgransabanensis Carnevali & I. Ramrez, is proposed as the product of the introgression between Epidendrum ibaguense HBK and E. secundum Jacquin. A new subspecies, Liparis nervosa subsp. granitica Carnevali & I. Ramrez, is proposed to accommodate populations of Liparis nervosa (Thunberg) Lindley restricted to granitic outcrops in the northwestern Guayana in Venezuela. Descriptions, illustrations, and discussions of affinities are provided for the newly proposed taxa. 
20406341|Berberis chunanensis T. S. Ying (Berberidaceae) was not validly published in 1999 because no type was designated. The name Berberis chunanensis T. S. Ying is validly established here.
10.2307/3393064|The fossil organ genus Palaeoaster (Papaveraceae), from the Cretaceous Western Interior of North America, is revised to contain a single species, the new combination P. porosa. The type status is clarified and lectotypes are selected for the basionym Eriocaulon? porosum (Eriocaulaceae) and synonyms P. inquirenda, P? similis, and Sterculiocarpus coloradensis (Sterculiaceae). This revision reflects an informal circumscription of Palaeoaster in use since the late 1930s, and is the first of several papers on this genus.
10.2307/3393023|Durante la preparacin del tratamiento de las Leguminosas para el el proyecto Manual de las Plantas de Costa Rica nuevas especies han sido descubiertas en los gneros Dalbergia y Pterocarpus, y se proponen nuevas combinaciones en los gneros Desmodium y Dioclea. /// During the preparation of the treatment of the Legumes for the Manual de las Plantas de Costa Rica project, new species in the genera Dalbergia and Pterocarpus were discovered; proposals for new combinations in the genera Desmodium and Dioclea were also deemed necessary.
10.2307/3391406|Monochaetum amistadense, a new species from the pramo of Costa Rica, is described, illustrated, and compared to its closest presumed relative, M. compactum. The distributional range of M. trichophyllum is extended from Panama to Costa Rica, and a diagnostic key is provided for the 10 species of Monochaetum now known from Costa Rica.
10.2307/3392070|Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie de Gamochaeta de los Andes de Per y Bolivia. Gamochaeta lulioana es similar a G. longipedicellata por su hbito cespitoso y los captulos solitarios, pero se diferencia de sta por los captulos ssiles. /// A new Andean species, Gamochaeta lulioana, is described and illustrated. This species is closely related to G. longipedicellata, which occurs in Argentina. Both species are similar in their caespitose habit and solitary capitula, but only G. lulioana has sessile capitula.
10.2307/3393128|During preparation of the account of Cotoneaster Medikus for the Flora of China, volume 9, it was found that some taxa required the following new combinations, namely Cotoneaster glaucophyllus Franchet var. serotinus (Hutchinson) L. T. Lu & A. R. Brach, C. bullatus Bois var. floribundus (Stapf) L. T. Lu & A. R. Brach, and C. gracilis Rehder & E. H. Wilson var. difficilis (G. Klotz) L. T. Lu.
10.2307/3393030|The combinations Doronicum carpetanum subsp. diazii (C. Prez Morales & A. Penas Merino) lvarez Fernndez, Doronicum carpetanum subsp. kuepferi (R. Chacn Aumente) lvarez Fernndez, Doronicum kamaonense (DC.) lvarez Fernndez, and Doronicum macrophyllum F. E. L. Fischer subsp. sparsipilosum (J. R. Edmondson) lvarez Fernndez are proposed. Doronicum kamaonense is lectotypified.
10.2307/3393058|The new species Memecylon tirunelvelicum (Melastomataceae), collected from the Tirunelveli Hills of Tamil Nadu in Peninsular India, is described and illustrated. It is distinguished by the nerves on its leaves, a long and quadrangular peduncle, larger flowers with deeper calyx lobing but faint disc ray, and dense papillae on the ovary. It is closely related to Memecylon grande Retzius by its leaf shape and texture, terete branchlets, inflorescence position, and ovary shape.
20406350|A new species of Asplenium L. (Aspleniaceae) is described and illustrated. Asplenium badinii Sylvestre & P. G. Windisch is an endemic species of the isolated forest clumps (capoes) from Itacolomi State Park, from Minas Gerais, Brazil, in areas dominated by open rocky sites (campos rupestres). This environment is known for its high level of generic and specific endemism. The new species belongs to the A. salicifolium L. species group, with apical pinnae similar to lateral ones, smooth blades, and spores with echinate perispore. It is related to A. juglandifolium Lamark and A. bradeanum Handro. Diagnostic characters for A. badinii are the long basal segment on the acroscopic side of the proximal pinnae as well as the linear to linearlanceolate scales on the stem. /// Uma nova espcie de Asplenium L.  descrita e ilustrada. Asplenium badinii Sylvestre & P. G. Windisch  uma espcie endmica dos capes de mata do Parque Estadual do Itacolomi, no Estado de Minas Gerais, Brasil, em rea dominada por campos rupestres. Este ambiente  reconhecido pela ocorrncia de um grande nmero de espcies e gneros endmicos. Esta espcie pertence ao grupo de A. salicifolium L. Possui pina apical conforme, lmina glabra e esporos com superfcie espinhosa.  afim de A. juglandifolium Lamark e A. bradeanum Handro. Os caracteres diagnsticos so o longo segmento presente no lado acroscpico da poro proximal das pinas basais e as escamas do caule linear-lanceoladas.
10.2307/3391883|A new species in the genus Zamia (Zamiaceae), Z. gentryi, from northwestern Ecuador is described. This arborescent species appears to be most closely allied to Z. roezlii Linden, with which it grows sympatrically along the margins of the populations. Zamia gentryi is occasionally found growing as an epiphyte. Character states that distinguish the two species are presented.
27765215|A new species from Guangxi Province, Impatiens cornutisepala S. X. Yu, Y. L. Chen & H. N. Qin, is described for the Balsaminaceae in China. It is similar to I. dicentra Franchet ex Hooker f. in the 1flowered peduncle and the lobes of the lateral united petals that are terminated by a long filamentous bristle. However, the new species differs from the latter in its narrowly elliptic to oblanceolate leaf blade, the smaller lateral sepals with entire margins and a prominent green cornute appendage dorsally, the spur of the lower sepal that is entire at the tip, and its differing leaf epidermis micromorphology. The micromorphology of seeds and pollen under SEM is presented.
43289106|Ulmus kunmingensis W. C. Cheng (Ulmaceae), originally described in 1963, was an invalidly published name, because two collections, one flowering and one fruiting, were designated as types. The name is validated here with the designation of the fruiting collection W. C. Cheng 11002 (NF) as the holotype.
10.2307/3391919|Cissus acreensis, C. amapaensis, C. apendiculata, C. araguainensis, and C. paraensis, new species of Vitaceae, are described from northern Brazil. These species are distinct in many characters, mainly trichomes, leaf dimorphism, flower disc, fruits, and seeds. In addition to descriptions and illustrations, comments on probable relationships and distributions are presented.
10.2307/3393037|New combinations are made to transfer 13 species from Talinum Adanson to Phemeranthus Rafinesque, which will be recognized separately in the treatment of Portulacaceae being prepared for the Flora of North America (FNA). The new combinations are: Phemeranthus aurantiacus (Engelmann) Kiger, P. brevicaulis (S. Watson) Kiger, P. calcaricus (S. Ware) Kiger, P. calycinus (Engelmann) Kiger, P. humilis (Greene) Kiger, P. longipes (Wooton & Standley) Kiger, P. marginatus (Greene) Kiger, P. mengesii (W. Wolf) Kiger, P. parviflorus (Nuttall) Kiger, P. rugospermus (Holzinger) Kiger, P. sediformis (von Poellnitz) Kiger, P. thomsonii (N. D. Atwood & S. L. Welsh) Kiger, and P. validulus (Greene) Kiger.
10.2307/3393131|Isoetes toximontana is only the second quillwort reported from the Northern Cape region in South Africa. It occurs in shallow water on the Gifberg. Megaspores are uniformly tuberculate on the proximal surface; their distal surfaces may have occasional rugi along with bullae. They are olive green when dry. Microspores are brown and aculeate. Preliminary field studies suggest that an unexpected diversity of quillworts is found in this region.
10.2307/3392999|Setaria inopinata Toolin, sp. nov., is described and illustrated, and a key is provided to separate it from similar species in the genus. Apparently, this caespitose perennial, which resembles S. tenax, occurs only in northwestern Argentina.
23259338|Pterogonium Sw. (Leucodontaceae), a long-used, illegitimate name for what is probably a unispecific genus of mosses, is replaced with an anagram, Nogopterium Crosby & W. R. Buck. The needed new combinations, N. gracile (Hedw.) Crosby & W. R. Buck and N. beyrichianum (Hampe) Crosby & W. R. Buck, are made.
41811678|Field studies and examination of herbarium specimens have led to a taxonomic revision of the Casearia ulmifolia Vahl ex Vent, complex (Salicaceae). A new species circumscription is presented for C. ulmifolia, C. cotticensis Uittien is reestablished, and one new species, C. murceana R. Marquete & Mansano, is described from Par, Brazil. Morphological descriptions, a taxonomic key, geographical distributions, diagnostic characteristics of the species, and illustrations are provided.
10.2307/3393225|New combinations for four South and Central American species formerly assigned to Loasa are proposed: Nasa lindeniana (Urban & Gilg) Weigend and Nasa venezuelensis (Steyermark) Weigend from Venezuela, Nasa speciosa (Donnell Smith) Weigend from Costa Rica and Panama, and Nasa herzogii (Urban & Gilg) Weigend from Bolivia.
10.2307/3393107|Leptochloa simoniana N. Snow is newly described from Papua New Guinea and Boigu Island in the Torres Strait, Queensland, Australia. A key and tabular diagnosis are provided for L. simoniana and morphologically similar congeneric species. It most resembles the sub-Saharan species L. coerulescens. Its chief diagnostic features are the long-sericeous to arachnose hairs at the apex of the callus and the densely scabrous adaxial and abaxial leaf surfaces. The species is currently known from only three sites and is thus considered vulnerable. /// Se describe Leptochloa simoniana N. Snow, una especie nueva de Papa Nueva Guinea y de la Isla Boigu en el Estrecho de Torres, Queensland, Australia. Se proporcionan una clave y una diagnosis tabular para L. simoniana y especies congenricas morfolgicamente similares. Es muy parecida a L. coerulescens, una especie del sub-Sahara. Se distingue principalmente por los tricomas largos a aracnoideos en la base de la lema. En actualidad la especie se conoce slo de tres lugares y por lo tanto se la considera vulnerable.
3393441| Passiflora inca, a new species from Peru and Bolivia, from the Vilcabamba-Amborr corridor, is described. An illustration, photographs of the flower, and SEM photos of the indument and leaf details are presented. The new species differs from the other species of the Passiflora lobbii group in usually multiflowered inflorescences and diffuse laminar nectaries (only known from P. lobbii subsp. ayacuchoensis within the species group). /// Se describe Passiflora inca una especie nueva del corredor Vilcabamba-Amborr de Per y Bolivia. Se presenta una ilustracin y fotografas de la flor y fotos de microscopio electrnico de barrido del indumento y de detalles de las hojas. La especie nueva difiere de las dems especies del grupo Passiflora lobbii en tener inflorescencias multifloras y nectarios laminares difusos (solamente conocidos en P. lobbii subsp. ayacuchoensis en el grupo). 
10.2307/3391802|Peritassa hatschbachii, a new species of Hippocrateaceae from southern Brazil, is described and illustrated. In addition, comments on two other confused species, P. calypsoides and P. mexiae, and a key for identification of Peritassa species from southern Brazil are provided. A lectotype is proposed for P. calypsoides, and complete synonymy is presented.
10.2307/3393173|A new species of the genus Carica, found in forests in southeast Ecuador, is described. Carica palandensis Badillo, Van den Eynden & Van Damme is clearly distinguished from all other Carica species by its always compound leaves with 5-to 9-petiolulate leaflets. /// Se describe una nueva especie del gnero Carica encontrada en los bosques del sureste del Ecuador. Carica palandensis Badillo, Van den Eynden & Van Damme se distingue claramente de las dems especies de Carica por sus hojas siempre compuestas con 5 a 9 fololos petiolulados.
10.2307/3392003|The genus Teesdaliopsis is reduced to synonymy of Teesdalia. The new combination Teesdalia conferta is proposed. A key to the three species of Teesdalia is provided.
10.2307/3392208|A species previously identified as Toxocarpus caudiclavus Choux (Asclepiadaceae, Secamoneae) is outside the morphologic and phylogenetic bounds of this genus. Instead, it is more closely related to the Malagasy endemic genus Pervillea Decaisne (Secamoneae), with which it shares some gynostegium characters. Toxocarpus caudiclavus differs from Pervillea, however, in several characters and is best placed in a new genus, Calyptranthera, which is herein described and illustrated.
40300871|A new species of Caryodaphnopsis Airy Shaw from Henri Pittier National Park, in the Coastal Cordillera of Aragua State, Venezuela, is described and illustrated, and its morphological relationships with allied species are discussed. Caryodaphnopsis fieldii Aymard & G. A. Romero resembles C. fosteri van der Werff, but it is distinguished by leaves with densely puberulent petioles and a rounded apex, pedicels 2-3 mm long, inner tepals 3-4.5 mm long and densely sericeous inside, stout filaments ca. 2 mm long, inner stamens with two globose glands attached at the base, and the pubescent ovary. Geographical information about the Coastal Cordillera region and a key to the Neotropical species of Caryodaphnopsis are presented. This species represents the first report of this genus for Venezuela /// Una nueva especie de Caryodaphnopsis Airy Shaw del Parque Nacional Henri Pittier, en la Cordillera de la Costa, estado Aragua, Venezuela, es descrita e ilustrada, y sus relaciones morfologicas con las especies afines son discutidas. Caryodaphnopsis fieldii Aymard & G. A. Romero es similar a C. fosteri van der Werff, sin embargo, se diferencia de esta especie por sus peciolos densamente puberulentos, el apice redondeado; los pedicelos 2-3 mm de largo; los tepalos internos 3-4.5 mm de largo, densamente serfceos internamente, los filamentos gruesos, ca. 2 mm de largo, los estambres internos con dos glandulas globosas situadas en la base del filamento, y el ovario pubescente. Se presenta information geografica acerca de la Cordillera de la Costa y una clave de las especies Neotropicales de Caryodaphnopsis. Esta nueva especie representa el primer registro del genero para Venezuela.
10.2307/3391530|Parathesis palaciosii is described and illustrated, and its phylogenetic relationships are discussed.
20406306|The Jiuding Ridge (Sichuan, China) has been explored during the past several years by a team from Chengdu Institute of Biology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, and three undescribed species of Corydalis DC. (Fumariaceae) have been revealed and are apparently endemic to this mountain. The new species were observed in forest (C. capitata X. F. Gao, Lidn & Y. W. Wang), alpine scree (C. aeaeae X. F. Gao, Lidn & Y. W. Wang), and alpine rocky limestone areas (C. schistostigma X. F. Gao, Lidn, Y. W. Wang & Y. L. Peng). The two first species have their closest relatives in the Wolong-Balangshan District (Wenchuan, Sichuan). Corydalis aeaeae differs from C. panda Lidn & Y. W. Wang in its small size, few-flowered racemes, and broadly obtuse outer petals with low, short crests. Corydalis capitata differs from the C. flexuosa Franchet complex in the capitate racemes, small flowers with deeply serrate petals, and the peculiar, thin, strictly erect lateral branches. Corydalis schistostigma is unique in the C. curviflora Maximowicz ex Hemsley group, in the deeply cleft stigma and very forward-projecting crests to the inner petals, and possibly has its affinities more to the north and northwest in the Hengduan Mountains.
43289113|Two new species of Passiflora L. (Passifloraceae) endemic to eastern Mexico are described and illustrated and placed in subgenus Decaloba (DC.) Rchb., supersection Decaloba in a clade distinguished by no laminar nectaries. Passiflora dictamo DC. is a synonym of P. biflora Lam., and the rare diminutive species previously assigned to P.dictamo in Killip's monograph is described as P. lauana J. M. MacDougal. A second species, P. complanata J. M. MacDougal, is described and placed in the P. sexflora Juss. species group, where it is notable for its clusters of large flowers to 4 cm diam., flattened stems, and unusual 1/2 phyllotaxy. From Mexico we now recognize 75 native species of passionflowers.
10.2307/3392116|Adenophora ningxianica is described, and its relationships to A. wawreana Zahlbruckner and A. gmelinii (Sprengel) Fischer are discussed.
20406049|Oxypetalum gyrophyllum Farinaccio & Mello-Silva and O. oblanceolatum Farinaccio & Mello-Silva, two new species of Asclepiadoideae (Apocynaceae) from Brazil, are described and illustrated. Both species may be included in the O. insigne (Decaisne) Malme group. Oxypetalum gyrophyllum is closely related to O. glabrum (Decaisne) Malme, differing mainly by bigger and more circular leaves, a smaller corpusculum, and smaller teeth, which are curved inward and included versus curved outward and free. Oxypetalum oblanceolatum is immediately distinguished from all species of this group by oblanceolate leaves, an uncommon character state in the genus. A key for the species of the Oxypetalum insigne group is provided. /// Oxypetalum gyrophyllum Farinaccio & Mello-Silva e O. oblanceolatum Farinaccio & Mello-Silva, duas novas espcies de Asclepiadoideae (Apocynaceae), do Brasil so descritas e ilustradas. Ambas podem ser includas no grupo de Oxypetalum insigne (Decaisne) Malme. Oxypetalum gyrophyllum  semelhante a O. glabrum (Decaisne) Malme, mas difere pelas folhas maiores e circulares, pelo retinculo menor, e pelos dentes menores, inclusos e incurvados. Oxypetalum oblanceolatum  distinto das demais espcies do grupo pelas folhas oblanceoladas, um estado de carter pouco comum no gnero. Urna chave para as espcies do grupo de Oxypetalum insigne  tambm apresentada.
40300879|Cuphea jluviatilis S. A. Graham, a new species of the Lythraceae from the margins of the Rio Samana in Antioquia Department, Colombia, is described and illustrated. The taxonomic relationships of the species are unsettled. The species bears flowers closely similar to those of species in section Amazoniana (Lourteig) Lourteig, but lacks the distinctive malpighiaceous trichomes characterizing the section; its pollen morphology, a significant indicator of broad relationships in Cuphea, is also unlike that of the section. Pollen of section Amazoniana is typically nonsyncolpate, without protruding pores, and with a psilate to finely rugulate exine; that of C. jluviatilis is syncolpate with protruding pores and a striate exine, a type common to numerous species currently classified in the polyphyletic sections Brachyandra Koehne and Euandra Koehne.
10.2307/3392028|A new, cliff-dwelling species, Hedyotis flynnii, is described from the Hawaiian island of Kaua'i. It is distinguished by its conspicuously reticulate leaf venation, reduced leaves, and greenish yellow or sometimes white corollas. Based on morphological observations, it appears to be the first species in the genus known to have a dioecious breeding system. Hedyotis flynnii also expresses a strong corolla size dimorphism, with staminate flowers much larger than the pistillate. The taxonomy of the polymorphic species Hedyotis schlechtendahliana also is reconsidered recognizing the northwestern Kaua'i populations as Hedyotis schlechtendahliana subsp. waimeae, characterized by stiffly chartaceous to coriaceous reticulate leaves, open inflorescences, and subulate bracts and calyx lobes.
43289109|The typification of the name Kochia saxicola Guss. [= Eokochia saxcola (Guss.) Freitag & G. Kadereit] (Chenopodiaceae) is here discussed, and a specimen from the Gussone collection (NAP) is designated as the lectotype. The distribution of the species is given and remarks on its IUCN conservation status are provided.
10.2307/3391722|A new species, Millettia chrysamaryssa Adema from Peninsular Malaysia, is described.
20406276|There is a need to propose a new name in Cyperus L. for C. paucispiculatus Chermezon because the name currently used is an illegitimate later homonym of C. paucispiculatus Bckeler. A new name, C. limiticola Larridon & Reynders, is provided here.
20406081|A new species, Isostigma sparsifolium G. Peter, from central Brazil (State of Gois), resembles I. brasiliense (Gardner) Bentham & Hooker f. in habit; both species are perennial, with stmes branched at the base, ascendant, with peduncles erect, ivolucres bell-shaped, capitula up to 9 mm high and 12 mm in diameter, and the pappus aristate completely hispid. Nevertheless, I. sparsifolium can be distinguished by its pinnatisect leaves distributed along the stems, the stems winged, the peduncles shorter, and the reay corollas white. /// Una nueva especie, Isostigma sparsifolium G. Peter, de Brasil central (Estado de Gois), es similar a I. brasiliense (Gardner) Bentham & Hooker f. en hbito; ambas especies son perennes, con tallos ramificados en la base, ascendentes, con pednculos erectos, involucros acampanados, captulos hasta 9 mm alt. y 12 mm diam., y las aristas del papus completamente hspidas. Isostigma sparsifolium puede ser distinguida por sus hojas pinnatisectas distribuidas a lo largo de los tallos, tallos alados pednculos ms cortos, y corolas de las flores del radio blancas.
10.2307/3393273|Pedicularis inflexirostris F. S. Yang, D. Y. Hong & X. Q. Wang, a new species from the Hengduan Mountains, China, is described. Pedicularis inflexirostris is different from P. tatarinowii Maximowicz in having more slender stems, fewer branches, a cucullate middle lobe of the lower corolla lip, and glabrous filaments. Pedicularis deqinensis H. P. Yang is reduced to a synonym of P. ramosissima Bonati on the basis of their common characters of long and dense branches, recurved calyx teeth, pilose indumentum on the inner margin of the calyx, and cucullate middle lobe of the lower corolla lip.
10.2307/3393072|Draba nylamensis, D. kongboiana, and D. sunhangiana from Tibet (Xizang), China, D. macbeathiana from Nepal, D. bagmatiensis from Nepal and adjacent Sikkim (India), and D. himachalensis from India are described, and their distinguishing characters from the nearest relatives are discussed.
20406198|Astragalus hashtrudicus Ranjbar, a single new species endemic to Iran, is described and illustrated. The new species belongs to subgenus Cercidothrix Bunge, section Incani DC., in Astragalus L. and seems to be distinct among the Iranian species. Astragalus hashtrudicus is distributed in northwestern Iran in the Azarbaijan Sharqi province. It is closely related to A. prilipkoanus Grossheim and is distinguished by its pods that are rather densely covered with appressed white trichomes and its leaflets that lack minute dark reddish dots. The conservation status is evaluated as VU (Vulnerable) according to IUCN criteria.
20406058|A new species of Croton (Euphorbiaceae) from the western slopes of the Andes in Ecuador is described. Croton floccosus is a medium-sized tree that is common along streambeds and disturbed sites in the Pichincha and Imbabura provinces of Ecuador. This species appears most closely related to the Colombian species C. polycarpus Bentham, C. mutisianus Kunth, and C. magdalenensis Mller Argoviensis in section Cyclostigma Grisebach, but differs in having staminate flowers with gland-tipped petals, 15 or 16 stamens with pubescent filaments, and long pedicels (7-16 mm); small fruits (6.4-7.7 mm diameter); and entire to dentate stipule margins. Because of its apparent affinity with these Colombian species, I place Croton floccosus in section Cyclostigma. /// Se describe una nueva especie de Croton (Euphorbiaceae) de las vertientes occidentales de los Andes en Ecuador. Croton floccosus es un rbol mediano que es comn al lado de arroyos y sitios alterados en las provincias de Pichincha e Imbabura en Ecuador. Esta especie parece estar ms cercanamente relacionada con las especies colombianas C. polycarpus Bentham, C. mutisianus Kunth y C. magdalenensis Mller Argoviensis en la seccin Cyclostigma Grisebach, pero difiere por tener las flores estaminadas con ptalos glandulares en el pice, 5  16 estambres con los filamentos pubescentes y los pedicelos largos (7-16 mm); frutos pequeos (6.4-7.7. mm); y los mrgenes de las estpulas enteros o dentados. Debido a su afinidad evidente con estas especies colombianas, incluyo a Croton floccosus en la seccin Cyclostigma.
40300937|Comparative survey of morphological characters shows that Eranthemum tapingense W. W. Smith is better treated in Mackaya Harvey. Consequently, a new combination, M. tapingensis (W. W. Smith) Y. F. Deng & C. Y. Wu, is proposed, and its lectotype is designated. The species is distributed in China and Burma (Myanmar).
43288937|Based initially on the morphological similarity between species belonging to Actinocephalus (Krn.) Sano and Paepalanthus Mart, subsect. Aphorocaulon Ruhland (Eriocaulaceae), these taxa werestudied to clarify their relationships. After intensivefieldwork and morphological analyses of specimensbelonging to Paepalanthus subsect. Aphorocaulon andActinocephalus, we conclude that Paepalanthus subsect.Aphorocaulon and Actinocephalus should not beclassified as different taxa. This taxonomic opinion isconfirmed by published phylogenetic morphologicaland molecular data. We propose herein to includespecies of Paepalanthus subsect. Aphorocaulon inActinocephalus. Thus nomenclatural and taxonomicchanges are proposed in Actinocephalus and Paepalanthuswith the following 16 new combinations: A.actinocephaloides (Silveira) F. N. Costa [= P. actinocephaloides Silveira], A. arenicola (Silveira) F. N. Costa [= P. arenicola Silveira], A. armeria (Mart, ex Krn.) F. . Costa [= P. armena Mart, ex Krn.], A. bahiensis (Bong.) F. N. Costa [= P. bahiensis (Bong.) Kunth], A. barbiger (Silveira) F. N. Costa [= P. barbiger Silveira], A. geniculatus (Bong.) F. N. Costa [= P. geniculatus (Bong.) Kunth], A. ghreosus (Bong.) F. N. Costa [= P. glareosus (Bong.) Kunth], A. heteropus (Silveira) F. N. Costa [= P. heteropus Silveira], A. incanus (Bong.) F. N. Costa [= P. incanus (Bong.) Krn.], A. longifolius (Km.) F. . Costa [= P. longifolius Krn.], A. perbracchiatus (Silveira) F. N. Costa [= P. perbracchiatus Silveira], A. phaeocephalus (Ruhland) F. N. Costa [= P. phaeocephalus Ruhland], A. rhizomatosus (Silveira) F. N. Costa [= P. rhizomatosus Silveira], A. scytophyllus (Ruhland) F. . Costa [= P. scytophyllus Ruhland], A. trichopeplus (Silveira) F. N. Costa [= P. trichopeplus Silveira], and A. velutinus (Silveira) F. N. Costa [= P. velutinus Silveira]. In addition, nine new synonyms and lectotypifications for the six following names are presented: Paepalanthus subsect. Aphorocaulon Ruhland, PaepaLnthus subsect. Aphorocaulon  Incan Ruhland [unranked], Paepalanthus subsect. Aphorocaulon  Condensati Ruhland [unranked], P. incanus (Bong.) Krn. var.  Krn., P. praemorsus Ruhland, and A. scytophyllus (Ruhland) F. . Costa. As newly circumscribed, the genus Actinocephalus comprises 49 species restricted to Brazil, with the Espinhao Range as the center of species diversity. Species of Actinocephalus can be distinguished principally by the presence of paraclades covered by bracts and rarely a single scape arranged in an umbelliform coflorescence at the apex. Baseado inicialmente na similaridade morfolgica entre as especies pertencentes  Actinocephalus (Krn.) Sano e Paepalanthus Mart, subsect. Aphorocaulon Ruhland, estes taxons foram estudados a firn de elucidar suas relaes. Aps intensivo trabalho de campo e estudo da morfologia das especies pertencentes a Paepalanthus subsect. Aphorocaulon and Actinocephalus, conclumos que nao  possvel reconhecer Paepalanthus subsect. Aphorocaulon and Actinocephalus como dois taxons distintos. O posicionamento das especies de Paepalanthus subsect. Aphorocaulon em Actinocephalus tambm foi confirmado em anlises filogenticas publicadas por outros pesquisadores, empregando dados morfolgicos moleculares. Portanto, propomos aqui a incluso das especies de Paepalanthus subsect. Aphorocaulon em Actinocephalus, assim como as mudanas nomenclaturais e taxonmicas em Actinocephalus e Paepalanthus, com dezesseis novas combinaoes: A. actinocephaloides (Silveira) F. N. Costa [= P. actinocephaloides Silveira], A. arenicola (Silveira) F. N. Costa [= P. arenicola Silveira], A. armera (Mart, ex Krn.) F. . Costa [  . armera Mart, ex Krn.], A. bahiensis (Bong.) F. N. Costa [= P. bahiensis (Bong.) Kunth], A. barbiger (Silveira) F. N. Costa [= P. barbiger Silveira], A. geniculatus (Bongl) F. N. Costa [= P. geniculatus (Bong.) Kunth], A. glareosus (Bong.) F. N. Costa [= P. glareosus (Bong.) Kunth], A. heteropus (Silveira) F. N. Costa [= P. heteropus Silveira], A. incanus (Bong.) F. N. Costa [= P. incanus (Bong.) Krn.], A. longifolius (Krn.) F. N. Costa [= P. longifolius Krn.], A. perbracchiatus (Silveira) F. N. Costa [= P. perbracchiatus Silveira], A. phaeocephalu (Ruhland) F. . Costa [= P. phaeocephalus Ruhland], A. rhizomatosus (Silveira) F. N. Costa [= P. rhkomatosus Silveira], A. scytophyllus (Ruhland) F. . Costa [= P. scytophyllus Ruhland], A. trichopeplus (Silveira) F. N. Costa [= P. trichopeplus Silveira], and A. velutinus (Silveira) F. N. Costa [= P. velutinus Silveira]. Tambm sao propostas nove novas sinonimias e lectotipificaoes para os seis nomes: Paepalanthus subsect. Aphorocaulon Ruhland, Paepalanthus subsect. Aphorocaulon  Incan Ruhland [unranked], Paepalanthus subsect. Aphorocaulon  Condensati Ruhland [unranked], P. incanus (Bong.) Krn. var.  Krn., P. praemorsus Ruhland e A. scytophyllus (Ruhland) F. N. Costa. Considerando esta nova circunscriao, o genero Actinocephalus abrnge 49 especies restritas ao Brasil, com centro de diversidade localizado na Cadeia do Espinhao. Os representantes deste genero podem ser distinguidos principalmente pela presena de paracldios cobertos por brcteas e portando, no pice, um nico escapo ou ento numerosos escapos em um arranjo umbeliforme.
3393542|A new Astragalus species (family Fabaceae) with a glabrous ovary and pod, loose inflorescence, and 3 to 5 leaflets is described and illustrated: Astragalus joharchii. It is endemic to the Khorassan province of eastern Iran. Morphological evidence (bifurcated trichome, long stem, connate stipules, few leaflets, short peduncle, campanulate calyx, non-inflated calyx in fruit) supports taxonomic placement in Astragalus sect. Ammodendron, and the species appears to be most closely related to A. glabellus, as they share a glabrous ovary, glabrous pod, number of leaflets, and peduncle length.
41811664|Amaranthus pedersenianus N. Bayn & C. Pelez (Amaranthaceae) is a new Argentinian species of Amaranthus L. subg. Albersia (Kunth) Gren. & Godr. and is described and illustrated from the province of Salta. It is found in Andean puna and prepuna in both Salta and Jujuy provinces at altitudes between 2800 and 3775 m. Amaranthus pedersenianus is similar to A. cardenasianus Hunz., A. hunzikeri N. Bayn, A. kloosianus Hunz., A. squamulatus (Andersson) B. L. Rob., and A. urceolatus Benth. by its urceolate pistillate flowers with five sepals. The new taxon differs by its ascendant or erect habit, height of 5-20 cm, presence of leafless, short terminal inflorescences, flowers with usually four or five stamens, and dehiscent fruits.
10.2307/3391416|Ocotea pharomachrosorum (Lauraceae), of the Ocotea helecterifolia-group from Costa Rica and Panama, is described here.
10.2307/3393007|During preparation of the account of Maianthemum F. H. Wiggers for the Flora of China, volume 24, it was found that two taxa formerly treated under Smilacina Desfontaines required the following new combinations in Maianthemum, namely M. fusciduliflorum (Kawano) S. C. Chen & Kawano and M. stenolobum (Franchet) S. C. Chen & Kawano.
10.2307/3393246|Oxalis salvadorensis, a new species from the mixed lowland forests of western El Salvador, is described. An illustration is provided, and the differences between this and other morphologically similar Mesoamerican species of Oxalis are discussed.
10.2307/3391813|Morphological and distributional data are presented for Hedyotis serpyllacea, native to Guatemala and southern Mexico. The species is transferred to Arcytophyllum, extending the range of the genus northward from Costa Rica, Panama, and South America.
20406042|In the light of morphological and molecular evidence that the genus Mascagnia is polyphyletic, eight segregate genera are described, discussed, and illustrated, the necessary new combinations are proposed, and five new species are described (Amorimia camporum, A. kariniana, A. septentrionalis, A. velutina, and Niedenzuella caracasana). Keys to genera and species are provided. The genera and species are: Adelphia W. R. Anderson [A. hiraea (Gaertner) W. R. Anderson, A. macrophylla (Rusby) W. R. Anderson, A. mirabilis (W. R. Anderson) W. R. Anderson, A. platyrachis (Triana & Planchon) W. R. Anderson]; Aenigmatanthera W. R. Anderson [A. doniana (Grisebach in Martius) W. R. Anderson, A. lasiandra (A. Jussieu) W. R. Anderson]; Alicia W. R. Anderson [A. anisopetala (A. Jussieu in A. St.-Hilaire) W. R. Anderson, A. macrodisca (Triana & Planchon) W. R. Anderson]; Amorimia W. R. Anderson [A. amazonica (Niedenzu) W. R. Anderson, A. camporum W. R. Anderson, A. concinna (C. V. Morton) W. R. Anderson, A. exotropica (Grisebach in Martius) W. R. Anderson, A. kariniana W. R. Anderson, A. maritima (A. Jussieu) W. R. Anderson, A. pubiflora (A. Jussieu in A. St.-Hilaire) W. R. Anderson, A. rigida (A. Jussieu in A. St.-Hilaire) W. R. Anderson, A. septentrionalis W. R. Anderson, A. velutina W. R. Anderson]; Carolus W. R. Anderson [C. anderssonii (W. R. Anderson) W. R. Anderson, C. chasei (W. R. Anderson) W. R. Anderson, C. chlorocarpus (A. Jussieu) W. R. Anderson, C. dukei (Cuatrecasas & Croat) W. R. Anderson, C. renidens (A. Jussieu) W. R. Anderson, C. sinemariensis (Aublet) W. R. Anderson]; Christianella W. R. Anderson [C. glandulifera (Cuatrecasas) W. R. Anderson, C. mesoamericana (W. R. Anderson) W. R. Anderson, C. multiglandulosa (Niedenzu in Chodat & Hassler) W. R. Anderson, C. paludicola (W. R. Anderson) W. R. Anderson, C. surinamensis (Kostermans) W. R. Anderson]; Malpighiodes Niedenzu [M. bracteosa (Grisebach in Martius) W. R. Anderson, M. guianensis (W. R. Anderson) W. R. Anderson, M. leucanthele (Grisebach in Martius) W. R. Anderson, M. liesneri (W. R. Anderson) W. R. Anderson]; and Niedenzuella W. R. Anderson [N. acutifolia (Cavanilles) W. R. Anderson, N. caracasana W. R. Anderson, N. castanea (Cuatrecasas) W. R. Anderson, N. glabra (Sprengel) W. R. Anderson, N. leucosepala (Grisebach) W. R. Anderson, N. lucida (A. Jussieu in A. St.-Hilaire) W. R. Anderson, N. mater-dei (Cuatrecasas) W. R. Anderson, N. metensis (Cuatrecasas) W. R. Anderson, N. mogoriifolia (A. Jussieu in A. St.-Hilaire) W. R. Anderson, N. multiglandulosa (A. Jussieu) W. R. Anderson, N. peruviana (Niedenzu) W. R. Anderson, N. poeppigiana (A. Jussieu) W. R. Anderson, N. sericea (A. Jussieu in A. St.-Hilaire) W. R. Anderson, N. stannea (Grisebach) W. R. Anderson, N. suaveolens (A. Jussieu) W. R. Anderson, N. warmingiana (Grisebach) W. R. Anderson]. Lectotypes are designated for the following names: Heladena hassleriana Niedenzu in Chodat & Hassler, Hiraea anisopetala A. Jussieu in A. St.-Hilaire, Hiraea glabra Sprengel, Hiraea heteropetala A. Jussieu, Hiraea multiflora Grisebach, Hiraea poeppigiana A. Jussieu, Hiraea pubiflora A. Jussieu in A. St.-Hilaire, Hiraea renidens A. Jussieu, Hiraea rigida A. Jussieu in A. St.-Hilaire, Hiraea sericea A. Jussieu in A. St.-Hilaire, Malpighiodes Niedenzu, Malpighiodes spruceana Niedenzu, Mascagnia sect. Pleuropterys Grisebach in Martius, Mascagnia subsect. Sericopetalis Niedenzu, Mascagnia coriacea Grisebach in Martius, Mascagnia exotropica Grisebach in Martius, Mascagnia jamaicensis Urban & Niedenzu, Mascagnia multiglandulosa Niedenzu in Chodat & Hassler, Mascagnia parnahybensis Glaziou, Mascagnia sericans Niedenzu in Chodat & Hassler, Tetrapterys fraxinifolia A. Jussieu, Tetrapterys guilleminiana A. Jussieu, Tetrapterys lancifolia A. Jussieu, Tetrapterys ligustrifolia Niedenzu, Tetrapterys lucida A. Jussieu in A. St.-Hilaire, Tetrapterys martiana Niedenzu, Tetrapterys mogoriifolia A. Jussieu in A. St.-Hilaire, Tetrapterys multiglandulosa A. Jussieu, Tetrapterys punctulata A. Jussieu in A. St.-Hilaire.
10.2307/3392158|Gambeya nyangensis is shown to have been based on a mixed collection. The name is lectotypified and the species, with an amended description, is transferred to Synsepalum.
10.2307/3391391|Phylogenetic analyses based on molecular data indicate that the species of Rollandia are embedded within the genus Cyanea and that together these genera form a monophyletic group. Cyanea and Rollandia are therefore merged under the former name. A revised key to the baccate genera of Hawaiian Lobelioideae and an expanded description of the genus are provided; eight new combinations and one new name are proposed; and lectotypes are selected for Rollandia humboldtiana and R. longiflora var. angustifolia. This expanded circumscription makes Cyanea the largest genus in the Hawaiian flora, with 64 species and 10 heteronymic subspecies.
3393427| Suaeda neuquenensis, a new species of Suaeda (Chenopodiaceae), is described from Aelo's Bowl near Aelo, Neuqun Province, Argentina. It differs from other perennial Argentinean species in being a decumbent shrub with creeping stems that root at the lower nodes bearing short, oblong, often reflexed leaves and a large seed. 
40856312|In preparation for the treatment of Arctotis L. (Asteraceae) in the upcoming Conspectus of the Trans-Cape Succulent Karoo Flora of South Africa, the typification of names and synonymy for nine Arctotis species that occur within the Succulent Karoo region, South Africa, are clarified. The author citation for A. argntea is corrected from Thunb. to A. argentea Aiton, and the lectotype is selected. In addition, lectotypes are designated for A. auriculata Jacq., A. campanulata DC, A. campanulata var. puberula DC., A. canescens DC., A. cineraria Jacq., A. cuprea Jacq., A. denudata Thunb., A. diffusa Thunb., A. fastuosa Jacq., A. flaccida Jacq., A. flammea Jacq., A. glabrata Jacq., A. laevis Thunb., A. leucanthemoides Jacq., A. maximilianii Schltr. ex Beauverd, A. pusilla DC., A. revoluta Jacq., A. rosea Jacq., A. squarrosa Jacq., A. venidioides DC., and Venidium aureum DC.
23018455|A new species of Gesneriaceae, Petrocosmea huanjiangensis Yan Liu & W. B. Xu, is described and illustrated from northern Guangxi, China. The new species is related to P. martini (H. Lv.) H. Lv. but is distinguished on the basis of the peltate leaf blade, the densely lanate androecial filaments 67.2 mm long, the rostellate, cordateovoid anthers that are constricted near the apex, and the three staminodes, 23 mm long.
3393472|Matelea corrugata, from Costa Rica, M. costaricensis, from Costa Rica, M. emmartinezii, from Mexico, M. ferruginea, from Guatemala, M. filipes, from El Salvador, M. haberi, from Costa Rica, M. insolita, from Nicaragua, and M. velutinoides, from Mexico and Guatemala, are described as new. The new combinations Ditassa nigrescens (= Ditassa tatei), Gonolobus glaberrimus (= Matelea tikalana), Marsdenia fruticosa, and Polystemma guatemalense (= Matelea quirosii), are proposed, and the latter two are lectotypified. Asclepias angustifolia, A. auriculata, A. similis, Gonolobus barbatus, G. erianthus (= G. macranthus), G. guatemalensis, Marsdenia gymnemoides, Matelea gentlei, and Pherotrichis schaffneri are lectotypified or neotypified. The typification, synonymy, and application of Pherotrichis villosa are discussed.
27765193|A new species of Gesneriaceae (tribe Gloxinieae) is described from Ecuador and Peru in South America. Pearcea pileifolia J. L. Clark & L. E. Skog is vegetatively distinctive from all other species of Pearcea Regel by its oblong leaf blades with crenate to serrate margins and markedly anisophyllous, opposite leaves with the smaller leaf in a pair reduced to a scalelike appendage. Observations of the bivalved fruit dehiscence and the resulting appearance of winged appendages in P. pileifolia and other congeners are discussed.
10.2307/3393216|The new genus Ianthopappus Roque & D. J. N. Hind (Compositae, Mutisieae) is described, and a new combination, Ianthopappus corymbosus (Lessing) Roque & D. J. N. Hind, is made. The single species is easily distinguished by its subshrubby habit, discolorous leaves with actinodromous venation, corymbiform inflorescences, and a 3-seriate pappus with ca. 130 free, purple setae. Comparison is made between Ianthopappus and other members of the Mutisieae that possess apiculate to acuminate apical anther appendages and are placed in a more narrowly defined subtribe Gochnatiinae. Ianthopappus is distributed in southern South America from Brazil (Rio Grande do Sul), Uruguay, and northern Argentina.
40300919|Two new Brazilian species of Phyllanthus L. are described and illustrated and their morphological affinities are discussed. Phyllanthus longipedicellatus M. J. Silva resembles P. augustinii Baill. but differs by its leaves oblong-falcate to falcate-asymmetrical with margins obscurely serrulate, and pistillate flowers with patelliform disk. Phyllanthus salesiae M. J. Silva is similar to P. rosmarinifolius Miiller Argoviensis but it differs from the latter by its lacerate stipules, deeply lobed pistillate disk, incurved and bifid style, and seeds with darkish punctations. Both species are endemic to Brazil and known only from a single locality. The systematic position of both species with regard to the sections and subsections of Phyllanthus is also discussed. /// Duas novas espcies de Phyllanthus L. do Brasil so descritas e ilustradas com suas afinidades morfolgicas discutidas. Phyllanthus longipedicellatus M. J. Silva assemelha-se a P. augustinii Baill., mas difere desta pelos folhas oblongo-falcadas a falcado-assimetricas com margens discretamente serruladas e flores pistiladas com disco pateliforme. Phyllanthus salesiae M. J. Silva assemelha-se a P. rosmarinifolius Miiller Argoviensis do qual difere pelas estpulas laceradas, disco pistilado profundamente lobado, estiletes encurvados e bifidos e sementes com pontuaes enegrecidas. Ambas as espcies so endmicas para o Brasil, conhecidas de suas respectivas colees-tipo e tm suas posies sistemticas discutidas em relao a sees e subsees de Phyllanthus.
10.2307/3393523|Chionographis japonica var. hisauchiana Okuyama is raised to specific rank as C. hisauchiana (Okuyama) N. Tanaka, since it differs markedly from C. japonica (Willdenow) Maximowicz var. japonica in several characters. Chionographis japonica var. minoensis H. Hara and C. japonica var. kurohimensis Ajima & Satomi are transferred to C. hisauchiana at subspecific rank as C. hisauchiana subsp. minoensis (H. Hara) N. Tanaka and C. hisauchiana subsp. kurohimensis (Ajima & Satomi) N. Tanaka, respectively. A key to the four taxa accepted here is presented.
23018507|The Neotropical genus Posoqueria Aubl. (Rubiaceae) has a number of species with an asymmetric androecium and pollen catapult mechanism and others that apparently lack these features. A new taxonomy based on corolla form and size, the length and symmetry of the filaments, and fruit morphology finds the name P. panamensis (Walp. & Duchass.) Walp. to be a synonym of P. latifolia (Rudge) Roem. & Schult. and distinguishes additional species in southern Central America and northwestern South America, newly described here: P. chocoana C. M. Taylor of wet lowland Panama to northwestern Ecuador has medium-sized corollas, subglobose fruits, corolla lobes of unequal size, and a generally symmetric androecium that apparently lacks the pollen catapult mechanism; P. correana C. M. Taylor of lowland and premontane Panama has medium-sized corollas, leaf blades that are sharply acute at the apex and densely velutinous abaxially, slightly unequal corolla lobes, and a generally symmetric androecium that apparently lacks the pollen catapult mechanism; P. costaricensis C. M. Taylor, found in premontane forests in Costa Rica and Panama, has relatively short corollas (for Posoqueria) and a generally symmetric androecium that apparently lacks the pollen catapult mechanism; P. grandifructa Hammel & C. M. Taylor of lowland Nicaragua and Costa Rica has medium-sized corollas, relatively large, ellipsoid, rough-surfaced, thick-walled fruits, and a generally symmetric androecium that apparently lacks the pollen catapult mechanism; P. longifilamentosa C. M. Taylor of lowland northwestern Ecuador has relatively long corollas and an asymmetric androecium with a pollen catapult mechanism, relatively long unequal filaments, and relatively large anthers; and P. robusta Hammel & C. M. Taylor of lowland Nicaragua and Costa Rica has leathery leaves, relatively long corollas with unequal lobes, subglobose leathery fruits, and a symmetric androecium that apparently lacks the pollen catapult mechanism. El gnero neotropical Posoqueria Aubl. (Rubiaceae) incluye varias especies con androceo asimtrico y un mecanismo de dispersin del polen por catapulta, y varias especies sin estes carcteres. Una taxonoma nueva basada en la forma y el tamao de la corola, el largo y la simetra de los filamentos y la morfologa de los frutos demuestra que el nombre P. panamensis (Walp. & Duchass.) Walp. es sinnimo de P. latifolia (Rudge) Roem. & Schult., y distingue otras especies en el sur de Amrica Central y el noroeste de Amrica del Sur, nuevamente descritas aqu: P. chocoana C. M. Taylor de tierra baja hmeda de Panam al noroeste de Ecuador tiene corolas de tamao mediano, frutos subglobosos y los lobos de la corola de tamao desigual, adems un androceo por lo general simtrico que aparentemente no tiene el mecanismo de catapulta de polen; P. correana C. M. Taylor de tierra baja y premontana de Panam tiene corolas de tamao mediano, hojas con la lmina muy aguda en el pice y densamente veltina en el envs, lobos de la corola un poco desiguales y un androceo por lo general simtrico que aparentemente no tiene el mecanismo de catapulta de polen; P. costaricensis C. M. Taylor, de bosques premontanos en Costa Rica y Panam, tiene corolas relativamente cortas (para Posoqueria) y un androceo por lo general simtrico que aparentemente no tiene el mecanismo de catapulta de polen; P. grandifructa Hammel & C. M. Taylor de tierra baja de Nicaragua y Costa Rica tiene corolas de tamao mediano, frutos relativamente grandes, elipsoides, de superficie tosca y de pared gruesa y un androceo por lo general simtrico que aparentemente no tiene el mecanismo de catapulta de polen; P. longifilamentosa C. M. Taylor de tierra baja de Ecuador tiene corolas relativamente largas, un androceo asimtrico con un mecanismo de catapulta de polen, filamentos relativamente largos y desiguales y anteras relativamente grandes; y P. robusta Hammel & C. M. Taylor de tierra baja de Nicaragua y Costa Rica tiene hojas coriceas, corolas relativamente largas con los lobos desiguales, subglobosos frutos coriceos y un androceo simtrico que aparentemente no tiene el mecanismo de catapulta de polen.
10.2307/3391763|Carex scirpoidea Michaux var. convoluta Kkenthal and C. scirpoidea Michaux var. pseudoscirpoidea (Rydberg) Cronquist are herein recognized and elevated to subspecies, and Carex scabriuscula Mackenzie and Carex gigas (Holm) Mackenzie are treated as synonyms.
23018510|Sciaphila jianfenglingensis Han Xu, Y. D. Li & H. Q. Chen (Triuridaceae) is described and illustrated as a new species endemic to Hainan Island, China. It differs from the closely related S. arfakiana Becc. by its longer leaves to ca. 2 mm (vs. ca. 1 mm in S. arfakiana), shorter fruiting pedicels 36 mm (vs. typically 79 mm), three stamens (vs. two or three), 2-celled anthers (vs. 4-celled), and a filiform style (vs. awl-shaped) that far exceeds the ovary.
10.2307/3391935|Details of typification are presented for 25 of the 27 existing binomials in Ancistrocladus Wallich (Ancistrocladaceae). Holotypes are indicated for A. carallioides Craib, A. congolensis J. Lonard, A. ealaensis J. Lonard, A. extensus Wallich ex Planchon, A. griffithii Planchon, A. guineensis Oliver, Wormia hamata Vahl [A. hamatus (Vahl) Gilg, A. vahlii Arnott], A. harmandii Gagnepain, A. heyneanus Wallich ex J. Graham, A. korupensis D. W. Thomas & Gereau, A. letestui Pellegrin, A. likokoi J. Lonard, A. pachyrrhachis Airy Shaw, A. pinangianus Wallich ex Planchon, A. robertsoniorum J. Lonard, Bembix tectoria Loureiro [A. tectorius (Loureiro) Merrill], A. thwaitesii Tieghem, A. uncinatus Hutchinson & Dalziel, and A. wallichii Planchon. Previously designated lectotypes are indicated for A. abbreviatus Airy Shaw and A. barteri Scott-Elliot, lectotypes are newly designated for A. attenuatus Dyer and A. cochinchinensis Gagnepain, and the probable need for neotypification of A. hainanensis Hayata is discussed. Two names, A. pentagynus Warburg and A. sagittatus Wallich ex Planchon, are excluded from the genus.
10.2307/3392966|For the upcoming treatment of the genus Mirabilis for the Flora of North America North of Mexico, M. linearis (Pursh) Heimerl is treated as having three thoroughly intergrading varieties: M. linearis var. linearis, M. linearis var. decipiens (Standley) S. L. Welsh, and M. linearis var. subhispida (Heimerl) Spellenberg, a new combination published here, based on M. linearis f. subhispida Heimerl. Mirabilis linearis var. subhispida is common on the Great Plains, where it has most often passed as narrow-leaved phases of M. hirsuta (Pursh) Macmillan, or as M. gausapoides (Standley) Standley. A key is provided to distinguish the three varieties of M. linearis.
10.2307/3393509|Clidemia clandestina (Melastomataceae) of Costa Rica and Panama is newly described as part of a review of the goblet-flowered species from tropical America. This natural group of three species, including C. garciabarrigae and C. utleyana, is characterized by 5-merous flowers that are goblet-shaped in profile view with erect red petals that are connivent and cucullate at anthesis, minute anther thecae with wide ventrally inclined apical pores, and a completely inferior 3-locular ovary. An original chromosome count of n = 17 is reported for C. utleyana, and a count of n = 23 is reported for C. clandestina and C. garciabarrigae. The significance of these chromosome numbers is evaluated in the context of previous reports for the tribe Miconieae together with a diagnostic key, descriptions, illustrations, new distributional information, phenological notes, and citations of representative specimens.
10.2307/3391672|Nomenclatural changes are made for the Flora of China, affecting Anisodus, Archiphysalis, Leucophysalis, Physaliastrum, and Scopolia.
10.2307/3393558| Dichapetalum berendinae, D. findouense, D. inaequale, and D. mathisii (Dichapetalaceae) are described as new from Gabon. All four species are illustrated, and their distributions are mapped. The necessary adaptations of the keys, for the Central African species as well as for the Flore du Gabon, are provided. /// Dichapetalum berendinae, D. findouense, D. inaequale et D. mathisii (Dichapetalaceae) du Gabon sont dcrits et illustrs. Les cartes de rpartition des quatre espces sont prsentes. Les adaptations ncessaires pour la cl des espces centreafricaines de Dichapetalum ainsi que pour celle de la Flore du Gabon sont ajoutes. 
10.2307/3391862|Of South American Xyris sent to the author for determination by the Missouri Botanical Garden and The New York Botanical Garden, six appear to be new species: three (X. boliviana, X. guillenii, and X. subasperula, sent from MO) are recent collections from eastern Bolivia; two (X. amorimii and X. ferreirae, sent from NY) are Brazilian, from Bahia and Amazonas, respectively. A sixth (X. gongylospica) was collected from the Guayana Highlands of Bolvar, Venezuela. All are described and illustrated, and their relationships are discussed.
10.2307/3392134|Rhadamanthus involutus is a rare, hysteranthous-leaved species from the Bokkeveld Escarpment, west of Nieuwoudtville, Northern Cape Province, South Africa. Most closely related to R. albiflorus B. Nordenstam, R. involutus is distinguished by apically recurved outer tepals that are conspicuously spotted with green at the base, and suberect inner tepals that have involute margins which overlap to form a tube. The bulbs grow on exposed sandstone sheets between patches of dry fynbos and flower in midsummer.
10.2307/3392002|Heteropterys mulgurae, from Misiones, Argentina, and Paran, Brazil, and H. schulziana, from Salta, Argentina, are described as new, and the distinction of each from its closest sister species is discussed.
10.2307/3393153|A new subspecies, Dicerandra frutescens Shinners subsp. modesta (Labiatae), is described for Florida. Occurring only in Polk County, this new taxon is distinguished from D. frutescens subsp. frutescens in Highlands County by the number of flowers per cyme, corolla coloration, shape of the upper lip of the corolla, and chromosome number. A new variety, D. immaculata Lakela var. savannarum, is described from east coastal Florida and is separated from D. immaculata var. immaculata by its wider leaves and lax habit.
3393451| Close examination of the type specimens of Aconitum acutiusculum and of A. acutiusculum var. aureopilosum has shown that their inflorescence rachis and pedicels are all yellowish spreading pubescent, and thus the two taxa show no essential difference from each other. They are merged herein. A new combination, A. ouvrardianum var. acutiusculum (Fletcher & Lauener) Q. E. Yang & Y. Luo, is proposed, considering that A. acutiusculum is most similar to A. ouvrardianum in having leaves 3-sect with ultimate lobules linear or lanceolate-linear, inflorescence rachis and pedicels yellowish spreading puberulent, and the upper sepal navicular-galeate, yet distinguishable by the acute tip of the lateral sepals; they are sympatric in geographical distribution, both occurring in Dqn County, northwestern Yunnan. 
3393312|Holcoglossum weixiense X. H. Jin & S. C. Chen, a new species of Orchidaceae from Yunnan, China, is described and illustrated. It resembles morphologically H. sinicum Christenson and H. flavescens, but it can be distinguished from the former by having a transverse callus on the lip, a papillose spur, and a semi-orbicular mid-lobe, and from the latter by its pending habit, longer and semiterete leaves (more than 10 cm), and the semi-orbicular mid-lobe.
10.2307/3392094|Jaltomata sagastegui and J. cajamarca, both of Peru, Dept. Cajamarca, Prov. Contumaz, are described and shown in photographs. Jaltomata sagastegui is self-compatible and has a chromosome number of n = 12; the type was collected at 2500 m elevation. Jaltomata cajamarca grows between 1700 m and 2600 m elevation. Berries of both species are eaten by humans. /// Jaltomata sagastegui y J. cajamarca, las dos de Per, dpto. Cajamarca, prov. Contumaz, se describen y muestran en fotografas. Jaltomata sagastegui es auto-compatible y tiene un nmero de cromosomas de n = 12; el tipo fue colectado a 2500 m s.n.m. Jaltomata cajamarca crece entre 1700 m y 2600 m s.n.m. Las bayas de las dos especies son comestibles.
3393452|Some names of Diplopterygium widely used in Chinese literature of pteridophytes are not valid; therefore, formal combinations of five names for Diplopterygium species from China are validated, i.e., D. criticum (Ching & P. S. Chiu) Ching ex X. C. Zhang, D. rufum (Ching) Ching ex X. C. Zhang, D. rufopilosum (Ching & P. S. Chiu) Ching ex X. C. Zhang, D. simulans (Ching) Ching ex X. C. Zhang, and D. yunnanense (Ching) Ching ex X. C. Zhang. Diplopterygium rufopilosum is lectotypified.
3393471|On the basis of morphological characters inconsistent with their current taxonomic placements, new combinations are made for the following species of woody bamboos within the flora of China: Ampelocalamus breviligulatus, Ampelocalamus hirsutissimus, Ampelocalamus melicoides, Drepanostachyum semiorbiculatum, Drepanostachyum ampullarium, Drepanostachyum membranaceum, and Bonia parvifloscula. To accommodate broader generic concepts, new combinations are made for Arundinaria qingchengshanensis and Arundinaria spanostachya, and new status is given to Bashania as Arundinaria subgen. Bashania, and to Sarocalamus as Arundinaria subgen. Sarocalamus.
10.2307/3392242|Morphological characters support the description of five new species of Millettia, M. capuronii Du Puy & Labat, M. hitsika Du Puy & Labat, M. nathaliae Du Puy & Labat, M. orientalis Du Puy & Labat, and M. taolanaroensis Du Puy & Labat, and one new species of Pongamiopsis, P. viguieri Du Puy & Labat, from Madagascar. The genus Neodunnia R. Viguier is considered to be a synonym of Millettia, and two new combinations, M. aurea (R. Viguier) Du Puy & Labat and M. richardiana (Baillon) Du Puy & Labat, are made. /// L'tude des caractres morphologiques permet la description de cinq nouvelles espces de Millettia: M. capuronii Du Puy & Labat, M. hitsika Du Puy & Labat, M. nathaliae Du Puy & Labat, M. orientalis Du Puy & Labat, et M. taolanaroensis Du Puy & Labat, et une nouvelle espce de Pongamiopsis, P. viguieri Du Puy & Labat, de Madagascar. Le genre Neodunnia R. Viguier est considr comme tant un synonyme de Millettia et deux nouvelles combinaisons, M. aurea (R. Viguier) Du Puy & Labat and M. richardiana (Baillon) Du Puy & Labat, sont faites.
23018474|The new species Cestrum sotonunezii Mont.-Castro (Solanaceae) is described from central Mexico. Because of their overall similarity, specimens of the new species have been previously confused with C. flavescens Greenm., C. aurantiacum Lindl., C. oblongifolium Schltdl., and C. thyrsoideum Kunth, all of which also occur in central Mexico. The new species is most similar to C. flavescens, but is clearly separated by several characteristics, mainly differences in the androecium. The new species is described and illustrated, and a key to distinguish morphologically similar species in central Mexico (Guerrero, Michoacn) is provided. Se describe la especie nueva Cestrum sotonunezii Mont.-Castro (Solanaceae) proveniente del centro de Mxico. Las colecciones de la nueva especie han sido confundidas con otras especies que se distribuyen en el centro de Mxico como C. flavescens Greenm., C. aurantiacum Lindl., C. oblongifolium Schltdl. y C. thyrsoideum Kunth. Con la primera especie guarda gran parecido pero C. sotonunezii est claramente separada por varias caractersticas, especialmente en los estambres. Se incluye ilustracin de este taxon y clave para diferenciar especies morfolgicamente similares del centro de Mxico (Guerrero, Michoacn).
3393325|In the course of studying the systematics of the subtribe Saccharinae (Poaceae: Andropogoneae), it was noticed that the name Pseudopogonatherum capilliphyllum S. L. Chen, published to replace the legitimate name Eulalia filifolia S. L. Chen, is nomenclaturally superfluous and therefore illegitimate. A new combination in Pseudopogonatherum, P. filifolium (S. L. Chen) H. Yu, Y. F. Deng & N. X. Zhao, is proposed here.
10.2307/3392012|Calycolpus australis (Myrtaceae) of Minas Gerais, Brazil, is described as a new species. It is perhaps most similar to C. alternifolius but differs in various floral characters. This new species extends the range of the genus six degrees of latitude farther south.
10.2307/3391756|Holomitrium hawkinsii differs from all other species in the genus by its dioicous condition with full-sized male and female plants. It is close to H. pulchellum, an entire-leaved species of Holomitrium, but is a larger plant with longer, more slender leaves that have upper margins obscurely and distantly dentate to spiculose, and lower leaf margins distantly serrulate. A key to the seven species of Holomitrium in Central America is given.
3393349| Se describen Weinmannia cogolloi y W. vulcanicola (Cunoniaceae), dos nuevas especies de Colombia y Costa Rica respectivamente. Weinmannia cogolloi es un taxn bastante singular dentro del gnero, por la presencia de inflorescencias paniculadas con ejes secundarios evidentes; aunque se encuentra algo relacionada con W. latifolia C. Presl y W. macrophylla Kunth, estas ltimas se separan por sus inflorescencias racemosas. Weinmannia vulcanicola se encuentra relacionada con W. trianaea Weddell, de la que se separa por sus hojas con mayor nmero de fololos, con la lmina ms pequea y el raquis alado, as como por el conspicuo indumento de sus ramitas jvenes. /// Weinmannia cogolloi and W. vulcanicola (Cunoniaceae), two new species from Colombia and Costa Rica, respectively, are described. Weinmannia cogolloi is distinct within the genus on account of its paniculate inflorescences, with conspicuous secondary axes; it is somewhat related to W. latifolia C. Presl and W. macrophylla Kunth, but these species are easily separated by their racemose inflorescences. Weinmannia vulcanicola is somewhat related to W. trianaea Weddell, but it is distinguished by its leaves with more and smaller leaflets, winged rachis, and the indument of the young stems. 
3393395|The new name Festuca sinomutica X. Chen & S. M. Phillips (Poaceae) is proposed for a species of Festuca from Yunnan Province, China.
10.2307/3393090|Dioscorea omiltemensis, una nueva especie del estado de Guerrero, Mxico, es descrita. Se ubica en la seccin Hyperocarpa, esta especie nueva se distingue de D. oreodoxa de Mxico, as como de D. niederleinii y D. grisebachii de Sudamrica dentro de la misma seccin por su morfologa, distribucin geogrfica y preferencias ecolgicas distintas. Adems, en este trabajo, se describen e ilustran las flores estaminadas de D. tacanensis por primera vez, de ejemplares de la localidad tipo. Se discuten sus relaciones con D. cyphocarpa, se brindan datos de su distribucin geogrfica y preferencias ecolgicas. /// Dioscorea omiltemensis, a new species from the State of Guerrero, Mexico, is described. Assigned to section Hyperocarpa, the new species is distinguished from D. oreodoxa of Mexico, as well as D. niederleinii and D. grisebachii of South America within the same section, by its different morphology, its geographic distribution, and its ecological preferences. In addition, in this paper the staminate flowers of D. tacanensis are described and illustrated for the first time from the collections from the type locality; its relationship with D. cyphocarpa is discussed, as well as its geographic distribution and ecologic preferences.
10.2307/3392195|The new species Palicourea orquidea, Palicourea quadrilateralis, Palicourea sopkinii, Palicourea zarucchii, Psychotria ovatistipula, Psychotria sanchezii, and Psychotria vesciculifera are described and illustrated. These are all shrubs or small trees found in wet forests at 520-2500 m in the Pacific slope and Cordilleras Occidental and Central of Antioquia and Choc Departments, Colombia. /// Se describen e ilustran las especies nuevas Palicourea orquidea, Palicourea quadrilateralis, Palicourea sopkinii, Palicourea zarucchii, Psychotria ovatistipula, Psychotria sanchezii y Psychotria vesciculifera. Todas son arbustos o arbolitos que crecen en bosques hmedos de 520-2500 m en la vertiente del Pacfico y las Cordilleras Occidental y Central de los Departmentos de Antioquia y el Choc, Colombia.
10.2307/3393048|Some nomenclatural amendments caused by taxonomic revision in Asteraceae and Poaceae will be adopted for the flora of Florida. Therefore, the new combinations Carphephorus odoratissimus var. subtropicanus (DeLaney et al.) Wunderlin & B. F. Hansen, Symphyotrichum carolinianum (Walter) Wunderlin & B. F. Hansen, Symphyotrichum sericeum var. microphyllum (DC.) Wunderlin & B. F. Hansen, Symphyotrichum concolor var. plumosum (Small) Wunderlin & B. F. Hansen, Dichanthelium nudicaule (Vasey) B. F. Hansen & Wunderlin, Urochloa fusca (Swartz) B. F. Hansen & Wunderlin, and Urochloa fusca var. reticulata (Torrey) B. F. Hansen & Wunderlin are proposed for Florida taxa.
10.2307/3393150|Upon learning that the genus Pherosphaera W. Archer bis (1850) was a synonym of the monospecific Tasmanian genus Microcachrys Hooker f. (1845), the family name Microcachrydaceae Doweld & Reveal (1999) was proposed for conservation giving it priority over Pherosphaeraceae Nakai (1938). The long-used name Pherosphaeraceae was consistently misapplied in the sense of Microstrobos J. Garden & L. A. S. Johnson (1951). Accordingly, a new family, Microstrobaceae, is validated and segregated into its own order, Microstrobales. In addition, for those who might wish to recognize the taxon at a lower rank within Podocarpaceae Endlicher, the names Microstroboideae and Microstrobeae are established to replace the already existing but consistently misapplied Pherosphaeroideae Pilger (1903, 1916) and Pherosphaereae Pilger (1903).
10.2307/3391965|Three new Andean species of Zanthoxylum (= Fagara), Z. gentryi Reynel, Z. lenticulare Reynel, and Z. lepidopteriphilum Reynel, are described and illustrated. Vegetative characters of taxonomic and practical identification value are briefly discussed. Some of these features relate to insect-plant interactions. /// Tres nuevas especies de Zanthoxylum (= Fagara), Z. gentryi Reynel, Z. lenticulare Reynel y Z. lepidopteriphilum Reynel, son descritas e ilustradas. Se discuten brevemente caracteres vegetativos de utilidad taxonmica y prctica en la identificacin de especies en el gnero. Algunos de estos caracteres tienen relacin con interacciones insecto-planta.
43288934|In this taxonomic contribution, a new species of Lauraceae, Ocotea grandifructa L. C. S.Assis & M. F. Santos, from the Brazilian Atlanticforest in Minas Grais State, is presented. Followingthe diagnostic criterion for species delimitation, inwhich a species is delimited by an exclusive featureor an exclusive combination of morphologicalfeatures, the new species differs from other dioeciousspecies in Ocotea Aubl. by presenting branchletswith rhythmic growth, chartaceous leaf laminas,deciduous perianth at fruit maturity, cupules with asingle margin, and large, ovoid fruit. Nesta contribuiao taxonmica, urna especie nova de Lauraceae, Ocotea grandifructa L. C. S. Assis & M. F. Santos,  descoberta na florestaatlntica brasileira, no Estado de Minas Grais. Seguindo o criterio diagnstico para a delimitao deespecies, no qual urna especie  delimitada por urnacaracterstica exclusiva ou urna combinaao exclusivade caractersticas morfolgicas, a especie nova diferesedas outras dioicas em Ocotea Aubl. por apresentarramos com crescimento rtmico, lminas cartceas, umperianto deciduo na maturidade dos frutos, cpulascom urna nica margem e frutos grandes, ovoides.
41811676|A new pteridophyte species, Polystichum tiankengicola Li Bing Zhang, Q. Luo & P. S. Wang (Dryopteridaceae), is described and illustrated from a high-elevational karst sinkhole from Guizhou Province in China. Morphological evidence suggests that P. tiankengicola is a member of series Basigemmifera W. M. Chu & Z. R. He in section Micropolystichum Daigobo, based on the presence of bulbils on rachis and the small habit. Polystichum tiankengicola is unique in series Basigemmifera in having a bulbil at both the base and apex of the rachis. Morphologically, the new species is most similar to P. capillipes (Baker) Diels, also of series Basigemmifera, but beyond the distinctive number of bulbils on the rachis, P. tiankengicola has a truncate lamina apex and its perispores have an echinate sculpture with irregular ridges, in contrast to P. capillipes, which has only one bulbil at the base of the rachis, an acuminate lamina apex, and perispores that have a granular sculpture. Polystichum tiankengicola is found only from the highest elevational, karst sinkhole known in China (2530 m) and is considered to be Critically Endangered (CR), based on IUCN Red List criteria.
10.2307/3393186|This paper validates a nomem nudum for an endemic Lavoisiera from Cristalina, Gois, in central Brazil. It was first collected by Glaziou in 1895 and then sent to Cogniaux, who named it but never formally described it. The Cogniaux name is maintained since it is cited in Glaziou's published list of collections and on herbarium specimens. Lavoisiera fragilis is a small white-flowered tree that is protected by the Linda Serra dos Topzios Private Reserve. /// Este trabalho torna vlido um nomen nudum para uma Lavoisiera endmica de Cristalina, Gois no Brasil Central. A espcie foi coleta pela primeira vez por Glaziou em 1895 e enviada para Cogniaux, que a nomeou mas nunca a descreveu formalmente. O nome dado por Cogniaux  mantido por ter sido citado na lista publicada de coletas de Glaziou e por aparecer nas suas etiquetas de material herborizado. Lavoisiera fragilis  uma pequena rvore de flores alvas, protegida pela Reserva Particular de Patrimnio Natural (RPPN) Linda Serra dos Topzios.
10.2307/3391990|A new species of the genus Campnosperma, previously considered to contain only a single species in Madagascar, is described from the Massif de Marojejy in northeastern Madagascar. Campnosperma parvifolium differs from C. micranteium in its smaller leaves, with fewer secondary veins, and sparsely but evenly lepidote leaf under-surface. It occurs on high mountain ridges at Marojejy and Anjanaharibe, while C. micranteium is a species found on sand in littoral forests.
20406085|Recent collecting efforts in Madagascar's eastern littoral forest have yielded a new species, Ludia craggiana Z. S. Rogers, Randrianasolo & J. S. Miller (Salicaceae), which is apparently endemic to two sandy forest fragments located near Vohmar in northeastern Madagascar. This species is most similar to L. ludiifolia (H. Perrier) Capuron & Sleumer, but can be distinguished by its more robust young stems and spines, glabrous or rarely puberulent twigs, petioles, midribs, and pedicels, coriaceous leaves with midveins and secondary venation of similar thickness, 50 to 60 stamens with emarginate anther connectives, and by the minutely granular-papillose fruit surface. Ludia craggiana is illustrated and assigned a provisional conservation status of endangered. /// Des inventaires botaniques rcents effectus dans les forts littorales de l'Est de Madagascar ont conduit  la dcouverte d'une nouvelle espce Ludia craggiana Z. S. Rogers, Randrianasolo & J. S. Miller (Salicaceae), qui est apparemment endmique de deux fragments de fort littorale sur sable aux environs de Vohmar au NE de Madagascar. Cette espce ressemble beaucoup  L. ludiifolia (H. Perrier) Capuron & Sleumer mais se distingue de celle-ci par ses jeunes rameaux et ses pines plus robustes, ses ramilles et ses nervures mdianes ainsi que ses pedicelles glabres ou rarement puberulents, ses feuilles coriaces  nervures primaires et secondaires d'paisseur semblable, ses 50  60 tamines avec des anthres  connectifs emargins, et par la surface du fruit finement granulaire-papille. Une illustration ainsi qu'un statut de conservation provisoire rattach  la catgorie "en danger" de cette espce sont prsents.
10.2307/3392025|Three new species of Sauvagesioideae (Ochnaceae) are described: Adenarake macrocarpa Sastre from Venezuela, Adenanthe ciliata Sastre from Guyana, and Tyleria terrae-humilis Sastre from Venezuela.
23018501|The species Asparagus kansuensis F. T. Wang & T. Tang ex S. C. Chen (Asparagaceae) from China was invalidly published in 1978, because two types were simultaneously indicated. The plant name is validly published here, but otherwise refers to the 1978 diagnosis. Thus, the original ascription to authors is kept.
3393394| Two new species, two new varieties, and two new combinations for Lythraceae from Bolivia, Brazil, Cuba, and Mexico are proposed. The new species are Cuphea aquilana from Mexico and C. potamophila from Brazil. The new varieties are C. pulchra var. corollata from Brazil and Diplusodon virgatus var. occidentalis from Brazil and Bolivia. Cuphea sessilifolia subsp. bahiensis is elevated to the rank of species. Cuphea grisebachiana, from Cuba, is reduced to varietal status as C. parsonsia var. grisebachiana, and the first report of its chromosome number is given. The range of Cuphea xanthopetala, previously known only from Mato Grosso, Brazil, is extended by discovery of the species in Amazonas, Brazil. Additional collections also expand the range of the recently described Diplusodon bolivianus in Santa Cruz, Bolivia, and Mato Grosso, Brazil. /// Duas novas espcies, duas novas variedades e duas novas combinaes para Lythraceae da Bolvia, Brasil, Cuba e Mxico so propostas. As novas espcies so Cuphea aquilana, do Mxico e C. potamophila, do Brasil. As novas variedades so C. pulchra var. corollata, do Brasil e Diplusodon virgatus var. occidentalis, do Brasil e Bolvia. Cuphea sessilifolia subsp. bahiensis  elevada ao estatus de espcie. Cuphea grisebachiana da Cuba  reduzida ao estatus varietal como C. parsonsia var. grisebachiana e o primeiro registro sobre o seu numero cromossmico  fornecido. A amplitude de distribuio de C. xanthopetala, previamente conhecida apenas para o Mato Grosso, Brasil,  extendida pela descoberta da espcie na Amaznia, Brasil. Colees adicionais do Mato Grosso, Brasil, expandem tambm a distribuio conhecida de Diplusodon bolivianus, recentemente descrita para Santa Cruz, Bolvia. 
10.2307/3393033|During preparation of the account of Stellaria L. (Caryophyllaceae) for the Flora of China, Volume 6, it was noticed that two names are illegitimate later homonyms: Stellaria arenaria Maximowicz, non Linnaeus, and Stellaria pilosa Franchet, non Dulac. Therefore, the following new names (nomina nova) are provided here: Stellaria arenarioides Shi L. Chen, Rabeler & Turland and Stellaria pilosoides Shi L. Chen, Rabeler & Turland.
40300896|Astragalus ghanbarianii Maassoumi, Podlech & Zarre and A. nervifolius Maassoumi, Podlech & Zarre, two new species of Astragalus sect. Campylanthus Bunge (Fabaceae) from Iran, are described and illustrated. Because of the considerable changes in the delimitation of this section, a new diagnostic key to its species is presented. Moreover, A. susianus Boissier subsp. sericeus Tietz is reduced to synonymy of A. chalaranthus Boissier & Haussknecht.
10.2307/3391644|A new name is proposed for Erica excelsa (Alm & T. C. E. Fries) Beentje, which is a later homonym of E. excelsa Tausch. In addition, a new combination in Erica based on Philippia mafiensis Engler is proposed.
40300918|Se describe una nueva especie de Opuntia (L.) Miller (Cactaceae), endmica de la regin de Cuicatln, estado de Oaxaca, Mxico. Frutos rojoviolaceos con espinas largas, funiculos semi-secos de paredes comestibles que no se desprenden de los cladodios cuando maduran, no son comidos por pjaros debido a su sabor agridulce (conocidos como xoconostles o xoco-tunas). Se compara con tres especies simpatricas descritas con anterioridad: O. tehuacana S. Arias & U. Guzmn, O. parviclada S. Arias & Gama y O. olmeca Joel Prez, J. Reyes & F. Brachet. Opuntia chiangiana Scheinvar & Manzanero es ubicada en la serie Heliabravoanae Scheinvar con base en sus frutos acidos. /// A new species of Opuntia (L.) Miller (Cactaceae), endemic to the region of Cuicatlan in the state of Oaxaca, Mexico, is described. The fruits are red-violet with long spines, funiculi that are almost dry, and fruit walls that are edible and do not fall off when mature. However, birds have not been observed to eat the fruits of this sweet-acidic cactus pear (known as xoconostle or xoco-tuna). The new species is compared to three sympatric species formerly described: O. tehuacana S. Arias & U. Guzman, O. parviclada S. Arias & Gama, and O. olmeca Joel Perez, J. Reyes & F. Brachet. Opuntia chiangiana Scheinvar & Manzanero is assigned to series Heliabravoanae Scheinvar on the basis of its acidic fruits.
10.2307/3391752|Three new subspecific combinations are proposed in the genus Kobresia: K. myosuroides (Villars) Fiori subsp. bistaminata (W. Z. Di & M. J. Zhong) S. R. Zhang, K. royleana (Nees) Boeckeler subsp. minshanica (Wang & Tang ex Y. C. Yang) S. R. Zhang, and K. setschwanensis Handel-Mazzetti subsp. squamaeformis (Y. C. Yang) S. R. Zhang. Additionally, K. kashgarica Dickor is treated as a synonym of K. myosuroides subsp. bistaminata and K. menyuanica Y. C. Yang as a synonym of K. royleana subsp. minshanica.
20406083|Ten new species of Scutellaria L. (Lamiaceae) from Mesoamerica, Scutellaria albituba A. Pool, S. aurantiaca A. Pool, S. lactea A. Pool, S. molinarum A. Pool, S. multiramosa A. Pool, S. oblongifolia A. Pool, S. saslayensis A. Pool, S. talamancana A. Pool, S. tucurriquensis. A. Pool, and S. tutensis A. Pool, are described and their relationships with allied species are discussed. Scutellaria oblongifolia (Panama), and S. albituba, S. lactea, and S. talamancana (Costa Rica) belong to section Uliginosae (Epling) Epling and are herbs with small, pallid flowers, the corolla tubes with galeas not exceeding 20 mm in length. Scutellaria molinarum (Honduras and Guatemala), in section Speciosae (Epling) Epling, is a large herb to 1 m with large reddish purple flowers, the corolla tubes with galea to 26mm in length. The five remaining new species are members of section Cardinales Epling. Scutellaria multiramosa (Panama) is a shrub with reddish violet medium-sized flowers, the corolla tubes with galeas 21-27 mm in length, S. tutensis (Panama) is a suffruticose herb with large pale lavender flowers, the corolla tubes with galeas to 28 mm in lenght, S. saslayensis (Nicaragua) and S. tucurriquensis (Costa Rica) are tall herbs, over 0.5 m tall, with medium to large red flowers, the corolla tubes with galeas 27-29 mm and 21-23 mm, respectively, and S. aurantiaca (Honduras) is a tall herb exceeding 0.4 m with orange flowers, the corolla tubes with galeas ca. 32mm.
10.2307/3393194|During preparation of the account of Eriocaulaceae for the Flora of China, volume 24, it was noticed that one species, Eriocaulon bilobatum W. L. Ma, described from China in 1991, is illegitimately named, being a later homonym of E. bilobatum Morong, which was described from Mexico in 1892. The new name (nomen novum) E. kunmingense Z. X. Zhang was proposed in 1999, but the pagination of the entire paper in which the replaced name was published was cited, rather than the pages of the protologue only, so the new name is invalid. Therefore, E. kunmingense is validated here.
10.2307/3391547|A new species of Passiflora subg. Tacsonia is described from the Andes of southern Ecuador. Passiflora brachyantha is placed in section Bracteogama, where it most closely resembles another short-flowered species, P. glaberrima, which is endemic to Peru.
20406053|Brodiaea sierrae (Themidaceae), a new diploid species from the Sierra Nevada foothills of California, U.S.A., is described and illustrated. Morphologically, it is most similar to the tetraploid B. leptandra, from which it differs by having larger flowers, with perianth lobes up to 40 mm long (vs. 20-30 mm). The new species is also morphologically similar to B. californica but differs by the staminode morphology and by the lack of anther appendages. Although morphology and other data support a close relationship between the three species, they are geographically and edaphically disjunct in northern California.
10.2307/3392995|During the preparation of the account of the Crassulaceae for the Flora of China, Volume 8, it was decided that Phedimus Rafinesque should be separated from Sedum L. It is therefore necessary to publish new combinations in Phedimus for three varieties and one species previously recognized in Sedum: P. aizoon (L.) 't Hart var. latifolius (Maximowicz) H. Ohba, K. T. Fu & B. M. Bartholomew, comb. nov., P. aizoon var. scabrus (Maximowicz) H. Ohba, K. T. Fu & B. M. Bartholomew, comb. nov., P. aizoon var. yamatutae (Kitagawa) H. Ohba, K. T. Fu & B. M. Bartholomew, comb. nov., and P. hsinganicus (Y. C. Chu ex T. N. Liou) H. Ohba, K. T. Fu & B. M. Bartholomew, comb. nov. One subgeneric name, Phedimus subg. Aizoon (L. K. A. Koch ex Schnland) H. Ohba & Turland, is validated; it was first proposed by 't Hart but with an erroneous (and uncorrectable) basionym citation. The name Sedum aizoon L. var. scabrum Maximowicz is lectotypified.
10.2307/3391856|Se describe e ilustra a Pachycereus tepamo (Cactaceae, Cactoideae, Pachycereeae), una especie nueva de la cuenca baja del Ro Balsas, en el estado de Michoacn, Mxico. Se presentan datos sobre su hbitat, distribucin geogrfica y usos locales. Tambin se compara esta especie a partir de caracteres morfolgicos con P. grandis, P. pecten-aboriginum y P. weberi, consideradas las especies ms relacionadas. /// Pachycereus tepamo (Cactaceae, Cactoideae, Pachycereeae), a new species from the lower basin of the Balsas River, in the state of Michoacn, Mexico, is described and illustrated. Information concerning its habitat, geographic distribution, and uses is also presented. In addition, morphological characters are used to compare this species with P. grandis, P. pecten-aboriginum, and P. weberi, its closest allied species.
10.2307/3391436|Porotrichum tenuinerve sp. nov. differs from other species in the genus by its gonioautoicous condition and short, frequently double costae. A key to the species of Porotrichum in Central America is given, which incorporates synonymy proposed by Sastre-de Jess and Smith. Porotrichum mutabile Hampe, P. insularum Mitten, and P. plagiorhynchum Renauld & Cardot are tentatively placed in the synonymy of Porotrichum longirostre (Hooker) Mitten; Homaliodendron piniforme (Bridel) Enroth is reported for the first time from Central America (Panama).
10.2307/3393264|Delphinium lihengianum Q. E. Yang & Y. Luo, a new species of the Ranunculaceae from Yadong County, Xizang, is described and illustrated. This new species is similar to D. caeruleum Jacquemont, especially in the indumentum of the stem and pedicels and in the leaf divisions, but differs in having the staminodes bifid to the middle and three carpels.
41811665|Jacquemontia macrocalyx Buril (Convolvulaceae) is described from Morro do Chapu, Cadeia do Espinhao, Bahia, Brazil. The new species is related to J. heterantha (Nees & Mart.) Hallier f., but is distinguished by its fruticose habit and larger sepals. Its conservation status is assessed as Endangered (EN), according to IUCN Red List criteria. Jacquemontia macrocalyx Buril (Convolvulaceae)  descrita como endmica do Parque Estadual de Morro do Chapu, Cadeia do Espinhao, Bahia, Brasil. A nova espcie  similar a J. heterantha (Nees & Mart.) Hallier f., mas se distingue pelo hbito arbustivo e spalas maiores. O seu status de conservao  considerado como EN ou em risco de extino, de acordo com os critrios da IUCN.
20406126|A new combination in Microgramma C. Presl (Pteridophyta--Polypodiaceae) is proposed instead of M. fuscopunctata (Hooker) Vareschi, after the analysis of the type of Polypodium dictyophyllum Kunze ex Mettenius. Through the study of additional specimens and recent bibliography, the distributional pattern of this taxon for tropical America is specified. /// Se propone una nueva combinacin en Microgramma C. Presl (Pteridophyta--Polypodiaceae), sobre la base de Polypodium dictyophyllum Kunze ex Mettenius, en lugar de M. fuscopunctata (Hooker) Vareschi, despus de analizar el tipo del primer taxn nombrado. Estudiando otros especimenes y consultando bibliografa reciente, se precisa el rea de distribucin de esta especie en Amrica tropical.
10.2307/3392148|No valid type designation for Batis maritima L. currently exists. A neotype for this name is therefore selected here to fix the application of the name.
10.2307/3391467|In order to make names available for use in the Flora of China, the following combinations are made: Panzerina lanata var. alaschanica (L. Kuprianaov) H. W. Li, Panzerina lanata var. albescens (L. Kuprianova) H. W. Li, Panzerina lanata var. argyracea (L. Kuprianova) H. W. Li, and Panzerina lanata var. parviflora (C. Y. Wu & H. W. Li) H. W. Li.
23259422|A new species of Pyrrosia Mirb. (Polypodiaceae) with coenosori, which is found in the province Antsiranana in Madagascar, is described as P. avaratra Rakotondr. & Hovenkamp, with keys and an illustration.
3393434|A new species of Paronychia, P. revoluta, from the state of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil, is described and illustrated. This species is closely related to P. camphorosmoides, distinguished from it by linear-subulate leaves with a revolute margin and prominent midribs. It is also allied to P. fasciculata, from which it differs in the lanceolate, acuminate, fimbriate, and whitish stipules, and linear-subulate leaves.
10.2307/3393021|We describe a distinctive subspecies of Galvezia leucantha from the island of Santiago (San Salvador), Galapagos, Ecuador. The new subspecies, Galvezia leucantha subsp. porphyrantha Tye & H. Jger, is distinguished principally by its purple flowers and lack of pubescence. All three subspecies, and the species as a whole, have small and in some cases declining populations restricted to eroded scoria cliffs, and are considered Critically Endangered (CR) by IUCN criteria. /// Describimos una subespecie distintiva de Galvezia leucantha de la Isla Santiago (San Salvador), Galpagos, Ecuador. La nueva subespecie, Galvezia leucantha subsp. porphyrantha Tye & H. Jger, se distingue principalmente por sus flores purpreas y su falta de pubescencia. Las tres subespecies, y la especie en s, tienen poblaciones pequeas, en ciertos casos en declinacin, restringidas a acantilados de escoria erosionados, y se consideran En Peligro Crtico de Extincin (CR) segn los criterios de la UICN.
20406051|A new species of Camellia (Theaceae) endemic to the Dalat Plateau in southern Vietnam is described and illustrated: Camellia dongnaiensis. The newly described species has large pendulous, narrowly obovate leaves; two whorled, waxy, pendulous flowers exhibiting emarginate, graduated yellow-apricot to intensely pink petals; peduncles distinctly wider at the proximal end; a compound style consisting of six parts that are fused at the base for one third of their length; persistent bracteoles; and a superior five-chambered ovary. The morphological evidence supports taxonomic placement in Camellia sect. Piquetia (Pierre) Sealy.
10.2307/3391786|Twisselmannia californica, a new genus and species from Kings County, California, is described and illustrated. Its relationships to other mustard genera are discussed.
27765228|The green algal genus Basicladia W. E. Hoffman & Tilden suggested for synonymy in Cladophora Ktz. by van den Hoek is reconfirmed as a genus based on the distinct basal system and the primarily epizoic habit associated with freshwater turtles. Previously assigned to Cladophora sect. Basicladia (W. E. Hoffmann & Tilden) C. Hoek, C. koslerae C. Hoek (type: France) and C. okamurae (S. Ueda) C. Hoek (type: Japan) transfer to Basicladia, based on morphology and molecular evidence. The two new combinations B. kosterae (C. Hoek) Garbary and B. okamurae (S. Ueda) Carbary bring the number of species in Basicladia to seven.
10.2307/3393529|Recent molecular studies, combined with critical evaluation of morphology, support a revision of the generic placement of five species of Sisymbrium (Brassicaceae). Sisymbrium aculeolatum and S. afghanicum (formerly in Neotorularia) and S. linifolium (formerly in Schoenocrambe) should be maintained in Sisymbrium. A new name, Erucastrum austroafricanum, is proposed to accommodate the transfer of S. thellungii to Erucastrum and to avoid the creation of a latter homonym. A new combination, E. supinum, is proposed to transfer S. supinum to Erucastrum.
10.2307/3392182|In advance of treatment in the Flora of Australia and other publications, four new taxa of Melaleuca are described and illustrated: M. cajuputi subsp. platyphylla Barlow, M. clarksonii Barlow, M. fluviatilis Barlow, and M. stipitata Craven; and two new combinations are made: M. cajuputi subsp. cumingiana (Turczaninow) Barlow and M. squamophloia (Byrnes) Craven.
10.2307/3392237|Polycarpon coquimbense Gereau & Marticorena (Caryophyllaceae) is described from central Chile, a key to and a brief conspectus of the South American species of Polycarpon are provided, and P. australis Britton is reduced to synonymy under P. suffruticosum Grisebach. /// Se presentan la descripcin de Polycarpon coquimbense Gereau & Marticorena (Caryophyllaceae) proveniente de Chile central, una clave y una sinopsis de las especies sudamericanas de Polycarpon; y P. australis Britton est ubicado en la sinonimia de P. suffruticosum Grisebach.
20406067|Taxonomic revision of the populations belonging to the Anthyllis hermanniae L. species complex (Fabaceae, Faboideae) of the Mediterranean flora is given. Two distinct species are recognized: A. hystrix (Willkomm ex Barcel) Cardona, Contandriopoulos & Sierra, restricted to Minorca (Balearic Islands), and A. hermanniae, widespread in the central and eastern Mediterranean area. Within A. hermanniae, seven new subspecies are recognized: subspecies hermanniae (northeastern Mediterranean area), subspecies melitensis (Maltese Archipelago, Malta), subspecies sicula (Italy, Sicily), subspecies brutia (Italy, Calabria), subspecies japygica (Italy, Apulia), subspecies ichnusae (Italy, Sardinia), and subspecies corsica (France, Corsica). Each of these new taxa is described and illustrated. A key of the surveyed taxa is provided.
23259343|A total of 13 new species of Viscaceae are described and illustrated for the genera Dendrophthora Eichler and Phoradendron Nutt. Dendrophthora erythrantha Kuijt is established from La Paz, Bolivia; P. palandensis is described from Zamora-Chinchipe, Ecuador. Eight species are newly described from Peru: five from Cajamarca (D. cryptantha Kuijt, D. microphylla Kuijt, D. subsessilis Kuijt, P. alatum Kuijt, and P. camposii Kuijt); two from Amazonas (D. verrucosa Kuijt and P. nickrentianum Kuijt); and one from Chachapoyas (P. prolongatum Kuijt). Three species are described from Venezuela: one from Carabobo (P. concinnum Kuijt) and two from Miranda (D. mirandensis Kuijt and P. mirandensis Kuijt).
3393353|A new species of Beilschmiedia, previously recognized by Kostermans but never published, is described as B. oligantha and illustrated. This new species differs from the other Bornean Beilschmiedia species in the combination of the following characters: long erect trichomes on twigs, six to ten pairs of secondary leaf veins, relatively large pale red flowers, and stamens with short pubescent filaments.
3393503|Ilex Xaquipernyi J. B. Gable ex Whittemore (Ilex aquifolium x I. pernyi), a name that has been commonly used in the horticultural literature and the nursery trade for some 60 years, is validated here. It is known only from artificial crosses.
40856273|TWO new species of Ocotea Aubl. (Lauraceae) from the restinga of Brazil are described and illustrated. Ocotea arenicola L. C. S. Assis & Mello-Silva and ramosissima L. C. S. Assis & Mello-Silva are discovered from Esprito Santo and Bahia states, respectively. Their diagnostic features are indicated, and their relationships to other Ocotea species are discussed. Duas espcies novas de Ocotea Aubl. (Lauraceae) da restinga do Brasil so descritas e ilustradas. Ocotea arenicola L. C. S. Assis & Mello-Silva e ramosissima L. C. S. Assis & Mello-Silva so respectivamente descobertas nos Estados do Esprito Santo e Bahia. Suas caractersticas diagnsticas so indicadas e suas relaes com outras espcies de Ocotea so discutidas.
20406280|Anticipating the full revision of the New World genus Orthosia Decaisne (Asclepiadeae, Orthosiinae), the following new combinations for 14 taxa formerly placed in Amphistelma Grisebach, Cynanchum L., Metastelma R. Brown, Tassadia Decaisne, and Vincetoxicum Wolf are provided: Orthosia bonplandiana (Roemer & Schultes) Liede & Meve, O. calycina (Schlechter) Liede & Meve, O. cardozoi (Morillo) Liede & Meve, O. cassythoides (Suessenguth) Liede & Meve, O. ellemannii (Morillo) Liede & Meve, O. guilleminiana (Decaisne) Liede & Meve, O. henriqueana (Silveira) Liede & Meve, O. meridensis (Morillo) Liede & Meve, O. parviflora (E. Fournier) Liede & Meve, O. pearcei (Rusby) Liede & Meve, O. pubescens (Greenman) Liede & Meve, O. scoparia (Nuttall) Liede & Meve, O. selloana (E. Fournier) Liede & Meve, and O. stannardii (Morillo) Liede & Meve. Full and comprehensive synonymies for O. scoparia and O. guilleminiana are given to preclude the confusing use of many different names for these widely distributed species. Lectotypification for 14 taxa is presented: Amphistelma ephedroides Grisebach, A. filiforme Grisebach, A. riedelii E. Fournier, A. selloanum E. Fournier, Astephanus pubescens Greenman, Cynanchum bonplandianum Roemer & Schultes, C. trilobulatum Lillo, Metastelma angustifolium Turczaninow, M. atrorubens Schlechter, M. calycinum Schlechter, M. fawcettii Schlechter, M. peruvianum Schlechter, M. rariflorum Schlechter, and M. retinaculatum Schlechter. Orthosia woodii Meve & Liede, a new endemic species from Bolivia, is described and illustrated.
27765229|The study of collections from the RB herbarium in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, allows the lectotypification of three names in the Asteraceae: Baccharis hoehneana Teodoro, B. paulopolitana Teodoro & W. Hoehne, and B. wilsoniana Teodoro. Additionally, the name B. lymanii G. M. Barroso ex G. Heiden is validated by the indication of a holotype.
41811688|A new fern species, Polystichum normale Ching ex P. S. Wang & Li Bing Zhang (Dryopteridaceae), is described from Guizhou and illustrated for section Crucifilix Tagawa. Distributed in southern Chongqing, northeastern and southeastern Guizhou, and northwestern Hunan, China, the new species is morphologically similar to P. tripteron (Kunze) C. Presl and P. hancockii (Hance) Diels. Polystichum normale has toothed and oblong or almost rectangular pinnae with an acute apex. In contrast, P. tripteron has coarsely serrate and falcate-lanceolate pinnae with an acuminate apex. While P. normale has sori close to the pinna margins, indusia 0.6-0.8 mm in diameter, and a perispore with an irregularly perforate sculpture, P. hancockii has sori closer to the costa, indusia 0.3-0.4 mm in diameter, and a perispore with reticulate sculpture. It is considered Vulnerable (VU), based on IUCN Red List criteria.
20406223|The newly circumscribed dioecious group (sensu Razafimandimbison et al.) of tribe Vanguerieae in the subfamily Ixoroideae (Rubiaceae) comprises over 200 species classified in four morphologically distinct genera: Cyclophyllum Hooker f., Peponidium (Baillon) Arnes, Pyrostria Commerson ex Jussieu, and one new genus affined to species of Canthium subg. Bullockia Bridson. Here, we present a total of 37 new combinations, 20 of which are in Peponidium: P. alleizettei (Dubard & Dop) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. andringitrense (Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. ankaranense (Arnes ex Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. anoveanum (Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. arenesianum (Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. blepharodon (Arnes ex Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. boinense (Arnes ex Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. bosseri (Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. buxifolium (Baker) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer (lectotypified here), P. cystiporon (Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. decaryi (Homolle ex Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. humbertianum (Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. latiflorum (Homolle ex Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. mandrarense (Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. marojejyense (Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. sahafaryense (Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. subevenium (K. Schumann) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. tamatavense (Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. venulosum (Boivin ex Baillon) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, and P. viguieri (Homolle ex Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer. The other 17 new combinations are in Pyrostria: P. ambongensis (Homolle ex Arnes) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. ampijoroensis (Arnes) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. ankaranensis (Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. antsalovensis (Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. asosa (Arnes) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. capuronii (Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. ixorifolia (Homolle ex Arnes) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. longiflora (Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. neriifolia (Homolle ex Arnes) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. oleifolia (Homolle ex Arnes) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. perrieri (Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. revoluta (Balfour f.) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. richardiae (Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. sambavensis (Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. suarezensis (Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, P. tulearensis (Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, and P. verdcourtii (Cavaco) Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer. Finally, three new names, Peponidium sakalavense Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, Pyrostria antsirananensis Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, and Pyrostria louvelii Razafimandimbison, Lantz & B. Bremer, are published here.
10.2307/3393014|Three new species of Siparuna (Siparunaceae) are described, illustrated, and placed in a phylogenetic context: S. gentryana from western Ecuador and adjacent Colombia, S. lozaniana from the western Andes in Colombia, and S. vasqueziana from Amazonian Peru. In addition, Siparuna calantha from the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta, originally described by Janet Perkins as a variety of a Mexican entity, is raised to species rank because its broader leaves and more numerous carpels readily distinguish it from its apparent closest relative, a species from the western Colombian Andes. Each of the species is known from several collections, which allowed the secure matching of sexual morphs in the three that are dioecious.
10.2307/3393222|Descriptions and illustrations are presented for the new species Coussarea antioquiana from northwestern Colombia, C. brevipedunculata from Panama, C. duplex from eastern Costa Rica, C. grandifructa from southwestern Costa Rica, and C. izabalensis from Guatemala, and for the new subspecies C. loftonii (Dwyer & M. V. Hayden) Dwyer subsp. occidentalis from southern Costa Rica. This third subspecies of C. loftonii comprises the westernmost populations of this morphologically variable species. /// Aqu se describen y se ilustran las especies nuevas Coussarea antioquiana del noroeste de Colombia, C. brevipedunculata de Panam, C. duplex del este de Costa Rica, C. grandifructa del sur de Costa Rica y C. izabalensis de Guatemala, adems la subespecie nueva C. loftonii (Dwyer & M. V. Hayden) Dwyer subsp. occidentalis del sur de Costa Rica. Esta tercera subespecie de C. loftonii incluye las poblaciones ms occidentales de esta especie morfologicamente variable.
40300936|A new genus, Neocupressus de Laubenfels, is erected for the New World cypresses (Cupressaceae) to separate them from Callitropsis Oersted, where they have recently been placed. This is based on several sharp morphological distinctions. A new hybrid nothogenus, XNeocupropsis de Laubenfels, is also erected to accommodate hybrid species from various species of Neocupressus and Callitropsis. The new combinations are: Neocupressus arizonica (Greene) de Laubenfels, N. arizonica var. glabra (Sudworth) de Laubenfels, N. arizonica var. nevadensis (Abrams) de Laubenfels, N. arizonica var. montana (Wiggins) de Laubenfels, N. bakeri (Jepson) de Laubenfels, N. goveniana (Gordon) de Laubenfels, N. goveniana var. abramsiana (C. B. Wolf) de Laubenfels, N. goveniana var. pygmaea (Lemmon) de Laubenfels, N. guadalupensis (S. Watson) de Laubenfels, N. guadalupensis var. forbesii (Jepson) de Laubenfels, N. lusitanica (Miller) de Laubenfels, N. lusitanica var. lindleyi (Klotzsch in Endlicher) de Laubenfels, N. macnabiana (A. Murray bis) de Laubenfels, N. macrocarpa (Hartweg) de Laubenfels, N. sargentii (Jepson) de Laubenfels, XNeocupropsis leylandii (A. B. Jackson & Dallimore) de Laubenfels, XN. notabilis (A. F. Mitchell) de Laubenfels, and XN. ovensii (A. F. Mitchell) de Laubenfels. A lectotype is selected for N. lusitanica var. lindleyi.
40960836|A new monotypic genus, Oncaglossum Sutor, endemic to central Mexico, is described based on Cynoglossum pringlei Greenm. from the state of Mexico and belongs within the tribe Cynoglosseae of the Boraginaceae. The new genus is related to Cynoglossum L. subg. Eleutherostylum (Brand) Riedl and can be distinguished from the North American species currently classified in Cynoglossum by its calyx with imbricate, colored, and broadly ovate sepals, the corolla lobes reduced to narrow strips, anthers on short filaments inserted on the corolla margin, the stigma in the form of a lenticular disc, and tricolporate pollen grains with an additional aperture in their polar region.
20406027|A terrestrial orchid, Palmorchis caxiuanensis, is described from the Amazonian rain forest of Par State, northern Brazil. Flowers and habit are illustrated. This species is clearly allied to Palmorchis sobralioides, P. guianensis, and P. duckei, but is distinguished by the length of the petiole, lip, and column. /// Uma orqudea terrestre, Palmorchis caxiuanensis,  descrita para Amaznia, estado do Par, Norte do Brasil. Flores e hbito so ilustrados. Esta espcie  prxima de Palmorchis sobralioides, P. guianensis e P. Duckei, diferindo basicamente pelo comprimento do pecolo, labelo e coluna.
10.2307/3392978|The status of Nasturtium tibeticum is discussed, and the new combination Dontostemon tibeticus is proposed. Accounts of N. tibeticum in some Chinese floras are based on plants of the new species Phaeonychium fengii. The distinguishing characters of Nasturtium, Dontostemon, and Phaeonychium are presented.
40960831|New combinations are proposed for four names in Chinese Adenophora Fisch. (Campanulaceae), with three names also changing in rank: A. capillaris Hemsl. subsp. paniculata (Nannf.) D. Y. Hong & S. Ge, A. petiolata Pax & K. Hoffm. subsp. huadungemsis (D. Y. Hong) D. Y. Hong & S. Ge. A. petiolata subsp. hunanensis (Nannf.) D. Y. Hong & S. Ge, and A. stricta Miq. subsp. aurita (Franch.) D. Y. Hong & S. Ge. Lectotypes are designated for the following names: A. capillaris, A. capillaris subsp. leptosepala (Diels) D. Y. Hong [ A. leptosepala Diels], A. liliifolioides Pax & K. Hoffm., A. polyantha Nakai, and A. chanetii (H. Lv.) D. F. Chamb. [ Campanula chanetii H. Lv.].
10.2307/3393101|While preparing a monographic study of Eleutherococcus, we discovered the three new taxa, E. brachypus var. omeiensis, E. huangshanensis, and E. pseudosetulosus, described here. In addition, three new combinations, E. divaricatus var. chiisanensis, E. pilosulus, and E. pubescens, are proposed.
10.2307/3391843|On the basis of pollen morphology and floral characters, Ipomoea caloxantha is transferred to Merremia.
10.2307/3391385|Galaxia fenestralis is new a species from central interior Namaqualand, Cape Province, South Africa. Apparently most closely related to another Namaqualand endemic, G. kamiesmontana Goldblatt, G. fenestralis is distinguished by its terete, succulent leaves, and small light pink to mauve or whitish flowers with a yellow center and narrowly clawed tepals. It grows on exposed granite outcrops in virtually no soil, and flowers early in the rainy season, in June and July, a few weeks after the first of the season's rains have fallen.
40856302|Croton rufolepidotus Caruzo & Riina (Euphorbiaceae s. str.), a new species from Colombia, is here described and illustrated. The new species is endemic to an area of lowland secondary forests in Antioquia. Morphological characters indicate that this species belongs to Croton sect. Cleodora (Klotzsch) Baill. due to its arborescent habit, petiolar glands, 15 to 25 stamens, as well as the pistillate flowers with imbricate sepals and multifid styles.
10.2307/3393097|The new species Aureliana angustifolia (Solanaceae) from a secondary forest of Juiz de Fora, in southeastern Brazil, is described. It is distinguished by its narrowly lanceolate leaves, by the brief and triangular calyx lobes, and by the subglobose fruits with a thin pericarp. The style length dimorphism with the lack of the stigmatic papillae on the short style suggests that it is an andromonoecious species.
3393396|A monographic revision of Alloplectus (Gesneriaceae) has revealed four species new to science from Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru. These species are described here and include A. carpishensis from Peru, A. inflatus from Colombia, A. serpens from Colombia and Ecuador, and A. oblongicalyx from Colombia and Ecuador.
23018481|A new species of Peperomia Ruiz & Pav., P. rivulamans Silverst. (Piperacaeae), is described from the Cauca Valley, Colombia. The new species is saxicolous and inhabits forested creek banks. It differs from all other known peltate-leaved species of Peperomia in the following combination of characters: rhizome creeping, with internodes very short (less than 1 cm); petioles very long (to 22 cm); leaves ovate, white on abaxial surface; inflorescences simple (not paniculate) and axillary; floral bracts mucronate, butterfly-shaped, imbricate at their corners, forming a roof above the fertile rachis, with openings for the ovary and anthers, each opening surrounded by four bracts; ovary turbinate, stigma bifid, apical; and fruits sessile, subclavate, not rostrate. Based on its morphology, the new species is placed in Peperomia subg. Tildenia Miq., but a published study of chloroplast DNA has shown that subgenus Tildenia is polyphyletic. Una nueva especie de Peperomia Ruiz & Pav., P. rivulamans Silverst. (Piperaceae), se describe del valle geogrfico del ro Cauca, Colombia. Es saxcola, y se encuentra en bosque en las orillas de quebradas. Difiere de todas las otras especies conocidas de Peperomia que presentan hojas peltadas en la siguiente combinacin de caracteres: rizoma rastrero, con entrenudos muy cortos (menos de 1 cm); pecolos muy largos (hasta 22 cm); hojas ovadas, blancas en la superficie abaxial; inflorescencias simples (no paniculadas) y axilares; brcteas florales mucronadas, de forma de mariposa, traslapndose en sus ngulos, formando un techo sobre el raquis frtil, con aberturas para el ovario y las anteras, cada abertura rodeada por cuatro brcteas; ovario turbinado, estigma bfido, apical; y frutos ssiles, subclavados, no rostrados. Con base en su morfologa, la nueva especie se coloca en Peperomia subg. Tildenia Miq., pero un estudio publicado de DNA de cloroplasto ha mostrado que el subgnero Tildenia es polifiltica.
10.2307/3393013|Recent DNA studies support the recognition of four new combinations for species originally assigned to Scirpus. Trichophorum rigidum has a single pseudolateral spikelet and lacks perianth segments. Scirpoides burkei has a woody rhizome, compact globose inflorescences, and spirally arranged glumes and lacks perianth segments. Ficinia trollii is a robust species lacking perianth segments. Ficinia nodosa has a woody rhizome and a gynophore.
10.2307/3392147|Characteristics of Begonia sect. Weilbachia (Klotzsch & Oersted) A. DC. (Begoniaceae) are discussed, and four new species in the section, B. almedana, B. hondurensis, B. faustinoi, and B. turrialbae, are described, illustrated, and compared with other species in the section.
10.2307/3391827|Peltostigma parviflorum Q. Jimnez & Gereau is reduced to synonymy under P. guatemalense (Standley & Steyermark) Gereau, comb. nov., based on Galipea guatemalensis Standley & Steyermark.
10.2307/3393177|Moraea melanops, M. deltoidea, M. vespertina, and M. vigilans are new species of the southern African genus Moraea (ca. 195 species), of subfamily Iridoideae of the Iridaceae. Moraea vespertina belongs to subgenus Visciramosa, now comprising six species. It has the characteristic branched stems, viscous secretion on the nodes and internodes, and free, connivent anthers of the subgenus, but is distinctive in its white flowers that open for a few hours in the late afternoon, and basal fan of four to six, firm-textured leaves. Moraea deltoidea, from the Klein River Mountains in Western Cape Province, and M. vigilans, from the northern high Drakensberg of Free State and KwaZulu-Natal, belong in subgenus Vieusseuxia and are allied to the M. unguiculata complex of the subgenus. Moraea deltoidea has vestigial style branches and inner tepals that are more or less entire to obscurely three-lobed. Moraea melanops is the eighth species of section Galaxia series Eurystigma, one of two series of the exclusively western southern African section of 16 species distributed from the Bredasdorp District of Western Cape Province to northern Namaqualand in Northern Cape Province. Vegetatively resembling other Western Cape species, including M. barnardiella and M. versicolor, M. melanops can be distinguished by its purple to lilac perianth with a dark purple-black center, and stamens partly to entirely free; like M. barnardiella it has laxly spreading tepals that do not form a floral cup.
10.2307/3392255|Paspalum morichalense is described, illustrated, and compared to related species of the group Dissecta. It occurs in Venezuela, Surinam, Brazil, and Bolivia. Its confusion with Paspalum commutatum Nees and Paspalum lacustre Chase ex Swallen is discussed.
10.2307/3392159|Two new species of Velloziaceae, Vellozia auriculata and V. gigantea, from Espinhao Range, Minas Gerais, Brazil, are described. Both are characterized by a large dracenoid habit. Vellozia auriculata has large tepal appendages and is endemic to the Ambrsio Range, northeast of the Diamantina plateau. It reproduces in an unusual way, with conspicuous vegetative propagation by lodging branches. Vellozia gigantea may attain a height of up to 6 m, being the largest species of Vellozia so far described. Its one known population is located within the limits of the National Park of Serra do Cip. Morphological and anatomical descriptions as well as illustrations of both species are presented. Comments are made on their geographic distribution and putative taxonomic relationships. A key to the accepted species with dracenoid habit related to Vellozia auriculata and V. gigantea, and comments on the delimitation of this group are also presented.
10.2307/3392145|A new species, Gibsoniothamnus parvifolius, is described based on disjunct populations from Costa Rica and western Panama. The species is distinguished by its relatively small, acuminate leaves, few-flowered inflorescences, and its relatively small, purplish flowers borne on short pedicels.
10.2307/3391567|Revision of the Ochnaceae for Flora Mesoamericana brought to light eight new species of Ouratea. These species are described here: O. osaensis and O. rinconensis from the Rincn de Osa area of Costa Rica, and O. jefensis, O. knappiae, O. darienensis, O. stenobasis, O. sulcatinervia, and O. tristis from Panama.
10.2307/3393162|During a revision of Lantana (Verbenaceae), an undescribed species was discovered from Brazil. Lippia magentea, which is named for its corolla color, is a hirsute shrub from Bahia and Minas Gerais. Inflorescences in Lippia magentea do not exceed the leaves, and its fruits have two pyrenes.
3393487|We describe Bourreria grayumii (Ehretiaceae) as new from Costa Rica, near the Nicaraguan border. It is illustrated, and a distribution map is provided. The new species may be closely related to Bourreria huanita, as both share schizocarpous fruits, an unusual and specialized character in Bourreria.
10.2307/3391491|The new combination Psiguria dunlapii is made, and a key to the three Mesoamerican species of Psiguria is given.
40300870|Two new dioecious species of Symplocos Jacquin from southern Brazil are described and illustrated. Both species belong to section Barberina (Vellozo) A. DC. of subgenus Symplocos. Symplocos bidana Aranha is characterized by its cymose or racemose inflorescences (9.5-) 11-34 mm long, corolla with five or six lobes 3.7-4.9 mm long, and fruits (10-) 13-20 X 5-10 mm with the calyx lobes covering the fruiting disc. Symplocos incrassata Aranha is characterized by its reduced cymes, bracts caducous in fruit, and fruits 12-18 X (5-) 6-8 mm. In addition, both species have thick endocarps (0.8-1.2 mm), a notable character among the Brazilian species of section Barberina /// Duas novas especies dioicas de Symplocos Jacquin do sul do Brazil sao descritas e ilustradas, do subgenero Symplocos, sec, ao Barberina (Vellozo) A. DC. Symplocos bidana Aranha e reconhecida por sua inflorescencia cimosa ou racemosa (9.5) 11 34 mm compr., corola com 5 a 6 lobos com 3.7-4.9 mm compr., e frutos (10-) 13-20 X 5-10 mm com lobos do calice cobrindo o disco no fruto. Symplocos incrassata Aranha  reconhecida por suas cimeiras reduzidas (47 mm compr.), brcteas caducas no fruto, e fruto 1218 X (5-) 6-8 mm. Alm disso, as novas espcies sao distintas pela espessura de seus endocarpos, 0.8-1.2 mm, raro entre as espcies brasileiras de Barberina.
10.2307/3391924|The new combination Alibertia utleyorum (Dwyer) C. M. Taylor is made, and the new species Alibertia premontana, Pentagonia involucrata, Remijia uniflora, and Rudgea sanblasensis are described and illustrated.
10.2307/3393230|Nanuza almeidae Alves and N. luetzelburgii Alves are described as new species of the previously monotypic Nanuza L. B. Smith & Ayensu (Velloziaceae). Nanuza almeidae is distinguished from Nanuza plicata and N. luetzelburgii mainly by leaf blades basally narrowed into a pseudopetiole, linear-lanceolate tepals, triangular filaments with a flattened base, and presence of labdane-type diterpenes. Nanuza luetzelburgii is distinguished from both other species by rounded edges on the trigonous caudex, lamina with furrows with abundant, sturdy hairs, vestigial adaxial furrows, and serrulate sheath margins, lacking the filaments typical of the closely related N. plicata and N. almeidae, and by presence of heptadecenic acid. Xerophytolic acid was found in Nanuza plicata but not in both new species. /// Nanuza almeidae Alves e N. luetzelburgii Alves so descritas como espcies novas do gnero at ento considerado monotpico, com apenas Nanuza plicata (Martius) L. B. Smith & Ayensu (Velloziaceae). Nanuza almeidae se distingue de Nanuza plicata e N. luetzelburgii pelas tpalas linear-lanceoladas, limbo foliar na base estreitado em pseudopecolo, mais largo e curto, adaxialmente glabrescente, filetes triangulares com base achatada e pela presena de diterpenos do tipo labdano. Nanuza luetzelburgii se distingue de N. plicata e N. almeidae pelas margens arredondadas do caudex trgono, preenchimento dos sulcos no limbo por abundantes plos rgidos, sulcos vestigiais na face adaxial, bainhas foliares com margens serreadas, sem as cerdas caractersticas de N. plicata e N. almeidae, bem como pela presena de cido heptadecnico. Nanuza plicata se distingue das espcies novas pela presena de cido xerofitlico.
10.2307/3391544|In anticipation of the upcoming revision of the Jepson Manual of the Flowering Plants of California, the following 10 new nomenclatural combinations of Californian Castilleja subg. Castilleja at the subspecific level are proposed: C. affinis subsp. litoralis (Pennell) Chuang & Heckard, C. affinis subsp. neglecta (Zeile) Chuang & Heckard, C. applegatei subsp. disticha (Eastwood) Chuang & Heckard, C. applegatei subsp. martinii (Abrams) Chuang & Heckard, C. applegatei subsp. pallida (Eastwood) Chuang & Heckard, C. applegatei subsp. pinetorum (Fernald) Chuang & Heckard, C. hispida subsp. brevilobata (Piper) Chuang & Heckard, C. lanata subsp. hololeuca (Greene) Chuang & Heckard, C. minor subsp. spiralis (Jepson) Chuang & Heckard, and C. subinclusa subsp. franciscana (Pennell) Chuang & Heckard. The justification for these nomenclatural changes is briefly summarized.
10.2307/3391891|A new genus and species of trees from mesic forests of lowland western Ecuador, Ecuadendron acosta-solisianum, is described. The new taxon is a canopy tree and is known from only three localities separated by a gap of 350 km. Ecuadendron is placed in the "Brownea group" of the tribe Detarieae (Fabaceae: Caesalpinioideae), and its closest relatives appear to include the monotypic Brachycylix from north-central Colombia, and Heterostemon and Elizabetha from the Guayana Shield area. With its long pendent inflorescences and particular suite of floral features, Ecuadendron appears to be adapted to pollination by bats.
10.2307/3393383|The new species Bashania aristata of Bambusoideae (Poaceae) from the giant panda's habitat of Mt. Qinling, Shaanxi, China, is described and illustrated. The new species differs from B. fargesii in its fully developed culm sheath auricles and aristate lemmas and from B. qingchenshanensis in its fully developed culm sheath auricles and in its lack of auricle leaf sheaths. Its relationship to the other species of Bashania is discussed along with the status of this genus.
20406018|A new species of Drymonia Martius, D. rubripilosa, is described, illustrated, and compared to D. multiflora (Oersted ex Hanstein) Wiehler, its closest presumed relative. The new species is distinguished by its sparsely to densely red-pilose stem apices, petioles, pedicels, calyxes, corollas, and ovaries. Its bivalved, fleshy capsule with fleshy indehiscent endocarp concealing the seeds is unique for Costa Rican species, shared otherwise only with D. folsomii and D. multiflora. Taxonomic comparison with D. multiflora and keys to separate the latter from D. rubripilosa are discussed. /// Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie de Drymonia Martius, D. rubripilosa, y se la compara con D. multiflora (Oersted ex Hanstein) Wiehler, especie que se presume es su pariente ms cercana. La nueva especie se distingue por sus ramitas distales, pecolos, pedicelos, clices, corolas y ovarios esparcidmode-oderadamente rojo-pilosos. Su cpsula bivalvada, carnosa, con el endocarpo indehiscente y carnoso, que cubre a las semillas, es nico para las especies costarricenses, y compartido nicamente con D. folsomii y D. multiflora. Se hace la comparacin taxonmica con D. multiflora y se discuten las claves para separar a sta de D. rubripilosa.
20406322|Ouratea acicularis R. Chacon & K. Yamamoto (Ochnaceae), a new species from the recently created Estao Ecolgica Serra Geral do Tocantins, Jalapo region, Brazil, is described. Ouratea acicularis appears to be most closely allied to O. oleifolia (A. Saint-Hilaire) Engler. Both species share a pubescent indumentum on the young branches, leaf surfaces, inflorescence axes, and outer surface of the flower buds, as well as revolute leaves and acute flower buds. Ouratea acicularis is unique in the genus in its aciculate leaf blade, at least 4 times narrower than in O. oleifolia, with a strongly revolute margin that conceals the abaxial leaf surface except for the midrib, as well as its inconspicuous secondary venation and narrower flower buds. Anatomically, O. acicularis differs from other previously studied species of Ouratea Aublet in that the cells of the adaxial epidermis have an hourglass-shaped lumen, pluricellular forked hairs fused at the base, an unusually large cap of fibers and sclereids above the collateral vascular bundles, and in the predominantly 2-layered chlorenchyma. The stems of O. acicularis are noteworthy for the conspicuous secretory cavities of the cortex and secondary xylem, in which fibers and vessel members predominate. /// Este trabalho descreve Ouratea acicularis R. Chacon & K. Yamamoto (Ochnaceae), espcie novada recentemente criada Estao Ecolgica Serra Geral do Tocantins, Regio do Jalapo, Tocantins, Brasil. Ouratea acicularis se assemelha mais a O. oleifolia (A. Saint-Hilaire) Engler. Ambas as espcies apresentam indumento pubescente nos ramos jovens, em ambas as faces foliares, nos eixos da inflorescncia e na superfcie externa dos botes florais, bem como folhas revolutas e botes florais agudos. Ouratea acicularis  a nica espcie do gnero que possui lminas foliares aciculares, ca. quatro vezes mais estreitas do que em O. oleifolia, com margens foliares fortemente revolutas que escondem a face abaxial da folha exceto a nervura mediana, bem como pela venao secundria inconspcua e botes florais mais estreitos. Anatomicamente, O. acicularis difere das outras espcies j estudadas por apresentar clulas da epiderme adaxial com lmen em forma de ampulheta, tricomas pluricelulares fundidos na base, uma capa excepcionalmente desenvolvida de fibras e escleredeos sobre os feixes vasculares colaterais, e clornquima predominantemente bi-estratificado. Os ramos de O. acicularis so dignos de nota pela presena de cavidades secretoras conspcuas no crtex e pelo predomnio das fibras e dos elementos de vaso e xilema secundrio.
27765223|The new species Astragalus beitashanensis W. Chai & P. Yan (Leguminosae) is described from Xinjiang, China. Astragalus beitashanensis is similar to A. laguroides Pall., but differs by its elliptic to suborbicular leaflets that are 49 X 3-6 mm, ovate bracts, and deeply emarginate standard.
10.2307/3392128|A new species of Lilaeopsis, L. mauritiana, is described and illustrated. The species is endemic to Mauritius (southwest Indian Ocean), where it has been found at a single locality in Le Val Nature Park. The predominantly temperate and alpine genus Lilaeopsis has not previously been recognized from Mauritius.
10.2307/3391598|Draba barclayana, a new Colombian species endemic to the Cordillera Oriental, is described, and the characters distinguishing it from the nearest relative, the Ecuadorian endemic D. spruceana, are given.
10.2307/3391880|Obtegomeria Doroszenko & P. D. Cantino, a new genus based on Satureja sect. Obtectae Epling & Jtiva, is distinguished from the rest of the Satureja complex by the combination of stiffly ascending, replicate leaves, lower lip of the corolla nearly to fully as long as the tube, and reticulate pollen. Obtegomeria is monotypic and endemic to Colombia. The new combination Obtegomeria caerulescens (Bentham) Doroszenko & P. D. Cantino is provided.
23259348|In a recent revision of Gouania Jacq. (Rhamnaceae) for Madagascar and other western Indian Ocean islands, confusion about the correct date of publication of Lamarck's Encyclopdie Mthodique caused the authors to overlook the nomenclatural priority of G. tiliifolia Lam. over the heterotypic synonym G. scandens (Gaertn.) R. B. Drumm. The error is corrected, and the new combination G. tiliifolia subsp. glandulosa (Boivin ex Tul.) Buerki, Phillipson & Callm. is provided for its non-typical subspecies. Lors de la rcente rvision du genre Gouania Jacq. (Rhamnaceae)  Madagascar et incluant les autres les de l'Ocan Indien occidental, une confusion sur la date exacte de publication de l'Encyclopdie Mthodique de Lamarck a eu pour consquence une omission dans la priorit nomenclaturale de G. tiliifolia Lam. sur le synonyme htrotypique G. scandens (Gaertn.) R. B. Drumm. Cette erreur est corrige et la nouvelle combinaison G. tiliifolia subsp. glandulosa (Boivin ex Tul.) Buerki, Phillipson & Callm. est propose pour sa sous-espce non-typique.
23018504|Five new species of Gentianella Moench (Gentianaceae) are described from western South America. Gentianella decemnectaria J. S. Pringle, from Peru, is characterized by decumbent stems and nearly rotate corollas with 10 nectaries per corolla. Gentianella pluvialis J. S. Pringle, from Bolivia, is similar to G. florida (Griseb.) Holub, differing in its larger flowers with bright yellow corollas. Gentianella pyrostelium J. S. Pringle, from Peru, is characterized by its columnar habit and red and yellow, scarcely opening corollas. Gentianella rugicalyx J. S. Pringle, from Peru, differs from G. paludicola (Gilg) J. S. Pringle in its wider, abruptly acute calyx lobes and corolla tube that widens more gradually, and from G. persquarrosa (Reimers) J. S. Pringle in its leafier stems and glabrous corollas. Gentianella sanchezii J. S. Pringle, from Peru, is characterized by slender, clustered stems arising from a persistent rosette, pedicels mostly longer than the internodes, and widely funnelform, purplish pink corollas. Se describen cinco nuevas especies de Gentianella Moench (Gentianaceae) del oeste de Amrica del Sur. Gentianella decemnectaria J. S. Pringle, del Per, se caracteriza por los tallos decumbentes y las corolas casi rotceas las cuales llevan 10 nectarios. Gentianella pluvialis J. S. Pringle, de Bolivia, se parece a G. florida (Griseb.) Holub pero se diferencia por las flores ms grandes y las corolas amarillas intensas. Gentianella pyrostelium J. S. Pringle, del Per, se caracteriza por el hbito columnar y las corolas rojas y amarillas las cuales apenas se abren. Gentianella rugicalyx J. S. Pringle, del Per, se diferencia de G. paludicola (Gilg) J. S. Pringle por los lbulos del cliz ms anchos y abruptamente agudos y por el tubo de la corola el cual se ensancha ms gradualmente, y de G. persquarrosa (Reimers) J. S. Pringle por los tallos ms hojosos y las corolas glabras. Gentianella sanchezii J. S. Pringle, del Per, se caracteriza por los tallos delgados agrupados sobre la roseta persistente, los pedicelos en su mayora ms largos que los entrenudos, y las corolas anchamente infundibuliformes lilacino-rosceas.
40300872|A new species belonging to the genus Cinnamodendron Endlicher (Canellaceae) is described: C. occhionianum F. Barros & J. Salazar. The new species is known only from Cardoso Island off the coast of southeastern Brazil. It is similar to C. axillare Endlicher ex Walpers and C. sampaioanum Occhioni, but differs from the former by the fasciculate inflorescence and dark purple flowers, and from the latter by the nonplicate apex of the leaves and a shorter fruit pedicel. It also resembles C. dinisii Schwacke in its vegetative features, but differs from it mainly by the flowers with 10 petals, 10 stamens, and ovary with two placentae. /// Uma nova espcie do gnero Cinnamodendron Endlicher (Canellaceae)  descrita e ilustrada, com o nome C. occhionianum F. Barros & J. Salazar. A nova espcie  conhecida, at o momento, somente da Ilha do Cardoso, no litoral sudeste do Brasil. Ela  prxima de C. axillare Endlicher ex Walpers e C. sampaioanum Occhioni, mas difere da primeira pela inflorescncia em fascculo e flores purpreas, e da segunda pelo pice das folhas no plicado e pedicelo dos frutos mais curto. Lembra C. dinisii Schwacke no seu aspecto vegetativo, mas difere principalmente pelas flores com 10 ptalas, 10 estames e ovrio com duas placentas.
10.2307/3393237|A new species from Iran, Astragalus tuyehensis, belonging to the bifurcate-haired subgenus Cercidothrix, is described and illustrated. Its relationships to A. durandianus and its distinguishing characters, such as inflated calyx and non-swollen fruit, are discussed.
23018452|A rare endemic species on Ulleung Island, Korea, is transferred from Physocarpus (Cambess.) Raf. (Rosaceae) to Spiraea L., based on morphology and DNA sequence data. The new combination S. insularis (Nakai) H. Shin, Y. D. Kim & S. H. Oh is proposed.
10.2307/3391474|Liparis seidenfadeniana from China is described, and its relationships are briefly discussed.
3393297| Two new species, Festuca dinirica Stank and F. guaramacalana Stank (Poaceae, Loliinae), from the Venezuelan Andes are described. Festuca dinirica is found in the pramo zone and seems best placed in subgenus Festuca sect. Aulaxyper; Festuca guaramacalana is found in humid mountain forests and belongs in Festuca subg. Subulatae sect. Subulatae. Both species are endemic to Venezuela, known from small areas of Dinira National Park and Guaramacal National Park, respectively. /// Se presentan dos especies nuevas, Festuca dinirica Stank and F. guaramacalana Stank (Poaceae, Loliinae), endmicas de los Andes de Venezuela. La especie F. dinirica pertenece al subg. Festuca sect. Aulaxyper y se conoce solo de la zona paramna del Parque Nacional Dinira. La especie F. guaramacalana es un representante del subg. Subulatae sect. Subulatae, endmica de la zona del bosque hmedo altoandino del Parque Nacional Guaramacal. 
10.2307/3391682|A new subspecies, Brownea coccinea subsp. capitella, is recognized based on geographical separation and morphological differences. A key to the subspecies is provided.
43288947|A revision of the Andean species of Ocotea Aubl. (Lauraceae) with hermaphrodite flowers and the lower leaf surface completely covered by the pubescence is presented. A key to the 22 recognized species is provided. Fourteen species are described as new: O. cornata van der Werff, O. micrantha van der Werff, and O. stenophylla van der Werff from Bolivia; O. gentryi van der Werff, O. pedicellata van der Werff, and O. umbrina van der Werff from Colombia; O. foxensis van der Werff, O. palaciosii van der Werff, O. pautensis van der Werff from Ecuador; O. andina van der Werff, O. glabriflora van der Werff, O. pajonalis van der Werff, and O. trematifera van der Werff from Peru; and finally, the single species O. guaramacalensis van der Werff from Venezuela. Lectotypification is provided for the name O. jehkii Mez.
20406086|Recent studies have shown that the genus Acacia Miller s.l. is polyphyletic, consisting of at least five distinct groups of species. One of these groups, the proposed genus Mariosousa Seigler & Ebinger, consists of 13 species. We have made the following new combinations: Mariosousa acatlensis (Bentham) Seigler & Ebinger, M. centralis (Britton & Rose) Seigler & Ebinger, M. compacta (Rose) Seigler & Ebinger, M. coulteri (Bentham in A. Gray) Seigler & Ebinger, M. dolichostachya (S. F. Blake) Seigler & Ebinger, M. durangensis (Britton & Rose) Seigler & Ebinger, M. mammifera (Schlechtendal) Seigler & Ebinger, M. millefolia (S. Watson) Seigler & Ebinger, M. russelliana (Britton & Rose) Seigler & Ebinger, M. salazarii (Britton & Rose) Seigler & Ebinger, M. sericea (Martens & Galeotii) Seigler & Ebinger, M. usumacintensis (Lundell) Seigler & Ebinger, and M. willardiana (Rose in Vasey & Rose) Seigler & Ebinger. These species are restricted to tropical and subtropical regions of the southwestern United States, Mexico, and Central America. In addition to their close geographic affinities, a series of morphological characteristics, as well as recent molecular data, separate this new genus, which has been commonly referred to as the Acacia coulteri group. They are morphologically distinct from other species of Acacia subg. Aculeiferum Vassal in that they always lack prickles and are never lianas. Although this group of species is monophyletic, previous taxonomic treatments have not dealt with them as a separate unit within Acacia subg. Aculeiferum.
3393359|A new combination in Sterculiaceae, Hermannieae, Waltheria berteroi (Sprengel) J. G. Saunders, is created and lectotypified. Waltheria subcordata Standley from Colombia and Venezuela is newly synonymized to W. berteroi on the basis of shared bract, leaf, and inflorescence characters. Additional isotypes of W. subcordata are newly cited for Smith 493, and further clarification of nontype Smith 493 specimens is given. Waltheria berteroi has been confused with W. lophanthus J. R. & G. Forster from the South Pacific Ocean but differs in its leaf vestiture, leaf apices, stipules, bracts, thrum stamen tube, and stigma, as well as characters of the fruit and seed. Apparent morphological intermediates of W. berteroi with W. glomerata Presl or W. involucrata Bentham are noted to occur outside the Colombian Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta, western Eastern Cordillera, and Sahagun vicinities.
10.2307/3391493|Cladocolea racemosa and C. elliptica are illustrated and described as new. The former, Mexican species is unique in the genus in having progressive indeterminate inflorescences, and highly unusual in having pedicellate flowers. The latter, Suriname species also has an indeterminate inflorescence, but is closely related to C. micrantha.
10.2307/3393045|Myrocarpus emarginatus, known only from Bolivia, is described and illustrated. Its diagnostic characters are the emarginate leaflet apex, pellucid dots and streaks immersed on the leaflet blades, and the areolate reticulation of the seed chamber. The new species is morphologically similar to Myrocarpus fastigiatus Allemo, especially in the shape of its leaflets, ranging from elliptic to oblong; neither species exhibits leaflets with an acuminate apex.
10.2307/3391823|Continuing study on neotropical Grammitidaceae for various floras in press or in progress necessitates the following new combinations: Ceradenia oidiophora, C. phalacron, Lellingeria ciliolepis, L. dissimulans, L. hombersleyi, Melpomene gracilis, M. zempoaltepetlensis, Terpsichore bipinnata, T. elastica, and T. flexuosa.
10.2307/3391871|Zamia lacandona, a member of the Z. splendens species group, is described from the Selva Lacandona of eastern Chiapas, Mexico. It is distinguished from Zamia splendens Schutzman by its usually single arcuate leaf with falcate leaflets, erect short-peduncled megasporangiate strobili, decumbent microstrobili, and chromosome number of 2n = 16, 17, or 18.
10.2307/3393165|Two new species of Agalinis Rafinesque, A. itambensis V. C. Souza & S. I. Elias and A. nana S. I. Elias & V. C. Souza, are described and illustrated. The new combination A. schwackeana (Diels) V. C. Souza & A. M. Giulietti is also made.
20406074|Two new species and one subspecies of Mesoamerican Dichaea Lindley with caducous leaves are described and illustrated. Dichaea dressleri Folsom, a new species with narrow, glaucous leaves and resembling D. gracillima C. Schweinfurth, is described from wet forests in western Panama. Dichaea globosa Dressler & Pupulin, a new species described from Costa Rica and Panama, is a close ally of D. fragrantissima Folsom and of the widespread D. morrisii Fawcett & Rendle and may be distinguished by the fleshy, subtruncate lip with a broad claw and obovate petals. Dichaea fragrantissima, already described from Panama with a short diagnosis, is more fully described here. It is distinguished by the short, obtuse, lateral lobes of the lip, the subquadrate ligule and the narrow, subacuminate sepals and petals. Within D. fragrantissima, subsp. fragrantissima has prominent lilac lines on the sepals and petals and the lip is lilac, while subsp. eburnea Dressler & Pupulin, of Nicaragua, Costa Rica, and Panama, is distinguished by ivory flowers with greenish ivory apices and smaller lateral lobes of the lip. Some members of subsp. eburnea are autogamous. Dichaea morrisii, although ranging widely in South America, is uncommon in Mesoamerica. /// Se describen y se ilustran dos nuevas especies y una nueva subespecie de Dichaea Lindley de hojas cducas de Mesoamrica. Dichaea dressleri Folsom, una especie con hojas estrechas y glaucas, parecida a D. gracillima C. Schweinfurth, se describe de bosques hmedos de Panam occidental. Dichaea globosa Dressler & Pupulin, conocida de Costa Rica y Panam, es pariente cercano de D. fragrantissima y de D. morrisii Fawcett & Rendle, de distribucin amplia, y se puede distinguir por el labelo carnoso, subtruncado, con la ua ancha, y los ptalos obovados. Dichaea fragrantissima, ya descrita de Panam, se distingue por los lbulos laterales del labelo cortos, la lgula subcuadrada y los spalos y ptalos estrechos y subacuminados. Se provee una descripcin ms amplia que la de la publicacin original. Dentro de D. fragrantissima, la subsp. fragrantissima tiene rayas lilas en los sepalos y ptalos y el labelo lila, y los lbulos laterales del labelo ms largos, mientras la subsp. eburnea Dressler & Pupulin se distingue por las flores color marfil con los pices marfil verdosos y los lbulos laterales del labelo cortos y obtusos. Algunas de las plantas de subsp. eburnea son autgamas. Dichaea morrisii tiene una distribucin amplia en Sudamrica, pero es poco comn en Mesoamrica.
40856278|The new combination Stillingia tenella (Pax & K. Hoffm.) Esser is proposed, which is based on an overlooked name originally described in Sapium Jacq. and replaces Stillingia yungasensis Belgrano & Pozner as a new synonym.
10.2307/3391484|Reexamination of the species and hybrids of the simple-lipped group of the genus Platanthera sect. Blephariglottis shows that several colonies found on eastern Long Island constitute a new species. Platanthera pallida is described based upon its recurved lip, reflexed lateral sepals, pale cream coloration, and unusual habitat-dry, interdunal hollows. It was previously referred to as P. cristata because of its superficial resemblance to that species and lack of other similar fringed orchises in the northeastern United States.
10.2307/3393024|In preparing the account of Allium L. for the Flora of China, Volume 24, two new combinations are made in order to recognize entities at varietal rank within the complex of A. atrosanguineum Schrenk: A. atrosanguineum var. fedschenkoanum (Regel) G. Zhu & Turland and A. atrosanguineum var. tibeticum (Regel) G. Zhu & Turland. Lectotypes are herein designated for both names. The priority of A. atrosanguineum over A. monadelphum Turczaninow ex Karelin & Kirilov (published in the same year) is explained.
20406057|A new species of Begonia (Begoniaceae) from Vietnam, Begonia brevipedunculata Y. M. Shui, is described and illustrated. It belongs to section Platycentrum (J. F. Klotzsch) A. DC., which is distinguished by having two persistent styles and two locules in every ovary. Its chief diagnostic characters are the dense clavate glandular pubescence on the abaxial leaf surface and the scape much shorter than the petiole. The characters distinguishing the new species from Begonia howii Merrill & Chun and B. psilophylla Irmscher are noted. In addition, a key to six similar species at the border of China and Vietnam is presented.
10.2307/3392166|During the writing of the treatment of Basellaceae for Flora Mesoamericana it became apparent that typification of the Linnaean names Basella alba L. and B. lucida L. required clarification. A note to formally fix the application of these two names is provided here.
3393413| A new species of Bromeliaceae, Aechmea sucreana, found in Esprito Santo State, Brazil, is described and illustrated. It is distinguished from its closest relative, A. blanchetiana, on the basis of inflorescence features. 
40856277|A new species, Strobilanthes ovata Y. F. Deng & J. R. I. Wood (Acanthaceae), is described and illustrated. The new species is another endemic species from Gaoligong Shan in southwest Yunnan similar to S. decipiens J. R. I. Wood, but differs in its glabrous leaves, winged rachis, the distant, spicate flowers, and the ovate, oblong-ovate, or rounded bracts.
23018484|Anoectochilus tetrapterus Hook. f. (Orchidaceae) is transferred to Odontochilus Blume as O. tetrapterus (Hook. f.) Av. Bhattacharjee & H. J. Chowdhery based on its morphological characteristics. An emended description and illustration are provided to facilitate identification of the species.
10.2307/3391995|An infrageneric classification for the genus Poa L. in North America, new taxa, combinations, names, hybrid status, and lectotypes are proposed for forthcoming treatments of the genus in the Americas. New names, combinations, and taxa are: Dissanthelium atropidiforme (Hackel) Soreng, D. atropidiforme var. patagonicum (Parodi) Soreng, D. calycinum subsp. mathewsii (Ball) Soreng, Poa sect. Alpinae (Hegetschweiler ex Nyman) Soreng, P sect. Dasypoa (Pilger) Soreng, P sect. Sylvestres V. L. Marsh ex Soreng, P. arnowiae Soreng, P. chambersii Soreng, P. tovari Soreng, P. unilateralis subsp. pachypholis (Piper) D. D. Keck ex Soreng, P. Xgaspensis Fernald, and Puccinellia atacamensis (Parodi) Soreng. Lectotypes are proposed for the following taxa: Dissanthelium sclerochloides Steudel ex E. Fournier, Poa [unranked] Arenariae Hegetschweiler, Poa [unranked] Caespitosae Fries ex Lange, Poa [unranked] Fasciculiferae Fries ex Lange, Poa [unranked] Glareosae Hegetschweiler, Poa [unranked] Hydrophilae Hegetschweiler, Poa [unranked] Macranthela K. Koch, Poa [unranked] Micranthela K. Koch, Poa [unranked] Stoloniferae Fries ex Lange, Poa [unranked] Subbulbosae Fries ex Andersson, Poa sect. Incanae V. Jirsek, Poa sect. Nervosae Rouy, Poa sect. Obsoletae Rouy, Poa sect. Spizopoa Dumortier.
20406255|Se describe, ilustra y compara con sus parientes ms cercanos una nueva especie de Calceolaria L. (Calceolariaceae) del centro del Per: Calceolaria oxapampensis Puppo de la seccin Lehmannina Pennell. La nueva especie habita en bosque primario entre los 2400-2800 m en el departamento de Pasco. /// A new species of Calceolaria L. (Calceolariaceae) from central Peru is described, illustrated, and compared with its closest relatives: Calceolaria oxapampensis Puppo of section Lehmannina Pennell. The new species occurs in primary forest between 2400 and 2800 m in Pasco department.
3393429| Two undescribed species of Meliosma Blume have been found during revision of the Bolivian material of the genus for the checklist of the Bolivian vascular plants: Meliosma minutipetala Arbelez, having the smallest inner petals of any Meliosma species reported from the Neotropics, and M. petalodentata Arbelez, having both the outer and inner petals dentate. A key to the eight species known from Bolivia is provided. /// Dos especies an no descritas del gnero Meliosma Blume fueron encontradas durante la revisin del material boliviano de este gnero para el "checklist" de las plantas vasculares de Bolivia: Meliosma minutipetala Arbelez, la cual tiene los ptalos internos ms pequeos de todos aquellos reportados previamente para cualquier especie de Meliosma en los Neotrpicos, y M. petalodentata Arbelez, la cual tiene tanto los ptalos externos como los internos dentados. Se presenta una clave para las ocho especies de Meliosma que se conocen de Bolivia. 
3393296| Dicranopygium callithrix, a new species of Cyclanthaceae, is described from the northern end of the Cauca Valley in western Colombia. It belongs to subgenus Dicranopygium, section Dicranopygium. Its very long white staminodes, combined with other floral and foliar characters, distinguish it from all other described species of this genus. Dicranopygium callithrix is the only species of Dicranopygium known from the Cauca Valley and may be endemic there. It is in danger of extinction. /// Dicranopygium callithrix, una nueva especie de Cyclanthaceae, se describe, procedente del extremo septentrional del valle geogrfico del ro Cauca, en la parte occidental de Colombia. La nueva especie pertenece al subgnero Dicranopygium, seccin Dicranopygium. Sus estaminodios blancos y muy largos, combinados con otros caracteres florales y foliares, la distinguen de todas las otras especies descritas de este gnero. Dicranopygium callithrix es la nica especie de Dicranopygium que se conoce del valle geogrfico del ro Cauca, y es posible que sea endmica all. Est en peligro de extincin. 
10.2307/3393004|Chorispora tashkorganica, a narrow endemic to western Xinjiang, China, is described and illustrated. Its relationships and distinguishing characters are discussed.
23018462|A new species was detected while conducting a monographic study of Cohniella Pfitzer (Orchidaceae, Cymbideae, Oncidiinae). Cohniella croizatii Cetzal & Carnevali is newly described from material collected in the vicinity of Puerto Ayacucho and from the upper Orinoco, Amazonas State, Venezuela. The new species is illustrated and its affinities are discussed. The novelty is similar to C. cebolleta (Jacq.) Christenson from northern Venezuela and Colombia, but differs in the callus that consists of three large, apical teeth of more or less similar size that emerge directly from the labellum disk, with the two lateral teeth marginally serrate to dentate on the proximal half. In contrast, the callus in C. cebolleta is more complex, consisting of five teeth that emerge from a conspicuous central platform, and the central tooth is proportionately larger. Una especie nueva fue encontrada durante nuestro trabajo monogrfico en el gnero Cohniella Pfitzer (Orchidaceae, Cymbideae, Oncidiinae). Cohniella croizatii Cetzal & Carnevali se propone como nueva de Puerto Ayacucho y del Alto Orinoco del Estado Amazonas, Venezuela. Esta especie nueva es ilustrada y sus afinidades son discutidas. La novedad est relacionada con C. cebolleta (Jacq.) Christenson del norte de Venezuela y Colombia, pero difiere por el callo que consiste de tres dientes apicales ms o menos del mismo tamao que emergen directamente del disco del labelo, los dos dientes laterales son marginalmente serrados a dentados en la mitad proximal. Por el contrario, mientras que el callo en C. cebolleta es ms complejo, consistiendo de cinco quillas que emergen de una plataforma central conspicua, y el diente central es proporcionalmente muy grande.
10.2307/3391393|The new combination Chonemorpha verrucosa is made, and a key to the four species of Chonemorpha in Thailand is given.
10.2307/3392975|The new genus Baimashania and the new species B. pulvinata and B. wangii are described. The relationships and characters distinguishing Baimashania from Solmslaubachia, Leiospora, and Pycnoplinthus are discussed.
40300874|Three new species of Brachystelma Sims (Apocynaceae, Asclepiadoideae, Ceropegieae) are described and illustrated. These are B. pruinosum Bruyns from the mountains of southern Angola and the Kaokoveld of northern Namibia, B. tenuissimum Bruyns from central Tanzania and northern Zambia, and B. theronii Bruyns from the western parts of the Great Karoo of South Africa.
10.2307/3391723|A new species, Solanum diamantinense, is described and illustrated. It is endemic to Brazil and restricted to the Chapada Diamantina in the State of Bahia, northeastern Brazil. This species is closely related to the Brazilian Solanum baturitense Huber, from which it differs by its oblanceolate leaf blades, short calyx lobes, and dense, stalked, glandular-stellate pubescence. /// Uma nova espcie, Solanum diamantinense,  descrita e ilustrada e sua distribuco e sua afinidade so discutidas. Espcie endmica do Brasil, restrita  Chapada da Diamantina, estado da Bahia, nordeste do Brasil. Solanum diamantinense possui afinidade com S. baturitense Huber, da qual pode se distinguir pela lmina foliar oblanceolada, clice com lobos curtos e a densa pubescncia com tricomas estrelados e glandular-estrelados pedicelados.
3393439|Dacryophyllum falcifolium, a new North American genus and species of moss, is described and illustrated. The taxon is described from sterile California collections, where it occurs on calcareous rock in redwood forests in Monterey and Santa Cruz Counties. The new moss genus Dacryophyllum is considered a member of the large pleurocarpous family Hypnaceae and is morphologically close to Taxiphyllum.
3393356| Tigridia suarezii (Iridaceae, Tigridieae) is a new species from Mexico. Its distinguishing features are the dark purple, almost black color of the spreading tepal limbs and the white to cream floral cup with dark purple spots and stripes. It is morphologically similar to T. alpestris subsp. obtusa and T. venusta, from which it differs in the more robust habit of the plant, the shape, length, and width of the tepals, and the length of the anther, filament column, and style branches. Tigridia suarezii and T. venusta inhabit the understory in pine-oak forests in an altitudinal range from 2080 to 2800 m, whereas T. alpestris subsp. obtusa grows on exposed rocky slopes above 3000 m. Tigridia suarezii is known only from the state of Jalisco. /// Tigridia suarezii (Iridaceae, Tigridieae) es una especie nueva para Mxico. Se caracteriza por el color prpura, casi negro de la parte distal de los tpalos y el color blanco o crema con manchas o rayas prpuras de la copa floral. Su morfologa es similar a T. alpestris subsp. obtusa y T. venusta de las que se distingue por su hbito ms robusto y en la forma, longitud y ancho de los tpalos. Tambin son diferentes en la longitud de las anteras, la columna estaminal y las ramas del estilo. Tigridia suarezii y T. venusta crecen en el sotobosque del bosque de pino y encino en un rango altitudinal de 2080 a 2800 m. En contraste, T. alpestris subsp. obtusa crece en acantilados rocosos por encima de los 3000 m de altitud. Tigridia suarezii se conoce nicamente del estado de Jalisco. 
10.2307/3392008|A new species, Cardiospermum cuchujaquense from Sonora, Mexico, is described and illustrated. The new species belongs to C. sect. Carphospermum, which is characterized by the presence of chaffy or scaly trichomes. With the discovery of C. cuchujaquense, a pattern of disjunct distribution is documented for C. sect. Carphospermum. /// En el prsente artculo se describe y se ilustra una nueva especie de Cardiospermum (C. cuchujaquense), la cual pertenece a C. seccin Carphospermum. Mediante el descubrimiento de esta nueva especie se documenta un patrn de disyuncin en la distribucin de la seccin Carphospermum.
10.2307/3391799|Four new combinations in Chaetostoma (C. albiflorum, C. cupressinum, C. selagineum, C. stenocladon,) are proposed, and a new species, Chaetostoma flavum, endemic to the Chapada dos Veadeiros, Gois, Brazil, is described. The new species can be distinguished by its 4-5-locular ovary and antisepalous stamens with prolonged appendages.
20406329|As part of a revision of the genus, Agropyron deweyi . Lve (Poaceae, Triticeae) is neotypified, because its holotype grown from seed material from Turkey was lost. The neotype is selected from one of two specimens bearing the same wildorigin seed details as the original type, which differ in the date of their collection.
10.2307/3392047|Se describe y se ilustra Tintinnabularia gratissima de Mxico. En adicin, se incluye una breve sinopsis del gnero. /// Tintinnabularia gratissima from Mexico is described and illustrated. In addition, a brief synopsis of the genus is given.
40300911|A new species of Clematis L. (Ranunculaceae), C. liuzhouensis Y. G. Wei & C. R. Lin, is described and illustrated. The new species is related to C. wissmanniana Handel-Mazzetti, but differs in its leaflets that always have entire margins and are abaxially silvery-pannose and in its smaller sepals that are up to 1.5 X 0.6 cm.
20406340|Hampeella concavifolia Hattaway & D. H. Norris (Ptychomniaceae) is described and illustrated from Queensland, Australia. It differs from H. pallens (Sande Lacoste) M. Fleischer in its teretely foliate, attenuate secondary stems; the closely imbricate, strongly concave, symmetrical leaves that have bright orange to red-brown basal cells with incrassate-porose walls; longer capsules (to 2.4 mm); and longer setae (to 14 mm). Hampeella concavifolia is distinguished from H. alaris (Dixon & Sainsbury) Sainsbury by its less differentiated alar cells, usually longer secondary stems (to 3 cm), and differences in peristome ornamentation. This new species is designated as Data Deficient (DD) according to IUCN Red List criteria.
23259426|A new combination, Senna tocotana (Rose ex Britton & Killip) Silverst., is proposed for Chamaefistula tocotana Rose ex Britton & Killip, the latter name previously placed in synonymy of S. viminea (L.) H. S. Irwin & Barneby. The Colombian species S. tocotana is not conspecific with the Jamaican species S. viminea. They differ notably in the size and shape of the fruits and in the arrangement of seeds; the fruits of S. viminea are shorter and broader than in S. tocotana, and the seeds are biseriate (in two rows) versus uniseriate in S. tocotana. Una nueva combinacin, Senna tocotana (Rose ex Britton & Killip) Silverst., se propone para Chamaefistula tocotana Rose ex Britton & Killip, la cual estaba colocada en la sinonimia de S. viminea (L.) H. S. Irwin & Barneby. La especie colombiana S. tocotana no pertenece a la misma especie como la especie jamaicana S. viminea. Ellas difieren notablemente en el tamao y la forma de los frutos y en la ordenacin de las semillas; los frutos de S. viminea son ms cortos y ms anchos que en S. tocotana, y las semillas son biseriadas (en dos filas), versus uniseriadas en S. tocotana.
10.2307/3392241|Se describe Rhamnus wendtii del Cerro Salomn, Sierra Atravesada, Oaxaca, Mxico, como especie nueva que parece estar emparentada a R. mcvaughii. Se conoce solamente de la localidad tipo, de selvas bajas perennifolias y bosques cercanos. /// Rhamnus wendtii is described as a new species from Cerro Salomn, Sierra Atravesada, Oaxaca, Mexico, with apparent affinities to R. mcvaughii. It is known only from the type locality, in elfin forest and surrounding vegetation.
10.2307/3393220|The new species Chomelia rubra Lorence & C. M. Taylor, described and illustrated here, is known only from central Panama. This new species has red to pink flowers that are sessile and solitary or few in subsessile short cymules. This new species has previously been confused with C. recordii Standley. /// La especie nueva Chomelia rubra Lorence & C. M. Taylor, aqu descrita e ilustrada, est registrada solamente de Panam central. Esta especie nueva tiene flores rojas a rosadas, y ssiles y solitarias o pocas en cmulas corta subssiles. Anteriormente esta especie nueva ha sido confundida con Ch. recordii Standley.
10.2307/3392130|A new species of the genus Miconia sect. Cremanium from highland "campo rupestre" vegetation of the Serra da Canastra National Park, S&$00E3;o Roque de Minas, is described and illustrated. It is distinguished from other species in this section by the 4-celled ovary with glabrous apex and leaves lanate below.
10.2307/3391795|The name Cephalotaxus latifolia (W. C. Cheng & L. K. Fu) L. K. Fu is an invalid combination because it was based on C. sinensis (Rehder & E. H. Wilson) H. L. Li var. latifolia W. C. Cheng & L. K. Fu, which is itself invalid because two specimens (male and female) were indicated as types in the protologue. The name is here validated at the rank of species, with the female specimen as the holotype.
10.2307/3391550|Recent anatomical and morphological studies of the Acianthinae indicate that the four species of Acianthus from Papuasia are better placed within Stigmatodactylus. This transfer requires three new combinations.
10.2307/3392071|Chamaedorea ponderosa from Panama and C. christinae from Colombia are named and described as new, and compared with related taxa.
10.2307/3391389|Rahowardiana globifera, newly described from Antioquia, Colombia, is a second species for this striking, high-climbing solanaceous genus.
3393459| Five new sections of Baccharis (Asteraceae, Astereae) are described: B. sect. Agglomeratae, including 2 species: B. condensata Rusby and B. platypoda DC.; B. sect. Canescentes, 8 species: B. gibertii Baker, B. gnaphalioides Sprengel, B. helichrysoides DC., B. leucocephala Dusn, B. leucopappa DC., B. patens Baker, B. phylicifolia DC., and B. psammophila Malme; B. sect. Curitybenses, 1 species: B. curitybensis Heering ex Malme; B. sect. Paleatae, 1 species: B. retamoides Philippi; and B. sect. Tridentatae, 6 species: B. deltoidea Baker, B. illinita DC., B. illinitoides Malagarriga, B. isabelae Soria & Zardini, B. subopposita DC., and B. tridentata Vahl. Four new series of Baccharis are described: B. [sect. Angustifoliae] ser. Uniflorae, 7 species: B. frigida Kunth, B. hutchisonii Cuatrecasas, B. laxiflora Rusby, B. libertadensis (S. B. Jones) H. Robinson, B. sternbergiana Steudel, B. trineura Soria & Zardini, and B. uniflora (Ruiz & Pavn) Persoon; B. [sect. Cylindricae] ser. Axillares, 20 species: B. angusticeps Dusn ex Malme, B. aracatubensis Malagarriga & Hatschbach, B. axillaris DC., B. concinna G. M. Barroso, B. cultrata Baker, B. elliptica Gardner, B. hypericifolia Baker, B. incisa Hooker & Arnott, B. lateralis Baker, B. lymanii G. M. Barroso, B. minutiflora Martius ex Baker, B. parvidentata Malagarriga, B. pauciflosculosa DC., B. perdusenii Giuliano, B. polyphylla Gardner, B. pseudovaccinioides Malagarriga, B. selloi Baker, B. serrula Schultz Bipontinus ex Baker, B. truncata Gardner, and B. xiphophylla Baker; B. [sect. Nitidae] ser. Hirsutae, 1 species: B. muelleri Baker; and B. [sect. Nitidae] ser. Lanuginosae, 4 species: B. calvescens DC., B. elaeagnoides Steudel ex Baker, B. myricifolia DC., and B. semiserrata DC. Three new combinations at the series level are proposed: Baccharis ser. Angustifoliae (Baker) Giuliano; B. ser. Cylindricae (Heering) Giuliano; and B. ser. Nitidae (Cuatrecasas) Giuliano. A new name, Baccharis perdusenii, is proposed to replace the illegitimate name B. dusenii G. M. Barroso. A respective lectotype is designated for B. platypoda, B. retamoides, and B. tridentata; a neotype is designated for B. uniflora. /// Se describen cinco nuevas secciones de Baccharis (Asteraceae, Astereae): B. sect. Agglomeratae, incluyendo 2 especies: B. condensata Rusby y B. platypoda DC.; B. sect. Canescentes, 8 especies: B. gibertii Baker, B. gnaphalioides Sprengel, B. helichrysoides DC., B. leucocephala Dusn, B. leucopappa DC., B. patens Baker, B. phylicifolia DC. y B. psammophila Malme; B. sect. Curitybenses, 1 especie: B. curitybensis Heering ex Malme; B. sect. Paleatae, 1 especie: B. retamoides Philippi; y B. sect. Tridentatae, 6 especies: B. deltoidea Baker, B. illinita DC., B. illinitoides Malagarriga, B. isabelae Soria & Zardini, B. subopposita DC. y B. tridentata Vahl. Se describen cuatro nuevas series de Baccharis: B. [sect. Angustifoliae] ser. Uniflorae, 7 especies: B. frigida Kunth, B. hutchisonii Cuatrecasas, B. laxiflora Rusby, B. libertadensis (S. B. Jones) H. Robinson, B. sternbergiana Steudel, B. trineura Soria & Zardini y B. uniflora (Ruiz & Pavn) Persoon; B. [sect. Cylindricae] ser. Axillares, 20 especies: B. angusticeps Dusn ex Malme, B. aracatubensis Malagarriga & Hatschbach, B. axillaris DC., B. concinna G. M. Barroso, B. cultrata Baker, B. elliptica Gardner, B. hypericifolia Baker, B. incisa Hooker & Arnott, B. lateralis Baker, B. lymanii G. M. Barroso, B. minutiflora Martius ex Baker, B. parvidentata Malagarriga, B. pauciflosculosa DC., B. perdusenii Giuliano, B. polyphylla Gardner, B. pseudovaccinioides Malagarriga, B. selloi Baker, B. serrula Schultz Bipontinus ex Baker, B. truncata Gardner y B. xiphophylla Baker; B. [sect. Nitidae] ser. Hirsutae, 1 especie: B. muelleri Baker; y B. [sect. Nitidae] ser. Lanuginosae, 4 especies: B. calvescens DC., B. elaeagnoides Steudel ex Baker, B. myricifolia DC. y B. semiserrata DC. Se proponen tres nuevas combinaciones a nivel de series: Baccharis ser. Angustifoliae (Baker) Giuliano, B. ser. Cylindricae (Heering) Giuliano y B. ser. Nitidae (Cuatrecasas) Giuliano. Se propone un nombre nuevo, Baccharis perdusenii, para reemplazar el nombre ilegtimo B. dusenii G. M. Barroso. Se designa un respectivo lectotipo para B. platypoda, B. retamoides y B. tridentata; se designa un neotipo para B. uniflora. 
10.2307/3391448|Douglasia beringensis, a new species from the Seward Peninsula in the Bering Strait region of Alaska, is described, illustrated, and compared to its closest arctic allies. A key is provided for the nine species of Douglasia recognized in North America, and a discussion of the Russian and American taxonomic concepts of the genus is given.
10.2307/3392996|A new genus and species, Stenosepala hirsuta, of the Alibertia group (Gardenieae, Rubiaceae), from northern Colombia and southern Panama, is described and illustrated. The new taxon is distinguished from closely related genera by its needle-like calyx lobes, persistent triangular and aristate stipules, large thyrses in male individuals, and its very hirsute ovary in female flowers.
3393337|Ditassa obscura (E. Fournier) Farinaccio & T. U. P. Konno (Apocynaceae: Asclepiadoideae, Asclepiadeae), a new combination from Minas Gerais State, Brazil, is proposed, and its relationships are discussed.
3393302|New combinations are made for the following species and varieties within the flora of Florida: Andropogon elliottii var. stenophyllus, Arnoglossum ovatum var. lanceolatum, Dalea albida, Dalea gracilis, Eupatorium album var. petaloideum, Harrisia eriophora var. fragrans, Harrisia gracilis var. aboriginum, Harrisia gracilis var. simpsonii, Houstonia procumbens var. hirsuta, Imperata cylindrica var. mexicana, Liatris pauciflora var. secunda, Pisonia discolor var. floridana, Pityopsis nervosa var. tracyi, Tephrosia virginiana var. mohrii, Yucca flaccida var. smalliana.
27765234|Heterostemma pingtaoi S. Y. He & J. Y. Lin (Apocynaceae, Asclepiadoideae) is described from Hainan Province, China. The new species is morphologically similar to H. oblongifolium Costantin in its leaf blade with an acute apex and rounded base. In comparison, H. pingtaoi differs from H. oblongifolium in its pubescent petioles (vs. glabrous), the leaves only to 7.3 cm long (vs. 7.5 14 cm), the five calyx glands (vs. 10), and the corolla externally pubescent and yellow-green with mauve pubescence (vs. green and glabrous).
10.2307/3391675|Recent expeditions in the Venezuelan Guayana have resulted in additional new taxa in the genus Ruellia (Acanthaceae). The following places these novelties on record for the convenience of other taxonomists prior to the publication of the Flora of the Venezuelan Guayana. Five new Venezuelan species of Ruellia, R. wurdackii, R. steyermarkii, R. delascioi, R. liesneri, and R. bolivarensis, are described, illustrated, and compared with their closest relatives.
20406069|Se describe como especie nueva e ilustra a Thompsonella garcia-mendozae P. Carrillo & Prez-Calix, a partir de ejemplares originarios de la parte media y baja de la Cuenca del Ro Balsas, en el sur del estado de Michoacn, Mxico. La nueva especie es la nica del gnero que lleva las hojas con pices aristados en su juventud y mrgenes hialinos, as como los spalos recurvados en el pice. Por otra parte, esta planta se asemeja a T. platyphylla Rose y a T. colliculosa Moran, de las que se diferencia en que sus cincinos inferiores miden hasta 6.5 cm y presentan 4 a 18 flores en pedicelos de 3 mm de largo, mientras que en T. platyphylla y en T. colliculosa los cincinos miden a lo ms 3 y 5 cm de largo respectivamente y llevan hasta 12 flores sobre pedicelos de 1 mm de largo. Por ltimo, se presenta una clave para la identificacin de las especies conocidas de Thompsonella. /// A new species, Thompsonella garcia-mendozae P. Carrillo & Prez-Calix, is described and illustrated. This taxon occurs in the Balsas River Basin of southern Michoacn, Mexico. The new species is unique in the genus Thompsonella by possessing young leaves with an aristate apex and hyaline margin, as well as sepals with a recurved apex. It is similar to T. platyphylla Rose and T. colliculosa Moran, from which it is distinguished by the possession of the lower cincinni up to 6.5 cm long and with 4 to 18 flowers. Furthermore, the flowers have pedicels up to 3 mm long. In T. platyphylla and T. colliculosa the cincinni are up to 3 and 5 cm long, respectively, and up to 12 flowers are borne, on pedicels 1 mm long or shorter. A key to the identification of species of Thompsonella is provided.
23259352|The genus Schizocalyx Wedd. was originally monotypic, but has been recently expanded based on molecular analysis to comprise six species, including four transferred from Bathysa C. Presl, where they were incorrectly classified, and two transferred from Phitopis Hook. f., which is now a synonym. Schizocalyx is now characterized by its calyptrate stipules, corollas with the lobes convolute in bud, capsules that are loculicidal across the apical part, and numerous flattened to angled seeds, as detailed in a revised genus description. This genus is now known from southern Central America through western South America and into central and southeastern Brazil. The nine species keyed here include the seven species previously described, for which nomenclature and range are summarized, and two species newly described here: S. condoricus D. A. Neill & C. M. Taylor, found in the eastern Andean foothills of southern Ecuador and previously confused with S. peruvianus (K. Krause) Kainul. & B. Bremer; and Schizocalyx truncatus C. M. Taylor, found in the eastern Andean foothills of central Peru and previously confused with S. obovatus (K. Schum. ex Standl.) Kainul. & B. Bremer. Lectotypes are selected for S. cuspidatus (A. St.-Hil.) Kainul. & B. Bremer and S. multiflorus (Hook. f.) Kainul. & B. Bremer. El gnero Schizocalyx Wedd. originalmente fue monotpico, pero ha sido ampliado recientemente para incluir seis especies, incluyendo cuatro especies transferidas de Bathysa C. Presl, en lo cual estaban clasificadas errneamente, y dos especies transferidas de Phitopis Hook. f., lo cual es actualmente un sinnimo. Schizocalyx actualmente se caracteriza por las estpulas caliptradas, corolas con los lbulos convolutos en la yema, cpsulas loculicidales en la parte apical y semillas numerosas, aplanadas o anguladas, como se detalle en una descripcin genrica actualizada. El gnero actualmente est registrada desde el sur de Amrica Central a travs de Sudamrica occidental hasta Brasil central y suroriental. Las nueve especies indicadas en este sinopsis con claves incluyen las siete especies descritas anteriormente para las cuales se indica su nomenclatura y su rango de distribucin, y dos especies nuevas descritas en este artculo: S. condoricus D. A. Neill & C. M. Taylor se encuentra en las cordilleras al este de los Andes en el sur del Ecuador, y previamente ha sido confundida con S. peruvianus (K. Krause) Kainul. & B. Bremer; y S. truncatus C. M. Taylor se encuentra en las cordilleras al este de los Andes en el centro de Per y ha sido confundida con S. obovatus (K. Schum. ex Standl.) Kainul. & B. Bremer. Lectotipos son seleccionados para S. cuspidatus (A. St.-Hil.) Kainul. & B. Bremer and S. multiflorus (Hook. f.) Kainul. & B. Bremer.
10.2307/3391727|Rudgea tayloriae (Rubiaceae), a new species from the eastern slopes of the Venezuelan Andes, is described and illustrated, and its relationships are discussed.
3393283|As part of a revision of Silphium (Asteraceae: Heliantheae) for the Flora of North America (FNA), four new combinations are proposed: S. asteriscus var. simpsonii (Greene) J. A. Clevinger, S. asteriscus var. trifoliatum (L.) J. A. Clevinger, S. asteriscus var. latifolium (A. Gray) J. A. Clevinger, and S. radula var. gracile (A. Gray) J. A. Clevinger. In addition, Silphium confertifolium Small is reduced to synonymy of Silphium asteriscus var. latifolium, and Silphium simpsonii var. wrightii L. M. Perry is reduced to synonymy of Silphium radula Nuttall. Silphium radula var. gracile is lectotypified.
10.2307/3392221|Siparuna campii, S. guajalitensis, and S. pubancura from central Ecuador, S. multiflora and S. conica from northwestern Ecuador and western Colombia, S. verticillata from Amazonian Ecuador, and S. cascada from southeastern Ecuador are described, illustrated, and discussed as to their relationships with morphologically similar species. Macrophotographs of male and female flowers illustrate the unusual details of Siparuna floral structure.
20406257|Ceratozamia decumbens (Zamiaceae, Cycadales) is newly described and illustrated. This species, endemic to Veracruz, has affinity with C. morettii Vzquez Torres & Vovides, but differs in leaf morphology and leaflet habit as well as in the microsporangiate and megasporangiate strobili and trunk. Ceratozamia decumbens is considered part of the C. latifolia species complex, which includes C. latifolia Miquel, C. microstrobila Vovides & J. D. Rees, C. huastecorum Avendao, Vovides & Castillo-Campos, and C. morettii.
10.2307/3393242|Se describe e ilustra Echeandia magnifica sp. nov. (Anthericaceae) con material proveniente del estado de Guerrero, Mxico. La nueva especie, perteneciente al subgnero Echeandia, est relacionada con E. michoacensis (Poellnitz) Cruden y con E. drepanoides (Greenman) Cruden, pero es claramente distinguible de la primera por sus hojas con el margen largamente ciliado, por su inflorescencia ramificada y por sus flores grandes con los tpalos internos ampliamente elpticos. De E. drepanoides se distingue por el mayor tamao de sus anteras y porque stas abren por una hendidura apical. /// A new species, Echeandia magnifica (Anthericaceae), from Guerrero, Mexico, is described and illustrated. The new species, included in the subgenus Echeandia, is related to E. michoacensis (Poellnitz) Cruden and E. drepanoides (Greenman) Cruden but is clearly distinguished from the former by its leaves long ciliate in the margins, its branched inflorescence, and its large flowers with the internal tepals widely elliptic in shape. From E. drepanoides it is distinguished by its larger anthers that dehisce through apical slits.
3393291| The new Peritassa sadleri and Peritassa longifolia are distinguished by their habit, leaf characteristics, color of flowers, shape of petals, number of ovules, size of inflorescences, and size of fruits. The new species Salacia nemorosa is distinguished from other southeastern Brazilian species by inflorescences, disc details, and size and shape of flowers and fruits. The new combination in Peritassa is also proposed: Peritassa glabra (A. C. Smith) Lombardi. /// As novas espcies Peritassa sadleri e Peritassa longifolia so distintas pelos hbitos, morfologia das folhas, cor das flores, forma das ptalas, nmero de vulos e tamanho das inflorescncias e dos frutos. Salacia nemorosa difere das outras congneres do sudeste do Brasil pelas inflorescncias, detalhes do disco e tamanho e forma das flores e dos frutos. Tambm uma nova combinao em Peritassa  proposta: Peritassa glabra (A. C. Smith) Lombardi. 
41811673|Passiflora unipetala P. Jrg., Muchhala & J. M. MacDougal (Passifloraceae) is described from two cloud forest remnants in Pichincha, Ecuador, and is assigned to the Andean endemic Passiflora L. supersect. Tacsonia (Juss.) Feuillet & J. M. MacDougal. This new species with yellowish green flowers is distinguished from all other passionflowers by having only one petal. It is pollinated by bats, which is rare in Passiflora.
40856276|During the taxonomie revision of Taxithelium Spruce ex Mitt. (Pylaisiadelphaceae), species previously treated in the genus are excluded, and eight new combinations are presented here: Camptochaete novae-zeelandiae (E. B. Bartram & Dixon) P. E. A. S. Cmara, Chaetomitrium spuriosubtile (Broth.) P. E. A. S. Cmara, Phyllodon bilobatus (Dixon) P. E. A. S. Cmara, P. choiropyxis (Mll. Hal.) P. E. A. S. Cmara, P. glossoides (Bosch & Sande Lac.) P. E. A. S. Cmara, Sematophyllum borneense (Broth.) P. E. A. S. Cmara, S. mundulum (Sull.) P. E. A. S. Cmara, and Trichosteleum friedense (D. H. Norris & T. J. laevigatum P. E. A. S. Cmara is proposed for Hypnum trachaelocarpum Angstr. Lectotypifications are also provided for Sigmatella choiropyxis Mll. Hal. and Hypnum trachaelocarpum ngstr.
10.2307/3391863|A new species of Xyris has been found in the wet savanna lands of the Rupununi District, Guyana. Xyris dilatatiscapa is described, illustrated, and discussed as to its relationships with other Xyris.
10.2307/3393127|A new species from northern Guangxi, China, Chirita longii Z. Y. Li, is described.
10.2307/3392262|Two new species of the large African genus Moraea (125 species), M. rivulicola and M. regalis, both members of subgenus Vieusseuxia, are described here. Moraea rivulicola has cream to greenish flowers, unusually long capsules, and is a robust plant restricted to the banks and beds of seasonal streams in Namaqualand, in the northwestern part of South Africa. Moraea regalis is known from one locality, near De Rust in the Little Karoo, South Africa. Both species occur in the semiarid winter rainfall part of southern Africa, a region known for the richness and diversity of its flora. The genus Rheome, now believed to be most closely related to species of Moraea subg. Moraea, is reduced to synonymy, and the three species of Rheome are transferred to Moraea as M. maximiliani, M. nana, and M. umbellata.
10.2307/3391811|A new species of Pilocarpus Vahl (Rutaceae) from Peru is described and illustrated as Pilocarpus manuensis Skorupa. The new taxon is known only from the type locality in Parque Nacional Manu, Peru, and resembles Pilocarpus demerarae Sandwith from Guyana.
43288936|TWO new South American species of Tropaeolum L. (Tropaeolaceae), T. slanisii Bulacio from Salta, Argentina, and T. keslingii Bulacio from Tanja, Bolivia, found during a revision of the genus for the Flora of Argentina, are described, illustrated, and compared with related species. Both new species belong to Tropaeolum sect. Tropaeolum, which is characterized by the strongly heteromorphic petals, usually ciliate on the margins, and the entire or more or less deeply incised leaf blades. Se describen, ilustran y comparan dos nuevas especies de Tropaeolum L. (Tropaeolaceae), T. slanisii Bulacio de Salta, Argentina y T. kieslingii Bulacio de Tarija, Bolivia, descubiertas durante la revisin del gnero para la Flora Argentina. Ambas especies pertenecen a Tropaeolum secc. Tropaeolum, la cual se caracteriza por los ptalos marcadamente diferentes, ciliados en el margen y las lminas de las hojas enteras o ms o menos divididas.
3393538| Two new species of Encyclia Hooker (Orchidaceae: Laeliinae) are proposed from Venezuela, E. betancourtiana Carnevali & I. Ramrez and E. garciae-esquivelii Carnevali & I. Ramrez. The first, from Andean Venezuela, is related to E. aspera, but has a subquadrate labellum and grows at higher elevations. The second, from the northern slopes of the Coastal Range, is related to E. diurna but has smaller, differently colored flowers, a more elliptic central lobe, and grows in coastal thorn forests. /// Dos nuevas especies de Encyclia Hooker (Orchidaceae: Laeliinae) de Venezuela se proponen, Encyclia betancourtiana Carnevali & I. Ramrez y E. garciae-esquivelii Carnevali & I. Ramrez. La primera de estas, de la regin andina, est relacionada con E. aspera, pero el lbulo central es subcuadrado y crece a mayores elevaciones. La segunda, de la vertiente norte de la Cordillera de la Costa, est relacionada con E. diurna pero iene flores menores y de colores diferentes, un lbulo central ms elptico y crece en selvas espinosas costaneras. 
3393303|Arisaema menghaiense J. T. Yin, H. Li & Z. F. Xu. (sect. Pistillata Engler) is described and illustrated as a new species of Araceae from South Yunnan, China. It is closely related to Arisaema lobatum Engler in having a globose tuber, trifoliolate leaf blades, a unisexual spadix, and an erect cylindrical appendix. It differs in its epiphytic habit, the inflorescence that appears before the leaf, a green (female) or pale purple (male) spathe with a filiform acumen ca. 60 cm (male) or 25 cm (female) long, a pale green, erect, sessile cylindrical spadix appendix with a few acute neuter flowers basally and anther thecae opening by an apical slit.
23018509|Arundinella kerrii Teerawat. & Sungkaew and Dimeria kerrii Teerawat. & Sungkaew (Poaceae, Panicoideae) are validly published for the first time. Species descriptions and illustrations are provided for both taxa known only from collections from Thailand.
10.2307/3393075|The simple thalloid liverwort genus Petalophyllum J. G. C. Lehmann is removed from the Fossombroniaceae and sequestered in the new family Petalophyllaceae along with Sewardiella S. R. Kashyap, a monotypic genus endemic to the Indian subcontinent. Unlike the Fossombroniaceae, the thallus in the Petalophyllaceae is never dissected, the archegonia are clustered rather than scattered, a pseudoperianth is formed rather than a caulocalyx, and the capsule wall is 3-4-layered with outer wall thickenings, which are lacking in the Fossombroniaceae. The North American representative of Petalophyllum previously considered conspecific with the European taxon P. ralfsii (W. M. Wilson) J. G. C. Lehmann is here described as a distinct species, P. americanum. This is based upon clear differences of the thallus, pseudoperianth, and the elater spirals. Furthermore, the application of the name P. australis Colenso to New Zealand plants is shown to be incorrect; those plants previously referred there represent a new species, P. hodgsonii. This species resembles P. ralfsii, but differs from it in the broad, strongly flattened thallus midrib and structure of the female inflorescence.
10.2307/3393175|The new combination Hydrolea spinosa var. cervantesii (Brand) L. J. Davenport & A. Pool is proposed for the illegitimate name Hydrolea spinosa var. maior (Brand) L. J. Davenport.
3393474| A new genus, Johnstonia (Rhamnaceae, Gouanieae), is proposed for Gouania axilliflora M. C. Johnston, a species from Peru affined to Alvimiantha Grey-Wilson and Reissekia Endlicher, from which it differs by the sessile paired flowers in the axil of leaves; it is also distinct from Alvimiantha by the entire mericarps. The new combination Johnstonia axilliflora (M. C. Johnston) Tortosa is made. /// Se propone un nuevo gnero, Johnstonia (Rhamnaceae, Gouanieae), para Gouania axilliflora M. C. Johnston, una especie de Per afn a Alvimiantha Grey-Wilson and Reissekia Endlicher, de los cuales se diferencia por las flores geminadas ssiles en la axila de las hojas; tambin se distingue de Alvimiantha por los mericarpios enteros. Se establece la nueva combinacin Johnstonia axilliflora (M. C. Johnston) Tortosa. 
10.2307/3392207|A new species, Veronica laxissima, is described. Five new combinations, Pseudolysimachion rotundum (Nakai) Yamazaki subsp. coreanum (Nakai) Hong, P. rotundum subsp. subintegrum (Nakai) Hong, P. linarifolium (Pallas ex Link) Holub subsp. dilatatum (Nakai & Kitagawa) Hong, Veronica himalensis D. Don subsp. yunnanensis (Tsoong) Hong, and Veronicastrum brunonianum (Bentham) Hong subsp. sutchuenense (Franchet) Hong, are proposed. One genus, Sinobacopa, 12 species, and 2 infraspecific taxa are reduced to synonymy.
10.2307/3393166|The neotropical genus Amphidasya includes 13 species in northern South America and adjacent Central America. A key to all the species of this genus is presented; the new combination Amphidasya longicalycina (Dwyer) C. M. Taylor is made, based on Hoffmannia longicalycina Dwyer, for the most commonly collected species in Central America; and the following new species are described and illustrated: A. amethystina J. L. Clark & C. M. Taylor from western Ecuador, A. brevidentata C. M. Taylor from western Colombia, A. elegans C. M. Taylor from southwestern Colombia and central Ecuador, and A. panamensis C. M. Taylor from Panama.
10.2307/3392125|The genus Hylaea, restricted to Venezuelan-Brazilian Amazonia, is described here. Two new combinations, Hylaea arborescens and H. leptoloba, are proposed.
10.2307/3391816|A new autogamous species of Schiedea is described and illustrated. It is known only from cliff habitat in rainforest on a single ridge in the Natural Area Reserve, Hanawi, East Maui. With the addition of this species there are 28 species in this endemic Hawaiian genus. The new species appears to be most closely related to Schiedea nuttallii, a species of mesic habitats on O'ahu, Moloka'i, and Maui.
10.2307/3391583|Guatteria rupestris Mello-Silva & Pirani, a new species of Annonaceae, is described. It is distinct because of a combination of several characters, mainly the shrubby, sclerophyllous habit with small, coriaceous, and prominently veined leaves. The new species occurs in open rocky areas in some "serras" of the Espinhao range, Minas Gerais, Brazil. Besides the description and illustration, comments on its probable taxonomic relationships, habitat, and distribution are presented. A key that distinguishes G. rupestris from the other sympatric species of Guatteria is also provided.
3393550|A new species of the genus Ballota L. (Lamiaceae) is described from the western slopes of Mount Lebanon in an eastern Mediterranean climate. Ballota byblensis Semaan & R. M. Haber is distinguished by the following characters: perennial herb, suffrutescent, brittle; stem densely matted with patent tiny simple to long septate glandular trichomes, with few sessile glands; cauline leaves cordate, crenate, rugose, tomentose with glandular simple-stellate trichomes on both sides; inflorescence lax; verticillaster 6- to 19(22)-flowered; bracteoles many, filiform, glandular, shorter than calyx; calyx 9-10 mm long, infundibular, with glandular simple-stellate trichomes outside, appressed pilose-pubescent in the upper half inside; limb erecto-patent, oblique; teeth 10(11), unequal; corolla 16-18 mm long, pink-purple; seeds black.
10.2307/3392161|The new varietal combination Polygala glaucoides L. var. laotica (Gagnepain) Pendry is published herein. The taxon is known from Cambodia, Laos, Vietnam, and Thailand.
20406134|Four new species of Stachys L. from Mesoamerica, S. darcyana A. Pool, S. harleyana A. Pool, S. riparia A. Pool, and S. uniflora A. Pool, are described and their relationships with allied species are discussed. The new species are similar to each other in having stems rooting only at the lower nodes and corollas of various shades of pink or purple with the corolla tubes of medium size, 3.8-8 mm long. Stachys darcyana (Costa Rica and Panama) and S. harleyana (Chiapas, Mexico) have relatively large upper corolla lips (2.5-- 5 mm long) and the stamens exserted from the corolla tube 2.1-3.5 mm; the verticillasters in S. darcyana are 8- to 12-flowered and in S. harleyana 4- to 8-flowered. Stachys riparia (Costa Rica) and S. uniflora (Costa Rica and Panama) have relatively small upper corolla lips (1.1-2.25 mm long) and the stamens exserted from the corolla tube 0.5-1.25 mm; the verticillasters in S. riparia are 6- to 12-flowered and in S. uniflora the flowers are solitary in the axils of the leaves. /// Se describen cuatro especies nuevas de Stachys L. de Mesoamrica, S. darcyana A. Pool, S. harleyana A. Pool, S. riparia A. Pool y S. uniflora A. Pool, y se discute sus relaciones con especies aliadas. Las especies nuevas son similares entre s por tener tallos que enrazan slo en los nudos inferiores y corolas de varias gamas de rosa o purpreo con los tubos corolinos de tamao mediano, 3.8-8 mm de largo. Stachys darcyana (Costa Rica y Panam) y S. harleyana (Chiapas, Mxico) tienen los labios corolinos superiores relativamente largos, 2.5-5 mm de largo y los estambres exertos 2.1-3.5 mm del tubo corolino; los verticilastros en S. darcyana tienen de 8 a 12 flores y en S. harleyana de 4 a 8 flores. Stachys riparia (Costa Rica) y S. uniflora (Costa Rica y Panam) tienen los labios superiores corolinos relativamente pequeos (1.1-2.25 mm de largo) y los estambres exertos 0.5-- 1.25 mm del tubo corolino; los verticilastros en S. riparia tienen de 6 a 12 flores y en S. uniflora las flores son solitarias en las axilas de las hojas.
40856294|A new species from Brazil, Cordia pilosa M. Stapf & Taroda (Cordiaceae), is described from northeastern Brazil. Illustrations and data on habitat, distribution, and phenology are provided. The new species belongs to Cordia sect. Superbiorae Taroda, and it is distinguished from similar species in section Superbiflorae by its compact inflorescences and the pilose indument on the twigs, leaves, and inflorescence axes. Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie para el noreste de Brasil: Cordia pilosa M. Stapf & Taroda (Cordiaceae). Tambin se presentan datos sobre su habitat, distribucin y fenologa. Esta nueva especie pertenece a Cordia sect. Superbiflorae Taroda, y se distingue de las especies similares de la seccin Superbiflorae por sus inflorescencias compactas y sus ramas jvenes, hojas y ejes de las inflorescencias con indumento piloso.
10.2307/3392167|The combinations Matelea fulvida (F. Ballard) W. D. Stevens and Dictyanthus asper (Miller) W. D. Stevens are proposed to make them available for the forthcoming Flora de Nicaragua.
20406089|The new name Johnstonalia Tortosa replaces the illegitimate name Johnstonia Tortosa (Rhamnaceae). /// El nuevo nombre Johnstonalia Tortosa reemplaza al nombre ilegtimo Johnstonia Tortosa (Rhamnaceae).
10.2307/3393005|Stigmaphyllon hispidum, a new species of Malpighiaceae, is described from Bahia, Brazil, where it was collected in a remnant of coastal forest, a vegetation type called Mata Atlntica. Its floral structure and adaxial laminar vesture are most similar to those of S. gayanum, an endemic of the region of Rio de Janeiro. The dense axial vesture, composed of simple basifixed hairs mixed with Y-shaped hairs, is unique in the genus.
10.2307/3391691|Paspalum biaristatum, a perennial species of subgenus Ceresia, is described, illustrated, and compared to its putative sister species, the annual P. longiaristatum Davidse & Filgueiras, as well as to other species in the subgenus. A new section, Biaristata, is described to accommodate the new species and P. longiaristatum.
10.2307/3391872|As a result of a revision of Pilocarpus Vahl (Rutaceae), three new species of Pilocarpus Vahl (Rutaceae) from Brazil are described and illustrated: Pilocarpus alatus C. J. Joseph ex Skorupa, Pilocarpus carajaensis Skorupa, and Pilocarpus sulcatus Skorupa. Data on the geographic distribution, habitat, and phenology are given for all the new taxa.
10.2307/3393563| Three new species (Carlowrightia venturae, Justicia zamudioi, and Tetramerium carranzae) and a new combination (Mirandea hyssopus based on Rhytiglossa hyssopus Nees) are proposed for the acanthaceous flora of the region in central Mexico covered by the Flora del Bajo y de Regiones Adyacentes. Morphological and palynological characters are used to distinguish these taxa from their Mexican congeners. Studies of Acanthaceae in this region reveal the presence of 59 species (5 endemic) in 18 genera there. /// Tres especies nuevas (Carlowrightia venturae, Justicia zamudioi, y Tetramerium carranzae) y una combinacin nueva (Mirandea hyssopus basada en Rhytiglossa hyssopus Nees) se proponen para la flora de acantceas de la regin de Mxico central cubierta por la Flora del Bajo y de Regiones Adyacentes. Los caracteres morfolgicos y palinolgicos se utilizan para distinguir estos taxa de sus congneres mexicanos. Los estudios de Acanthaceae en sta regin revelan la presencia de 59 especies (5 endmicas) en 18 gneros all. 
10.2307/3391884|Two new species, Urtica peruviana and U. pseudomagellanica, are described from Peru and Bolivia, respectively. Also, the new combinations U. lilloi (Hauman) Geltman and U. magellanica subsp. bracteata (Steudel) Geltman are made.
10.2307/3391449|Tigridia estelae sp. nov. from Durango, Mexico, is described and illustrated. It belongs to the T. multiflora complex and is closely related to T. matudae, from which it differs in the length of style branches, the position and blotching of the tepals, and in its habitat.
20406332|A new species of Malaxis Solander ex Swartz (Orchidaceae, Epidendroideae, Malaxideae), M. medinae Carnevali & Noguera Savelli, from Trujillo State in Andean Venezuela is proposed herein. The new taxon is related to the widespread M. soulei L. O. Williams, a species found from the southwestern United States southward into Panama. The plants, however, are smaller (to only 12.7 cm) and have proportionally longer peduncles (to 4.5 cm) that bear fewer flowers (12 to 25 per spike) with a much more triangular labellum with parallel apical teeth (vs. convergent in M. soulei). /// Una nueva especie de Malaxis Solander ex Swartz (Orchidaceae, Epidendroideae, Malaxideae), M. medinae Carnevali & Noguera Savelli, del estado Trujillo en los Andes venezolanos, es propuesta en este artculo. El nuevo taxn est relacionado cercanamente con la ampliamente distribuida M. soulei L. O. Williams, conocida desde el suroeste de los Estados Unidos hasta Panam. Las plantas de M. medinae son ms pequeas (solo hasta 12.7 cm) con pednculos proporcionalmente ms largos (hasta 4.5 cm) y con menos flores (12 a 25 por espiga) con un labelo ms triangular con dientes apicales paralelos (vs. convergentes en M. soulei).
10.2307/3393235|Bernardia fonsecae, endemic to Guerrero, Mexico, is described and illustrated, and habitat data are provided. Bernardia fonsecae is morphologically similar to B. mollis Lundell. They have in common long petioles, similar shape and size of the staminate bract, and a lobulate intrastaminal disc. Bernardia fonsecae differs from B. mollis in its leaf base and leaf shape, vestiture of the adaxial surface of the leaf, vestiture of the abaxial veins, diameter of the cicatricoso-crateriform glands, position of the staminate inflorescence, and number of stamens, among other characteristics.
10.2307/3391679|Six new species of Bignoniaceae from upper Amazonia are described as Arrabidaea affinis, Cuspidaria emmonsii, Distictis occidentalis, Haplolophium nunezii, Schlegelia cauliflora, and Schlegelia hirsuta. In addition, merger of Urbanolophium with Haplolophium is proposed, necessitating the new combination H. glaziovii.
23018463|The new name Papaver setiferum Goldblatt (Papaveraceae) is proposed for P. pseudoorientale (Fedde) Medw. (1918), which is a homonym for a plant of that name coined by E. G. Camus in 1898 for the hybrid P. orientale L.  P. lateritium K. Koch, described in detail but not named by J. R. Jungner in 1889.
10.2307/3392010|Coleogeton and Stuckenia are based on the same type species. Stuckenia has priority over Coleogeton, making Coleogeton superfluous. All necessary new combinations for taxa that occur in North America are proposed for use in the Flora of North America. These combinations include S. filiformis subsp. alpina and S. filiformis subsp. occidentalis.
20406204|The genus Rollinsia Al-Shehbaz is reduced to synonymy of Dryopetalon A. Gray (Brassicaceae), and the characters distinguishing the latter from Sibara Greene and Thelypodiopsis Rydberg are discussed. An expanded description of Dryopetalon (southern United States and northern Mexico) and a key, synonymies, and distributions of its eight species are presented. The new combinations D. breedlovei (Rollins) Al-Shehbaz, D. byei (Rollins) Al-Shehbaz, D. paysonii (Rollins) Al-Shehbaz, and D. viereckii (O. E. Schulz) Al-Shehbaz are proposed. Dryopetalon purpureum Rollins is reduced to synonymy of D. palmeri (S. Watson) O. E. Schulz, and D. crenatum var. racemosum Rollins and D. runcinatum var. laxiflorum Rollins are reduced to synonymy of their respective species. Arabis endlichii O. E. Schulz is lectotypified.
20406252|One new species for Polygalaceae from Brazil is described, illustrated, and compared with related species of Polygala L. subg. Hebeclada (Chodat) S. F. Blake. Polygala marquesiana J. F. B. Pastore & T. B. Cavalcanti is an attractive caespitose subshrub from the state of Gois, occurring in the high-altitude areas of Serra Geral do Paran in the central part of the Brazilian savannas. /// Urna nova espcie de Polygalaceae para o Brasil  descrita, ilustrada e comparada com espcies relacionadas de Polygala L. subgnero Hebeclada (Chodat) S. F. Blake. Polygala marquesiana J. F. B. Pastore & T. B. Cavalcanti  um belo subarbusto do estado de Gois, que ocorre em elevadas altitudes da Serra Geral do Paran, na poro central do cerrado brasileiro.
23018483|Alpinia oui Y. H. Tseng & Chih C. Wang, a new species of Zingiberaceae from southeastern Taiwan, is described and illustrated. This new species belongs to subgenus Alpinia Roxb. sect. Alpinia subsect. Catimbium (Horan.) R. M. Sm. It resembles A. zerumbet (Pers.) B. L. Burtt & R. M. Sm. in the shape and size of the flowers, but differs in the denser inflorescences and the dense brown pubescence of the capsules. According to the IUCN Red List Categories and Criteria, this species is assessed as Vulnerable (VU D1), because its wild populations number less than 1000 individuals and are so far known from only one locality in southeastern Taiwan.
10.2307/3391895|Scutellaria ebracteata, in section Cardinalis Epling, from Nicaragua, and S. tenuipetiolata in section Uliginosae Epling, from Costa Rica, are described, and identification keys to section Cardinalis as found in Honduras, Nicaragua, and Costa Rica and section Uliginosae as found in Nicaragua and Costa Rica are provided. The identity of Scutellaria nicaraguensis Sess & Mocio is discussed, and the type locality of S. purpurascens var. heterophylla Bentham is clarified and its affinity to other taxa is considered.
10.2307/3391499|Continuing studies in Myrsinaceae for Flora de Colombia revealed a heretofore undescribed species of Ardisia closely related to Ardisia pittieri Mez of Costa Rica and Panama.
10.2307/3393139|The following new species are described: Hippotis stellata C. M. Taylor & Rova, found from eastern Panama to northwestern Ecuador and distinguished by its closely grouped or possibly stellate trichomes; Pentagonia angustifolia C. M. Taylor, found in western Panama and formerly confused with P. nuciformis Dwyer; P. dwyeriana C. M. Taylor, found in western Panama and formerly confused with P. macrophylla Bentham; Pentagonia monocaulis C. M. Taylor, found in eastern Costa Rica and formerly confused with P. donnell-smithii (Standley) Standley; and Pentagonia sanblasensis C. M. Taylor, found in central Panama and also formerly confused with P. macrophylla. The new combination H. panamensis (Dwyer) C. M. Taylor is based on Duroia panamensis Dwyer, and a description is presented for this poorly known species, which is actually the most commonly collected species of Hippotis in Central America and adjacent northwestern Colombia.
43288941|Polygala sect. Gymnospora Chodat (Polygalaceae) is recognized at the generic rank based on recent phylogenetic evidence as Gymnospora (Chodat) J. F. B. Pastore with two new combinations, G. bianchetti (Chodat) J. F. B. Pastore and G. violoides (A. St.-Hil. & Moq.) J. F. B. Pastore. We also present a taxonomic key for species identification and argue that P. bianchetti Chodat should not be treated as a synonym of P. pedicellaris A. St.-Hil. & Moq. and that P. pedicellaris is better treated as a synonym of P. violoides A. St.-Hil. & Moq. (as G. violoides). Thus, the name P. bianchetti (as G. blanchetii) is established, in keeping with its traditional treatment. Lectotypifications are provided for the following five names: P. blanchetii, P. laxa Nes & Mart., P. martima Veil., P. pedicellaris, and P. violoides. Polygala seao Gymnospora Chodat (Polygalaceae)  reconhecida com status genrico, como Gymnospora (Chodat) J. F. B. Pastore, baseado nas evidencias filogenticas. Nos apresentamos duas novas combinaoes G. blanchetii (Chodat) J. F. B. Pastore e G. violoides (A. St.-Hil. & Moq.) J. F. B. Pastore, urna chave taxonmica para identificaao das duas especies e defendemos que P. blanchetii Chodat nao deveria ser tratada como um sinonimo de P. pedicellaris . St.-Hil. & Moq., enquanto que P. pedicellaris  melhor tratada como sinonimo de P. violoides A. St.-Hil. & Moq. (como G. violoides). Assim, o nome P. blanchetii (corno G. blanchetii)  estabelecido, maniendo o seu tratamento mais tradicional. So tambm indicados lecttipos para os seguintes nomes: P. blanchetii, P. laxa Nes & Mart., P. martima Veil., P. pedicellaris e P. violoides.
10.2307/3392965|A new genus in the Gesneriaceae, Cremospermopsis L. E. Skog & L. P. Kvist, is described from the very humid forests in the Colombian departments of Antioquia and adjacent Bolvar. The new genus of two species, C. cestroides and C. parviflora, is similar and may be related to Cremosperma, but differs in having inflorescence bracts, unequal calyx lobes, and spherical papillate seeds.
10.2307/3393575|Another species in Microlicia (Melastomataceae) is described and illustrated. Microlicia obtusifolia is known from the rocky slopes of Diamantina, Minas Gerais, Brazil. Microlicia obtusifolia Cogniaux ex R. Romero is distinguished from affined species (M. pusilla Cogniaux) by its obovate, 1- to 3-nerved leaves with obtuse apices and attenuate bases.
10.2307/3391934|A new genus, Xenophyllum, is described, which consists of 21 species extracted from Werneria s.l. (Compositae: Senecioneae). All members of this new genus are mat- or hummock-forming perennials that grow at high elevations (3000-5200 m) in the Andes from Colombia to northern Argentina and northern Chile. Included is a brief description of the disposition of the species of Werneria s.l. and a preliminary key to those included in Xenophyllum.
10.2307/3391607|A new combination, Guadua chacoensis, is made. Based on morphological evidence, G. chacoensis appears closely allied to G. trinii. A detailed illustration of the species is included, and morphological descriptions and illustrations of the seedling and fruit are provided.
10.2307/3391585|Two new combinations in Ichnocarpus and one new combination in Anodendron are proposed.
20406210|Tetracera forzzae Fraga & Aymard (Dilleniaceae), urna nova espcie da Zona da Mata de Minas Gerais, Brasil,  descrita, ilustrada e comparada com suas espcies afins. A nova espcie aparenta-se com T. empedoclea Gilg, T. portobellensis Beurling e T. parviflora (Rusby) Sleumer, diferindo destas por apresentar tricomas simples e estrelados na face adaxial da folha, sete spalas alm de ptalas com 7-8 mm de comprimento. Esta nova espcie  conhecida apenas da Zona da Mata de Minas Gerais, e  a quarta espcie Neotropical do gnero a apresentar apenas um carpelo. De acordo com os critrios da IUCN Red List das plantas em perigo essa espcie foi enquadrada na categoria em perigo. /// Tetracera forzzae Fraga & Aymard (Dilleniaceae), a new species from Brazil, is described and illustrated, and its relationships are discussed. The new species is morphologically related to T. empedoclea Gilg, T. portobellensis Beurling, and T. parviflora (Rusby) Sleumer; however, T. forzzae can be distinguished by its flowers with seven sepals, petals 7-8 mm long, and the leaves with simple and stellate trichomes on the adaxial surface. This new species is known only from the Zona da Mata of the state of Minas Gerais, and is the fourth Neotropical species of this genus so far discovered with a single carpel. According to the criteria of the IUCN Red List of endangered plant species this species is assigned to the EN (Endangered) category.
10.2307/3391383|Ophiochloa is described and illustrated as a new, monotypic genus and new species of the Digitariinae, Paniceae, from Goias, Brazil, characterized by ligules a row of hairs, solitary, unilateral, winged racemes that end in a sterile projection, adaxial spikelets, specialized, narrow 2-nerved lower lemma with 2 prominent setae, and hyaline, free, upper lemma and palea tips. It is a C<sub>4</sub> grass with Kranz anatomy. Its putative relationships are discussed. The new species is a narrow, serpentine endemic that grows on rocks along intermittent or permanent streams in the ultramafic rock belt of the cerrado of central Brazil.
3393428| While revising Rhynchospora sect. Pluriflorae Kkenthal, two species new to science were discovered and are described here. Furthermore, two new combinations are proposed, and lectotypifications of two of Kkenthal's names are proposed. The morphological variability of the species is discussed and related to their geographic distribution. /// Durante a reviso taxonmica de Rhynchospora sect. Pluriflorae Kkenthal, foram encontradas duas novas espcies para a Cincia, as quais esto sendo descritas neste trabalho. Alm disso, duas novas combinaes esto sendo propostas. So tambem propostas a lectotipificao de duas espcies de Kkenthal. A variabilidade morfolgica das espcies e discutida e relacionada com dados de distribuio geogrfica. 
10.2307/3393081|Three species of Symplocos are newly described from Panama and Costa Rica. Symplocos morii Almeda & L. Kelly, known from high-elevation western Panama, is distinguished by coriaceous leaves with entire and revolute margins, short, glabrous styles, and white fruits. Symplocos naniflora L. Kelly & Almeda is a low-elevation Costa Rican species with serrate leaf margins, small flowers, densely villous styles, and small fruits. Symplocos elliptica L. Kelly & Almeda, known from Cerro Hornito and Cerro Sapo, Panama, is distinguished by broadly elliptic leaves with crenate-denticulate margins and solitary flowers. All three species are likely members of Symplocos sect. Symplocastrum Brand based on their basally connate stamens that are adnate to the petals.
10.2307/3392200|Platymiscium curuense N. Zamora & Klitgaard (Papilionoideae: Dalbergieae), a new species from Costa Rica, is described and illustrated, and its taxonomic affinities are discussed.
10.2307/3392015|El gnero Lacmellea en Mesoamrica es tratado en una breve sinopsis. En adicin, una nueva especie de Lacmellea de Costa Rica, L. zamorae, es descrita e ilustrada. /// A brief synopsis of the genus Lacmellea in Mesoamerica is provided. Keys, exsiccatae, and descriptions are included. In addition, a new Costa Rican species of Lacmellea, L. zamorae, is described and illustrated.
10.2307/3391860|Chaptalia hintonii Bullock, endemic to Mexico, has floral characters that indicate affinities to the genus Gerbera. A new nomenclatural combination, Gerbera hintonii (Bullock) Katinas, is proposed, and a redescription and illustration of the species is presented. The differences between Chaptalia and Gerbera, and the relationships between G. hintonii and the allied sections of Gerbera, are discussed.
10.2307/3392979|The previously monotypic Neomartinella is expanded to include two additional species. Neomartinella grandiflora is described as new, and the new combination N. yungshunensis is proposed. Neomartinella is revised, and its relationship to Eutrema is discussed.
20406015|Three taxa found in the high mountains of East Africa are transferred from Philippia Klotzsch to Erica L., resulting in the following new combinations: Erica johnstonii (Schweinfurth ex Engler) Dorr, E. trimera subsp. abyssinica (Pichi-Sermolli & Heiniger) Dorr, and E. trimera subsp. meruensis (R. Ross) Dorr. A neotype is selected for Philippia johnstonii Schweinfurth ex Engler, which is the basionym of E. johnstonii. A key to the five subspecies of E. trimera (Engler) Beentje also is provided.
10.2307/3391788|Three new Andean species of the genus Huberia DC. are described and illustrated. These species were found between 1500 and 3350 m in restricted areas of northwestern Peru. The presence of staminodes in H. staminodia represents a new record for this floral structure for Huberia. A key is also provided for the four species of Huberia occurring in the Andean region: H. cogniauxii, H. peruviana, H. staminodia, and H. weberbaueriana.
10.2307/3391992|Two new orders, Tofieldiales and Nartheciales, are proposed for two phylogenetically isolated groups of monocotyledonous families, Tofieldiaceae and Nartheciaceae, long associated with a polyphyletic Melanthiales. Tofieldiales is better considered a member of the Alismatidae, being tentatively considered a member of the Alismatanae and the sister group of Alismatales (s.l.). Nartheciales remains a member of the Liliidae, forming a basal group within Lilianae.
20406100|Agave vazquezgarciae Chzaro & J. A. Lomel, a new species from the Sierra de Manantln Biosphere Reserve, Sierra de Cacoma, and Sierra de Cuale in southern Jalisco, Mexico, is described and illustrated. It belongs to subgenus Littaea (Tagliabue) Baker, group Amolae, and appears to be closely related to A. pedunculifera Trelease, which also occurs in western Mexico, including Jalisco. It differs from the latter in having a taller spike, much larger flowers, and firm, fibrous leaves that are narrower and have a larger, stouter terminal spine. /// Se describe e ilustra Agave vazquezgarciae Chzaro & J. A. Lomel especie nueva de la Reserva de la Biosfera Sierra de Manantln, Sierra de Cacoma y la Sierra de Cuale en el sur de Jalisco, Mxico. Pertenece al subgnero Littaea (Tagliabue) Baker, grupo Amolae y parece estar cercanamente relacionada a A. pedunculifera Trelease, la cual tambin habita en el oeste de Mxico, incluyendo Jalisco. Difiere de sta por una espiga ms larga, flores mucho ms grandes, hojas firmes, fibrosas y estrechas y espinas terminales ms firmes y largas.
10.2307/3393067|A new species of Phaseolus (Leguminosae, Phaseolinae) has been found in the montane forests of the Sierra de Talamanca in eastern Costa Rica, where it appears endemic. Distinctive traits include: radicant roots, purplish red internodes, veins of leaflets, primary bracts, inner face of standard, and wings. Differences with related taxa of Costa Rica and other parts of Central America are discussed, namely the smaller and rounded primary bracts as compared to P. macrolepis, and the radicant fibrous root system as compared to P. xanthotrichus.
23259411|Tropical seagrass communities are one of the most productive aquatic ecosystems on earth. A high diversity of seagrass species occurs in south-eastern Africa; however, these marine angiosperms are among the least studied in the world. To address this, we have revised Thalassodendron Hartog (Cymodoceaceae), one of the most representative seagrasses in these coastal waters. Morpho-anatomical analyses, complemented with field data, reveal that specimens from rocky habitats present a number of distinguishing characters (e.g., rhizome internode lengths, leaf epidermal cells, and flower structures) that recommend their exclusion from the species T. ciliatum (Forssk.) Hartog. A new species from rocky habitats, T. leptocaule Maria C. Duarte, Bandeira & Romeiras, is thus described and illustrated, with the type from Mozambique, and an identification key for the investigated taxa is presented.
10.2307/3393160|Review of the sectional nomenclature for the treatment of Carex for the Flora of North America disclosed a number of deficiencies in the currently accepted sectional names. Three sectional names needed typification, including Carex sect. Firmiculmes, lectotypified with C. geyeri, Carex sect. Inflatae, lectotypified with C. breweri, and Carex sect. Leptocephalae, lectotypified with C. leptalea. Several earlier names than those in use in recent monographs were also discovered, including Carex sect. Racemosae for Carex sect. Microrhynchae (Carex sect. Atratae), Carex sect. Thuringiaca for Carex sect. Glaucae, and Carex sect. Dornera for Carex sect. Callistachys. Two sectional names in common use, Carex sect. Hispidae, sect, nov., and Carex sect. Longicaules, sect, nov., were not published with Latin descriptions nor reference to previously published descriptions and are here validly published and precisely circumscribed. Finally, two new sections are proposed to accommodate North American species that did not fit adequately into existing sections. These are Carex sect. Glaucesentes, sect. nov., for four species of large, glaucous clump-forming wetland sedges with papillose perigynia and Carex sect. Hirtifoliae, sect, nov., a monotypic section for C. hirtifolia, a distinctive, pubescent-leaved forest understory species with long-beaked perigynia with nerveless faces.
20406231|Polypsecadium apolobamba Al-Shehbaz & A. Fuentes (Brassicaceae), a new species from Bolivia, is described and illustrated. It is readily distinguished from the other Bolivian species P. harmsianum (Muschler) O. E. Schulz by having uniseriate seeds, pilose leaves, and longer fruits, and from P. rusbyi (Britton) Al-Shehbaz by having shorter non-torulose fruits, smaller petals, and shorter and curved fruiting pedicels.
10.2307/3391810|A new species of Elvasia, E. bisepala, is described from Belize and Honduras. Elvasia bisepala possesses unique characters that help to clarify subgeneric classification in the genus and further expands the distribution of Elvasia from South America well into Central America. The new species is described and illustrated, and the subgeneric classification of Elvasia is reviewed and revised.
10.2307/3391744|A new combination in the Cactaceae, Opuntia lutea (Rose) Solomon, is needed to bring one of the species treated in the Flora de Nicaragua into conformity with the generic concepts utilized in the Flora.
20406183|Emmotum harleyi R. Duno (Icacinaceae), a new species of Emmotum Desvaux, is described, illustrated, and compared with E. nitens (Bentham) Miers. This new species from Bahia, Brazil, is distinguished by leaves densely tomentose abaxially with large and crisped hairs, secondary nerves 9 to 11, and ovary glabrous. Furthermore, lectotypes for E. nitens (Bentham) Miers and Mappia racemosa Jacquin var. brachycarpa Grisebach are designated.
10.2307/3391994|Leptochloa srilankensis N. Snow is described and diagnosed from the morphologically similar L. decipiens subsp. asthenes (formerly L. ciliolata) and previously misidentified specimens of L. panicea subsp. panicea. The species is restricted to Sri Lanka and is known from only five collections.
27765230|The new species Brickellia jimenezii Hinojosa & Cruz Durn (Asteraceae, Eupatorieae) is described from Guerrero, Mexico. It belongs to the Barroetea A. Gray complex within Brickellia Elliot, and is similar to B. subuligera (Schauer) B. L. Turner. The new species presents heads with more florets ([45 to]74 to 106 vs. 30 to 50 in B. subuligera), larger style branches and anthers (to 3.7 mm and 2.1 mm, respectively, vs. to 2 mm and to 1.3 mm, respectively, in B. subuligera), as well as cypselae with four well-defined ribs on each face (vs. none or two on the exterior face and none or one on the interior face in B. subuligera). A key to this species complex and an illustration of the new species are provided. Se describe la especie nueva Brickellia jimenezii Hinojosa & Cruz Durn (Asteraceae, Eupatorieae) proveniente del estado de Guerrero, Mxico. Esta especie pertenece al complejo Barroetea A. Gray de Brickellia Elliot, y est ms emparentada con B. subuligera (Schauer) B. L. Turner. La especie nueva presenta cabezuelas con ms flores ([45 a]74 a 106 vs. 30 a 50 en B. subuligera), ramas del estilo y anteras ms grandes (hasta 3.7 mm y 2.1 mm, respectivamente, vs. hasta 2 mm y 1.3 mm, respectivamente, en B. subuligera), as como cipselas con cuatro costillas bien definidas en cada lado (vs. ninguna o dos en el lado exterior y ninguna o una en el interior en B. subuligera.). Se proporcionan una clave para este complejo de especies y una ilustracin de la especie nueva.
10.2307/3392971|Reinstatement of segregate genera and the accompanying recombinations for species in the former polyphyletic Zigadenus complex allow for a revised, practical taxonomy that defines monophyletic groups and reflects phylogenetic relationships within tribe Melanthieae (Melanthiaceae). Nine new species combinations result from recircumscription of Zigadenus Michaux and Stenanthium (A. Gray) Kunth and from recognition of Anticlea Kunth and Toxicoscordion Rydberg. The genus Stenanthella Rydberg and the basionyms for Stenanthium leimanthoides (A. Gray) Zomlefer & Judd (Amianthium leimanthoides A. Gray) and Anticlea sachalinensis (F. Schmidt) Zomlefer & Judd (Stenanthium sachalinense F. Schmidt) are lectotypified.
20406045|Three new species of Eriocaulaceae belonging to genus Actinocephalus (Krnicke) Sano are recognized: Actinocephalus aggregatus F. N. Costa, A. deflexus F. N. Costa, and A. graminifolius F. N. Costa. These species are endemic to the Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brazil. They are placed in Actinocephalus based on the presence of the inflorescences composed of capitula in umbels, besides other floral and vegetative characteristics common to the genus. Comments about habitat and geographic distribution of the species are also presented. Trs espcies novas de Eriocaulaceae pertencentes ao gnero Actinocephalus (Krnicke) Sano so descritas: Actinocephalus aggregatus F. N. Costa, A. deflexus F. N. Costa e A. graminifolius F. N. Costa. Estas espcies so endmicas da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. Elas foram alocadas em Actinocephalus baseado na presena de inflorescncias compostas por captulos em umbelas, alm de outras caractersticas florais e vegetativas comuns ao gnero. Tambm so apresentados comentrios sobre o habitat e a distribuio geogrfica das espcies.
20406031|A new species of Magnoliaceae, Magnolia amabilis Y. K. Sima & Y. H. Wang, from Yunnan, China, is described and illustrated. The new species resembles Magnolia dianica Y. K. Sima & Figlar in the stipules adnate to the petiole and the petioles short, not exceeding 10 mm, and in the tepals 6 to more, 3- to 4-merous, subsimilar; it differs in its leaves oblanceolate to narrowly elliptic, glaucous beneath, with nerves in 13 to 17 pairs, in its tepals contracted-acute at the apex, and in its mature carpels, glabrous, dark green, tawny-black when dry.
20406122|The new species Onosma riedliana Binzet & Orcan (Boraginaceae) in subsection Asterotricha (Boissier) Grke is described and illustrated. The species is restricted to the north of Glnar (Mersin Province, southern Turkey). Diagnostic morphological characters for detailed discrimination from the most closely similar taxa are discussed.
20406138|Historically, taxonomic delimitation of Mandevilla Lindley, a large Neotropical genus of Apocynaceae, has been controversial. Two competing classifications were proposed by Woodson (1933) and Pichon (1948), the former now being widely accepted by taxonomists in the family. Recent phylogenetic studies, however, support the monophyly of Mandevilla sensu Pichon rather than sensu Woodson, the latter being paraphyletic with respect to Quiotania Zarucchi, Macrosiphonia Mller Argoviensis, and Telosiphonia (Woodson) Henrickson. Based on the principle of monophyly, we here re-establish Pichon's classification and include Quiotania, Macrosiphonia, and Telosiphonia as synonyms of Mandevilla. Three new combinations are made here: Mandevilla hesperia (I. M. Johnston) A. O. Simes, L. S. Kinoshita-Gouva & M. E. Endress, M. nacalpulensis (Felger & Henrickson) A. O. Simes, L. S. Kinoshita-Gouva & M. E. Endress, and M. undulata (C. Ezcurra) A. O. Simes, L. S. Kinoshita-Gouva & M. E. Endress; Q. colombiana Zarucchi is newly synonymized with M. ligustriflora Woodson; and a lectotype is designated for M. martii (Mller Argoviensis) Pichon.
3393289|A new subtribal classification for principally North American genera of Cichorieae allows for a practical taxonomy that reflects recent phylogenetic hypotheses. We propose the new subtribes Lygodesmiinae (for Chaetadelpha, Lygodesmia sensu Tomb, and Shinnersoseris), Pinaropappinae (for Marshalljohnstonia and Pinaropappus), Pyrrhopappinae (for Picrosia and Pyrrhopappus), and three monogeneric subtribes (Glyptopleurinae (Glyptopleura), Krigiinae (Krigia), and Phalacroseridinae (Phalacroseris)) for taxa previously treated in Malacothricinae, Microseridinae, and Stephanomeriinae. We recognize novel circumscriptions for Malacothricinae (Anisocoma, Atrichoseris, Calycoseris, and Malacothrix), Microseridinae (Agoseris, Microseris, Nothocalais, Stebbinsoseris, and Uropappus), and Stephanomeriinae (Munzothamnus, Pleiacanthus, Prenanthella, Rafinesquia, and Stephanomeria). The revised classification provides a more precise taxonomic representation of relationships among genera, insofar as robust resolution of monophyletic groups currently allows.
27765208|Eleocharis gonzaleziae D. J. Rosen, a new species from the high plateau of northern Mexico, is described from the state of Durango and illustrated. Taxonomic notes on the new species are provided, including a comparison to a morphologically similar species, E. bolanderi A. Gray. Eleocharis gonzaleziae D. J. Rosen, una nueva especie del Altiplano del Mxico norteo, se describe del estado de Durango y se ilustra. Las notas taxonmicas sobre la nueva especie se proporcionan, incluyendo una comparacin a una especie morfolgicamente parecida, E. bolanderi A. Gray.
10.2307/3391737|Lobelia guerrerensis is a new species endemic to pine, pine-oak, and mixed deciduous forests of the Sierra Madre del Sur in Guerrero, Mexico. Though collected several times over the past 60 years, the specimens were consistently misidentified as the narrow-leaved phase of L. laxiflora. Detailed phenetic analyses, however, have showed them to be morphologically quite distinct. In addition, several new combinations needed for a forthcoming checklist of world Campanulaceae are published.
10.2307/3392098|The new species Faramea correae C. M. Taylor, F. permagnifolia Dwyer ex C. M. Taylor, F. sanblasensis C. M. Taylor, Psychotria deneversii C. M. Taylor, P. purpureocapitata Dwyer ex C. M. Taylor, Rudgea hemisphaerica Dwyer ex C. M. Taylor, R. mandevilliifolia Dwyer ex C. M. Taylor, and R. mcphersonii Dwyer ex C. M. Taylor are described and illustrated, and the new combination Rudgea panamensis (Dwyer) C. M. Taylor is made based on Cephalis panamensis Dwyer.
10.2307/3391791|Grimmia involucrata is a Mexican endemic that has been confused with G. affinis, G. americana, and G. tergestina. It is recognized here as a valid, morphologically distinct species characterized by clavate stems, a gonioautoicous condition, differentiated perichaetial leaves, immersed sporophytes, and the smooth basal third of the outer plate of the peristome teeth. It is illustrated herein.
10.2307/3391429|Subtribe Vargasiellinae, proposed by C. Schweinfurth in 1952, is here validated. It is placed in tribe Maxillarieae, rather than in the Malaxideae, as originally proposed by Schweinfurth, based on new findings on the pollinarium structure of Vargasiella peruviana C. Schweinfurth.
20406107|Since the 19th century, the taxonomic identity of Musa rosea Baker has been uncertain to most botanists. Review of the history and descriptions of M. rosea based on the work of different scientists from 1893 to the present was done to establish its true identity. Musa angcorenis Gagnepain has been even more obscure since the early 20th century. The aim of this study was to clarify the taxonomic history, identity, and the synonymy of M. angcorensis and M. rosea, with M. angcorensis determined to be a synonym of M. rosea. A lectotype of M. rosea is designated here, and M. angcorensis is synonymized to M. rosea.
10.2307/3391855|Two new Andean species from Ecuador and Colombia are described in the genus Ribes. Ribes erectum is a shrubby species characterized by elliptic and mostly unlobed leaves, sessile glands, erect inflorescences, cup-shaped flowers, and ovaries with only sessile glands. Ribes austroecuadorense is characterized by ovate and 3-lobed to 3-cleft leaves, erect inflorescences, cup-shaped flowers, and pubescent ovaries. Both species are illustrated and discussed in a systematic context. /// Se describen dos especies nuevas andinas del gnero cosmopolita Ribes provenientes de Ecuador y Colombia. Ribes erectum es una especie arbustiva que se caracteriza por sus hojas elpticas y enteras, glndulas ssiles, inflorescencias erectas, flores cupuliformes y ovario nicamente con glndulas ssiles. Ribes austroecuadorense se caracteriza por sus hojas ovadas y 3-lobadas a 3-divididas, inflorescencias erectas, flores cupuliformes y ovarios densamente pubescentes. Ambas especies son ilustradas y discutidas en un contexto sistemtico.
20406070|Se describe Wigandia ecuadorensis Cornejo, una nueva especie de arbusto o arbolillo, endmica del fragmentado y disturbado bosque muy seco tropical, en la provincia de Manab, en la costa del Ecuador. Es parecida a W. urens (Ruiz & Pavn) Kunth s.l., de la que difiere por presentar ovarios ms grandes (5-8 mm vs. 3-4 mm); estilos de mayor longitud (16-28 mm vs. (4--)6-12(--15) mm); estambres con filamentos completamente glabros versus provistos de pelos hspidos, patentes a retrorsos; y corolas ms grandes (2-3.5 cm), con lbulos divergentes versus corolas ms pequeas (1.2-1.5(--2) cm), con lbulos patentes a ms o menos reflexos. Por sus cualidades de colonizadora subleosa y elevada tolerancia a los bajos niveles de precipitacin, esta nueva especie podra ser utilizada para recuperar la vegetacin nativa, y para proteccin de suelos poco consolidados en las reas de bosque muy seco tropical de la costa de Ecuador y la adyacente esquina noroccidental de Per. /// Wigandia ecuadorensis Cornejo is a new shrubby to treelet species restricted to the fragmented and disturbed tropical dry forests in the province of Manab, on the coast of Ecuador. It is somewhat similar to W. urens (Ruiz & Pavn) Kunth s.l. but differs by having larger ovaries (5-8 mm vs. 3-4 mm), longer styles (16-28 mm vs. (4--)6-12(--15) mm), filaments completely glabrous versus pubescent with patent to retrorse hispid trichomes, and larger corollas (2-3.5 cm) with divergent lobes versus smaller ones (1.2-1.5(--2) cm) with patent to more or less reflexed lobes. This new species is a subwoody colonizer in sunny, open places, having a high tolerance to low moisture levels; it may be used to recover the native vegetation and also to protect the loose soils in the very dry tropical forest life zone of coastal Ecuador and northwesternmost Peru.
20406215|Two new species in the Navarretia pubescens (Bentham) Hooker & Arnott complex of section Mitracarpium Brand are described: N. gowenii L. A. Johnson and N. ojaiensis Elvin, J. M. Porter & L. A. Johnson. Navarretia gowenii is known from disjunct locations in Contra Costa and Stanislaus counties of California. Navarretia ojaiensis is known from Ventura County, California. Additionally, examination of type specimens suggests N. mitracarpa Greene, presently placed in synonymy under N. pubescens, be recognized as a species distinct from the latter taxon, whereas N. jaredii Eastwood be recognized as a synonym of N. mitracarpa.
3393547|Ancistrocarphus keilii, a distinctive, rarely collected, previously undescribed, and recently rediscovered species endemic to Santa Barbara County, California, is formally named. Diaperia is resurrected for three North American species usually placed in, but clearly distinct from, Evax. The name Evax verna is neotypified to be consistent with current usage that includes Evax multicaulis (as a new synonym), and the new combinations Diaperia verna and Diaperia verna var. drummondii are provided. Diaperia prolifera var. barnebyi, a long-collected but previously undescribed variety from southeastern New Mexico, western Texas, and southwestern Oklahoma, is also formally named. Among Cassini's anagrammatic segregates from Filago, the priority of Logfia over Oglifa is at best ambiguous, but is adopted to preserve current usage in the Old World, pending a proposal to conserve. A priorable epithet being available, the new combination Logfia filaginoides is made for the species long known as Filago californica (newly synonymized), including Filago californica var. tomentosa (also a new synonym). The correct basionym of Oglifa is established as Gnaphalium subg. Oglifa, contrary to earlier interpretations.
10.2307/3391382|Se describe una nueva especie de Aragoa (Scrophulariaceae) de la Cordillera Oriental de Colombia. Se comenta su relacin con otras especies del grupo "abietina," al cual se adscribe. /// A new species of the genus Aragoa (Scrophulariaceae) from the Colombian Cordillera Oriental is described, and its relationships with other species of the "abietina" group, in which it is included, are discussed.
10.2307/3393076|Oreobolopsis inversa, a new species of Cyperaceae from the Andes occurring in Ecuador and Peru, is fully described and illustrated. It differs from Oreobolopsis tepalifera Koyama & Guaglianone by its stiff erect leaves and tepals shorter than the achene. The habit of the new species is very similar to Trichophorum rigidum (Steudel) Goetghebeur, Muasya & Simpson, but there are some remarkable differences in floral morphology between the two. In addition, the combination Oreobolopsis clementis (M. E. Jones) Dhooge & Goetghebeur is made.
10.2307/3391961|Marsdenia rzedowskiana es descrita como nueva. Esta especie ha sido confundida con M. macrophylla (Humboldt & Bonpland ex Schultes) E. Fournier pero est ms relacionada con M. pringlei S. Watson. La distribucin de M. rzedowskiana est restringida al noreste de Puebla y partes adyacentes de Veracruz, hacia el sur de la distribucin conocida de M. pringlei y en altitudes superiores a las de M. macrophylla. /// Marsdenia rzedowskiana is described. This new species has been confused with M. macrophylla, but is most closely related to M. pringlei. Marsdenia rzedowskiana seems to be restricted to northeastern Puebla and adjacent Veracruz, to the south of the known distribution of M. pringlei and at higher elevations than M. macrophylla.
10.2307/3391986|Two new species of Festuca from Mexico are described and illustrated: F. roblensis, from the states of Guanajuato and Zacatecas, and F. valdesii, from the Sierra Madre Oriental in the states of Coahuila, Nuevo Len, and Tamaulipas. /// Se describen e ilustran dos especies nuevas de Festuca de Mxico: F. roblensis, de los estados de Guanajuato y Zacatecas, y F. valdesii, de la Sierra Madre Oriental en los estados de Coahuila, Nuevo Len y Tamaulipas.
10.2307/3393121|Rediscovery in the late 1990s of the mysterious Moraea ovata Thunberg, described in 1800 and first collected in 1793 in early fruit, shows that the species belongs to the related genus Ferraria. Flowers, only found in June 2001, show that it has parallel anther locules and a spindle-shaped ovary without a sterile beak, features consistent with section Ferraria of the genus. The new combination F. ovata is provided for the species, which we speculate is most closely related to F. densepunctulata, native to the west coast of Western Cape Province, South Africa. The range of F. ovata is restricted to low to middle elevations in central Namaqualand in Northern Cape Province, South Africa.
10.2307/3393040|Three Mexican endemic species of shrubby habit and apparent thelypodioid affinities (Iodanthus acuminatus, I. mexicanus, and I. petiolatus) are separated from the eastern North American herb Iodanthus pinnatifidus as the genus Chaunanthus O. E. Schulz. The new combinations Chaunanthus acuminatus and C. mexicanus are proposed. The distinguishing features and geographic distribution of the genus Chaunanthus are discussed, and a key to species and synopsis of its three included species are presented.
10.2307/3391587|Seis especies nuevas de Meliaceae son descritas: Trichilia primogenita, T. obovata, Guarea riparia, G. ecuadoriensis, Ruagea membranacea, y R. microphylla. La primer especie pertenece al noroccidente del Ecuador en el borde con Colombia y las cinco restantes a las areas limtrofes entre Ecuador, Per, y Colombia en la parte ms occidental de la Amazona. Caracteres excepcionales o la combinacin de varios caracteres, determinan que las especies descritas sean distintas de las especies conocidas. /// Six new species of Meliaceae are described: Trichilia primogenita, T. obovata, Guarea riparia, G. ecuadoriensis, Ruagea membranacea, and R. microphylla. The first species occurs in northwestern Ecuador, near the Colombian border, and the five remaining species are from extreme western Amazonia, in the border region between Ecuador, Peru, and Colombia. Exceptional characters or combinations of characters distinguish the new taxa from known species of Meliaceae.
10.2307/3393036|A study of morphological characters of Paeonia veitchii Lynch, based on over 180 specimens, reveals that the following new combination is necessary: P. anomala L. subsp. veitchii (Lynch) D. Y. Hong & K. Y. Pan, comb. et stat. nov. The name is also lectotypified. Three previously recognized varieties of P. veitchii are here reduced to synonymy for the first time: P. veitchii var. leiocarpa W. T. Wang & S. H. Wang ex K. Y. Pan, P. veitchii var. uniflora K. Y. Pan, and P. Woodwardii Stern & Cox.
20406180|Doliocarpus schultesianus Aymard from moist forests in the upper Ro Negro region (Vaups department) and D. triananus Aymard from montane forests in Antioquia department, Colombia, are described, illustrated, and compared to their closely related species. Doliocarpus schultesianus is not evidently allied to any other Doliocarpus Rolander species; this new species has inflorescences produced from short shoots (brachyblasts) and young fruit completely covered by stinging yellow trichomes. Doliocarpus triananus is most similar to D. pipolyi Aymard due its chartaceous leaves with margins dentate along the blade and its papyraceous basal bracteoles, but it differs from that species in its leaf and sepal shape, dense pubescence along the midrib and secondary nerves on the lower surface, peduncle patent-pilose, and fruit 10-12 mm in diameter, completely covered by white trichomes. An updated key to the 19 species of Doliocarpus from Colombia is provided. /// Doliocarpus schultesianus Aymard de bosques hmedos de la regin del alto ro Negro (departamento de Vaups) y D. triananus Aymard de bosques montanos del departamento de Antioquia, Colombia, son descritas, ilustradas y comparadas con sus especies afines. Doliocarpus schultesianus no se relaciona con ninguna especies de Doliocarpus Rolander en particular; esta nueva especie posee inflorescencias dispuestas en los entre nudos muy cortos (braquiblastos) y frutos jvenes completamente cubiertos por tricomas urticantes de color amarillo. Por sus hojas cartceas, mrgenes dentados a lo largo de la lmina y bractolas bsales papirceas D. triananus es similar a D. pipolyi Aymard, sin embargo difiere de esta especie en la forma de las hojas y spalos, pubescencia muy densa en el nervio central y nervios secundarios por el envs, pednculos patentes pilosos y frutos 10-12 mm en dimetro, completamente cubierto por tricomas blancos. Se presenta una clave actualizada de las 19 especies de Doliocarpus registradas de Colombia.
20406354|A study of the diversity of Dioscorea bulbifera L. (Dioscoreaceae) in China has revealed a distinctive new variety from Yunnan Province, China. Dioscorea bulbifera var. albotuberosa Y. F. Zhou, Z. L. Xu & Y. Y. Hang differs from D. bulbifera by its tubers white in transverse section, bulblets verruculose, and leaf texture membranaceous, papery, and crispy when dry.
20406347|The preparation of the taxonomic treatment of Nama L. (Hydrophyllaceae) for the Flora Mesoamericana resulted in the discovery of a new species from Guatemala. Nama segetale Ricketson is described and illustrated. /// El estudio preparatorio para llevar a cabo un tratamiento taxonmico del gnero Nama L. (Hydrophyllaceae) para la Flora Mesoamericana result en el descubrimiento de una especie nueva para la ciencia, Nama segetale Ricketson, proveniente de Guatemala, que se describe e ilustre.
3393317| Three new Argentinian species of Physaria, P. crassistigma, P. lateralis, and P. pygmaea, are described and illustrated. The new combinations P. mendocina and P. urbaniana are proposed. A key to the five South American species of Physaria is given. Brief comments are presented on the disjunction of these South American species and their relationships to their North American relatives. /// Se describen e ilustran tres especies argentinas de Physaria, P. crassistigma, P. lateralis y P. pygmaea. Se proponen dos nuevas combinaciones: P. mendocina y P. urbaniana. Se provee una clave para las cinco especies de Physaria sudamericanas. Se presentan comentarios breves acerca de la disyuncin de estas especies sudamericanas y de los parentescos con sus parientes norteamericanos. 
41811682|A new species of Nectandra Rol. ex Rottb. (Lauraceae) from Cajamarca, Peru, is described and illustrated. Nectandra ovatocaudata Rohwer appears to be related to N. amazonum Nees, but differs in its leaf shape, in having a receptacle that is densely pubescent inside, and in its habitat.
10.2307/3391555|A new species of Old World Sarcostemma, Sarcostemma mulanjense from Malawi, is described.
3393465| Three new species, Cissus nicaraguensis, C. patellicalyx, and Ampelocissus mesoamericana, are described from Nicaragua, Costa Rica, and El Salvador, respectively. Cissus nicaraguensis can be distinguished from all other Neotropical species by the combination of urceolate calyx and simple leaves. Cissus patellicalyx is recognized by its subspherical floral buds, immature fruits minutely tuberculate when dried, and the distinctly raised nerves of the abaxial leaf surface. Ampelocissus mesoamericana is characterized by lenticels, indument, and the obpyriform flower buds. /// Se describen tres nuevas especies, Cissus nicaraguensis, C. patellicalyx y Ampelocissus mesoamericana, de Nicaragua, Costa Rica y El Salvador, respectivamente. Cissus nicaraguensis puede distinguirse de todas las otras especies neotropicales por la combinacin de un cliz urceolado y las hojas simples. Cissus patellicalyx se reconoce por los botones florales subesfricos, los frutos inmaduros diminutamente tuberculados cuando secos y los nervios distintamente prominentes en el lado abaxial de las hojas. Ampelocissus mesoamericana se caracteriza por las lenticelas y el indumento, y los botones florales obpiriformes. 
23259409|Passiflora cacao Bernacci & M. M. Souza is described. The Passifloraceae has a limited known distribution area in southern Bahia, Brazil. This new species is not very abundant and occurs in a mountainous area associated with dense ombrophilous forest noteworthy for its great biodiversity, including many species of hummingbirds. Passiflora cacao is similar to P. edulis Sims, but it can easily be recognized by the cylindrical hypanthium and winged seeds. In addition, the flowers are usually smaller, with inner corona and outer corona series greater in number.
10.2307/3391806|The new combination Temnadenia odorifera (Vellozo) J. F. Morales is proposed here. Laubertia gentlei Lundell is reduced to synonymy of L. peninsularis Woodson.
3393430|Two new species of Alstroemeria (Alstroemeriaceae) from the Brazilian savannas are described: A. stenophylla M. C. Assis, which is characterized by its narrow linear-lanceolate leaves, concentrated on the distal region of the vegetative stem, and for its ruby-spotted inner tepals, close to A. gardneri Baker and A. plantaginea Martius ex Schultes & Schultes f.; and A. tombolatoana M. C. Assis, which may be recognized by its coriaceous leaves, outer tepals oblong-spatulate, without patterning, but the inner tepals spatulate and ruby-maculate, sympatric with A. gardneri. Descriptions, comments, and illustrations are presented.
10.2307/3391660|In preparing the treatment of the Verbenaceae for the Manual de la Flora de Costa Rica, Aegiphila specimens with large, cupulate, Quararibea-like fruits were found. These turned out to be a new species, here described as A. quararibeana. The new species is a canopy liana with the largest fruit of any lianescent species in the genus.
23018489|A new species, Elatostema recurviramum W. T. Wang & Y. G. Wei (Urticaceae), from Guangxi, China, is described and illustrated, and its affinities are discussed. It most closely resembles E. cyrtandrifolium (Zoll. & Moritzi) Miq., from which it differs in the recurved stems and branches, the denticulate margin of the leaf apex, the larger, ovate stipules, the presence of densely distributed cystoliths on the blade midrib, and the glabrous, lineolate achenes. The new taxon was collected from a limestone cave and is considered to be Critically Endangered (CR) according to IUCN Red List criteria.
10.2307/3391889|A new species of Asclepiadaceae-Stapelieae from central Madagascar, Ceropegia striata Meve & Masinde, is described and illustrated. The delicate, tuberous twiner is characterized by linear corolla lobes and purplish, adaxially bulging vascular bundles resulting in the conspicuous striation of the completely whitish-greenish corolla. Due to similarities in vegetative growth and corona morphology, C. striata is probably nearest to C. madagascariensis Decaisne.
40856297|Four new species of Ribes L. (Grossulariaceae) are described from Peru, three from the AmotapeHuancabamba Zone and one from the eastern slopes of the Andes in central Peru. Ribes chachapoyense Weigend & Breitkopf, R. tumerec Weigend & Breitkopf, and R. huancabambense Weigend & Breitkopf from the Amotape-Huancabamba Zone represent close allies of Ecuadorian species and underscore both the floristic connections of this region to Ecuador and its high levels of floristic distinctness and endemism. With these three new species, the species total for the Peruvian part of the Amotape-Huancabamba Zone now reaches 10, nearly half the species present in Peru. Ribes frankei Weigend & Breitkopf is possibly the most aberrant species of Ribesit is a small, cushion-forming dwarf-shrub to 30 cm tall, with erect inflorescences that are virtually immersed in the leafy cushions. It is the smallest species of Ribes known so far and has been collected on vertical rock faces in the high Andes of Pasco in central Peru. The species total for Peruvian Ribes now reaches 23, which is nearly twice the number of species known for any other individual South American country, indicating that Peru, and especially the AmotapeHuancabamba Zone, represents the center of diversity of the genus in South America. Three of the newly described species are already at the brink of extinction due to habitat destruction (overgrazing, burning, mining, forest clearing: R. tumerec, R. frankei, R. huancabambense) and have to be considered as Critically Endangered. The fourth species, R. chachapoyense, has a slightly wider range and can be considered as only Endangered according to IUCN Red List criteria.
10.2307/3393205|Maytenus masindei Gereau (Celastraceae) and Vepris hiernii Gereau (Rutaceae) are published as avowed substitutes (replacement names) for Maytenus conferta Masinde ex N. Robson and Cranzia angolensis Hiern.
10.2307/3393189|Paederia taolagnarensis Razafimandimbison & C. M. Taylor is described from Petriky, Taolagnaro, Madagascar. This new species is distinguished from other Paederia species of Madagascar by its cymose-paniculate inflorescences that are rather congested, showing "double" scorpioid cyme structure, and its thickened peduncles and pedicels. It grows on stabilized dunes in the Petriky region, Taolagnaro. A description and dichotomous key are provided. /// Paederia taolagnarensis Razafimandimbison & C. M. Taylor a t dcrite de la rgion de Petriky, Taolagnaro, Madagascar. Cette nouvelle espce est distingue des autres Paederia de Madagascar par ses inflorescences en panicule de cyme, qui sont plutt arrondies et parfois ramifies dichotomiquement, et ont des pdoncules et pdicelles paisses. Elle pousse sur les dunes dans la rgion de Petriky, Taolagnaro. Sa description et une cl dichotomique ont t inclues.
3393417| A new species of Siparuna (Siparunaceae), S. ficoides, is described, illustrated, and placed in a phylogenetic context based on morphological and DNA sequence data. The species, which is a monoecious subcanopy tree, is known from three collections made near Manaus, Brazil (two from the same tree), and one in the state of Bolvar, Venezuela. /// Se describe y se ilustra una nueva especie de Siparuna (Siparunaceae), S. ficoides, adems se la ubica en un contexto filogentico basado en datos morfolgicos y en sequencias de DNA. Esta nueva especie es un rbol monoico de subdosel, de la cual se han registrado tres colecciones cerca de Manaos, Brasil (dos del mismo rbol) y una coleccin en el Estado de Bolvar, Venezuela. 
10.2307/3391692|Three names in Urtica described by A. Steudel are lectotypified: U. pseudodioica, U. mollis, and U. bracteata.
3393482| Se describe e ilustra Eysenhardtia officinalis (Leguminosae, Papilionoideae), una especie nueva de Mxico. Eysenhardtia officinalis guarda similitud con E. polystachya (Ortega) Sargent y E. texana Scheele, pero difiere en el nmero y morfologa de los fololos, inflorescencias ms largas, la morfologa de la flor y del fruto, as como una distribucin altitudinal menor. Se incluye un cuadro comparativo para distinguir las especies cercanas a este nuevo taxn. /// Eysenhardtia officinalis (Leguminosae, Papilionoideae), a new species from Mexico, is described and illustrated. This species appears similar to E. polystachya (Ortega) Sargent and E. texana Scheele, but differs in the number and morphology of the leaflets, the longer inflorescences, the flower and fruit morphology, and in altitudinal distribution. A table for comparing related taxa is also provided. 
23018464|The new species Bonamia jiviorum J. R. Grande (Convolvuloideae, Cresseae) is described and illustrated from northwestern Amazonas in Venezuela. This new taxon is morphologically similar to B. apurensis D. F. Austin. It is characterized by its relatively small, ovate-orbicular leaves that are densely rough-tomentulose over both surfaces and have a truncate to subcordate base and rounded to obtuse, mucronulate or minutely retuse apex; relatively lax, aphyllous infructescences with relatively short peduncles and relatively short, adpressed bracts; orbicular sepals; glabrous fruits crowned by copper-colored setose hairs; and densely pustulate, irregularly striate, conspicuously winged seeds. Bonamia jiviorum is known only from the vicinity of Puerto Ayacucho, over low-altitude granitic boulders known locally as lajas. Se describe e ilustra Bonamia jiviorum J. R. Grande (Convolvuloideae, Cresseae) del noroccidente del estado Amazonas de Venezuela. Esta nueva especie es morfolgicamente afn a B. apurensis D. F. Austin y se caracteriza por presentar lminas foliares relativamente pequeas, ovadoorbiculares, truncadas hasta subcordadas en la base, redondeadas hasta obtusas, mucronuladas  retusas en el pice, con pubescencia densa, spero-tomentulosa, por ambas caras; inflorescencias filas, relativamente laxas, con pednculos relativamente cortos y brcteas adpresas relativamente cortas; spalos orbiculares; frutos coronados por un mechn de pelos setosos cobrizos, del resto glabros; y semillas con superficie densamente pustulada e irregularmente estriada, con alas sobre las aristas laterales alcanzando los 0.2 mm de largo. Bonamia jiviorum slo se conoce de los alrededores de la ciudad de Puerto Ayacucho, donde se encuentra creciendo sobre afloramientos granticos de baja altitud conocidos localmente como lajas.
20406244|Musa itinerans Cheesman (Musaceae) is dispersed across continental Southeast Asia from Northeast India to Vietnam and the adjacent islands, with only two previously described varieties. Its intraspecific taxa have not been comprehensively investigated. In this study, M. itinerans is morphologically circumscribed based on field studies in southern China. Four varieties are described as new: M. itinerans var. chinensis Hkkinen, M. itinerans var. guangdongensis Hkkinen, M. itinerans var. lechangensis Hkkinen, and M. itinerans var. xishuangbannaensis Hkkinen. We propose a new rank for M. itinerans subsp. annamica R. V. Valmayor, L. D. Danh & Hkkinen as M. itinerans var. annamica (R. V. Valmayor, L. D. Danh & Hkkinen) Hkkinen. A table for the distinguishing characteristics is provided for these varieties and for M. itinerans var. itinerans Cheesman. All of these studies are based on morphological characteristics observed in the field in China during 2005 and 2006, in various herbaria, and in the literature on Musaceae.
3393332|Pennellia brachycarpa (Brassicaceae), a new species from the province of Jujuy in northern Argentina, is described and illustrated. The new species is distinguished from other members of the genus by having corymbose rather than lax racemes and forked and Y-shaped instead of dendritic trichomes.
10.2307/3391424|Recent exploration in the Marojejy Natural Reserve has resulted in the discovery of a new species, Ardisia (subg. Akosmos) marojejyensis. The species is described and illustrated, and its phylogenetic relationships are discussed. A key to distinguish the three known Madagascan species of Ardisia is provided, and subgenus Madardisia is relegated to synonymy under subgenus Akosmos.
10.2307/3393253|Investigacin morfolgica y ecolgica reciente, tanto en la costa norte de Jalisco como en la Zona Centro del mismo Estado, apoyan el reconocimiento de Magnolia pugana (H. H. Iltis & A. Vzquez) A. Vzquez & Carvajal a nivel de especie. /// Recent morphological and ecological investigation in both the northern Jaliscan coast and central Jalisco support the recognition of Magnolia pugana (H. H. Iltis & A. Vzquez) A. Vzquez & Carvajal at the species level.
10.2307/3391845|A new species of Justicia with heteromorphic bracts, J. nevlingii, is described from southern Mexico. The species is compared to two other heteromorphically bracted species from Mexico and Central America, J. chol and J. costaricana. It differs from these in several features, including its 4-aperturate pollen.
10.2307/3391836|The new subspecies Mitrasacme erophila subsp. grandiflora (Loganiaceae) and Pedicularis thailandica subsp. parvula (Scrophularia ceae) are described.
3393421| Euphorbia derickii, a new species in Euphorbia subg. Chamaesyce (Euphorbiaceae), is described and illustrated. It is endemic to central Mexico and presently known from 11 widely separated collections in the states of Guanajuato, Guerrero, Michoacn, and Morelos. Although similar to Euphorbia hirta and E. lineata in most features, it can be distinguished from these and all other Mexican species of Euphorbia subg. Chamaesyce by its seeds, which possess sharp, well-defined, uninterrupted, transverse ribs. /// Se describe e ilustra Euphorbia derickii, una especie nueva de Euphorbia subg. Chamaesyce (Euphorbiaceae). La especie nueva es endmica del centro de Mxico y conocida de once colectas de los estados de Guanajuato, Guerrero, Michoacn y Morelos. Es semejante a Euphorbia hirta y E. lineata pero difiere de ellas y las otras especies mexicanas de Euphorbia subg. Chamaesyce por tener semillas con costillas transversales notarias, contnuas y con el borde agudo. 
10.2307/3391380|Five species of Mabea new to science are proposed and distinguished from their relatives, based to a large extent on characters of pistillate flowers and leaves. All have a limited distribution. Another species is reduced to a subspecies of M. fistulifera.
10.2307/3391677|A new species of Olacaceae from Amazonian Peru is described as Aptandra caudata.
10.2307/3391898|Two new species of Larnax (Solanaceae) are described and illustrated. Larnax andersonii is a small shrub with unequal, geminate leaves and long, bifurcate hairs. It occurs along the eastern slopes of the Ecuadorian Andes. The flower structure of L. andersonii is similar to another Ecuadorian species, L. suffruticosa. Larnax psilophyta, a high-elevation species endemic to southern Ecuador, is a small-flowered, glabrous shrub with indurate, fleshy leaves that is often confused with Deprea glabra.
20406292|Hedyotis cheniana R. J. Wang and H. wuzhishanensis R. J. Wang, from Hainan Province, China, are described as new. Hedyotis cheniana is similar to H. terminaliflora Merrill & Chun in having a terminal condensed inflorescence, but differs in having elliptic to ovate, or sometimes circular leaves with rounded or truncated leaf bases and distinct petioles, narrowly triangular stipules with a lacerate margin, heterostylous flowers, and short calyx tubes. Hedyotis wuzhishanensis is similar to H. paridifolia Dunn in having two pairs of leaves that are closely adjacent to the terminal inflorescence, but it can be distinguished by its covering of sparse to dense hairs on all vegetative organs, four to five pairs of secondary veins, and distinct petioles. These two new species belong to Hedyotis sect. Diplophragma Wight & Arnott based on the dehiscent pattern of their mature capsules.
10.2307/3393224|A rare new species of the Pacific genus Cyrtandra, C. paliku, is described from the Hawaiian Islands. It is unique in its combination of thick stems with shaggy, reddish brown villous pubescence, leaves strongly inequilateral, petioles shaggy villous, and calyx weakly zygomorphic and persistent. Known from northeastern Kaua'i, Cyrtandra paliku occurs only on Mount Namahana and is restricted to north-facing rock faces. A single population of about 70 plants occurs on vertical saturated walls.
10.2307/3391739|Se describen y se ilustran seis nuevas especies de Vriesea sect. Xiphion para Costa Rica: V. barii, V. haberii, V. osaensis, V. simulans, V. tiquirensis y V. vulcanicola. Se discuten sus relaciones dentro del gnero. Todas son endmicas por el momento. /// Six new species of Vriesea from Costa Rica, V. barii, V. haberii, V. osaensis, V. simulans, V. tiquirensis, and V. vulcanicola, are described and illustrated. In addition, their relationships are discussed. All are endemic as far as is known.
23018485|Quercus delgadoana S. Valencia, Nixon & L. M. Kelly (Fagaceae), a new species from the states of Hidalgo, Puebla, and Veracruz in the Sierra Madre Oriental, Mexico, is described and illustrated. We discuss its morphological similarity to Q. eugeniifolia Liebm., Q. sapotifolia Liebm., Q. salicifolia Ne, Q. laurina Bonpl., and Q. affinis Scheidw., with which it shares narrowly lanceolate leaves and fasciculate stipitate trichomes in the axils of the secondary veins on the underside of the lamina. A dichotomous key is provided to distinguish these species. Se describe e ilustra Quercus delgadoana S. Valencia, Nixon & L. M. Kelly (Fagaceae), una especie nueva de los estados de Hidalgo, Puebla y Veracruz en la Sierra Madre Oriental, Mxico. Se discute su similitud morfolgica con Q. eugeniifolia Liebm., Q. sapotifolia Liebm., Q. salicifolia Ne, Q. laurina Bonpl. y Q. affinis Scheidw., con las que comparte la forma lanceolada de las hojas y la presencia de tricomas fasciculados estipitados en las axilas de las venas secundarias en el envs. Se presenta una clave dicotmica para su identificacin.
10.2307/3393202|A new species of Tradescantia (sect. Cymbispatha), T. grantii Faden, is described from Costa Rica. Based on its morphology and karyotype the new species is most closely related to T. plusiantha from Mexico and probably T. deficiens from Mexico and Guatemala.
20406328|Habenaria pseudoglaucophylla J. A. N. Batista, R. C. Mota & N. Abreu (Orchidaceae, Orchideae, Habenariinae), a new species from the state of Minas Gerais, Brazil, is described and illustrated. The species was first collected in 1970, but previously misidentified as H. glaucophylla Barbosa Rodrigues and H. umbraticola Barbosa Rodrigues. Distinctive features of the new species are the rosulate leaves, the deeply tripartite lip, the oblong posterior petal lobe with a truncate apex, and the short, tooth-like anterior petal lobe. The new species occurs in campo rupestre vegetation, usually associated with quartzite outcrops. /// Habenaria pseudoglaucophylla J. A. N. Batista, R. C. Mota & N. Abreu (Orchidaceae, Orchideae, Habenariinae), urna nova espcie para o estado de Minas Gerais,  descrita e ilustrada. A espcie foi coletada pela primeira vez em 1970, mas identificada erroneamente como H. glaucophylla Barbosa Rodrigues e H. umbraticola Barbosa Rodrigues. Caracteres distintivos para a nova espcie so as folhas rosuladas, o labelo profundamente tripartido, o segmento posterior das ptalas oblongo, com pice truncado e o segmento anterior das ptalas curto, dentiforme. A nova espcie ocorre em campo rupestre, geralmente associada a afloramentos de quartzito.
3393334|The new species Hypericum qinlingense (Clusiaceae) is described and illustrated from the southern slope of Mount Qinling in Shaanxi Province, China. The new species belongs to Hypericum sect. Adenosepalum by its glabrous, perennial, herbaceous habit, persistent perianth and androecium, sepals with large stalked black glands, three bundles of stamens, and three free styles, as well as by the alveolate seeds. The new species is similar to Hypericum elodeoides Choisy in its scorpioidal dichasium, but differs in its bracts and flowers. A key to the Chinese species of Hypericum sect. Adenosepalum is included.
10.2307/3391574|Desmodium adscendens (Swartz) DC. var. orinocense DC. se ha elevado a nivel de especie como D. orinocense (DC.) Cuello, y se le ha designado un lecttipo. /// Desmodium adscendens (Swartz) DC. var. orinocense DC. is elevated to species level as Desmodium orinocense (DC.) Cuello, and a lectotype is designated.
23259424|Staelia catolensis R. M. Salas & E. L. Cabral, una nueva especie (Rubiaceae, Spermacoceae) de Bahia, Brasil, es descrita e ilustrada. El nuevo taxn es aparentemente endmico de Serra de Catols en reas de campos rupestres. Staelia catolensis es similar a S. thymoides Cham. & Schltdl. en el hbito pequeo e inflorescencias con crecimiento determinado y puede distinguirse de esta ltima por las hojas aciculares con pice punzante, corola externamente papilosa y granos de polen microreticulados. Staelia catolensis R. M. Salas & E. L. Cabral, a new species (Rubiaceae, Spermacoceae) from Bahia, Brazil, is described and illustrated. The new taxon is apparently endemic from the Serra de Catols in areas of campos rupestres. The new species resembles S. thymoides Cham. & Schltdl., with which it shares a small stature and determinate inflorescence. Staelia catolensis differs by its acicular leaves with a pungent tip, the external indumentum of the corolla, and the pollen grains with microreticulate exine.
10.2307/3391742|The 10 South African species currently assigned to Laurentia (an otherwise Mediterranean genus) are segregated here as the genus Wimmerella on the basis of their basal (vs. medial) bracteoles; larger flowers and fruits; and subglobose (vs. ellipsoid) seeds lacking a strophiole, which are sulcate with flattened (vs. keeled) walls.
10.2307/3391438|Maesa striatocarpa, M. densistriata, and M. longilanceolata are described as new. All three are endemic to Yunnan, China.
10.2307/3393520|Cymbidium chawalongense C. L. Long, H. Li & Z. L. Dao (Orchidaceae), collected from southeast Xizang (Tibet), China, is described as new. The new species is similar to C. floribundum Lindley in morphology and habitat, but differs in having an erect scape, very widely spread flowers, pale green sepals and petals, and a white, nonmottled lip.
10.2307/3391507|Because of extensive morphological intermediacy, plants formerly distinguished at the species level as Gnaphalium beneolens, G. microcephalum, G. thermale, and G. wrightii are treated as intergrading races of the widespread G. canescens. The new combinations, G. canescens subsp. beneolens, G. canescens subsp. microcephalum, and G. canescens subsp. thermale are made.
3393505|The new name Carex capilliculmis S. R. Zhang is proposed to replace the later homonym Carex filamentosa K. T. Fu. Carex capilliculmis belongs to section Digitatae and is found in western China.
3393460| A new species in Astragalus, endemic for Peru, is described for Leguminosae, Galegeae. Astragalus sagasteguii may be compared with the related A. dillinghami Macbride in Peru and A. diminutivus (Philippi) Gmez-Sosa in Bolivia and Argentina. The new combination Astragalus diminutivus is made, transferring the species from the genus Phaca. In addition, Astragalus deminutivus I. M. Johnston newly synonymizes to A. diminutivus. Further, Astragalus dielsii Macbride is recognized as a variety to A. diminutivus. The geographical distribution of Astragalus diminutivus var. dielsii extends from Peru into Bolivia and Argentina. Morphological description and comparison, illustration, as well as habitat and geographical distribution are provided. /// Una nueva especie de Astragalus, endmica del Per, es descripta para Leguminosae, Galegeae. Astragalus sagasteguii, puede ser comparada con A. dillinghami Macbride, en Per, y A. diminutivus (Philippi) Gmez-Sosa en Bolivia y Argentina. Adems A. dielsii Macbride es transferida como una variedad de A. diminutivus. La distribucin geogrfica de Astragalus diminutivus var. dielsii se extiende desde Per a Bolivia y Argentina. Se incluyen descripciones, tabla de relaciones, ilustraciones, datos sobre hbitat y distribucin geogrfica. 
10.2307/3391864|The second continental species of Antidaphne north of Colombia, A. hondurense Kuijt (Eremolepidaceae), is described and illustrated. The species is monoecious and related to A. andina Kuijt and A. wrightii (Grisebach) Kuijt.
10.2307/3391779|A new combination in the Lowiaceae, Orchidantha chinensis T. L. Wu var. longisepala (D. Fang) T. L. Wu, as well as a new species, Alpinia jianganfeng T. L. Wu, and two new combinations, Amomum petaloideum (S. J. Tong) T. L. Wu and Roscoea cautleoides Gagnepain var. pubescens (Z. Y. Zhu) T. L. Wu, in the Zingiberaceae are proposed. Eight species names in the Lowiaceae, Musaceae, and Zingiberaceae are reduced to synonymy.
43289120|Petrocosmea melanophthalma Huan C. Wang, Z. R. He & Li Bing Zhang, an attractive new species (Gesneriaceae, Petrocosmea sect. Deianthera W. T. Wang) from Yunnan, China, is described and illustrated. It is similar to P. kerrii Craib in the zygomorphic calyx and brevirostrate anther. The new species differs from the latter by its peltate leaves and the blue corolla with two striking black spots on the tube, as well as the geniculate filaments of the stamens that thicken above the middle. Petrocosmea melanopthalma was found on basalt cliffs in evergreen broad-leaved forest on Mopan Shan.
3393278|The new Tibetan Draba mieheorum and Peruvian D. sagasteguii (Brassicaceae) are described and illustrated. The distinguishing characters separating each species from its nearest relatives are discussed.
10.2307/3392988|A new species of Dalechampia L. (Euphorbiaceae) with 5-foliolate leaves is described from southern Costa Rica, compared with its closest relative, and illustrated. /// Una nueva especie de Dalechampia L. (Euphorbiaceae) con hojas 5-folioladas, se describe de la regin sur de Costa Rica, se compara con otra especie cercana y se ilustra en este artculo.
40300934|The new combination Toxicoscordion venenosum (S. Watson) Rydberg var. gramineum (Rydberg) Brasher (Melanthiaceae) is made to accommodate this taxon in this genus at the rank of variety for the Southern Rocky Mountain Interactive Flora (SRMIF) project. Recent chromosome and DNA sequence data support segregation of Toxicoscordion Rydberg from Zigadenus Michaux s.l.
41811679|Lozania nunkui D. A. Neill & Asanza (Lacistemataceae), a new species from the Cordillera del Cndor region of southeastern Ecuador and adjacent northern Peru, is described and illustrated. It is distinguished from other species in the genus by the glabrous, entire, relatively thick and coriaceous, sclerophyllous leaves, and uniquely, by the five or occasionally six sepals, rather than four sepals as in all other known species. The new species is restricted to nutrient-poor, highly acidic sandstone plateaus within its range, and the thick sclerophyllous leaves appear to be an ecological adaptation to that edaphic condition. Se describe y se ilustra Lozania nunkui D. A. Neill & Asanza (Lacistemataceae), una nueva especie de la regin de la Cordillera del Cndor en el sureste del Ecuador y la zona colindante del norte de Per. Se distingue de las dems especies del gnero por las hojas glabras, enteras, relativamente gruesas, coriceas y esclerfilas, y por los cinco u ocasionalmente seis spalos, en vez de los cuatro spalos que presentan todas las dems especies. Dentro de su rango geogrfico, la especie nueva est restringida a las mesetas de areniscas, con suelos pobres en nutrientes y muy cidos, y las hojas gruesas y esclerfilas parecen ser una adaptacin ecolgica a esa condicin edfica.
20406030|The new genus Guianodendron Schtz Rodrigues & A. M. G. Azevedo (Leguminosae, Papilionoideae, Sophoreae) from Guyana and the Brazilian state of Amazonas is described and illustrated, and a new combination, Guianodendron praeclarum (Sandwith) Schtz Rodrigues & A. M. G. Azevedo, is made. The genus is characterized by a radial corolla with auriculate petals; five stamens; reduced ovule number; a straight hypanthium; indehiscent, flattened, and sutural-winged fruits; persistent bracts and bracteoles; leaflets with a papillate abaxial epidermis; and ovate to ovate-elliptic markedly striate stipules. /// O gnero novo Guianodendron Schtz Rodrigues & A. M. G. Azevedo (Leguminosae, Papilionoideae, Sophoreae), ocorrente na Guiana e no estado brasileiro do Amazonas,  descrito e ilustrado e uma nova combino  feita, Guianodendron praeclarum (Sandwith) Schtz Rodrigues & A. M. G. Azevedo. O gnero  caracterizado por apresentar corola radial com ptalas auriculadas, cinco estames, nmero reduzido de vulos, hipanto reto, frutos indeiscentes, achatados, com suturas aladas, brcteas e bractolas persistentes, fololos com epiderme abaxial papilosa e estpulas oval ou oval-eliptcas, marcadamente estriadas.
10.2307/3393376|We discuss the historical usage of the genus Chamaecrista (Fabaceae, Caesalpinioideae) in Africa, describe and illustrate the new species C. mwangokae from southern Tanzania, reduce C. hildebrandtii to taxonomic synonymy under C. zambesica, and provide a key to the East African species of Chamaecrista with stipitate petiolar glands.
20406250|Three creeping Ecuadorian species of Peperomia Ruiz & Pavn are presented as new to science. Both P. parcipeltata G. Mathieu and P. sagittata G. Mathieu occur in northern Ecuador, while P. gracilispica G. Mathieu occurs in central Ecuador. The three species are considered as belonging to section Leptorhynchum Dahlstedt.
10.2307/3391979|Descriptions are given of two new taxa, Quararibea yunckeri subsp. sessiliflora, and Q. yunckeri subsp. veracruzana, with summaries of their distributions.
10.2307/3393370|Felicia fischeri from Tanzania has been treated as a probable synonym of F. welwitschii for the last 50 years; the syntypes had been lost. Recent collections from northern Tanzania show that it is a species in its own right.
20406191|A new Hawaiian species of the Pacific genus Cyrtandra J. R. Forster & G. Forster, C. wagneri Lorence & Perlman, is described from the island of Hawai'i. It is unique in its combination of opposite leaves, cauligerous 12- to 25-flowered cymose inflorescences, deeply divided calyx that is actinomorphic, symmetrical in bud, and persistent in fruit, and calyx lobes that are lanceolate to linear-oblong, green, and internally puberulent distally. Due to its restricted distribution, small population size, and vulnerability to threats from feral animals, weeds, and stochastic events, it is considered to be critically endangered (CR) based on IUCN Red List criteria.
10.2307/3393272| Originally described by Fe in 1857, the villose cliff brake was not validly published for another 136 years. In 1993, this member of the Pteridaceae (sensu Tryon & Tryon) was named Pellaea ternifolia subsp. villosa Windham, acknowledging its overall similarity to the ternate cliff brake. Although formally including it within P. ternifolia (Cavanilles) Link, Windham suggested that the villose cliff brake was a probable allotetraploid produced by hybridization between typical P. ternifolia and some other (then unidentified) taxon. Recent work by Mendoza et al. has identified a new species, P. ribae Mendoza & Windham, that appears to be the "missing parent." Considering the evidence that the villose cliff brake is a reproductively competent taxon that originated as a hybrid between P. ternifolia subsp. ternifolia and P. ribae, we now feel that it should be recognized as a distinct species. Herein, we propose a new combination, Pellaea villosa (Windham) Windham & Yatskievych, for the villose cliff brake. We also report a northern range extension to Arizona, the second record for the area covered by the Flora of North America. 
10.2307/3392068|A new species of Mentzelia sect. Bartonia (Loasaceae), M. collomiae, is described from central Coconino County, Arizona, U.S.A. It is an edaphic endemic species restricted to cinder areas of the San Francisco Volcanic Field and is distinguished from other species in the section by seed surface features and by a combination of gross morphology, chromosome number, and habitat.
10.2307/3393214|Anthurium faustomirandae sp. nov. is described and illustrated from Chiapas, Mexico. It is similar to A. titanium Standley & Steyermark but differs from that species in having persistent intact cataphylls, thicker pruinose leaf blades with an acute rather than acuminate apex, and a shorter, stouter inflorescence with a much broader spathe and more stipitate spadix. /// Anthurium faustomirandae sp. nov. de Chiapas es descrita e ilustrada. Presenta afinidad con A. titanium Standley & Steyermark de Chiapas, pero difiere de esta especie en la catafila intacta persistente, lamina pruinosa con apice acuminado, inflorescencia con una espata mucha mas ancha y espadice ms estipitado.
23018448|From eastern North America, the glandular pubescent variety of Osmunda cinnamomea L. var. glandulosa Waters (Osmundaceae) is transferred as Osmundastrum cinnamomeum (L.) C. Presl var. glandulosum (Waters) McAvoy.
20406066|Astragalus asotinensis Bjrk & Fishbein (Fabaceae) is newly described from a single population on limestone of the Limekiln Formation at the mouth of Hells Canyon in Washington and Idaho in the United States. This population of several thousand plants has yet to be found on any of the non-calcareous substrates in the vicinity. Its affinities appear closest to Astragalus sect. Podosclerocarpi A. Gray, which hitherto encompassed three species of the Columbia Basin of British Columbia, Oregon, and Washington, in northwestern North America. Astragalus asotinensis represents a disjunct element of section Podosclerocarpi, the nearest population of which, in the form of A. sclerocarpus A. Gray, occurs 150 km northwest. With species of section Podosclerocarpi, A. asotinensis shares a strongly cauline habit, creamy white petals, non-gibbous calyx base, and stipitate, curved fruits. It is unique within section Podosclerocarpi in having sparse pubescence, a much longer ratio of peduncle-to-raceme length (4:1), and an intermediate leaflet length-width ratio (5:1).
27765233|A lectotype is designated for Actinidia latifolia (Gardner & Champ.) Merr. var. deliciosa A. Chev. (Actinidiaceae), selecting the second plate from the Chevalier protologue. Actinidia latifolia var. deliciosa is the basionym for the well-known kiwifruit A. deliciosa (A. Chev.) C. F. Liang & A. R. Ferguson.
20406309|Plagiothecium shevockii S. He (Plagiotheciaceae) is described and illustrated as a new moss species from Taiwan. It resembles P. paleaceum (Mitten) A. Jaeger in having similar orbicular leaves, but differs by its much stronger double costae, and its slenderly acute and denticulate leaf apices that have a group of differentiated, hyaline, thin-walled cells often bearing rhizoids.
20406026|Conyza sumatrensis is recognized as distinct from C. bonariensis and C. canadensis. Conyza albida and C. floribunda are treated as synonyms of C. sumatrensis. Conyza sumatrensis includes two varieties, and the new combination C. sumatrensis var. leiotheca is made for the nontypical variety, which is restricted to the Americas. Conyza sumatrensis var. sumatrensis is newly reported and documented in the United States; it also is found widely elsewhere in the Americas and is the sole variety occurring in the Old World.
10.2307/3393019|Campylandra Baker was published in 1875. Subsequently, various authors have either united it with Tupistra Ker Gawler (sometimes recognizing it as a subgenus or section of Tupistra) or maintained it as a separate genus. The present authors regard Campylandra as a separate genus on account of its having filaments only proximally (vs. almost wholly in Tupistra) adnate to the perianth tube, anthers as high as or higher (vs. lower) than the stigma, a shorter style, and a 3-lobed (vs. peltate to mushroom-shaped) stigma; this separation is confirmed by molecular phylogenies. In preparation for the accounts of genera in the Convallariaceae for Flora of China, Volume 24, it is therefore necessary to transfer into Campylandra 12 species hitherto treated under Tupistra, namely: T. annulata H. Li & J. L. Huang, T. chinensis Baker, T. delavayi Franchet, T. emeiensis Z. Y. Zhu, T. ensifolia F. T. Wang & Tang, T. fimbriata Handel-Mazzetti, T. jinshanensis Z. L. Yang & X. G. Luo, T. liangshanensis Z. Y. Zhu, T. lichuanensis Y. K. Yang, J. K. Wu & D. T. Peng, T. longipedunculata F. T. Wang & S. Yun Liang, T. verruculosa Q. H. Chen, and T. yunnanensis F. T. Wang & S. Yun Liang. It is also necessary to transfer two species originally described under a related genus, Rohdea Roth, but later transferred to Tupistra: T. tui (F. T. Wang & Tang) F. T. Wang & S. Yun Liang (R. tui F. T. Wang & Tang) and T. urotepala (Handel-Mazzetti) F. T. Wang & Tang (R. urotepala Handel-Mazzetti). In addition to these transfers, Campylandra ensifolia is lectotypified.
40300876|Two new species of Pentagonia Bentham (Rubiaceae, Hippotideae) are described and illustrated. Pentagonia tapacula Comejo is from the pluvial forests of Bajo Calima, Valle del Cauca Department, southwestern Colombia. This new species belongs to a species group of plants with entire leaves that have a tapering, subsessile base, and with a 5-lobed calyx, but differs mainly by its thicker coriaceous leaf blades, obovate stipules, and inflorescences with remarkably elongated and thick peduncles. The second new species is P. clementinensis Cornejo from the wet forests of western Ecuador. This is segregated from P. involucrata C. M. Taylor, which differs sharply by its leaf blades, floral bracts, fruits, and calyces /// Se describen e ilustran dos nuevas especies de Pentagonia Bentham (Rubiaceae, Hippotideae). Pentagonia tapacula Cornejo es de los bosques pluviales del Bajo Calima, Departamento del Valle de Cauca, en el suroccidente Colombiano. Esta nueva especie pertenece al grupo de las Pentagonia de hojas enteras, de base gradualmente angosta, subssil, con cliz 5-lobado, de las que principalmente se diferencia por presentar hojas con gruesas lminas coriceas, estpulas obovadas, e inflorescencias con pednculos distintivamente ms gruesos y largos. La segunda nueva especie es P. clementinensis Cornejo de los bosques muy hmedos de la regin occidental de Ecuador. Esta es segregada de P. involucrata C. M. Taylor, de la que difiere notoriamente en cuanto a sus hojas, brcteas florales, calices y frutos.
10.2307/3393035|Opuntia pachyrrhiza, a new species of Cactaceae from the southeastern portion of the Chihuahuan Desert, Mexico, is described, illustrated, and mapped. The species is easily distinguished from other Mexican Opuntia by its relatively short stature, its long, massive rhizome, and by the large, usually poorly branched cladodes. It appears to be restricted to the summits of La Trinidad and El Azul mountain ranges, in northern San Luis Potos, Mexico. /// Se describe, ilustra y mapea a Opuntia pachyrrhiza, una nueva especie de Cactaceae del sureste de la regin del Desierto Chihuahuense, Mxico. La especie se distingue fcilmente de otros miembros mexicanos del gnero por su baja estatura, por su rizoma largo y masivo, y por sus cladodios grandes y pobremente ramificados. Su distribucin se restringe aparentemente a las cimas de las Sierras de La Trinidad y El Azul, al norte de San Luis Potos, Mxico.
10.2307/3391646|Four new species and one new subspecies of Commelina are described from the flora of Tropical East Africa (Kenya, Uganda, and Tanzania). Commelina melanorrhiza Faden, C. nairobiensis Faden, and C. albiflora Faden are endemic to Kenya. Commelina aurantiiflora Faden & Raynsford occurs in Tanzania and Zambia. Commelina foliacea Chiovenda subsp. amplexicaulis Faden ranges from Uganda and Kenya to Malawi and Zambia. Chromosome numbers are provided for all of these taxa, three for the first time.
20406029|Eight new species of Mandevilla Lindley are described and illustrated. The new species, six of them rare and endemic, occur in eastern Brazil. Three of the new species (M. fistulosa, M. grazielae, and M. harleyi) are shrubs growing on the upper slopes of granitic inselbergs in Minas Gerais and Esprito Santo in southeastern Brazil. Two species, M. semirii and M. rubra, are woody lianas growing on rock outcrops of quartzite in campo rupestre vegetation of Minas Gerais. Mandevilla hatschbachii, a distinctive shrub known only from three collections, occurs in the campo rupestre formations in eastern Brazil in Bahia. Mandevilla guanabarica, a suffrutescent liana generally misidentified as M. funiformis (Vellozo) K. Schumman, is found at the borders of the Atlantic rainforest in Esprito Santo and Rio de Janeiro. Mandevilla dardanoi is a small shrub endemic to Macio da Borborema, in northeastern Brazil. /// Oito novas espcies de Mandevilla so aqui descritas e ilustradas. Estas espcies, seis das quais raras e endmicas, ocorrem no leste do Brasil. Trs espcies (M. fistulosa, M. grazielae e M. harleyi) so arbustos que ocorrem em inselbergs granticos em Minas Gerais e Esprito Santo, no sudeste brasileiro. Mandevilla semirii e M. rubra so lianas lenhosas que ocorrem em afloramentos quartzticos nos campos rupestres de Minas Gerais. Mandevilla hatschbachii, uma espcie arbustiva bastante peculiar e conhecida por apenas trs colees, ocorre nas formaes decampo rupestre da Bahia. Mandevilla guanabarica, uma espcie de liana muitas vezes identificada erroneamente como M. funiformis (Vellozo) K. Schumman, ocorre nas bordas da Mata Atlntica do Esprito Santo e Rio de Janeiro. Mandevilla dardanoi  uma espcie arbustiva endmica do Macio da Borborema, no nordeste do Brasil.
3393354| Lupinus reitzii, a new species from southern Brazil, is described and illustrated. The new species belongs to the Lupinus lanatus complex and is closely related to L. lanatus and L. magnistipulatus, from which it is set apart principally by the size and shape of the stipules and by the shape and pubescence of the leaflets. ///  descrita e ilustrada Lupinus reitzii, uma nova espcie do Sul do Brasil. Lupinus reitzii  relacionada com os txons do complexo Lupinus lanatus, especialmente L. lanatus e L. magnistipulatus, diferenciando-se destas principalmente pelo tamanho e forma das estpulas, forma e pilosidade dos fololos. 
20406168|Forty-four new species of Astragalus L. (Leguminosae) are described here. They belong to the following sections: section Brachycarpus Borissova: A. athranthus Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. brachysemia Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. despectus Podlech & L. R. Xu; section Caprini DC.: A. fukangensis Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. luculentus Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. psilosepalus Podlech & L. R. Xu; section Chlorostachys Bunge: A. brachytrichus Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. chengkangensis Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. zadaensis Podlech & L. R. Xu; section Cysticalyx Bunge: A. gongliuensis Podlech & L. R. Xu; section Dissitiflori DC.: A. laetabilis Podlech & L. R. Xu; section Erioceras Bunge: A. yangchangii Podlech & L. R. Xu; section Helmia Bunge: A. hoshanbaoensis Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. persimilis Podlech & L. R. Xu; section Hypsophilus Bunge: A. yechengensis Podlech & L. R. Xu; section Komaroviella Gontscharow: A. leptocladus Podlech & L. R. Xu; section Laguropsis Bunge: A. chamaephyton Podlech & L. R. Xu; section Ornithopodium Bunge: A. huochengensis Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. maiusculus Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. sadiensis Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. supralaevis Podlech & L. R. Xu; section Oroboidei A. Gray: A. gongshanensis Podlech & L. R. Xu; section Poliothrix Bunge: A. baxoiensis Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. jiazaensis Podlech & L. R. Xu; section Trachycercis: A. acceptus Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. brevivexillatus Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. filidens Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. glabritubus Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. levidensis Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. lustricola Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. lychnobius Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. macriculus Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. ningxiaensis Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. occultus Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. perbrevis Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. porphyreus Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. secretus Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. sinkiangensis Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. tesquorum Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. transecticola Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. trijugus Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. vescus Podlech & L. R. Xu, A. visibilis Podlech & L. R. Xu; section Uliginosi A. Gray: A. qitaiensis Podlech & L. R. Xu. Furthermore, two taxa are raised in rank.
10.2307/3391870|Two new species of Annonaceae, Sapranthus viridiflorus G. E. Schatz and Unonopsis stevensii G. E. Schatz, are described from Mesoamerica. Color photographs of the new species can be accessed over the World Wide Web by searching the name in W<sup>3TROPICOS</sup> at http://www.mobot.org/Pick/Search/pick.html. /// Se decriben dos especies nuevas de Annonaceae, Sapranthus viridiflorus G. E. Schatz y Unonopsis stevensii G. E. Schatz, de Mesoamerica. Fotografias a color de las especies nuevas son accesibles buscando el nombre en las paginas de Internet de W<sup>3TROPICOS</sup> en la siguiente direccion: http://www.mobot.org/Pick/Search/pick.html.
10.2307/3391599|The following three species described as new in Masdevallia represent three sections of subgenus Masdevallia. Masdevallia goliath is a successively flowered, round-stemmed species of section Coriaceae subsection Durae. Masdevallia mascarata is a member of section Polyanthes subsection Alaticaules, distinguished by triquetrous peduncles. Masdevallia ricii is a member of subsection Saltatrices, noted for the long sepaline tubes, of section Masdevallia.
10.2307/3391949|New combinations in Arabidopsis are proposed. Species previously placed in Cardaminopsis are here transferred to Arabidopsis and taxa previously recognized in Arabidopsis, other than A. thaliana and A. suecica, are excluded from the genus. Distributions and a key to the nine species and five subspecies are presented.
20406288|A new species of Besleria L. (Gesneriaceae) is described and illustrated from Peru. This species is distinguished by having inflorescences composed of few (1 to 5) flowers, lanceolate calyx lobes with the apex acute, and the corolla strongly ventricose. /// Una nueva especie de Besleria L. (Gesneriaceae) del Per es descrita e ilustrada. Esta especie se caracteriza por sus inflorescencias compuestas de pocas flores (1 a 5), lbulos del cliz lanceolados de pice agudo y la corola fuertemente ventricosa.
3393455|Diagnoses, descriptions, and illustrations are presented for four new taxa of Miconia (M. commutata from Costa Rica and Panama, M. danielii and M. tonduzii var. hirtella from Costa Rica, and M. dissita from Panama). Three new combinations (Miconia chinantlana (Naudin) Almeda for Staphidium chinantlanum Naudin; Miconia lundellii (Wurdack) Almeda for Clidemia lundellii Wurdack; and Tibouchina tortuosa (Bonpland) Almeda for Rhexia tortuosa Bonpland) are proposed. Miconia tonduzii Cogniaux is neotypified and its infraspecific taxonomy is revised to include three varieties. Miconia sparrei Wurdack, which was described from Amazonian Ecuador and heretofore known only from the holotype, is redescribed, illustrated, and reported from the Caribbean lowlands of Costa Rica and from Peru. Citations of representative specimens, distributional and phenological notes, and comparisons with probable relatives are provided for each taxon.
23018487|Memecylon pendulum Chih C. Wang, Y. H. Tseng, Y. T. Chen & Kun C. Chang, a new species of Melastomataceae from Taiwan, is described and illustrated. This new species is allied to M. lanceolatum Blanco but is clearly distinguished by its pendulous branchlets, smaller leaves to 7 cm long, shallowly 4-lobed calyx, obtuse or rounded apices of flower buds, and yellowish green fruit at maturity.
3393545|A new species of fern, Phegopteris koreana (Thelypteridaceae), was collected from southern Korea and is described here. Phegopteris koreana is most similar to P. decursive-pinnata morphologically; however, the new species consistently shows discontinuous morphological gaps from the latter in the shape of the fronds, pinnae, and ultimate segments, venation pattern in ultimate segments, tufted trichomes in the sori, and spore wall sculpturing.
10.2307/3391881|Dubautia syndetica G. Carr & Lorence from the Hawaiian Island of Kaua'i is described and illustrated. The new species is distinguished from congeners on the basis of its combination of uniseriate, somewhat coalescent receptacular bracts, coarsely glandular peduncles, glandular corolla tubes, and conspicuously strigose achenes. These and other features suggest a possible hybrid origin from D. laxa Hooker & Arnott subsp. hirsuta (Hillebrand) G. Carr and D. raillardioides Hillebrand.
10.2307/3391922|Two new species of Selaginella from Madagascar, S. bemarahensis and S. marinii, are described and illustrated, as are a new subspecies of S. nivea Alston and a new form of S. fissidentoides (Hooker & Greville) Spring var. fissidentoides. The Malagasy species S. fissidentoides is segregated into two varieties, one of which has been previously known as S. amphirrhizos A. Braun ex Hieronymus. The taxonomic position and closest relationships of each taxon are briefly discussed.
10.2307/3391462|The new genus Dendrothrix is proposed. Two of its species are new to science, the third one was originally allied to Sapium. Keys for distinguishing related genera using flowers, fruits, and leaves are provided, as is a key to the species of Dendrothrix.
10.2307/3391909|Two new combinations are provided for Chinese species of Poaceae: Kengyilia leiantha (Keng) L. B. Cai and Kengyilia kaschgarica (D. F. Cui) L. B. Cai.
10.2307/3392181|While revising the Melastomataceae for the Flora of Thailand, we discovered two new species of Sonerila, as well as the need for transferring two species of Tylanthera endemic to Thailand into Phyllagathis. Sonerila urceolata and S. loeiensis are endemic to the southeast and the northeast of Thailand, respectively. The first is allied to the widespread S. erecta Jack, from which it differs mainly in the strongly urceolate capsule and the sessile fruit placenta; the second is distinguished from other acaulescent species of Sonerila by its extremely long-petiolate large leaves and long-pedunculate inflorescence. The new combinations, Phyllagathis tuberosa (Hansen) Cellinese & Renner and P. siamensis Cellinese & Renner nom. nov., are made because both taxa lie inside the morphologic and phylogenetic bounds of Phyllagathis.
40856298|Fagopyrum pugense T. Yu (Polygonaceae, Polygonoideae), known only from Luojishan, Puge County, Sichuan Province, China, is described and illustrated. It is closely related to F. gracilipes (Hemsl.) Dammer ex Diels, but differs in the plants having thicker stems and branches with densely erectvillose pubescence, numerous nodes and short internodes, ovate to cordate leaves that are minutely rugose with small pustules, and small achenes. The karyotype studies were also conducted, and the results are presented.
10.2307/3393212|Lectotypes for 11 species of Tococa are here designated, either because the holotypes were lost during the fire at Berlin and there are known extant isotypes, or because several syntypes were cited in the original descriptions. Three neotypes are here designated, since the holotypes are lost or destroyed and no isotypes have been located to date.
40300902|Three new species of Indigofera L. (Leguminosae) are described from Sichuan and Yunnan provinces in China. Indigofera shipingensis X. F. Gao, known only from a single specimen collected in 1961 from Shiping County, Yunnan, has unifoliolate leaves and is most similar to I. caloneura Kurz from southern Yunnan and Southeast Asia. Indigofera megaphylla X. F. Gao, described from Yuanjiang County and also endemic to neighboring Shiping County in southern Yunnan, resembles I. dichroa Craib and I. balfouriana Craib from western to northern Yunnan, Sichuan, and southern Xizang, although these two species have much smaller leaflets. Indigofera pseudoheterantha X. F. Gao & Schrire is described from Sichuan County and occurs from the Daocheng to Miyi counties in southwestern Sichuan to the Zhongdian region of northwestern Yunnan, and appears closely related to I. heterantha Wallich ex Brandis from northwestern Yunnan to southern Xizang, westward to the Himalayas.
20406033|The new combination Arnica lanceolata subsp. prima (Maguire) Strother & S. J. Wolf is proposed as the correct name for Arnica lanceolata subsp. amplexicaulis (Nuttall) Gruezo.
10.2307/3391430|Four new species of Hedyosmum, all belonging to subgenus Tafalla sect. Microcarpa, are herein proposed. Hedyosmum uniflorum occurs in mid-elevation montane regions in central Ecuador and differs from its closest relative, H. bonplandianum, by its basally rounded, sometimes oblique leaves, flocculose midveins, slightly fimbriate stipular appendages, and long, linear, dissected stigmas. Hedyosmum narinoense, which inhabits the western slopes of the western cordillera in southern Colombia, also has single-flowered cymules but is unique among the solitary-flowered cymule species by having shorter pistillate inflorescences and scabrous, scurfy leaf sheaths. The remaining two new species, H. tepuiense and H. intermedium, are found in the Venezuelan Guayana. Hedyosmum tepuiense is recognized as distinct from the broadly ranging H. racemosum by virtue of its long stipular appendages, verrucose leaf sheaths, floccose midveins, and longer inflorescences. Morphologically intermediate between H. gentryi and H. neblinae, Hedyosmum intermedium is distinguished by its glabrous, elliptic leaves and 2-3-flowered purple-fruited cymules.
20406273|A new species, Piper giordanoi E. F. Guimares & D. Monteiro, from Rio de Janeiro state, southeastern Brazil, is described and illustrated. The taxon is related to P. weddellii C. DC. and P. sampaioi Yuncker. The new species differs in its shrubby habit and longer petioles. The lack of submarginal trichomes on the abaxial leaf surface distinguishes P. giordanoi from P. sampaioi. /// Piper giordanoi E. F. Guimares & D. Monteiro, uma nova espcie do estado do Rio de Janeiro, sudeste do Brasil,  descrita e ilustrada. O txon est relacionado a P. weddellii C. DC. e P. sampaioi Yuncker. A nova espcie difere de ambos, por ser um arbusto com pecolos mais longos. A ausncia de tricomas submarginais na face abaxial da superfcie foliar distingue P. giordanoi de P. sampaioi.
10.2307/3391988|A new species of Passiflora, P. telesiphe, is described in subgenus Decaloba. This species was discovered as a result of observations on the natural history and foodplants of a butterfly (Heliconius telesiphe-Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae: Heliconiiti), whose young stages were previously unknown. The new species and its herbivore are illustrated. The relationships of P. telesiphe to other similar Ecuadorean species of Passiflora are briefly discussed.
10.2307/3391446|The taxa Gentiana densiflora T. N. Ho, G. kunmingensis S. W. Liu, G. myrioclada var. wuxiensis T. N. Ho & S. W. Liu, G. xingrenensis T. N. Ho, and Swertia luquanensis S. W. Liu are described as new. The new combinations G. cephalantha Franchet ex Forbes & Hemsley var. vaniotii (Lveill) T. N. Ho, G. davidii Franchet var. fukienensis (Ling) T. N. Ho, G. lawrencei Burkill var. farreri (I. B. Balfour) T. N. Ho, G. ninglangensis T. N. Ho var. glabrescens (Harry Smith) T. N. Ho, G. prostrata Haenke var. ludlowii (Marquand) T. N. Ho, G. pulvinarum W. W. Smith subsp. subtilis (Harry Smith) T. N. Ho, G. stipitata Edgeworth subsp. tizuensis (Franchet) T. N. Ho, G. suborbisepala Marquand var. kialensis (Marquand) T. N. Ho, G. trichotoma Kusnezow var. chingii (Marquand) T. N. Ho, G. wardii W. W. Smith var. emergens (Marquand) T. N. Ho, and Swertia wardii Marquand var. rigida (T. N. Ho & S. W. Liu) T. N. Ho are proposed.
3393495|The following changes are made in Poaceae, necessary for the upcoming Flora of China. Kengia chinensis is lectotypified on a specimen of K. hackelii, and hence becomes a synonym of the latter. Kengia gracilis is synonymized under K. mucronata. Isachne clarkei is lectotypified. Isachne beneckei (also lectotypified) and I. tenuis are placed as synonyms of I. clarkei. Isachne albens var. hirsuta is lectotypified and placed as a synonym under I. sylvestris. Isachne semitalis is lectotypified and placed in synonymy of I. schmidtii. The distinctions between the closely related species I. kunthiana, I. schmidtii, and I. repens are discussed. The new species Arundinella suniana, from Yunnan province and related to A. setosa, is described. Arundinella setosa var. esetosa is validated. The name Arundinella hupeiensis is rejected as a homonym due to its similarity to the name A. hubeiensis. Eccoilopus bambusoides is transferred to Spodiopogon, necessary with the inclusion of Eccoilopus within Spodiopogon. The new species Imperata flavida is described from Hainan, distinguished from I. cylindrica mainly by its much shorter spikelet hairs. Erianthus griffithii var. trichophyllus is transferred to Saccharum arundinaceum as S. arundinaceum var. trichophyllum, as Erianthus is included within Saccharum. Polytrias amaura var. nana is transferred to P. indica, the correct name for P. amaura. Coelorachis striata var. pubescens is transferred to Mnesithea, a necessary transfer when Coelorachis is regarded as a synonym of Mnesithea. Discussion of the changes is provided throughout.
40856289|TWO new species of Cryptocarya R. Br., C. panamensis P. L. R. Moraes & van der Werff, from Coln, Panama, and yasuniensis P. L. R. Moraes & van der Werff, from Napo, Ecuador, are described and illustrated. Additionally, the occurrence of guianensis Meisn. in Ecuador is here reported for the first time.
10.2307/3391833|New combinations in the genus Krascheninnikovia are proposed: K. arborescens (Losina-Losinskaja) Mosyakin, K. compacta (Losina-Losinskaja) Grubov var. longipilosa (Tsien Cho-po & Ma Cheng-gung) Mosyakin, and Krascheninnikovia sect. Caudatae (Aellen) Mosyakin.
10.2307/3392220|Central and South American Pollalesta is reduced to synonymy of West Indian Piptocoma. Fourteen new species combinations and three new sectional combinations are made, and Piptocoma acevedoi from Puerto Rico is described as new, raising the number of species in Piptocoma from 3 to 18. A key to the four sections of Piptocoma is also provided.
10.2307/3391386|A new genus and species of trees from Costa Rica and northern South America, Ruptiliocarpon caracolito, is described and compared to the African Lepidobotrys. It is distinguished from Lepidobotrys primarily by its much shorter filaments, basifixed rather than versatile anthers, its lack of styles, its two-rather than three-locular ovary, and by its irregularly dehiscent fruits with a woody exocarp and cartilagineous endocarp. In wood anatomy, apart from the presence of vestured pits in Ruptiliocarpon, the two genera are remarkably similar. They match in important floral and fruit characteristics (dioecious; 5 + 5 stamens of unequal length with filaments fused at base; two apical, collateral ovules per locule; one-seeded fruit; black seed with a large red aril and no endosperm), and both have unifoliolate leaves with very fugaceous stipules and stipels, and leaf-opposed inflorescences. The familial placement of Lepidobotrys has been controversial: the genus was placed first in the Linaceae by Engler, then in the Oxalidaceae by Hallier, then in its own family (between Linaceae and Erythroxylaceae) by Lonard, and then again in the Oxalidaceae by Cronquist. Reviewing evidence, old and new, we maintain Ruptiliocarpon and Lepidobotrys (only) in the Lepidobotryaceae and suggest that they relate more to Sapindales or possibly Euphorbiaceae than to Oxalidaceae.
23259347|The new genus Autana C. T. Philbrick and species A. andersonii C. T. Philbrick are illustrated and described. The new species is documented from four rivers that drain into the Orinoco River, Amazonas, Venezuela. Autana is distinguished by three characters that do not occur in other Neotropical Podostemaceae. The upper surface of the flattened stem has an anastomosing pattern that is derived from a continuation of leaf margins. When the capsule is mature, the pedicel apex (and receptacle) is swollen and hollow. After anthesis, locations where the deciduous stamens attached become darkened and shaped like an inverted teardrop. Phylogenetic analyses indicate A. andersonii is sister to a clade containing species of Castelnavia Tul. & Wedd., Oserya Tul. & Wedd., Noveloa C. T. Philbrick, and Rhyncholacis Tul., as well as upright stemmed species of Apinagia Tul., and Central American and Mexican species of Marathrum Bonpl. Se ilustran y describen un gnero Autana C. T. Philbrick y una especie A. andersonii C. T. Philbrick nuevos. La especie nueva se registra de cuatro ros que desembocan en el ro Orinoco, Amazonas, Venezuela. Autana se distingue de otras Podostemaceae por tres caracteres que no se encuentran en ninguna de las otras especies de Podostemaceae neotropicales. La superficie superior del tallo aplanado tiene una figura anostomosada que surge de una continuidad de los mrgenes de la hoja. Cuando la cpsula se madura, el pice del pedicelo (y receptculo) se hincha y se torna hueco. Los sitios donde los estambres caedizos estaban unidos, se oscurecen y toman la forma de una lgrima invertida. Los anlisis filogenticos indican que A. andersonii es hermana de un clado que contiene especies de Castelnavia Tul. & Wedd., Oserya Tul. & Wedd., Noveloa C. T. Philbrick y Rhyncholacis Tul., as como de especies con tallos erguidos de Apinagia Tul. y de especies centroamericanas y mexicanas de Marathrum Bonpl.
10.2307/3393183|Tournefortia vasquezii J. S. Miller is described from Cajamarca, Peru. It is a distinctive species with setaceous sepals, 4-6 mm long, and its unusual bullate leaves are unique in the genus. While its relationships within the genus are not clear, it shares its shrubby growth form, setaceous sepals, ovate corolla lobes, and elongate styles with Tournefortia spicata J. S. Miller and T. restrepoae J. S. Miller, other understory species of mid-elevation Andean forests.
40300917|The new species Tibouchina melanocalyx R. Romero, P. J. F. Guimaraes & Leoni (Melastomataceae) presents a glabrous hypanthium and calyx lobes, is black in dried material, has glabrous filaments and style, and has an ovary with a furrowed apex with five oblong appendages. These characteristics of the hypanthium and ovary are unique within the genus Tibouchina Aublet. This species occurs in highland, campos de altitude vegetation from the National Park of Caparao and State Park of Serra do Brigadeiro, in Minas Gerais, Brazil. /// A espcie indita Tibouchina melanocalyx R. Romero, P. J. F. Guimares & Leoni (Melastomataceae) apresenta hipanto e lacmas do calice glabras e nigrescentes no material herborizado, filetes e estilete glabros e ovrio com pice fendido com cinco apndices oblongos. As caractersticas do hipanto e do ovrio so nicas para o gnero Tibouchina Aublet. Esta espcie ocorre em campos de altitude dos Parque Nacional do Capara e Parque Estadual da Serra do Brigadeiro, no estado de Minas Gerais, Brazil.
10.2307/3391899|The following new names are proposed for Leptochloa P. Beauvois s.l. (including Diplachne P. Beauvois), based on recent revisionary and cladistic studies: Leptochloa caudata, L. decipiens subsp. asthenes, L. decipiens subsp. peacockii, L. eleusine, L. fusca subsp. muelleri, L. fusca subsp. fascicularis, L. fusca subsp. uninervia, L. gigantea, and L. panicea subsp. brachiata.
10.2307/3391459|Five new species, Chusquea falcata, C subulata, C. barbata, C. spathacea, and C. pulchella, are described and illustrated. One new combination, Chusquea attenuata (Doell in Martius) L. G. Clark, is proposed for a Brazilian species originally described as an Arundinaria, based on a vegetative specimen.
40856324|Delimitation of genera in the Neotropical tribe Guettardeae (Rubiaceae) has varied; here a key outlines the current taxonomy in South America and southern Central America. Three new species of Chomelia Jacq. are described and illustrated: the unarmed species C. chiquitensis M. Taylor of deciduous vegetation in eastern Bolivia differs from and shorter corollas; the spiny species costaricensis M. Taylor of humid vegetation in northern Costa Rica differs from C. microloba Donn. Sm. in its longer corolla and lack of domatia on the leaves; and the unarmed species torrara M. Taylor of wet montane vegetation in northwestern Colombia is distinguished by its short inflorescences with redviolet corollas and its leaves with the higher-order venation not visible. A second species of Neoblakea Standl., N. ecuadorensis Taylor of seasonal vegetation in western Ecuador, differs from N.venezuelensis Standl. in its leaves broadly obtuse to rounded at the base and its larger fruits. A second species of Pittoniotis Griseb., P. rotata Taylor, is described based on a specimen from Ecuador and is also known from Peru; it differs from P. trichantha Griseb. of seasonal lowland vegetation in the Caribbean basin in its corollas with shorter tubes, its larger fruits, and its habitat in wet premontane vegetation. The genus Stenostomum F. Gaertn. has been recently circumscribed to include several Neotropical species, and three additional species are here transferred to it: Chione darienensis Dwyer, as 5.darienense (Dwyer) CM. Taylor; Guettarda acreana K. Krause, as S. acreanum (K. Krause) CM. Taylor; and G. turrialbana N. Zamora & Po veda, as S.turrialbanum (N. Zamora & Poveda) M. Taylor.Conservation status assessments are presented for all of these species except G. acreanum, which is widespread and in need of further study. La delimitacin de los gneros de la tribu neotropical Guettardeae (Rubiaceae) ha variado; aqu se presenta una clave que delinea la actual taxonoma sericea Mll. Arg. of Baha, Brazil, en Amrica del Sur y el sur de Amrica Central. Se describen e ilustran tres nuevas especies de Chomelia Jacq.: la especie inerme chiquitensis CM. Taylor de vegetacin caducifolia del este de Bolivia difiere de C. sericea Mll. Arg. de Baha, Brasil, por sus brcteas lineares y corolas ms cortas; la especie espinosa costaricensis C M . Taylor de vegetacin hmeda del norte de Costa Rica difiere de C.microloba Donn. Sm. por su corola ms larga y la ausencia de domacios en las hojas; y la especie inerme torrana CM. Taylor de vegetacin hmeda montana del noroeste de Colombia se distingue por sus inflorescencias cortas con corolas de un rojovioleta y sus hojas con la nervadura de orden mayor no visible. Una segunda especie de Neoblakea Standl., N. ecuadorensis CM. Taylor, de vegetacin estacional del oeste de Ecuador difiere de N. venezuelensis Standl. en sus hojas ampliamente obtusas a redondeadas en la base y los frutos ms grandes. Una segunda especie de Pittoniotis Griseb., P. rotata tambin es conocida de Per, y difiere de P.trichantha Griseb. de la vegetacin de tierras bajas estacional del Caribe por sus corolas con tubos ms cortos, sus frutos ms grandes y su habitat de vegetacin premontana hmeda. El gnero Stenostomum F. Gaertn. se ha circunscrito recientemente para incluir varias especies neotropicales, y aqu se transfieren tres especies adicionales: Chione darienensis Dwyer, como S. darienense (Dwyer) M.Taylor; Guettarda acreana Krause, como S. acreanum Krause) M. Taylor; y G. turrialbana N.Zamora & Poveda, como S. turrialbanum (N. Zamora & Poveda) C. M. Taylor. Se presentan evaluaciones del estado de conservacin para todas estas especies excepto G. acreanum, que est muy extendida y necesita de ms estudio.
20406172|Lectotypification for a legume fossil species, Wisteria fallax (Nathorst) Tanai & Onoe from the Neogene of Japan, is presented here. A figure previously designated as the lectotype for W. fallax by Tanai is not tenable because the ICBN (St. Louis Code, Art. 8.5 and 9.13) does not allow a figure to serve as the type for the name of a fossil taxon.
43288949|Two names proposed by H. S. Kiu, Croton dinghuensis (Euphorbiaceae) and Helicia yangchunensis (Proteaceae), were originally described from Guangdong, China, but were invalidly published because the author failed to specify the repository herbarium of the types. These names are validated by designating G. L Shi 2763 (IBSC) as the holotype of C. dinghuensis H. S. Kiu and Zhanjiang Expedition 03261 (IBSC) as the holotype of H. yangchunensis H. S. Kiu.
10.2307/3391968|Eltroplectris brachycentron Szlachetko from Bolivia is described and illustrated, and its taxonomic position is briefly discussed. An illustrated key to the Bolivian species of Eltroplectris is provided.
20406047|The genus Bolandia (Asteraceae, Senecioneae) comprises two known species, B. pedunculosa and B. argillacea, previously included in Cineraria. Distinguishing features of Bolandia include the fusiform shape of the cypselae and strong median rib on the glabrous inner surface of the ray and outer disc cypselae, solitary ecalyculate capitula on long peduncles, and a truncate style apex with a central tuft of sweeping hairs. Bolandia occurs in the mountains of the Western Cape in southern Africa, with a disjunct population of B. pedunculosa in the Witteberg of the Eastern Cape and the nearby Drakensberg mountains in Lesotho. Bolandia argillacea is endemic to the mountains near Worcester in the Western Cape. Two forms of B. pedunculosa are informally recognized, a tomentose and a glabrescent form, the latter including plants previously known as C. albomontana.
10.2307/3393149|Two new endemic species, P. cachimboense from Mato Grosso and P. goyasense from Distrito Federal and Gois, Brazil, are described, illustrated, and compared with putatively related species. Keys to the new species and related taxa of Paspalum subg. Ceresia are also presented.
10.2307/3393573|A new species of Melastomataceae from Bolivia is described, illustrated, and placed in a phenetic context within Miconia, a genus of 1000 species and about 2000 published names. Miconia quadrialata is readily distinguished from its congeners by two-colored leaves and sharply four-angular and winged branchlets. A search for quadrangular-branched miconias revealed that 12 of 15 such species (in four sections), including the new species, occur in cloud forest in the Andes, raising the question of the adaptive significance of quadrangular branchlets.
10.2307/3393018|During preparation of accounts for the genera in the Convallariaceae for the Flora of China, Volume 24, it was decided that Polygonatum ginfushanicum (F. T. Wang & Tang) F. T. Wang & Tang (Smilacina ginfushanica F. T. Wang & Tang) should be transferred to Heteropolygonatum, as H. ginfushanicum (F. T. Wang & Tang) M. N. Tamura, S. C. Chen & Turland.
10.2307/3391664|Roegneria tridentata is described and illustrated, and its karyotype is characterized.
10.2307/3391668|Merostachys burmannii, a new species from Brazil, is described and illustrated.
43289105|Four species of Anisotes Nees (Acanthaceae) are described from northern and west-central Madagascar: A. hygroscopicus T. F. Daniel, Letsara & Martn-Bravo, A. perplexus T. F. Daniel, Letsara & Martn-Bravo, A. subcoriaceus T. F. Daniel, Letsara & Martn-Bravo, and A. venosus T. F. Daniel, Letsara & Martin-Bravo. A key to the six species of the genus known from Madagascar, all of them endemic to the island, is provided. Morphological features previously unknown in the genus are noted for A. hygroscopicus and A. venosus (hygroscopic trichomes on seeds), A. subcoriaceus (2-colporate, pseudocolpate pollen lacking insulae), and A. perplexus (2-pororate pollen). None of these species can be treated with certainty in any of the currently recognized sections of Anisotes. Data pertinent to the conservation status of each species are provided.
10.2307/3393266|Two problematical species from the Himalaya that lie on the boundary between Agrostis and Deyeuxia are discussed. One is transferred to Deyeuxia as Deyeuxia petelotii with the new synonym D. continentalis. The name Deyeuxia abnormis J. D. Hooker is retained for the second species, which is confirmed as distinct from D. zenkeri. Two other species are transferred to Deyeuxia from Calamagrostis: Deyeuxia sichuanensis and Deyeuxia korotkyi.
20406310|Galactia watsoniana W. C. Holmes & Singhurst (Fabaceae, Papilionoideae), endemic to the southern part of the Balcones Escarpment of central Texas, is described as new. The new species is distinguished from G. volubilis (L.) Britton, its apparent nearest relative, by its solitary and larger flowers (17-22 mm vs. 6-12 mm), strigillose trichomes on plant surfaces, presence of a narrow white border on the leaflet margins, and ovate leaflets with reticulated abaxial surfaces.
10.2307/3391797|Four new species of Piper are described from China: P. dolichostachyum, P. tsengianum, P. wangii, and P. yui; one new combination is made: Piper boehmeriifolium var. glabricaule; a new name, Piper cathayanum, is proposed for a later homonym; the identities of Piper arboricola and P. philippinum are discussed; and new synonyms and lectotypes are proposed for various other species of Peperomia and Piper.
10.2307/3393249|Neomitranthes obtusa (Myrtaceae), a treelet from restinga forests in Esprito Santo, southeastern Brazil, is described, illustrated, and compared with the apparently related Neomitranthes glomerata, from which it is distinguished by its obtuse leaves, inconspicuous venation, fewer secondary veins, and smaller petioles. /// Neomitranthes obtusa (Myrtaceae), un arbolito de las restingas de Esprito Santo, en el sudeste de Brasil, es descrita, ilustrada y comparada con la especie aparentemente afin Neomitranthes glomerata, de la cual se distingue por las hojas obtusas, la venacin inconspicua, el nmero menor de nervios secundarios y los peciolos ms cortos.
3393301|Neolourya is included in Peliosanthes (Convallariaceae), as their difference is confined to the shape of the style and seems insufficient for generic delimitation. As a result, a new combination, P. weberi (L. Rodriguez) N. Tanaka, is proposed. The other two species of Neolourya, N. pierrei L. Rodriguez and N. thailandica K. Larsen, are reduced to synonymy of P. weberi, as no appreciable morphological difference is found among them. Peliosanthes weberi is characterized chiefly by its slender tortuous style and by the antisepalous anthers often more concealed than the antipetalous ones by the coroniform united filaments.
10.2307/3391505|Melpomene, a new genus of Grammitidaceae, is described, and combinations are made for the species known to belong to it. Melpomene can be distinguished from all other Grammitidaceae by its rhizome scales that are clathrate, basally cordate, and entire except at the apex where provided with one to ten minute papillae. The genus contains about 20 species and is primarily neotropical.
20406193|Se describe Dalea schiblii Medina & M. Sousa (Fabaceae, Amorpheae), una especie nueva, arbrea, del bosque de Pinus L.--Quercus L., en el estado de Oaxaca, Mxico. Se discuten y comparan sus caractersticas morfolgicas con las de otras especies mexicanas de Dalea Lucanus. Se proporciona una clave para las especies del subgnero Parosela (Cavanilles) Barneby seccin Parosela Barneby serie Lasiostomae (Rydberg) Barneby. /// Dalea schiblii Medina & M. Sousa (Fabaceae, Amorpheae), a new arborescent species from Pinus L.--Quercus L. forest in the state of Oaxaca, Mexico, is described and illustrated. Its morphological characteristics are discussed and compared to those of other Mexican species of Dalea Lucanus. A key for the species of subgenus Parosela (Cavanilles) Barneby sect. Parosela Barneby ser. Lasiostomae (Rydberg) Barneby is provided.
40300953|We describe and illustrate the new species Paepalanthus bonsai Trov & Sano (Eriocaulaceae, Paepalanthoideae) from the Espinhao Range in Minas Gerais, Brazil. This species is placed in Paepalanthus Martius subsect. Dichocladus Ruhland due to its dichotomously branched stem with rigid linear leaves. The new species is compared with the sympatric and morphologically similar species P. glaziovii Ruhland. /// Descrevemos e ilustramos a nova espcie Paepalanthus bonsai Trov & Sano (Eriocaulaceae, Paepalanthoideae) ocorrente na Cadeia do Espinhao, em Minas Gerais, Brasil. A espcie  posicionada em Paepalanthus Martius subsect. Dichocladus Ruhland por possuir caule dicotomicamente ramificado e folhas lineares rgidas. Comparamos esta nova espcie com a espcie simptrica e mais semelhante morfologicamente, P. glaziovii Ruhland.
10.2307/3391502|Gynoxys carpishensis, G. rimachiana, and Senecio tuestae are transferred to Aequatorium, Gynoxys regis is transferred to Paragynoxys, and Aequatorium cajamarcense, A. juninense, A. kingii, A. tovarii, Gynoxys chingualensis, G. jaramilloi, and G. hutchisonii are described as new.
20406241|Se describe e ilustra Salvia yukoyukparum Fernndez Alonso (Labiatae), una nueva especie endmica de la Serrana de Perij, Colombia, asignable a Salvia sect. Tomentellae (Epling) Epling, seccin no registrada previamente en territorio colombiano. Se comenta la distribucin conocida y el estatus de conservacin y se discuten las posibles afinidades de esta especie. Se presenta una clave para separar las especies suramericanas de la seccin Tomentellae. /// The new species Salvia yukoyukparum Fernndez Alonso (Labiatae) is described and illustrated; it is endemic to the Serrana of Perij, Colombia, and is assigned to Salvia sect. Tomentellae (Epling) Epling, a section not previously recorded from Colombia. Its known distribution and conservation status is commented upon, and the possible affinities of this species are discussed. A key for the South American species of Salvia sect. Tomentellae is presented.
10.2307/3391805|Stemmadenia abbreviata and S. simulans are described from Costa Rica and Panama, and Tabernaemontana leeuwenbergiana is described from Colombia.
10.2307/3391525|The taxon Arceuthobium pini var. sichuanense, a parasite of Picea in southwestern China, is raised to specific rank. It is allopatric with A. pini, which differs in its parasitism of Pinus, its much larger shoots, and its smaller male flowers.
10.2307/3391513|Lepidium tayloriae from Atacama (Region III), Chile, is described and illustrated. Its relationship to L. pseudodidymum and L. strictum is discussed, and its distinguishing characters from these and other South American species are given.
10.2307/3391857|In conjunction with a treatment of Smilax (Smilacaceae) for the Flora of the Venezuelan Guayana, a number of taxonomic changes are proposed for previously described taxa from southern Venezuela. A discussion of morphological characters used in the revision and a key to the species in the Venezuelan Guayana are also presented.
10.2307/3393103|A new species of Gagnebina from northern Madagascar, G. bakoliae Luckow & Du Puy, is described and illustrated. The new species is most similar to G. bernieriana, and shares with it features such as resting buds, dehiscent fruits, and pollen in 16-celled polyads. Gagnebina bakoliae differs from G. bernieriana in having the pinnae decrescent both apically and basally, the petiole densely tomentose adaxially but glabrous abaxially, and pods somewhat larger and darker in color.
10.2307/3391377|The occurrence of Sessea corymbiflora in Venezuela is reported for the first time. It is presented here as a new species and an additional genus for the solanaceous flora of Venezuela. A description and illustration of the species are provided. The contorted nomenclature of S. corymbiflora is discussed, and the names S. corymbosa and S. atrovirens, in current use as referring to distinct entities, are reduced to synonymy.
40960837|Recent Neotropical exploration and floristic studies have continued the discovery of species of Rubiaceae new to science, including the six species described here: Bouvardia costaricensis C. M. Taylor of central Costa Rica is distinguished by its foliaceous enlarged calyx lobes and long white salverform corollas; Hillia puntila C. M. Taylor of dwarf montane forests in central Peru is distinguished by its quite small leaves and stipules; Joosia antioquiana C. M. Taylor of northwestern Colombia is distinguished by its long stipules, leaves with numerous secondary veins, and four entire (i.e., unornamented) corolla lobes; Ladenbergia franciscana C. M. Taylor of southern Ecuador is distinguished by its calyptrate stipules, small, mostly obtuse leaves, and shallowly lobed calyx limb; Pentagonia osaensis C. M. Taylor of southern Costa Rica is distinguished by its dense pilosulose to velutinous pubescence and its subtruncate to very shallowly lobed calyx limb; and Posoqueria laevis Taylor of Panama is distinguished by its leaves with the secondary and higher-order venation not visible. Recientes exploraciones y estudios florsticos neotropicales han seguido con el descubrimiento de especies de Rubiaceae nuevas para la ciencia, incluidas las seis especies descritas a continuacin: Bouvardia costaricensis C. M. Taylor, del centro de Costa Rica, se distingue por sus lbulos del cliz agrandados y foliceos y la corola larga, blanca, hipocraterimorfa; Hillia pumila C. M. Taylor, de los bosques montanos enanos del centro de Per, se distingue por sus hojas y estpulas muy pequeas; Joosia antioquiana C. M. Taylor, del noroeste de Colombia, se distingue por sus estpulas largas, hojas con numerosas nervaduras secundarias y cuatro lobos de la corola enteros (es decir, no ornamentados); Ladenbergia franciscana M. Taylor, del sur de Ecuador, se caracteriza por su estpulas caliptradas, las hojas pequeas y mayormente obtusas y el limbo del cliz ligeramente lobulado; Pentagonia osaensis densa pubescencia pilsula a velutina y el limbo calicino subtruncado a muy ligeramente lobulado; y Posoqueria laevis C. M. Taylor de Panam se distingue por sus hojas con la nervadura secundaria y de orden superior no visible.
40300907|Solarium anomalostemon S. Knapp & M. Nee is described from Cusco in southern Peru. The species is endemic to the Ro Apurmac basin and is known from very few collections. The new species has unique anther morphology within Solanum L.; this is compared to other anther variants in the genus. Potential relationships of this unusual and enigmatic species are discussed, the new species is illustrated, and a preliminary conservation assessment of Endangered (EN) is proposed. /// Solanum anomalostemon S. Knapp & M. Nee se describe de Cusco para el sur de Per. La especie es endmica de la cuenca del Ro Apurmac y conocida por muy pocas colecciones. La especie nueva tiene anteras con una morfologa nica en Solanum L., que son comparadas con otras variaciones de anteras en el gnero. Las relaciones potenciales de S. anomalostemon estan detalladas; se ilustra la especie y se le atribuye un estado de conservacion preliminar de En Peligro (EN).
10.2307/3392072|Two new species of Cynanchum in South America are described, C. bifidum Liede & Meve and C. trollii Liede & Meve. One South American Cynanchum species is transferred to Oxypetalum, fourteen to Metastelma, and four to Ditassa. Stelmatocodon and Fontellaea are recognized as synonyms of Philibertia.
10.2307/3391510|Phanerophlebia gastonyi, a new Mexican species, is described, and P. remotispora is reduced to varietal status under P. nobilis.
40300903|Eleocharis tenarum S. Gonzalez & M. Gonzlez (Cyperaceae), an endemic to dry temperate forests in Mexico, is described from Zacatecas and Durango. It belongs to Eleocharis R. Brown sect. Eleocharis subser. Truncatae Svenson s. l. and can be recognized by its basally burgundy to rose-purple upper sheaths with oblique, not truncate or cuspidate apex, and its dark brown achenes that are finely reticulate with longitudinally elongated cells. /// Se describe Eleocharis tenarum S. Gonzlez & M. Gonzlez (Cyperaceae), nueva especie endmica de bosques de clima templado seco de los estados de Durango y Zacatecas, Mexico. Forma parte de Eleocharis R. Brown sect. Eleocharis subser. Truncatae Svenson s. l. y se reconoce por sus vainas superiores basalmente de color rojo-vino a rosa-prpura, con pice oblicuo, no truncado ni cuspidado, y por su aquenio de color caf oscuro finamente reticulado con celdillas longitudinalmente alargadas.
10.2307/3392160|Se da a conocer una nueva combinacin para una especie sudamericana originalmente descripta bajo Poa: Festuca nigriflora (Hitchcock) Negritto & Anton (Poaceae). El material tpico es descripto e ilustrado. /// A new combination is made for a South American species originally described under Poa: Festuca nigriflora (Hitchcock) Negritto & Anton (Poaceae). The typical material is described and illustrated.
20406211|A new species, Tulipa faribae Ghahreman, Attar & Ghahremani-Nejad (Liliaceae), endemic to the Zagros Mountains of Kermanshah province, Iran, is described and illustrated. It is placed in the subgenus Leiostemones Boissier due to its lack of trichomes on the filaments and on the base of the tepals, and it appears to be most closely related to T. schrenkii Regel, due to its large bulb size, a papery tunic lined inside with some silky appressed hairs, and tepals usually scarlet with a black blotch margined with yellow. The new species differs in having flatter leaf margins, a more robust stem (to 8 mm in diameter), and larger perianth parts (tepals to 100 mm long).
10.2307/3392131|Pycnostachys recurvata, a new species from Ethiopia, is described and illustrated. Comparisons are made to P. pseudospeciosa and P. chevalieri, which it resembles by having recurved leaves, and to P. niamniamensis, P. reticulata, and P. deflexifolia, which it resembles in calyx shape.
10.2307/3393525|The new species Schradera obtusifolia C. M. Taylor (Rubiaceae) from Costa Rica and Panama is described and illustrated. This has previously been confused with S. costaricensis dwyer which also has obtuse to rounded leaf apices.
3393440|A new species, Pseudotaxiphyllum obtusifolium Z. Iwatsuki & B. C. Tan (Hypnaceae, Musci), is described. This moss species is related to P. pohliaecarpum (Sullivant & Lesquereux) Z. Iwatsuki, which is widely distributed in East Asia. The two most remarkable characters distinguishing this new species from P. pohliaecarpum are the shape of leaf apices, which in the former are widely obtuse to round, and also the larger laminal cells in the new species.
20406321|The lectotype is designated for Myriophyllum oguraense Miki, a species described from Japan in 1934. This taxon is listed as an endangered species in Japan. Among Asian taxa, M. oguraense is distinguished by its monoecious habit and glaucous leaves.
20406046|Oresbia heterocarpa Cron & B. Nordenstam (Asteraceae, Senecioneae) is described as a new genus and species from South Africa. Until now the species has been known as Cineraria tomentosa Lessing, although first described as Senecio lanatus L. f. Both of these names are illegitimate. Characteristic features of Oresbia are the perennial habit with sessile, non-pinnatifid leaves, which are densely tomentose below, and the heteromorphic cypselae with four-winged ray-floret cypselae. The closest affinities of Oresbia may be with Phaneroglossa B. Nordenstam and possibly also Lamprocephalus B. Nordenstam, which have similar distribution ranges in the Western Cape mountains.
3393492| El estudio de las colecciones tipo de los diferentes taxones del gnero Mandevilla Lindley (Apocynaceae), ha determinado que Echites speciosum Kunth, debe ser excluido de la sinonimia de M. subsagittata (Ruiz & Pavn) Woodson. Por lo tanto, se establece una nueva combinacin, Mandevilla speciosa (Apocynaceae, Apocynoideae, Mesechiteae), y M. fendleri se reduce a su sinonimia. Adicionalmente, se designa un neotipo para Mitozus discolor Miers. /// The study of the type collections from the different taxa in the genus Mandevilla Lindley (Apocynaceae) has established that Echites speciosum must be excluded from the synonymy of M. subsagittata (Ruiz & Pavn) Woodson. Therefore, a new combination, Mandevilla speciosa, is established, and M. fendleri is included in synonymy. A neotype is designated for Mitozus discolor Miers. 
23018490|Salvia aucheri Benth. (Lamiaceae) is a species endemic to Turkey, and the name is lectotypified herein. Two varieties were previously recognized, as S. aucheri var. aucheri and S. aucheri var. canescens Boiss. & Heldr.; the infraspecific taxa are recognized here as subspecies. During revisionary work on Turkish Salvia L., we determined that S. aucheri subsp. canescens (Boiss. & Heldr.) Celep, Kahraman & Doan differs from subspecies aucheri not only morphologically, but also geographically and phenologically, and both taxa are typically allopatric.
10.2307/3392040|Seven new species of Eleocharis are described based on study of material from the Venezuelan Guayana: Eleocharis alveolatoides, E. atrospiculata, E. ayacuchensis, E. eglerioides, E. liesneri, E. steyermarkii, and E. venezuelensis. Eleocharis squamigera is represented in the Venezuelan Guayana by a newly described subspecies, E. squamigera subsp. straminea, differing primarily in the pale color of the rhizome scales and glumes. Two new forms are also described, E. debilis forma anomala, differing from the typical form in having 3-branched styles and trigonous achenes mixed with the characteristic 2-branched styles and biconvex ones of this species, and E. geniculata forma brunnea, differing from typical E. geniculata in its brown achenes.
10.2307/3391466|The new combinations Lappula karelinii (Fischer & Meyer) R. Kamelin, Lindelofia stylosa (Karelin & Kirilow) Brand subsp. pterocarpa (Ruprecht) R. Kamelin, and Onosma setosa Ledebour subsp. transrhymnense (Klokov ex M. Popov) Kamelin are made, and the new name O. liui R. Kamelin & T. Popova is proposed.
10.2307/3391445|Nephthytis bintuluensis A. Hay, Bogner & P. C. Boyce is here first described from plants collected near Bintulu, Sarawak, East Malaysia. The genus was hitherto known only from western tropical Africa.
20406238|A new species of the Cape endemic genus Hermas L. is described. Hermas proterantha B. J. de Villiers is a very distinct new species endemic to Piquetberg Mountain in Western Cape province. It is the only deciduous Hermas species and has thinly textured, deeply lobed (pinnatipartite) leaves that wither in summer.
10.2307/3391828|Triniochloa talpensis from Mexico is described and illustrated. Its morphology and leaf anatomy are compared with those of T. laxa Hitchcock. /// Se describe e ilustra Triniochloa talpensis de Mxico. Se comparan caractersticas de morfologa y de anatoma foliar con aquellas de T. laxa Hitchcock.
10.2307/3392058|Among recent collections from Costa Rica were several undescribed species. Two new species of Pleurothyrium, P. guindonii and P. oblongum, are described, recent collections of poorly known species of that genus are listed, and a key to the Costa Rican species of Pleurothyrium is presented. These additions bring the number of Pleurothyrium species known from Costa Rica to eight. Two new species of Ocotea, O. rufescens and O. multiflora, are also described and their affinities are discussed, at least as far as known. Nectandra salvadorensis Lundell is transferred to Ocotea. A reexamination of type specimens has led to a different concept of Ocotea tonduzii Standley and O. pittieri (Mez) van der Werff. Most specimens formerly placed in O. pittieri are now included in the new species O. praetermissa. The correct name for specimens placed in O. tonduzii can only be determined after a study of the O. insularis complex.
20406281|Bouvardia borhidiana Lozada-Prez se describe e ilustra de Guerrero, Mxico. Esta nueva especie se caracteriza por sus ramas verdes y glabras, corola hipocraterimorfa y glabra por dentro y las ramas del estigma pubescentes. Se discute su relacin con B. laevis M. Martens & Galeotti. /// Bouvardia borhidiana Lozada-Prez is described and illustrated from Guerrero, Mexico. This new species is distinguished by green and glabrous branches, hypocrateriform corolla with a glabrous internal side, and by the pubescent branches of its stigma. Its relation with B. laevis M. Martens & Galeotti is discussed.
20406330|As part of a taxonomic revision of the genus Roegneria K. Koch (Poaceae, Triticeae), a neotype is designated for R. caucasica K. Koch, the type of the generic name, because the entire type collection of Koch's specimens in Berlin (B) was destroyed during World War II.
10.2307/3391702|The new species Palicourea jatunsachensis and P. plowmannii are similar vegetatively to P. subspicata, but can be separated by linear relatively long calyx lobes and well-developed inflorescence bracts, respectively.
20406235|A new species of alkali grass, Puccinellia banksiensis Consaul from Banks Island, Northwest Territories, in the Canadian Arctic, is described and illustrated. This diploid species is most similar to the Russian and Alaskan tetraploid P. hauptiana (Trinius ex V. I. Krecznetowicz) Kitagawa, from which it differs by having dense panicles with erect branches and palea keels with curly hairs in the proximal half; to the Siberian species P. neglecta (Tzvelev) Bubnova, which is larger with less dense inflorescences and wider leaves; and to the circumpolar hexaploid P. angustata (R. Br.) E. L. Rand & Redfield, from which it differs by having smaller spikelets and florets. It differs from other Puccinellia Parlatore species on Banks Island and the northern coast of Alaska by having lemmas shorter than 2.7 mm with scabrous apical margins and anthers shorter than 0.9 mm. Although morphology suggests a close relationship with P. angustata, P. hauptiana, and P. neglecta, genetic evidence suggests it is a distinct species. It is local and rare, and grows in low-elevation, Dryas L.--dominated tundra beside coastal lakes.
10.2307/3392168|Marsdenia carterae, a new species of Apocynaceae (Asclepiadoideae, Marsdenieae) from Baja California Sur, Mexico, is described and illustrated. This is the first North American species of Marsdenia with verticillate leaves and is also notable in lacking a developed corona and for its non-twining habit.
3393479|The genera Brachycarpaea, Cycloptychis, Schlechteria, Silicularia, and Thlaspeocarpa are united with Heliophila (Brassicaceae). Except for Brachycarpaea, the genera are treated as new synonyms of Heliophila. The characters previously used to distinguish these genera are critically evaluated. The retention of Brachycarpaea and Silicularia in Heliophila would not necessitate any nomenclatural novelties, but the transfer of species of the remaining three genera to Heliophila requires a new combination and four new names. The new combination H. namaquensis and the new names H. monosperma, H. maraisiana, H. hurkana, and H. suborbicularis are proposed.
20406139|Brasiliorchis R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali is here proposed to include the orchid species formerly recognized in the Maxillaria picta alliance, an orchid group mostly endemic to the Atlantic Rain Forest Biome, in south and southeastern Brazil. The new genus is supported by both morphological features and ongoing molecular studies. The new genus is easily diagnosed by its sulcate to ridged, bifoliate pseudobulbs and its long-lasting, campanulate, rewardless flowers. The pollinaria of these flowers are normally devoid of stipes. Formal diagnosis of the genus and 13 taxonomic combinations are presented: Brasiliorchis barbozae (Loefgren) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali, B. chrysantha (Barbosa Rodrigues) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali, B. consanguinea (Klotzsch) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali, B. gracilis (Loddiges) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali, B. heismanniana (Barbosa Rodrigues) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali, B. kautskyi (Pabst) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali, B. marginata (Lindley) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali, B. phoenicanthera (Barbosa Rodrigues) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali, B. picta (Hooker) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali, B. polyantha (Barbosa Rodrigues) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali, B. porphyrostele (Reichenbach f.) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali, B. schunkeana (Campacci & Kautsky) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali, and B. ubatubana (Hoehne) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali. Lectotypes are designated for B. barbozae, B. chrysantha, B. heismanniana, B. phoenicanthera, B. picta, and B. polyantha. A neotype is proposed for B. consanguinea. In addition, a key to distinguish Brasiliorchis from other sympatric bifoliate orchids within Brazilian Maxillariinae is presented. /// O gnero Brasiliorchis R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali,  proposto para conter aquelas espcies de orqudeas antes incluidas na Aliana Maxillaria picta; um agrupamento primariamente endmico do bioma Mata Atlntica, no Sul e Sudeste do Brasil. Este novo gnero  sustentado tanto por caracteres morfolgicos quanto por estudos de biologia molecular em andamento. O novo gnero  facilmente diagnosticado pelos seus pseudobulbos bifoliados, sulcados a canaliculados e pelas suas flores campanuladas, duradouras e sem recompensas florais. Os polinrios destas espcies normalmente carecem de estipes. Apresenta-se a diagnose formal do novo gnero, bem como treze novas combinaoes taxonmicas: Brasiliorchis barbozae (Loefgren) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali, B. chrysantha (Barbosa Rodrigues) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali, B. consanguinea (Klotzsch) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali, B. gracilis (Loddiges) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali, B. heismanniana (Barbosa Rodrigues) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali, B. kautskyi (Pabst) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali, B. marginata (Lindley) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali, B. phoenicanthera (Barbosa Rodrigues) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali, B. picta (Hooker) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali, B. polyantha (Barbosa Rodrigues) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali, B. porphyrostele (Reichenbach f.) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali, B. schunkeana (Campacci & Kautsky) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali e B. ubatubana (Hoehne) R. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali. So propostos lecttipos para B. barbozae, B. chrysantha, B. heismanniana, B. phoenicanthera, B. picta e B. polyantha. Prope-se um netipo para B. consanguinea. Alm disto apresenta-se uma chave dicotmica para separar Brasiliorchis das outras orqudeas Maxillariinae bifoliades brasileiras.
3393496|Two new species of Cymbopogon are described from China, C. liangshanensis and C. minor. Both belong to Cymbopogon series Proceri, previously mainly confined to Australia. A third species in this series, Cymbopogon quinhonensis from Vietnam, is transferred from Andropogon.
10.2307/3391996|Ten new combinations in the Flora of Sikkim are communicated.
10.2307/3391905|A neotype and epitype are selected for Dracontium dubium Kunth. Dracontium changuango G. S. Bunting is treated as a synonym of D. dubium.
3393464|A new species of Triaenophora Solereder, T. shennongjiaensis X. D. Li, Y. Y. Zan & J. Q. Li (Scrophulariaceae), is described and illustrated from Shennongjia National Natural Reserve, Hubei Province, China. The new species is related to T. rupestris (Hemsley) Solereder, from which it differs in having densely glandular leaves, dentate bract margins, and pale yellow petals that are retuse or rarely obtuse at their apices.
10.2307/3391475|The new combination Phlegmariurus dichotomus (Jacquin) W. H. Wagner is needed following recent revision of Lycopodium sensu lato, based on morphological and cytological characters.
20406010|The systematic diversity within the esparto grass has produced controversy since the first century AD regarding the varying quality of this natural product as textile material. Investigated herein is Stipa subg. Macrochloa (Kunth) Barrea, D. Rivera, Alcaraz & Obn. Two species, Stipa antiatlantica and S. tenacissima, as well as two subspecies within S. tenacissima are recognized. Stipa kralifii is newly synonymized with S. tenacissima subsp. gabesensis. A dichotomous key is presented for identification of the taxa. /// La diversidad sistemtica del esparto ha dado lugar a diversas controversias sobre la diferente calidad como material textil de este producto natural, desde el siglo I AD. Se investiga el gnero Stipa subgnero Macrochloa (Kunth) Barrea, D. Rivera, Alcaraz & Obn. Se reconocen 2 especies, Stipa antiatlantica y S. tenacissima, as como dos subspecies dentro de S. tenacissima. Se incluye Stipa kralifii nuevamente en sinonimia con S. tenacissima subsp. gabesensis. Se presenta una clave dicotmica para la identificacin de los taxones.
10.2307/3392105|Lepidium beckii, a shrubby new species from Depto. La Paz (Bolivia), is described and illustrated. Its relationship to L. philippianum and L. quitense is discussed.
20406189|Three subspecies of Rosa nutkana C. Presl and five of R. woodsii Lindley are recognized in western Canada and the United States, including four changes in combination and/or status: Rosa nutkana subsp. melina (Greene) W. H. Lewis & Ertter, R. woodsii subsp. arizonica (Rydberg) W. H. Lewis & Ertter, R. woodsii subsp. manca (Greene) W. H. Lewis & Ertter, and R. woodsii subsp. gratissima (Greene) W. H. Lewis & Ertter. Rosa nutkana subsp. melina and R. woodsii subsp. manca occur at high elevations of the southern Rocky Mountains and Colorado Plateau of Colorado and Utah with outlying populations in Arizona, Idaho, New Mexico, and Wyoming; R. woodsii subsp. arizonica is found at lower elevations of Arizona and the Colorado Plateau; and R. woodsii subsp. gratissima occurs in the mountains surrounding the Mojave Desert and southern Great Basin of California and Nevada, with its variety glabrata (Parish) D. Cole confined to the San Bernardino Mountains of California. Synonyms are provided for appropriate subspecies, 14 lectotypes and one neotype are designated here, and selected exsiccatae are given for newly recognized subspecies. The following names are lectotypified: Rosa bakeri Rydberg, nom. illeg., R. californica Chamisso & Schlechtendal var. ultramontana S. Watson, R. deserta Lunell, R. fendleri Crpin, R. macounii Greene, R. maximiliani Nees, R. megalantha G. N. Jones, R. neomexicana Cockerell, R. nutkana var. alta Suksdorf, R. nutkana var. hispida Fernald, R. nutkana var. pallida Suksdorf, R. rainierensis G. N. Jones, R. spaldingii Crpin ex Rydberg, and R. subnuda Lunell. One neotype is designated: Rosa woodsii Lindley.
10.2307/3392052|Carex porrecta is a relatively widespread but evidently rare species unique among New World representatives of Carex subg. Indocarex in having strongly outcurved perigynia with very long, spreading beaks and a conspicuous, thick rhizome. This species occurs in humid montane forests, often associated with ravines, rock outcrops, and steep slopes at about 1600-2600 m.
10.2307/3393580| An overview of the subspecies of Paullinia obovata in Peru is presented, recognizing five subspecies. One new subspecies, P. obovata subsp. flava Weckerle & Igersheim, is described. Paullinia brentberlinei is transferred to the rank of subspecies of P. obovata. Three varieties of P. obovata, i.e., var. obovata, var. polymorpha, var. subrotunda, are recognized at the subspecies level. All subspecies are illustrated, and their comparative morphological features are compared in a table. /// Se presenta una revisin de las subespecies de Paullinia obovata en Peru. Son reconocidas cinco subespecies. Se describe una nueva subespecie, P. obovata subsp. flava Weckerle & Igersheim. Paullinia brentberlinei es reducida a una subespecie de P. obovata. Tres variedades de P. obovata (var. obovata, var. polymorpha, var. subrotunda) son reconocidas como subespecies. Se provee una tabla resumen con los caracteres morfolgicos para la comparacin de los taxa, as como ilustraciones para cada uno de ellos. 
10.2307/3391489|A new species, Brongniartia zirandarensis (Fabaceae: Faboideae), from Guerrero, Mexico, is described and illustrated. Its affinities to B. mollicula Brandegee are discussed, and data are provided on habitat and abundance. /// Se describe y se ilustra una especie nueva, Brongniartia zirandarensis (Fabaceae: Faboideae), del estado de Guerrero, Mxico. Se discuten sus afinidades con B. mollicula Brandegee y se proporcionan datos de su hbitat y abundancia.
10.2307/3392050|A new genus from Venezuela, Tuberculocarpus, is described and illustrated, and the combination T. ruber is made. Thelechitonia and Complaya are placed in synonymy of the formerly unispecific Sphagneticola, and a lectotype is chosen for the generitype S. ulei and for Verbesina calendulacea. Sphagneticola includes cultivated Wedelia trilobata, and the combinations S. brachycarpa, S. calendulacea, S. gracilis, and S. trilobata are made. Wulffia is a taxonomic synonym of Tilesia, and combinations in Tilesia are proposed for the three species and one variety formerly placed in Wulffia: Tilesia baccata, T. macrocephala, T. rubens, and T. baccata var. discoidea. The basionym of the most widespread species of Tilesia (Coreopsis baccata) has previously been attributed to Linnaeus filius, but was published earlier by Linnaeus. Elaphandra moriana from French Guiana is described, and the combination Elaphandra lehmannii is made. Oyedaea wurdackii is described from Venezuela and is illustrated, and the combination Oyedaea tepuiana is proposed. The combination Verbesina ligulata is provided, and V. guianensis is lectotypified and is an earlier name for V. schomburgkii. Elaphandra sucrensis is reduced to synonymy of E. verbesinoides, E. lucidula is reduced to E. ulei, Oyedaea blakeana is reduced to O. scaberrima, and Wulffia trujilloi is reduced to Tilesia macrocephala.
3393445| A new species of Ceratolacis (C. pedunculatum, Podostemaceae) is illustrated and described. The new species is known from four locations in central Minas Gerais, Brazil. Ceratolacis pedunculatum is distinguished from the only other species of the genus based on the presence of a prominent peduncle and the oblique orientation of the ovary on the pedicel. /// Uma nova espcie de Ceratolacis (C. pedunculatum, Podostemaceae)  descrita e ilustrada. Esta espcie nova  conhecida de quatro localidades no centro de Minas Gerais, Brasil. Ceratolacis pedunculatum se distingue da outra espcie do gnero conhecida, pela presena de um pednculo proeminente e a orientao oblqua do ovario sobre o pedicelo. 
10.2307/3391999|Se describe Nanarepenta juxtlahuacensis, una nueva especie de Oaxaca, Mxico. Se discuten sus relaciones con la especie ms cercana, y su hbito y caracteres diagnsticos son illustrados. Esta nueva especie est cercanamente relacionada con N. guerrerensis Matuda, de la que se distingue, porque las inflorescencias pistiladas son mucho ms cortas que las hojas, las cpsulas oblongas y lisas, y los granos de polen son tectadoperforados, punteados. /// A new species, Nanarepenta juxtlahuacensis, from the state of Oaxaca, Mexico, is described. Its habit and diagnostic characters are illustrated, and its relationships are discussed. This species is closely related to N. guerrerensis. It is distinguished from that species by having pistillate inflorescences shorter than the leaves, oblong and smooth capsules, as well as by having tectate-perforate and punctuate pollen grains.
3393338|We describe and illustrate the new species Crotalaria mwangulangoi (Fabaceae, Faboideae) from the Udzungwa Mountains of south-central Tanzania and compare it with the morphologically similar species C. hemsleyi from the Nguru and Uluguru Mountains of eastern Tanzania.
10.2307/3393182|Tetraplasandra flynnii is described from Kaua'i, Hawaiian Islands. It resembles the more widespread T. kavaiensis, but is restricted to a single known population now comprising only three individuals growing in mesic to wet forest that is increasingly impacted by introduced goats and aggressive non-native plant species. Material has been propagated for ex situ conservation, but effective management will be required to ensure the continued survival of the wild population.
10.2307/3392077|Xylosma longipedicellata, a new species from the dry upland forests of Nicaragua and neighboring Honduras, is described, and its relationships to other similar Central American species are discussed.
10.2307/3392199|A new species, Cycas lindstromii, is described from Binh Thuan in southern Vietnam. It is allied to C. siamensis, but distinguished by its subterranean trunk, elongated megasporophyll, and shorter, keeled leaf. The new species is illustrated, and its distribution, ecology, and conservation status are discussed.
10.2307/3391422|A new name, Memecylon balakrishnanii, is proposed for a species of Memecylon described by Balakrishnan & Nair.
3393544|A new species of the genus Salvia L. (Lamiaceae) is described from the western slopes of Mount Lebanon characterized by a Mediterranean climate. Salvia fairuziana R. M. Haber & Semaan is distinguished by the following characters: perennial herb; hispid with dense tuberculate multiseptate trichomes emerging from wart-like turgid purple epidermal cells; leaves ovate-elliptic, cordate, shallowly lobed, verrucose; floral bracts discoidal, green with a white center and purple tips; verticillasters crowded; calyx 1.0-1.2 cm long, green, infundibular; corolla 2.4-2.7 cm long, lilac, squamulate, ventricose; staminal connectives dolabriform.
20406044|Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie del gnero Schwenckia (Solanaceae) encontrada en el Departamento del Caquet, Cordillera Oriental de Colombia, Schwenckia alvaroana Bentez. La misma se distingue del resto de las especies de la seccin Schwenckia por su hbito trepador y sus corolas de menor tamao. Tambin se proporciona una clave para separar las especies hasta ahora reconocidas de la seccin Schwenckia. A new species in Solanaceae from the Department of Caquet, Cordillera Oriental of Colombia, Schwenckia alvaroana Bentez, is described and illustrated. It is distinct from other species within section Schwenckia by its climbing habit and smaller corolla. Also a key for the currently recognized species of the members of section Schwenckia is provided.
10.2307/3393109| Se describe una nueva especie de Rhynchosia (Leguminosae) del occidente de Mxico, colectada en la Reserva de la Bisfera Chamela-Cuixmala, Jalisco, Mexico. Se trata de R. delicatula, la cual es cercana a R. difformis (Elliot) DC: de esta, R. delicatula se diferencia por la forma y pelosidad de sus fololos; pedicelos ms cortos; cliz ms corto que la corola; y el vexilo ms chico. /// A new species of Rhynchosia (Leguminosae) collected in the Chamela-Cuixmala Biosphere Reserve in the state of Jalisco, western Mexico, is described. Rhynchosia deliculata is similar to R. difformis but differs by the shape and pubescence of the leaflets, by the shorter pedicels, by the calyx shorter than the corolla, and by the smaller standard petal. 
40300927|The new variety Tripterospermum chi nense var. linearifolium X. F. Jin (Gentianaceae) is described from Zhejiang, eastern China, and distinguished from T. chinense (Migo) Harry Smith. Leaf characteristics of both varieties were statistically analyzed, and pollen grain and seed morphology was observed under SEM. SEM results showed that pollen and seed morphology did not differ between the new variety and the autonymic variety. According to the results of statistical analysis, T. chinense var. linearifolium differs mainly from the autonymic variety in having narrower leaves (3-9 mm vs. 11-43 mm) and solitary flowers (vs. two to five flowers).
20406116|Siphoneugena delicata Sobral & Proena (Myrtaceae), from the montane Atlantic forests of the Brazilian states of Esprito Santo and Minas Gerais, is described and illustrated. The new species is related to S. guilfoyleiana Proena, known until now only from the restinga vegetation in the state of So Paulo, and S. reitzii D. Legrand, from montane habitats from southern Brazil. It is distinguished from both by the shrubby habit, smaller leaves to 12 mm long with the midvein plane or sulcate adaxially, and clearly apiculate flower buds. Additionally, it is set apart from S. guilfoyleiana by the puberulous branches and deciduous bracteoles and from S. reitzii by the markedly rugose bark. /// Siphoneugena delicata Sobral & Proena (Myrtaceae), da floresta ombrfila altomontana dos estados de Esprito Santo e Minas Gerais,  descrita, ilustrada e comparada com S. guilfoyleiana Proena, conhecida somente para a restinga do estado de So Paulo, e S. reitzii D. Legrand, da floresta ombrfila montana do sul do Brasil. S. delicata se distingue de ambas pelo hbito arbustivo, folhas menores (at 12 mm de comprimento) com a nervura central sulcada ou plana na face adaxial e botes florais marcadamente apiculados. Alm disso, separa-se de S. guilfoyleiana pelos ramos pubrulos e bractolas decduas e de S. reitzii pelo crtex rugoso.
10.2307/3391457|Se describe una especie nueva de Hansteinia (Acanthaceae) solamente conocida del volcn del Tacan, Chiapas, Mxico, que se diferencia del resto de las especies mexicanas por tener inflorescencias espigadas. Su grano de polen es esferoidal, diporado, y con ornamentacin equinada que concuerda con la morfologa de los granos de polen del gnero. /// A new species of Hansteinia (Acanthaceae) is described from the Tacan volcano, Chiapas, Mexico. It differs from the other Mexican species of the genus by its spicate inflorescences. The pollen grains are spheroidal, diporate, and echinately sculptured, in agreement with the pollen morphology of the genus.
41811671|A new fern species, Polystichum loratum H. He & Li Bing Zhang (Dryopteridaceae), is described and illustrated from limestone cliffs in northern Guizhou Province, China. Polystichum loratum is most similar to P. yaanense Liang Zhang & Li Bing Zhang in having narrowly ovate to lanceolate abaxial rachis scales. The new species is distinguished by its lorate leaf lamina, the oblong to narrowly ovate microscales (broad-type) on abaxial pinna surfaces, and the exindusiate sori, while P. yaanense has lanceolate leaf lamina, subulate microscales (narrow-type) on abaxial pinnae, and indusiate sori. Polystichum loratum is considered to be Critically Endangered (CR), based on IUCN Red List criteria.
10.2307/3391558|Three subclass and 40 superordinal names now in current use, but not validly published, are validated.
10.2307/3393252|The circumscription of Casparya silletensis A. DC. ( = Begonia silhetensis (A. DC.) C. B. Clarke) is emended so as to accurately describe the type material of this species and exclude material of B. aborensis S. T. Dunn. Begonia silletensis subsp. mengyangensis, a taxon endemic to the Xishuangbanna region of Yunnan Province, China, is newly described and illustrated. Begonia silletensis subsp. mengyangensis differs from subspecies silletensis by its larger leaves (14-27 x 20-27 cm vs. 10-17 x 10-15 cm) and unequally ridged fruit. Begonia silletensis subsp. silletensis is reported new to Burma and Thailand. A key is provided to distinguish the two subspecies.
10.2307/3392037|Two new species of Endlicheria are described, illustrated, and discussed. Endlicheria canescens has hitherto been confused with Ocotea endlicheriopsis Mez, and Endlicheria chalisea was previously known only by the densely pubescent cupules of fruiting material.
10.2307/3391812|The new species Psychotria leitana C. M. Taylor is described, the combination Psychotria subspathulata (Mueller Argoviensis) C. M. Taylor is made based on Mapouria subspathulata Mueller Argoviensis, and the new names Psychotria ararum C. M. Taylor, for Palicourea glaziovii Standley, and Psychotria setulifera C. M. Taylor, for Palicourea hispidula Standley, are provided.
10.2307/3392115|Se describe e ilustra por primera vez a Furcraea niquivilensis, del estado de Chiapas, Mxico. Esta especie tiene afinidad con F. macdougallii pero difiere de ella por la forma de la hoja, la pancula piramidal, el tamao mayor de las flores y forma y tamao de los bulbilos. /// Furcraea niquivilensis from Chiapas, Mexico, is described and illustrated for the first time. It is related to F. macdougallii, from which it differs by the shape of the leaves, the pyramidal panicle, as well as by the flower size, and shape and size of the bulbils.
10.2307/3391794|A new milkweed, Asclepias jorgeana, from pine-oak forests of Chihuahua, Sonora, Durango, and Guanajuato, Mexico, is described and illustrated. It appears to be related to A. pringlei (Greenman) Woodson, which occurs mostly to the south and east of A. jorgeana; however, they occur sympatrically in Durango. The new species is distinguished from A. pringlei by attenuate corona hoods, erect, fusiform follicles, and comose seeds. Although the new species has been collected several times since 1946, specimens have remained unidentified or have been determined to be hybrids or an undescribed species.
10.2307/3391464|Euphorbia masirahensis, a new species from Masirah Island, Sultanate of Oman, is described. Its habitat and flowering and fruiting periods are given, and its distribution and endemicity are discussed. An illustration of the species and a distribution map are also provided.
23018450|Hechtia edulis I. Ramrez, Espejo & Lpez-Ferr. (Bromeliaceae) is described and illustrated from Copper Canyon National Park, Chihuahua, Mexico. The new entity is characterized by its caespitose, monocarpic habit, by its small rosettes, and by the similarity of its staminate and pistillate inflorescences in size, the simple panicles with the branching much shortened, the flowers sessile, the floral bracts scarious, and pistillate flowers with petals green and carnose. Se describe e ilustra Hechtia edulis I. Ramrez, Espejo & Lpez-Ferr. (Bromeliaceae) del Parque Nacional Barranca del Cobre, Chihuahua, Mxico. Esta nueva entidad se caracteriza por su hbito cespitoso, rosetas monocrpicas, de tamao pequeo y por la similitud de sus inflorescencias estaminadas y pistiladas, panculas simples con ramas muy cortas, flores ssiles, brcteas florales escariosas y flores pistiladas con ptalos verdes y carnosos.
20406308|Linaria iranica Hamdi & Assadi (Scrophulariaceae) is a new species from Kerman Province, Iran. It belongs to Linaria Miller sect. Versicolores (Bentham) Wettstein, and its closest relative is L. tenuis Sprengel. Linaria iranica differs from L. tenuis in the smaller corollas (7-8 mm vs. 12-17 mm), longer spurs relative to the remaining corolla, smaller capsules (3-3.2 mm vs. 3.5-6 mm), and the ornamentation of seed surfaces.
3393316| Se describe una nueva especie del gnero Eleocharis (Cyperaceae) para la flora de Venezuela; se presenta en una tabla la separacin de los caracteres con dos especies afines: E. schaffneri Boeckeler y E. intricata Kkenthal. /// A new species of the genus Eleocharis (Cyperaceae) is described for the Venezuelan flora. A table is presented with comparative characteristics for two related species: E. shaffneri Boeckeler and E. intricata Kkenthal. 
10.2307/3392997|Dahlia parvibracteata (Asteraceae, Coreopsideae), a new species from Guerrero, Mexico, is described and illustrated. It is distinguished by its numerous flowers on terminal or axillary stems, either borne singly on long peduncles or on short-branching naked stems held above the foliage, and by its narrowly spatulate to oblong-lanceolate outer involucral bracts. This species falls within the natural range for the genus, and is morphologically closest to D. moorei, although there are distinct differences. /// Se describe e ilustra Dahlia parvibracteata (Asteraceae, Coreopsideae), una especie nueva de Guerrero, Mxico. Se distingue por sus flores numerosas dispuestas en tallos terminales o axilares, ya sea solitarios en pednculos largos o en tallos desnudos cortamente ramificados y sostenidos por encima del follaje, y por sus brcteas involucrales externas angostamente espatuladas a oblongo-lanceoladas. Esta especie se encuentra dentro del rango natural del gnero y es morfolgicamente cercana a D. moorei, aunque existen diferencias marcadas.
10.2307/3393163|The new species Decaspermum struckoilicum N. Snow & Guymer is described from Queensland. It is distinguished from Decaspermum humile (G. Don) A. J. Scott in Australia by its narrower and more acute leaves, shorter petioles, and unlobed mature fruits. The new species lacks the "vertical false septum" that has been reported to occur in the middle of each locule between seeds in Decaspermum, and which has been used in part to diagnose Decaspermum from related genera. Instead, the three seeds that typically occur per locule in the mature fruit are completely surrounded by an encapsulating membrane. Typically, seeds within the membrane are weakly fused and lack any intervening tissue between them. A key is provided to separate the new species from Decaspermum humile.
40300890|The traditional circumscription of the genus Stonesia G. Taylor (Podostemaceae, Podostemoideae) includes three species restricted to western tropical Africa. Here, a new species, 5. ghoguei E. Pfeifer & Rutishauser, is described, which represents the first Cameroonian member of the genus. There are another three Stonesia species restricted to western tropical Africa (Guinea and Sierra Leone). The genus Stonesia is characterized by capsule valves with five or seven ribs each, with the ribs nearest the sutures shorter and not reaching the ends of valves. This unique pattern is shared with the two Madagascan genera Endocaulos C. Cusset and Paleodicraeia C. Cusset. Molecular (matK) data indicate that this capsule pattern is homoplastic, occurring in Madagascar and (with Stonesia) in tropical Africa. Various characters of Stonesia (including 5. ghoguei) are also found in other African podostemoids. These include flower buds inverted in the sac-like spathella; crustose roots or broad ribbons with exogenous root lobes (daughter roots); stems usually simple (rarely branched), up to 10(-40) cm long; flowers arising primarily from endogenous buds inside the stem cortex in 5. ghoguei and S. fascicularis G. Taylor; and leaves repeatedly forked into narrow segments, with epiphyllous flowers arising from the clefts of these forks in S. ghoguei and S. heterospathella G. Taylor. Unlike the western African Stonesia species, 5. ghoguei has pollen mainly released in monads (not only dyads), one stamen per flower with two lateral tepals (not two stamens with three tepals), and unilocular ovaries (not bilocular ones).
10.2307/3393124|Anthurium obpyriforme from Loja province in southern Ecuador is described as new. This species has been confused with A. oxybelium Schott but shows considerable morphological and ecological differences. Anthurium oxybelium is introduced as the oldest name of a widespread upland species, and its relevant synonymy is included. A key is provided to distinguish Anthurium obpyriforme from the latter and other related high-altitude species of Anthurium sect. Belolonchium in Ecuador.
10.2307/3391800|Changes in taxonomic rank are proposed for two North American Rhynchospora (Cyperaceae) and for two Xyris (Xyridaceae): Rhynchospora recognita (Gale) Kral, Rhynchospora harveyi W. Boott var. culixa (Gale) Kral, Xyris laxifolia Martius var. iridifolia (Chapman) Kral, and Xyris stricta Chapman var. obscura Kral. The morphologic basis for such changes is given.
43288943|A new species of Holcus L. (Poaceae), endemic to the island of Madeira (Portugal), is here described as H. pintodasilvae M. Seq. & Castrov. This new species is morphologically closely related to the Macaronesian endemics H. rigidus Hchst, ex Hchst. (Azores Archipelago) and H. mollis L. subsp. hierrensL Stierst. (El Hierro Island, in the Canary Islands) but differs by having the culm nodes light brown, the leaves with a glabrous sheath and subspreading lamina attenuated to an acuminate apex, the glumes blunt, shiny, glabrous (except in the minutely scabrous veins), the upper glume with proximal lateral veins, and the lemma of the upper floret with an awn ca. 4 mm, twice as long as the lemma. Chromosome counts in H. pintodasilvae are tetraploid (2n = 28). Morphology, ecology, biogeography, and conservation issues are discussed and related to other Macaronesian Holcus taxa. Holcus pintodasilvae was found as only three populations (totaling less than 20 individuals), and its IUCN conservation status is Critically Endangered (CR). A new specific status is proposed for H. mollis subsp. hierrensL, as H. hierrensL (Stierst.) Stierst. & M. Seq., based on its chromosome number and morphological identity. Descreve-se urna nova especie, Holcus pintodasilvae M. Seq. & Castrov., pertencente ao gnero Holcus L. (Poaceae), endmica da Ilha da Madeira (Portugal). Morfologicamente prxima dos endemismos macaronsicos H. rigidus Hchst, ex Hchst. (Arquiplago dos Acores) e H. mollL L. subsp. hierrensL Stierst. (Ilha de Hierro, Arquiplago das Canarias) diferencia-se por possuir: nos de coloraao castanha-clara; folhas com bainhas glabras e lminas subpatentes atenuadas num pice acuminado; glumas brilhantes, mticas e glabras (excepto as nervuras que se apresentam escabrisculas), gluma superior com as nervuras laterais proximais; lema da flor superior com arista ca. 4 mm (duas vezes o complimento da lema). Incluem-se ainda resultados da contagem de cromossomas de H. pintosilvae (2n = 28). Discutem-se, e relacionam-se com outros taxa Macaronsicos do gnero Holcus, aspectos relativos  morfologia, ecologia, biogeografia e conservaao. Holcus pintodasilvae foi encontrado em apenas tres populaes (num total de menos de 20 individuos), sendo o seu estado de conservaao IUCN est criticamente ameaado (CR). Propoe-se ainda a combinaao H. hierrensis (Stierst.) Stierst. & M. Seq. baseada na sua identidade morfologica e numero cromossomtico.
20406154|The name Strobilanthes sarcorrhiza (C. Ling) C. Z. Zheng (Acanthaceae) was not validly published in 1993 because the reference to the basionym was not cited fully. The name is validated here and represents a new combination referred from Championella Bremekamp. The taxon is similar to S. oligantha Miquel, but it differs in its rhizome thickened (vs. not thickened), petioles 0-0.3 cm (vs. 3-4 cm), leaf blades lanceolate to oblonglanceolate (vs. broad-ovate to elliptic), lateral veins 7 to 9 (vs. 3 to 6), and spikes 2-4(-5) cm (vs. ca. 1 cm).
10.2307/3391983|To provide a valid name for the floristic checklist of the Ituri Forest (Democratic Republic of Congo), a new combination is made: Tarenna gilletii (De Wildeman & T. Durand) N. Hall ex Gereau (Rubiaceae).
10.2307/3392039|A new species, Passiflora trialata (Passifloraceae: subg. Passiflora), from French Guiana, South America, is described and illustrated from living cultivated material. Its affinities to the P. quadrangularis L. species complex are discussed.
10.2307/3393169|Arisaema danzhuense T. S. Yi & H. Li (sect. Trisecta) is described as a new species from the Gaoligong Mountains, northwestern Yunnan, China. It is closely related to A. propinquum Schott but differs in having a greenish spathe with white stripes and a round apex with an acumen 5 mm long, a greenish petiole and peduncle densely verruculose with whitish spinules, and the terminal leaflet with an acute apex.
3393401| Three new species of Schefflera from the Espinhao Range in Minas Gerais, Brazil, are described and illustrated: Schefflera botumirimensis Fiaschi & Pirani resembles S. glaziovii (Taubert) Frodin & Fiaschi, but differs by its elongated inflorescence and leaflet morphology. Schefflera fruticosa Fiaschi & Pirani appears to be related to S. vinosa (Chamisso & Schlechtendal) Frodin & Fiaschi, but can be distinguished by its reduced inflorescence with up to five partial inflorescences at each primary branch. Schefflera villosissima Fiaschi & Pirani is similar to S. macrocarpa (Chamisso & Schlechtendal) Frodin, but differs by its more dense indumentum and the flowers grouped in heads. /// Trs espcies novas de Schefflera da Cadeia do Espinhao em Minas Gerais, Brasil, so descritas e ilustradas: Schefflera botumirimensis Fiaschi & Pirani assemelha-se a S. glaziovii (Taubert) Frodin & Fiaschi, no entanto difere desta pela inflorescncia alongada e a morfologia dos fololos. Schefflera fruticosa Fiaschi & Pirani parece relacionada a S. vinosa (Chamisso & Schlechtendal) Frodin & Fiaschi, mas pode ser distinta pelas inflorescncias reduzidas com at 5 inflorescncias parciais por ramo primrio. Schefflera villosissima Fiaschi & Pirani assemelha-se a S. macrocarpa (Chamisso & Schlechtendal) Frodin, diferindo pelo indumento mais denso e as flores agrupadas em captulos. 
40300933|Two new Malagasy species of Dombeya Cavanilles subgen. Xeropetalum (Delile) K. Schumann (Malvaceae) are described. Dombeya asymmetrica Applequist is native to Mananara-Nord in northeastern Madagascar, and D. rienanensis Applequist to the Matatana River basin. Dombeya rienanensis is placed within subseries Trohy Arnes. Dombeya asymmetrica is tentatively placed within subseries Repandae Arnes; the species is distinguished by its long, narrow lanceolate leaves with asymmetrical apices. /// Deux nouvelles espces malgaches de Dombeya Cavanilles subgen. Xeropetalum (Delile) K. Schumann (Malvaceae) sont dcrites. Dombeya asymmetrica Applequist est originaire de la rgion de Mananara-Nord au nord-est de Madagascar, et D. rienanensis Applequist du bassin du Matatana. Dombeya rienanensis est classe en subseries Trohy Arnes. Dombeya asymmetrica est classe provisoirement en subseries Repandae Arnes; l'espce est caractrise par ses feuilles longues, troitement lancolees, avec un apex asymtrique.
27765209|Ruellia saccata Schmidt-Lebuhn & E. Tripp, a new species of Acanthaceae from Beni, Bolivia, with a highly distinctive corolla morphology, is described as new to science. The novelty resembles and is related to R. brevifolia (Pohl) C. Ezcurra, but differs in the presence of a pronounced corolla pouch, a longer corolla with a narrower orifice, and a spreading to procumbent habit. Its differences from and similarities to other species in the genus are also discussed, and an updated key to the red-flowered Bolivian species of Ruellia L. is presented. Ruellia saccata Schmidt-Lebuhn & E. Tripp, una nueva especie de Acanthaceae de Beni, Bolivia, que tiene una corola morfolgicamente muy distintiva, es descrita como nueva para la ciencia. La nueva especie se asemeja y est relacionada a R. brevifolia (Pohl) C. Ezcurra, pero se distingue por tener una corola ms larga con un orificio ms estrecho y una bolsa pronunciada en la misma, ascomo por presentar un hbito extendido y procumbente. Las diferencias y semejanzas de la nueva especie a otras en el gnero tambin son discutidas, y una clave actualizada para las especies bolivianas de Ruellia L. de flores rojas es presentada.
41811668|As part of the taxonomic treatment of Eriotheca Schott & Endl. in Brazil (Bombacoideae, Malvaceae), a lectotype is designated for Bombax crenulatum K. Schum. [= E. gracilipes (K. Schum.) A. Robyns], and an epitype is selected for E. globosa (Aubl.) A. Robyns. The change of status is proposed for two names in Eriotheca. Eriotheca candolleana (K. Schum.) A. Robyns var. longipes A. Robyns is recognized at the species level as E. longipes (A. Robyns) M. C. Duarte & G. L. Esteves; E. macrophylla (K. Schum.) A. Robyns subsp. sclerophylla (Ducke) A. Robyns is also recognized at species rank as E. sclerophylla (Ducke) M. C. Duarte & G. L. Esteves. Durante o estudo taxonmico de Eriotheca Schott ex Endl. no Brasil (Bombacoideae, Malvaceae), verifcou-se que mudanas eram necessrias. So designados um lecttipo para Bombax crenulatum K. Schum. [= E. gracilipes (K. Schum.) A. Robyns] e um eptipo para E. globosa (Aubl.) A. Robyns. Duas mudanas de status so propostas: E. candolleana (K. Schum.) A. Robyns var. longipes A. Robyns para E. longipes (A. Robyns) M. C. Duarte & G. L. Esteves e E. macrophylla (K. Schum.) A. Robyns subsp. sclerophylla (Ducke) A. Robyns para E. sclerophylla (Ducke) M. C. Duarte & G. L. Esteves.
10.2307/3391392|Three new series in Lepanthes sect. Lepanthes are described, and sixteen new species of Lepanthes are described from Ecuador.
10.2307/3391501|A new hybrid between two species of the endemic Hawaiian genus Adenophorus is described. On morphological grounds it appears to be a hybrid between A. hymenophylloides and A. tripinnatifidus. That hypothesis is supported by preliminary isozyme data, which also demonstrate that different individuals were produced by separate hybridization events. The irregular size and shape of spores and lack of complete pairing of meiotic chromosomes indicate that the hybrid is infertile.
10.2307/3393114|A new species of Diplopanax, D. vietnamensis (Nyssaceae, Cornaceae s.l.), was discovered in the mountains of southern Vietnam. It differs from the single known species, Diplopanax stachyanthus, by short, simple, densely pubescent inflorescences and large yellow-white flowers with five prominent bosses on the flower disc. This genus (with two species, D. stachyanthus and D. vietnamensis) is now regarded as congeneric with Mastixicarpum, representatives of which were an integral component of the Mastixia-like paratropical broad-leaved evergreen vegetation that covered much of the Northern Hemisphere from the uppermost Cretaceous to the late Miocene, about 65 to 7 million years ago.
23018482|A revision of the taxa belonging to the Genista ephedroides group (Fabaceae, Cytiseae) occurring in the Tyrrhenian area is presented. The study, carried out on the basis of the literature, herbarium material, and field and karyological investigations, allows the recognition of 13 taxa. Eight are already known: G. cilentina Vals., G. demarcoi Brullo, Scelsi & Siracusa, G. dorycnifolia Font Quer, G. ephedroides DC., G. gasparrinii (Guss.) C. Presl, G. numidica Spach, G. tyrrhena Vals., and G. valsecchiae Brullo & De Marco, and five are new to science. Genista bocchierii Bacch., Brullo & Feoli Chiapella, G. insularis Bacch., Brullo & Feoli Chiapella, G. insularis subsp. fodinae Bacch., Brullo & Feoli Chiapella, and G. ovina Bacch., Brullo & Feoli Chiapella are described from Sardinia, Italy, while G. tyrrhena subsp. pontiana Brullo & De Marco is described from the Pontine Archipelago of Latium, Italy. Karyologically, most of the taxa are characterized by the somatic number 2n = 48 (G. bocchierii, G. cilentina, G. demarcoi, G. dorycnifolia, G. gasparrinii, G. tyrrhena subsp. tyrrhena, G. ephedroides, G. valsecchiae, G. insularis), with accessory chromosomes occasionally yielding higher counts. In addition to 2n = 48, the new report of 2n = 44 is noted for the new species G. ovina. A new count of 2n = 48 is reported for G. tyrrhena subsp. tyrrhena, whereas higher counts (2n = 48 + 0 2B, 72, 96) are reported for the new subspecies G. tyrrhena subsp. pontiana. For each examined taxon, notes are given on the nomenclature, karyology, ecology, and chorology, while a detailed iconography is lacking only for G. numidica and G. dorycnifolia. An analytical key for the G. ephedroides group is presented. Lectotypes are designated for G. numidica and Spartium gymnopterum Viv.
3393551|Described and illustrated are the new species: Psychotria calidicola C. M. Taylor, found in Costa Rica and Panama and previously confused with P. eurycarpa Standley; P. chocoana C. M. Taylor, found in northwestern Colombia; P. gaitalensis C. M. Taylor of central Panama, previously confused with P. simiarum Standley; P. osaensis C. M. Taylor of southern Costa Rica, previously confused with P. deflexa DC.; P. paradichroa C. M. Taylor of Panama, previously confused with P. dichroa (Standley) C. M. Taylor; Psychotria sanblasensis C. M. Taylor of eastern Panama, previously confused with P. croceovenosa Dwyer; P. sinuata C. M. Taylor of northwestern South America, similar to P. angustiflora K. Krause and distinguished by its usually sinuate to scalloped leaf margins; and P. soejartoi C. M. Taylor of northwestern South America, previously confused with P. stenostachya Standley. Also described and illustrated is a new subspecies, P. simiarum subsp. chiapensis of central and southern Mexico, which is allopatric with subspecies simiarum of coastal Veracruz, Mexico, to Panama. The name P. buchtienii (H. Winkler) Standley applies to a commonly collected species found from southern Mexico through Bolivia, for which a detailed description is presented; P. buchtienii has previously been confused with P. officinalis (Aublet) Sandwith. All of these species belong to Psychotria subg. Heteropsychotria (Rubiaceae, tribe Psychotrieae).
40300945|A new name, Aristolochia wuana Zhen W. Liu & Y. F. Deng, is proposed to replace the later homonym Aristolochia macrocarpa C. Y. Wu & S. K. Wu ex D. D. Tao, not A. macrocarpa Duchartre. The species may be closely related to A. griffithii Hooker f. & Thomson ex Duchartre but differs in its retuse or rounded leaf apex (vs. acute or shortly acuminate), oblong capsule (vs. narrowly cylindrical), and the smooth upper surface of the seeds (vs. rugose).
10.2307/3392259|The Mexican taxon Pinus apulcensis Lindley is lectotypified with an ovuliferous cone found among carpological material in the herbarium of the Natural History Museum in Vienna (W), which was sent to Endlicher by Lindley. This cone confirms treatments of that name in publications on Mexican pines up to 1945-1948, when Martnez interpreted it in a different sense, using a specimen he had received from the putative type locality. The resulting confusion has been corrected, and a revised synonymy of Lindley's taxon is presented.
40856280|Astragalus minimus Vogel (Leguminosae) is endemic to the Andean region of South America, in Peru, Bolivia, Chile, and northwestern Argentina. This taxon belongs to a pulvinate species complex in the genus Astragalus L. (Leguminosae, Galegeae) from high mountain puna vegetation, between 4000 and 4500 m in the Neotropics. The A. minimus complex is newly delimited, in particular with information for the fruit, which was not described in Vogel's 1843 protologue. This new information allows the identification of A. tacorensis Gmez-Sosa as a species new to science; both taxa are morphologically described and illustrated. Astragalus minimus Vogel (Leguminosae) es endmica de la regin andina de Amrica del Sur, en Per, Bolivia, Chile y noroeste de Argentina. Este taxon pertenece a un grupo o complejo de especies pulvinadas del gnero Astragalus L. (Leguminosae, Galegeae) de alta montaa de los Andes en vegetacin de puna, entre 4000 y 4500 m en el Neotropico. El complejo de A. minimus es nuevamente delimitado e incluye informacin, particularmente de fruto del ejemplar tipo, no descrito previamente en el protologo de Vogel (1843). Esta nueva informacin permite la identificacin de A. tacorensis Gmez-Sosa como una nueva especie para la ciencia; ambos taxa son morfolgicamente descriptos e ilustrados.
10.2307/3391566|Revisional studies in Croton to achieve a more nearly phylogenetic classification necessitate a number of nomenclatural changes. The genera Crotonopsis and Eremocarpus are reduced to sections of Croton, and the new names Croton michauxii and C. willdenowii are proposed for the two species of Croton sect. Crotonopsis. For Croton sect. Julocroton, the 25 species accepted are enumerated, including 19 new names or new combinations.
10.2307/3391533|A monographic study of sections Pentadenia and Stygnanthe of Columnea (Gesneriaceae) has revealed four species new to science and two new combinations. These species are described here and include C. atahualpae and C. hypocyrtantha of section Pentadenia, and C. manabiana, C. suffruticosa, C. ultraviolacea, and C. xiphoidea of section Stygnanthe.
10.2307/3391486|Lagenocarpus amazonicus (Cyperaceae), from Amazonas, Venezuela, is described and illustrated. It differs most notably from other species of section Junciformes in its strongly pubescent rhizome sheaths and connate stamen filaments.
10.2307/3393132|Seven species in four sections of Carex are described as new from North America: C. acidicola Naczi, C. calcifugens Naczi, C. paeninsulae Naczi, E. L. Bridges & Orzell, and C. thornei Naczi (all sect. Griseae); C. kraliana Naczi & Bryson (sect. Laxiflorae); C. gholsonii Naczi & Cochrane (sect. Granulares); and C. infirminervia Naczi (sect. Deweyanae). Carex acidicola, C. calcifugens, C. paeninsulae, and C. thornei, all members of the C. oligocarpa complex, have distichous perigynia and purple-red shoot bases. Carex acidicola, from a few sites in Alabama and Georgia, is distinctive in having the bases of the proximal bract blades whitish. Carex calcifugens occurs in a few populations in Florida, Georgia, North Carolina, and South Carolina. It is characterized by having the purple-red coloration at the plant base less extensive than in other members of the C. oligocarpa complex, the vegetative shoots exceeding the reproductive ones, and by bearing the proximal-most spikes at the bases of the shoots. Carex paeninsulae is restricted to a few sites in Florida. It is unique in the C. oligocarpa complex in having relatively long rhizomes. Carex thornei occurs in a few sites in Alabama, Florida, and Georgia. It has short bract blades and terminal spikes with long peduncles. Carex kraliana is widespread and frequent throughout most of the southeastern United States. It is distinctive in its lanceolate or narrowly lanceolate, wide bract blades. Carex gholsonii occurs in Alabama, Florida, Georgia, North Carolina, and South Carolina. It is rare in all portions of its range except for parts of Florida. It is distinctive in being loosely caespitose, having short ligules, short bract blades, long and wide terminal spikes, and long perigynia. The chromosome number of C. gholsonii, determined from two populations in Florida, is 16 II + 1 IV. Carex infirminervia is widespread but infrequent throughout much of the western United States and western Canada. It is unique in its combination of papillose culms, long ligules, perigynium beaks occupying a high percentage of the perigynium length, and toothless or short-toothed perigynium apices. The new combination C. digitalis var. floridana (L. H. Bailey) Naczi & Bryson (Carex sect. Careyanae) is proposed to replace C. digitalis var. asymmetrica Fernald because of the priority of Bailey's epithet.
10.2307/3391785|Phylogenetic studies based on morphological data show that Farringtonia, a monotypic genus originally placed in the Microlicieae but recently assigned to the Melastomeae, forms part of a small clade nested within the genus Siphanthera. Because these genera form a monophyletic group, Farringtonia and Siphanthera are merged and the new combination, Siphanthera fasciculata, is proposed.
10.2307/3392165|En la presente nota dos de las tres variedades no tpicas de la especie Gochnatia paniculata: G. paniculata var. lanuginosa y G. paniculata var. polycephala son consideradas sinnimos de G. paniculata. Gochnatia paniculata var. densicephala es elevada a la categora de especie; la nueva combinacin propuesta es: Gochnatia densicephala (Cabrera) Sancho. /// Two non-typical varieties, G. paniculata var. lanuginosa and G. paniculata var. polycephala, are sunk back into the synonymy of G. paniculata, which as recognized here includes no infraspecific taxa. Gochnatia paniculata var. densicephala is raised to the rank of species; the new combination proposed is: Gochnatia densicephala (Cabrera) Sancho.
20406016|In preparing the treatment of the Elaeocarpaceae for the Flora of China, lectotypification is indicated for Elaeocarpus decipiens Hemsley ex Forbes & Hemsley and further nomenclatural change is required regarding a related taxon from Taiwan. The name Elaeocarpus lanyuensis C. E. Chang is invalid because the type was not indicated in the protologue, and the combination E. sylvestris var. lanyuensis (C. E. Chang) C. E. Chang is therefore illegitimate. Elaeocarpus decipiens Hemsley ex Forbes & Hemsley var. changii Y. Tang is published as a new variety, replacing these earlier names.
20406225|Se describe e ilustra una especie nueva, Meriania aurata C. Ulloa, D. Fernndez & D. A. Neill (Melastomataceae) del Parque Nacional Llanganates, Ecuador. Se parece a M. hernandoi L. Uribe; ambas especies tienen hojas de gran tamao con la base de la lmina auriculada y con un escudo en la insercin del pecolo, la inflorescencia robusta, el cliz amarillo, los ptalos anaranjados y las tecas moradas, pero la especie nueva se distingue por tener dientes calicinos externos conspicuos y coriceos, aurculas conspicuas y el escudo slo adaxial. /// Meriania aurata C. Ulloa, D. Fernndez & D. A. Neill (Melastomataceae) from the Llangantes National Park, Ecuador, is described and illustrated. It resembles M. hernandoi L. Uribe; both species have large leaves with auriculate base and a scutum at the petiole insertion, a robust inflorescence, yellow calyx, orange petals, and purple thecae, but the new species is distinguished by the conspicuous coriaceous external calyx teeth, conspicuous auricles, and scutum present only adaxially.
10.2307/3393154|Review of specimens newly collected for one of the International Cooperative Biodiversity Groups led to the recognition of three new species closely related to Cordia trachyphylla Martius, with which some specimens had previously been confused. All three are members of a group of species within Cordia sect. Myxa that are characterized by having a costate calyx. Three new species within this group are described, Cordia hatschbachii, C. kingstoniana, and C. koemarae, and a key is provided to assist in separation of the neotropical species of Cordia sect. Myxa with costate calyces.
10.2307/3392164|Three new combinations, one in Abarema and two in Albizia (tribe Ingeae of the Mimosaceae), are proposed based on the study of fertile material from Central and South America. Two of these are necessary for the completion of the Mimosaceae treatment for Flora de Nicaragua.
10.2307/3391978|Nasturtium, which is often reduced to synonymy of Rorippa, is recognized as a distinct genus of five species. It is more closely related to Cardamine than to Rorippa, and its distinguishing characters from these genera are given. The new combination N. floridanum is proposed, and a key to the species is provided.
27765240|Although Appunia Hook. f. has been synonymized by some recent authors with Morinda L., it is here provisionally recognized as a Neotropical genus, with the new species A. megalantha C. M. Taylor & Lorence found in wet lowland forests of northwestern Colombia, northern Peru, and perhaps Ecuador and easily separated from other species of Appunia by its climbing habit and relatively large corollas with six lobes. Two new species of Coutarea Aubl. with actinomorphic corollas expand its known diversity in seasonal and dry inter-Andean valleys, with C. coutaportloides C. M. Taylor of southwestern Ecuador and C. fuchsioides C. M. Taylor of northeastern Peru both similar to C. andrei Standl. A second species of Patima Aubl., P. minor C. M. Taylor (Hamelieae) from Guyana, doubles the number of species known and expands the morphological variation in the genus to include 4-merous flowers. A fourth species of Rosenbergiodendron Fagerl., R. reflexum C. M. Taylor & Lorence from Peru, has subglobose fruits and relatively large corollas, ca. 34.5 cm long.
3393480|A new species of Tripogon from western China (Sichuan Province). T. debilis L. B. Cai. is described and illustrated. This species is similar to both T. chinensis (Franchet) Hackel and T. sichuanicus S. M. Phillips & S. L. Chen, but distinguished from these two species by its pendent spikes, relatively long glumes and lemma awns, denticulate upper glumes, and its paleas strikingly shorter than the lemmas.
23259418|The new name Impatiens ecornuta Gerry Moore, Zika & Rushworth (Balsaminaceae) is proposed for the species of western North America currently recognized as I. ecalcarata Blank. The latter name is an illegitimate later homonym of I. ecalcarata Collett & Hemsl.
10.2307/3393201|Three new species and three infraspecific taxa of Murdannia are described from Sri Lanka. Murdannia dimorphoides Faden, with subsp. dimorphoides and subsp. perennis Faden, and Murdannia audreyae Faden are endemic to Sri Lanka. Murdannia striatipetala Faden also occurs in southern India. The new variety, Murdannia spirata var. parviflora Faden, is recognized as indigenous in Sri Lanka and naturalized in the southern United States (Florida). Murdannia vaginata var. glabrisepala Faden is described from Sri Lanka, but whether it occurs elsewhere is not firmly established.
10.2307/3392086|Taxonomic studies of Moraceae and Cecropiaceae of Central America and the Andean region led to establishment of the following new taxa and combinations in Moraceae: Brosimum multinervium C. C. Berg, Ficus carchiana C. C. Berg, F. cotinifolia Kunth var. hondurensis (Standley & L. O. Williams) C. C. Berg, F. osensis C. C. Berg, F. rieberiana C. C. Berg, Maquira guianensis Aublet subsp. costaricana (Standley) C. C. Berg, Naucleopsis capirensis C. C. Berg, N. herrerensis C. C. Berg, N. humilis C. C. Berg, N. naga Pittier subsp. meridionalis C. C. Berg, N. straminea C. C. Berg, N. ulei (Warburg) Ducke subsp. puberula C. C. Berg, N. velutina C. C. Berg, Pseudolmedia glabrata (Liebmann) C. C. Berg, Sorocea jaramilloi C. C. Berg, S. pubivena Hemsley subsp. oligotricha (Akkermans & C. C. Berg) C. C. Berg, S. pubivena Hemsley subsp. hirtella (Mildbraed) C. C. Berg, S. ruminata C. C. Berg, S. sprucei (Baillon) Macbride subsp. subumbellata C. C. Berg; and in Cecropiaceae: Cecropia annulata C. C. Berg & P. Franco, C. heterochroma C. C. Berg & P. Franco, C. puberula C. C. Berg & P. Franco, C. tacuna C. C. Berg & P. Franco, Coussapoa david-smithii C. C. Berg, and C. villosa Poeppig & Endlicher subsp. polycephala C. C. Berg. For Ficus intramarginalis (Liebmann) Miquel a lectotype is designated.
10.2307/3392948| Thamnobryum liesneri differs from all other species of Thamnobryum in its ligulate to lingulate secondary stem and branch leaves that have exceptionally broad (to 160 m wide and a third or more of the leaf base width), strongly forked and spurred, subpercurrent costae. It differs from all species of Porotrichum and Porothamnium in having leaves with very broad costae and short upper cells. A key to the three species of Thamnobryum in the Neotropics is given. 
10.2307/3392272|A lectotype of Kengyilia mutica (Keng ex Keng & S. L. Chen) J. L. Yang, Yen & Baum is here designated based on an illustration of the holotype; the latter has been lost. A more complete description than the original, which was based on a single and incomplete specimen, is provided.
20406034|Schumannianthus monophyllus Suksathan, Borchsenius & A. D. Poulsen, a new species of Marantaceae is described and illustrated. It differs from its closest relative S. dichotomus (Roxburgh) Gagnepain in having acaulescent vegetative shoots and shortly caulescent, unbranched fertile shoots (vs. with richly branched aerial stems), each shoot with only a single leaf, and in having a loosely capitate, branched inflorescence (vs. narrowly spiciform and usually unbranched in S. dichotomus).
10.2307/3391551|As treated for the forthcoming revision of the Jepson Manual of the Flowering Plants of California, there are 14 species of Lessingia Cham, in California. Benitoa Keck and Corethrogyne DC. are considered to be congeneric with Lessingia.
20406187|An evaluation of Asian Brotherella Loeske ex M. Fleischer reveals that a new combination in the genus Heterophyllium (Schimper) Kindberg is necessary to replace B. amblystega (Mitten) Brotherus for its noticeably dimorphic stem and branch leaves, strongly serrate leaf apices, differentiated alar cells in an excavate group, erect and symmetric capsules, and strongly papillose spores. Heterophyllium amblystegum (Mitten) Y. Jia, S. He & Crosby is here validated and lectotypified along with a full description and a key to the Himalayan species of Heterophyllium.
10.2307/3393373|New rank is proposed for Epipactis humilior (Tang & Wang) S. C. Chen & G. Zhu and E. helleborine (L.) Crantz var. tangutica (Schlechter) S. C. Chen & G. Zhu. Epipactis humilior was formerly treated as a variety of E. mairei Schlechter, but distinctly differs from the latter by having a slender, creeping, elongated rhizome, ovate-lanceolate or lanceolate leaves 2-3 cm wide and scarcely or slightly scabrous adaxially. Epipactis helleborine var. tangutica is characterized by possessing on the epichile two much larger fleshy calli rather than small semiorbicular warty lamellae seen in E. helleborine.
10.2307/3391897|A new name in Peucedanum, a new variety of Ostericum scaberulum, and four new combinations in Meeboldia, Hydrocotyle, and Oenanthe are proposed. They are: Peucedanum franchetii C. Y. Wu & Pu, Ostericum scaberulum (Franchet) Yuan & Shan var. longiinvolucellatum C. Y. Wu & Pu, Meeboldia yunnanensis (H. Wolff) Constance & Pu, Hydrocotyle burmanica Kurz subsp. craibii (H. Eichler) C. Y. Wu & Pu, Oenanthe javanica (Blume) DC. subsp. rosthornii (Diels) Pu, and Oenanthe thomsonii C. B. Clarke subsp. stenophyllum (Boissieu) Pu.
41811667|Bauhinia tuichiensis Cayola & A. Fuentes es una especie nueva de Fabaceae coleccionada en bosque seco durante las expediciones de campo del Proyecto Inventario Florstico de la Regin Madidi en Bolivia. Adems de B. cookii Rose, B. tuichiensis es la segunda de 15 especies dentro de la serie Decandrae Wunderlin, K. Larsen & S. S. Larsen (tribu Cercideae Bronn, seccin Amaria (S. Mutis ex Caldas) Endl.) que presenta flores amarillas. Bauhinia tuichiensis se diferencia de B. cookii, la especie morfolgicamente ms emparentada, por tener inflorescencias densas (vs. laxas), con raquis corto de ca. 3 mm (vs. 10-15 mm); gineceo ms grande 7-10  1.5 mm (vs. 4-5  ca. 0.2 mm), ovario ovoide (vs.linear) y estigma capitado (vs. linear) ms ancho 1.5-2 mm (vs. ca. 0.2 mm). Bauhinia tuichiensis Cayola & A. Fuentes is a new species of Fabaceae that was collected in dry forest during fieldwork for the Madidi Project in Bolivia. In addition to B. cookii Rose, B. tuichienis is the second species of 15 within the series Decandrae Wunderlin, K. Larsen & S. S. Larsen (tribu Cercideae Bronn, seccin Amaria (S. Mutis ex Caldas) Endl.) that has yellow flowers. Bauhinia tuichiensis differs from B. cookii, a morphologically more closely related species, having dense inflorescences (vs. lax) with short rachis ca. 3 mm (vs. 10-15 mm), larger gynoecium 7-10  1.5 mm (vs. 4-5  ca. 0.2 mm), ovoid ovary (vs. linear), and stigma capitate (vs. linear), wider at 1.5-2 mm (vs. ca. 0.2 mm).
10.2307/3392184|Omphalea ankaranensis, a shrub endemic to limestone karst hills of northern Madagascar, is described and illustrated. The species is closely related to Omphalea palmata Leandri of western Madagascar but differs in its entire to coarsely crenate-dentate leaf blade margins, broader inflorescence bracts, lax cymules, and shorter pistillate flower pedicels. The new combination Omphalea oppositifolia (Willdenow) L. J. Gillespie is made for the widely distributed rainforest species of eastern Madagascar, previously known as Omphalea biglandulosa Persoon. A synopsis including new lectotypifications and a key to the four Madagascan species of Omphalea is provided.
3393444| Begonia phuthoensis H. Q. Nguyen (sect. Coelocentrum), a new species from Phu Tho and Thanh Hoa Provinces (Vietnam), is described and illustrated for Begoniaceae. Begonia cavaleriei H. Lveill (sect. Diploclinium), a species previously known only from China, is reported for the first time from Vietnam. 
10.2307/3392078|Recent plant collecting and exploration in Palawan, Philippines, led to the rediscovery of a Microrphium (Gentianaceae) species that had not been validly published. The Palawan species, M. elmerianum, extends the distribution range of the genus, which is known previously from the Malay Peninsula and Thailand. The biogeographic significance of this finding, as well as its significance to the conservation needs of Palawan's unique plant diversity, are briefly discussed.
10.2307/3392261|Carex radfordii Gaddy is a new species of Carex sect. Laxiflorae from the southern Appalachian Mountains of North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia. It is a robust species most closely allied to Carex purpurifera Mackenzie and Carex laxiflora Lamarck. Its long awns, glaucous blue-green blades, and brownish white basal sheaths distinguish it from other species of Carex.
23018492|Two new species of Aristolochia (Aristolochiaceae), A. ledongensis Han Xu, Y. D. Li & H. J. Yang and A. jianfenglingensis Han Xu, Y. D. Li & H. Q. Chen, are described and illustrated from Hainan Island, China. Aristolochia ledongensis differs from the similar A. championii Merr. & Chun and A. bambusifolia C. F. Liang ex H. Q. Wen by having the exterior of the calyx yellow (vs. yellowish green), a smaller basal portion of the calyx tube (1516  4.5 5 mm vs. 3070  710 mm), a narrower calyx limb (0.50.7 cm vs. 1.56 cm wide), and a shorter peduncle (0.71 cm vs. 1.85 cm). Aristolochia jianfenglingensis differs from the similar A. championii and A. bambusifolia by having the stems glabrous (vs. densely villous), the exterior of the calyx light red-brown (vs. yellowish green), a smaller basal portion of the calyx tube (2326  56 mm vs. 3070  710 mm), and a narrower calyx limb (0.80.9 cm vs. 1.56 cm wide). Aristolochia championii and A. bambusifolia have densely villous stems; the exterior of the calyx is yellowish green, with a larger basal portion of the calyx tube (> 30  ca. 10 mm); the calyx limb is discoid and more than 15 mm wide; and the peduncle is longer than 18 mm. Both new taxa are assessed as Vulnerable (VU D2) according to IUCN Red List criteria.
10.2307/3391687|Erysimum hedgeanum is a new name proposed to replace the later homonym that would result from the transfer of Arabidopsis erysimoides to Erysimum.
10.2307/3393258| Pinus fragilissima Businsk (Pinaceae), a new species of Pinus subg. Pinus, is described from southeastern Taiwan. Comprised of trees with very sparse crown and fragile, symmetrical, 6-9 cm long cones with often flat apophyses, it appears to be most closely related to P. luchuensis Mayr, endemic to the Nansei Islands, and to P. taiwanensis Hayata. The latter is circumscribed here as a Taiwan endemic with the exclusion of superficially similar but probably unrelated mainland Chinese pines. These three allied species are classified here as the sole representatives of Pinus subg. Pinus ser. Luchuenses E. Murray. 
3393431|Two new species, Aegiphila aracaensis from Brazil and A. hystricina from Venezuela, are described and illustrated, and their relationships with allied species are discussed. Aegiphila aracaensis shares morphological similarities with A. venezuelensis Moldenke, although it differs in leaf shape, length, and width, and in the corolla tube externally covered by a denser canescent indument. Aegiphila hystricina is a shrub to small tree distinguished by its congested elongate inflorescences, and the flowers subtended by three bracteoles covered by glandular trichomes, 8- to 10-septate. The species is related to Aegiphila arcta Moldenke, but differs from it in leaf shape, length, and width, petiolate leaves, and larger glandular trichomes.
10.2307/3391741|A new species of cycad, Ceratozamia alvarezii (Zamiaceae) from Chiapas, is described and illustrated. This species has affinities with C. matudai from Chiapas and C. sabatoi from Queretaro and Hidalgo. It differs from these species with regard to trunk, leaf habit, and male and female cones. It differs from C. norstogii, also from Chiapas, in that the latter is a much larger unbranched plant with a spirally twisting leaf rachis. /// Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie, Ceratozamia alvarezii (Zamiaceae). Esta especie presenta afinidad con C. matudai y C. sabatoi de Queretaro e Hidalgo. Esta especie difiere de las anteriores por la hoja, hbito de los estrbilos y morfologa del tronco. Tambin difiere de C. norstogii dado que la ltima es una planta ms grande, no ramificada y la rquis torcida espiralmente.
10.2307/3393380|The new section Pterosperma in Passiflora subg. Decaloba (Passifloraceae) is described from southern Mexico and Central America on the basis of leaf, inflorescence, seed, and fruit morphology. Species in this section are the sole hosts of the specialized herbivore Eueides lineata (Heliconidae). A morphological key to its four species is given, and two species, Passiflora lancetillensis and P. pedicellaris, are newly described and illustrated.
27765231|An additional subspecies and two new varieties of Rosa woodsii Lindl. (Rosaceae) are recognized in western North America. Rosa woodsii subsp. puberulenta (Rydb.) W. H. Lewis & Ertter, characterized by an open habit and moderately curved prickles, is the predominant bottomland subspecies occurring in the Colorado Plateau of Colorado, Utah, Arizona, Nevada, New Mexico, and Wyoming. Atypical unarmed populations of R. woodsii subsp. arizonica (Rydb.) W. H. Lewis & Ertter endemic to Oak Creek Canyon in the Mogollon Rim region of Coconino County, Arizona, are described as R. woodsii var. ertterae W. H. Lewis. The new combination R. woodsii var. arizonica (Rydb.) W. H. Lewis is provided for the remainder of R. woodsii subsp. arizonica. A key to the six subspecies of R. woodsii is provided.
20406271|New fruiting collections made since the publication of an account of Iridaceae for Flora Zambesiaca in 1993 show that spring-flowering plants until now referred to Gladiolus crassifolius Baker are better treated as a separate species, the earliest name for which is G. mosambicensis Baker. It is distinguished by the slightly smaller flowers, dry, obtuse floral bracts, and round, broadly winged seeds; G. crassifolius has green, acute bracts and wedge- to pear-shaped seeds with the wing fully developed at one or both ends but not on the sides. In addition, plants from northern Zimbabwe provisionally referred to G. permeabilis subsp. edulis (Burchell ex Ker Gawler) Obermeyer in the Flora Zambesiaca account of the genus do not belong in this species and are here described as G. metallicola Goldblatt. This plant, a member of section Hebea (Persoon) Bentham & Hooker f., remains known from one collection from the Great Dyke in Lomagundi District. Gladiolus L., the largest genus of the Iridaceae in the flora, now has 39 species in the Flora Zambesiaca region alone, and a total of 254 species worldwide.
10.2307/3391699|Cynoglossum macrocalycinum from Xinjiang, China, is described as new, and its distinguishing characters from the other species of the genus are given. The new combinations C. furcatum var. villosulum and Hackelia difformis are proposed.
40856309|We describe Passiora madidiana P. Jrg., Cayola & Araujo-Murakami (Passifloraceae) as new from Bolivia. It belongs to Passiflora L. subg. Passiflora and is probably closely related to P. crassifolia Killip, P. mapiriensis Harms, P. actinia Hook., and P. jilekii Wawra. The material was collected during a floristic inventory project of the dry forest within the Madidi National Park. We presume the species to be endemic to these highly seasonal and isolated dry forests that surround the upper part of the Rio Tuichi within the Madidi National Park. Describimos a Passiflora madidiana P. Jrg., Cayola & Araujo-Murakami como una especie nueva, que pertenece a Passiflora L. subg. Passiflora y es probablemente cercana a P. crassifolia Killip, P. mapiriensis Harms, P. actinia Hook, y P. jilekii Wawra. El material fue colectado durante el inventario florstico del bosque seco en el Parque Nacional Madidi. Presumimos que esta especie es endmica de estos bosques secos estacionales y aislados que estn en los alrededores de la parte alta del ro Tuichi dentro el Parque Nacional Madidi.
43289114|Two new species of Dracaena Vand. ex L. (Asparagaceae, Nolinoideae) from Central Africa are here described and illustrated. Dracaena longipetiolata Mwachala & Eb. Fisch, from Gabon is distinguished from D. phrynioides Hook, by its long petioles and elliptic leaves. Dracaena litoralis Mwachala & Eb. Fisch, is described from Cameroon and also occurs in Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, and Congo-Brazzaville. This new taxon differs from D. braunii Engl. by its smaller flowers whose perianth lobes are shorter than the tube. The identity of D. braunii is discussed and its affinity with D. litoralis analyzed.
3393463|Work in progress for the Lauraceae volume of the Flora of China has yielded one undescribed species and several new synonyms. In this contribution, a new species, Actinodaphne menghaiensis J. Li, is described from Yunnan, Southwest China, and its affinities are discussed. Four new synonyms are proposed: Litsea garrettii Gamble, L. euosma W. W. Smith, L. atrata S. Lee, L. magnoliifolia Yang & P. H. Huang for L. martabanica (Kurz) Hooker f., L. mollis Hemsley, L. salicifolia (Nees) Hooker f., L. semecarpifolia (Nees) Hooker f., respectively. Lectotypes are designated for Litsea garrettii Gamble, L. mollis Hemsley, and L. euosma W. W. Smith.
10.2307/3391985|Triniochloa gracilis, a new species from the Sierra Madre del Sur in the Mexican states of Guerrero and Oaxaca, is described and illustrated. The new species is distinguished from all other species of the genus by its narrow panicles and short, equal glumes. A key to all of the known species of the genus is provided. /// Se describe e ilustra como especie nueva a Triniochloa gracilis, proveniente de los estados de Guerrero y Oaxaca en la Sierra Madre del Sur. La nueva especie es distinguida de todas las otras especies del gnero por las panculas estrechas y las glumas cortas e iguales. Se presenta una clave para todas las especies conocidas del gnero.
3393422| Fourteen new species of the genus Gonolobus (Apocynaceae, Asclepiadoideae) from Mexico and Central America are described and illustrated. Gonolobus asterias, G. hammelii, G. truncatifolius, G. ustulatus, and G. variabilis are endemic to Costa Rica. Gonolobus grayumii is from Costa Rica and adjacent Panama and G. hadrostemma is from Costa Rica and adjacent Nicaragua. Gonolobus albiflorus, G. croceus, and G. sandersii are from western Mexico. Gonolobus pallidus is from southern Mexico and G. exannulatus is from southern Mexico and Guatemala. Gonolobus ancoriferus is found in southeastern Mexico and Honduras and G. cuajayote is found in southern Mexico, El Salvador, and Nicaragua. /// Se describen e ilustran catorce nuevas especies del gnero Gonolobus (Apocynaceae, Asclepiadoideae) de Mxico y Centroamrica. Gonolobus asterias, G. hammelii, G. truncatifolius, G. ustulatus, y G. variabilis son especies endmicas de Costa Rica. Gonolobus grayumii es de Costa Rica y Panam y G. hadrostemma es de Costa Rica y Nicaragua. Gonolobus albiflorus, G. croceus, y G. sandersii son del oeste de Mxico. Gonolobus pallidus es del sur de Mxico y G. exannulatus es del sur de Mxico y Guatemala. Gonolobus ancoriferus se encuentra en el sureste de Mxico y en Honduras y G. cuajayote se encuentra en el sur de Mxico, El Salvador y Nicaragua. 
10.2307/3393191|The new species Palicourea awa, P. clerodendroides, P. cogolloi, P. eburnea, P. garcioides, and P. glandulifera are described and illustrated, and the variety P. justicioides var. macrocalyx M. C. G. Kirkbride is recognized as a species, P. kirkbrideae. These are all shrubs or small trees found in wet forests at 900-3040 m in Colombia and northwestern Ecuador. /// Las especies nuevas Palicourea awa, P. clerodendroides, P. cogolloi, P. eburnea, P. garcioides y P. glandulifera se describen e ilustran, y la variedad P. justicioides var. macrocalyx M. C. G. Kirkbride se trata como una especie, P. kirkbrideae. Todas estas especies son arbustos o rboles pequeos de bosque hmedo a 900-3040 m en Colombia y el noroeste de Ecuador.
20406353|Paris stigmatosa Shu-dong Zhang (Melanthiaceae) is described and illustrated from northeastern Yunnan, China. The new species was found growing in wet habitats under bamboo thickets on Yaoshan Mountain of Qiaojia County. The new species is very similar to P. polyphylla Smith, from which it differs by having fewer subsessile leaves (four to six), 3-merous flowers, and stigmas 21-34 mm long. A key to the new species and sympatric species is given, and their similarities are discussed.
10.2307/3393516|Two new species, Rhododendron dayaoshanense L. M. Gao & D. Z. Li from Guangxi, southern China, and Rhododendron longilobum L. M. Gao & D. Z. Li from Yunnan, southwestern China, are described and illustrated here. Rhododendron dayaoshanense, known only from Dayaoshan Mountain, Guangxi, is distinguished by the following characters: the leaves narrowly oblanceolate or oblong-lanceolate, short setose on undersurface and midrib, petiole densely glandular setose, pedicel densely gray-puberulent and glandular-pilose as well as ovary densely flavescent-tomentose. Rhododendron longilobum is collected only from Daweishan Mountain, southeast Yunnan, and is distinguished from its close relatives by the characters of the leaf blades with prominent lateral primary veins on both surfaces, calyx lobes membranaceous, linear, linear-lingulate or narrowly triangular, and 0.5-2 cm long; ovary densely flavescent tomentose and truncate at the apex.
10.2307/3391670|Leucoloma crosbyi, a new species from northern Madagascar, is described, resulting from a revision of the pantropical genus. Diagnostic characters include: robust habit; narrow, opaque, juxtacostal bands tapering to basal region; costal-laminal transition zone with 2-9 multi- to bistratose rows; interior cells forming broad scarious region; narrow hyaline margin; and longitudinally thick-walled alar cells. It is most closely related to L. grandidieri Ren. & Card, and has been confused with L. talazaccii Ren. & Card.
10.2307/3393046|Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie del gnero Monophyllanthe, M. araracuarensis S. Surez, Galeano & H. Kennedy (Marantaceae) de la Amazonia colombiana y la brasilea adyacente. Esta es la segunda especie descrita para el gnero, previamente conocido solo de Guyana Francesa y Surinam. La nueva especie se distingue principalmente por su inflorescencia esparcidamente ramificada, con 3 a 7 brcteas por rama, producida en un brote sin hojas que sale directamente del rizoma. /// A new species of Monophyllanthe, M. araracuarensis S. Surez, Galeano & H. Kennedy (Marantaceae) from Amazonian Colombia and adjacent Brazil, is described and illustrated. This is the second species described in the genus, which was previously known only from French Guiana and Suriname. The new species is characterized by its sparsely branched inflorescence, with 3 to 7 bracts per branch, borne on a separate, leafless shoot directly from the rhizome.
10.2307/3391610|A disjunct population of Cryosophila recently discovered in the Colombian Choc is morphologically quite distinct from previously described Cryosophila species. Unique to the genus are its large fruits with large, deeply furrowed seeds. This new Cryosophila, C. macrocarpa, appears to be most closely allied to C. guagara of the Golfo Dulce area of Costa Rica and adjacent Panama.
3393419| The new species Tibouchina rubrobracteata belongs to section Pleroma D. Don. It is distinguished from related species by the presence of larger bracteoles than those usually found in section Pleroma, glabrous staminal filaments and style, the hypanthium not constricted at the apex, and a globose fruit. This species occurs in highland "campo rupestre" vegetation in the Serra da Canastra National Park in the state of Minas Gerais, an important center of endemism in Brazil. /// A espcie nova Tibouchina rubrobracteata pertence  seo Pleroma D. Don.  distinta das espcies prximas pela presena de bractolas maiores que o usualmente encontrado na seo Pleroma, filetes e estilete glabros, hipanto no constrito no pice e fruto globoso. Esta espcie ocorre nos campos rupestres do Parque Nacional da Serra da Canastra, no estado de Minas Gerais, um importante centro de endemismo. 
3393341|In preparation for the treatment of Myrcia (Myrtaceae) for Flora Mesoamericana, the new combination Myrcia zetekiana (Standley) B. Holst is required.
20406301|Juncus paludosus E. L. Bridges & Orzell is described and illustrated as a new species from peninsular Florida, U.S.A., occurring primarily in hardwood and cypress swamps and adjacent ditches and marshes. Although closest in diagnostic characters to J. megacephalus M. A. Curtis, it has been confused with J. polycephalus Michaux of section Iridifolii Snogerup & Kirschner based on its overall size, gross morphology, and floral characteristics. Differences between J. paludosus and other closely related species of section Ozophyllum Dumortier are discussed, and a key is provided to the group within section Ozophyllum that includes J. paludosus.
10.2307/3391997|Clerodendrum L. s.l. subg. Cyclonema (Hochstetter) Guerke plus Clerodendrum sect. Konocalyx Verdcourt (subg. Clerodendrum pro parte) are recognized as a distinct genus, for which the earliest name is Rotheca Rafinesque. The new combinations Rotheca commiphoroides (Verdcourt) Steane & Mabberley, Rotheca makanjana (H. Winkler) Steane & Mabberley, Rotheca myricoides (Hochstetter) Steane & Mabberley, Rotheca incisa (Klotzsch) Steane & Mabberley, Rotheca sansibarensis (Guerke) Steane & Mabberley, Rotheca sansibarensis subsp. occidentalis (Verdcourt) Steane & Mabberley, Rotheca sansibarensis subsp. caesia (Guerke) Steane & Mabberley, and Rotheca serrata (L.) Steane & Mabberley are made.
10.2307/3391611|Recent expeditions in the Venezuelan Guayana have resulted in additional new taxa in Justicia (Acanthaceae). The following places these novelties and new combinations on record for the convenience of other taxonomists prior to the publication of the Flora of the Venezuelan Guayana. Nine new Venezuelan species of Justicia, J. breteleri, J. delascioi, J. huberi, J. monachinoi, J. nuriana, J. panarensis, J. parimensis, J. paruana, and J. uvida, are described, illustrated, and compared with their closest relatives. In addition, two new combinations, J. paraguazensis and J. moritziana, are also necessary. A key to all of the known species of Justicia from the region (Territorio Federal Delta Amacuro, Estado Bolvar, and Territorio Federal Amazonas) is also provided.
10.2307/3392006|Two new combinations are made in Madhuca: M. krabiensis (Aubrville) P. Chantaranothai and M. lecomtei (Aubrville) P. Chantaranothai.
10.2307/3391680|A new species, Aegiphila narinensis (Verbenaceae), from La Planada Reserve, Colombia, is described, and its affinities are discussed. The new species has mucronate calyx lobes, and the corolla is larger than in any other species in the genus and has a curved tube. This name is needed to complete the botanical list of plants collected at La Planada Reserve being compiled by Olga de Benavides and Alwyn Gentry.
10.2307/3391977|Macromitrium crosbyorum sp. nov., M. echinatum sp. nov., M. frustratum sp. nov., M. picobonitum sp. nov., and M. sejunctum sp. nov. are described based on Central American material. A key to the species of Macromitrium in Central America is given. The 30 Central American species of Macromitrium are arranged into 7 informal groups.
40300894|In this paper, we provide corrections to a recent synoptical revision of the family Onagraceae (Wagner et al., 2007). The first valid publication of subfamily Onagroideae was in 1834 by Eaton, and not in 2007 by Wagner et al. We correct the authorship and place of publication of Camissonia contorta (Douglas) P. H. Raven, Chylismia scapoidea (Torrey & A. Gray) Nuttall ex Raimann, and Camissonia chamaenerioides (A. Gray) P. H. Raven. We correct the authorship and typification of Oenothera suffulta (Engelmann ex A. Gray) W. L. Wagner & Hoch, as well as the typification of Chylismia claviformis subsp. lancifolia (A. Heller) W. L. Wagner & Hoch. Our new genus Holmgrenia W. L. Wagner & Hoch is a later homonym of a name validly published by S. 0. Lindberg in 1863. We propose the replacement name of Neoholmgrenia W. L. Wagner & Hoch to correct this problem, and make the two species-level combinations, TV. andina (Nuttall) W. L. Wagner & Hoch, and N. hilgardii (Greene) W. L. Wagner & Hoch.
20406217|With the recent taxonomic review of Chaetostoma DC., it was found that six species did not present the set of diagnostic features established to delimit the genus. Chaetostoma is characterized by sessile, keeled to subkeeled, overlapping, acute leaves and a trichome crown on the external apex of the length of the hypanthium. Three species of Chaetostoma are transferred to Microlicia D. Don: M. acuminata Naudin (C. acuminatum (Naudin) Cogniaux), M. castrata Naudin (C. castratum (Naudin) Cogniaux), and M. oxyanthera Naudin (C. oxyantherum (Naudin) Triana). Two new names are also proposed: M. baumgratziana A. B. Martins & Koschnitzke (C. gardneri Triana) and M. semiriana Koschnitzke & A. B. Martins (C. luetzelburgii Markgraf). The new combination M. parvula (Markgraf) Koschnitzke & A. B. Martins (C. parvulum Markgraf) is provided. The name M. oxyanthera Naudin is lectotypified herein. /// A recente reviso taxonmica de Chaetostoma DC. revelou que seis espcies no exibem as caractersticas diagnsticas estabelecidas para delimitar o gnero. Chaetostoma  caracterizado por apresentar folhas ssseis, carenadas a subcarenadas, imbricadas, pungentes, e coroa de tricomas no pice externo do hipanto. Trs espcies de Chaetostoma esto sendo transferidas para Microlicia D. Don: M. acuminata Naudin (C. acuminatum (Naudin) Cogniaux), M. castrata Naudin (C. castratum (Naudin) Cogniaux), e M. oxyanthera Naudin (C. oxyantherum (Naudin) Triana). Dois novos nomes esto tambm sendo propostos: M. baumgratziana A. B. Martins & Koschnitzke (C. gardneri Triana) e M. semiriana Koschnitzke & A. B. Martins (C. luetzelburgii Markgraf). A nova combinao M. parvula (Markgraf) Koschnitzke & A. B. Martins (C. parvulum Markgraf)  fornecida. O nome M. oxyanthera Naudin  aqui lectotipificado.
10.2307/3393042|The new combinations Pennellia microsperma and P. tricornuta are proposed for Arabis microsperma and A. tricornuta, which are narrowly endemic species from Chihuahua, Mexico, and southern Arizona. The distinguishing features and geographic distribution of the genus Pennellia are discussed, and a synopsis and key to the 11 currently recognized species are presented.
10.2307/3391772|Parathesis costaricensis, P. glendae, and P. longipedicellata are described and illustrated, and their phylogenetic relationships are discussed. A key is provided to separate the new species. In addition, a new combination is made for Parathesis sinuata (from Colombia), and P. amazonica Mez is lectotypified.
43288948|A new species of Aulonemia Goudot (Poaceae) is formally described here from the Distrito Federal and Gois in central Brazil. Aulonemia xerophylla P. L. Viana & Filg., known from gallery forests in the Cerrado, has deflexed and coriaceous leaf blades and awnless spikelets as diagnostic characters. Descriptions and illustrations of macromorphological and anatomical characters of the new species are provided, as well as comments on its IUCN conservation status of Endangered (EN). Urna nova especie de Aulonemia Goudot (Poaceae), nativa do Distrito Federal e Gois, Brasil,  aqui formalmente descrita. Aulonemia xerophylla P. L. Viana & Filg., conhecida de matas de galera em Cerrado no Brasil central, possui, como caracteres diagnticos, lminas foliares coriceas e deflexas e espiguetas mticas. Sao apresentadas descrioes e ilustraoes de caracteres mofolgicos e anatmicos da nova especie assim como seu status de conservaao, ameaada, de acordo com os criterios da IUCN.
10.2307/3393211|Two new species of passionflower vine (Passiflora, Passifloraceae) from southwestern and southern Mexico are described and illustrated. Passiflora mcvaughiana and P. manantlanensis, both in subgenus Decaloba (DC.) Reichenbach, belong to sections Cieca (Medikus) DC. and Decaloba, respectively. This brings the number of named native species of Passiflora recognized in Mexico to 68, with 21 native to the southwestern area known as Nueva Galicia.
23018494|The results of morphological observation and principal component analysis indicate that Groutiella laxotorquata (Mll. Hal. ex Besch.) Wijk & Margad. is conspecific with G. tomentosa (Hornsch.) Wijk & Margad. Furthermore, the names G. tomentosa, G. laxotorquata, and G. pobeguinii (Paris & Broth.) Wijk & Margad. are lectotypified.
10.2307/3392024|Paepalanthus humilis, known only from Piat, Bahia, Brazil, is described and illustrated. Its placement in Paepalanthus sect. Actinocephalus is clear, due to flowers and inflorescence features. The species is compared to P. bahiensis (Bongard) Kunth, P. brachypus (Bongard) Kunth, P. ciliatus (Bongard) Kunth, and P. ochrocephalus Koernicke, the species most similar to it. /// Paepalanthus humilis  descrita e ilustrada.  includa em Paepalanthus sect. Actinocephalus por caractersticas das flores e inflorescncias. A espcie  comparada com P. bahiensis (Bongard) Kunth, P. brachypus (Bongard) Kunth, P. ciliatus (Bongard) Kunth e P. ochrocephalus Koernicke, as espcies mais prximas. Paepalanthus humilis  conhecida, at o momento, somente de Piat, Bahia, Brasil.
10.2307/3393204|A new species of Encholirium from the campos rupestres of Minas Gerais, Brazil, is described and illustrated. Encholirium reflexum is a distinctive taxon characterized by reflexed leaves, imbricate petals and sepals, as well as style and stamens included in the corolla tube. The most closely related species is E. pedicellatum (Mez) Rauh, which can be distinguished by its higher number of leaves per rosette, flowers with short pedicels, and suborbicular and imbricate sepals. /// Uma nova espcie de Encholirium procedente dos campos rupestres de Minas Gerais, Brasil  descrita e ilustrada. Encholirium reflexum caracteriza-se por apresentar folhas reflexas, ptalas e spalas imbricadas, estames e estilete inclusos no tubo da corola. Difere de E. pedicellatum (Mez) Rauh por possuir um nmero muito maior de folhas por roseta, pelas flores com pedicelos reduzidos e spalas suborbiculares e imbricadas.
10.2307/3393028|The new species Cardamine gouldii is described and illustrated from Bhutan. Its distinguishing characters and relationship to the closely related Himalayan C. violacea and C. nepalensis are discussed. This last species is reported for the first time from Sikkim.
40960820|Following a recent revision of the Ocotea indecora (Schott) Meisn. ex Mez group (Lauraceae), some taxonomic and nomenclatural changes have been made. We present here the resulting synonyms, together with typifications, and one new combination. Seven new synonyms are proposed. The following seven names are lectotypified: Mespilodaphne indecora (Schott) Meisn. var. cannella Meisn., M. indecora var. intermedia Meisn., M. indecora var. laxa Meisn., M. indecora var. stricta Meisn., O. complicata (Meisn.) Mez, O. elegans Mez, and O. fasciculata (Nees) Mez. Mespilodaphne leucophloea Nees & Mart, is transferred as O. leucophloea (Nees & Mart.) L. C. S. Assis & Mello-Silva. Seguindo uma reviso recente do grupo Ocotea indecora (Schott) Meisn. ex Mez (Lauraceae), algumas mudanas taxonmicas e nomenclaturais tm sido feitas. Ns apresentamos aqui os sinnimos resultantes, juntos com tipificaes e uma combinao nova. Sete sinnimos novos so propostos. Os sete nomes seguintes so lectotipificados: Mespilodaphne indecora (Schott) Meisn. var. cannella Meisn., M. indecora var. intermedia Meisn., M. indecora var. laxa Meisn., M. indecora var. stricta Meisn., O. complicata (Meisn.) Mez, O. elegans Mez e O. fasciculata (Nees) Mez. Mespilodaphne leucophloea Nees & Mart.  transferido como O. leucophloea (Nees & Mart.) L. C. S. Assis & Mello-Silva.
43288938|A complete description of Esenbeckia cowanii Kaastra (Rutaceae) is presented, including new details for floral morphology. The original type of this taxon included only fruiting material, thus we designate an epitype with flowers. In addition, we provide taxonomic emendation to E. cowanii, including its leaf morphology variation, details of the fruit and seed, and an update of its geographic distribution.
10.2307/3391820|This paper is a precursor to the account of the Asclepiadaceae in the Flora of China. A new genus and species, Sichuania alterniloba, is described. Twenty-four new species are described in Biondia (B. crassipes, B. laxa, B. parviurnula, B. revoluta, and B. tsiukowensis), Ceropegia (C. sinoerecta), Cynanchum (C. bicampanulatum, C. brevicoronatum, C. duclouxii, C. kingdonwardii, C. longipedunculatum, C. megalanthum, C. pingshanicum, C. rockii, and C. sinoracemosum), Hoya (H. commutata and H. mekongensis), Marsdenia (M. brachyloba, M. tenii, and M. yuei), and Tylophora (T. forrestii, T. rockii, T. tuberculata, and T. uncinata). Jasminanthes is resurrected. Eleven new combinations are proposed in Ceropegia (C. exigua), Cynanchum (C. boudieri subsp. caudatum), Heterostemma (H. menghaiense), Hoya (H. chinghungensis), Jasminanthes (J. chunii, J. mucronata, J. pilosa, and J. saxatilis), and Tylophora (T. costantiniana, T. oligophylla, and T. tsiangii). The new name Cynanchum triangulare is proposed to replace C. deltoideum Hooker, not Hance. New synonymy is proposed in Cynanchum, Lygisma, Marsdenia, and Tylophora. The status of Merrillanthus is discussed.
10.2307/3391697|Studies of the vegetation of Parque Nacional Natural "Las Orqudeas" and surrounding areas, located at the junction of Antioquia and Choc departments, on the western slopes of the Cordillera Occidental, have revealed two new species of Ardisia Swartz. These species, Ardisia mcphersonii and A. cardenasii, are described and illustrated, and their phylogenetic relationships are discussed. Another new species, A. pluvialis, from the Choc Floristic Province of northwestern Ecuador at the foothills of the western slope of the Cordillera Occidental, is also described and illustrated, and a key to distinguish it from its two most closely related congeners is provided.
10.2307/3391522|Populations until now treated as Anomatheca laxa that occur along the coast of northern Natal and southern Mozambique are referred to a new subspecies azurea. These plants differ in their pale blue perianth with dark blue to violet markings and in their generally smaller flowers with a fairly long perianth tube. Subspecies azurea flowers in the cool months, June to mid-September, and is restricted to sandy soils, unlike typical red- to pink-flowered subspecies laxa, which flowers mainly from November to February, and is largely montane, favoring rocky sites.
10.2307/3393015|Two new species from the family Asteraceae, tribe Astereae, were collected during botanical investigations in the Ecuadorian Andes. Oritrophium llanganatense Sklen & H. Robinson and Floscaldasia azorelloides Sklen & H. Robinson are here described and illustrated. Oritrophium llanganatense is distinct from other species of the genus by a combination of abaxially lanate leaves with outer phyllaries narrowly ovate to oblong. Floscaldasia azorelloides differs from the other species of the genus by its three-lobed leaves. The two species inhabit the upper superpramo and are restricted to remote areas of the Ecuadorian Eastern Cordillera. /// Dos nuevas especies de la familia Asteraceae, tribu Astereae, se colectaron durante investigaciones botnicas en el superpramo del Ecuador. Las dos especies, Oritrophium llanganatense Sklen & H. Robinson y Floscaldasia azorelloides Sklen & H. Robinson, se describen e ilustran. Oritrophium llanganatense difiere de las otras especies del gnero por tener hojas lanosas abaxiadamente y brcteas exteriores ovadas a oblongas. Floscaldasia azorelloides difiere de las otras especies del gnero por tener las hojas trilobadas. Las especies se encuentran en el superpramo alto en reas remotas de la Cordillera Oriental del Ecuador.
10.2307/3391600|Se describen y se ilustran dos nuevas especies del gnero Nototriche: N. antoniana y N. peruviana. Caracteres morfolgicos, incluyendo una estuctura a manera de "corona," que las diferencian de las dems especies del gnero se presentan en una tabla. /// Two new species of the genus Nototriche are described and illustrated: N. antoniana and N. peruviana. Morphological characters, including a "corona"-like structure, which differentiate them from the other species in the genus, are presented in a Table.
20406133|The recently published name Isolepis tenella (L. f) Muasya & D. A. Simpson is illegitimate, because there exists an earlier homonym. A new name, I. levynsiana Muasya & D. A. Simpson, is proposed for Cyperus tenellus.
10.2307/3392048|A new species of Mollinedia from Costa Rica, M. macrophylla J. F. Morales & Q. Jimnez, is described and illustrated.
3393539| Swartzia barnebyana, a new legume species with a vining habit from the state of Amazonas in Venezuela, is described and illustrated. The new species belongs to section Possira, series Unifoliolatae, in which it is closely related to both S. floribunda Spruce ex Bentham and S. iniridensis R. S. Cowan, by its intramarginally interconnected primary veins and its densely strigulose-velutinous pubescence on branchlets, inflorescence axes, and external calyx segments. Swartzia barnebyana may be distinguished from both related species mainly by the type and color of the ovary pubescence, shape and size of leaflet blades, number of calyx segments, and absence of pubescence in the internal surface of the calyx. /// Se describe e ilustra Swartzia barnebyana, una especie nueva de leguminosa con hbito trepador del estado Amazonas, Venezuela. La especie nueva pertenece a la seccin Possira, serie Unifoliolatae dentro de la cual se relaciona estrechamente con S. floribunda Spruce ex Bentham y S. iniridensis R. S. Cowan por las venas primarias interconectadas intramarginalmente y la pubescencia densamente estrigulosa-velutina sobre ramitas, eje de las inflorescencias y segmentos externos del cliz. Swartzia barnebyana se distingue de las especies relacionadas, principalmente por el tipo y color de la pubescencia en el ovario, la forma y tamao de la lmina de los fololos, el nmero de segmentos del cliz y la ausencia de pubescencia en la superficie interna del cliz. 
10.2307/3391409|Cacabus flavus is transferred to the genus Exodeconus.
3393484|Ruyschia andina, a new species found on the eastern slopes of the Andes in Ecuador. Peru, and Bolivia at altitudes of around 2000 m. is described and illustrated. The species is distinguished from the other species of the genus by the leaves with two conspicuous rows of numerous hypophyllous glands and the 3(or 4)-loculed ovary. The relationship between Ruyschia and Souroubea is discussed, and a generic key is given.
10.2307/3391577|The name Prasophyllum correctum D. L. Jones replaces P. chasmogamum R. Bates & D. L. Jones, the latter being based on an incorrect selection of a type.
20406272|Three new closely related species of Eleocharis R. Brown (Cyperaceae) from Andean pramos are described from Colombia: E. fassettii S. Gonzlez & P. M. Peterson, E. cuatrecasii S. Gonzlez & P. M. Peterson, and E. moraosejoana S. Gonzlez, C. Ulloa & P. M. Jrgensen. They all belong to Eleocharis subgen. Eleocharis, sect. Eleocharis, and differ from related species by a combination of characters, among which are the thin, loose upper sheath apices and the unusual achene shape that is conspicuously tapered toward the base and apex. /// Se describen tres nuevas especies de Eleocharis R. Brown (Cyperaceae) de Colombia: E. fassettii S. Gonzlez & P. M. Peterson, E. cuatrecasii S. Gonzlez & P. M. Peterson y E. moraosejoana S. Gonzlez, C. Ulloa & P. M. Jrgensen, conocidas solamente de pramos andinos. Todas forman parte de Eleocharis subgen. Eleocharis, secc. Eleocharis. Difieren de las especies relacionadas en una combinacin de caractersticas entre las que destaca el pice de la vaina superior delgado y laxo y la forma del aquenio, angostado hacia la base y el pice.
40300906|A new species of Cyanus Miller (Centaurea L. p. p.) (Asteraceae), C. eflanensis Kaya & Bancheva, is described and illustrated from Karabiik Province, Turkey. It belongs to Cyanus sect. Napuliferi (Stefanoff & T. Georgiev) Bancheva & Raimondo, and taxonomically its closest relative is C. thirkei (Schultz Bipontinus) Holub. The habitat and conservation status of the new species are presented, and the morphological characters distinguishing C. eflanensis and C. thirkei are analyzed and illustrated.
10.2307/3393560|A new species of Rhododendron sect. Vireya from Mount Jaya, West Papua (Irian Jaya), Indonesia, is described and illustrated. The new species, Rhododendron xenium Gillian Brown & Craven, is related to R. womersleyi and R. rubineiflorum, of subsection Euvireya, based on scale and corolla features and leaf size. An identification key to R. xenium and related species in subsection Euvireya is provided.
10.2307/3391892|A new species of the genus Ligusticum L., L. pseudodaucoides H. Peng & Yin Z. Wang, is described and illustrated. It was collected from the summit of the Wuliangshan Range in Jingdong County, south central Yunnan Province, China. Its affinity to L. daucoides is discussed, and habitat data are given.
27765225|The name Parodia leninghausii (F. Haage) F. H. Brandt (Cactaceae) is in common use for a widespread and easily grown plant, but no valid combination has ever been published. The missing combination P. lenninghausii (F. Haage) F. H. Brandt ex Eggli & Hofacker is published here, together with the designation of a lectotype and a note on the orthography of the name.
10.2307/3391917|Five new species and two varieties from Qinghai Province, China, are described, discussed, and compared with their closest presumed relatives. Cremanthodium microglossum (Asteraceae), Oxytropis qinghaiensis (Fabaceae), Comastoma jigzhiense (Gentianaceae), Gentiana clarkei var. lutescens (Gentianaceae), Parnassia qinghaiensis (Saxifragaceae), Pedicularis armata var. trimaculata (Scrophulariaceae), and Peristylus humidicolus (Orchidaceae). Two of the species are illustrated.
23018472|A new South American species of Solidago L. (Asteraceae, Astereae) from Argentina, Chile, and Bolivia was identified within the subsection Junceae (Rydb.) G. L. Nesom. Using multivariate analyses on a matrix of 50 characteristics for 79 specimens, the distinctiveness of a South American S. missouriensis-like taxon was tested and determined to be statistically different from four morphologically similar North American species: S. gattingeri Chapm. ex A. Gray, S. juncea Aiton, S. missouriensis Nutt., and S. pinetorum Small. Therefore, a new South American species is proposed: S. argentinensis Lopez Laph. & Semple.
20406079|During work for the Flora of Somalia account of Apocynaceae subfamily Asclepiadoideae, a new species of uncertain affinity was discovered. DNA analysis revealed that the new species, Calciphila gillettii Liede & Meve, is most closely related to the recently described Cynanchum galgalense Liede, which was only provisionally included in Cynanchum L. after DNA analysis. As the best taxonomic solution for the two species not fitting into any of the known genera of milkweeds, the description of a new genus, Calciphila Liede & Meve, is proposed. Also, in the course of work for the Flora of Somalia, it was realized that Cynanchum clavidens N. E. Brown needs to be renamed Cynanchum hastifolium K. Schumann if the two taxa are considered to constitute subspecies of the same species, because C. clavidens has previously been put into synonymy with C. hastifolium. Finally, work on the Flore des Seychelles brought to light that Cynanchum robertsoniae Liede is identical with the Indian C. callialatum Buchanan-Hamilton ex Wight, and needs to be placed in synonymy with the latter. A lectotype is designated for C. callialatum.
41811680|Clethra concordia D. A. Neill, H. Beltrn & Quizhpe (Clethraceae), a thin-stemmed shrub or treelet from the sandstone Machinaza plateau in the Cordillera del Cndor region on the Peru-Ecuador border, is described and illustrated. The new species is distinct from other species of Clethra L. in its small stature and its very small, thick sclerophyllous leaves, which are evidently an ecological adaptation to the highly acidic, nutrient-poor sandstone substrate where it occurs. Se describe y se ilustra Clethra concordia, D. A. Neill, H. Beltrn & Quizhpe (Clethraceae), un arbusto o arbolito con tallos delgados, procedente de la meseta de Machinaza, de roca arenisca, en la regin de la Cordillera del Cndor en la frontera entre Pen y Ecuador. La especie nueva se distingue de las dems especies de Clethra L. en su estatura pequea y en las hojas muy pequeas, gruesas y esclerfilas, las que evidentemente constituyen una adaptacin al substrato de arenisca muy cido y pobre en nutrientes, en donde se encuentra esta especie.
20406317|Lobelia lithophila Senterre & Castillo-Campos (Campanulaceae, Lobelioideae) is described as a new species from the lowland tropical evergreen rainforest of the region of Uxpanapa, in southern Veracruz, Mexico. This species is only known from the type locality and probably represents a microendemic. The species described is most closely related to L. orientalis Rzedowski & Caldern, another local endemic from Quertaro, Mexico. Both taxa combine the herbaceous life form with leaves more or less in a rosette at ground level and a completely superior ovary, and are from specialized habitats. The new species is easily distinguished by its longer leaf blade and smaller petiole, and by its reduced leaf pubescence. Its habitat is also unusual, as it is restricted to limestone rocks in the understory of lowland tropical rainforest. Lobelia lithophila belongs to subsection Leiospermae E. Wimmer within the section Lobelia, subgenus Lobelia L. /// Se describe como nueva especie para la ciencia a Lobelia lithophila Senterre & Castillo-Campos. Esta es una especie conocida solamente de la localidad tipo y probablemente corresponde a un taxa microendmico para la selva alta perennifolia de la zona de Uxpanapa al sur de Veracruz, Mxico. La especie aqu descrita esta ms relacionada con L. orientalis Rzedowski & Caldern, otro microendmico en este caso de Quertaro, las cuales se destacan por ser especies herbceas con hojas arrosetadas en el suelo con ovario totalmente spero y que tambin son de hbitats muy restringidos. Es fcil distinguir a la especie nueva por sus hojas grandes pero de pecolos pequeos, y por su pubescencia menos desarrollada. Asimismo, es una especie que se localiza en un hbitat especial, en sustratos rocosos calizos de bajas altitudes, en el sotobosque de la selva alta perennifolia. Esta especie pertenece a la subseccin Leiospermae E. Wimmer, seccin Lobelia del subgnero Lobelia L.
10.2307/3392263|Rhynchospora cabecarae Gmez-Laurito (Cyperaceae), a new species belonging to section Racemosae C. B. Clarke, is described and illustrated.
20406334|Two new species, Hesperis anatolica A. Duran and H. hamzaoglui A. Duran (Brassicaceae), are described and illustrated from Anatolia, Turkey. Hesperis anatolica grows in serpentine pebbly slopes and open pine forest and scrub in Pozant and Karsant (Adana province). It is closely related to H. persica Boissier, an endemic confined to South Anatolia. Hesperis hamzaoglui grows in granitic rocky sites in a forest-steppe ecotone from Zorkun Yayla (Osmaniye province). It is closely related to H. podocarpa Boissier, an endemic confined to the Amanos Mountains. Diagnostic morphological characters are discussed, as well as the ecology, biogeography, and conservation status of both new species. In addition, the pollen characteristics and seed coat surface of H. anatolica, H. persica, H. hamzaoglui, and H. podocarpa are examined by SEM. Hesperis anatolica is diploid with a new report of the chromosome number of 2n = 12.
3393449| Study of type material from the transvolcanic region of Mexico of two species of Oenothera sect. Hartmannia (tribe Onagreae, Onagraceae), currently known as Oenothera deserticola (Loesener) Munz and O. purpusii Munz, indicates that they represent the same species. Thus, the later name O. purpusii becomes a new synonym of O. deserticola. Also, a neotype is designated herein for O. deserticola. The only available name for the second species, previously incorrectly called O. deserticola, is Hartmannia montana Rose, but since O. montana is already occupied, a new name, O. orizabae, is here proposed. A previously unreported chromosome count of n = 7 is given for O. deserticola. While examining collections to resolve this problem, a series of specimens from the Sierra Madre Occidental was determined to represent a third species here described as O. luciae-julianiae. These three species can be distinguished by a suite of characters involving habit, petal color, and capsules. Oenothera deserticola is characterized by decumbent stems, morning-opening flowers, rose purple petals, and angled, but unwinged capsules with an attenuate apex, while O. luciae-julianiae has erect or ascending stems, evening-opening flowers, white petals, and narrowly winged capsules with an abruptly acuminate apex. Oenothera orizabae has decumbent stems, evening-opening flowers, white petals, and large-winged capsules with a rounded apex. /// El estudio de los tipos de Oenothera deserticola y O. purpusii de la seccin Oenothera seccin Hartmannia procedentes de la regin trasvolcnica de Mxico, indica que ambos representan la misma especie. Como resultado, O. purpusii es considerado sinnimo de O. deserticola. Una segunda especie, originalmente descrita como Hartmannia montana, pero cuyo epteto especfico est ocupado en Oenothera, es substituido por el nombre O. orizabae, el cual es aqu propuesto. El estudio de las colecciones procedentes de la Sierra Madre Occidental determin que existe una tercera especie, la cual es aqu descrita como O. luciae-julianiae. Estas tres especies pueden ser distinguidas por una serie de caracteres relacionados al hbito, color de ptalo y de las cpsulas. Oenothera deserticola es caracterizada por tallos decumbentes, flores de apertura matutina, ptalos purpreo-rosados y cpsulas angulosas, pteras y atenuadas hacia el pice, mientras que la especie de la Sierra Madre, aqu descrita como O. luciae-julianiae, tiene tallos erectos o ascendentes, flores que abren al anochecer, ptalos blancos y cpsulas estrechamente aladas con un pice abruptamente acuminado. Oenothera orizabae tiene tallos decumbentes, flores que abren al anochecer, ptalos blancos y cpsulas aladas, grandes, con el pice redondeado. 
10.2307/3392183|Four new species from Costa Rica are described and illustrated: Oncidium imitans, Ornithocephalus grex-anserinus, Paphinia subclausa, and Scaphyglottis atwoodii. The following new combinations are made: Encyclia peraltensis (Ames) Dressler, Reichenbachanthus subulatus (Schlechter) Dressler, Stellilabium lankesteri (Ames) Dressler, amd Trichosalpinx rotundata (C. Schweinfurth) Dressler.
27765244|Erigeron latifolius Hao Zhang & Z. F. Zhang (Asteraceae, Astereae), a new species of Erigeron L. from Sichuan, China, is described and illustrated. It is similar to E. multiradiatus (Lindl. ex DC.) Benth. ex C. B. Clark, but can be distinguished by features of the flowers and leaves. The capitula are small (1.22.5 cm); the anthers do not protrude beyond the corolla; the midcauline leaves are large (815  12.5 cm) and lanceolate to oblonglanceolate; and the distal leaves are lanceolate, dense, and not much reduced, but smaller (25  0.51 cm). The new species is endemic to China and is identified as Endangered (EN), according to IUCN Red List criteria.
10.2307/3391971|Encephalartos imbricans, a new species from Uganda, is described, illustrated, and circumscribed in terms of other tropical African arborescent species. It is a large arborescent plant, with leaflets mostly strongly incubously overlapping. The strobili are green and glabrous; the megastrobilus is ovoid, shortly pedunculate, with the surfaces of the bullae wrinkled; the microstrobili emerge in succession, being narrowly ovoid, longpedunculate, with the surfaces of the bullae smooth.
10.2307/3392104|Breutelia pilifera differs from all other species of Breutelia by its non-sheathing leaves that have costae excurrent into long, naked awns and reddish orange basal leaf cells across the leaf insertion. A key to the 14 species of Breutelia in Central America is given.
20406077|During the revision of Actinidiaceae for the Flora of China, two new combinations are proposed, Actinidia fulvicoma var. cinerascens (C. F. Liang) J. Q. Li & D. D. Soejarto and Saurauia polyneura var. paucinervis (C. F. Liang & Y. S. Wang) J. Q. Li & D. D. Soejarto.
10.2307/3392027|The taxon most recently known as Oenothera avita W. Klein subsp. arizonica (Munz) Klein is here elevated to species level. It is easily distinguished from the perennial taxa of this complex, currently treated as three subspecies of O. californica, by its annual habit with a taproot, stems thickened near the base and tapering toward the apex, buds with conspicuous purple spots, each spot at the base of a long hair, longer attenuate capsules, and pinnatifid leaves.
20406152|Cousinia aligudarzensis Attar & Ghahreman (Asteraceae), a new species of section Cynaroides Bunge (as "Cynaroideae") is described and illustrated. The distinguishing characters of section Cynaroides and those separating the new species from its nearest relative are discussed.
10.2307/3393134|Faramea zamorensis, a new species from Costa Rica, is described and illustrated. Its affinity to other species is discussed. The species is easily distinguished from congeners by its calyx lobes 5-7 mm long, its funnel-shaped corolla, and its costate hypanthium and fruits.
40300881|Se describe y se ilustra Forestiera isabelae Hammel & Cornejo, conocida de una sola poblacin pequea en Costa Rica, por Montezuma en la Pennsula de Nicoya. Siendo una especie costera con ptalos, y adems con hojas y frutos relativamente grandes (9-17 X 4-6 cm y 15-20 mm, respectivamente), se separa fcilmente de las otras dos especies costarricenses, aptalas y de elevaciones ms altas. Se compara con y se distingue detalladamente de otras dos especies costeras recin descritas y con las cuales est cercanamente relacionada, F. corollata Cornejo & Wallander de ms al norte en Mesoamrica (Mxico, Guatemala y Belice) y F. ecuadoriensis Cornejo & Bonifaz del Ecuador. /// Forestiera isabelae Hammel & Cornejo, known from one small population near Montzuma on the Nicoya Peninsula of Costa Rica, is described. As a lowland coastal species with petals and relatively large leaves and fruits (9-17 X 4-6 cm and 15-20 mm, respectively), it is easily distinguished from the two other Costa Rican species, both apetalous and from higher elevation. It is compared with and distinguished in detail from two other more closely related, recently described coastal species, F. corollata Cornejo & Wallander from farther north in Mesoamerica (Mexico, Guatemala, and Belize) and F. ecuadoriensis Cornejo & Bonifaz from Ecuador.
40300920|A new species, Hymenocallis gholsonii G. Lorn. Smith & Garland (Amaryllidaceae), is described and illustrated. It is a rare endemic that occurs along a stream and its branches in the Apalachicola National Forest, in Liberty County, Florida, U.S.A. Its robust bulbs, narrowly oblanceolate, green-yellow leaves, and robust perianth tubes distinguish it from the allied H. choctawensis Traub, which has more slender bulbs, shiny green, prominently oblanceolate leaves, and slender perianth tubes.
10.2307/3391975|The study of recently collected specimens of neotropical Sapindaceae reveals the need for various taxonomic changes. Matayba spondioides Standley from Mexico is transferred to Averrhoidium; Paullinia lachnocarpa Bentham ex Radlkofer (Chimborazoa lachnocarpa (Bentham ex Radlkofer) H. Beck) from Ecuador is transferred to Serjania (therefore, Chimborazoa is reduced to the synonymy of Serjania); and Toulicia acuminata Radlkofer from Amazonas, Brazil, is transferred to the closely related Porocystis. /// El estudio de especmenes de Sapindaceas neotropicales, recientemente coleccionados revela la necesidad de varios cambios taxonmicos. Matayba spondioides Standley de Mxico es transferido al gnero Averrhoidium; Paullinia lachnocarpa Bentham ex Radlkofer (Chimborazoa lachnocarpa (Bentham ex Radlkofer) H. Beck) del Ecuador es transferido al gnero Serjania (como resultado el gnero Chimborazoa es reducido a sinonimia con Serjania); Toulicia acuminata Radlkofer proveniente de Amazonas, Brasil, es transferido al gnero cercano Porocystis.
20406084|Schindleria (Phytolaccaceae) is a small genus of only three species from Peru and Bolivia. Routine identification of recent Peruvian collections has revealed a new species. Schindleria tomentosa Ricketson is described and illustrated, and its conservation status (CRBID) and phylogenetic relationships are discussed. In addition, three synonyms are lectotypified (Rivina densiflora Kuntze var. flavida Kuntze, S. weberbaueri O. C. Schmidt, and S. glabra H. Walter), and a fourth synonym (Villamilla rosea) is deemed illegitimate. /// El gnero Schindleria (Phytolaccaceae) contiene solamente tres especies provenientes del Per y Bolivia. Durante el transcurso de identificar colecciones peruanas se descubri una especie nueva para la ciencia. Se describe e ilustre Schindleria tomentosa Ricketson y se discute su estado de conservacin parentezco. Adems, se lectotipifica tres sinnimos (Rivina densiflora Kuntze var. flavida Kuntze, S. weberbaueri O. C. Schmidt y S. glabra H. Walter), y se determine que otro sinnimo (Villamilla rosea) es ilegtimo.
10.2307/3391984|Deherainia lageniformis Gmez-Laurito & N. Zamora, from Costa Rica, is described, illustrated, and compared with its closest relative. /// Se describe de Costa Rica una nueva especie de Deherainia (Theophrastaceae), adems se ilustra y se compara con la otra especie cercana.
23018473|Seven new species are described in Dioclea Kunth (Fabaceae, Diocleinae). Dioclea ovalis R. H. Maxwell is described from Colombia and assigned to series Dioclea. Within subgenus Dioclea, the new series Virgatae R. H. Maxwell is created, with the new species D. vallensis R. H. Maxwell included from Colombia. Two sections established by Bentham are raised to subgenera status, as the new combinations Dioclea subg. Pachylobium (Benth.) R. H. Maxwell and Dioclea subg. Platylobium (Benth.) R. H. Maxwell. Within subgenus Platylobium, D. hispidimarginata R. H. Maxwell is described from Peru. Within subgenus Pachylobium, four new species are described: D. apiculata R. H. Maxwell from Bolivia, D. circinata R. H. Maxwell from Colombia, D. haughtii R. H. Maxwell from Colombia and Venezuela, and D. jamesonii R. H. Maxwell from Ecuador. Dioclea macrocarpa Huber is designated as lectotype for Dioclea sect. Macrocarpon Amshoff.
3393399|Oxypolis ternata (Nuttall) A. Heller (Apiaceae) is superseded by the new combination O. denticulata (Baldwin) J. R. Edmondson, which is lectotypified herein.
10.2307/3391563|Among the bryophytes collected in northwestern Kansas by Vernon L. Wranosky of Colby, Kansas, during the summer of 1990 is a new genus and species of Pottiaceae, Ozobryum ogalalense. Subsequent collecting in the vicinity has resulted in two additional localities for this moss, one in Kansas and one in Nebraska.
10.2307/3393043|Richterago, a genus endemic to Brazil, re-established from Gochnatia Kunth, has until now been comprised of 10 species with a center of diversity in the Espinhao Range, Minas Gerais, Brazil. Five new species of Richterago, R. caulescens, R. conduplicata, R. elegans, R. lanata, and R. riparia, are described and illustrated, bringing the total in the genus to 17. All species are endemic to the campo rupestre vegetation and are characterized by their habit and leaf morphology. Richterago caulescens and R. elegans are subshrubs, chamaephytes with alternate leaves, the former with rose-colored disc florets; the other new species are herbs, hemicryptophytes with rosulate leaves. Richterago conduplicata is distinguished by its obovate and conduplicate leaves; R. lanata has oblanceolate leaves that are coriaceous, densely white-lanate, and R. riparia has oblanceolate to spathulate leaves that are chartaceous and glabrescent. Commentaries concerning other morphological features of the new species and their ecology and geographical distribution are presented.
10.2307/3392213|Nototrichium divaricatum Lorence from the Hawaiian Island of Kaua'i, distinguished from its congeners by its compoundly branched inflorescences with divaricate branches and shorter spikes, is described and illustrated, and its affinities within the genus are discussed.
10.2307/3392100|Echidnium spruceanum Schott is transferred to Dracontium as D. spruceanum (Schott) G. Zhu. The original observation of unilocular ovaries with two ovules per locule on the holotype is here considered to have been erroneous. Dracontium carderi Hooker f., D. costaricense Engler, D. trianae Engler, D. loretense K. Krause, and D. ornatum K. Krause are placed in synonymy under D. spruceanum. A lectotype is designated for the name D. trianae.
10.2307/3391465|Four new combinations in Limonium (L. lacostei, L. dielsianum, L. chrysocomum subsp. semenovii, and L. callianthum), one in Armeria (A. labradorica subsp. sibirica), and one in Acantholimon (A. laevigatum) are proposed.
10.2307/3391726|Ruprechtia howardiana, from deciduous forests in Bolvar state, Venezuela, is newly described and illustrated. It appears most closely related to R. ramiflora (Jacquin) Meyer.
10.2307/3393243|Macrocarpaea angustifolia, known only from the Departamento de Pasco, Peru, differs from the sympatric M. revoluta in having glabrous, narrower, acuminate leaves with obscure secondary venation. It further differs in its verrucose (Rusbyanthus-type) pollen, which suggests a closer relationship to such species as M. corymbosa and M. viscosa.
3393490|Two new species of Myrtaceae are described and illustrated, Calycolpus aequatorialis of Ecuador and Psidium huanucoense of Peru. Calycolpus aequatorialis appears to have a close relative in C. surinamensis, but differs in having a closed calyx, relatively little indumentum, and strongly 4-winged twigs. Psidium huanucoense is compared with the similar species P. acutangulum from which it differs in having velvety indumentum of short, yellowish, erect hairs and larger leaves. Comparison with P. guineense is also made, from which it differs in venation, number of ovules, anther length, and hair length.
10.2307/3392955|As a result of recent revisionary studies in the genus, a new species, Homozeugos conciliatum, is described from the central highlands of Angola in western Africa. It is differentiated from the more common Homozeugos eylesii C. E. Hubbard by a much shorter ligule, inrolled leaves, and longer microhairs on the abaxial surface of the leaves with a lower ratio of basal cell length to distal cell length. A full description of the new species and its predicted habitat is given.
40300940|Four new orchid species from Madagascar are described and illustrated. Notes on the distribution, ecology, and conservation status are provided. Bulbophyllum uroplatoides Hermans & G. A. Fischer, B. histrionicum Reichenbach f. ex G. A. Fischer & P. J. Cribb, and B, senghasii G. A. Fischer & Sieder belong to section Calamaria Schlechter, whereas B. bryophytoides G. A. Fischer & Andriantiana belongs to section Lichenophylax Schlechter. Bulbophyllum uroplatoides Hermans & G. A. Fischer is related to B. cardiobulbum Bosser, but differs in the thickened racemes, overall plant size, the shape of the sepals, petals, and lip, and coloration. Bulbophyllum histrionicum Reichenbach f. ex G. A. Fischer & P. J. Cribb was previously recognized by Reichenbach as a new species, but was never formally described. It is characterized by its large, orbicular to somewhat ovoid pseudobulbs that are green flushed with red, large, ovate-oblong to ovate-lanceolate leaves, red floral bracts, long sepals, narrowly triangular petals, and glabrous lip. Bulbophyllum senghasii G. A. Fischer & Sieder has orbicular, non-compressed bifoliate pseudobulbs, flowers with greenish yellow sepals that are spotted with dark brown on the outside, and an elliptic lip that is not compressed in the middle and has erose rather than long-ciliate margins and falcate rather than straight stelidia. Bulbophyllum bryophytoides G. A. Fischer & Andriantiana is a very tiny plant distinguishable from other species of section Lichenophylax by its densely long-ciliate petals and its ciliate lip that lacks a median callus and has a glabrous surface. /// Quatre nouvelles espces d'orchide de Madagascar sont dcrites et illustres. Notes sur la distribution, cologie et sur le statut de conservation sont fournis. Bulbophyllum uroplatoides Hermans & G. A. Fischer, B. histrionicum Reichenbach f. ex G. A. Fischer & P. J. Cribb, et B. senghasii G. A. Fischer & Sieder appartiennent  la section Calamaria Schlechter tandis que B, bryophytoides G. A. Fischer & Andriantiana appartient  la section Lichenophylax Schlechter. Bulbophyllum uroplatoides Hermans & G. A. Fischer est etroitement apparent au B. cardiobulbum Bosser, mais le port de la plante, le modle, la coloration des spales et ptales ainsi que la grappe paisse les differencie. Bulbophyllum histrionicum Reichenbach f. ex G. A. Fischer & P. J. Cribb pralablement reconnu par Reichenbach comme nouvelle espce mais jamais dcrite ni publiee formellement. Il est bien caractris par des pseudobulbes larges, spheriques un peu ovoides, feuilles ovales-oblongs  ovales-lancoles, larges de couleur verte empourpre, bracte florale rouge, spales longues, ptales troitement triangulaires et labelle glabre. Bulbophyllum senghasii G. A. Fischer & Sieder a des pseudobulbes bifolis, non comprims, sphriques (orbiculaires), fleurs  spales jaunes verdatres, tachets brunies vers l'extrieur, labelle elliptique non-comprim au milieu  bordure plutot ronge que longuement cilie, stelidie plutot falci forme que rectiligne. Bulbophyllum bryophytoides G. A. Fischer & Andriantiana est une plante tres petite, distinguable facilement des autres espces de la section Lichenophylax par ses ptales densement long-ciles et labelle cili sans callus median et  surface glabre.
10.2307/3391403|A new species, Ceratozamia sabatoi, is described and illustrated. Its closest affinities are with C. kuesteriana from Tamaulipas, but it differs from that species in both cone and leaf morphology. The chromosome number of Ceratozamia sabatoi is 2n = 16, and the karyotype is similar to other species of the genus.
20406098|The new species Brachystelma nutans Bruyns (Apocynaceae, Asclepiadoideae) is described from the botanically relatively little-known Mount Namuli complex in the northern part of Zambzia Province of northern Moambique.
3393497|When Oryzopsis is confined to the type species, Chinese species are placed in Achnatherum and Piptatherum. This necessitates the following new combinations: Piptatherum grandispiculum, Piptatherum aequiglume var. ligulatum. Piptatherum tibeticum var. psilolepis. Piptatherum munroi var. parviflorum, Achnatherum henryi, and Achnatherum henryi var. acutum. Achnatherum henryi is lectotypified. The new name Piptatherum kuoi replaces the illegitimate name Piptatherum obtusum, and this species is lectotypified. Hierochloe potaninii is transferred to Anthoxanthum as A. potaninii, as Hierochloe is regarded as a synonym of Anthoxanthum. All the grass taxa (Poaceae) listed are endemic to China.
23259344|Two new species of Oryctanthus (Griseb.) Eichler (Loranthaceae), O. grammatus Kuijt from Colombia (Bolvar) and O. guianensis Kuijt from French Guiana, are described and illustrated. Both are characterized by extremely short inflorescences and small leaves and unusual furfuraceous stem surfaces.
10.2307/3392951|Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie de Croizatia (Euphorbiaceae) de la Costa Ecuatoriana. Croizatia cimalonia es una especie arbustiva o pequea arbrea que se caracteriza por formar colonias entre alturas de 300-800 m en el Cerro Cimaln de la Reserva Ecolgica Manglares-Churute. Se caracteriza por los tallos con corteza externa fisurada, pecolos cortos de 5-13 mm, estriados, flores pentmeras, verdosas, pedicelos femeninos 25-40 mm de largo, estrigillosos, frutos cpsulas 3-lobada. /// A new species of Croizatia (Euphorbiaceae) from the costal lowlands of Ecuador is described and illustrated. Croizatia cimalonia is a shrub or small tree that forms stands between 300 and 800 m on Cerro Cimaln in the Reserva Ecolgica Manglares-Churute. It is characterized by trunks with fissured external bark; short, transversely striate petioles (5-13 mm long); greenish pentamerous flowers, shortly strigose pistillate pedicels (25-40 mm long); and 3-lobed, capsular fruits.
10.2307/3393108|Three Mesoamerican species of Marsdenia and four of Matelea are described as new and illustrated. New combinations are provided for a South American Blepharodon, a Mesoamerican Cynanchum, seven Mexican species of Dictyanthus, a species of Gonolobus from Mesoamerica and Ecuador, and one Mesoamerican and two Ecuadorian species of Jobinia. One species of Marsdenia and one of Metastelma, both from Mexico, are lectotypified, and the new name Marsdenia purpusiana W. D. Stevens is provided for Ecliptostelma molle Brandegee. The typification of Matelea amplyacuensis Morillo is clarified, and the synonymy of Metaplexis rostellata Turczaninow is corrected.
10.2307/3393100|Three new species of South American Randia (Rubiaceae, Gardenieae) are described and illustrated: Randia wigginsii Standley ex Gustafsson from montane tropical forests in Ecuador and northern Peru is mainly recognized by its tomentose to velutinous corolla tube and the lanate-velutinous pedicels and fruits. The possible features of being unarmed and having single male flowers are discussed. Randia pubistyla Gustafsson from lowland tropical dry forests in western Ecuador and Colombia is recognized by its puberulous style, the tomentose to puberulous fruits that usually are crowned by a calyx with reflexed lobes, and by the small thorns. Randia longifolia Gustafsson from lowland tropical humid forests in western Ecuador is mainly recognized by its relatively large, glabrous corolla, the linear calyx lobes, and by the reticulate finer vasculature on the abaxial surface of the leaves. The affinities for each species are discussed.
10.2307/3391730|Two subgenera in Echeandia (Anthericaceae), i.e., subg. Echeandia and subg. Mscavea, are recognized based on time of flower opening, tepal shape, flower color, and habitat differences. Fifteen species are proposed. One, E. texensis, is based on four collections made near Brownsville, Texas, and is surely rare, possibly extirpated. The recognition of five species clarifies the distributional range of E. reflexa, a common species of eastern Mexico. Seven species are endemic to Guerrero and adjacent areas of Michoacn, Mxico, Morelos, and/or Oaxaca. A key to the species of subgenus Mscavea and white-flowered species of subgenus Echeandia is provided.
10.2307/3393269|Comparative survey shows that Rohdea differs from eight species of Tupistra, one species of Campylandra (C. aurantiaca), and one species of Gonioscypha (G. eucomoides) mainly by the degree of thickness of the perianth and in the shape and length of the perianth lobes. As these differences do not seem to deserve generic delimitation, those species of the last three genera are here transferred to Rohdea. As a consequence, the following 10 new combinations are proposed: Rohdea aurantiaca (Baker) N. Tanaka, Rohdea chinensis (Baker) N. Tanaka, Rohdea delavayi (Franchet) N. Tanaka, Rohdea emeiensis (Z. Y. Zhu) N. Tanaka, Rohdea ensifolia (F. T Wang & Ts. Tang) N. Tanaka, Rohdea eucomoides (Baker) N. Tanaka, Rohdea jinshanensis (Z. L. Yang & X. G. Luo) N. Tanaka, Rohdea longipedunculata (F. T. Wang & S. Yun Liang) N. Tanaka, Rohdea tonkinensis (Baillon) N. Tanaka, and Rohdea verruculosa (Q. H. Chen) N. Tanaka.
10.2307/3393130|Phylogenetic analyses of sequence data of the chloroplast protein coding genes rbcL and rps4, and the chloroplast encoded trnL (UAA) intron suggest that morphological characters traditionally used in delimiting the genera Diphyscium Mohr, Muscoflorschuetzia Crosby, and Theriotia Cardot in the moss family Diphysciaceae are homoplastic; Diphyscium is paraphyletic, and Theriotia and Muscoflorschuetzia are nested in Diphyscium. Therefore, only Diphyscium Mohr should be recognized in Diphysciaceae, and Muscoflorschuetzia Crosby and Theriotia Cardot should be made synonyms of Diphyscium. Consequently, three combinations are newly made: Diphyscium kashmirense (H. Robinson) Magombo, Diphyscium lorifolium (Cardot) Magombo, and Diphyscium pilmaiquen (Crosby) Magombo.
10.2307/3391408|The range of the genus Deprea is discussed, and a new species, Deprea hirtiflora, from Venezuela, is described and illustrated. An over-looked, second species, Deprea granulosa, is also presented and illustrated.
10.2307/3391526|Nomenclatural changes, affecting Marmoritis and Scutellaria, are made for the upcoming Flora of China.
10.2307/3392153|In preparation for the treatment of Calyptranthes (Myrtaceae) for the Flora de Nicaragua, a summary and identification key to the five known species from the country are presented. One of these, Calyptranthes amarulenta B. Holst, a new species from central Nicaragua, is described and illustrated. The new species is characterized by having bicolorous leaf blades when dry that are rounded to obtuse at the apex, a biconvex midvein on the upper leaf surface, and a glabrous inflorescence.
10.2307/3391411|The following two taxa are proposed as new: Pleurothallis erebatensis and Trichosalpinx oxychilos. Both species are illustrated with plates by the late G. C. K. Dunsterville. Comments are provided on their relationships.
23259414|Neuwiedia malipoensis Z. J. Liu, L. J. Chen & Ke Wei Liu (Orchidaceae, Apostasioideae), from southeastern Yunnan Province in China, is described, illustrated, and photographed. The new species is characterized by a true corolla lip, which is widely obovate and concave, with a subterete claw at the base and a fleshy linear callus extending from its claw to the upper portion. By these features it can be easily distinguished from its allied N. veratrifolia Blume, N. balansae Baill. ex Gagnep., and other species of this genus.
20406184|The following new infrageneric taxa are described: Bazzania S. Gray sect. Glaucobazzania J. J. Engel (Lepidoziaceae) and Cephalozia (Dumortier) Dumortier subg. Eocephalozia R. M. Schuster ex J. J. Engel (Cephaloziaceae). Solenostoma cryptogynum R. M. Schuster ex J. J. Engel (Jungermanniaceae), C. austrigena R. M. Schuster ex J. J. Engel, C. schusteriana J. J. Engel, C. pachygyna R. M. Schuster ex J. J. Engel (Cephaloziaceae), Cephaloziella pseudocrassigyna R. M. Schuster ex J. J. Engel (Cephaloziellaceae), and Hyalolepidozia microphylla R. M. Schuster ex J. J. Engel (Lepidoziaceae) are new species. Kurzia helophila R. M. Schuster var. flaccida R. M. Schuster ex J. J. Engel and Allisoniella nigra (Rodway) R. M. Schuster var. acutiloba J. J. Engel are new varieties. Lophozia monoica (Hodgson) J. J. Engel, Andrewsianthus hodgsoniae (R. M. Schuster) R. M. Schuster ex J. J. Engel, A. scabrellus (C. Massalongo) R. M. Schuster ex J. J. Engel, A. sphenoloboides (R. M. Schuster) R. M. Schuster ex J. J. Engel, Solenostoma hodgsoniae (Grolle) J. J. Engel, S. rufiflorum (Colenso) J. J. Engel, Pseudomarsupidium aureocinctum (R. M. Schuster) J. J. Engel, P. crossii (Spruce) J. J. Engel, and Cephaloziella varians (Gottsche) Stephani var. subantarctica (R. M. Schuster) R. M. Schuster ex J. J. Engel are new combinations.
40960823|A new species of Impatiens L., I. oblongipetala K. M. Liu & Y. Y. Cong (Balsaminaceae), from Yunnan Province, China, is described and illustrated, including its seed and pollen micromorphologies. This species is similar to I. lecomtei Hook. f. and I. weihsiensis Y. L. Chen, but differs by the white to slightly pink lateral sepals, the white lower sepal without purple striae, and the lateral united petals with apically retuse distal lobes.
10.2307/3391519|Murdannia cryptantha (Commelinaceae), a new species from Australia and Papua New Guinea, is described. It is most closely related to M. graminea, and it is the first species of Murdannia reported to have cleistogamous flowers.
10.2307/3392135|Valeriana tajuvensis, a species from the Serra Geral massif in Rio Grande do Sul and Santa Catarina, Brazil, is described and compared with related Brazilian species of the genus. /// Valeriana tajuvensis, especie de las montaas de Serra Geral en Rio Grande do Sul y Santa Catarina, Brasil, es descrita y comparada con las especies brasileas afines del gnero.
40856306|On the basis of extensive herbarium studies, Rubia pseudogalium Ehrend., Galium chekiangense Ehrend., G. kunmingense Ehrend., G. rupifragum Ehrend., and G. sichuanense Ehrend, are described, illustrated, and discussed as new species from Zhejiang (= Chekiang), Yunnan, and Sichuan, respectively, for the flora of eastern and southwestern China. Galium dahuricum var. densiflorum (Cufod.) Ehrend, is a new combination.
10.2307/3393084|A new species of Achimenes Persoon, A. hintoniana, is described from western Mexico and distinguished from the closely related A. mexicana by the pilose indumentum of the stem, leaves, and pedicels, the linear-lanceolate calyx lobes, and the slightly saccate purple or rarely white corolla.
10.2307/3391964|The following nomenclatural changes are proposed: Maesa brevipaniculata (C. Y. Wu & C. Chen) Pipoly & C. Chen, M. confusa (C. M. Hu) Pipoly & C. Chen, Embelia laeta (L.) Mez subsp. papilligera (Nakai) Pipoly & C. Chen, E. ribes Burman f. subsp. pachyphylla (C. Y. Wu & C. Chen) Pipoly & C. Chen, Ardisia obtusa Mez subsp. pachyphylla (Dunn) Pipoly & C. Chen, Myrsine cicatricosa (C. Chen) Pipoly & C. Chen, M. verruculosa (C. Chen) Pipoly & C. Chen, M. faberi (Mez) Pipoly & C. Chen, and M. kwangsiensis (E. H. Walker) Pipoly & C. Chen. Twenty-three taxa in Embelia and Ardisia are reduced to synonymy for the first time. Twelve names in Embelia, Ardisia, and Myrsine are lectotypified.
20406024|Since the publication of a monograph on Isolepis (Cyperaceae) in 2002, further data on the genus have been collected, necessitating additional nomenclatural change. Isolepis is a predominantly southern hemisphere genus with high species diversity in South Africa and Australia. A new combination is made here: Isolepis tenella (L.f.) Muasya & D. A. Simpson, transferring an aberrant annual previously named Cyperus tenellus.
40856325|Una nueva especie del gnero Styloceras Kunth ex A. Juss. (Buxaceae), fue encontrada en los bosques nublados del Parque Nacional Madidi y la Reserva Biosfera y Tierra Comunitaria de Origen Piln Lajas en los Andes Bolivianos. Se describe e ilustra a S. connatum Torrez & P. J0rg., taxn que presenta similitudes morfolgicas con S. penninervium A. H. Gentry & Aymard, pero se distingue de est por la consistencia de las hojas, nmero de anteras, color de flores y las caractersticas del fruto. Se proporciona una clave para la identificacin de especies de Styloceras conocidas al presente. A new species of the genus Styloceras Kunth ex A. Juss. (Buxaceae) was collected in the cloud forests of Madidi National Park and Piln Lajas Biosphere Reserve and Communal Lands in the Bolivian Andes. We describe and illustrate S.connatum Torrez & P. J0rg., a taxon that has morphological similarities with S. penninervium A.H. Gentry & Aymard, but can be distinguished by the consistency of the leaves, numbers of anthers, flower color, and the characteristics of the fruit. A key to the species of Styloceras is provided.
10.2307/3393172|The generic limits and relationships of Platycraspedum are discussed, and the new species P. wuchengyii is described. It is most closely related to Taphrospermum, from which it differs by having toothed filaments of median stamens, 2-lobed stigmas, palmately veined leaves, unequal sepals, and minutely reticulate seeds.
10.2307/3391980| Jacquinia morenoana, a new species of Theophrastaceae from the northern coast of the state of Veracruz, Mexico, is described. A discussion of its affinities with J. macrocarpa Cavanilles subsp. macrocarpa, based on the habitat and morphological characters, is presented. /// Se describe como especie nueva a Jacquinia morenoana (Theophrastaceae) de la costa norte del estado de Veracruz, Mxico. Se discuten sus afinidades con J. macrocarpa subsp. macrocarpa, se indica el hbitat y se discuten las caractersticas morfolgicas que las distinguen. 
10.2307/3392062|Durante el estudio fitosociolgico y geobotnico que actualmente realizamos sobre el Gran Chaco en Bolivia, se colect material de un arbolito de la familia Zygophyllaceae, que se propone como nuevo gnero y especie, Izozogia nellii, diferenciable de los afines por su androceo muy heteromtrico (5 + 5) y fruto indehiscente ovoidecurvado, ni anguloso ni alado, con cavidades completamente soldadas que contienen 0-3 semillas cada una. El nuevo taxon se describe, se ilustra y se compara con los afines. /// During phytosociological and geobotanical research in the Bolivian Gran Chaco, a shrubby-arborescent member of the Zygophyllaceae was collected and is described here as a new genus and species, Izozogia nellii. It is distinguished from its relatives by its strongly heterometric stamens (5 + 5) and the indehiscent, ovate-curved, unwinged, unangled fruits with completely fused cavities, each one containing 0-3 seeds. The new taxon is described, illustrated, and compared with its relatives.
10.2307/3391877|Thirty-four previously invalidly published taxa of Chinese Salix are validated. These include 14 sections (Allochroae, Biondianae, Cathayanae, Cheilophilae, Chingianae, Dodecandrae, Doliae, Eriocladae, Ernestia, Floccosae, Tangia, Tetradeniae, Variegatae, and Wilsonia), 15 species (S. acuminatomicrophylla, S. amnematchinensis, S. chingiana, S. crenata, S. forrestii, S. hupehensis, S. kansuensis, S. lamashanensis, S. ovatomicrophylla, S. pseudowolohoensis, S. shansiensis, S. schneideriana, S. tangii, S. wangiana, and S. wuiana), 4 varieties (S. atopantha var. glabra, S. caprea var. dentata, S. caprea var. sinica, and S. caprea var. subsessilis), and 1 form (S. spodiophylla f. liocarpa).
40300942|A new species, Hoya bawanglingensis S. Y. He & P. T. Li (Apocynaceae, Asclepiadoideae), is described and illustrated from Hainan, China. The morphological characters of H. bawanglingensis and the related species H. pottsii Traill are compared. Hoya bawanglingensis differs in the pubescence of its young stems, both leaf surfaces, petioles, peduncles, pedicels, outer calyx lobes, and follicles. The corolla lobes are white with purple spots, and the corona is white with a purplish center.
10.2307/3392204|Analizando-se coletas recentes realizadas em Campina Grande, estado da Paraba, Brasil, reconheceu-se uma nova espcie, Matelea roulinioides, que  aqui descrita e ilustrada. /// Matelea roulinioides, a new species of Gonolobeae (Asclepiadaceae) from northeastern Brazil, is described and illustrated.
10.2307/3391516|Research on the Orchidaceae of the Venezuelan Guayana and neighboring areas has yielded several novelties, new records, and nomenclatural changes. Nine species (one Dichaea, two Lepanthes, one Maxillaria, three Pleurothallis, one Sarcoglottis, and one Uleiorchis), a natural hybrid in Maxillaria, and two subspecies (one Myoxanthus and one Stelis) are newly described. New synonymies are proposed in Campylocentrum, Habenaria, and Octomeria. In addition, several miscellaneous country records are reported. Fifteen of the taxa presented are illustrated.
10.2307/3391900|A new species of Croton (sect. Geiseleria) from western Mexico is described and illustrated. The relationship between this species and C. cupulifer McVaugh is discussed, and a key distinguishing these two species and C. glandulosus L. is provided.
40300873|Se presenta una nueva especie y combinacin de Malvaceae, Wissadula stipulata Bovini y W. cuspidata (R. E. Fries) Bovini, respectivamente. Ambas fueron encontradas en el centro-oeste de Brasil, en las regiones del Pantanal y Amaznica. Se presenta la descripcin e ilustracin de la nueva especie, y una clave taxonmica para las especies de Wissadula en Brasil que estn relacionadas. El nombre W. cuspidata es lectotipificado /// A new species and combination in Malvaceae, Wissadula stipulata Bovini and W. cuspidata (R. E. Fries) Bovini, respectively, are presented. Both were found in the central-west of Brazil, in the lowlands and Amazon rainforest regions. A description and illustration of the new species are provided, and a taxonomic key of species related to Wissadula in Brazil is presented. The name W. cuspidata is lectotypified.
41811672|Hoya daimenglongensis Shao Y. He & P. T. Li (Apocynaceae, Asclepiadoideae) from Yunnan Province, China, is described and illustrated. This new species and H. linearis Wall. ex D. Don are similar in their linear leaves and terminal inflorescences. Hoya daimenglongensis, however, differs from H. linearis by the internal surface of the corolla, which is minutely tomentose and not papillose (vs. glabrous or papillose), and the corona lobes, which are white tinged with red (vs. pure white).
10.2307/3391601|Two new species of Jungia, J. schuerae and J. gracilis, from the Peruvian Andes are described and illustrated, and their affinities are briefly discussed.
43288940|A new species, Nepeta sahandica Noroozi & Ajani (Labiatae), is described and illustrated from the high altitudes of the Sahand Mountains in northwestern Iran. Morphological differences of this species from its closest relatives in Nepeta L. sect. Capituliferae (Benth.) Pojark., N. lasiocephala Benth. and N. monocephala Rech.f., are discussed. These species differ mainly in their respective habit, basal and stem leaves, indumentum, and character of bract and calyx. The new species is restricted to the subnival vegetation zone, associated with unstable scree grounds. Nepeta sahandica is classified as Critically Endangered (CR), based on IUCN Red List criteria.
10.2307/3391396|Studies on the plant diversity of Las Orqudeas National Park in Antioquia, Colombia, along with preparation of a treatment of the Myrsinaceae for Flora de Colombia, resulted in the discovery of four new taxa and two new combinations in Geissanthus. Examination of species known from the entire Western Cordillera of Colombia and the Choc Floristic Province, from Panama to Ecuador, resulted in the discovery of 17 species from the area. An artificial key to the species of Geissanthus from the Choc and Western Cordillera is presented, along with descriptions of four new species, G. callejasii, G. betancurii, G. francoae, and G. cogolloi. Three new combinations are made, G. longistamineus, G. perpuncticulosus, and G. scrobiculatus, and revised descriptions based on complete material are presented for G. longistamineus and G. perpuncticulosus. /// Como resultado de los estudios de la fitodiversidad del Parque Nacional Natural "Las Orqudeas," Antioquia, Colombia, y de actividades preliminares al tratamiento de Myrsinaceae para Flora de Colombia, se presentan cuatro taxa nuevos y tres nuevas combinaciones en el gnero Geissanthus. Al estudiar los especmenes de la Cordillera Occidental de Colombia y la provincia florstica chocoana desde Panam hasta Ecuador, se reconocieron 17 especies en la zona. Se presenta una clave artificial para separarlos, se describen las cuatro especies nuevas, G. callejasii, G. betancurii, G. francoae, y G. cogolloi, y se publican las tres nuevas combinaciones, G. longistamineus, G. perpuncticulosus, y G. scrobiculatus; adems se proveen descripciones revisadas para G. longistamineus y G. perpuncticulosus basadas en el estudio de material completo.
10.2307/3391384|A study of the Venezuelan Guayana species of Schefflera (Araliaceae) as part of a family treatment for the forthcoming Flora of the Venezuelan Guayana calls for recognition of 30 species not included in the 1984 summary by Maguire, Steyermark & Frodin or a later paper by Steyermark & Holst. Twenty-two species are described here, 12 of them from collections made since 1981, and 8 species are elevated from infraspecific rank. Together with 28 previously recognized species, a total of 58 species are now known from the Venezuelan Guayana and immediately adjacent parts of Brazil and Guyana. Of these, 55 species are endemic or nearly endemic to the region. At the infraspecific level, a new variety is described as Schefflera chimantensis subsp. rugosifolia var. iluensis; Didymopanax multiramosus Steyermark is restored at subspecific rank within S. chimantensis; and S. rugosifolia Maguire, Steyermark & Frodin is reduced to subspecific rank within the same species. Two previously known species are renamed for nomenclatural reasons. The Venezuelan Guayanan species of Schefflera belong to four distinct groups within the genus, for which brief synopses are provided.
10.2307/3393239|A new species, Potentilla polyphylloides H. Ikeda & H. Ohba, is described and illustrated. It is assigned to section Leptostylae by having an herbaceous habit, slender or fusiform styles, auricles of stipules of basal leaves situated at adaxial side of petioles, and flowering stems from axils of basal leaves. It resembles P. polyphylla Wallich ex Lehmann, but differs by its glandular hairs on the lower surface of leaflets, pedicels, and the outside of episepals, as well as the occasional rooting at the axils of cauline leaves on the lower portion of flowering stems. Potentilla polyphylloides resembles P. fallens Cardot sharing the glandular hairs, but P. fallens differs in having nearly entire episepals that are shorter than the sepals, and longer styles nearly twice as long as the ovaries. Potentilla polyphylloides has a chromosome number of 2n = 42, while that of P. polyphylla and P. fallens is 2n = 28.
40300884|Meliosma chartacea Lombardi (Sabiaceae), a new species from southeastern Brazil, is described from Minas Gerais and Esprito Santo. It is characterized by its entire internal petals, very short petiole (generally less than 1 cm), brochidodromous venation, and entire leaf margin. A key to determine the species from southeastern Brazil is presented. Lectotypes and new synonyms are proposed for formerly described Brazilian species: M. sellowii Urban and M. itatiaiae Urban /// Meliosma chartacea Lombardi (Sabiaceae), uma nova espcie sudeste do Brasil  descrita para Minas Gerais e Esprito Santo, esta espcie  caracterizada pelas ptalas intemas inteiras, pecolos muito curtos (geralmente com menos do que 1 cm), venao broquiddroma e pela margem inteira das folhas.  apresentada uma chave para a determinao das espcies do sudeste do Brasil. Lecttipos e novos sinnimos so propostos para as espcies brasileiras anteriormente descritas: M. sellowii Urban e M. itatiaiae Urban.
20406233|Impatiens rupestris K. M. Liu & X. Z. Cai, a new species of Balsaminaceae from Hunan Province in southern China, is described and illustrated. An identification key to the new species and its relatives is provided. Impatiens rupestris differs from I. polyneura K. M. Liu in its lamina base widely cuneate or  rounded, the lateral veins in 11 to 16 pairs, the dorsal petal widely obovate, and the lower lobes of the lateral united petals connate into obovate lamella. It is distinct from I. obesa Hooker f. in its lamina elliptic or ovate-oblong, lateral united petals stipitate, upper corolla lobes widely obovate or suborbicular, lower corolla lobes connate into obovate lamella, and seeds with tuberculate testa.
10.2307/3393041|The new monotypic genus Beringia is proposed to include the extremely similar taxa previously treated as Halimolobos mollis from northern North America and Greenland, H. virgata from western North America, and Arabidopsis bursifolia from the Russian Far East. The new combinations B. bursifolia and B. bursifolia subsp. virgata are proposed, and a key to taxa and synopsis of the genus are presented.
10.2307/3391939|Se describe e ilustra a Marsdenia callosa, una nueva especie de Asclepiadaceae del Sur de Mxico, que por mucho tiempo ha sido confundida con Marsdenia edulis S. Watson, la cual presenta una distribucin ms nortea. La principal caracterstica que distingue a Marsdenia callosa de M. edulis es la presencia de un callo anular y carnoso con pelos dorados en la garganta de la corola. /// Marsdenia callosa, a new species of Asclepiadaceae from southern Mexico, is described and illustrated. This species resembles Marsdenia edulis S. Watson, which has a more northern distribution. The main character that distinguishes Marsdenia callosa from M. edulis is an annular and fleshy callus with golden hairs in the throat of the corolla.
20406157|Notes on the taxonomy and geography of the genus Dontostemon Andrzejowski ex C. A. Meyer (Brassicaceae) are given. Torularia sergievskiana Polozhij is reduced to synonymy of D. pinnatifidus (Willdenow) Al-Shehbaz & H. Ohba, and D. glandulosus (Karelin & Kirilov) O. E. Schulz is excluded from the flora of Russia. A new subspecies, D. senilis Maximowicz subsp. gubanovii D. German (northwestern Mongolia), is described. Dontostemon intermedius Voroschilov is recognized as an independent species instead of a synonym of D. dentatus (Bunge) Ledebour.
20406025|Recent phylogenetic analyses of tribe Neillieae in Rosaceae, which comprises Neillia, Physocarpus, and Stephanandra, based on both nuclear and chloroplast DNA sequences revealed that Neillia and Stephanandra together form a strongly supported monophyletic group and that species of Stephanandra are nested within Neillia. The close relationship between Neillia and Stephanandra is also supported by leaf morphology, inflorescence type, and carpel number. In order to better reflect the evolutionary relationships among species of Neillia and Stephanandra, based on molecular phylogenetic and morphological evidence, Stephanandra is united with Neillia, and three traditionally recognized species and a hybrid of Stephanandra are transferred to Neillia. This treatment results in new combinations as follows: N. hanceana (Kuntze) S. Oh, N. incisa (Thunberg) S. Oh, and N.  nakatsu-riparia (H. Takahashi) S. Oh. Stephanandra incisa (Thunberg) Zabel var. macrophylla Hideo Takahashi is treated as a new synonym of Neillia incisa.
10.2307/3391508|Raritebe axillare, Gonzalagunia mildredae, and G. villosa, all of Peru and (except G. mildredae) Ecuador, are newly described; Remijia megistocaula is transferred to Calycophyllum; and a key is presented to the eight species of Gonzalagunia found in Peru.
23018505|A new fern genus, Himalayopteris W. Shao & S. G. Lu (Polypodiaceae, Polypodioideae), is described and established based on the new combination H. erythrocarpa (Mett. ex Kuhn) W. Shao & S. G. Lu, for its only known species distributed in northern India, Sikkim, and the adjacent Himalayas. Evidence for its generic separation lies in its venation pattern, scale characteristics, leaf epidermis, sporangia, spore ornamentation, and chromosome number. Assessment of its IUCN conservation status with georeferenced localities places the new genus in the Vulnerable category.
20406197|Mousonnia adpressipilosa D. L. Denham ex Ramrez-Roa (Gesneriaceae), a new solitary-flowered species from southern Mexico and Guatemala, is described and illustrated. It has been collected principally in Chiapas, Mexico, with only one location in the Sierra de los Cuchumatenes, Guatemala. Although the possession of solitary flowers is considered unusual in Moussonia Regel, an increase in the number of species both validly published and undescribed with this condition indicates the opposite. The combination of characteristics that distinguish the new species from other solitary-flowered species are principally the whitish strigose indumentum; the shallowly serrated and revolute leaves; the flat adaxial and abaxial surface of the leaves, adaxial surface green, abaxial surface reddish; and flowers with thick, narrow, slightly ventricose, and gradually widening tubular corollas. A key for the solitary-flowered species of Moussonia is included. /// Moussonia adpressipilosa D. L. Denham ex Ramrez-Roa (Gesneriaceae) es una nueva especie de flores solitarias del sur de Mxico y Guatemala, que se describe e ilustra. Ha sido colectada principalmente en Chiapas, Mxico y en una sola localidad en la sierra de los Cuchumatenes, Guatemala. Aunque la presencia de flores solitarias es considerada poco comn en Moussonia Regel, el aumento en el nmero de especies tanto validamente publicadas como no descritas an con esta condicin, indica lo contrario. Las caractersticas que distinguen a la nueva especies de otras de flores solitarias son principalmente el indumento estrigoso blanquecino, hoja ligeramente aserradas y revoluta, haz y envs planos, haz verde, envs rojizo y flores tubulares gruesa, angosta, ligeramente ventricosa y gradualmente ensanchada hacia el limbo. Se incluye una clave de identificacin para las especies de Moussonia con flores solitarias.
10.2307/3391929|The generic name Quidproquo is reduced to synonymy of Raphanus. The new combination R. confusus is proposed. Evidence for the retention of Brassica aucheri in Brassica, rather than in Sinapis, is presented.
40300878|The new name Matelea endressiae Goes & Fontella is proposed to replace Gonolobus cordatus Malme from Brazil. A new species, M. demuneri Goes & Fontella, from Esprito Santo State, Brazil, is described and illustrated. Matelea demuneri is similar to M. endressiae and M. maritima (Jacquin) Woodson subsp. cearensis (Malme) Fontella, but it is distinguished from the first by its shorter pedicel and corolla tube, pubescent corona, and follicles with short projections, and from the second by its mixed indumentum, inflorescence with peduncle, greenpurple corolla, rounded 5-lobed corona, shorter pollinia, and follicles with short prickles. /// Um novo nome, Matelea endressiae Goes & Fontella,  apresentado como substituto para Gonolobus cordatus Malme, e uma nova espcie, M. demuneri Goes & Fontella, do Estado do Esprito Santo, Brasil,  descrita e ilustrada. Matelea demuneri  similar a M. endressiae e M. maritima (Jacquin) Woodson subsp. cearensis (Malme) Fontella, porm se distingue da primeira por apresentar pedicelos e tubo da corola menores, corona pubescente e folculos com projees menores, e da segunda, por apresentar indumento misto, inflorescncias pedunculadas, corola verde-arroxeada, corona aneliforme 5-lobada, polnias menores e folculos com projees menores.
20406128|Three new fasciculate flowered species of Salacia L. (Celastraceae, Hippocrateoideae) from the Amazon basin are described: S. acevedoi Lombardi is distinguished by its small flowers, stamens with short filaments, disc connate to ovary, and size of fruits; S. negrensis Lombardi differs by its habit, characteristics and shape of leaves, flower diameter, features and size of stamens, and number of ovules; and S. odorata Lombardi is characterized by its long pedicels, conical flower buds, strongly adherent petals, and flat disc with fimbriate outer border. /// So descritas para a bacia amaznica trs novas espcies de Salacia L. (Celastraceae, Hippocrateoideae) com inflorescncias fasciculadas, S. acevedoi Lombardi a qual se distingue pelos estames pequenos com filetes curtos, disco conado ao ovrio e pelo tamanho dos frutos; S. negrensis Lombardi difere pelo hbito, caractersticas e forma das folhas, dimetro da flor, caractersticas e tamanho dos estames, e nmero de vulos; e S. odorata Lombardi  caracterizada pelos pedicelos longos, botes florais cnicos, ptalas fortemente aderentes e disco achatado com margem externa fimbriada.
10.2307/3392245|A new species, Aristida tuitensis from El Tuito, Jalisco, Mexico, is described and illustrated, and its distribution and ecology are discussed. It belongs to Aristida sect. Streptachne and is distinguished from A. schiedeana by its spreading inflorescence, shorter spikelets, and the lack of dentate glumes, and from A. hintonii by its inflorescence shape, the internode, and sheath length. A table summarizing the differences and similarities among the three species is presented.
10.2307/3393120|Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie de Schwartzia, S. parrae. La nueva especie se conoce nicamente de la Cordillera Central Andina de Colombia (Departamento de Antioquia). Se presenta una clave para distinguir las especies colombianas de Schwartzia. /// A new species of Schwartzia, S. parrae, is described and illustrated. The new species is known only from the Andean Central Cordillera of Colombia (Departamento de Antioquia). A key for the Colombian species of Schwartzia is provided.
40300924|A new species, Petrocosmea xingyiensis Y. G. Wei & F. Wen, is described and illustrated from Maling Gorge, Xingyi County, Guizhou Province, China. The new species differs from related species in the genus by its narrowly oblanceolate leaves that are pubescent on both surfaces.
10.2307/3393570| We describe and illustrate a new species of Solanum (Solanaceae) from southern Brazil. Solanum pseudodaphnopsis belongs to Solanum sect. Geminata and grows in the restinga, a special sandy coastal vegetation complex, in Paran and Santa Catarina states. It resembles morphologically S. cassioides L. B. Smith & Downs and S. arenarium Sendtner, but it can be distinguished from the former by the presence of obovate and leathery leaves and from the latter by its dendritic-echinoid trichomes and narrower leaves. /// Ns descrevemos e ilustramos uma nova espcie de Solanum (Solanaceae) do sul do Brasil. Solanum pseudodaphnopsis pertence a Solanum sect. Geminata e cresce nos solos arenosos da regio costeira do Paran e Santa Catarina. Assemelha-se morfologicamente a Solanum cassioides L. B. Smith & Downs e a S. arenarium Sendtner, podendo ser distinta da primeira espcie pelas folhas obovadas e coriceas e da segunda pelos tricomas dendrtico-equinides e folhas mais estreitas. 
3393489| Se ilustra y describe a Magnolia krusei (Magnoliaceae), una especie nueva del estado de Guerrero, Mxico. Magnolia krusei es afn a M. iltisiana A. Vzquez y a M. tamaulipana A. Vzquez, pero difiere de stas por presentar flores y folculos de menor tamao. Tambin se incluye una clave dicotmica para distinguir las especies afines a este nuevo taxn. /// Magnolia krusei (Magnoliaceae), a new species from the state of Guerrero, Mexico, is illustrated and described. It is related to M. iltisiana A. Vzquez and M. tamaulipana A. Vzquez, but differs from these by its smaller flowers and follicles. A dichotomous key for distinguishing all related taxa to this new taxon is also included. 
27765211|Eight new species of Lauraceae from Andean South America and Panama are described and illustrated. Two belong to the genus Cinnamomum Schaeffer, C. lanigerum van der Werff and C. formicarium van der Werff & Lorea-Hernndez, both from Ecuador; one species belongs to Ocotea Aublet, O. pacifica van der Werff, from Ecuador and Colombia; and five belong to Pleurothyrium Nees, P. bilocellatum van der Werff, P. cordatum van der Werff, and P. obscurinerve van der Werff from Ecuador, P. pascoense van der Werff from Peru, and P. triflorum van der Werff from Panama.
20406259|Three species of farinose ferns traditionally included in the large, polymorphic genus Cheilanthes Swartz are transferred to the genus Notholaena R. Brown as N. aureolina Yatskievych & Arbelez, N. jaliscana Yatskievych & Arbelez, and N. ochracea (Hooker) Yatskievych & Arbelez. Additionally, a Central American novelty is described as a new species, N. montielae Yatskievych & Arbelez, with a type from Nicaragua.
20406214|Quadrella incana (Kunth) Iltis & Cornejo is transferred from Capparis L. to Quadrella (DC.) J. Presl, and the name is lectotypified. The taxon occurs from southeastern Texas, south to Mexico, Guatemala, and northern Honduras. /// Quadrella incana (Kunth) Iltis & Cornejo es transferida desde Capparis L. a Quadrella (DC.) J. Presl, y su lectotipo es aqu designado. Esta especie se encuentra distribuida desde el sudeste de Texas y hacia el sur, a travs de Mxico y Guatemala hasta el norte de Honduras.
10.2307/3392265|Muhlenbergia aguascalientensis, from Sierra Fra, Aguascalientes, Mexico, is described and illustrated. A tabular comparison with its related species, M. durangensis Herrera and M. michisensis Herrera & Peterson, is given.
3393506| The Chinese endemic Stachyurus yunnanensis Franchet is lectotypified. Stachyurus callosus C. Y. Wu ex S. K. Chen, also endemic to China, is referred to synonymy of S. yunnanensis based on the two entities having inseparable leaf characters and a sympatric distribution. Stachyurus esquirolii H. Lveill is regarded as a synonym of S. yunnanensis, as in Li's and Lauener's previous treatments of this taxon. 
10.2307/3391837|Siparuna croatii and S. palenquensis from central and Pacific Ecuador, respectively, S. gigantotepala from Pacific Colombia and Ecuador, and S. harlingii from the eastern Andean slopes of Colombia and Ecuador are described, illustrated, and discussed as to their relationships with morphologically similar species.
10.2307/3392067|Se presenta la descripcin e ilustracin de tres especies nuevas de la familia Piperaceae, Peperomia alwynii, Piper curvinervium y Piper dolichostylum, las cuales crecen hacia el sur de la regin andina colombiana; as mismo se discuten para cada especie sus relaciones de parentesco, distribucin geogrfica, ecologa y hbitat. /// Three new species of Piperaceae, Peperomia alwynii, Piper curvinervium, and Piper dolichostylum, from the southern Andes region of Colombia, are described and illustrated, and their relationships, geographical distribution, habitat, and ecology are discussed.
10.2307/3391765|Paulownia catalpifolia, previously invalidly described, is validated.
20406268|The new species Anthurium loretense Croat was invalidly published in 1991, lacking a Latin diagnosis. This oversight is corrected with the validation of the name.
10.2307/3391647|Two new species are described, Passiflora kawensis of subgenus Astrophea and Passiflora exura of subgenus Passiflora. Both species are common in northeastern French Guiana on Montagne de Kaw. Passiflora kawensis has an umbrellashaped structure on the androgynophore shared with only three species from southern Brazil and Bolivia. Passiflora exura is easily distinguished from related species by the structure of the corona and the size of the awn on the sepals.
10.2307/3391921|A new combination is made in the fern genus Polystichum: P. crinulosum (Desvaux) J. P. Roux.
10.2307/3393365| Graptopetalum glassii from Colima, Mexico, is described and illustrated. It is closely related to G. pentandrum, differing in being smaller and in having a herbaceous habit and a larger number of oblanceolate pale green leaves. Graptopetalum pentandrum subsp. superbum is raised to species rank. Characters that support the change of status are a larger size of the plants, a squamose surface of the stem, a pink-violet color of the rosette, oblong-obovate leaves, and a profusely branched inflorescence. /// Graptopetalum glassii de Colima, Mxico, es descrita e ilustrada. Est cercanamente relacionada con G. pentandrum; sin embargo, difiere en poseer un menor tamao, un hbito herbceo con un mayor nmero de hojas oblanceoladas de color verde mas plido. Graptopetalum pentandrum subsp. superbum es elevada a nivel de especie. Caracteres que apoyan el cambio de estatus son un tamao mas grande, una superficie del tallo escamosa, un color rosa-violeta de la roseta, hojas oblongo-obovadas y un mayor nmero de ramas en la inflorescencia. 
40300908|Draba calcifuga Lesica (Brassicaceae) is an alpine species of the Rocky Mountains of Montana, Idaho, and Wyoming, U. S. A., restricted to noncalcareous soils. It has been confused with the sympatric D. oligosperma Hooker because both species are similar in habit, leaf size and shape, fruit size and shape, style length, and in the presence of doubly pectinate trichomes on the leaves. However, D. calcifuga has cilia and pectinate trichomes with crisped branches that do not occur in D. oligosperma. Draba calcifuga demonstrates low pollen stainability throughout its range, suggesting it is agamospermous. Although D. oligosperma is agamospermous over most of its range, it is sexual in its area of sympatry with D. calcifuga, suggesting that the latter may be derived from the former. Draba calcifuga is described and compared to four other species with doubly pectinate trichomes from the Rocky Mountain region.
10.2307/3391989|A new species of Crateva L. is described from the Marojejy Massif in northeast Madagascar. It differs from previously described species in having simple obovate leaves with a rounded apex. The species is deciduous and flowers soon after the leaves emerge, indicating that it is a member of section Siccoruba Jacobs.
20406041|Two species new to Solanum sect. Basarthrum (Bitter) Bitter are described. Solanum perlongistylum G. J. Anderson, Martine, Prohens & Nuez and S. catilliflorum G. J. Anderson, Martine, Prohens & Nuez are narrowly distributed species from southern Peru in the group that includes the Andean domesticate S. muricatum Aiton and are very closely related to the widespread S. caripense Dunal. Solanum catilliflorum bears small, dish-shaped flowers (for which it is named) and is self-compatible and autogamous, with short styles like those that characterize all self-compatible species in this section. It also has a low pollen:ovule ratio, which is characteristic of self-compatible species in the group. On the other hand, the style of the self-incompatible S. perlongistylum is the longest in the group, and its flowers have a higher pollen:ovule ratio. Both species are diploid at n = 12. We hypothesize that these two species may be peripheral isolates from the widespread and variable S. caripense.
10.2307/3391910|Secamonopsis microphylla sp. nov., from dry southern Madagascar, is described, illustrated, and compared to S. madagascariensis Jumelle, the only other known species of this genus.
10.2307/3391896|A new species, Stenopadus andicola (Asteraceae: Mutisieae), is described from the Cordillera del Condor, Ecuador. It is the first member of the genus reported outside the Guayana Highland and is a new generic record for Ecuador. Stenopadus andicola is placed in section Stenopadus.
20406283|We describe two new varieties of the North American species complex Packera paupercula (Michaux) . Lve & D. Lve (Asteraceae, Senecioneae): variety savannarum R. R. Kowal from the American upper Midwest and variety appalachiana A. M. Mahoney from the southeastern United States. The new combination P. paupercula var. pseudotomentosa (Mackenzie & Bush) R. R. Kowal from the Midwest is also established. Because of their pubescence, these varieties have been previously included within a broadly circumscribed P. plattensis (Nuttall) W. A. Weber &  Lve. Their recognition is based on a biosystematic study, which included morphological and ecological observations in the field and in a transplant garden experiment, and chromosome counts.
10.2307/3391469|Claytonia here includes all annual Montia species with principally basal leaves and scapiform inflorescences bearing one pair of free or fused cauline leaves. Three morphologically distinctive diploids define the basic species of a polymorphic polyploid complex formerly named C. perfoliata sensu lato. In this complex, we propose two new subspecies, C. perfoliata subsp. intermontana and C. parviflora subsp. grandiflora, and four subspecific combinations. A perfoliate-leaved subspecies of C. exigua is newly recognized.
43288935|Erigeron pacalis Bjrk (Asteraceae) is a new species found only in the Peace River Grasslands of northeastern British Columbia, Canada. Its characteristics (short stature, leathery leaves, vestiture of mixed glandular and nonglandular hairs, and white rays) distinguish it from E. glabellus Nutt. and E. asper Nutt., the latter of which has appeared only in synonymy under E. glabellus according to most recent authors, but which shows consistent distinctions that merit its resurrection from synonymy.
10.2307/3392054|Study of Caesalpiniaceae collections from the Venezuelan Guayana has revealed the first known occurrences of Jacqueshuberia in the region, with two new species, J. splendens from Cerro Aracamuni in southern Amazonas state and J. pustulata from the Ro Autana watershed in northern Amazonas state. /// El estudio de colecciones de Caesalpiniaceae de la Guayana venezolana ha resultado en el primer reporte del gnero Jacqueshuberia de la regin, con dos especies nuevas, J. splendens de Cerro Aracamuni, al sur del Estado Amazonas, y J. pustulata de la cuenca del ro Autana al norte del Estado Amazonas.
10.2307/3392013|Randia nicaraguensis Lorence & Dwyer from Nicaragua is described and illustrated. Two new combinations are proposed for Mesoamerican Gardenieae: Randia genipifolia (Standley & Steyermark) Lorence, based on Duroia genipifolia Standley & Steyermark, and Randia armata (Swartz) DC. subsp. panamensis (Standley) Lorence, based on Randia panamensis Standley.
10.2307/3392246|A new section of Ouratea, section Caducae Sastre, and eight new species of Ouratea from Venezuela and adjacent countries are described: O. pendulosepala Sastre (sect. Cardiocarpae), O. oligantha Steyermark ex Sastre (sect. Cardiocarpae), O. apurensis Sastre (sect. Ouratea), O. paratatei Sastre (sect. Ouratea), O. cidiana Sastre (sect. Ouratella), O. guriensis Sastre (sect. Ouratella), O. pseudoguildingii Sastre (sect. Ouratella), and O. squamata Sastre (sect. Ouratella).
10.2307/3392949|Described is Sphaeralcea gierischii N. D. Atwood & S. L. Welsh, sp. nov., which is distinguished from S. rusbyi by the glabrous or glabrescent herbage, with few or no stellate hairs confined to the leaf margin, larger (15-25 mm long) flowers, and restricted range and habitat, and from S. moorei in the 3- to 5-parted, narrow leaf lobes, bright green leaves sometimes suffused with red-purple, and different habitat. Two varieties are evaluated at the species level within Sphaeralcea based on different morphological features, geographical distribution, and habitat: S. moorei (S. L. Welsh) N. D. Atwood & S. L. Welsh, stat. nov., and S. fumariensis (S. L. Welsh & N. D. Atwood) N. D. Atwood & S. L. Welsh, stat. nov. A key to the closely related taxa is included, and each of the taxa is provided with a description. The geographical distribution and ecology in southern Utah and northern Arizona, U.S.A., are also discussed.
20406011|Cyrtopodium macedoi, a new species (Orchidaceae, Cymbidieae, Cyrtopodiinae) from the cerrado vegetation of central Brazil, is described and illustrated. The species was first collected in 1951 but was subsequently misidentified as C. vernum. The principal distinctive character for C. macedoi is the basal portion of the corolla lip and the region between the lateral lobes, which is strongly deflexed and almost parallel to the lip midlobe. Cyrtopodium macedoi appears to be rare and so far known only from two sites in the Tringulo Mineiro region of the western part of the state of Minas Gerais in southeastern Brazil. /// Cyrtopodium macedoi, uma nova espcie (Orchidaceae, Cymbidieae, Cyrtopodiinae) do Cerrado do Brasil central,  descrito e ilustrado. A espcie foi coletada pela primeira vez em 1951, mas identificada erroneamente como C. vernum. A principal caracterstica distintiva da espcie  a base e a regio da corola entre os lobos laterais do labelo fortemente deflexa, quase paralela ao lobo mediano. A espcie parece ser rara e at o momento, conhecida de apenas duas localidades na regio do Tringulo Mineiro, no oeste estado de Minas Gerais, no sudeste do Brasil.
40856293|A new species of Leguminosae (Caesalpinioideae), Browneopsis sanintiae Silverst., is described from the northern end of the Cauca Valley in the department of Risaralda, in western Colombia. It resembles the Amazonian species B. ucayalina Huber, but differs in having one vestigial petal or lacking petals (vs. three to four vestigial petals in B. ucalayina), fewer stamens, and pollen usually monoporate (vs. tetraporate in B. ucayalina). This is the first report of the genus Browneopsis Huber from the Cauca Valley. Una nueva especie de Leguminosae (Caesalpinioideae), Browneopsis sanintiae Silverst., se describe del extremo septentrional del valle geogrfico del ro Cauca, en el departamento de Risaralda, en la parte occidental de Colombia. La especie nueva se asemeja a la especie amaznica solo ptalo rudimentario la prdida total de los ptalos (vs. tres a cuatro ptalos rudimentarios en B. ucayalina), menos estambres, y polen usualmente monoporado (vs. tetraporado en B. ucayalina). Este es el primer reporte del gnero Browneopsis Huber del valle geogrfico del ro Cauca.
10.2307/3393510|The Tajikistan endemic Arabidopsis bactriana is transferred to Dielsiocharis, a genus previously recognized as monotypic. Detailed description of A. bactriana is provided, and a key distinguishing the two species of Dielsiocharis is given.
10.2307/3392188|A taxonomic revision of Paeonia in Xizang is presented, and of the five species recognized, P. ludlowii, P. sterniana, P. delavayi, P. emodi, and P. veitchii, the first two are endemic. A new combination, P. ludlowii (Stern & Taylor) Hong, is proposed. A considerable search for P. moutan var. atava in its type locality led to the conclusion that the taxon is P. rockii subsp. rockii, a native of north-central China introduced to Xizang by Buddhist monks. Reproductive and other biological features of the woody P. ludlowii and P. delavayi are described. A key to species is given.
3393494|Two undescribed species of Hypericum (Clusiaceae) have been found during floristic research in Korea. Hypericum chejuense S.-J. Park & K.-J. Kim and H. jeongjocksanense S.-J. Park & K.-J. Kim are described and illustrated from Cheju Island in southern Korea and Jeongjock Mountain in southeastern Korea, respectively. Hypericum chejuense and H. jeongjocksanense are easily distinguished from the closely related H. erectum Thunberg ex Murray and H. laxum (Blume) Koidzumi, respectively, by their habit, petal and sepal size, inflorescence type, style length, stylar hair distribution, leaf base shape, stem branching pattern, sepal size, and DNA sequence from the nuclear ITS regions.
10.2307/3393255|As part of a revision of Chinese Pittosporum Banks ex Gaertner for the forthcoming account of Pittosporaceae in the Flora of China, Volume 9, it is necessary to publish seven new combinations. All of the taxa were originally described at specific rank. Six are morphologically similar to five other species, under which they are reduced to varieties: Pittosporum balansae Aug. DC. var. chatterjeeanum (Gowda) Zhi Y. Zhang & Turland, comb. et stat. nov., Pittosporum glabratum Lindley var. wenxianense (G. H. Wang & Y. S. Lian) Zhi Y. Zhang & Turland, comb. et stat. nov., Pittosporum kweichowense Gowda var. buxifolium (K. M. Feng ex C. Y. Wu) Zhi Y. Zhang & Turland, comb. et stat. nov., Pittosporum kweichowense var. podocarpifolium (C. Y. Wu) Zhi Y. Zhang & Turland, comb. et stat. nov., Pittosporum podocarpum Gagnepain var. hejiangense (H. Y. Su) Zhi Y. Zhang & Turland, comb. et stat. nov., and Pittosporum rehderianum Gowda var. ternstroemioides (C. Y. Wu) Zhi Y. Zhang & Turland, comb. et stat. nov. The remaining new combination is Pittosporum pentandrum (Blanco) Merrill var. formosanum (Hayata) Zhi Y. Zhang & Turland, comb. nov., which is the correct name at varietal rank under P. pentandrum when P. formosanum Hayata var. formosanum and variety hainanense Gagnepain are considered to be synonyms.
3393329| Three new species of Bomarea (Alstroemeriaceae), B. caucana, B. euryantha, and B. straminea, found during a revision of the genus for the Flora of Colombia, are described and illustrated and their relationships discussed. /// Se describen e ilustran tres nuevas especies de Bomarea (Alstroemeriaceae), B. caucana, B. euryantha y B. straminea, encontradas durante la revisin del gnero para la Flora de Colombia, y se discuten sus relaciones. 
10.2307/3392239|Nolina parryi subsp. wolfii is shown to be a synonym of N. parryi subsp. parryi. Consequently, N. parryi subsp. parryi sensu Munz has been misinterpreted and is without a name. Nolina cismontana is proposed as the name for this undescribed taxon.
10.2307/3392127|The genus Rhodocalyx is reduced to synonymy under Prestonia. A new combination, P. erecta, is proposed here.
10.2307/3392142|New combinations in Arnica L. and Monolopia DC. are made in light of evidence from a phylogenetic study of helenioid Heliantheae that each of the two genera is paraphyletic. Transfers herein of Whitneya dealbata A. Gray to Arnica and Lembertia congdonii (A. Gray) Greene to Monolopia allow for circumscriptions of Arnica and Monolopia that better reflect phylogenetic relationships.
27765200|Recientes estudios de Asclepiadoideae (Apocynaceae) del sur y oeste de Mxico permiti el descubrimiento de un nuevo taxn que se describe e ilustra como Gonolobus spiranthus Jurez-Jaimes, W. D. Stevens & Lozada-Prez. Se caracteriza por tener un ginostegio conspicuamente estipitado, una corola tubular de ms de 12 mm de largo e inflada en la base, los lbulos de la corola fuertemente espiralados, y apndices dorsales de las anteras triangular-sagitados y carnosos. La ausencia de un anillo faucial en la corola la incluye en el subgnera Pseudolachnostoma Woodson. Recent studies of the Asclepiadoideae (Apocynaceae) in southern and western Mexico have revealed a new species here described and illustrated as Gonolobus spiranthus Jurez-Jaimes, W. D. Stevens & Lozada-Prez. This species is distinguished by having a tubular corolla more than 12 mm long that is inflated at the base, strongly spiraled corolla lobes, and dorsal anther appendages that are triangular and sagittate as well as fleshy. The lack of a faucal annulus in the corolla includes it in the subgenus Pseudolachnostoma Woodson.
10.2307/3391480|The following new taxa of ferns, Asplenium barclayanum, A. salicifolium var. aequilaterale, A. seileri, Diplazium atirrense var. lobulatum, D. chimuense, D. chiriquense, D. croatianum, D. gomezianum, D. hammelianum, D. matudae, D. moranii, D. panamense, D. tutense, have been revealed through research carried out in the preparation of contributions for Flora Mesoamericana.
10.2307/3393188|A colored painting from the Sess and Mocio expedition serves as the holotype for the validly published name Grindelia angustifolia DC. ex Dunal, 1819 (= Grindelia dunalii Sprengel, nom. nov., 1825; non Grindelia angustifolia Kunth, in HBK, 1818). The illustration represents the species heretofore identified as Keerlia linearifolia DC., 1836 (= Gutierrezia alamanii A. Gray, nom. nov., 1852; non Gutierrezia linearifolia Lagasca & Segura, 1816), which occurs in the south-central Mexican states of Mxico and Morelos. Gutierrezia dunalii (Sprengel) Nesom, comb. nov., is proposed as the earliest valid name for this species. Gutierrezia megalocephala (Fernald) Nesom is proposed for a closely related entity (Gutierrezia alamanii var. megalocephala (Fernald) Lane = Xanthocephalum megalocephalum Fernald).
10.2307/3392143|New combinations and new genera for species in Hemizonia DC., Madia Molina, and Raillardiopsis Rydberg allow for a revised, practical taxonomy of Madiinae that better reflects phylogenetic relationships. Reinstatement of Anisocarpus Nuttall, Centromadia Greene, Deinandra Greene, and Hemizonella A. Gray, abandonment of Raillardiopsis Rydberg, and recognition of four new genera (Carlquistia, Harmonia, Jensia, Kyhosia) for tarweed lineages without available generic names result from changes in circumscription based on monophyletic groups.
3393288|Described as new are Eriocaulon huanchacanum, a caulescent rheophyte endemic to Bolivia with capillary leaves and non-aerenchymatous roots, and Syngonanthus dichroanthus of Brazil and Bolivia, a rosulate annual with filiform leaves and staminate and pistillate flowers of contrasting colors. Syngonanthus latifolius of Mato Grosso, Brazil, based on S. gracilis var. latifolius Moldenke, is dimorphic both for flower color and size, and is here raised to species rank due to these previously undescribed characters.
3393292|Alyogyne cravenii Fryxell (Malvaceae) is transferred to Hibiscus cravenii (Fryxell) B. E. Pfeil & Craven on account of character information from the chloroplast, nucleus, and morphology. These data do not place A. cravenii with its congeners A. hakeifolia, A. huegelii, and A. pinoniana, instead placing it with H. sects. Bombicella and Hibiscus.
3393447| Following the results of a recent phylogenetic study showing that the genus Jacquinia is paraphyletic, the following new combinations in the genus Bonellia are made (all by Sthl & Kllersj): B. albiflora (Lundell), B. brevifolia (Urban), B. flammea (Millspaugh ex Mez), B. frutescens (Miller), B. lippoldii (Lepper), B. longifolia (Standley), B. loeflingii (Carrasquel), B. macrocarpa (Cavanilles), B. macrocarpa (Cavanilles) Sthl & Kllersj subsp. pungens (A. Gray), B. macrocarpa (Cavanilles) Sthl & Kllersj subsp. panamensis (Lundell), B. montana (Sthl), B. mucronata (Roemer & Schultes), B. nervosa (Presl), B. nitida (Sthl), B. paludicula (Standley), B. pringlei (Bartlett), B. pauciflora (Sthl & F. Axelrod), B. shaferi (Urban), B. seleriana (Urban & Loesner ex Mez), B. sprucei (Mez), B. stenophylla (Urban), and B. umbellata (A. DC). The genus Bonellia is distinguished from Jacquinia s. str. by its mostly orange flowers and alternate leaves, flattened seeds that are incompletely covered by placental tissue, and two-layered testa. A key to the genera of the Theophrastaceae is presented. 
3393311|Didymoplexiella hainanensis X. H. Jin & S. C. Chen, a new species of Orchidaceae from Hainan, China, is described and illustrated. The new species is related to D. ornata (Ridley) Garay, from which it differs by the dorsal sepal briefly connate with the petals, the lateral sepals connate 1/4 to 1/3 at base, an articulate lip, and larger lateral lobes.
27765194|Preparation of an account of Melaleuca L. (Myrtaceae) for Flora of Australia resulted in the recognition of nine new species and three subspecies of Melaleuca. The following are newly described from Australia: from Queensland: M. hemisticta S. T. Blake ex Craven, M. lazaridis Craven, M. montis-zamiae Craven, M. phratra Craven, M. pyramidalis Craven, M. quercina Craven, M. viminalis (Solander ex Gaertner) Byrne subsp. rhododendron Craven, M. williamsii Craven subsp. fletcheri Craven; from New South Wales: M. megalongensis Craven & S. M. Douglas, M. serpentina Craven, M. williamsii subsp. synoriensis Craven; and from Queensland and New South Wales: M. sabrina Craven. The recently described Callistemon wimmerensis Marriott & G. W. Carr is transferred to Melaleuca as M. wimmerensis (Marriott & G. W. Carr) Craven.
3393336| Se describe e ilustra a Calochortus mendozae Espejo, Lpez-Ferrari & Ceja, especie conocida hasta ahora del municipio de San Nicols Tolentino, en el estado de San Luis Potos, Mxico, en donde crece sobre taludes yesosos, en vegetacin de matorrral xerfito. La nueva especie se ubica dentro de la subseccin Ghiesbreghtiani de la seccin Cyclobothra del gnero Calochortus y la especie ms cercana al nuevo taxon es C. hintonii Bullock ex Ownbey, con la cual se compara. /// Calochortus mendozae Espejo, Lpez-Ferrari & Ceja, a new species from the municipality of San Nicols Tolentino in the state of San Luis Potos, Mexico, is described and illustrated. The new species grows on gypseous soils in xerophytic scrub. Calochortus mendozae is placed in section Cyclobothra subsection Ghiesbreghtiani and is closely related to C. hintonii Bullock ex Ownbey, with which it is compared. 
20406351|During preparation of the taxonomic treatment of Elaphoglossaceae for the Flora of China, Volume 3, it was noticed that the following nomenclatural actions were necessary for the forthcoming account of Elaphoglossum Schott ex J. Smith: the new combination E. luzonicum Copeland var. mcclurei (Ching) F. G. Wang & F. W. Xing is made, and E. spongophyllum P. R. Bell ex Holttum is newly synonymized to it. In addition, E. luzonicum var. mcclurei is lectotypified, and E. sinii C. Christensen ex Wu is epitypified.
10.2307/3391903|Trifolium jokerstii (Leguminosae, Papilionoideae), a new species from Butte County, California, is described and illustrated. It is morphologically similar to T. barbigerum and T. grayi, from which it differs in stipule shape, flower color, seed size, and lack of pubescence.
20406135|Bulbostylis medusae Prata, Reynders & Goetghebeur from Venezuela is fully described and illustrated. This species differs from all other South American Bulbostylis Kunth species by the combination of long-ciliated leaf sheaths, leaf apices, bracts, and spikelet axes. The new species resembles B. sellowiana (Kunth) Palla, and a comparison of the two species is made.
10.2307/3391838|Two heretofore unknown species of Lesquerella are described. These occur in limited areas in the mountains of central and western Montana. Both species, here named L. lesicii and L. pulchella, occur in patches of limestone-derived soils and rubble that are conspicuously barren of trees and shrubs and other types of plant cover, or on the borders of such areas where the limestone detritus meets soils and rubble of crystalline rocks. Also, they are often found in open areas in sparse stands of low-growing trees or shrubs.
10.2307/3391931|Triticum aestivum subsp. yunnanense King ex S. L. Chen from Qinghai Province, China, is described as new. In addition, a new combination in Psathyrostachys, 18 new combinations in Elymus, and 2 new combinations in Kengyilia are proposed.
3393294|Hyperacanthus mandenensis Rakotonasolo & A. P. Davis is described as a new species on the basis of its large corolla (10.5-16.5 cm long), included style, and thick fibrous fruit wall (6-10 mm thick). No other species of Hyperacanthus E. Meyer ex Bridson possess these characters: H. ambovombensis Rakotonasolo & A. P. Davis, H. amoenus (Sims) Bridson, H. grevei Rakotonasolo & A. P. Davis, and H. microphyllus (K. Schumann) Bridson all have small corolla tubes (less than 5 cm long), a style that is positioned more or less level with the corolla throat, and a thin non-fibrous fruit wall (less than 3 mm thick). Hyperacanthus mandenensis is restricted to the forests of Petriky, Mandena, and St. Luce, in an area corresponding to a proposed mining site, in southeastern Madagascar (Toliara Province). Using the IUCN Red List Category criteria, H. mandenensis is currently assessed as Endangered, although without appropriate conservation measures this species would easily become Critically Endangered, or even Extinct.
20406182|Eight new species of Stenospermation Schott and Xanthosoma Schott (Araceae) from Bajo Calima, Colombia, are described as new: Stenospermation ellipticum Croat & D. C. Bay, S. escobariae Croat & D. C. Bay, S. flavum Croat & D. C. Bay, S. glaucophyllum Croat & D. C. Bay, S. monsalvae Croat & D. C. Bay, S. velutinum Croat & D. C. Bay, Xanthosoma guttatum Croat & D. C. Bay, and X. hebetatum Croat & D. C. Bay. /// Ocho nuevas especies de Stenospermation Schott y Xanthosoma Schott (Araceae) de Bajo Calima, Colombia se describe como nueva: Stenospermation ellipticum Croat & D. C. Bay, S. escobariae Croat & D. C. Bay, S. flavum Croat & D. C. Bay, S. glaucophyllum Croat & D. C. Bay, S. monsalvae Croat & D. C. Bay, S. velutinum Croat & D. C. Bay, Xanthosoma guttatum Croat & D. C. Bay y X. hebetatum Croat & D. C. Bay.
10.2307/3392090|The plant long called Senecio new-combei Greene is a distinctive endemic of the Queen Charlotte Islands, B.C., Canada. Microcharacters, cytology, and gross morphology indicate its affinities with the tussilaginoid group of the Senecioneae and with the East Asian genus Sinosenecio. The new nomenclatural combination is made: Sinosenecio newcombei (Greene) J. P. Janovec & T. M. Barkley.
3393470| Se hace una relacin de las especies de Lonchocarpus sect. Lonchocarpus para Bolivia. De las cinco especies conocidas, cuatro resultaron nuevas para la ciencia. Se describen, ilustran y mapean Lonchocarpus lomentaceus, L. neei, L. riparius y L. sericophyllus, todas ellas endmicas a Bolivia. Las cinco especies de la sect. Lonchocarpus se contrastan en una clave dicotmica. /// An account of section Lonchocarpus of the genus Lonchocarpus for Bolivia is given. Of the five species found, four were new to science, all of them endemic to Bolivia, Lonchocarpus lomentaceus, L. neei, L. riparius, and L. sericophyllus are described, illustrated, and mapped. A key to distinguish the species of section Lonchocarpus is provided. 
10.2307/3391694|The distinguishing characters between the closely related Limonium chrysocomum and L. semenovii are given. The new combinations L. semenovii var. chrysocephalum and L. semenovii var. sedoides are proposed, and a key separating these varieties is presented.
20406131|Phacelia sonoitensis S. P. McLaughlin (Hydrophyllaceae) from Santa Cruz County, Arizona, U.S.A., is described and illustrated. The distinctive features of this species are its combination of pinnate leaves and several shallowly cymbiform seeds. The number of seeds per capsule (15 to 30) and seed morphology are not consistent with any currently recognized section of the genus. /// En este trabajo se describe e ilustra Phacelia sonoitensis S. P. McLaughlin (Hydrophyllaceae) del condado de Santa Cruz en Arizona, EE. UU. Las caractersticas distintivas son sus hojas pinnadas y varias semillas ligeramente cimbiformes. El nmero de semillas por cpsula (15 a 30) y la morfologa de las semillas no concuerdan con ninguna seccin del gnero reconocida actualmente.
20406344|Morphological and molecular analyses of Arceuthobium aureum Hawksworth & Wiens and A. globosum Hawksworth & Wiens (Viscaceae) demonstrated that these taxa are closely related but can be distinguished based on a few morphological differences, phenology, and host ranges. Therefore, the taxa previously treated under A. aureum are recombined under A. globosum: A. globosum subsp. aureum (Hawksworth & Wiens) Mathiasen and A. globosum subsp. petersonii (Hawksworth & Wiens) Mathiasen.
23259412|Pseudostellaria longipedicellata S. Lee, K. Heo & S. C. Kim is newly described from the Taebaek Mountain Range across three eastern provinces (i.e., Gangwon, Chungcheongbuk, and Gyeongsangbuk) of the Korean Peninsula. Pseudostellaria longipedicellata is similar to P. palibiniana (Takeda) Ohwi by having an open flower, glabrous pedicel, and slender taproots, but differs by its shorter, decumbent, and slender stems, oblanceolate leaves distally changing to elliptic or narrowly ovate, and the fertile pedicel that elongates to the ground when bearing fruit. A dichotomous key to the Korean species of Pseudostellaria Pax is provided in this paper. Also discussed are the major differences of P. longipedicellata from its congeners, and the new species' possible pollination and dispersal mechanisms.
10.2307/3391654|Vellozia stenocarpa Mello-Silva sp. nov. (Velloziaceae) is distinguished by very narrow fruits and quickly deciduous leaf blades. Morphoanatomic descriptions, illustrations, and comments on taxonomic relationships are presented. A new combination is made: Barbacenia riparia (N. L. Menezes & Mello-Silva) Mello-Silva. Three species are relegated to the synonymy of B. markgrafii SchulzeMenz, and the varieties of Vellozia marcescens L. B. Smith are merged. Distribution and morphological variation are discussed for each species.
20406222|Two new species, Saxifraga xiaozhongdianensis J. T. Pan and S. ludingensis J. T. Pan, from the Saxifragaceae in China are described and illustrated. Of these, S. xiaozhongdianensis is endemic to Zhongdian, Yunnan, and is related to S. brachyphylla Franchet. It differs from S. brachyphylla in the sepals adaxially dark brown glandular-villose and the petals basally subauriculate. Saxifraga ludingensis occurs in Luding, Sichuan, and is very similar to S. egregioides J. T. Pan and S. stellariifolia Franchet. It differs from S. egregioides in the stems brown glandular-villose, the cauline leaves adaxially brown glandular-villose, the sepals spreading in anthesis and abaxially brown glandular-villose, and the petals 5-veined. It differs from S. stellariifolia in the leaves cordate and abaxially glabrous, the sepals abaxially brown glandular-villose, and the petals 4-callose and 5-veined. Saxifraga xiaozhongdianensis and S. ludingensis are apparently endemic to western China and belong to Saxifraga sect. Ciliatae Haworth, emend. J. T. Pan.
10.2307/3391804|Bourreria rinconensis and Tournefortia isabellina are described as new from Costa Rica. Keys are provided to the Costa Rican species of Bourreria and the Central American species of Tournefortia sect. Cyphocema.
23259354|Based on specimen and literature studies of the fern genus Pteris L. from China (Pteridaceae), three species are lectotypified: P. dalhousieae Hook., P. esquirolii H. Christ, and P. henryi H. Christ. Distribution for P. dalhousieae, which is not found in China, is also provided.
10.2307/3391444|Studies of the Bromeliaceae have led to a reevaluation of the four-taxa Tillandsia adpressa Andr assemblage. Herbarium research and field studies show that three of the taxa in the assemblage should be recognized at the specific rank, while the remaining one should be transferred to subspecific status. All taxa are transferred to Racinaea as follows: R. adpressa (Andr) J. R. Grant, R. adpressa subsp. orthiantha (Standley) J. R. Grant, R. miniata (Rauh) J. R. Grant, and R. schumanniana (Wittmack) J. R. Grant. A discussion of the nomenclature, lists of exsiccatae, and a key to the taxa are provided.
10.2307/3393199|The new species Passiflora tarminiana differs from its closest relative by the character combination of very small acicular stipules and large reflexed petals and sepals. This species has escaped detection despite being widely cultivated in South America. Naturalized populations, particularly in Hawai'i, have created problems for conservation of the native flora. In Colombia it is more frequently adopted in industrial cultivation because of its unusual vigor and resistance to fungal diseases. /// La nueva especie Passiflora tarminiana difiere de su pariente ms cercano por la combinacin de caracteres de las estpulas aciculares muy pequeas y los ptalos y spalos grandes y reflexos. Esta especie ha escapado su descubrimiento a pesar de estar extensamente cultivada en Amrica del Sur. Las poblaciones naturalizadas, particularmente en Hawai, han creado problemas para la conservacin de la flora nativa. En Colombia se adopta mas frecuentemente en el cultivo industrial debido a su extremo vigor y resistencia a las enfermedades causadas por hongos.
10.2307/3391532|Ceradenia asthenophylla, C. aulaeifolia, and C. tristis are described from Mesoamerica, and their relationships are discussed. Fifteen species of Ceradenia are now known from the region; all are characterized by peculiar whitish glandular paraphyses and lack of hydathodes. Three new combinations are also made in the genus for Andean species: Ceradenia bishopii, Ceradenia intricata, and C. semiadnata.
10.2307/3391565|Ecological, morphological, and anatomical characters support the recognition of a section, designated here as Botrychium sect. Hiemobotrychium, distinct in the characters described from section Sceptridium. It is monotypic and based on B. lunarioides (Michaux) Sw.
43289111|Tropidia namasiae C. K. Liao, T. P. Lin & M. S. Tang, a new species of Tropidia Lindl. (Orchidaceae, Epidendroideae, Tropidieae) from the Namasia District in southwestern Taiwan, is described and illustrated. The species is mainly characterized by its subopposite and ovate to lanceolate leaves and dorsal sepals (3.5-4 mm), the smallest observed among species of Tropidia in Taiwan. The new species is closely related to T. angustifolia C. L. Yeh & C. S. Leou, but differs in leaf shape, size, and number as well as the number of flowers per raceme. Morphological similarities between these two species can be seen in the shapes of the floral lip and column, as well as lengths of the leaf blades. A key to the six species of Tropidia in Taiwan is also provided.
10.2307/3392089|Schizostylis has the floral synapomorphies of the African genus Hesperantha, including style branches dividing at the mouth of the floral tube, long laxly spreading style branches, and articulated anthers twisted to face inward. The basic chromosome number of Schizostylis, x = 13, is shared in Ixioideae by Hesperantha, Geissorhiza, and a few species of Romulea. Schizostylis then differs from Hesperantha only in its red flowers (occasionally pink) and, more importantly, in its root-stock, a short rhizome. Most species of Hesperantha have white or pink flowers, occasionally yellow or purple, and all have corms with hard woody tunics. We suggest that Schizostylis, which is semi-aquatic and grows along streams in seasonally or permanently waterlogged ground, has acquired a rhizome secondarily by loss of the corm. Neither the rhizome nor the red flower is sufficient grounds to warrant generic separation from Hesperantha.
20406285|Se describe e ilustra una especie nueva para la ciencia, Setaria carinata S. Nozawa & Pensiero, proveniente de Venezuela. Setaria carinata difiere de las especies afines principalmente por poseer 9 a 10 setas por espiguilla, la ornamentacin y lo fuertemente carinado de la lemma superior, y plea inferior angosta. Se presenta una clave para discriminar entre especies afines. /// A new species from Venezuela, Setaria carinata S. Nozawa & Pensiero, is described and illustrated. Setaria carinata differs from closely related species by the number of bristles (nine to 10 per spikelet), the ornamentation of the strongly carinate upper lemma, and its narrow lower palea. An identification key to discriminate between similar species is presented.
20406088|For the forthcoming florula of the Ro Cenepa area in the Department of Amazonas, Peru, the following seven new species of ferns (Pteridophyta) are described: Asplenium eutecnum (Aspleniaceae); Cyathea thelypteroides and C. windischiana (Cyatheaceae); Megalastrum mollis (Dryopteridaceae); Tectaria atropurpurea and T. microsora (Dryopteridaceae); and Thelypteris berlinii (Thelypteridaceae). A new combination is made for Cyathea reginae (Cyatheaceae), which also occurs in this same area; this was previously recognized as a variety of Cyathea macrosora and lacks a name at species rank.
23259345|Tetrorchidium brevifolium Standl. & Steyerm. is reported for the first time from Panama and T. trichotocarpum McPherson is described, differing from those of its congeners also furnished with a 3-carpellate gynoecium and a glabrous cuplike pistillate disk, by its combination of subentire leaves, small petiolar glands, small stipules, near absence of pistillate bracteal glands, densely pubescent ovary, and occurrence in central Panama. A key to the six species of Tetrorchidium Poepp. (Euphorbiaceae) now known to occur in Panama is presented.
10.2307/3393123|Pectis hassleri and P. pumila are new species, the former from the Gran Chaco area of Paraguay and the latter from southwestern Ecuador and northwestern Peru. Pectis hassleri differs from P. odorata by leaves that are glandular-punctate on the adaxial as well as the abaxial surfaces, by longer and wider ligules of the ray florets, and by ray pappi of awns and shorter bristles. Pectis pumila differs from the closely related P. arida by its wider leaves and by its sessile or subsessile capitula with campanulate involucres and obovate phyllaries. A hexaploid chromosome count of 2n = 36<sub>II</sub> is newly reported for P. pumila.
10.2307/3391428|Ericentrodea davidsmithii from Bolivia and E. ramirezii from Colombia are described. A key is provided for the six known species of the Andean genus Ericentrodea.
20406289|The new species Leucas sivadasaniana Sunojkumar (Lamiaceae), collected from the Kudachadri Hills of Karnataka in Peninsular India, is described and illustrated. It is related to L. beddomei (Hooker f.) Sunojkumar & P. Mathew, L. eriostoma Hooker f., and L. lamiifolia Desfontaines, from which the new species differs in having broadly cuneate leaves, long and densely villous bracteoles, a nonciliate calyx mouth, and triangular teeth. This species is included in Leucas sect. Astrodon Bentham.
40300930|Weberbauera arequipa Al-Shehbaz & Montesinos (Brassicaceae), a new species from Peru, is described and illustrated. It is distinguished from the other species of Weberbauera Gilg & Muschler by having ebracteate racemes, persistent sepals and petals, 4-seeded fruits, and a few simple trichomes restricted to the petiolar bases. It is closely related to the Bolivian W. retropila Al-Shehbaz, but differs by the lack of branched trichomes and by having glabrous fruits, smaller flowers, and persistent petals. The IUCN status of the new species is determined as Data Deficient (DD).
10.2307/3392177|A new species of Citharexylum from Ecuador (C. grandiflorum) is described, and its relationships with related species are discussed. This new species can be distinguished from all others in the genus by its significantly larger corolla. /// Se describe una nueva especie del gnero Citharexylum de Ecuador (C. grandiflorum), y se discuten sus relaciones morfolgicas con las especies afines. Esta nueva especie posee las flores de mayor tamao conocidas dentro del gnero Citharexylum.
23259340|Arum cylindraceum Gasp. subsp. pitsyllianum Hadjik., Hand & G. Mans. (Araceae), a rare Cypriot endemic, is described as new. This diploid taxon differs from A. cylindraceum s. str. by the spathe tube that is whitish to greenish white internally with a pale purple horizontal strip just above the base and 34 cm long, the spadix, which is orange to orangish purple, and the anthers and connectives that are orange.
40300932|A new species of Meconopsis Viguier, M. biloba L. Z. An, Shu-Yan Chen & Y. S. Lian (Papaveraceae), from Gansu Province, China, is described and illustrated. The new species is related to M. quintuplinervia Regel by several similar characters, including the basal leaf rosettes, a solitary flower borne on the scape, and the blue petals and filaments. It differs from all known Meconopsis species in China in its bilobed petals.
10.2307/3391375|El estudio de las colecciones neotropicales de la familia Dilleniaceae en el Herbario del Jardn Botnico de Missouri, ha dado como resultado el hallazgo de tres nuevas especies del gnero Doliocarpus (D. chocoensis, D. dressleri, y D. pipolyi) y dos nuevas subespecies (D. dasyanthus subsp. robustus y D. spatulifolius subsp. tuberculatus), las cuales se describen en el presente artculo. Tambin se incluyen discusiones sobre su morfologa y sus relaciones con especies afines. /// Three new species, Doliocarpus chocoensis, D. dressleri, D. pipolyi, and two new subspecies, Doliocarpus dasyanthus subsp. robustus and D. spatulifolius subsp. tuberculatus are described and illustrated, and their phylogenetic relationships are discussed.
20406143|Passiflora venusta R. Vsquez & M. Delanoy, a new species of subgenus Passiflora L. ser. Laurifoliae Killip ex Cervi (Passifloraceae) is described and illustrated. Passiflora venusta differs from the other species belonging to this series by a unique combination of characteristics: flowers are large (ca. 12 cm diam.) and solitary; sepals and petals are white outside and red-purple inside; outside, sepal veins are white whereas petal veins are red; corona filaments are long and the outermost rank of filaments is noticeably shorter and thinner than the second rank; and fruits are 3.9-5.9 cm long with an endocarp no more than 0.5 cm thick. /// Se describe e ilustra Passiflora venusta R. Vsquez & M. Delanoy, una nueva especie del subgnero Passiflora L. ser. Laurifoliae Killip ex Cervi (Passifloraceae). Passiflora venusta se diferencia de otras especies de esta serie por una combinacin de caractersticas nicas: flores grandes y solitarias (ca. 12 cm diam.); spalos y ptalos blancos en la superficie externa, rojo-morados en la superficie interna; en la superficie externa, las nervaduras de los spalos son blancas mientras que las nervaduras de los ptalos son rojas; los filamentos internos de la corona son largos y los filamentos externos notoriamente ms cortos y delgados que los de la segunda fila; y las frutas tienen 3.9-5.9 cm de largo con un endocarpo de mximo 0.5 cm de ancho.
10.2307/3391926|Scaevola hobdyi is a newly described species from the West Maui Mountains, Hawaiian Islands. It is unusual among the other Hawaiian species of Scaevola sect. Scaevola in its linear leaves, apparently small flowers, and compact habit. It is not clear if this species represents a separate introduction from the Australian region or is a highly specialized derivative of the primary Hawaiian lineage. This imperfectly known species has been collected only once and is likely extinct.
10.2307/3391556|Based on studies of herbarium collections, fieldwork in Mexico and Central America, and palynological evidence, two species of Frantzia (F. panamensis and F. venosa) are transferred to Sechium, and a species in this genus (S. chinantlense) from the lowlands of Oaxaca is described as new. A key to the 10 species of Sechium is presented.
10.2307/3391471|Two new combinations at the subspecies level are proposed for Triantha occidentalis (S. Watson) Gates. A brief explanation is provided to account for their being made under this species name and not the presently more widely recognized Tofieldia occidentalis S. Watson.
40300925|Kengyilia zadoiensis S. L. Lu & Y. H. Wu, a new species of Gramineae from Zadoi County, Qinghai Province, China, is described and illustrated. The new species is related to K. kokonorica (Keng ex Keng & S. L. Chen) J. L. Yang, C. Yen & B. R. Baum. Kengyilia zadoiensis is distinguished by auricles on either side of the summit of leaf sheaths, glabrous glumes, muticous glumes that lack awns, lemmas that are 7-9 mm long, with an awn 4-10 mm, and anthers that are yellow-green, ca. 1 mm long.
10.2307/3392093|Exostema coulteri Hooker f. is transferred to the monotypic genus Syringantha Standley, and the new combination Syringantha coulteri (Hooker f.) T. McDowell is made. Analysis of leaf, flower, fruit, and pollen characters indicates the affinities of Syringantha are with the tribe Hamelieae. A description, illustrations, and micrographs of pollen and leaves of S. coulteri (Hooker f.) T. McDowell are provided.
43288946|Bauhinia hekouensis T. Y. Tu & D. X. Zhang (Leguminosae, Caesalpinioideae), a narrow endemic from Hekou County, Yunnan Province, in southwestern China, is described and illustrated. The new species can be diagnosed by a combination of characters, including tendrilled lianas; bilobed leaves with nine to 11 nerves; terminal, racemose inflorescences; spindle-shaped, slightly falcate flower buds with acute apices; tubular hypanthium; five freely reflexed sepals during anthesis; and large white flowers with oblanceolate, crisped petal blades. The general morphology suggests an affinity of the new species to series Clavatae (de Wit) Wunderlin of section Phanera (Lour.) Wunderlin in Bauhinia L., especially to the species B. coccnea (Lour.) DC. and B. nervosa (Wall, ex Benth.) Baker.
10.2307/3391640|A new species of Solarium sect. Cyphomandropsis (Solanaceae), S. hibernum, is described from the western part of Dept. Santa Cruz, Bolivia. Its strongly discolorous leaves densely covered below with white dendritic hairs distinguish it from the other species in the section.
10.2307/3391597|The presence of an autoicous species in Dicranodontium (Dicranodontium intermedium, species nova) further supports Williams's taxonomic decision to unite Atractylocarpus and Dicranodontium.
10.2307/3392151|Corallorhiza bentleyi Freudenstein is described from West Virginia, U.S.A. The species is cleistogamous and is currently known from only one population. It is most similar to C. striata Lindley, specifically variety involuta (Greenman) Freudenstein from southern Mexico, particularly in the structure of the labellum and size of the flower.
10.2307/3391603|The history and relationships of the mainly Caribbean genus Mosiera are discussed, and it is comprehensively described. Two Mexican and Mesoamerican species, Psidium contrerasii and P. ehrenbergii, are transferred to Mosiera.
20406253|Castelnavia noveloi C. T. Philbrick & C. P. Bove is distinguished from other species of Castelnavia Tulasne & Weddell (Podostemaceae) based on the production of stems arising perpendicular from the leaf petiole (petiolar stems) and the flattened rachis of the pinnate leaves. The new species is only known from rio Taquarussu, east of the town of Taquarussu, Tocantins, Brazil. /// Castelnavia noveloi se distingue das demais espcies de Castelnavia Tulasne & Weddell (Podostemaceae) por possuir caules que surgem perpendicularmente ao pecolo (caules peciolares) e raque das folhas pinadas achatada.  conhecida apenas no rio Taquarussu, a leste da cidade de Taquarussu, Tocantins, Brasil.
10.2307/3391437|A new species of Bonamia has been discovered in the Department of Chontales in Nicaragua. Bonamia douglasii is described and compared with other large-sepaled species in the world. This species differs from the other Central and North American members of the genus in being a woody climber with two cordate outer sepals larger than the inner three. /// Una especie nueva de Bonamia se ha descubierto en el Departamento de Chontales de Nicaragua. Bonamia douglasii se describe y se contrasta con las otras mundiales del gnero con sepalos grandes. Esta especie se difiere de las dems de la Amrica Central y Norte en que es una trepadora leosa con los dos spalos exteriores mayores que los interiores.
20406054|Manglietia albistaminea Law, R. Z. Zhou & X. S. Qin, a new species from China, is described and illustrated. This species is similar to M. fordiana Oliver and M. hainanensis Dandy, from which it differs by fine short hairs on both leaf surfaces, white stamens, and white pilose carpels.
20406304|Ilex guaramacalensis Cuello & Aymard (Aquifoliaceae), a new species from the Andean forests and pramos of Guaramacal massif in Venezuela, is described and illustrated, and its morphological relationships with allied species are discussed. Ilex guaramacalensis is morphologically similar to I. kunthiana Triana from the high mountains of Costa Rica and Panama, the Coastal Cordillera, and the Andes of Venezuela to Peru, but the new species differs by the shape of its young branchlets, leaves, pedicels, and petals; the higher number of secondary veins; the shorter inflorescences; and the 4-merous flowers. Information about the floristic composition and habitat characteristics for the new species is also provided. /// Se describe e ilustra Ilex guaramacalensis Cuello & Aymard (Aquifoliaceae), una nueva especie de los bosques Andinos y pramos del Ramal de Guaramacal en Venezuela, y se discuten sus relaciones morfolgicas con las especies afines. Ilex guaramacalensis es morfologicamente similar a I. kunthiana Triana, conocida de las montaas altas de Costa Rica y Panam, Cordillera de la Costa y de los Andes de Venezuela hasta Per, sin embargo, la nueva especie se diferencia por la forma de sus ramitas jvenes, hojas, pedicelos y ptalos, el mayor numero de venas secundarias, las inflorescencias mas cortas y las flores tetrmeras. Se presenta tambin informacin sobre la composicin florstica y caractersticas del hbitat donde crece la nueva especie.
20406275|Dimeria veldkampii Kiran Raj & Sivadasan, from north Goa of the northern Western Ghats, is illustrated and described as a new species of Poaceae belonging to the subtribe Dimeriinae of the tribe Andropogoneae. The species resembles D. woodrowii Stapf, but differs mainly by its inflorescence rachises being singly or doubly circinately recurved and by the immediate shedding of the spikelets as diaspores. Comparative morphological features of the new species and D. woodrowii are described, and a dichotomous key to the constituent species of Dimeria sect. Annulares Bor is provided.
10.2307/3391918|Cissus colombiensis and C. verticillata subsp. colombiana, new taxa of Vitaceae, are described from Colombia. In addition to descriptions and illustrations, comments on their probable relationships and distributions are presented.
23018461|During revisionary work on the genus Staurogyne Wall. (Acanthaceae) in the Neotropics, the need for typifications was apparent. Lectotypes are designated for S. anigozanthus (Nees) Kuntze, S. diantheroides Lindau, S. elegans (Nees) Kuntze, S. hirsuta (Nees) Kuntze, S. minarum (Nees) Kuntze, S. repens (Nees) Kuntze, and S. riedeliana (Nees) Kuntze. Neotypes are selected for S. eustachya Lindau, S. mandioccana (Nees) Kuntze, and S. veronicifolia (Nees) Kuntze. Durante o estudo de reviso do gnero Staurogyne Wall. (Acanthaceae) nos neotrpicos foi verificada a necessidade de tipificaes. So designadas lectotipificaes para S. anigozanthus (Nees) Kuntze, S. diantheroides Lindau, S. elegans (Nees) Kuntze, S. hirsuta (Nees) Kuntze, S. minarum (Nees) Kuntze, S. repens (Nees) Kuntze e S. riedeliana (Nees) Kuntze. So selecionadas neotipificaes para S. eustachya Lindau, S. mandioccana (Nees) Kuntze e S. veronicifolia (Nees) Kuntze.
3393493|The palm genus Alsmithia H. E. Moore (Arecaceae, Arecoideae), with a single representative from Fiji, is included in synonymy with Heterospathe Scheffer as H. longipes (H. E. Moore) Norup. The species is distinctive within Heterospathe in having an elaborately sculptured endocarp. Alsmithia and Heterospathe share several characters, most notably the lack of a crownshaft, persistent peduncular bracts and prophyll, a completely encircling prophyll, interfoliar inflorescences, and an elongate peduncle. However, the characters are homoplasious and are only diagnostic in combination. The taxonomic transfer is well supported by molecular phylogenetic studies based on two low-copy nuclear DNA markers, PRK and RPB2.
10.2307/3391758|The genera Pritzelago (= Hutchinsia) and Hymenolobus are reduced to synonymy of Hornungia. New combinations for Hornungia alpina and its subspecies are proposed. A key to the three species of Hornungia is provided.
10.2307/3393374|Monardella stoneana (Lamiaceae), a narrow endemic from northern Baja California, Mexico, and southern San Diego County, California, is described and illustrated. Differences in leaf and bract morphology, pubescence, stem glands, and habitat separate it from M. linoides A. Gray and M. odoratissima Bentham, apparently its closest relatives. The reinstatement of M. viminea Greene at the specific rank is supported on the basis of distinctive morphology and biological isolation. A key is included to separate M. stoneana from all of the perennial Monardella species known to occur in San Diego County, California.
10.2307/3391681|The new genus Mesanthophora is from a limestone area of central Paraguay. It looks similar to Lepidaploa, but has decurrent auriculate-based leaves, pedunculate heads from the middle of internodes, nearly equal numbers of involucral bracts and florets, and triporate, totally lophate, strongly columellate pollen lacking a perforated tectum.
23018443|While studying the species of Zornia J. F. Gmel. (Leguminosae, Papilionoideae, Dalbergieae) from Brazil for taxonomic revision of the genus, eight lectotypifications are proposed: Hedysarum bifolium Vell., Z. diphylla (L.) Pers. var. bernardinensis Chodat & Hassl., Z. diphylla var. elatior Benth., Z. diphylla f. ciliata Chodat & Hassl., Z. myriadena Benth., Z. perforata Vogel, Z. reticulata Sm., and Z. sericea Moric., as well as two neotypifications for Z. brasiliensis Vogel and Z. ovata Vogel. A new combination, Z. vichadana (Killip ex Mohlenbr.) Fort.-Perez & A. M. G. Azevedo is proposed, based upon Z. pardina Mohlenbr. var. vichadana Kilip ex Mohlenbr. Eighteen new synonymizations are also included.
20406243|During taxonomic revision of the genus Hortia Vandelli (Rutaceae), it was necessary to lectotypify the name H. megaphylla Taubert because of the destruction of the holotype at B during World War II. This name is also formally synonymized under H. longifolia Spruce ex Engler. The author attribution is changed for H. longifolia Spruce ex Engler, crediting Spruce rather than Bentham. /// Durante a reviso do gnero Hortia Vandelli (Rutaceae), foi verificada a necessidade de lectotipificao do nome H. megaphylla Taubert, em razo da destruio do holtipo depositado em B durante a Segunda Guerra Mundial. Esse nome tambm  formalmente sinonimizado em H. longifolia Spruce ex Engler. A atribuio do autor  mudada para H. longifolia Spruce ex Engler, dando crdito a Spruce ao invs de Bentham.
10.2307/3392065|Typification studies have revealed that the name Viola parvifolia Bentham, until now applied to an endemic high-elevation violet of Ecuador, is a homonym of V. parvifolia Roemer & Schultes, which is a synonym of Ionidium glutinosum Ventenat and, ultimately, of Hybanthus parviflorus (Mutis ex L.f.) Baillon. A new name, V. polycephala H. E. Ballard & P. Jrgensen, is proposed.
10.2307/3391609|Prior to the treatment of Lonchocarpus for the Flora of the Venezuelan Guyana, two new species endemic to the northern part of Estado Bolvar, Venezuela, and partly extending into adjacent Territorio Federal Delta Amacuro, are described: Lonchocarpus crassispermus, related to L. hedyosmus, and Lonchocarpus imatacensis from the subgenus Neuroscapha. In addition, Lonchocarpus tubicalyx is validated.
23018508|The Neotropical genus Borojoa Cuatrec. (Rubiaceae) is now considered a synonym of Alibertia A. Rich. ex DC. Consequently, three species named in Borojoa and found in Costa Rica and Panama are transferred to Alibertia with these corresponding nomenclatural changes: the new combination A. atlantica (Dwyer) Delprete & C. H. Perss. is based on B. atlantica Dwyer, the new name A. dwyeri Delprete & C. H. Perss. is provided for B. panamensis Dwyer, and the new combination A. patinoi (Cuatrec.) Delprete & C. H. Perss. is provided for B. patinoi Cuatrec. Additionally, the species A. premontana C. M. Taylor is reduced to a variety of A. edulis (Rich.) A. Rich. ex DC., as A. edulis var. premontana (C. M. Taylor) Delprete & C. H. Perss. A lectotype is selected for A. edulis. The recent publication of Arachnothryx chimalaparum Lorence ex Borhidi designated a holotype deposited at MO, but no such specimen has been located; a lectotype is here chosen based on a duplicate of the holotype deposited at MEXU. The new species Notopleura recondita Hammel & C. M. Taylor of the Osa Peninsula of Costa Rica can be distinguished from N. polyphlebia (Donn. Sm.) C. M. Taylor by its leaf blades with the secondary veins plane on the adaxial surface and its short cymose or paniculiform inflorescences. The new species Palicourea matamana C. M. Taylor of premontane forests of central-eastern Costa Rica can be separated from P. orosiana C. M. Taylor by its larger stipules, longer calyx lobes, and hirsute pubescence. The new species P. providenciana J. Snchez-Gonz. & C. M. Taylor of montane forests in south-central Costa Rica can be separated from P. hammelii C. M. Taylor by its longer lanceolate stipule lobes, dark purple or yellow-flushed inflorescences, and shorter calyx lobes. The Panamanian plants treated previously as Psychotria acuminata subsp. boraginoides Dwyer are here considered to differ at the species level from P. acuminata Benth., and accordingly the new combination P. boraginoides (Dwyer) C. M. Taylor is here published for this species. Clarification of the identity of Cephaelis croatii Dwyer shows that it is a distinct species of Psychotria, and the new combination P. croatii (Dwyer) C. M. Taylor is published here for this species. The new species P. herrerana C. M. Taylor of central Costa Rica can be recognized by its combination of large, sessile, elliptic leaves, its large paniculiform inflorescences, and its relatively small corollas. Study of the Costa Rican plants previously called Rudgea thyrsiflora Donn. Sm. shows that these do not have the characters of Rudgea, but are similar to Psychotria racemosa Rich. and better included in this latter genus; the new name P. tsakiana C. M. Taylor is here published for this species. The new combination Simira panamensis (Dwyer) C. M. Taylor is published here based on the name Bathysa panamensis Dwyer, which has priority over the name S. darienensis Dwyer; both of the names Dwyer published are based on the same type specimen, thus the later name S. darienensis is illegitimate. El gnero neotropical Borojoa Cuatrec. (Rubiaceae) ahora se considera un sinnimo de Alibertia A. Rich. ex DC., por lo tanto las tres especies con nombres en Borojoa que se encuentran en Costa Rica y Panama se transfieren a Alibertia con los cambios nomenclaturales correspondientes: la combinacin nueva A. atlantica (Dwyer) Delprete & C. H. Perss. se basa en B. atlantica Dwyer, el nombre nuevo A. dwyeri Delprete & C. H. Perss. se publica para B. panamensis Dwyer, y la nueva combinacin A. patinoi (Cuatrec.) Delprete & C. H. Perss. se publica para B. patinoi Cuatrec. Adems la especie A. premontana C. M. Taylor se rebaja a una variedad de A. edulis (Rich.) A. Rich. ex DC., con el nombre A. edulis var. premontana (C. M. Taylor) Delprete & C. H. Perss. Se escoge un lectotipo para A. edulis. Para la especie recientemente descrita Arachnothryx chimalaparum Lorence ex Borhidi design un holotipo depositado en MO, pero tal espcimen no se ha ubicado; aqu se escoge como lectotipo un duplicado del holotipo en MEXU. La especie nueva Notopleura recondita Hammel & C. M. Taylor de la Pennsula de Osa de Costa Rica se distingue de N. polyphlebia (Donn. Sm.) C. M. Taylor por las lminas foliares con las venas secundarias planas en el haz y las cortas inflorescencias cimosas o paniculiformes. La especie nueva Palicourea matamana C. M. Taylor de bosques premontanos del centro-este de Costa Rica se distingue de P. orosiana C. M. Taylor por las estpulas ms grandes, los lbulos del cliz ms largos y la pubescencia hirsuta. La especie nueva P. providenciana J. Snchez-Gonz. & C. M. Taylor de bosques montanos en el sur-central de Costa Rica se distingue de P. hammelii C. M. Taylor por los lbulos de las estpulas lanceolados y ms largos, las inflorescencias de color morado oscuro o matizado con amarillo y los lbulos del cliz ms cortos. Las plantas panameas anteriormente tratadas en Psychotria acuminata subsp. boraginoides Dwyer aqu se consideran diferentes de P. acuminata Benth. al nivel de especie, entonces la combinacin nueva P. boraginoides (Dwyer) C. M. Taylor se publica aqu para esta especie. La clarificacin de la identidad de Cephaelis croatii Dwyer demuestra que es una especie diferente de Psychotria, y la combinacin nueva P. croatii (Dwyer) C. M. Taylor se publica aqu para esta especie. La especie nueva P. herrerana C. M. Taylor del centro de Costa Rica se reconoce por la combinacin de las hojas grandes, ssiles y elpticas, las grandes inflorescencias paniculiformes y las corolas relativamente pequeas. El estudio de las plantas costarricenses anteriormente llamadas Rudgea thyrsiflora Donn. Sm. demuestra que stas no tienen los carcteres de Rudgea y son similares a Psychotria racemosa Rich., entonces se incluyen mejor in este segundo gnero; el nombre nuevo P. tsakiana C. M. Taylor se publica aqu para esta especie. La combinacin nueva Simira panamensis (Dwyer) C. M. Taylor se publica aqu basado en el nombre Bathysa panamensis Dwyer, lo cual tiene prioridad sobre el nombre S. darienensis Dwyer; ambos de los nombres publicados por Dwyer se basan en el mismo espcimen tipo, entonces el nombre posterior S. darienensis es ilegtimo.
10.2307/3392230|Three new species of Gibsoniothamnus L. O. Williams, G. grandiflorus, G. stellatus, and G. versicolor, are described as new.
3393403| The eastern Asian genus Belamcanda (Iridaceae: Irideae), with its sole species, B. chinensis, the leopard or blackberry lily, has long been understood to be most closely related to Iris dichotoma (syn. Pardanthopsis dichotoma), but has nevertheless been maintained as a separate genus because of its distinctive floral, fruit, and seed morphology. Molecular DNA sequence evidence shows B. chinensis and its sister species, I. dichotoma, to be nested within the large Northern Hemisphere genus Iris (ca. 280 spp.). Not only does consistent taxonomic treatment of genera of the Iridaceae require that Belamcanda be transferred to Iris, but we argue that taxonomy should follow the principle of monophyly, which requires that Belamcanda and any other genus nested in Iris be treated as members of that genus. A new combination, I. domestica (basionym Epidendrum domesticum), is made for B. chinensis (based on Ixia chinensis), because the name Iris chinensis is preoccupied. The names Belamcanda pampaninii Lveill and B. chinensis var. taiwanensis S. S. Ying are here included in the synonymy of I. domestica. 
27765189|A new species of Cyanus Miller, C. diospolitanus Bancheva & S. Stoyanov (Asteraceae, Centaureinae), from Tundzha hilly country floristic region in Elhovo municipality, southeastern Bulgaria, is described and illustrated. It belongs to Cyanus sect. Napuliferi (Stefanoff & T. Georgiev) Bancheva & Raimondo, and taxonomically its closest relative is C. pseudoaxillaris (Stefanoff & T. Georgiev) Holub, a rare local endemic for the Thracian Plain, Bulgaria. The new species is currently known from four localities in the Derventski Hills (Yambol Province), growing at the periphery of dry, stony meadows in thermophilous oak forests and brushwood. The chromosome number is 2n = 22, and SEM analysis of the pollen grains is described and illustrated.
10.2307/3393116|Two new species from China, Listera microphylla S. C. Chen & Y. B. Luo and L. fangii Tang & Wang ex S. C. Chen & G. Zhu, are described and illustrated. Listera megalochila (S. C. Chen) S. C. Chen & G. Zhu is elevated in status from varietal to species level based on characters of the floral lip. Their affinities with other related species of Listera are briefly discussed.
10.2307/3391705|A fourth species of Dasyphyllum sect. Dasyphyllum with a floral tube that is pilose on the outside is described here; the other three species are Dasyphyllum inerme, D. lanceolatum, and D. vepreculatum. This new species, which we name Dasyphyllum maria-lianae, is distinguished from the others by the broadly ovate leaves that are loosely villous above and densely villous below, a longer pedicel, a wider involucre, densely tomentose phyllaries, and a greater number of flowers.
3393351| Se describe e ilustra Sphyrospermum linearifolium (Ericaceae), un taxn endmico a Costa Rica, bastante singular dentro del gnero por sus hojas lineares y hbito colgante y se comenta su relacin con otras especies dentro del gnero. /// Sphyrospermum linearifolium (Ericaceae), a new endemic species from Costa Rica, is described and illustrated, and its relationships are discussed. The taxon is distinctive within the genus because of its linear leaves and scandent habit. 
3393322|A new species of Minasia (Asteraceae, Vernonieae) was found in the "campos rupestres" of the Planalto de Diamantina, Minas Gerais, Brazil. Minasia lewinsohnii is characterized by its overall small size, linear to elliptical subfleshy leaves, sessile to pedunculate capitula, and achenes with indumentum throughout the surface. So far, it is known from only one population.
10.2307/3393106|A new species is presented for the genus Adenocalymma (Bignoniaceae tribe Bignonieae). Adenocalymma magnoalatum Scudeller occurs in the Parque Estadual do Rio Doce, Minas Gerais, Brazil. Its subcoriaceous blades and secondary veins raised and yellow below, a quadrangular ovary, and especially the 4-alate fruit and convex, bi-alate seeds compressed on the back distinguish the species. /// Se presenta una nueva especie para el gnero Adenocalymma (Bignoniaceae tribu Bignonieae), A. magnoalatum Scudeller, del "Parque Estadual do Rio Doce," Minas Gerais, Brasil. La especie se caracteriza por sus hojas subcoriceas y venas secundarias elevadas y amarillas en el envs, un ovario cuadrangular y especialmente por el fruto 4-alado y las semillas convexas y bi-aladas comprimidas dorsalmente.
10.2307/3392014|Metroxylon paulcoxii sp. nov., from the islands of 'Upolu and Savai'i in Western Samoa, is described, illustrated, and compared to M. warburgii (F. Heim) Beccari, which is also present in Samoa. Metroxylon paulcoxii is differentiated from M. warburgii by the presence of three autapomorphic characters: shorter mid-rachis leaflets, pendulous or variable rachillae, and terminal (distal) rachillae more than twice as long as lateral (proximal) rachillae. In addition, the ambiguous name M. upoluense Beccari is discussed.
10.2307/3391761|The new species Sinojackia microcarpa C. T. Chen & G. Y. Li is described and illustrated, and the characters distinguishing it from the related species S. rehderiana are given.
40300880|Cyclanthera lalajuela Hammel & J. A. Gonzalez, known only from the Caribbean slope of Alajuela Province, Costa Rica, is described. The combination of trifoliolate leaves with conspicuous, sessile glands at the base of the leaflets and unarmed fruits distinguish it from all other species in the genus. /// Se describe Cyclanthera lalajuela Hammel & J. A. Gonzlez, conocida solamente de la vertiene caribea de la provincia de Alajuela, Costa Rica. La combinacin de hojas trifolioladas con glndulas ssiles, conspicuas en la base de las hojuelas y sus frutos inermes la distingue de todas las dems especies del gnero.
20406232|The combinations Hibiscus moscheutos L. subsp. lasiocarpos (Cavanilles) O. J. Blanchard, H. clypeatus L. subsp. cryptocarpos (A. Richard) O. J. Blanchard, and H. clypeatus subsp. membranaceus (Cavanilles) O. J. Blanchard are validated for a central North American plant taxon, a Cuban plant taxon, and a Bahamian plant taxon, respectively. The name H. grandiflorus Michaux is lectotypified. A new name, Kosteletzkya semota O. J. Blanchard, is established for the West African K. stellata Hutchinson & Dalziel, a later homonym. The neotype of the Philippine endemic K. batacensis (Blanco) Fernndez-Villar is changed. Two well-known species, K. virginica (L.) C. Presl ex A. Gray of eastern North America and K. pentacarpos (L.) Ledebour of Eurasia, are synonymized under the latter name.
10.2307/3391657|While preparing the genus Solarium for the Flora of the Venezuelan Guayana, W. G. D'Arcy and I discovered Solanum nuricum M. Nee, sp. nov., among collections made in the northeastern part of the region.
10.2307/3393146|Bertiera rugosa is described and illustrated. It is known only from a single locality at ca. 2000 m altitude in southern Ecuador. It is distinguished by its conspicuously rugose leaves, short stipule sheaths, and pyramidal inflorescences. An updated key to Ecuadorian Bertiera is given.
10.2307/3391524|In accordance with the acceptance of the generic name Parasenecio for the Asiatic-centered species historically referred to Cacalia, a new combination is made for the single species that ranges to North America: Parasenecio auriculata (A. P. de Candolle) J. R. Grant.
20406254|New combinations in Lychnis L. (Caryophyllaceae) are proposed for the names of seven taxa occurring in the East and West African mountains. The taxa have previously been placed in Uebelinia Hochstetter, but recent molecular studies placed the group within Lychnis. The new combinations are: L. crassifolia (T. C. E. Fries) M. Popp, L. kigesiensis (R. D. Good) M. Popp, L. kigesiensis subsp. ragazziana (S. Ousted) M. Popp, L. kiwuensis (T. C. E. Fries) M. Popp, L. kiwuensis subsp. erlangeriana (S. Ousted) M. Popp, L. rotundifolia (Oliver) M. Popp, and L. scottii (Turrill) M. Popp.
20406177|Parrya nauruaq Al-Shehbaz, J. R. Grant, R. Lipkin, D. F. Murray & C. L. Parker (Brassicaceae) is described from the Seward Peninsula of Alaska. It differs from the other North American species in Parrya R. Brown by its smaller flowers and fruits, and by its fewer seeds per fruit. A key to the four North American species of Parrya is provided.
20406163|A new species of Luzula sect. Luzula DC., known from higher altitudes of volcanic hills in Costa Rica, is described under the name Luzula ignivoma Kirschner. It is most closely related to the Chilean species L. tristachya Desvaux. New Central American country records of other species of the Juncaceae are also given: Juncus marginatus Rostkovius from Panama, Juncus hybridus Brotero, and J. cooperi Engelmann from Mexico.
41811674|A new species of Papaveraceae, Meconopsis xiangchengensis R. Li & Z. L. Dao, is described and illustrated from southwestern Sichuan, China. The new taxon is placed in Meconopsis sect. Simplicifoliae (Tayl.) C. Y. Wu & H. Chuang and is morphologically related to M. impedita Prain. Meconopsis xiangchengensis differs from the latter by the plant height (8-10 cm vs. 15-25 cm in M. impedita) with sparse prickles or nearly glabrous on both surfaces (vs. denser prickles), and by the shorter petioles (1-2.5 cm vs. 3-7.2 cm) and styles (2-3 mm vs. 3-10 mm).
10.2307/3392046|Potamogeton subg. Coleogeton is elevated to generic level. A combination of morphological and anatomical features readily distinguishes the new genus Coleogeton from both Groenlandia and Potamogeton, the two other genera recognized in the Potamogetonaceae. All new combinations for taxa that occur in North America are proposed for use in the Flora of North America. These new combinations include Coleogeton striatus, C. pectinatus, C. filiformis, C. filiformis subsp. alpinus, C. filiformis subsp. occidentalis, and C. vaginatus.
3393299| Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie endmica de Mesoamrica, Gonolobus incerianus (Apocynaceae, Asclepiadoideae). /// Gonolobus incerianus (Apocynaceae, Asclepiadoideae), a Mesoamerican endemic, is described and illustrated. 
10.2307/3391829|Didymocarpus miniatus (Gesneriaceae), a new species in Didymocarpus sect. Heteroboea, is described from Bukit Bauk in Trengganu, Peninsular Malaysia.
10.2307/3393110|Current floristic research in Venezuela has resulted in the recognition of another new species of Justicia. This new species, Justicia aymardii, presently known from the slopes of the eastern Andes, the Sierra Nevada de Merida, is described, illustrated, and compared to its closest relative, Justicia ischnorhachis Leonard, which is from Colombia. It alone among Justicia has the combination of (1) a 4-parted calyx, (2) multicellular purplish colored trichomes along the stem, peduncles, and rachis, and (3) a conspicuous purplish to reddish purple, long, somewhat curved, tubular corolla (20-28 mm long) with relatively short lips (8-9 mm long). This new species does not appear to be closely related to any of the known species of Justicia from Venezuela.
10.2307/3393210|Four replacement names are required in Campanulaceae s.l. due to the principle of priority. Genera affected are Codonopsis Wallich, Lobelia L., and Wahlenbergia Schrader ex Roth.
10.2307/3391579|Miconia alainii, which is known only from a diverse cloud forest near the summit of Loma Trocha de Pey or "Monteada Nueva," the eastern-most peak of the Sierra de Baoruco of the Dominican Republic, is described and illustrated. It is compared to M. adenocalyx and M. favosa, two phenetically similar species.
20406171|Una nueva especie de Chile, Adesmia ovallensis Ulibarri (serie Argyrophyllae Burkart), es descripta, ilustrada y comparada con especies vecinas. Se hacen tambin consideraciones sobre su relacin dentro de las series del gnero Adesmia DC. Se establece la sinonimia de A. kingi Philippi y A. sessiliflora Philippi con A. argyrophylla Philippi. Se establece tambin la lectotipificacin de A. sessiliflora. /// A new species from Chile, Adesmia ovallensis Ulibarri (series Argyrophyllae Burkart), is described, illustrated, and compared with other allied species. Affinities within the series of the genus Adesmia DC. are also considered. The synonymy of A. kingi Philippi and A. sessiliflora Philippi with A. argyrophylla Philippi is established. A lectotype for A. sessiliflora is also designated.
3393314|Pritchardia flynnii Lorence & Gemmill is described and illustrated from Kaua'i, Hawai'i, U.S.A. This new species most closely resembles the Kaua'i endemic species Pritchardia hardyi, from which it differs by its shorter, more slender trunk 0.7-7(11) m tall and 10-20(30) cm DBH, erect to arcuate inflorescences equaling or slightly exceeding the petioles with lanate-tomentose, eventually glabrescent rachillae, and smaller fruits 25-35 x 18-23 mm when dry.
40856311|Se describen e ilustran dos nuevas especies del gnero Siphoneugena O. Berg (Myrtaceae) y se provee una clave de identificacin para las especies del mismo. Siphoneugena minima Loza & A. Fuentes se encontr en un bosque montano del Parque Nacional Madidi y S. glabrata Loza & P. Jrg. en los bosques de Alnus Mili, de la Reserva Natural Choquetanga-Choquercamiri. Se discuten semejanzas y diferencias morfolgicas entre S. minima con S. delicata Sobral & Proena y S. reitzii D. Legrand; la caracterstica ms marcada que distingue a S. minima de las dems especies es la presencia de botones y flores ssiles. Siphoneugena glabrata se compar con S. densiflora O. Berg, S. dussii (Krug & Urb.) Proena y S. occidentalis D. Legrand, pero difiere de estas especies por presentar las ramas jvenes glabras. Two new species of Siphoneugena O. Berg (Myrtaceae) are described and illustrated, and a key to the species of the genus is provided. Siphoneugena minima Loza & A. Fuentes was found in montane forest of Madidi National Park, and S. glabrata Loza & P. Jrg. was found in Alnus Mill, forests of the ChoquetangaChoquercamiri Natural Reserve. We discuss morphological similarities and differences that distinguish S. minima from S. delicata Sobral & Proena and S. reitzii D. Legrand; the most notable characteristic that distinguishes S. minima is the sessile buds and flowers. Siphoneugena glabrata is compared to S. densiflora O. Berg, S. dussii (Krug & Urb.) Proena, and S. occidentalis D. Legrand, but differs from these species by its glabrous twigs.
10.2307/3392984|A new genus of stapeliad, Baynesia (Apocynaceae-Asclepiadoideae-Ceropegieae), is described with a single species, B. lophophora Bruyns. This is known from the mountainous area in the northwestern-most corner of Namibia, where it was relatively plentiful but very local. Its relationships to Caralluma R. Brown and Pseudolithos P. R. O. Bally are discussed.
10.2307/3393008|In this work, we propose the new combination Stuckenia punensis (Galn de Mera) Galn de Mera for use in the Peruvian flora. This species is coincident with S. filiformis in its distribution in the high Andes of Peru. Stuckenia punensis differs from S. filiformis in its wider, scabrous leaves and globose achenes.
3393281|The new combinations Braya gamosepala and B. brachycarpa (Brassicaceae) are proposed. The distinguishing characters, especially of habit and fruit and trichome morphology, separating Arabidopsis, Braya, and Neotorularia (formerly Torularia) are discussed.
10.2307/3393119|Two new species, Ainsliaea pentaflora from Tonkin, Vietnam, and Ainsliaea qianiana from Yunnan, China, are described and illustrated. Ainsliaea pentaflora is distinguished by its 5-flowered capitula, rounded anther appendages, and rosulate leaves with practically wingless petioles. Ainsliaea qianiana is distinguished by its apiculate anther appendages, rosulate leaves with petioles winged, and 3-flowered capitula. These species are compared with closely related species. Included are keys to those Ainsliaea with apiculate anther appendages and 5-flowered capitula.
20406091|Based on the examination of the original material and protologue, the specimen Balansa 3884 (P) is designated as the lectotype of Talauma fistulosa Finet & Gagnepain, the basionym of Magnolia fistulosa (Finet & Gagnepain) Dandy, to supersede under Art. 9.17(b) of the ICBN the earlier designation by Chen and Nooteboom, Bon 3176. Two other names, M. talaumoides Dandy and M. phanerophlebia B. L. Chen, are referred to M. fistulosa as new synonyms.
10.2307/3391652|Morphological characters support the description of six new species of Indigofera from Madagascar: I. bemarahaensis Du Puy & Labat from the Bemaraha Massif (western region), and I. blaiseae Du Puy & Labat, I. bosseri Du Puy & Labat, I. imerinensis Du Puy & Labat, I. itremoensis Du Puy & Labat, and I. zornioides Du Puy & Labat from various localities in the Central Plateaux. In addition, a new name, I. peltieri Du Puy & Labat, is given in place of I. tulearensis M. Peltier, a later homonym of I. tulearensis Baillon ex Drake, and the species I. ankaratrensis and I. mangokyensis are lectotypified. /// L'tude des caractres morphologiques permet la description de six nouvelles espces d'Indigofera de Madagascar: I. bemarahaensis Du Puy & Labat du Massif du Bemaraha (region ouest), et I. blaiseae Du Puy & Labat, I. bosseri Du Puy & Labat, I. imerinensis Du Puy & Labat, I. itremoensis Du Puy & Labat, et I. zornioides Du Puy & Labat de diffrentes localits du Plateau Central. Egalement, un nouveau nom, I. peltieri Du Puy & Labat, est donn en remplacement de I. tulearensis M. Peltier, un homonyme plus rcent de I. tulearensis Baillon ex Drake. Les espces I. ankaratrensis et I. mangokyensis sont lectotypifies.
20406237|Se describe e ilustra Haematoxylum sousanum Cruz Durn & J. Jimnez Ramrez, una especie nueva (Leguminosae, Caesalpinioideae) de la parte alta de la Cuenca del Ro Balsas, al sur de Mxico. Esta especie es afn a H. brasiletto H. Karsten, pero difiere por presentar hojas paripinnadas o biimparipinnadas, flores en inflorescencias paniculadas, partes florales de forma diferente, fruto falcado y diferente fenologa. /// Haematoxylum sousanum Cruz Durn & J. Jimnez Ramrez, a new species (Leguminosae, Caesalpinioideae) from the high Balsas basin from southern Mexico, is described and illustrated. It appears similar to H. brasiletto H. Karsten, but differs in presenting paripinnate or bi-imparipinnate leaves, flowers in panicles, floral parts different in form, falcate fruits, and distinct phenology.
10.2307/3392106|Hemilophia sessilifolia is described and illustrated. Its relationship to the other species of Hemilophia is discussed.
10.2307/3393531|Tulipa mongolica Y. Z. Zhao (Liliaceae) is described from Inner Mongolia, China. The new species is distinguished by its filaments 2.5-3.0 times as long as the anthers. It is related to T. heteropetala Ledebour on the basis of its filaments widened from the mid-point down, narrowing on both sides of the filament.
20406037|Rhamnus mongolica Y. Z. Zhao & L. Q. Zhao (Rhamnaceae) is described from Inner Mongolia, China. The new species is related to R. gilgiana Heppeler, but distinguished by its leaves oblanceolate or obovate-lanceolate and glabrous on both surfaces.
10.2307/3393265| We describe and illustrate a monotypic new genus and species of fern, Luisma bivascularis M. T. Murillo & A. R. Smith (Grammitidaceae), endemic from the Colombian Andes. Luisma is similar to narrow-leaved species of Campyloneurum (Polypodiaceae). However, it agrees with grammitid ferns in having green, trilete spores (vs. hyaline or yellowish, monolete spores in nearly all Polypodiaceae) and free veins (vs. anastomosing in Campyloneurum). From all Grammitidaceae, Luisma differs in having two petiolar bundles. Other distinguishing characters include suberect, radially symmetrical rhizomes, sparse hyaline stipe hairs, adaxial hydathodes, and clathrate, setulose rhizome scales. /// Nosotros describimos e ilustramos un nuevo gnero y especie de helecho monotpico, Luisma bivascularis M. T. Murillo & A. R. Smith (Grammitidaceae), endmico de los Andes colombianos. Luisma es similar a especies de Campyloneurum (Polypodiaceae) con hojas angostas. Sin embargo, concuerda con las gramitidceas por tener esporas verdes, triletes (vs. esporas hialinas o amarillentas en casi todas las Polypodiaceae) y venas libres (vs. anastomosadas en Campyloneurum). De todas las Grammitidaceae Luisma difiere por tener dos haces peciolares. Otros caracteres que lo distinguen incluyen un rizoma radialmente simtrico, con pelos hialinos esparcidos en el estpite, hidatodos adaxiales y escamas del rizoma clatradas, setulosas. 
43289112|A new moss species of the family Mielichhoferiaceae, Synthetodontium kunlunense J. C. Zhao & Y. Y. Liu, is described and illustrated. It was collected from soil substrates in an oasis in the Kunlun Mountains in Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region in China. The peristome structure of this species is similar to that of S. pringlei Cardot, but S. kunlunense has longer leaves (0.51.3 mm vs. ca. 0.5 mm), shorter median leaf cells (8.6-21.7 m vs. 40.672.6 m), decurrent leaf bases (vs. not decurrent), a nodding capsule (vs. erect), and reddish proximal leaf cells (vs. green). Synthetodontium Cardot seems to be a disjunct genus distributed between East Asia and North America because the new species is known from a single locality in China, and another closely related species in the genus is known from four localities in Mexico.
27765237|Two new tropical species in Eleocharis subgen. Limnochloa (P. Beauv. ex T. Lestib.) Torr. (Cyperaceae) are described and their relationships with presumably allied species are discussed. Eleocharis hooperiana D. J. Rosen from Sierra Leone in West Tropical Africa differs from the morphologically similar and presumably close taxonomie ally E. nupeensis Hutch, in a combination of coarser culms, longer and more coarsely spinulose perianth bristles, and larger fruits. Eleocharis tenuiculmis D. J. Rosen from the Brazilian state of Mato Grosso differs from the similar slender-culmed species E. elongata Chapm. in a combination of narrower culms, longer perianth bristles, and generally larger, biconvex fruits. Se describen dos nuevas especies tropicales de Eleocharis subgen. Limnochloa (P. Beauv. ex T. Lestib.) Torr. (Cyperaceae) y se discuten sus relaciones con especies presumiblemente relacionadas. Eleocharis hooperiana D. J. Rosen, de Sierra Leona en Africa tropical occidental, difiere de E. nupeensis Hutch., una especie morfolgicamente similar y presumiblemente cercanamente relacionada, en tener tallos ms robustos, cerdas del perianto ms largas y ms espinulosas, y frutos ms grandes. Eleocharis tenuiculmis D. J. Rosen, del Estado Brasileo de Mato Grosso, difiere de E. elongata Chapm., otra especie de tallos delgados, en una combinacin de tallos ms delgados, cerdas del perianto ms largas, y frutos biconvexos generalmente ms grandes.
20406293|A description of Hypoxis bampsiana Wiland (Hypoxidaceae) is extended, and a new subspecies, H. bampsiana subsp. tomentosa Wiland, is described from the Dzalanyama Forest Reserve in Malawi (also distributed from the Democratic Republic of Congo and Tanzania). It differs from H. bampsiana subsp. bampsiana in the indumentum dispersed on the whole leaf blade and in the number of leaf veins. Ranges of both subspecies are almost allopatric except at the Kundelungu Plateau in the Democratic Republic of Congo where they co-occur.
10.2307/3391914|Trillium channellii (Trilliaceae), a new tetraploid species from eastern Hokkaido (northern Japan), is described. Evidence concerning its relationships with other Trillium taxa in Asia is presented and discussed, and hypotheses about its origin are considered. The name T. camschatcense Ker Gawler is presented as the correct name for the only diploid Trillium species in Asia, a taxon most commonly treated as T. camtschaticum Pallas ex Pursh; the latter name was not only published invalidly but also at a later date than the former.
23018476|A new genus, Ananthura H. Rob. & Skvarla (Asteraceae, Vernonieae), is described for Vernonia pteropoda Oliv. & Hiern in Oliv. of Central Africa. The genus has broad median shields on the involucral bracts and lophate, strongly tricolporate pollen. It is placed in the subtribe Gymnantheminae. The name V. urophylla Muschl. is lectotypified.
10.2307/3391953|The genus Thellungiella is recognized, and the characters separating its two species from Arabidopsis are given. Arabidopsis parvula (Schrenk) O. E. Schulz is recognized in Thellungiella.
10.2307/3391943|In preparation for forthcoming publications on allozymes and the ITS region of nuclear DNA of Korthalsella, a synopsis of the genus is presented. Only names in current use are listed; a complete taxonomic revision will be published separately. Molecular evidence, as well as morphometric evaluation of branch shape characters and anatomical results have shown that a realignment of Korthalsella sections and species is needed. The changes involve new delimitations and combinations. A key to the eight species of Korthalsella is presented. The following species are recognized: Korthalsella geminata (Korthals) Engler, K. papuana Danser, K. taenioides (Commerson ex DC.) Engler, including six forms, K. cylindrica (Tieghem) Engler, K. japonica (Thunberg) Engler, including three forms, K. salicornioides (A. Cunningham) Tieghem, K. lindsayi (Oliver ex Hooker f.) Engler, K. lindsayi var. clavata (Kirk) Danser, and K. dacrydii (Ridley) Danser.
10.2307/3393382|While preparing the account of Astragalus L. (Fabaceae) for the Flora of China, Volume 10, it was noticed that one species, A. yumenensis S. B. Ho, described from Gansu Province in 1983, was invalidly named because two types (one flowering and one fruiting) were designated. The name is validated here, with the fruiting specimen designated as the holotype.
10.2307/3391678|Four new species of Meliosma are described from the Peruvian Andes as M. pumila, M. simiarum, M. sirensis, and M. youngii.
10.2307/3391401|Ancistrocladus korupensis, a species here described from the Southwest Province of Cameroon and adjacent Nigeria, is distinguished within the genus by sessile leaves, short petals, and longwinged fruits. The new species was investigated after michellamine B, a unique naphthyl isoquinoline alkaloid isolated from a sterile Ancistrocladus leaf collection, showed in vitro activity against HIV-1 and HIV-2. Subsequent collections showed that the liana was undescribed and apparently narrowly endemic to the Korup area.
10.2307/3392018|Three new species of Erica from the Western Cape Province of South Africa are described and illustrated. Their probable affinities and known distributions are discussed. Erica cabernetea is a very restricted endemic in the Elgin Basin, E. navigatoris is known only from two well-separated inland mountains, and E. cedromontana occurs widespread in the Cedarberg mountains on rock faces.
3393308| Se describe e ilustra Tibouchina araneicalyx de la vertiente del Ocano Pacfico de la Sierra Madre del Sur en Guerrero, Mxico. Se discuten las posibles relaciones de esta especie con T. mexicana (D. Don) Cogniaux y otras especies con flores pentmeras y estambres fuertemente dimrficos, de las que se distingue principalmente por tener ramas agudamente tetrgonas, lbulos del cliz triangulares ms cortos que el hipantio y ptalos con cilios eglandulares. /// Tibouchina araneicalyx is described and illustrated from the Pacific slopes of the Sierra Madre del Sur in Guerrero, Mexico. Its possible relationships with T. mexicana (D. Don) Cogniaux and another Mexican species of Tibouchina with pentamerous flowers and strongly dimorphic stamens are discussed; it is principally distinguished from these species by the sharply tetragonal branches, the triangular calyx lobes shorter than the hypanthium, and the petals with eglandular cilia. 
40960828|Clusia magnoliiflora M. H. G. Gust, is described as new for the Clusiaceae. It grows in dry scrub in the river valleys of the Maran and its tributaries in northern Peru, a kind of habitat that harbors very few Clusia species. The species is distinct on account of its extremely thick, obovate leaves; the large, white flowers with as many as seven or eight spatulate petals; the large, white, triangular stigmata in the flower; and the spherical fruit with the stigmata positioned well below the apex. Clusia magnoliiflora is abundant in the habitat where it was collected.
27765214|Chiritopsis W. T. Wang (Gesneriaceae) is endemic to China, where the genus consists of 10 species and three varieties. In the course of our floristic investigation of karst caves in Guangxi in 2005, the new species C. jingxiensis Yan Liu, W. B. Xu & H. S. Gao was discovered in a karst cave from the Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region of China, and the new taxon is described and illustrated here. This new species is similar to C. mollifolia D. Fang & W. T. Wang in its leaf shape, corolla, and staminodes, but it can be distinguished by its smaller leaves, the lax, l-branched cymes with one to three flowers, and the capsule that is twice as long as the calyx.
10.2307/3391868|A new species of Erica from the Western Cape Province of South Africa is described and illustrated. Its probable affinities and known distribution and habitat are discussed. E. hebdomadalis is a low, spreading species with small, white pendulous flowers and is restricted to the highest altitudes of the eastern Klein Swartberg near Ladismith.
20406196|Tillandsia tehuacana I. Ramrez & Carnevali, a new species in the T. utriculata (L.) L. complex (Bromeliaceae) from Puebla, Mexico, is described and illustrated. The new entity is similar to T. makoyana Baker, but the rosettes are cylindrical (vs. funnelform), the leaves are coriaceous (vs. sclerotic), the leaves have a proportionately larger sheath compared with the lamina (vs. leaves with the sheath and lamina subequal), and the rachis of the inflorescence is sharply flexuous (vs. straight). The new species is also characterized by its habit, since it usually grows in dry thorn-scrub-cactus associations, while T. makoyana grows in different vegetation types, including oak and low deciduous forests. The new entity is also similar to T. pinicola I. Ramrez & Carnevali, but the new taxon differs by its larger rosette and inflorescence, its tubular rosette with leaves that are gray and purple and white lepidote on both sides (vs. a funnelform rosette with green leaves and only sparsely white lepidote abaxially), the floral bracts much shorter than the sepals (vs. subequal), the flowers ovate in shape (vs. tubular), and the three stigmatic lobes twisted together (vs. not twisted together). /// Se describe e ilustra Tillandsia tehuacana I. Ramrez & Carnevali, una nueva especie del complejo T. utriculata (L.) L. (Bromeliaceae). La nueva especie es similar a T. makoyana Baker, pero sus rosetas son cilndricas (vs. en forma de embudo), sus hojas son coriceas (vs. esclerticas), con una vaina proporcionalmente ms larga que la lmina (vs. hojas con la vaina y la lmina subiguales) y el raquis de la inflorescencia es fuertemente flexuoso (vs. recto). Tambin se caracteriza por crecer en matorral xerfilo asociada con cactus, mientras que T. makoyana crece en bosques de encino y selvas bajas caducifolias. La nueva especie tambin es similar a T. pinicola I. Ramrez & Carnevali pero tiene unas rosetas cilndricas con hojas grises y bandas prpuras, blanco lepidotas en ambas caras e inflorescencias de mayor tamao (vs. rosetas en forma de embudo con hojas verdes en ambas caras, ligeramente lepidotas en la cara abaxial e inflorescencia tan larga o ligeramente mas larga que la roseta), brcteas florales ms cortas que los spalos (vs. subiguales), flores sonovoides en forma general (vs. tubular) y los tres lbulos del estigma son conduplicado-espiralados (vs. conduplicados pero no espiralados).
10.2307/3391482|Two new species of the neotropical wing-fruited genus Stigmaphyllon (Malpighiaceae) are described from Peru, S. argenteum from the eastern lowlands and S. cuzcanum from the uplands of Cuzco.
20406075|Five new Canadian subspecies of Braya are described and illustrated, three within B. humilis (C. A. Meyer) B. L. Robinson (subsp. ellesmerensis J. G. Harris, subsp. maccallae J. G. Harris, and subsp. porsildii J. G. Harris), one within B. glabella Richardson (subsp. prostrata J. G. Harris), and one within B. thorild-wulffii Ostenfeld (subsp. glabrata J. G. Harris). Keys to the North American subspecies of B. humilis, B. glabella, and B. thorild-wulffii are provided. Brief comments about the possible phylogenetic and phytogeographic significance of the subspecies of B. humilis are presented. /// Cinq nouvelles sous-espces canadiennes de Braya sont dcrites et illustres, trois dans B. humilis (C. A. Meyer) B. L. Robinson (subsp. ellesmerensis J. G. Harris, subsp. maccallae J. G. Harris, et subsp. porsildii J. G. Harris), une dans B. glabella Richardson (subsp. prostrata J. G. Harris), et une dans B. thorild-wulffii Ostenfeld (subsp. glabrata J. G. Harris). Des cls aux sous-espces de l'Amrique du Nord de B. humilis, B. glabella, et B. thorild-wulffii, sont donnes. Des commentaires brves concernant la signification phylogntique et phytogographique possibles de la sous-espce B. humilis sont prsents.
20406205|Six new species of Phacelia Jussieu are described from Arizona and New Mexico, U.S.A., as P. buell-vivariensis N. D. Atwood, P. cloudcroftensis N. D. Atwood, P. furnissii N. D. Atwood, P. higginsii N. D. Atwood, P. hughesii N. D. Atwood, and P. pinkavae N. D. Atwood. The new species all belong to the Crenulatae group within the genus. The new species are compared to other members of the group based on similarities and differences in stature, seed, pubescence, and leaf and flower morphology.
10.2307/3392234|Three new species of Rustia are described, two from Ecuador (R. alba and R. viridiflora) and one from Panama (R. dressleri). Illustrations of the three species are provided. /// Se describen tres especies nuevas de Rustia, dos de Ecuador (R. alba y R. viridiflora) y una de Panam (R. dressleri). Se incluyen ilustraciones de las tres especies.
20406102|The Australian species of the bottlebrush genus Callistemon R. Brown are not sufficiently distinct from Melaleuca L. for Callistemon to be maintained as a separate genus. The primary character states used to justify maintenance of Callistemon are that its staminal filaments are free and not grouped. This breaks down as fused filaments in five groups, the defining features of Melaleuca, occur in some Callistemon species. Therefore, it is concluded that the two genera should be combined. The following new names are proposed for species being treated in a forthcoming account of Melaleuca for Flora of Australia: M. faucicola Craven, M. flammea Craven, M. orophila Craven, M. paludicola Craven, M. salicina Craven, M. virens Craven, and M. williamsii Craven. The following new combinations are established as transferred from Callistemon: M. brachyandra (Lindley) Craven, M. chisholmii (Cheel) Craven, M. comboynensis (Cheel) Craven, M. flavovirens (Cheel) Craven, M. formosa (S. T. Blake) Craven, M. montana (S. T. Blake) Craven, M. pachyphylla (Cheel) Craven, M. pearsonii (R. D. Spencer & Lumley) Craven, M. phoenicea (Lindley) Craven, M. pityoides (F. Mueller) Craven, M. polandii (F. M. Bailey) Craven, M. recurva (R. D. Spencer & Lumley) Craven, M. shiressii (Blakely) Craven, and M. subulata (Cheel) Craven. The following new combinations are also established from Metrosideros: Melaleuca linearifolia (Link) Craven, M. linearis var. pinifolia (Wendland) Craven, M. pallida (Bonpland) Craven, and M. rugulosa (Schlechtendal ex Link) Craven. Issues concerning a name in Melaleuca for the accepted species presently known as Callistemon glaucus (Bonpland) Sweet are mentioned.
10.2307/3391431|A new genus and species, Jaimehintonia gypsophila, from gypseous soils of Nuevo Leon, Mexico, is described and illustrated. It belongs to the tribe Allieae of the family Amaryllidaceae, where it is most closely related to Androstephium and associated genera. It differs from most of these in having, in combination, coarsely tunicate bulbs, purple to pink perianths, and a well-developed hypanthium to which the gynoecium is not fused.
27765199|The new species Hoya persicinicoronaria S. Y. He & P. T. Li (Apocynaceae, Asclepiadoideae) is described and illustrated from Hainan, China. The morphology of the related species H. pottsii Traill and H. liangii Tsiang are compared to the new species, which differs in its indumentum, leaf arrangement, leaflet pattern, leaf shape, apex, and size, calyx shape, and corolla color.
10.2307/3391485|Two new species and a new combination are required for the treatment of Epidendrum for the Flora of the Venezuelan Guayana. The new species are Epidendrum caurense and Epidendrum nuriense. Neolehmannia pabstii is transferred to Epidendrum, with the new name Epidendrum dichaeoides. All three species are illustrated with previously unpublished plates by the late G. C. K. Dunsterville. Comments on affinities and geography are provided for all species.
3393344|The new endemic Malagasy genus Dupuya is proposed based on morphological characters. It has two species, D. haraka, comb. nov., and D. madagascariensis, comb. nov., and is distinguished from related genera in having no petals, numerous stamens, a whorl of staminodes inside the stamens, and a number of distinctive seed characters. A new combination is also made for Dupuya madagascariensis subsp. tamarindoides. Dupuya is a member of the aldinoid clade with the genera Aldina, Amburana, Cordyla, Dussia, Mildbraediodendron, and Myrospermum.
10.2307/3391841|Nerine marincowitzii is a rare new species from the Koup Karoo, Cape Province, South Africa. Most closely related to the eastern Cape N. huttoniae Schonland, N. marincowitzii is distinguished by hysteranthous leaves, a sigmoid scape that detaches at ground level when dry, flowers that turn brown at senescence, and a wind-dispersed infructescence. It grows on exposed seasonal washes and flowers at the end of the autumn rainfall season in May.
20406059|Described and illustrated is Memecylon batekeanum R. D. Stone & G. M. Walters from the buffer zone of the Batk Plateaux National Park in southeastern Gabon. This new species is closely related to M. amshoffiae Jacques-Flix of Cameroon, but is distinguished by its shrubby habit, quadrangular-alate young branchlets, fewer-flowered inflorescences, and calyptrate calyx. A provisional IUCN status of Vulnerable is assigned. Memecylon amshoffiae was treated earlier in section Mouririoidea Jacques-Flix, but this is contraindicated by evidence from ovary and anther morphology and by recent molecular phylogenetic analyses. Together, M. amshoffiae and M. batekeanum are provisionally placed next to M. diluviorum Exell in section Polyanthema Engler. /// Dans ce travail est dcrit et illustr Memecylon batekeanum R. D. Stone & G. M. Walters du zone tampon du Parc National des Plateaux Batk du Sud-est Gabon. Cette nouvelle espce se rapproche de l'espce Camerounaise M. amshoffiae Jacques-Flix, mais s'en distingue par sa forme d'arbrisseau, ses jeunes rameaux 4-angulaires-ails, ses cymes peu fleuries, et son calice calyptriforme. Un statut prliminaire de Vulnrable est effectu selon les critres des Listes Rouges de l'UICN. Le traitement antrieure de M. amshoffiae dans la sect. Mouririoidea Jacques-Flix est contrindiqu par des preuves obtenues  partir des caractres morphologiques des ovaires et des anthres, ainsi que par des analyses molculaires phylogntiques. Memecylon amshoffiae et M. batekeanum sont provisoirement placs tous les deux prs de M. diluviorum Exell dans la sect. Polyanthema Engler.
10.2307/3393515|A new species of the Streptocarpus rexii aggregate is described from Itala Game Reserve in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa. The geographic isolation of S. kunhardtii, its pale methyl violet flowers, and long fruits distinguish it from S. roseoalbus, its closest relative. A second new species, S. hilburtianus, is described from two high-altitude localities in Mapumalanga, South Africa. The alliances of this species are unclear, although corolla coloration and leaf vestiture approach S. galpinii; however, it differs in its cylindrical corolla tube, its much shorter pedicels, and its distinctive pollen.
43289108|A novel classification here of the sub-Saharan and Madagascan genus Aristea Aiton (Iridaceae), with ca. 57 species, recognizes three subgenera, Aristea subg. Aristea (18 species), Aristea subg. Eucapsulares (Goldblatt) Goldblatt [ Aristea sect. Eucapsulares Goldblatt] (ca. 30 species), and Aristea subg. Pseudaristea (Pax) Goldblatt [ Aristea sect. Pseudoaristea Pax] (nine species). This replaces a 1940 classification by Henning Weimarck, which included eight sections. In this updated classification, Aristea subg. Aristea includes three sections, and Aristea subg. Eucapsulares, two sections. A lectotype, A. spiralis (L. f.) Ker Gawl., is designated for Aristea sect. Pseudaristea Pax [= Aristea subg. Pseudoaristea (Pax) Goldblatt].
10.2307/3392138|Recently Altamiranoa Rose ( Villadia sect. Altamiranoa (Rose) R. T. Clausen) was merged with Sedum L. For four Peruvian Altamiranoa species without valid names in Sedum we propose three new combinations: Sedum decipiens (Baker) Thiede & 't Hart, Sedum reniforme (H. Jacobsen) Thiede & 't Hart, and Sedum weberbaueri (Diels) Thiede & 't Hart, and one new name, Sedum plicatum Thiede & 't Hart. A lectotype is designated for Cotyledon decipiens Baker, the basionym of Sedum decipiens.
10.2307/3391824|A new species of Arracacia (Apiaceae) is described from the high mountains of Chiapas and Oaxaca, Mexico. Although sharply distinct in many respects, it is contrasted with A. pringlei J. Coulter & Rose, the Oaxacan taxon it most closely resembles.
10.2307/3391789|Stictocardia sivarajanii, a new species of Convolvulaceae from Kerala, India, is described and illustrated. A tabular comparison with its related species Stictocardia tiliifolia is given.
10.2307/3393384| Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie, Schradera reticulata (Rubiaceae, Schradereae). La nueva especie es similar a S. rotundata Standley ex Steyermark de Colombia. No obstante ambas se diferencian en que S. reticulata tiene hojas ms angostas, en su mayora oblongas a elpticas, la venacin terciaria es ligeramente prominente y finamente reticulada en ambas caras de la lmina foliar, el pice es corto acuminado, pednculo ms largo, involucro con dientes marginales, hipanto ms corto y lbulos de la corola ms largos. /// A new species, Schradera reticulata (Rubiaceae, Schradereae), is described and illustrated here. This species is similar to S. rotundata Standley ex Steyermark from Colombia. The two species differ in that S. reticulata has narrower and generally oblong to elliptic leaves, the tertiary venation is slightly prominent and finely reticulate on both foliar sides, the apex is short-acuminate, the peduncle longer, the involucre has marginal teeth, the hypanthium is shorter, and the corolla lobules are longer. 
10.2307/3391483|The Orizaba pinyon (Pinus cembroides subsp. orizabensis) is raised to specific status. Pinus orizabensis differs from P. cembroides in many characters, including needle and bark morphology and terpene chemistry.
3393407|While preparing a treatment of the genus Silene L. for the Generic Flora of Korea, the following novelty was found and is published in this contribution. Accepting the current generic concept of Silene, we noticed that one Korean endemic species, Melandrium umbellatum Nakai, should be transferred to Silene. However, transfer of the specific epithet to Silene would create a later homonym of Silene umbellata Gilibert (= Silene armeria L.). Therefore, we here provide the following new name: Silene myongcheonensis Suk-Pyo Hong & Hye-Kyoung Moon.
10.2307/3393259| A synopsis of Mesoamerican Jacquinia (Theophrastaceae) species with white, yellowish, or cream-colored flowers is presented. A key for their identification is provided. All of these species are restricted to northern Mesoamerica. Among these taxa Jacquinia sak-lol Carnevali, Hernndez-Aguilar & Tapia-Muoz, from the state of Quintana Roo in the Mexican Yucatn Peninsula, is proposed as new. The new entity is described and illustrated. The proposed novelty is related to Jacquinia paludicola Standley, but it is a shrub and features smaller, more coriaceous leaves with a revolute margin and larger flowers. /// Se presenta una sinopsis de las especies de Jacquinia (Theophrastaceae) de Mesoamrica con flores blancas, amarillentas o color crema. Se provee una clave para su identificacin. Estas especies estn restringidas al norte de Mesoamrica. Entre ellas, Jacquinia sak-lol Carnevali, Hernndez-Aguilar & Tapia-Muoz del estado de Quintana Roo en la Pennsula de Yucatn Mexicana es propuesta como nueva. La nueva entidad es descrita e ilustrada. La nueva especie es afn a Jacquinia paludicola Standley pero es un arbusto, tiene hojas de tamao menor y de textura ms coricea con el margen revoluto y flores mayores. 
10.2307/3392091|A new species, Stenandrium stenophyllum, is described and illustrated. It is related to S. hatschbachii Wasshausen but differs markedly from that taxon by its 3-verticillated leaves with narrow, linear-lanceolate blades. Both species are known only from Gro-Mogol, Minas Gerais, Brazil.
10.2307/3393059|Isoetes mattaponica is a rare quillwort of freshwater tidal rivers of eastern Virginia with a somatic chromosome number of 2n = 22. Megaspores have low rugulate muri on both the proximal and distal surfaces; the girdle is broad. Microspores are echinate-spinose with ornamented spines. Isoetes mattaponica may be one of the parents of several polyploids in the Southeastern United States.
10.2307/3391976|Brachymenium debilinerve differs from B. speciosum by its dark green color, weak costa, well-spaced, flat, caducous leaves having numerous quadrate alar cells, and a weakly developed limbidium. Brachymenium exoticosporum differs from all members of the genus in having massive, mostly linear, endosporic protonemata with mostly vertical end-walls. The endosporic protonemata of B. exoticosporum appear similar to those found in Ephemeropsis trentepohlioides. A key to the 16 species of Brachymenium in Central America is given.
3393310|The new species Polyalthia zhui X. L. Hou & S. J. Li, found from Hainan and southern Guangdong in southern China, is described and illustrated. It has previously been confused with Polyalthia nemoralis A. DC. or P. littoralis (Blume) Boerlage in China, but is distinguished on the basis of its green fleshy ovate petals, outer petals spreading ca. 4 x 2.5 mm, inner petals not fully spreading, somewhat bent to the inside, ca. 5-6 x 4-4.2 mm, 1 mm thick or more, its carpels pilose only in the lower half, and its non-lobed stigma.
10.2307/3391777|Preparation of the Gesneriaceae for the Flora of China has revealed new taxa, including one new genus, Paraisometrum; thirteen new species, Chirita atroglandulosa, C. napoensis, C. pungentisepala, C. pycnantha, C. shouchengensis, C. shuii, C. skogiana, C. wangiana, Didymocarpus subpalmatinervis, Hemiboea wangiana, Opithandra burttii, Oreocharis dentata, Paraisometrum mileense; and seven new combinations, Chirita demissa, Hemiboea subcapitata var. guangdongensis, Lysionotus microphyllus var. omeiensis, Lysionotus pauciflorus var. ikedae, Oreocharis aurea var. cordato-ovata, Paraboea glutinosa, and Tengia scopulorum var. potiflora. The new taxa are described, discussed, and compared with related taxa. The transfer and status changes are justified.
10.2307/3392146|Two new taxa of Fuchsia from northern and central Peru are described and illustrated: Fuchsia rivularis subsp. pubescens P. E. Berry & Hermsen, a member of the large section Fuchsia from Cajamarca, and Fuchsia mezae P. E. Berry & Hermsen, a member of the apetalous section Hemsleyella from Hunuco.
10.2307/3393244|Pseudostellaria sierrae is described as new from northern California. Glabrous stems and leaves, a V-shaped apical notch in each ligulate petal, five yellow anthers, and seeds with minute projections on each tubercle are features useful in distinguishing P. sierrae from P. jamesiana (Torrey) W. A. Weber & R. L. Hartman, the congener widely distributed in the western United States. Pseudostellaria sierrae is found in mixed oak or conifer forests.
20406267|A new species of Senna sect. Chamaefistula (DC. ex Colladon) H. S. Irwin & Barneby is described and illustrated under the name S. bracteosa D. Cardoso & L. P. Queiroz. This new species belongs to series Laxiflorae (Bentham) H. S. Irwin & Barneby and is related to S. lechriosperma H. S. Irwin & Barneby, both presenting a relatively wide pod (8-10 mm wide) and seeds transversely arranged inside the pod. It is distinguished from S. lechriosperma and from any other species of the series Laxiflorae by the lanate indument of the pod, larger bracts, larger flowers, the sepals densely tomentose, and the stamens glabrous. Senna bracteosa seems to be endemic to relictual hills surrounded by caatinga vegetation in the northeastern region of the state of Bahia, near the towns of Quijingue and Tucano, in eastern Brazil.
10.2307/3392149|Five Central American species of Dieffenbachia, D. beachiana Croat & Grayum, D. concinna Croat & Grayum, D. grayumiana Croat, D. hammelii Croat & Grayum, and D. tonduzii Croat & Grayum, as well as one species of Rhodospatha, R. pellucida Croat & Grayum, are described as new.
10.2307/3393105|Griffinia alba is described as new from Tapera, Pernambuco, in northeastern Brazil. It is most similar to the type species for the genus Griffinia, G. hyacinthina, which is known from the states of Rio de Janeiro and So Paulo in southeastern Brazil. It differs from this species by its cuneate leaf bases, and more numerous, entirely white flowers with longer pedicels and narrower tepals. Griffinia alba is the first white-flowered species to be described in submenus Griffinia. /// Griffinia alba  descrita como uma nova espcie do municpio de Tapera, Pernambuco, Brasil. Griffinia alba  mais semelhante na forma  G. hyacinthina, que  encontrada nos estados do Rio de Janiero e So Paulo. Difere desta pela base cuneada da folha, flores inteiramente brancas mais numerosas com pedicelos mais longos, e tpalas mais estreitas. Griffinia alba  a primeira Griffinia com flores cor de branco descrita no sobgnero Griffinia.
10.2307/3392257|Se describen dos especies nuevas del gnero Drosera provenientes de la Guayana Venezolana: Drosera hirticalyx y D. yutajensis. Las especies D. colombiana A. Fernndez y D. panamensis M. D. Correa & A. S. Taylor son consideradas sinnimos de D. cayennensis Sagot ex Diels, mientras que D. esmeraldae (Steyermark) Maguire & Wurdack es citada de Colombia y D. communis A. Saint-Hilaire es excluida de Venezuela. /// Two new species of Drosera are described from the Venezuelan Guayana: D. hirticalyx and D. yutajensis. Drosera colombiana A. Fernndez and D. panamensis M. D. Correa & A. S. Taylor are considered conspecific with D. cayennensis Sagot ex Diels. Drosera esmeraldae (Steyermark) Maguire & Wurdack is reported for Colombia, and the occurrence of D. communis A. Saint-Hilaire in Venezuela is disputed.
3393331|For the Theaceae treatment in the Flora of China, volume 12, it was found that several specific epithets have not yet been validly transferred from Gordonia Ellis to Polyspora Sweet ex G. Don. In this article the following five species are transferred from Gordonia to Polyspora: Polyspora chrysandra (Cowan) Hu ex B. Bartholomew & T. L. Ming, P. hainanensis (Hung T. Chang) C. X. Ye ex B. Bartholomew & T. L. Ming, P. longicarpa (Hung T. Chang) C. X. Ye ex B. Bartholomew & T. L. Ming, P. speciosa (Kochs) B. Bartholomew & T. L. Ming, and P. tonkinensis (Pitard) B. Bartholomew & T. L. Ming. Three species, Gordonia axillaris Roxburgh ex Ker Gawler, Gordonia tonkinensis Pitard, and Thea speciosa Kochs, as well as the one variety Gordonia axillaris var. acuminata E. Pritzel, are lectotypified.
20406266|Following recent phylogenetic work segregating Micranthes Haworth from Saxifraga L. (Saxifragaceae) and to complete the transfer of names from Saxifraga to Micranthes in North America, we are proposing the new combination M. hitchcockiana (Elvander) Brouillet & Gornall. Rsum. Les analyses phylogntiques rcentes ont distingu Micranthes Haworth de Saxifraga L. (Saxifragaceae). Afin de complter le transfert nomenclatural des espces de Saxifraga  Micranthes pour l'Amrique du Nord, nous proposons la nouvelle combinaison M. hitchcockiana (Elvander) Brouillet & Gornall.
3393436| Bulbophyllum boudetiana Fraga (Orchidaceae), a new species from Esprito Santo that grows in saxicolous vegetation mats on an inselberg in the Brazilian Atlantic forest, is described, illustrated, and compared with related species. This new species is related to Bulbophyllum kautskyi, from which it differs by yellow flowers with cream spots, abbreviated rhizomes, aggregate and ovoid pseudobulbs, petals scale-shaped, labellum thick-fleshy, and disc slightly sulcate and ciliate on the base. 
3393355| Field exploration and floristic research have revealed another plant species endemic to the peninsula of Baja California, Mexico. A new shrubby species (Amyris carterae) from the Sierra Guadalupe and Sierra de la Giganta, Baja California Sur, is described here. Distribution, associated vegetation, rarity, affinity to another species in the genus, and a botanical illustration are presented. /// Trabajo de campo e investigacin florstica han puesto de manifiesto una especie de planta endmica de la pennsula de Baja California, Mxico. Un arbusto (Amyris carterae) de la Sierra Guadalupe y Sierra de la Giganta, del estado de Baja California Sur se describe aqu como especie nueva para la ciencia. Se presentan la distribucin, vegetacin asociada, rareza, afinidad con otra especie en el gnero, as como una ilustracin del nuevo taxon. 
10.2307/3392123|The new combination Nageia nankoensis (Hayata) R. R. Mill is proposed, and the affinities of the species with N. formosensis and N. nagi are discussed briefly. Nageia nankoensis is endemic to northern Taiwan, N. formosensis only to the south tip of the island; the latter is not native in northern Taiwan as mis-stated by some authors. It is shown that this error may have arisen because of a wrong citation of the type of N. formosensis by Li, which has been followed in later literature.
40960822|Two new species, Rhododendron huangpingense Xiang Chen & Jia Y. Huang and R. lilacinum Xiang Chen & X. Chen (Ericaceae), from Guizhou Province, China, are described and illustrated. Rhododendron huangpingense is close to the morphologically similar species R. oreodoxa Franch. var. adenostylosum Fang & W. K. Hu and the sympatric species R. decorum Franch., from which it differs by having short yellowish brown hairs on the leaves, the rachis 15-18 mm long, a rose-colored corolla with deep rose flecks, and the stigma ca. 3.5 mm wide. Rhododendron lilacinum differs from the morphologically similar and sympatric species R. simsii Planch, by having smaller leaves, a shorter pedicel, a pale purple corolla, a smaller calyx, and shorter stamens. Both of the new species appear to be quite rare and therefore their conservation is highly desired.
10.2307/3393012|Marsdenia gallardoae, una nueva especie de Asclepiadaceae de Chiapas y Oaxaca del sur de Mxico, se caracteriza por tener el interior de la corola densamente puberulenta y por no presentar un callo en los senos de la misma. Comparte con M. trivirgulata Bartlett caractenstcas foliares y el color de la flor.
10.2307/3391539|Gerritea pseudopetiolata of the tribe Paniceae is described and illustrated. Leaf anatomy of this new genus is also included, and relationships with related genera within the Paniceae are discussed.
40300912|Hechtia caulescens Lpez-Ferrari, Espejo & Martnez-Correa (Bromeliaceae), known from the states of Morelos, Puebla, and Oaxaca in Mexico, is described and illustrated. The new species is compared with H. stenopetala Klotzsch, from which it differs by its larger flowers and floral bracts, and by its twice-branched inflorescences. /// Se describe e ilustra Hechtia caulescens Lpez-Ferrari, Espejo & Martnez-Correa (Bromeliaceae), conocida de los estados de Morelos, Puebla y Oaxaca, Mxico. La nueva especie se compara con H. stenopetala Klotzsch, de la cual difiere por sus flores y bracteas florales ms grandes y por sus inflorescencias ms ramificadas.
20406169|Pseudopiptocarpha garcia-barrigae H. Robinson & S. C. Keeley is described as new, and P. tovarensis (Gleason) H. Robinson & S. C. Keeley of Venezuela (Asteraceae, Vernonieae) is transferred from Lepidaploa (Cassini) Cassini. The new species and P. tovarensis have branching inflorescences unlike the two previously known members of Pseudopiptocarpha H. Robinson. All four species of Pseudopiptocarpha have Aynia H. Robinson-type pollen, which does not occur in Lepidaploa as redelimited. /// Se describe Pseudopiptocarpha garciabarrigae H. Robinson & S. C. Keeley como una nueva especie y se transfiere P. tovarensis (Gleason) H. Robinson & S. C. Keeley (Asteraceae, Vernonieae) desde Lepidaploa (Cassini) Cassini. Ambas especies tienen inflorescencias ramificadas, a differencia de las que presentan las otras dos especies conocidas para el gnero Pseudopiptocarpha H. Robinson. Las cuatro especies de Pseudopiptocarpha tienen polen tipo Aynia Robinson, el cual no se encuentra en Lepidaploa de acuerdo a su nueva circunscripcin.
10.2307/3391402|El gnero Haploclathra, hasta la fecha era desconocido de Per; pero recientes colecciones en la Regin Loreto, han reportado que se encuentra representado por dos especies: una es Haploclathra paniculata var. paniculata, conocida de Brasil; y la otra es Haploclathra cordata, nombre que se propone porque las hojas con base subcordada y el tamao de las inflorescencias y de los frutos indican que se trata de una nueva especie. /// Heretofore, the genus Haploclathra was not known from Peru, but recent collections from the Loreto Region have indicated that in fact two species are represented. One, Haploclathra paniculata var. paniculata, is known from Brazil, and the other, Haploclathra cordata, is a new species described and illustrated herein.
3393309| A new seaside endemic species, Dyckia martinellii B. R. Silva & Forzza, from Rio de Janeiro State, Brazil, is described and illustrated. The genus was represented in this state only by D. pseudococcinea L. B. Smith, from which D. martinellii can be distinguished by a rosette with a larger diameter; longer and wider leaves bearing straight, patent-antrorse larger spines; basal scape bracts densely arranged, with the others longer than or equaling the internodes; floral bracts castaneous, entire, white-lepidote; and sepals orange with a castaneous apex. /// Uma nova espcie endmica do litoral, Dyckia martinellii B. R. Silva & Forzza, do estado do Rio de Janeiro, Brasil  descrita e ilustrada. O gnero estava representado neste estado apenas por D. pseudococcinea L. B. Smith da qual D. martinellii pode ser diferenciada pela roseta de maior dimetro; pelas folhas maiores e mais largas, espinhos patente-antrosos maiores; pelas brcteas basais do escapo congestas as demais maiores ou igualando os entrens; brcteas florais castanhas, inteiras, alvo-lepidotas e pelas spalas laranja com pice castanho. 
10.2307/3391443|As a result of the current general inventory of the flora of Costa Rica, six new species of Acanthaceae are described. Three, Justicia aurantiimutata, J. deaurata, and J. peninsularis, are known only from the Osa Peninsula, or nearby. The other three, Habracanthus tilaranensis, Kalbreyeriella rioquebradasiana, and Razisea villosa, are more widespread but still known only from Costa Rica.
10.2307/3393083|The annual, auriculate-leaved species of Lesquerella (Brassicaceae) of the southeastern United States are transferred to the new genus Paysonia. The new combinations Paysonia auriculata, P. densipila, P. grandiflora, P. lasiocarpa, P. lasiocarpa subsp. berlandieri, P. lasiocarpa subsp. heterochroma, P. lescurii, P. lyrata, P. perforata, and P. stonensis are proposed. The distinguishing characters between the combined taxon Lesquerella-Physaria are discussed. A detailed description of the genus and a key to the species are provided.
40300916|Onobrychis kuchanensis Ranjbar, Hajmoradi & Karamian, a singular new species endemic to Iran, is described and illustrated. The new species belongs to Onobrychis Miller subgen. Sisyrosema (Bunge) Grossheim sect. Hymenobrychis DC Onobry chis kuchanensis is distributed in Khorasan Province in northeastern Iran. It is closely related to O. amoena Popov & Vvedensky and is distinguished by its corolla neither distinctly striate nor purple maculate and its calyx shorter than 5 mm. The conservation status is evaluated as Vulnerable (VU) according to IUCN Red List criteria. Moreover, O. amoena subsp. meshhedensis Sirjaev & Rechinger is raised to specific rank as O. meshhedensis (Sirjaev & Rechinger) Ranjbar on the basis of morphological evidence. Relationships between both species and their closest relatives are discussed.
10.2307/3393176|During preparation of the account of Dioscoreaceae for the Flora of China, it was noticed that one species is illegitimately named, being a later homonym: Dioscorea parviflora C. T. Ting (1979), not Philippi (1864). The following new name (nomen novum) is therefore proposed here: D. sinoparviflora C. T. Ting, M. G. Gilbert & Turland.
10.2307/3392113|A key to and some remarks on Maprounea in the Neotropics are presented. Maprounea guianensis var. obtusata is discussed and raised to specific rank with the new name Maprounea amazonica. Maprounea brasiliensis is accepted as distinct from M. guianensis. The taxa are separated mainly by characters of the leaves and by fruit size. Additionally, Maprounia glauca is established as a new synonym of Mabea taquari, and a lectotype is designated for the latter.
3393450|Four new species of Nasa ser. Alatae (Urban & Gilg) Weigend are described from the Amotape-Huancabamba Zone in northern Peru. The new species Nasa stolonifera has extensive underground stolons and forms clonal stands, whereas N. victorii has angular stems with elevated longitudinal ridges. New species Nasa pongalamesa and N. lambayequensis are closely allied to N. carnea from northern Peru and N. loxensis from Ecuador. Nasa amaluzensis Weigend, previously only known from the type collection in southern Ecuador, is reported as new to the Peruvian flora. The flowers of Nasa ser. Alatae are discussed as funnel-revolver flowers, based on their morphology. A distribution map of the newly described taxa and a key to all known species of Nasa ser. Alatae in Peru are provided.
20406132|Five new suffrutescent to shrubby Jaltomata Schlechtendal species (Solanaceae) of the department of Cajamarca, Peru, are described and illustrated. Jaltomata contumacensis S. Leiva & Mione has a light green, urceolate-tubular corolla and grows in the province of Contumaz between 2530 and 3000 m; J. lanata S. Leiva & Mione has a whitish purple to pale purple, short-tubular corolla and grows in the province of San Pablo between 1850 and 2400 m; J. leivae Mione has a red-violet, urceolate corolla containing red nectar and grows in the province of Contumaz between 2560 and 2650 m; J. oppositifolia S. Leiva & Mione has a white, broadly infundibular to rotate corolla and grows in province Chota between 2250 and 3090 m; and J. yacheri Mione & S. Leiva has a blue-purple, urceolate corolla and grows in province Hualgayoc at 3460 m. The fruits of two of these species are eaten by people.
20406165|A new endemic species of Solanum L. sect. Holophylla (G. Don) Walpers s.l. is described from Ecuador: Solanum coalitum S. Knapp is only known from the paramo of Cerro Toledo in Parque Nacional Podocarpus in the province of Loja. Solanum coalitum had been confused with the more widespread S. stenophyllum Dunal; its differences from that species are detailed and its species group membership and potential relationships within section Holophylla are discussed. The species is illustrated and given a preliminary conservation assessment of Endangered. /// Se describe una especie nueva de Solanum L. seccin Holophylla (G. Don) Walpers s.l. endmica del Ecuador: Solanum coalitum S. Knapp se conoce nicamente del pramo del Cerro Toledo en el Parque Nacional Podocarpus en la provincia de Loja. Solanum coalitum ha sido confundida con S. stenophyllum Dunal, una especie de distribucin ms amplia; se detalla sus diferencias con esa especie y se discute el grupo de especies al que pertenece y las relaciones potenciales dentro de la seccin Holophylla. Se ilustra la especie y se le atribuye un estado de conservacin preliminar de En Peligro.
20406192|Thirty Neotropical Miconia Ruiz & Pavn taxa described by Naudin and available in BR or P have been lectotypified: M. alternans Naudin, M. amygdalina Naudin, M. anceps Naudin, M. axilliflora Naudin, M. brachystyla Naudin, M. bracteolaris Naudin, M. claussenii Naudin, M. fothergilla (DC.) Naudin var. gracilipes Naudin, M. impetiolaris (Swartz) D. Don var. pandurifolia Naudin, M. lucida Naudin, M. melanodendron Naudin, M. molybdea Naudin, M. myriocarpa Naudin, M. myrtillifolia Naudin, M. obovalis Naudin, M. otodesma Naudin, M. plukenetii Naudin, M. proteoides A. Saint-Hilaire & Naudin, M. rhamnoidea Naudin, M. rhytidophylla Naudin, M. riedelii Naudin, M. rivoeriae Naudin, M. stellifera Naudin, M. stipularis Naudin, M. tentaculifera Naudin, M. tococoides Naudin, M. versicolor Naudin, M. verticilliflora Steudel ex Naudin, Octomeris macrodon Naudin, and Staphidium triste Richard ex Naudin. /// Neste trabalho foram lectotipificados trinta txons neotropicais pertencentes a Miconia Ruiz & Pavn, descritos por Naudin e depositados em BR ou P: M. alternans Naudin, M. amygdalina Naudin, M. anceps Naudin, M. axilliflora Naudin, M. brachystyla Naudin, M. bracteolaris Naudin, M. claussenii Naudin, M. fothergilla (DC.) Naudin var. gracilipes Naudin, M. impetiolaris (Swartz) D. Don var. pandurifolia Naudin, M. lucida Naudin, M. melanodendron Naudin, M. molybdea Naudin, M. myriocarpa Naudin, M. myrtillifolia Naudin, M. obovalis Naudin, M. otodesma Naudin, M. plukenetii Naudin, M. proteoides A. Saint-Hilaire & Naudin, M. rhamnoidea Naudin, M. rhytidophylla Naudin, M. riedelii Naudin, M. rivoeriaeNaudin, M. stellifera Naudin, M. stipularis Naudin, M. tentaculifera Naudin, M. tococoides Naudin, M. versicolor Naudin, M. verticilliflora Steudel ex Naudin, Octomeris macrodon Naudin e Staphidium triste Richard ex Naudin.
10.2307/3393009|Two new species of Commelinaceae are described from the Neotropics. Dichorisandra amabilis J. R. Grant, widespread from southern Mexico to Panama, consists of erect herbs formerly included in D. hexandra (Aublet) Standley, which is here restricted to scandent plants. Tradescantia petricola J. R. Grant, disjunct from Costa Rica to Venezuela, belongs to Tradescantia sect. Mandonia D. R. Hunt.
10.2307/3392026|Pitcairnia mirandae Utley & Burt-Utley (Bromeliaceae) is described as new from the state of Chiapas in Mexico. This new species is compared with P. breedlovei Lyman B. Smith, which it most closely resembles.
10.2307/3392121|L'tude des caractres morphologiques permet la description de trois espces nouvelles d'Oleaceae de l'Archipel des Comores: Noronhia cochleata Labat, M. Pignal & O. Pascal, Chionanthus cordifolius Labat, M. Pignal & O. Pascal et C. insularis Labat, M. Pignal & O. Pascal. Les oliviers sauvages de l'Archipel sont pour la premire fois rattachs  Olea capensis L. s.l. /// Morphological characters support the description of three new species of Oleaceae from the Comoro Archipelago: Noronhia cochleata Labat, M. Pignal & O. Pascal, Chionanthus cordifolius Labat, M. Pignal & O. Pascal, and C. insularis Labat, M. Pignal & O. Pascal. For the first time the Archipelago "Wild Olive Tree" is identified as Olea capensis L. s.l.
23259429|Ligustrum guangdongense R. J. Wang & H. Z. Wen (Oleaceae), from Guangdong, China, is described and illustrated. The new species is similar to L. punctifolium M. C. Chang and L. morrisonense Kaneh. & Sasaki, based on the small leaf blades and terminal inflorescences. Ligustrum guangdongense differs from L. punctifolium by having sparsely punctate glands on the abaxial leaf blade surface (vs. densely so), a corolla tube longer than the corolla lobes (1.61.9:1 vs. 1.11.3:1), and stamens that are included within (vs. exserted). Ligustrum guangdongense differs from L. morrisonense by having abaxially punctate leaf blades (vs. not punctate), typically 12 to 28 flowers in an inflorescence (vs. two or three), and a corolla tube that is shorter relative to the corolla lobes. The pollen grains of the new species are subprolate, with tricolpate apertures and a reticulate exine. The IUCN conservation status of L. guangdongense is assessed as Critically Endangered (CR).
20406060|Phainantha shuariorum (Melastomataceae) from sandstone mountains of the Cordillera del Cndor region in southeastern Ecuador is described and illustrated; it is a disjunct species in a genus that is otherwise known only from the Guayana Shield region of northeastern South America. It resembles P. laxiflora and P. maguirei, with which it shares the climbing, twining habit, adventitious roots at the stem nodes, and leaves alternate by abortion of one leaf per pair, but from which it differs in the tri-nerved venation. /// describe e ilustra Phainantha shuariorum (Melastomataceae) de las montaas de arenisca de la regin de la Cordillera del Cndor en el sudeste de Ecuador; es una especie disyunta de un gnero que, de otra forma, slo se conoce del Escudo Guayans en el nordeste de Amrica del Sur. Se parece a P. laxiflora y P. maguirei por el hbito trepador y voluble, las races adventicias en los nudos del tallo y las hojas alternas por aborto de una de las hojas de cada par; pero se distingue de ambas por tener la nervadura trinerve.
20406170|Verbascum azerbaijanense Sharifnia & Assadi is described and illustrated as a new species. This new species occurs in northwest Iran (Azerbaijan province). It is related to V. geminiflorum Hochstetter but is distinguished from it by the length of the inflorescence, the glandular hairs of the calyx, and the absence of fertile bracteoles.
10.2307/3391849|Pegaeophyton nepalense is described and illustrated. Its relationship to the other species of Pegaeophyton is discussed.
40856301|A new species, Pandanus ankaranensis Callm. & Laivao (Pandanaceae), is described from the karst region of Ankarana in northern Madagascar. It resembles P. grallatus B. C. Stone, another member of Pandanus sect. Mammillares H. St. John occurring in the area. The new taxon can be distinguished by its larger and wider leaves that are persistent on the branches, the stipe often lying on the rocks where plants grow, and its larger syncarps. Pandanus ankaranensis is classified as Vulnerable based on IUCN Red List criteria. Une nouvelle espce, Pandanus ankaranensis Callm. & Laivao (Pandanaceae), est dcrite de la rgion karstique de l'Ankarana au nord de Madagascar. Elle est proche de P. grallatus B. C. Stone, une autre espce de Pandanus sect. Mammillares H. St. John qui pousse dans la rgion, mais s'en distingue par des feuilles plus longues et plus larges qui sont persistantes sur les branches, le stipe souvent couch sur les rochers et par les dimensions de son syncarpe. Pandanus ankaranensis est class Vulnrable selon le Liste Rouge de l'UICN.
3393443|The new species of Miliusa tirunelvelica (Annonaceae), collected from the Kalakkad-Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve on the Western Ghats of Tamil Nadu, is described and illustrated. It is distinguished by the pubescence on branchlets, petioles, and pedicels; by the shape of the stamen's connective and monocarp apices; and by its stipitate fruit, with the stipe to 20 mm.
10.2307/3392216|The new combination Jaltomata chihuahuensis (Bitter) Mione & Bye is based on Saracha chihuahuensis Bitter. This species is distributed in Mexico at the northern end of the Sierra Madre Occidental in the states of Chihuahua, Durango, and Sonora. Morphological characters, artificial hybridizations, and distinct names applied by the Tarahumara, all indicate that J. chihuahuensis is distinct from the more widely distributed but sympatric J. procumbens. Fruits of J. chihuahuensis are consumed raw by the Tarahumara people and are either purple or green at maturity. Chromosome number: n = 12.
10.2307/3391553|Antiostelma (Asclepiadaceae), previously recognized as a section of Hoya, is raised to generic rank. The new combinations Antiostelma lantsangense (Tsiang & P. T. Li) P. T. Li and A. manipurense (D. B. Deb) P. T. Li are proposed.
3393350| Se describe e ilustra Werauhia anitana (Bromeliaceae), una nueva especie de Costa Rica, con inflorescencias dsticas y brcteas punteadoverrucosas, densamente imbricadas an despus de la antesis. Se discuten las relaciones con los taxones relacionados (i.e., W. osaensis, W. viridiflora). /// Werauhia anitana (Bromeliaceae), a new species from Costa Rica with distichous inflorescences, and punctate-verrucose and densely imbricate bracts (after anthesis), is described and illustrated. Relationships with related taxa (i.e., W. osaensis, W. viridiflora) are given. 
41811685|Agave temacapulinensis A. Vzquez & Chzaro (Agavaceae) is described and illustrated from Jalisco, Mexico. The new species belongs to Agave L. subg. Agave and is a member of the Ditepalae group, sensu Gentry. It is related to A. wocomahi Gentry in terms of its rosette size, solitary habit in most cases, the smooth texture of the leaves, the red-tipped dimorphic tepals, and the deep floral tube. Agave temacapulinensis differs from A. wocomahi in having light gray, glaucous rosettes (vs. dark green to glaucous green); short acuminate leaves (vs.long acuminate); crenate margins (vs. straight to undulate) with smaller marginal teeth (8-10 mm vs. 10-20 mm); larger panicles (5.5-6.5 m vs. 3-5 m) with more lateral branches (16 to 18 vs. 8 to 15); and smaller seeds (5-6  3-4 mm vs. 7  4.5-5 mm). Una nueva especie, Agave temacapulinensis A. Vzquez & Chzaro (Agavaceae), es descrita e ilustrada de Jalisco, Mexico. Pertenece a Agave L. subg. Agave y corresponde al grupo Ditepalae sensu Gentry. La especie est relacionada con A. wocomahi Gentry en trminos de tamao de roseta, hbito no surculoso en la mayora de los casos, textura suave de las hojas, tpalos dimrficos con puntas rojizas y tubo floral profundo, pero difiere de sta ultima por poseer rosetas de color glauco-gris claro (vs. verde oscuro-verde glauco); hojas cortamente acuminadas (vs. largamente acuminadas); mrgenes crenados (vs. rectos a ondulados); con dientes ms pequeos (8-10 mm vs. 10-20 mm); panculas ms grandes (5.5-6.5 m vs. 3-5 m) con ms ramas laterales (16 a 18 vs. 8 a 15); y semillas ms pequeas (5-6  3-4 mm vs. 7  4.5-5 mm).
10.2307/3393178|Begonia salesopolensis and B. jureiensis, known only from a montane forest in the state of So Paulo, Brazil, are described and illustrated. The former belongs to section Ewaldia, but it is distinguished from the other taxa of this section by its fleshy capsules with rudimentary or absent wings. The flattened style branches, obconical anthers, and the bilamellate placentae, ovuliferous throughout place B. jureiensis in section Pereira, and the peltate, glabrous leaf blades distinguish it from the other species of this section, B. edmundoi Brade. /// Begonia salesopolensis e B. jureiensis, conhecidas apenas para a Serra do Mar no Estado de So Paulo, so descritas e ilustradas. A primeira distinguese das demais espcies da Seo Ewaldia pelas cpsulas carnosas com alas rudimentares ou ausentes. Os ramos do estilete achatados e as anteras obcnicas enquadram B. jureiensis na seo Pereira, e suas folhas peltadas e glabras diferenciam-na da outra espcie desta seo, B. edmundoi Brade.
20406159|Astragalus darwinianus Gmez-Sosa, a new endemic species (Leguminoseae, Galegeae) from the south of Argentina, is described, illustrated, and compared with the morphologically similar A. patagonicus (Philippi) Spegazzini based on vegetative characteristics and with A. mendocinus Gmez-Sosa based on fruit morphology. The new entity has decumbent stems, racemes that are (2)3- to 4-flowered, and legumes that are unilocular, incurved, and incanous pubescent. /// Astragalus darwinianus Gmez-Sosa, una nueva especie endmica del sur de Argentina, se describe, ilustra y se compara con A. patagonicus (Philippi) Spegazzini con las que comparte caractersticas vegetativas y con A. mendocinus Gmez-Sosa similares por la morfologa del fruto. El nuevo ejemplar tiene tallos decumbentes, racimos con (2)3-4 flores, legumbre unilocular, incurva e incano pubescente.
10.2307/3391970|A new species of Inga, discovered by one of the authors (HV), is described and named as Inga megaphylla Poncy & Vester. The architecture of this small understory cauliflorous tree is described and compared with that of another understory species recently described from French Guiana, Inga retinocarpa Poncy.
40300915|A new species of Diandrolyra Stapf (Poaceae, Bambusoideae, Olyreae), D. pygmaea Soderstrom & Zuloaga ex R. P. Oliveira & L. G. Clark, from Bahia, Brazil, is described and illustrated. This species is known only from southern Bahia, growing in the Atlantic Forest region. It is compared and contrasted with its congeners, D. bicolor Stapf and D. tatianae Soderstrom & Zuloaga, and the Bahian distribution of the three species is mapped. Distinguishing features of D. pygmaea include its small stature and two (or three) pairs of spikelets per racemose inflorescence. /// Uma nova espcie de Diandrolyra Stapf (Poaceae, Bambusoideae, Olyreae), D. pygmaea Soderstrom & Zuloaga ex R. P. Oliveira & L. G. Clark, para a Bahia, Brazil, est sendo descrita e ilustrada. Esta espcie  conhecida apenas para o sudeste da Bahia, crescendo em reas de Mata Atlantica higrfila. Est sendo comparada com as outras espcies congenricas, D. bicolor Stapf e D. tatianae Soderstrom & Zuloaga, e a distribuio das tres especies na Bahia  mapeada. Caractersticas distintivas de D. pygmaea incluem sua pequena estatura e dois (ou trs) pares de espiguetas por inflorescncia racemosa.
10.2307/3393155|Based on morphological, anatomical, and molecular evidence, the Brazilian endemic grass Arthropogon lanceolatus is reclassified in the newly described, monotypic genus Canastra. Canastra lanceolata is illustrated, and the genus is compared with the putatively related taxa in the Paniceae: Altoparadisium, Achlaena, Homolepis, Streptostachys, Panicum sects. Laxa, Lorea, and Prionitia, and Cliffordiochloa.
10.2307/3392085|A new name, Geranium tanii Aedo & Muoz Garmendia, is proposed for the illegitimate later homonym Geranium trifoliatum Z. M. Tan.
41811686|Pseudosporochnus Potoni & Bernard (1904; fossil Cladoxylopsida) has been viewed as one of the iconic vascular plants in the Middle Devonian, but the type of the generic name remains problematic. Although P. verticillatus (Krej) Obrhel has been previously regarded as the type of the generic name, its so-called basionym Chondrites verticillatus Krej was not validly published and thereby has no nomenclatural status. Thus, the specific epithet verticillatus has no priority over krejcii, which Potoni and Bernard first used (1904) for the species of Pseudosporochnus, and the combination P. verticillatus was not validly published. The name P. verticillatus that Obrhel intended to combine in 1961 is rather a new species name and should be cited as P. verticillatus Krej ex Obrhel. However, P. verticillatus, when published (Obrhel, 1961), was an illegitimate superfluous name for P. krejcii (Stur) Potoni & Bernard. Both names attach to a lectotype designated by Obrhel (i.e., D-364, National Museum at Prague) and were originally used under the name Sporochnus krejcii Stur. Pseudosporochnus krejcii (Stur) Potoni & Bernard should be the type of Pseudosporochnus Potoni & Bernard.
10.2307/3391568|Senecio serranus from Paran, Brazil, is described as new.It is related to Senecio dichrous (Bong.) Schultz-Bip., but does not have glandular hairs and does have leaves of the same color on both surfaces. Both species belong to Senecio sect. Dichroa Cabr. and unlike all other ones of the section, have rayless heads with only one type of floret.
10.2307/3393088|A new species and a new subspecies of Tidestromia are described and illustrated. Tidestromia valdesiana, restricted to Coahuila, Mexico, is characterized by the absence of an involucre and tepals lanceolate, aristate at the apex with a prominent midnerve and subulate trichomes. Tidestromia lanuginosa subsp. eliassoniana is characterized by having trichomes with the terminal cell projections either irregular (as those of the subsp. lanuginosa) or spreading, and microspinulose pollen, which is unique within the genus. A distribution map for the two recognized subspecies of T. lanuginosa is provided. The new combination T. suffruticosa var. oblongifolia is proposed, and T. oblongifolia subsp. cryptantha is reduced to synonymy under the former; both names are lectotypified. /// Se describen e ilustran una especie y una subespecie nuevas de Tidestromia. Tidestromia valdesiana, endmica de Coahuila, Mxico, se caracteriza por los tpalos lanceolados de pice aristado con la vena media prominente y tricomas subulados, as como por no tener involucro. Tidestromia lanuginosa subsp. eliassoniana se caracteriza por tener tricomas con proyecciones de las clulas terminales irregulares (como en la subsp. lanuginosa) o patentes, as como polen microespinuloso que es nico en el gnero. Se incluye un mapa de distribucin de las dos subespecies reconocidas de T. lanuginosa. Adems se propone la combinacin nueva T. suffruticosa var. oblongifolia, reducindose como sinnimo T. oblongifolia subsp. cryptantha; ambos nombres son lectotipificados.
10.2307/3392196|Se describe e ilustra la especie nueva Rudgea grandifructa C. M. Taylor & M. Monsalve y se amplian las descripciones de las especies poco conocidas Psychotria megistophylla Standley y Rudgea colombiana Standley. Estas especies provienen de la regin fitogeogrfica del Choc, y el trabajo se basa principalmente en especmenes colectados para el inventario florstico de la regin de Bajo Calima, Valle, Colombia. /// The new species Rudgea grandifructa C. M. Taylor & M. Monsalve is described and illustrated, and expanded descriptions are presented for the poorly known species Psychotria megistophylla Standley and Rudgea colombiana Standley. All are from the Choc phytogeographic region; this work is based on specimens collected for the floristic inventory of the Bajo Calima region, Valle, Colombia.
10.2307/3392967|Six new species of Palicourea Aublet are described and illustrated: P. calophlebioides from Costa Rica differs from P. calophlebia Standley of the Andes in part by its purple inflorescences; P. ianthina from western Panama differs from P. chiriquina Standley of the same region in part by its purple inflorescences and longer calyx limbs; P. premontana from Ecuador differs from P. semirasa Standley of Venezuela and Bolivia in part by its glabrous corollas; P. quinquepyrena from northern Peru is closely related to P. ulloana C. M. Taylor of Ecuador but differs from that species in part by its larger, subsessile leaves; P. roseofaucis from western Panama differs from P. sulphurea (Ruiz & Pavn) DC. of the Andes in part by its white to pink corollas; and P. stellata from eastcentral Colombia, with yellow flowers, is unusual in its well-developed fleshy appendages on the corolla lobes.
20406303|Two new combinations are proposed in Syringa L. (Oleaceae) based on examination of specimens, population sampling, and character analysis: S. tomentella Bureau & Franchet subsp. yunnanensis (Franchet) Jin Y. Chen & D. Y. Hong, and S. tomentella subsp. sweginzowii (Koehne & Lingelsheim) Jin Y. Chen & D. Y. Hong. Syringa wilsonii C. K. Schneider is treated as a synonym of S. tomentella subsp. sweginzowii. The lectotype of S. sweginzowii Koehne & Lingelsheim is designated.
10.2307/3392986|Se describen e ilustran dos nuevas especies ecuatorianas de Acalypha L., A. websteri y A. stellata, y se comentan las principales diferencias con las especies afines. Se proponen tambin seis nuevos sinnimos de cuatro especies presentes en Ecuador. /// Two new species of Acalypha L. are described and illustrated, A. websteri and A. stellata, based on Ecuadorian material. Comments on the systematics of related species are included. As well, six new synonyms are proposed for four Ecuadorian species.
10.2307/3391433|Pottia fosbergii, of the southwestern United States and Mexico, is recognized at the varietal level: P. starkeana var. fosbergii.
10.2307/3393085|The Latin diagnosis of Oxypetalum rusticum Rapini is provided to validate the species, proposed but not validly published in the survey of the Asclepiadoideae from the Espinhao Range of Minas Gerais, Brazil. The species, endemic to the Diamantina Plateau, is closely related to O. insigne (Decaisne) Malme and O. glabrum (Decaisne) Malme, differing mainly by the wooly indumentum of the branches and the longer corpusculum of the pollinaria.
23018440|A new species, Castanopsis glabrifolia J. Q. Li & Li Chen, and one new name, C. hsiensiui (X. M. Chen & B. P. Yu) J. Q. Li & Li Chen (Fagaceae), are described from Hainan, China. They both grow on sandy beaches. Castanopsis glabrifolia is closely related to C. chinensis (Spreng.) Hance, differing from it by having smaller leaves, shorter petioles, fewer secondary veins, and smaller cupules that are incompletely covered by shorter spines. Castanopsis chinensis var. hainanica X. M. Chen & B. P. Yu is treated as a new synonym of C. glabrifolia. The new name C. hsiensiui is proposed, based on C. hainanensis Merr. var. litoralis X. M. Chen & B. P. Yu, with the variety recognized at higher rank based on its glabrous branches and petioles, the smaller cupules with the external surfaces visible, and the nuts that are glabrous or sparsely pubescent near the apex.
27765239|Eight Andean species of Symplocos Jacq. (Symplocaceae) are described as new to science. They include: S. condorensis B. Sthl, S. neillii B. Sthl, and S. vanderwerffii B. Sthl from southern Ecuador (Zamora-Chinchipe and Morona-Santiago provinces); S. golondrinae B. Sthl from northern Ecuador (Carchi Province); S. guacamayensis B. Sthl from east-central Ecuador (Napo Province); S. fragilis B. Sthl and S. ovata B. Sthl from northern Peru (Amazonas Department); and S. dolichopoda B. Sthl from southern Peru (Cusco Department). Symplocos spruceana (Miers) Grke and S. nuda Humb. & Bonpl. are reported as new to Ecuador and Peru, respectively.
10.2307/3393267|A new species in Rubiaceae (Gardenieae), Rothmannia daweishanensis Y. M. Shui & W. H. Chen, is described from Yunnan, China. Its diagnostic characters and close relationship with Rothmannia vietnamensis Tirvengadum are discussed.
3393402| A new species of Schwartzia, S. pterosara, is validated. This species is known only from the vicinity of Baeza, Napo Province, Ecuador. A key to and a synopsis of the Ecuadorean species of Schwartzia are provided. Four Schwartzia species are presently recognized from Ecuador, with S. chocoensis and S. diaz-piedrahitae as first records for the country. /// Se valida una nueva especie de Schwartzia, S. pterosara. La nueva especie se conoce nicamente de los alrededores de Baeza en la Provincia de Napo (Ecuador). Se presentan una clave y una sinopsis para las especies ecuatorianas de Schwartzia. As, Schwartzia est representado en Ecuador por cuatro especies, siendo registradas por primera vez para el pas S. chocoensis y S. diazpiedrahitae. 
23259427|A key to and descriptions of the seven species of Ocotea Aubl. (Lauraceae) with bisexual flowers and fistulose twigs occurring in the Andes are presented. Of the seven species, five are newly described: O. beekmanii van der Werff, O. cuatrecasasii van der Werff, both from Colombia, O. fistulosa van der Werff from Ecuador, O. magnifrons van der Werff described from Ecuador and also in Colombia, and O. obovatifolia van der Werff from Ecuador.
10.2307/3392069|Alyxia fosbergii, endemic to Henderson Island, and Glochidion comitum, endemic to Pitcairn, are here described as new.
10.2307/3393039|Licania Adolphoduckei and L. sothersiae from the Reserva Florestal Adolpho Ducke near Manaus, Brazil, are described as new, and their relationship within the genus is discussed.
10.2307/3393568|The following new species are proposed: Cladocolea nitida Kuijt, C. peruviensis Kuijt, Struthanthus andersonii Kuijt, S. lewisii Kuijt, S. longibracteatus Kuijt, and S. tortistylus Kuijt (Loranthaceae), Dendrophthora equisetoides Kuijt, D. harlingii Kuijt, and D. meridana Kuijt (Viscaeae). Additionally, two transfers are made, one to Cladocolea, C. alternifolia (Eichler) Kuijt (Loranthaceae), and one to Dendrophthora, D. warmingii (Eichler) Kuijt.
20406220|Se describen e ilustran tres nuevas especies de Bulbostylis Kunth (Cyperaceae) de Sudamrica: B. asper M. G. Lpez del noreste de Argentina y centro del Paraguay oriental, esta especie fue confundida con B. hirtella (Schrader ex Schultes) Nees ex Urban; B. guaglianoneae M. G. Lpez de Misiones, Argentina, es afn a B. sphaerocephala (Boeckeler) Lindman; y B. subtilis M. G. Lpez del noreste de Argentina, centro-oeste de Bolivia, sudeste de Brasil y Paraguay oriental, que se asemeja a B. loefgrenii (Boeckeler) Prata & M. G. Lpez. /// Three new species of Bulbostylis Kunth (Cyperaceae) from South America are described and illustrated: B. aspera M. G. Lpez of Argentina and the center of eastern Paraguay, which was previously confused with B. hirtella (Schrader ex Schultes) Nees ex Urban; B. guaglianoneae M. G. Lpez of Misiones, Argentina, which is related to B. sphaerocephala (Boeckeler) Lindman; and B. subtilis M. G. Lpez of northeastern Argentina, center-west Bolivia, southeastern Brazil, and eastern Paraguay, which resembles B. loefgrenii (Boeckeler) Prata & M. G. Lpez.
10.2307/3391894|Amyris oblanceolata, a new species from northwestern Nicaragua, is described, and its relationships to other Central American species with opposite, trifoliolate leaves are discussed.
40856322|Myrcia concisa Sobral & Leoni, a new species of Myrtaceae from rainforests of the southeastern Brazilian state of Minas Grais, is described, illustrated, and evaluated for its conservation status according to IUCN criteria. The new species is apparently related to M. pubescens DC, from which it is set apart by the narrower blades and uniflorous to triflorous inflorescences. Myrcia concisa Sobral & Leoni, urna nova especie de Myrtaceae das florestas ombrfilas do estado de Minas Gerais, na regio sudeste do Brasil,  descrita, ilustrada e avahada em seu status de conservaao de acord com os criterios da IUCN. A nova especie  considerada prxima a M. pubescens DC, da qual se distingue pelas lminas mais estreitas e inflorescencias unifloras ou trifloras.
40300954|A distinctive new species from the Neotropics, Rinorea zygomorpha H. E. Ballard & Wahlert (Violaceae), is described and illustrated. It has several character states unique to Neotropical Rinorea Aublet, including a strongly zygomorphic corolla and single-seeded capsule, which distinguish it from other New World species. The new species is also aberrant in several respects in the family, with bifid dorsal connective appendages, stipitate ovary and fruit, and lateral attachment on the laterally compressed seed. A key is presented to separate this new species from other Neotropical members of Rinorea. An assessment of IUCN status using Arc-View GIS software with georeferenced localities places the new species in the Least Concern category.
20406218|Oryctina costaricensis Kuijt (Loranthaceae), from the Osa Peninsula of Costa Rica, is described and illustrated. It represents the first record of the genus in Mesoamerica, the remainder of the genus being South American.
40300948|En el presente trabajo, proponemos la nueva combinacin Hofmeisterella falcata (Linden & Reichenbach f.) Nauray & A. Galn para la flora colombiana. Esta especie difiere de H. eumicroscopica (Reichenbach f.) Reichenbach f. por sus flores con spalos y ptalos ms anchos y por el ginostemo y el labelo con cerdas conspicuas. En consecuencia, el gnero Hofmeisterella Reichenbach f. est formado por dos especies, y no es un gnero monoespecfico. Adems, se designa formalmente el lectotipo de Telipogon falcatus Linden & Reichenbach f. /// In this work, we propose the new combination Hofmeisterella falcata (Linden & Reichenbach f.) Nauray & A. Galn for use in the Colombian flora. This species differs from H. eumicroscopica Reichenbach f. by its flowers with wider sepals and petals and by its column and labellum with conspicuous bristles. Consequently, the genus Hofmeisterella Reichenbach f. consists of two species and is no longer a monospecific genus. Moreover, the lectotype of Telipogon falcatus Linden & Reichenbach f. is formally designated.
10.2307/3391534|New combinations are made for 10 taxa formerly included in the genus Porana s.l. in the account of the Convolvulaceae for the Flora Reipublicae Popularis Sinicae, which are now considered to belong in the genera Dinetus, Paranopsis, and Tridynamia, as follows: Dinetus decorus, D. dinetoides, D. duclouxii, D. grandiflorus, D. truncatus, Poranopsis discifera, P. sinensis, Tridynamia megalantha, T. sinensis var. sinensis, and T. sinensis var. delavayi. A key to the genera is provided, and 11 additional taxa formerly accepted in Porana are reduced to synonymy.
40300889|Nitidobulbon Ojeda, Carnevali & G. A. Romero, a new genus of the Maxillariinae (Orchidaceae), is described and illustrated. Its circumscription is supported by morphological, anatomical, and molecular evidence. The three species of Nitidobulbon are characterized by long flower peduncles, smooth, shiny pseudobulbs, and distinctive leaf anatomy. We present a taxonomic key to differentiate Nitidobulbon from related genera and also provide a key to the species within the genus. Three new combinations are established: N. cymbidioides (Dodson, J. T. Atwood & Carnevali) Ojeda & G. A. Romero, N. nasutum (Reichenbach f.) Ojeda & Carnevali, and N. proboscideum (Reichenbach f.) Ojeda & Carnevali. In synonymy to N. nasutum, the name Maxillaria oxysepala Schlechter is lectotypified /// Nitidobulbon Ojeda, Carnevali & G. A. Romero, un nuevo gnero de Maxillariinae (Orchidaceae), es descrito e ilustrado. Su circunscripcin se apoyada en evidencia morfolgica, anatomica y molecular. Las tres especies de Nitidobulbon se caracterizan por largos pediinculos florales, seudobulbos lisos y brillantes, y por una anatoma foliar distintiva. Tambin presentamos una clave para diferenciar Nitidobulbon de gneros emparentados, otra para las especies del genero y proponemos tres nuevas combinaciones: N cymbidioides (Dodson, J. T. Atwood & Carnevali) Ojeda & G. A. Romero, N. nasutum (Reichenbach f.) Ojeda & Carnevali y N proboscideum (Reichenbach f.) Ojeda & Carnevali. En la sinonimia a TV. nasutum, el nombre Maxillaria oxysepala Schlechter es lectotipificado.
3393498|Based on characters of the fruit, seed, and embryo, five new combinations in Gossia N. Snow & Guymer (Myrtaceae) are proposed for species occurring in New Guinea, Vanuatu, or the Solomon Islands. These species previously all had been placed in Myrtus L. or Austromyrtus Burret. A lectotype is selected for Gossia aneityensis. A key is provided for the Melanesian species of Gossia.
10.2307/3392038|Six new species, Neurolepis asymmetrica, N. fimbriligulata, N. laegaardii, N. nana, N. rigida, and N. villosa, are described and illustrated. Two subspecies are recognized within N. fimbriligulata: N. fimbriligulata subsp. peruviana and subsp. fimbriligulata. All taxa except for N. fimbriligulata subsp. peruviana are endemic to Ecuador; N. fimbriligulata subsp. peruviana is known only from Peru. These species were all formerly included within a broadly defined N. aristata (Munro) Pilger because of the presence of an awn on glumes I and II. A table comparing the six new taxa in Ecuador and N. aristata is provided.
40856284|Saussurea sugongii S. W. Liu & T. N. Ho and S. bartholomeivii S. W. Liu & T. N. Ho (Asteraceae) are described from the Qinghai-Xizang Plateau, China. The two new species are illustrated and compared with their closest relatives.
41811690|A new lycophyte species, Selaginella longistrobilina P. S. Wang, X. Y. Wang & Li Bing Zhang (Selaginellaceae), is described and illustrated from limestone hills in central Guizhou, China. Selaginella longistrobilina is most similar to S. prostrata H. S. Kung in the shape of the microphylls and in the arrangement, shape, and size of the sporophylls. However, the new species has longer strobili to 2.5 cm, and the sporophylls are often navicular adaxially, while S. prostrata has strobili only 3-4 mm, and the sporophylls are flattened adaxially. Selaginella longistrobilina is only known from central Guizhou, while S. prostrata is more widely distributed from Hunan, Sichuan to Yunnan in China. A new combination, S. prostrata (H. S. Kung) Li Bing Zhang, based on Lycopodioides prostrata H. S. Kung, is made and lectotypified herein.
10.2307/3392198|A new species of Passiflora from the Brazilian Atlantic rainforest in the state of So Paulo is described and illustrated. Passiflora loefgrenii is placed in subgenus Passiflora "series" Lobatae. It is vegetatively similar to P. amethystina Mikan and P. eichleriana Masters, the three species occurring sympatrically. Passiflora loefgrenii differs from these species primarily by flower character. At the type locality Passiflora loefgrenii is pollinated by hermit hummingbirds and large bees.
10.2307/3392179|Oreopanax anomalus, with narrow leaves unusually closely packed around the inflorescence and along the branchlets, is described in preparation for treatments in Flora Mesoamericana and A Manual to the Plants of Costa Rica.
20406240|In preparation for the forthcoming Flora of China, volume 3, the new combination Ctenitis dianguiensis (W. M. Chu & H. G. Zhou) S. Y. Dong based on Ataxipteris dianguiensis W. M. Chu & H. G. Zhou (Pteridophyta, Dryopteriaceae) is proposed. In addition, seven scientific names synonymize to C. subglandulosa (Hance) Ching, of which three are new: C. maolanensis P. S. Wang, C. membranifolia Ching & Chu H. Wang, and C. yunnanensis Ching & Chu H. Wang.
10.2307/3391890|A new species of Mouriri, M. laxiflora, from eastern Ecuador is described and illustrated, and a description of Mouriri crassisepala of the Dominican Republic is revised to include flowering material, with illustrations of the flowering parts.
40960829|Two new combinations in the Morinaceae are proposed for the Flora of China: Acanthocalyx nepalensis (D. Don) M. J. Cannon subsp. delavayi (Franch.) D. Y. Hong and Monna ludlowii (M. J. Cannon) D. Y. Hong. Lectotypes are designated for three names in the Valerianaceae, Valeriana daphniflora Hand.-Mazz., V. stenoptera Diels, and V. stenoptera var. cardaminea Hand.-Mazz.
10.2307/3393168|In the course of preparing a treatment of the genus Ocotea for the Flora Mesoamericana the following novelties were found and are published in this contribution: three new combinations, Ocotea amplifolia (Mez & Donnell Smith) van der Werff, O. parvula (Lundell) van der Werff, O. vanderwerffii (Kostermans) van der Werff; and nine new species, O. adela van der Werff, O. atlantica van der Werff, O. darcyi van der Werff, O. haberi van der Werff, O. jefensis van der Werff, O. klepperae van der Werff, O. macrantha van der Werff, O. oblongifolia van der Werff, and O. pullifolia van der Werff.
23259417|Hymenoxys perpygmaea W. C. Holmes, Singhurst & Mink (Asteraceae, Helenieae, Tetraneuridinae) is described as a new annual species. The species, which is ephemeral, is endemic to an alfisol prairie that contains mima mounds in Lamar County from northeastern Texas, U.S.A. It is similar to H. texana (J. M. Coult. & Rose) Cockerell, but is easily distinguished from that species by its diminutive rosette and fewer florets per capitulum.
40300939|Nomenclatural changes in Monardella Bentham (Lamiaceae) are introduced to more accurately circumscribe the specific and subspecific entities in the genus in California. Examination of herbarium specimens and digital images and analysis of biogeographical data from additional fieldwork has revealed morphological continuities and discontinuities. Four new species are described: M. boydii A. C. Sanders & Elvin, M. eremicola A. C. Sanders & Elvin, M. mojavensis Elvin & A. C. Sanders, and M. sinuata Elvin & A. C. Sanders. Five new subspecies are described: M. australis Abrams subsp. jokerstii Elvin & A. C. Sanders, M. hypoleuca A. Gray subsp. intermedia A. C. Sanders & Elvin, M. linoides A. Gray subsp. sierrae Elvin & A. C. Sanders, M. sinuata subsp. nigrescens Elvin & A. C. Sanders, and M. undulata Bentham subsp. arguelloensis Elvin & A. C. Sanders. Eight new combinations and/or rank changes are proposed: M. australis subsp. cinerea (Abrams) A. C. Sanders & Elvin, M. breweri A. Gray subsp. glandulifera (I. M. Johnston) Elvin, M. breweri subsp. lanceolata (A. Gray) A. C. Sanders & Elvin, M. breweri subsp. microcephala (A. Gray) Elvin & A. C. Sanders, M. linoides subsp. anemonoides (Greene) Elvin & A. C. Sanders, M. linoides subsp. erecta (Abrams) Elvin & A. C. Sanders, M. undulata subsp. crispa (Elmer) Elvin & A. C. Sanders, and M. venosa (Torrey) A. C. Sanders & Elvin. The description of one taxon is emended: M. undulata subsp. undulata. Lectotypes are designated for M. lanceolata A. Gray and M. sanguinea Greene. We address each of these changes within informal species groupings or alliances.
40300943|Se describe e ilustra a Brongniartia balsensis J. Jimnez Ramrez & K. Vega (Leguminosae, Papilionoideae), una especie nueva y endmica de la Depresin del Balsas. El nuevo taxn es similar a B. guerrerensis J. Jimnez Ramrez & J. L. Contreras, pero difiere de esta especie por tener un mayor nmero de fololos y por presentar pedicelos, bractolas, cliz, estandarte, alas y quilla de mayor tamao, adems de tener diferencias en la forma del estandarte, el color de la quilla (verde) y poseer una legumbre ligeramente alada. /// Brongniartia balsensis J. Jimnez Ramrez & K. Vega (Leguminosae, Papilionoideae), a new and endemic species from the Balsas Depression, is described and illustrated. This species is similar to B. guerrerensis J. Jimnez Ramrez & J. L. Contreras, but differs from it by having a greater number of leaflets and larger pedicels, bracteoles, calyx, standard, wings, and keel; there are also differences in the form of the standard, the color of the keel (green), and the possession of a lightly winged legume.
10.2307/3393086|Neocuatrecasia sandiensis H. Robinson and N. yungasensis H. Robinson from high elevations in Peru and Bolivia and N. tysonii H. Robinson from lower elevations in Bolivia are described as new. A key is furnished to the 12 species of the as yet inadequately collected genus.
3393393| A new species of Acanthaceae, Staurogyne rubescens, is described and illustrated. It is endemic to the Brazilian moist forests on the eastern range of mountains named "Serra do Mar" and is thus far known only from the states of Rio de Janeiro and So Paulo. Staurogyne rubescens can be distinguished by its lax terminal racemes, with bracts and bracteoles that are foliaceous, and the flowers that have a pink calyx and red corolla. Staurogyne itatiaiae (Wawra) Leonard also has red flowers and occurs in the highlands of the Atlantic rain forest. The distinguishing characters for these two species are presented in tabular format. /// A nova espcie Staurogyne rubescens (Acanthaceae), endmica da Serra do Mar nos Estados do Rio de Janeiro e de So Paulo,  descrita e ilustrada. Staurogyne rubescens  reconhecida pelo racemo terminal laxo, com brcteas e bractolas foliceas, e pelas flores com clice rosado e corola vermelha. Staurogyne itatiaiae (Wawra) Leonard tambm apresenta flores vermelhas e ocorre em altitudes elevadas na floresta Atlntica. As caractersticas distintivas entre as duas espcies esto apresentadas em tabela. 
10.2307/3391916|Work toward a revision of the Costa Rican Aquifoliaceae has revealed several nomenclatural problems and undescribed species. In this paper, Ilex skutchii Edwin ex Dudley & W. J. Hahn is validly published, Euonymus haberi Lundell is transferred to Ilex, and Ilex hemiepiphytica W. J. Hahn is newly described.
10.2307/3391835|Impatiens kulamavuensis, a distinct new species from India allied to I. parasitica Beddome, is described.
23259423|Astragalus mishodaghmontanus Ranjbar, Karamian & Nouri, a singular new species endemic to Iran, is described and illustrated. The new species belongs to subgenus Cercidothrix Bunge, section Incani DC., in Astragalus L. (Fabaceae). It is distributed in northwestern Iran in East Azerbaijan Province. Astragalus mishodaghmontanus is closely related to A. prilipkoanus Grossh. and A. hashtrudicus Ranjbar, but is distinguished by its glabrous pods with minute dark reddish dots. The IUCN conservation status of the new species is evaluated as Vulnerable (VU). Results from cytogenetic analysis indicate that A. mishodaghmontanus is a diploid species (2n = 2x = 16), with this chromosome number consistent with the proposed base number of x = 8 for the genus. Meiosis was observed as regular, with bivalent pairing and normal chromosome segregation.
10.2307/3391887|New names and new combinations are proposed for 15 species of Campanulaceae s.l. that have no legitimate name at that rank in the genus to which they should be assigned. These nomenclatural innovations include changes of genus and rank among the endemic Hawaiian Lobelioideae, the final installment in the incorporation of Pratia into Lobelia, and replacement of two illegitimate names in Campanuloideae.
10.2307/3391932|The new combination Eriochrysis filiformis (Hackel) Filgueiras is made based on Saccharum filiforme Hackel. A full description of the species is given based on recent collections.
3393418| A new species of Tripodanthus, T. belmirensis Roldn & Kuijt, is described and illustrated from Antioquia, Colombia. In contrast to the other two, more southern species of the genus, T. acutifolius (Ruiz & Pavn) Tieghem and T. flagellaris (Chamisso & Schlechtendal) Tieghem, it has bright red, much larger flowers. This is the first report of Tripodanthus from Colombia. 
27765226|New combinations in Habranthus Herb. (Amaryllidaceae) are made for four species that were previously treated as Zephyranthes Herb. (Z. arenicola Brandegee, Z. chichimeca T. M. Howard & S. Ogden, Z. conzattii Greenm., and Z. longifolia Hemsl.) and that are endemic to Mexico and the southwestern United States: H. arenicola (Brandegee) Flagg, G. Lom. Sm. & Meerow, H. chichimeca (T. M. Howard & S. Ogden) Flagg, G. Lom. Sm. & Meerow, H. conzattii (Greenm.) Flagg, G. Lom. Sm. & Meerow, and H. longifolius (Hemsl.) Flagg, G. Lom. Sm. & Meerow. The mature anthers, which are more or less horizontal and usually lunate or U-shaped, readily distinguish Habranthus from Zephyranthes, in which the mature anthers are vertical and relatively linear.
20406114|Kyllinga beninensis Samain, Reynders & Goetghebeur, a new species of Cyperaceae from the Borgou-Sud region of Bnin, is fully described and illustrated. This species can be recognized by the slender habit with swollen stem base, the tiny white head consisting of a single spike, and the spikelets with two glumes and one flower. Morphological differences with the species K. microbulbosa Lye from East Africa, to which K. beninensis bears a superficial resemblance, are discussed.
3393293|A new species, Wikstroemia fuminensis Y. D. Qi & Y. Z. Wang, is described and illustrated. The type specimen was collected from Mt. Maying of Fumin County, Yunnan Province. The new species is distinct in section Wikstroemia. Based on the glabrous pentamerous flower and head-like inflorescence, it is somewhat similar to W. fargesii (Lecomte) Domke and W. huidongensis C. Y. Chang, but differs in its inflorescence without peduncle, floral size (compared with W. huidongensis), glabrous ovary, and plant habit (compared with W. fargesii).
10.2307/3391956|The new combinations Chamaesyce carissoides (F. M. Bailey) D. C. Hassall ex P. I. Forster & R. J. F. Henderson, C. centralis (B. G. Thompson) P. I. Forster & R. J. F. Henderson, C. coghlanii (F. M. Bailey) D. C. Hassall ex P. I. Forster & R. J. F. Henderson, C. petala (Ewart & L. R. Kerr) P. I. Forster & R. J. F. Henderson, and C. psammogeton (P. S. Green) P. I. Forster & R. J. F. Henderson are made.
10.2307/3393582|Rhododendron maxiongense C.-Q. Zhang & D. Paterson (Ericaceae), from Yunnan, China, is described as new. It is similar to R. aberconwayi Cowan, which has elliptical thick and coriaceous leaves with recurved margins that are not undulate and have red punctate hair. The calyx of R. aberconwayi is sparsely hairy and glandular-ciliate; the corolla is open-campanulate, white to pale rose, with purple flecks; the pedicels are sparsely hairy and stipitate-glandular; and there is pilus on the base of the stamen. Rhododendron maxiongense differs from R. aberconwayi in its habitat as a dwarf shrub 0.6 to 0.9 m in height; leaves with undulated recurved margins without red punctate hair; inflorescence 8- to 13-flowered; corolla white, without flecks, apex pale green or pale rose, and lobe apex acute; stamens glabrous; calyx densely hairy; and pedicels densely hairy.
10.2307/3392980|The new genus Sinosophiopsis (Brassicaceae) is described, and its relationship to Sophiopsis is discussed. The new species Sinosophiopsis bartholomewii is described, and the new combination S. heishuiensis is proposed.
3393414| Burmeistera auriculata is described from a cloud forest remnant in Pichincha, Ecuador. Although allied to B. borjensis, this new species is distinguished from all known congeners by its auriculate calyx. /// Se describe Burmeistera auriculata de un remanente de bosque nublado en Pichincha, Ecuador. Aunque aliado a B. borjensis, esta especie nueva se distingue de las dems Burmeisteras conocidas por su cliz auriculado. 
10.2307/3391689|Daphnopsis folsomii, D. hammelii, and D. morii are described and illustrated. A key to the Panamanian species of Thymelaeaceae is provided.
10.2307/3391440|A new section and two new species of Tragia are described and illustrated. Tragia guayanensis from Amazonas, Venezuela, is unique in the genus in having filaments entirely fused into an elongate staminal column and 5-colpate pollen. The new section Monadelphae is described to accommodate this unusual species. Tragia tabulaemontana from French Guiana belongs to section Tragia and is characterized by oblanceolate or narrowly elliptic leaf blades that are narrowly cordate at the base, stamens that are highly dilated at their base, and long-stipitate glandular trichomes on petioles, inflorescence axes, and ovaries. A key to the five sections of Tragia in the New World and a key to the five species of Tragia in the Guayana Region are given.
10.2307/3393262|A new combination, Eleutherococcus humillimus (Y. S. Lian & X. L. Chen) Y. F. Deng, is made.
3393552|The name Atriplex argentea var. mohavensis is not correct when A. expansa is treated as a synonym. Publication of its basionym, A. expansa var. mohavensis, created the autonym, variety expansa, which has priority according to the International Code of Botanical Nomenclature (Art. 11.6). Thus, the combination A. argentea var. expansa is established to replace the name variety mohavensis used in volume 4 of the Flora of North America.
10.2307/3392247|The new combinations Psychotria nebulosa (Dwyer) C. M. Taylor and P. roseocrema (Dwyer) C. M. Taylor are made, and the following new species are described: Chiococca caputensis D. H. Lorence & C. M. Taylor, Manettia longipedicellata C. M. Taylor, Pentagonia lobata C. M. Taylor, Psychotria burgeri C. M. Taylor, Psychotria saltatrix C. M. Taylor, and Rudgea laevis C. M. Taylor.
23018493|Se describe e ilustra Parodiolyra aratitiyopensis J. R. Grande (Poaceae, Bambusoideae, Olyreae, Olyrineae) con material proveniente del Cerro Aratitiyope, en el sur del estado Amazonas de Venezuela. Esta nueva entidad se distingue de P. luetzelburgii (Pilg.) Soderstr. & Zuloaga, la especie ms afn, por presentar porte bajo, lminas linear-lanceoladas relativamente pequeas con la base redondeada o truncada y los mrgenes escabrosos (no fimbriados) a todo lo largo, inflorescencias relativamente menores y escabrosas slo en los nudos, glumas de las espiguillas femeninas con pelos extendidos de hasta 1 mm de largo hacia su parte media y espiguillas masculinas linear-fusiformes. Se presenta una clave para diferenciar a las seis especies que han sido asignadas al gnero Parodiolyra Soderstr. & Zuloaga, y se discuten sus posibles relaciones en base a caracteres morfolgicos. Parodiolyra aratitiyopensis J. R. Grande (Poaceae, Bambusoideae, Olyreae, Olyrineae) is described and illustrated with material from Cerro Aratitiyope, in the southern part of Amazonas, Venezuela. This new taxon can be distinguished from P. luetzelburgii (Pilg.) Soderstr. & Zuloaga, the most similar species, by its smaller habit, smaller and linear-lanceolate leaf blades with a rounded or truncate base and scabrous margins (vs. fimbriate margins), smaller inflorescences that are scabrous only at the nodes, female spikelets with hairs to 1 mm long through the middle of the glumes, and linear-fusiform male spikelets. A key to differentiate the six species of the genus Parodiolyra Soderstr. & Zuloaga as presently understood is included, and a discussion of their possible relationships based on morphological characters is also offered.
10.2307/3391703|Intensive collecting efforts during recent years have resulted in a large number of Lauraceae collections. Attempts at their identification have shown that many Lauraceae species are still undescribed. In this contribution ten species are described, and one may expect articles describing additional species at regular intervals.
20406320|Reynosia vivesiana Trejo (Rhamnaceae) is a previously unrecognized species of woody shrub. It is known from a dry forest in southwestern Puerto Rico, where it has been recorded only in a small area in the Gunica Forest Reserve. The plant was treated for more than seven decades as R. guama Urban, a related species from the Virgin Islands. The new R. vivesiana is separated from R. guama and the other two species of Reynosia Grisebach from Puerto Rico by its glabrous twigs, petioles, and stipels, and by its smaller fruits (ca. 9 mm long), among other features. The segregation of R. vivesiana from R. guama heightens the importance of both species from a conservation standpoint. Based on IUCN Red List criteria, R. vivesiana can be defined as Critically Endangered (CR) and consequently needs legal protection. /// Reynosia vivesiana Trejo (Rhamnaceae) es una especie de arbusto leoso previamente no catalogada. Es conocida en el bosque seco del suroeste de Puerto Rico, donde ha sido registrada en un rea pequea de la Reserva Forestal de Gunica. La planta fue tratada por ms de siete dcadas como R. guama Urban, una especie hermana de las Islas Vrgenes. La nueva R. vivesiana se distingue de R. guama y de las otras dos especies de Reynosia Grisebach de Puerto Rico por sus ramas jvenes, peciolos y estipelas glabras, as como por sus frutos ms pequeos de alrededor de 9 mm de largo, entre otras caractersticas. La segregacin de R. vivesiana respecto de R. guama realza la importancia de ambas especies desde el punto de vista de su conservacin. Con base en los criterios de la Lista Roja de la UICN R. vivesiana puede definirse como en peligro crtico y consecuentemente amerita proteccin legal.
20406111|A new species belonging to Croton L. sect. Eluteria Grisebach (Euphorbiaceae) is described from, and endemic to, the Yucatn Peninsula, Mexico. The species is named C. mayanus B. L. Len & Vester after the Mayan zone where it is mainly found. It is distinguished from C. niveus Jacquin, C. reflexifolius Kunth, and C. pseudoniveus Lundell, the species that it most closely resembles, by its combination of lepidote hairs on the fruit, smooth fruit surface, leaves glabrescent abaxially, and fruiting pedicels 8-13 mm long.
10.2307/3392270|Two combinations (Papaver macounii subsp. discolor and P. radicatum subsp. kluanensis) and a subspecies (P. nudicaule subsp. americanum) are published.
20406009|Morphological, chemical, cytological, and genetic data have indicated that kava (Piper methysticum G. Forster, Piperaceae), a vegetatively propagated plant found only in cultivation, was derived from the wild P. wichmannii C. DC. through artificial selection, and that the two taxa remain similar enough to be considered conspecific. A previous attempt to recognize P. wichmannii (which may also be conspecific with P. subbulatum K. Schumann & Lauterbach) as a variety of P. methysticum was not validly published owing to failure to cite the place of publication of the basionym. The combination Piper methysticum var. wichmannii (C. DC.) Lebot is herein validated.
10.2307/3392212|Two new leafless succulent species from Madagascar, Cynanchum folotsioides and Cynanchum hardyi, are described. Both species have been in cultivation for a considerable time. However, because of the general confusion in Malagasy Cynanchum, they have only now been recognized as new to science. Folotsia aculeata (Descoings) Descoings is transferred to Cynanchum.
10.2307/3393245|A new species of Eriogonum subg. Eucycla (Polygonaceae, Eriogonoideae), E. diatomaceum, is described from the Pine Nut Range, Lyon County, Nevada, U.S.A. It is an edaphic endemic species restricted to chalky, diatomaceous outcrops of the Coal Valley Formation in Churchill Narrows south of Fort Churchill State Park. The new species is outwardly similar to the Great Plains species E. pauciflorum (sect. Capitata), but is more closely related to E. ochrocephalum and its relatives. Eriogonum diatomaceum may be distinguished by its sheathing, elliptic, densely gray-tomentose leaves, erect scapose and white-tinged tomentose flowering stems, capitate inflorescences, glabrous and creamy white flowers, and glabrous achenes.
10.2307/3391747|Se describe e ilustra la especie nueva Posoqueria tarairensis C. M. Taylor & R. Corts-Balln (Rubiaceae), que abunda en los bosques de la Serrana de Taraira en el sureste colombiano. La especie posee hojas esclerfilas, una adaptacin tpica a los hbitats con suelos arenosos pobres en nutrientes, caractersticos de la regin Guayana. /// The new species Posoqueria tarairensis C. M. Taylor & R. Corts-Balln (Rubiaceae), common in the Serrana de Taraira, southeastern Colombia, is here described and illustrated. This species shows sclerophyllous adaptations to sandy soils that are poor in nutrients, a habitat that is typical in the Guayana region.
41811675|A new fern species, Dryopteris jiucaipingensis P. S. Wang, Q. Luo & Li Bing Zhang (Dryopteris Adans., sect. Hirtipedes Fraser-Jenk.; Dryopteridaceae), is described and illustrated from northwestern Guizhou, China. Dryopteris jiucaipingensis is most similar to D. lunanensis (Christ) C. Chr., but the former taxon has light brown rachis scales and occurs in alpine regions (at an elevation of 2580 m), while the latter has nearly black rachis scales and is found in montane and lowland areas (below 900 m).
20406224|Matelea atrostellata Rintz (Apocynaceae, Asclepiadoideae), a new species from Trans-Pecos, Texas, U.S.A., is described and illustrated. This species is very similar vegetatively to M. producta (Torrey) Woodson and M. texensis Correll, but is readily distinguished floristically by its rotate corolla and its nearly black corona. Both M. producta and M. texensis have campanulate corollas and very pale green or white coronas. This is the fifth species of Matelea Aublet to be recorded from Brewster County, Texas.
20406208|Presence of a well-developed perianth, ciliate at the mouth, and brown pigmentation necessitate establishment of a new liverwort genus, Castanoclobos J. J. Engel & Glenny. The only species, C. julaceus (Hatcher ex J. J. Engel) J. J. Engel & Glenny, which is endemic to New Zealand, is described and illustrated. The hepatic genus is retained in the Trichocoleaceae.
10.2307/3391960|A new endemic species of Polygonum is described from Scotts Valley, California. Differentiation from closely related taxa P. parryi and P. heterosepalum is presented.
10.2307/3392055|The little-known tropical South American genus Campsiandra (Caesalpiniaceae), distributed throughout the Amazon basin and to the north into the Orinoco basin of Venezuela and the Esequibo-Carantijn basins of Guyana and Surinam, has been under revisionary study by the author since 1982. Intensive field exploration, especially in the Venezuelan Guayana, and herbarium work, including examination of all type specimens and their duplicates, have enabled the definition of 14 new species: Campsiandra aymardii, C. casiquiarensis, C. chigo-montero, C. curaara, C. emonensis, C. ferruginea, C. gomez-alvareziana, C. guayanensis, C. implexicaulis, C. nutans, C. pasibensis, C. steyermarkiana, C. taphornii, and C. velutina; 3 varieties: C. gomez-alvareziana var. pusilliflora, C. macrocarpa var. alveolata, and C. macrocarpa var. grandifolia; 2 taxa at new statuses: C. angustifolia var. rosea and C. comosa var. surinamensis; and the reinstatement of C. laurifolia Bentham to species level. A lectotype is designated from the syntypes of C. comosa Bentham. Relationships among related species are discussed, and a key is provided to distinguish the known taxa. /// El gnero tropical suramericano poco conocido Campsiandra (Caesalpiniaceae), distribuido de manera inconstante y con cierto endemismo a travs de la cuenca amaznica, y hacia el norte en las cuencas del Orinoco de Venezuela y la Essequibo-Carantijn de Guyana y Surinam, ha sido objeto de estudios de revisin taxonmica por el autor desde 1982. La exploracin intensiva de campo, sobre todo en la Guayana venezolana y trabajo de herbario, al incluir todas las muestras tipos, durante este lapso ha permitido la definicin de 14 especies nuevas: Campsiandra aymardii, C. casiquiarensis, C. chigo-montero, C. curaara, C. emonensis, C. ferruginea, C. gomez-alvareziana, C. guayanensis, C. implexicaulis, C. nutans, C. pasibensis, C. steyermarkiana, C. taphornii, and C. velutina; 3 variedades: C. gomez-alvareziana var. pusilliflora, C. macrocarpa var. alveolata, and C. macrocarpa var. grandifolia; 2 estados nuevos: C. angustifolia var. rosea and C. comosa var. surinamensis; y la redefinicin a nivel de especie de C. laurifolia Bentham. Se designa el lecttipo de los sntipos de C. comosa Bentham. Se discuten las relaciones entre las especies relacionadas, y se presenta una clave descriptiva con fines de distinguir entre los taxa reconocidos.
10.2307/3391582|Kanaloa kahoolawensis Lorence & K. R. Wood, a new genus and species of Fabaceae subfamily Mimosoideae tribe Mimoseae, is described from the Hawaiian Island of Kaho'olawe. Based on morphology, wood anatomy, pollen structure, and chromosome number (2n = 28), Kanaloa is described as a monotypic genus of shrubs allied to genera belonging to the Leucaena and Dichrostachys groups of Mimoseae, from which it is differentiated by its tergeminate leaves, monospermous fruits inertly dehiscent along two sutures with the valves separating into inner and outer envelopes, and large cordiform seeds. The new genus is extremely rare and currently known from only two remaining plants on Kaho'olawe, a small, arid, and highly disturbed island. Fossil pollen attributable to Kanaloa has been found in core samples from lowland sites on O'ahu dating to the early Pleistocene.
10.2307/3391869|A new species of Dioclea sect. Pachylobium is described under the name of Dioclea grandistipula L. P. Queiroz. Although related to Dioclea rufescens Bentham, this new taxon is distinguished from other species of Dioclea by its cauliflorous pendulous inflorescences and large peltate stipules. It is endemic to the Atlantic forest of the State of So Paulo (southeastern Brazil) and was found during a recent survey for the Fanerogamic Flora of So Paulo at the Ecological Station Juria-Itatins.
10.2307/3391803|Se describe una nueva especie de Acaena, A. patagonica, de la zona patagnica de Chile y Argentina. Se publica adems una nueva seccin dentro del gnero la que incluye a esta especie. /// A new species of Acaena, A. patagonica, from Patagonian Chile and Argentina, is described. A new section of the genus is erected to include this species.
20406173|The confusing publication history of the name Mentzelia arborescens Urban & Gilg is clarified. The first publication of the name by I. Urban in 1892 referred only to a floral diagram and should not be considered as valid publication. Subsequently, the name was taken up by E. Gilg in 1893 in Die natrlichen Pflanzenfamilien and described in detail as the only representative of the newly described Mentzelia L. sect. Dendromentzelia Urban & Gilg. This should be considered as the valid publication of the name. The material seen by the authors, however, was not cited in publication until 1900. A search for the original material led to the discovery of two Karwinski specimens in the Munich herbarium (M), which bear handwritten labels by Urban and Gilg dated 1892, and are therefore suitable as lectotypes of the name. One of them is here formally designated as the lectotype.
27765202|A new species, Taxiphyllum townsendii Ochyra & Ireland (Hypnaceae, Musci), is described from Sri Lanka. The species was earlier known under the name Plagiothecium ceylonense Brotherus ex Dixon, but this name was not validly published and therefore a new name is needed. Taxiphyllum townsendii is similar in many ways to the common eastern North American species, T. deplanatum (Bruch & Schimper ex Sullivant) M. Fleischer, but differs by its larger, often oblong-lanceolate leaves that are abruptly or gradually short- or long-acuminate; much longer and narrower mid-leaf cells; short-rectangular, very broad basal leaf cells that form a distinct 1- to 2- seriate strip at the leaf insertion; and a prominent angular group of large quadrate to short-rectangular cells that extend up the margns by four to 10 cells. Taxiphyllum subretusum (Thwaites & Mitten) O'Shea is transferred to the genus Phyllodon Schimper as P. subretusus (Thwaites & Mitten) Ochyra & Ireland and the name is lectotypified. The validity of the name Enlodon isopterygioides (Dixon) Dixon is discussed and this name is considered to be validly published.
10.2307/3391487|As a result of work on the Poaceae for Flora Mesoamericana, the following four new species are described, illustrated, and compared with their closest putative relatives: Festuca talamancensis from the Cordillera de Talamanca in Costa Rica, F. herrerae from the Cordillera de Talamanca in Costa Rica and Panama, Sporobolus distichivaginatus from the Petn, Guatemala, and Eriochloa stevensii from Nicaragua, Venezuela, and Ecuador.
10.2307/3393025|A new species of Poaceae, Paspalum volcanensis, from southern Bolivia and northwestern Argentina, is described and illustrated. Its concavo-convex spikelets and upper lemma with conspicuous nerves are characters it shares with other species of subgenus Anachyris of Paspalum. A key to the species of the subgenus and comments on the delimitation of the new species are provided here.
3393540| The new combination Dolichopsis ligulata (Piper) A. Delgado is made from Phaseolus ligulatus Piper. This species is readily distinguished from Dolichopsis paraguariensis by its presenting the beak of the keel with a sigmoid curvature and by its western distribution in Bolivia and adjacent Paraguay. The new combination Macrotilium ecuadoriense (Hassler) L. Torres-Coln & A. Delgado is made from Phaseolus atropurpureus Sess & Mocio ex DC. var. ecuadoriense Hassler, with Phaseolus affinis newly synonymized. Red petals borne from a tubular calyx and presence of hairs in its wing petals readily distinguish Macroptilium ecuadoriense from the common and widespread Macroptilium atropurpureum with its deep maroon petals borne from a campanulate calyx and glabrous wing petals. 
10.2307/3391488|A new species, Podocarpus acuminatus, from southern Venezuela and nearby Brazil is described.
10.2307/3392225|Hedyotis macvaughii, a new species from Jalisco, Mexico, is described and compared with related taxa. It is a small wiry-stemmed perennial herb with filiform leaves, small funnelform flowers, and non-crateriform seeds.
20406155|Two new species of Sphaeradenia Harling (Cyclanthaceae), S. rostellata R. Eriksson from Costa Rica and S. marcescens R. Eriksson from Ecuador, are described and illustrated. Sphaeradenia rostellata is distinguished from the closely related S. praetermissa R. Eriksson and S. occidentalis R. Eriksson by the widely separated, uncinate stigmas. Sphaeradenia marcescens differs from the supposedly closely related S. pallida R. Eriksson by the persisting staminate flowers. /// Se describen e ilustran dos especies nuevas de Sphaeradenia Harling (Cyclanthaceae), S. rostellata R. Eriksson de Costa Rica y S. marcescens R. Eriksson de Ecuador. Sphaeradenia rostellata se distingue de las especies estrechamente relacionadas, S. praetermissa R. Eriksson y S. occidentalis R. Eriksson, por los estigmas muy separados y uncinados. Sphaeradenia marcescens se diferencia de la especie probablemente ms relacionada, S. pallida R. Eriksson, por las flores estaminadas persistentes.
20406087|Phyllanthus gradyi M. J. Silva & M. F. Sales from Brazil is described and illustrated, and its affinities are discussed. The new species is included in Phyllanthus L. subg. Botryanthus G. L. Webster sect. Elutanthos Croizat.
20406207|Gyrostipula obtusa Emanuelsson & Razafimandimbison, a new species of Rubiaceae (Naucleeae) from Madagascar, is described and illustrated. The new species differs from its congeners, G. comorensis J.-F. Leroy and G. foveolata (Capuron) J.-F. Leroy, by its obtuse leaves with more densely spaced lateral (secondary) veins and shorter petioles.
20406145|Orthophytum itambense Versieux & Leme is described and illustrated as a new species, with an endemic distribution restricted to Pico do Itamb State Park, Minas Gerais, Brazil. This new lithophytic taxon is closely related to O. supthutii E. Gross & Barthlott due to the shape and texture of leaves, floral bracts with recurved apex, sessile inflorescence, and by the long tubular corolla. The new species differs from its closest relatives by having leaves whitelepidote abaxially and adaxially, with trichomes forming white transverse cross-bands adaxially, nearly free sepals, white corolla, and shorter petal appendages (only to 4 mm vs. to 7 mm in O. supthutii).
10.2307/3391479|A second species is added to Neviusia (Rosaceae: Kerrieae), previously known as a single rare species in the southeastern United States. The new species, N. cliftonii from northern California, differs from N. alabamensis primarily in having petals, fewer stamens, and more broadly ovate, coarsely toothed leaves. The relict nature of Neviusia is further supported by newly recognized fossils from the Eocene of British Columbia, Canada.
20406113|Cyperus vandervekenii Reynders, Dhooge & Goetghebeur, from Rwanda, is fully described and illustrated. It can easily be distinguished from the related Cyperus graciliculmis Lye by its slender subquadrangular culms, single pseudolateral spikelets, and by the associated bract shorter than the spikelet.
10.2307/3393527| Notopleura (Bentham & Hooker f.) Bremekamp is a Neotropical genus of about 100 species that was formerly included in Psychotria, but differs from that in its low succulent habit, stipules with a single usually glandular interpetiolar appendage, and terminal or often pseudoaxillary inflorescences. Notopleura is widely distributed in wet habitats and includes two subgenera: subgenus Notopleura, which comprises terrestrial, usually unbranched plants and includes most of the species in the genus, and subgenus Viscogoga, which comprises epiphytic, usually branched plants. In subgenus Notopleura here the new combination N. madida (Standley) C. M. Taylor is made based on Psychotria madida Standley of Ecuador, and 21 new species are described and illustrated: N. amicitiae C. M. Taylor of eastern Costa Rica and western Panama, which has been confused with N. aggregata (Standley) C. M. Taylor; N. biloba C. M. Taylor of northwestern Colombia, which has been confused with N. macropodantha (Standley) C. M. Taylor; N. bryophila C. M. Taylor of montane Ecuador, which has been confused with N. marginata (Bentham) Bullock; N. capitata C. M. Taylor, found from Nicaragua to Panama and previously confused with N. aggregata; N. corniculata C. M. Taylor of western Colombia and Ecuador, which has been confused with N. anomothyrsa (K. Schumann & Donnell Smith) C. M. Taylor; N. corymbosa C. M. Taylor of Ecuador, which has been confused with N. micayensis (Standley) Bremekamp; N. costaricensis C. M. Taylor of montane Costa Rica, which has been confused with N. aggregata: N. hurtadoi C. M. Taylor of Ecuador, which has been confused with N. leucantha (K. Krause) C. M. Taylor; N. hypolaevis C. M. Taylor of Ecuador, which has been confused with N. uliginosa (Swartz) Bremekamp; N. longiflora C. M. Taylor of northwestern Colombia, which has been confused with N. macropodantha; N. montana C. M. Taylor of montane Costa Rica to Venezuela and Peru, which has been confused with N. macrophylla (Ruiz & Pavn) C. M. Taylor; N. multinervia C. M. Taylor of montane western Panama, which has been confused with N. aggregata: N. obtusa C. M. Taylor of Ecuador and northern Peru, which has been confused with N. aequatoriana C. M. Taylor; N. pacorana C. M. Taylor of central Panama, which has been confused with N. panamensis Dwyer) C. M. Taylor; N. parvifolia C. M. Taylor of western Panama, which has been confused with N. aggregata; N. pcnduliflora C. M. Taylor of western Panama, which has been confused with N. plagiantha (Standley) C. M. Taylor; N. sanblasensis C. M. Taylor of central Panama, which has also been confused with N. panamensis; N. spiciformis C. M. Taylor of western Colombia and Ecuador, which has been confused with N. longipedunculoides (C. M. Taylor) C. M. Taylor; N. torrana C. M. Taylor of western Panama, which has been confused with N. macropodantha: N. tubulistipula C. M. Taylor of Ecuador, which has again been confused with N. aggregata: and N. zarucchiana C. M. Taylor of montane Colombia, which has also been confused with N. macropodantha. Also in subgenus Notopleura, the correct names and their authorship are discussed for the species N. longipedunculoides (the formal new combination made here), N. longissima Bremekamp, and N. micayensis. In subgenus Viscagoga five new species are described and illustrated: N. bahiensis C. M. Taylor, which is similar to N. multiramosa (Steyermark) C. M. Taylor; N. cocleensis C. M. Taylor from western Panama, which has been confused with N. guadalupensis (DC.) C. M. Taylor; N. elegans C. M. Taylor from Costa Rica and western Panama, which has also been confused with N. guadalupensis: N. episcandens C. M. Taylor & Lorence from eastern Panama, which has been confused with N. maxonii (Standley) C. M. Taylor; and N. vargasiana C. M. Taylor from Ecuador, which again has been confused with N. guadalupensis. 
23259334|Four new species for the Begoniaceae, Begonia campanensis Burt-Utley & Utley and B. fortunensis Burt-Utley & Utley from Panama; B. matudae Burt-Utley & Utley from Chiapas, Mexico; and B. makrinii Burt-Utley & Utley from Oaxaca, Mexico, are described and illustrated. Begonia mucronistipula C. DC. from Panama is evaluated and synonymized with B. davidsoniae Standl. ex L. B. Sm. & B. G. Schub. and B. brevicyma C. DC. Begonia campanensis Burt-Utley & Utley y B. fortunensis Burt-Utley & Utley de Panam, as como B. matudae Burt-Utley & Utley de Chiapas y B. makrinii Burt-Utley & Utley de Oaxaca, Mxico se describen como nuevo. Se ilustran y evala B. mucronistipula C. DC. de Panam, lo que resulta en la sinonimia de B. davidsoniae Standl. ex L. B. Sm. & B. G. Schub. y B. brevicyma C. DC. con ella.
10.2307/3393111|Fourteen new species of Lauraceae, belonging to the genera Licaria, Ocotea, and Rhodostemonodaphne and all occurring in or near the Reserva Florestal Ducke, near Manaus, Brazil, are described. The new species are Licaria aureosericea van der Werff, L. hirsuta van der Werff, Ocotea cinerea van der Werff, O. delicata Vicentini, O. immersa van der Werff, O. ligulata van der Werff, O. minor Vicentini, O. nigrescens Vicentini, O. obliqua Vicentini, O. percurrens Vicentini, O. rhodophylla Vicentini, O. scabrella van der Werff, O. subterminalis van der Werff, and Rhodostemonodaphne recurva van der Werff. A key to the 37 Ocotea species of the Reserva Florestal Ducke is provided.
27765224|Tropidogyne pikei K. L. Chambers, Poinar & R. T. Buckley, representing a new genus and species, is described from an Early Cretaceous flower preserved in Burmese amber. Tropidogyne may occupy a stem or early crown position in the phylogeny of the rosid clade. Its floral morphology, while largely plesiomorphic, can be compared with the modern family Cunoniaceae. The flower of the fossil taxon is small, bisexual, epigynous, apetalous, with five regular sepals slightly connate at the base, 10 stamens, the one preserved anther having two thecae that dehisce by longitudinal slits, an ovary of three carpels surmounted by a conspicuous disc, three short, acute styles, and a 10-ribbed inferior ovary. At the summit of each rib of the Tropidogyne ovary is a small, darkly stained patch of tissue, interpreted here as a secretory gland.
20406216|Descriptions and illustrations of three new Brazilian species of the genus Rauvolfia L. (Apocynaceae, Rauvolfioideae), R. capixabae I. Koch & Kinoshita-Gouva, R. gracilis I. Koch & Kinoshita-Gouva, and R. pruinosifolia I. Koch & Kinoshita-Gouva, are presented. Rauvolfia blanchetii A. DC., R. mollis S. Moore, and R. divergens Markgraf are newly synonymized under R. ligustrina Willdenow, R. pernambucensis Emygdio under R. moricandii A. DC., and R. sessilifolia S. Moore under R. weddelliana Mller Argoviensis. Lectotypes for R. blanchetii and R. ternifolia Kunth are designated; furthermore, comments to clarify the complicated typification of R. ligustrina and R. ternifolia are presented. /// So apresentadas descries e ilustraes de trs novas espcies brasileiras do gnero Rauvolfia L. (Apocynaceae, Rauvolfioideae), R. capixabae I. Koch & Kinoshita-Gouva, R. gracilis I. Koch & Kinoshita-Gouva e R. pruinosifolia I. Koch & Kinoshita-Gouva. Rauvolfia blanchetii A. DC., R. mollis S. Moore e R. divergens Markgraf so sinonimizadas  R. ligustrina Willdenow, R. pernambucensis Emygdio  R. moricandii A. DC., e R. sessilifolia S. Moore  R. weddelliana Mller Argoviensis. So designados lecttipos para R. blanchetii e R. ternifolia Kunth e so apresentados comentrios para o esclarecimento da complexa tipificao de R. ligustrina e R. ternifolia.
20406160|Three new species of Physaria (Nuttall) A. Gray from the western United States are described and illustrated: P. eriocarpa Grady & O'Kane, P. pachyphylla O'Kane & Grady, and P. pycnantha Grady & O'Kane. Physaria curvipes (A. Nelson) Grady & O'Kane and P. spatulata (Rydberg) Grady & O'Kane are proposed as new combinations in the genus and are provided with updated descriptions. Taxonomic changes are the product of a molecular study of these species and others formerly allied with P. reediana O'Kane & Al-Shehbaz (= Lesquerella alpina (Nuttall) Watson). A key is provided that includes the species described here as well as other central Rocky Mountain species traditionally affiliated with P. reediana.
3393298|Sarocalamus Stapleton, a new genus distributed from the eastern Himalayas to the Sichuan Province of China, is described. Among all Asian bamboo genera it shares the greatest number of morphological characters with the North American genus Arundinaria Michaux. However, DNA sequencing has suggested that other genera are probably more closely related to Arundinaria, while Sarocalamus appears instead to be a possible sister group to Phyllostachys Siebold & Zuccarini, a genus with some similarities in branching but very different flowers. Biogeographical implications are discussed, and the new combinations Sarocalamus racemosus (Munro) Stapleton, S. faberi (Rendle) Stapleton, and S. spanostachyus (T. P. Yi) Stapleton are made.
20406112|Solanum scabrum Miller has been reported almost exclusively from cultivation as a vegetable for human consumption. However, molecular and morphological data indicate that a wild taxon exists in Uganda. This wild taxon was previously identified as the poisonous S. nigrum L., but local people use its leaves as food. This taxon is here described as a new subspecies, S. scabrum Miller subsp. laevis Olet. Morphological descriptions and a key to separate the two subspecies of S. scabrum are given.
10.2307/3392170|In the course of preparing a treatment of the Ocotea helicterifolia group for Flora Mesoamericana, the existing treatment was found to be outdated. A review of the group is here presented and includes the description of the following new species: O. congregata van der Werff, O. corrugata van der Werff, O. gordonii van der Werff, and O. patula van der Werff, as well as the following new combinations: O. betazensis (Mez) van der Werff, O. bourgeauviana (Mez) van der Werff, O. purpurea (Mez) van der Werff, and O. tonii (Lundell) van der Werff. A key to the species of the group is presented, new synonymy is given, and the specimens studied are listed.
10.2307/3393185|Three new Jaltomata species from the department of Ancash, Peru, are described and illustrated. The three species are distinguished from others in the genus by features of the flowers, hairs, and leaves. Fruits of Jaltomata cajacayensis S. Leiva & Mione are gathered for consumption. Jaltomata lomana Mione & S. Leiva is known only from a single fog-dependent plant community, a lomas formation. Jaltomata yungayensis Mione & S. Leiva is widely distributed at high elevations.
20406302|Six new species and two varieties of Cuphea P. Browne (Lythraceae) are described from Brazilian collections. Cuphea lucens T. B. Cavalcanti & S. A. Graham from Minas Gerais is described in sect. Melvilla Koehne subsect. Pachycalyx Koehne where it is similar to C. cylindracea S. A. Graham but lacks the prominently descending floral tube spur of that species. Cuphea alatosperma T. B. Cavalcanti & S. A. Graham from the Amazon, with inflated-winged seeds, and C. anamariae T. B. Cavalcanti & S. A. Graham, a novelty from white sands in Minas Gerais, belong to sect. Euandra Koehne subsections Platypterus Koehne and Hilariella Koehne, respectively. Cuphea exilis T. B. Cavalcanti & S. A. Graham, C. filiformis T. B. Cavalcanti & S. A. Graham, and C. rupestris T. B. Cavalcanti & S. A. Graham, new species with linear-lanceolate leaves and a woody xylopodium (not confirmed in C. exilis), are members of sect. Euandra subsect. Oidemation Koehne, as are the newly recognized variety C. spermacoce A. St.-Hilaire var. arguta T. B. Cavalcanti & S. A. Graham and the new combination C. spermacoce var. erectifolia (Koehne) T. B. Cavalcanti & S. A. Graham. Lectotypes are selected for C. erectifolia Koehne and two forms of the species. A key to the varieties of C. spermacoce is provided. /// Seis novas espcies e duas novas variedades de Cuphea P. Browne (Lythraceae) so descritas a partir de colees brasileiras. Cuphea lucens T. B. Cavalcanti & S. A. Graham, de Minas Gerais,  descrita para a seo Melvilla Koehne subseo Pachycalyx Koehne onde  semelhante  C. cylindracea S. A. Graham, mas difere por no possuir o clcar proeminentemente descendente como naquela espcie. Cuphea alatosperma T. B. Cavalcanti & S. A. Graham, da Amaznia, com sementes de ala inflada e C. anamariae T. B. Cavalcanti & S. A. Graham, uma novidade das serras de solos de areia branca de MinasGerais, pertencente  seo Euandra Koehne subseo Platypterus Koehne e Hilariella Koehne, respectivamente. Cuphea exilis T. B. Cavalcanti & S. A. Graham, C. filiformis T. B. Cavalcanti & S. A. Graham e C. rupestris T. B. Cavalcanti & S. A. Graham, novas espcies com folhas linear-lanceoladas e xilopdio (no confirmado em C. exilis), so membros da seo Euandra subseo Oidemation Koehne, assim como a nova variedade reconhecida C. spermacoce A. St.-Hilaire var. arguta T. B. Cavalcanti & S. A. Graham e a nova combinao C. spermacoce var. erectifolia (Koehne) T. B. Cavalcanti & S. A. Graham. Lecttipos so selecionados para C. erectifolia Koehne e duas formas das espcies. Uma chave para as variedades de C. spermacoce  fornecida.
23018460|A new species of Euphorbiaceae from the Brazilian Amazon, Pera eiteniorum Bigio & Secco, is described and illustrated. This species is closely related to P. tomentosa (Benth.) Mll. Arg., P. membranacea Leal, and P. heteranthera (Schrank) I. M. Johnst., but can be distinguished from them by the following characteristics: the abaxial leaf surface with stellate trichomes and the blade midvein with stellate-lepidote trichomes, staminate flowers with the calyx glabrous or rarely with sparse, sericeous trichomes, and a well-developed rudimentary pistillate flower with a lageniform (flask-shaped) ovary, triangular stigma, and narrowly oblanceolate staminode. Affinities of the new taxon are discussed, and a key to morphologically similar species from Amazonian Brazil is presented. Uma nova espcie de Euphorbiaceae da Amaznia brasileira, Pera eiteniorum Bigio & Secco,  descrita e ilustrada. Esta espcie  superficialmente semelhante a P. tomentosa (Benth.) Mll. Arg., P. membranacea Leal e P. heteranthera (Schrank) I. M. Johnst., mas separa-se por ser a nica deste grupo a apresentar as seguintes caractersticas: face abaxial das folhas com tricomas estrelados e estrelados lepidotos na nervura principal, clice das flores estaminadas glabros ou raramente com tricomas serceos esparsos e rudimento de flores pistiladas bem desenvolvido; flores pistiladas com ovrio lageniforme, estigma triangular e estamindio estreitamente oblanceolado. Discusso sobre as afinidades do novo txon, bem como uma chave para separao das espcies morfologicamente relacionadas da Amaznia brasileira,  apresentada.
41811670|A new fern species, Polystichum oblanceolatum H. He & Li Bing Zhang (Dryopteridaceae), is described and illustrated from a karst cave in Guangxi, southern China. As a member of Polystichum Roth sect. Haplopolystichum Tagawa, P. oblanceolatum is morphologically most similar to P. dielsii Christ and P. liui Ching, but is distinguishable from the latter two by its often oblanceolate lamina with acute apex, its repand or broadly dentate pinnae with non-spinulose toothed distal margins, and the less developed, more or less truncate, but not sharply acute, basal acroscopic auricles of the pinnae. The new taxon appears to be endemic to a single karst cave in Tian'e County in northern Guangxi and is considered to be Critically Endangered (CR), based on IUCN Red List criteria. A key is provided to facilitate the identification of P. oblanceolatum and morphologically similar species.
40300950|For the Flora of North America Project, five species are transferred to Rosulabryum J. R. Spence (Bryaceae). Two weedy European species, Bryum bornholmense Winkelmann & R. Ruthe and B. rubens Mitten, are transferred based on morphology and recent molecular results, as R. bornholmense (Winkelmann & R. Ruthe) J. R. Spence and R. rubens (Mitten) J. R. Spence. The western North American endemics B. erythroloma (Kindberg) Syed and B. gemmascens Kindberg are also transferred to Rosulabryum, as R. erythroloma (Kindberg) J. R. Spence and R. gemmascens (Kindberg) J. R. Spence. Finally, the rare eastern North American Brachymenium andersonii H. A. Crum is transferred to Rosulabryum as R. andersonii (H. A. Crum) J. R. Spence. In all, 13 species of Rosulabryum are found in North America north of Mexico. A key to the species is included.
3393295| A new species from central Andean Bolivia, Ovidia sericea Antezana & Z. S. Rogers (Thymelaeaceae, Thymelaeoideae), is described and illustrated. This distinctive species differs from the other South American species in the genus, O. andina (Poeppig & Endlicher) Meisner and O. pillopillo (Gay) Meisner, by a number of vegetative and floral features, the most obvious being the dense sericeous indument on both surfaces of the leaf blades and the abaxial surface of the hypanthia. The description of O. sericea substantially extends the range of Ovidia Meisner, which was formerly thought to be endemic to central Chile and the adjacent Andean slopes of Argentina. A key to the species of Ovidia as circumscribed by Nevling is also provided. /// Se presenta la descripcin e ilustracin de una nueva especie de los Andes centrales de Bolivia, Ovidia sericea Antezana & Z. S. Rogers (Thymelaeaceae: Thymelaeoideae). Esta especie se diferencia de las otras dos especies O. andina (Poeppig & Endlicher) Meisner and O. pillopillo (Gay) Meisner, por varias caractersticas vegetativas y florales, entre estas la mas obvia es el indumento serceo en ambas caras de las hojas y en cara abaxial del hipantio. Con la descripcin de O. sericea se extiende ampliamente la distribucin de Ovidia Meisner, la cual se pensaba que era endmica de Chile central y la regin adyacente en los andes argentinos. Se presenta tambin una clave de las especies de Ovidia, en el sentido del gnero como lo defini Nevling. 
10.2307/3392229|Studies of the Kazakh endemic Lappula coronifera (M. Popov) subsp. zaissanica Aralbaev show that it is a distinct species. The new combination Lappula zaissanica (Aralbaev) Aralbaev is proposed.
10.2307/3392141|Four new combinations are made for Packera: P. eurycephala var. lewisrosei (J. T. Howell) Bain, P. contermina (Greenman) Bain, P. moresbiensis (Calder & Taylor) Bain, and P. ovina (Greene) Bain. Packera ovina is lectotypfied. The latter is necessary because the holotype is a mixed collection whose disposition affects the naming of Packera contermina.
20406265|The new species Cardamine hupingshanensis K. M. Liu, L. B. Chen, H. F. Bai & L. H. Liu is described and illustrated from Hupingshan National Nature Reserve in northwestern Hunan, China. The new species is distinctive and assigned to section Cardamine L. according to its rhizomes, petioles sometimes with lateral leaflets, flowers, and coiled valves during dehiscence. The habitat is aquatic or subaquatic. Based on the leaf shape, it is similar to C. circaeoides Hooker f. & Thomson but is distinguished by its stout rhizomes and broadly obovate petals. The chromosome number is 2n = 24.
20406337|Allium tel-avivense Eig (Liliaceae), endemic to Israel, is lectotypified.
10.2307/3391514|Romanschulzia mexicana is described as new and illustrated. It is readily distinguished from all other 12 species of Romanschulzia by its fruiting pedicels and gynophores that are both very long and rather slender.
10.2307/3393184|Tournefortia gigantifolia, an unusual understory shrub, is described as new from wet forests in Ecuador and Colombia. It is distinct in its monocaulous or sparsely branched habit with large punctate leaves clustered near the stem apices. Its free anthers and unlobed fruits indicate clearly that it is a member of Tournefortia sect. Tournefortia, but its relationships with other species are not evident. /// Tournefortia gigantifolia, un arbusto excepcional de sotobosque, se describe como nueva especie. Habita en bosques hmedos en Ecuador y Colombia. Es distintivo en su forma de crecimiento monocaule o con pocas ramas, con hojas grandes que presentan abundantes puntos en el haz; las hojas estan agrupadas cerca de los pices de los tallos. Aunque esta nueva especie claramente pertenece al gnero Tournefortia, seccin Tournefortia, sur parentesco con las otras especies de la seccin no est claro.
23259430|Carex orestera Zika (Cyperaceae) is described from western North America and is endemic to five counties in central and southern California in the Sierra Nevada range and the adjacent White Mountains. The taxon is separable from C. albonigra Mack. in its more lanceolate to oblong scales with a conspicuous pale midvein and relatively narrower perigynia. The new species is assigned to Carex L. sect. Racemosae G. Don, and a sectional key is provided for these sedges in California.
10.2307/3391423|Three new species of Manettia (Rubiaceae) are described from Panama: M. arboricola, M. microphylla, and M. longicalycina.
10.2307/3392030|Morphological, cytological, and molecular data support the reduction of Boleum Desvaux and Euzomodendron Cosson to synonymy of Vella L. The new combination Vella bourgaeana is proposed. A key to the species of Vella is presented.
10.2307/3391853|Eight new species and two new varieties from five Brazilian states are described and illustrated: Diplusodon argyrophyllus and D. ulei var. ciliatus, from Bahia; D. alatus, D. ciliatiflorus, D. oblongus var. angustifolius, D. plumbeus, and D. pygmaeus from Gois; D. aggregatifolius, from Minas Gerais; D. trigintus, from Tocantins; and D. mattogrossensis, from Mato Grosso.
10.2307/3393532|Packera contermina is the correct name for the taxon erroneously published as Packera lyallii.
10.2307/3393371| The following represent new specific taxa in the Orchidaceae from Venezuela: Epidendrum cesar-fernandezii Carnevali & I. Ramrez, E. reclinatum Carnevali & I. Ramrez, Pleurothallis loreae Carnevali & I. Ramrez, P. escalerensis Carnevali & C. A. Luer, and P. stellata I. Ramrez & Carnevali. A new nothospecies, Epidendrum Xgransabanensis Carnevali & I. Ramrez, is proposed as the product of the introgression between Epidendrum ibaguense HBK and E. secundum Jacquin. A new subspecies, Liparis nervosa subsp. granitica Carnevali & I. Ramrez, is proposed to accommodate populations of Liparis nervosa (Thunberg) Lindley restricted to granitic outcrops in the northwestern Guayana in Venezuela. Descriptions, illustrations, and discussions of affinities are provided for the newly proposed taxa. 
20406341|Berberis chunanensis T. S. Ying (Berberidaceae) was not validly published in 1999 because no type was designated. The name Berberis chunanensis T. S. Ying is validly established here.
10.2307/3393064|The fossil organ genus Palaeoaster (Papaveraceae), from the Cretaceous Western Interior of North America, is revised to contain a single species, the new combination P. porosa. The type status is clarified and lectotypes are selected for the basionym Eriocaulon? porosum (Eriocaulaceae) and synonyms P. inquirenda, P? similis, and Sterculiocarpus coloradensis (Sterculiaceae). This revision reflects an informal circumscription of Palaeoaster in use since the late 1930s, and is the first of several papers on this genus.
10.2307/3393023|Durante la preparacin del tratamiento de las Leguminosas para el el proyecto Manual de las Plantas de Costa Rica nuevas especies han sido descubiertas en los gneros Dalbergia y Pterocarpus, y se proponen nuevas combinaciones en los gneros Desmodium y Dioclea. /// During the preparation of the treatment of the Legumes for the Manual de las Plantas de Costa Rica project, new species in the genera Dalbergia and Pterocarpus were discovered; proposals for new combinations in the genera Desmodium and Dioclea were also deemed necessary.
10.2307/3391406|Monochaetum amistadense, a new species from the pramo of Costa Rica, is described, illustrated, and compared to its closest presumed relative, M. compactum. The distributional range of M. trichophyllum is extended from Panama to Costa Rica, and a diagnostic key is provided for the 10 species of Monochaetum now known from Costa Rica.
10.2307/3392070|Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie de Gamochaeta de los Andes de Per y Bolivia. Gamochaeta lulioana es similar a G. longipedicellata por su hbito cespitoso y los captulos solitarios, pero se diferencia de sta por los captulos ssiles. /// A new Andean species, Gamochaeta lulioana, is described and illustrated. This species is closely related to G. longipedicellata, which occurs in Argentina. Both species are similar in their caespitose habit and solitary capitula, but only G. lulioana has sessile capitula.
10.2307/3393128|During preparation of the account of Cotoneaster Medikus for the Flora of China, volume 9, it was found that some taxa required the following new combinations, namely Cotoneaster glaucophyllus Franchet var. serotinus (Hutchinson) L. T. Lu & A. R. Brach, C. bullatus Bois var. floribundus (Stapf) L. T. Lu & A. R. Brach, and C. gracilis Rehder & E. H. Wilson var. difficilis (G. Klotz) L. T. Lu.
10.2307/3393030|The combinations Doronicum carpetanum subsp. diazii (C. Prez Morales & A. Penas Merino) lvarez Fernndez, Doronicum carpetanum subsp. kuepferi (R. Chacn Aumente) lvarez Fernndez, Doronicum kamaonense (DC.) lvarez Fernndez, and Doronicum macrophyllum F. E. L. Fischer subsp. sparsipilosum (J. R. Edmondson) lvarez Fernndez are proposed. Doronicum kamaonense is lectotypified.
10.2307/3393058|The new species Memecylon tirunelvelicum (Melastomataceae), collected from the Tirunelveli Hills of Tamil Nadu in Peninsular India, is described and illustrated. It is distinguished by the nerves on its leaves, a long and quadrangular peduncle, larger flowers with deeper calyx lobing but faint disc ray, and dense papillae on the ovary. It is closely related to Memecylon grande Retzius by its leaf shape and texture, terete branchlets, inflorescence position, and ovary shape.
20406350|A new species of Asplenium L. (Aspleniaceae) is described and illustrated. Asplenium badinii Sylvestre & P. G. Windisch is an endemic species of the isolated forest clumps (capoes) from Itacolomi State Park, from Minas Gerais, Brazil, in areas dominated by open rocky sites (campos rupestres). This environment is known for its high level of generic and specific endemism. The new species belongs to the A. salicifolium L. species group, with apical pinnae similar to lateral ones, smooth blades, and spores with echinate perispore. It is related to A. juglandifolium Lamark and A. bradeanum Handro. Diagnostic characters for A. badinii are the long basal segment on the acroscopic side of the proximal pinnae as well as the linear to linearlanceolate scales on the stem. /// Uma nova espcie de Asplenium L.  descrita e ilustrada. Asplenium badinii Sylvestre & P. G. Windisch  uma espcie endmica dos capes de mata do Parque Estadual do Itacolomi, no Estado de Minas Gerais, Brasil, em rea dominada por campos rupestres. Este ambiente  reconhecido pela ocorrncia de um grande nmero de espcies e gneros endmicos. Esta espcie pertence ao grupo de A. salicifolium L. Possui pina apical conforme, lmina glabra e esporos com superfcie espinhosa.  afim de A. juglandifolium Lamark e A. bradeanum Handro. Os caracteres diagnsticos so o longo segmento presente no lado acroscpico da poro proximal das pinas basais e as escamas do caule linear-lanceoladas.
10.2307/3391883|A new species in the genus Zamia (Zamiaceae), Z. gentryi, from northwestern Ecuador is described. This arborescent species appears to be most closely allied to Z. roezlii Linden, with which it grows sympatrically along the margins of the populations. Zamia gentryi is occasionally found growing as an epiphyte. Character states that distinguish the two species are presented.
27765215|A new species from Guangxi Province, Impatiens cornutisepala S. X. Yu, Y. L. Chen & H. N. Qin, is described for the Balsaminaceae in China. It is similar to I. dicentra Franchet ex Hooker f. in the 1flowered peduncle and the lobes of the lateral united petals that are terminated by a long filamentous bristle. However, the new species differs from the latter in its narrowly elliptic to oblanceolate leaf blade, the smaller lateral sepals with entire margins and a prominent green cornute appendage dorsally, the spur of the lower sepal that is entire at the tip, and its differing leaf epidermis micromorphology. The micromorphology of seeds and pollen under SEM is presented.
43289106|Ulmus kunmingensis W. C. Cheng (Ulmaceae), originally described in 1963, was an invalidly published name, because two collections, one flowering and one fruiting, were designated as types. The name is validated here with the designation of the fruiting collection W. C. Cheng 11002 (NF) as the holotype.
10.2307/3391919|Cissus acreensis, C. amapaensis, C. apendiculata, C. araguainensis, and C. paraensis, new species of Vitaceae, are described from northern Brazil. These species are distinct in many characters, mainly trichomes, leaf dimorphism, flower disc, fruits, and seeds. In addition to descriptions and illustrations, comments on probable relationships and distributions are presented.
10.2307/3393037|New combinations are made to transfer 13 species from Talinum Adanson to Phemeranthus Rafinesque, which will be recognized separately in the treatment of Portulacaceae being prepared for the Flora of North America (FNA). The new combinations are: Phemeranthus aurantiacus (Engelmann) Kiger, P. brevicaulis (S. Watson) Kiger, P. calcaricus (S. Ware) Kiger, P. calycinus (Engelmann) Kiger, P. humilis (Greene) Kiger, P. longipes (Wooton & Standley) Kiger, P. marginatus (Greene) Kiger, P. mengesii (W. Wolf) Kiger, P. parviflorus (Nuttall) Kiger, P. rugospermus (Holzinger) Kiger, P. sediformis (von Poellnitz) Kiger, P. thomsonii (N. D. Atwood & S. L. Welsh) Kiger, and P. validulus (Greene) Kiger.
10.2307/3393131|Isoetes toximontana is only the second quillwort reported from the Northern Cape region in South Africa. It occurs in shallow water on the Gifberg. Megaspores are uniformly tuberculate on the proximal surface; their distal surfaces may have occasional rugi along with bullae. They are olive green when dry. Microspores are brown and aculeate. Preliminary field studies suggest that an unexpected diversity of quillworts is found in this region.
10.2307/3392999|Setaria inopinata Toolin, sp. nov., is described and illustrated, and a key is provided to separate it from similar species in the genus. Apparently, this caespitose perennial, which resembles S. tenax, occurs only in northwestern Argentina.
23259338|Pterogonium Sw. (Leucodontaceae), a long-used, illegitimate name for what is probably a unispecific genus of mosses, is replaced with an anagram, Nogopterium Crosby & W. R. Buck. The needed new combinations, N. gracile (Hedw.) Crosby & W. R. Buck and N. beyrichianum (Hampe) Crosby & W. R. Buck, are made.
41811678|Field studies and examination of herbarium specimens have led to a taxonomic revision of the Casearia ulmifolia Vahl ex Vent, complex (Salicaceae). A new species circumscription is presented for C. ulmifolia, C. cotticensis Uittien is reestablished, and one new species, C. murceana R. Marquete & Mansano, is described from Par, Brazil. Morphological descriptions, a taxonomic key, geographical distributions, diagnostic characteristics of the species, and illustrations are provided.
10.2307/3393225|New combinations for four South and Central American species formerly assigned to Loasa are proposed: Nasa lindeniana (Urban & Gilg) Weigend and Nasa venezuelensis (Steyermark) Weigend from Venezuela, Nasa speciosa (Donnell Smith) Weigend from Costa Rica and Panama, and Nasa herzogii (Urban & Gilg) Weigend from Bolivia.
10.2307/3393107|Leptochloa simoniana N. Snow is newly described from Papua New Guinea and Boigu Island in the Torres Strait, Queensland, Australia. A key and tabular diagnosis are provided for L. simoniana and morphologically similar congeneric species. It most resembles the sub-Saharan species L. coerulescens. Its chief diagnostic features are the long-sericeous to arachnose hairs at the apex of the callus and the densely scabrous adaxial and abaxial leaf surfaces. The species is currently known from only three sites and is thus considered vulnerable. /// Se describe Leptochloa simoniana N. Snow, una especie nueva de Papa Nueva Guinea y de la Isla Boigu en el Estrecho de Torres, Queensland, Australia. Se proporcionan una clave y una diagnosis tabular para L. simoniana y especies congenricas morfolgicamente similares. Es muy parecida a L. coerulescens, una especie del sub-Sahara. Se distingue principalmente por los tricomas largos a aracnoideos en la base de la lema. En actualidad la especie se conoce slo de tres lugares y por lo tanto se la considera vulnerable.
3393441| Passiflora inca, a new species from Peru and Bolivia, from the Vilcabamba-Amborr corridor, is described. An illustration, photographs of the flower, and SEM photos of the indument and leaf details are presented. The new species differs from the other species of the Passiflora lobbii group in usually multiflowered inflorescences and diffuse laminar nectaries (only known from P. lobbii subsp. ayacuchoensis within the species group). /// Se describe Passiflora inca una especie nueva del corredor Vilcabamba-Amborr de Per y Bolivia. Se presenta una ilustracin y fotografas de la flor y fotos de microscopio electrnico de barrido del indumento y de detalles de las hojas. La especie nueva difiere de las dems especies del grupo Passiflora lobbii en tener inflorescencias multifloras y nectarios laminares difusos (solamente conocidos en P. lobbii subsp. ayacuchoensis en el grupo). 
10.2307/3391802|Peritassa hatschbachii, a new species of Hippocrateaceae from southern Brazil, is described and illustrated. In addition, comments on two other confused species, P. calypsoides and P. mexiae, and a key for identification of Peritassa species from southern Brazil are provided. A lectotype is proposed for P. calypsoides, and complete synonymy is presented.
10.2307/3393173|A new species of the genus Carica, found in forests in southeast Ecuador, is described. Carica palandensis Badillo, Van den Eynden & Van Damme is clearly distinguished from all other Carica species by its always compound leaves with 5-to 9-petiolulate leaflets. /// Se describe una nueva especie del gnero Carica encontrada en los bosques del sureste del Ecuador. Carica palandensis Badillo, Van den Eynden & Van Damme se distingue claramente de las dems especies de Carica por sus hojas siempre compuestas con 5 a 9 fololos petiolulados.
10.2307/3392003|The genus Teesdaliopsis is reduced to synonymy of Teesdalia. The new combination Teesdalia conferta is proposed. A key to the three species of Teesdalia is provided.
10.2307/3392208|A species previously identified as Toxocarpus caudiclavus Choux (Asclepiadaceae, Secamoneae) is outside the morphologic and phylogenetic bounds of this genus. Instead, it is more closely related to the Malagasy endemic genus Pervillea Decaisne (Secamoneae), with which it shares some gynostegium characters. Toxocarpus caudiclavus differs from Pervillea, however, in several characters and is best placed in a new genus, Calyptranthera, which is herein described and illustrated.
40300871|A new species of Caryodaphnopsis Airy Shaw from Henri Pittier National Park, in the Coastal Cordillera of Aragua State, Venezuela, is described and illustrated, and its morphological relationships with allied species are discussed. Caryodaphnopsis fieldii Aymard & G. A. Romero resembles C. fosteri van der Werff, but it is distinguished by leaves with densely puberulent petioles and a rounded apex, pedicels 2-3 mm long, inner tepals 3-4.5 mm long and densely sericeous inside, stout filaments ca. 2 mm long, inner stamens with two globose glands attached at the base, and the pubescent ovary. Geographical information about the Coastal Cordillera region and a key to the Neotropical species of Caryodaphnopsis are presented. This species represents the first report of this genus for Venezuela /// Una nueva especie de Caryodaphnopsis Airy Shaw del Parque Nacional Henri Pittier, en la Cordillera de la Costa, estado Aragua, Venezuela, es descrita e ilustrada, y sus relaciones morfologicas con las especies afines son discutidas. Caryodaphnopsis fieldii Aymard & G. A. Romero es similar a C. fosteri van der Werff, sin embargo, se diferencia de esta especie por sus peciolos densamente puberulentos, el apice redondeado; los pedicelos 2-3 mm de largo; los tepalos internos 3-4.5 mm de largo, densamente serfceos internamente, los filamentos gruesos, ca. 2 mm de largo, los estambres internos con dos glandulas globosas situadas en la base del filamento, y el ovario pubescente. Se presenta information geografica acerca de la Cordillera de la Costa y una clave de las especies Neotropicales de Caryodaphnopsis. Esta nueva especie representa el primer registro del genero para Venezuela.
10.2307/3391530|Parathesis palaciosii is described and illustrated, and its phylogenetic relationships are discussed.
20406306|The Jiuding Ridge (Sichuan, China) has been explored during the past several years by a team from Chengdu Institute of Biology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, and three undescribed species of Corydalis DC. (Fumariaceae) have been revealed and are apparently endemic to this mountain. The new species were observed in forest (C. capitata X. F. Gao, Lidn & Y. W. Wang), alpine scree (C. aeaeae X. F. Gao, Lidn & Y. W. Wang), and alpine rocky limestone areas (C. schistostigma X. F. Gao, Lidn, Y. W. Wang & Y. L. Peng). The two first species have their closest relatives in the Wolong-Balangshan District (Wenchuan, Sichuan). Corydalis aeaeae differs from C. panda Lidn & Y. W. Wang in its small size, few-flowered racemes, and broadly obtuse outer petals with low, short crests. Corydalis capitata differs from the C. flexuosa Franchet complex in the capitate racemes, small flowers with deeply serrate petals, and the peculiar, thin, strictly erect lateral branches. Corydalis schistostigma is unique in the C. curviflora Maximowicz ex Hemsley group, in the deeply cleft stigma and very forward-projecting crests to the inner petals, and possibly has its affinities more to the north and northwest in the Hengduan Mountains.
43289113|Two new species of Passiflora L. (Passifloraceae) endemic to eastern Mexico are described and illustrated and placed in subgenus Decaloba (DC.) Rchb., supersection Decaloba in a clade distinguished by no laminar nectaries. Passiflora dictamo DC. is a synonym of P. biflora Lam., and the rare diminutive species previously assigned to P.dictamo in Killip's monograph is described as P. lauana J. M. MacDougal. A second species, P. complanata J. M. MacDougal, is described and placed in the P. sexflora Juss. species group, where it is notable for its clusters of large flowers to 4 cm diam., flattened stems, and unusual 1/2 phyllotaxy. From Mexico we now recognize 75 native species of passionflowers.
10.2307/3392116|Adenophora ningxianica is described, and its relationships to A. wawreana Zahlbruckner and A. gmelinii (Sprengel) Fischer are discussed.
20406049|Oxypetalum gyrophyllum Farinaccio & Mello-Silva and O. oblanceolatum Farinaccio & Mello-Silva, two new species of Asclepiadoideae (Apocynaceae) from Brazil, are described and illustrated. Both species may be included in the O. insigne (Decaisne) Malme group. Oxypetalum gyrophyllum is closely related to O. glabrum (Decaisne) Malme, differing mainly by bigger and more circular leaves, a smaller corpusculum, and smaller teeth, which are curved inward and included versus curved outward and free. Oxypetalum oblanceolatum is immediately distinguished from all species of this group by oblanceolate leaves, an uncommon character state in the genus. A key for the species of the Oxypetalum insigne group is provided. /// Oxypetalum gyrophyllum Farinaccio & Mello-Silva e O. oblanceolatum Farinaccio & Mello-Silva, duas novas espcies de Asclepiadoideae (Apocynaceae), do Brasil so descritas e ilustradas. Ambas podem ser includas no grupo de Oxypetalum insigne (Decaisne) Malme. Oxypetalum gyrophyllum  semelhante a O. glabrum (Decaisne) Malme, mas difere pelas folhas maiores e circulares, pelo retinculo menor, e pelos dentes menores, inclusos e incurvados. Oxypetalum oblanceolatum  distinto das demais espcies do grupo pelas folhas oblanceoladas, um estado de carter pouco comum no gnero. Urna chave para as espcies do grupo de Oxypetalum insigne  tambm apresentada.
40300879|Cuphea jluviatilis S. A. Graham, a new species of the Lythraceae from the margins of the Rio Samana in Antioquia Department, Colombia, is described and illustrated. The taxonomic relationships of the species are unsettled. The species bears flowers closely similar to those of species in section Amazoniana (Lourteig) Lourteig, but lacks the distinctive malpighiaceous trichomes characterizing the section; its pollen morphology, a significant indicator of broad relationships in Cuphea, is also unlike that of the section. Pollen of section Amazoniana is typically nonsyncolpate, without protruding pores, and with a psilate to finely rugulate exine; that of C. jluviatilis is syncolpate with protruding pores and a striate exine, a type common to numerous species currently classified in the polyphyletic sections Brachyandra Koehne and Euandra Koehne.
10.2307/3392028|A new, cliff-dwelling species, Hedyotis flynnii, is described from the Hawaiian island of Kaua'i. It is distinguished by its conspicuously reticulate leaf venation, reduced leaves, and greenish yellow or sometimes white corollas. Based on morphological observations, it appears to be the first species in the genus known to have a dioecious breeding system. Hedyotis flynnii also expresses a strong corolla size dimorphism, with staminate flowers much larger than the pistillate. The taxonomy of the polymorphic species Hedyotis schlechtendahliana also is reconsidered recognizing the northwestern Kaua'i populations as Hedyotis schlechtendahliana subsp. waimeae, characterized by stiffly chartaceous to coriaceous reticulate leaves, open inflorescences, and subulate bracts and calyx lobes.
43289109|The typification of the name Kochia saxicola Guss. [= Eokochia saxcola (Guss.) Freitag & G. Kadereit] (Chenopodiaceae) is here discussed, and a specimen from the Gussone collection (NAP) is designated as the lectotype. The distribution of the species is given and remarks on its IUCN conservation status are provided.
10.2307/3391722|A new species, Millettia chrysamaryssa Adema from Peninsular Malaysia, is described.
20406276|There is a need to propose a new name in Cyperus L. for C. paucispiculatus Chermezon because the name currently used is an illegitimate later homonym of C. paucispiculatus Bckeler. A new name, C. limiticola Larridon & Reynders, is provided here.
20406081|A new species, Isostigma sparsifolium G. Peter, from central Brazil (State of Gois), resembles I. brasiliense (Gardner) Bentham & Hooker f. in habit; both species are perennial, with stmes branched at the base, ascendant, with peduncles erect, ivolucres bell-shaped, capitula up to 9 mm high and 12 mm in diameter, and the pappus aristate completely hispid. Nevertheless, I. sparsifolium can be distinguished by its pinnatisect leaves distributed along the stems, the stems winged, the peduncles shorter, and the reay corollas white. /// Una nueva especie, Isostigma sparsifolium G. Peter, de Brasil central (Estado de Gois), es similar a I. brasiliense (Gardner) Bentham & Hooker f. en hbito; ambas especies son perennes, con tallos ramificados en la base, ascendentes, con pednculos erectos, involucros acampanados, captulos hasta 9 mm alt. y 12 mm diam., y las aristas del papus completamente hspidas. Isostigma sparsifolium puede ser distinguida por sus hojas pinnatisectas distribuidas a lo largo de los tallos, tallos alados pednculos ms cortos, y corolas de las flores del radio blancas.
10.2307/3393273|Pedicularis inflexirostris F. S. Yang, D. Y. Hong & X. Q. Wang, a new species from the Hengduan Mountains, China, is described. Pedicularis inflexirostris is different from P. tatarinowii Maximowicz in having more slender stems, fewer branches, a cucullate middle lobe of the lower corolla lip, and glabrous filaments. Pedicularis deqinensis H. P. Yang is reduced to a synonym of P. ramosissima Bonati on the basis of their common characters of long and dense branches, recurved calyx teeth, pilose indumentum on the inner margin of the calyx, and cucullate middle lobe of the lower corolla lip.
10.2307/3393072|Draba nylamensis, D. kongboiana, and D. sunhangiana from Tibet (Xizang), China, D. macbeathiana from Nepal, D. bagmatiensis from Nepal and adjacent Sikkim (India), and D. himachalensis from India are described, and their distinguishing characters from the nearest relatives are discussed.
20406198|Astragalus hashtrudicus Ranjbar, a single new species endemic to Iran, is described and illustrated. The new species belongs to subgenus Cercidothrix Bunge, section Incani DC., in Astragalus L. and seems to be distinct among the Iranian species. Astragalus hashtrudicus is distributed in northwestern Iran in the Azarbaijan Sharqi province. It is closely related to A. prilipkoanus Grossheim and is distinguished by its pods that are rather densely covered with appressed white trichomes and its leaflets that lack minute dark reddish dots. The conservation status is evaluated as VU (Vulnerable) according to IUCN criteria.
20406058|A new species of Croton (Euphorbiaceae) from the western slopes of the Andes in Ecuador is described. Croton floccosus is a medium-sized tree that is common along streambeds and disturbed sites in the Pichincha and Imbabura provinces of Ecuador. This species appears most closely related to the Colombian species C. polycarpus Bentham, C. mutisianus Kunth, and C. magdalenensis Mller Argoviensis in section Cyclostigma Grisebach, but differs in having staminate flowers with gland-tipped petals, 15 or 16 stamens with pubescent filaments, and long pedicels (7-16 mm); small fruits (6.4-7.7 mm diameter); and entire to dentate stipule margins. Because of its apparent affinity with these Colombian species, I place Croton floccosus in section Cyclostigma. /// Se describe una nueva especie de Croton (Euphorbiaceae) de las vertientes occidentales de los Andes en Ecuador. Croton floccosus es un rbol mediano que es comn al lado de arroyos y sitios alterados en las provincias de Pichincha e Imbabura en Ecuador. Esta especie parece estar ms cercanamente relacionada con las especies colombianas C. polycarpus Bentham, C. mutisianus Kunth y C. magdalenensis Mller Argoviensis en la seccin Cyclostigma Grisebach, pero difiere por tener las flores estaminadas con ptalos glandulares en el pice, 5  16 estambres con los filamentos pubescentes y los pedicelos largos (7-16 mm); frutos pequeos (6.4-7.7. mm); y los mrgenes de las estpulas enteros o dentados. Debido a su afinidad evidente con estas especies colombianas, incluyo a Croton floccosus en la seccin Cyclostigma.
40300937|Comparative survey of morphological characters shows that Eranthemum tapingense W. W. Smith is better treated in Mackaya Harvey. Consequently, a new combination, M. tapingensis (W. W. Smith) Y. F. Deng & C. Y. Wu, is proposed, and its lectotype is designated. The species is distributed in China and Burma (Myanmar).
43288937|Based initially on the morphological similarity between species belonging to Actinocephalus (Krn.) Sano and Paepalanthus Mart, subsect. Aphorocaulon Ruhland (Eriocaulaceae), these taxa werestudied to clarify their relationships. After intensivefieldwork and morphological analyses of specimensbelonging to Paepalanthus subsect. Aphorocaulon andActinocephalus, we conclude that Paepalanthus subsect.Aphorocaulon and Actinocephalus should not beclassified as different taxa. This taxonomic opinion isconfirmed by published phylogenetic morphologicaland molecular data. We propose herein to includespecies of Paepalanthus subsect. Aphorocaulon inActinocephalus. Thus nomenclatural and taxonomicchanges are proposed in Actinocephalus and Paepalanthuswith the following 16 new combinations: A.actinocephaloides (Silveira) F. N. Costa [= P. actinocephaloides Silveira], A. arenicola (Silveira) F. N. Costa [= P. arenicola Silveira], A. armeria (Mart, ex Krn.) F. . Costa [= P. armena Mart, ex Krn.], A. bahiensis (Bong.) F. N. Costa [= P. bahiensis (Bong.) Kunth], A. barbiger (Silveira) F. N. Costa [= P. barbiger Silveira], A. geniculatus (Bong.) F. N. Costa [= P. geniculatus (Bong.) Kunth], A. ghreosus (Bong.) F. N. Costa [= P. glareosus (Bong.) Kunth], A. heteropus (Silveira) F. N. Costa [= P. heteropus Silveira], A. incanus (Bong.) F. N. Costa [= P. incanus (Bong.) Krn.], A. longifolius (Km.) F. . Costa [= P. longifolius Krn.], A. perbracchiatus (Silveira) F. N. Costa [= P. perbracchiatus Silveira], A. phaeocephalus (Ruhland) F. N. Costa [= P. phaeocephalus Ruhland], A. rhizomatosus (Silveira) F. N. Costa [= P. rhizomatosus Silveira], A. scytophyllus (Ruhland) F. . Costa [= P. scytophyllus Ruhland], A. trichopeplus (Silveira) F. N. Costa [= P. trichopeplus Silveira], and A. velutinus (Silveira) F. N. Costa [= P. velutinus Silveira]. In addition, nine new synonyms and lectotypifications for the six following names are presented: Paepalanthus subsect. Aphorocaulon Ruhland, PaepaLnthus subsect. Aphorocaulon  Incan Ruhland [unranked], Paepalanthus subsect. Aphorocaulon  Condensati Ruhland [unranked], P. incanus (Bong.) Krn. var.  Krn., P. praemorsus Ruhland, and A. scytophyllus (Ruhland) F. . Costa. As newly circumscribed, the genus Actinocephalus comprises 49 species restricted to Brazil, with the Espinhao Range as the center of species diversity. Species of Actinocephalus can be distinguished principally by the presence of paraclades covered by bracts and rarely a single scape arranged in an umbelliform coflorescence at the apex. Baseado inicialmente na similaridade morfolgica entre as especies pertencentes  Actinocephalus (Krn.) Sano e Paepalanthus Mart, subsect. Aphorocaulon Ruhland, estes taxons foram estudados a firn de elucidar suas relaes. Aps intensivo trabalho de campo e estudo da morfologia das especies pertencentes a Paepalanthus subsect. Aphorocaulon and Actinocephalus, conclumos que nao  possvel reconhecer Paepalanthus subsect. Aphorocaulon and Actinocephalus como dois taxons distintos. O posicionamento das especies de Paepalanthus subsect. Aphorocaulon em Actinocephalus tambm foi confirmado em anlises filogenticas publicadas por outros pesquisadores, empregando dados morfolgicos moleculares. Portanto, propomos aqui a incluso das especies de Paepalanthus subsect. Aphorocaulon em Actinocephalus, assim como as mudanas nomenclaturais e taxonmicas em Actinocephalus e Paepalanthus, com dezesseis novas combinaoes: A. actinocephaloides (Silveira) F. N. Costa [= P. actinocephaloides Silveira], A. arenicola (Silveira) F. N. Costa [= P. arenicola Silveira], A. armera (Mart, ex Krn.) F. . Costa [  . armera Mart, ex Krn.], A. bahiensis (Bong.) F. N. Costa [= P. bahiensis (Bong.) Kunth], A. barbiger (Silveira) F. N. Costa [= P. barbiger Silveira], A. geniculatus (Bongl) F. N. Costa [= P. geniculatus (Bong.) Kunth], A. glareosus (Bong.) F. N. Costa [= P. glareosus (Bong.) Kunth], A. heteropus (Silveira) F. N. Costa [= P. heteropus Silveira], A. incanus (Bong.) F. N. Costa [= P. incanus (Bong.) Krn.], A. longifolius (Krn.) F. N. Costa [= P. longifolius Krn.], A. perbracchiatus (Silveira) F. N. Costa [= P. perbracchiatus Silveira], A. phaeocephalu (Ruhland) F. . Costa [= P. phaeocephalus Ruhland], A. rhizomatosus (Silveira) F. N. Costa [= P. rhkomatosus Silveira], A. scytophyllus (Ruhland) F. . Costa [= P. scytophyllus Ruhland], A. trichopeplus (Silveira) F. N. Costa [= P. trichopeplus Silveira], and A. velutinus (Silveira) F. N. Costa [= P. velutinus Silveira]. Tambm sao propostas nove novas sinonimias e lectotipificaoes para os seis nomes: Paepalanthus subsect. Aphorocaulon Ruhland, Paepalanthus subsect. Aphorocaulon  Incan Ruhland [unranked], Paepalanthus subsect. Aphorocaulon  Condensati Ruhland [unranked], P. incanus (Bong.) Krn. var.  Krn., P. praemorsus Ruhland e A. scytophyllus (Ruhland) F. N. Costa. Considerando esta nova circunscriao, o genero Actinocephalus abrnge 49 especies restritas ao Brasil, com centro de diversidade localizado na Cadeia do Espinhao. Os representantes deste genero podem ser distinguidos principalmente pela presena de paracldios cobertos por brcteas e portando, no pice, um nico escapo ou ento numerosos escapos em um arranjo umbeliforme.
3393542|A new Astragalus species (family Fabaceae) with a glabrous ovary and pod, loose inflorescence, and 3 to 5 leaflets is described and illustrated: Astragalus joharchii. It is endemic to the Khorassan province of eastern Iran. Morphological evidence (bifurcated trichome, long stem, connate stipules, few leaflets, short peduncle, campanulate calyx, non-inflated calyx in fruit) supports taxonomic placement in Astragalus sect. Ammodendron, and the species appears to be most closely related to A. glabellus, as they share a glabrous ovary, glabrous pod, number of leaflets, and peduncle length.
41811664|Amaranthus pedersenianus N. Bayn & C. Pelez (Amaranthaceae) is a new Argentinian species of Amaranthus L. subg. Albersia (Kunth) Gren. & Godr. and is described and illustrated from the province of Salta. It is found in Andean puna and prepuna in both Salta and Jujuy provinces at altitudes between 2800 and 3775 m. Amaranthus pedersenianus is similar to A. cardenasianus Hunz., A. hunzikeri N. Bayn, A. kloosianus Hunz., A. squamulatus (Andersson) B. L. Rob., and A. urceolatus Benth. by its urceolate pistillate flowers with five sepals. The new taxon differs by its ascendant or erect habit, height of 5-20 cm, presence of leafless, short terminal inflorescences, flowers with usually four or five stamens, and dehiscent fruits.
10.2307/3391416|Ocotea pharomachrosorum (Lauraceae), of the Ocotea helecterifolia-group from Costa Rica and Panama, is described here.
10.2307/3393007|During preparation of the account of Maianthemum F. H. Wiggers for the Flora of China, volume 24, it was found that two taxa formerly treated under Smilacina Desfontaines required the following new combinations in Maianthemum, namely M. fusciduliflorum (Kawano) S. C. Chen & Kawano and M. stenolobum (Franchet) S. C. Chen & Kawano.
10.2307/3393246|Oxalis salvadorensis, a new species from the mixed lowland forests of western El Salvador, is described. An illustration is provided, and the differences between this and other morphologically similar Mesoamerican species of Oxalis are discussed.
10.2307/3391813|Morphological and distributional data are presented for Hedyotis serpyllacea, native to Guatemala and southern Mexico. The species is transferred to Arcytophyllum, extending the range of the genus northward from Costa Rica, Panama, and South America.
20406042|In the light of morphological and molecular evidence that the genus Mascagnia is polyphyletic, eight segregate genera are described, discussed, and illustrated, the necessary new combinations are proposed, and five new species are described (Amorimia camporum, A. kariniana, A. septentrionalis, A. velutina, and Niedenzuella caracasana). Keys to genera and species are provided. The genera and species are: Adelphia W. R. Anderson [A. hiraea (Gaertner) W. R. Anderson, A. macrophylla (Rusby) W. R. Anderson, A. mirabilis (W. R. Anderson) W. R. Anderson, A. platyrachis (Triana & Planchon) W. R. Anderson]; Aenigmatanthera W. R. Anderson [A. doniana (Grisebach in Martius) W. R. Anderson, A. lasiandra (A. Jussieu) W. R. Anderson]; Alicia W. R. Anderson [A. anisopetala (A. Jussieu in A. St.-Hilaire) W. R. Anderson, A. macrodisca (Triana & Planchon) W. R. Anderson]; Amorimia W. R. Anderson [A. amazonica (Niedenzu) W. R. Anderson, A. camporum W. R. Anderson, A. concinna (C. V. Morton) W. R. Anderson, A. exotropica (Grisebach in Martius) W. R. Anderson, A. kariniana W. R. Anderson, A. maritima (A. Jussieu) W. R. Anderson, A. pubiflora (A. Jussieu in A. St.-Hilaire) W. R. Anderson, A. rigida (A. Jussieu in A. St.-Hilaire) W. R. Anderson, A. septentrionalis W. R. Anderson, A. velutina W. R. Anderson]; Carolus W. R. Anderson [C. anderssonii (W. R. Anderson) W. R. Anderson, C. chasei (W. R. Anderson) W. R. Anderson, C. chlorocarpus (A. Jussieu) W. R. Anderson, C. dukei (Cuatrecasas & Croat) W. R. Anderson, C. renidens (A. Jussieu) W. R. Anderson, C. sinemariensis (Aublet) W. R. Anderson]; Christianella W. R. Anderson [C. glandulifera (Cuatrecasas) W. R. Anderson, C. mesoamericana (W. R. Anderson) W. R. Anderson, C. multiglandulosa (Niedenzu in Chodat & Hassler) W. R. Anderson, C. paludicola (W. R. Anderson) W. R. Anderson, C. surinamensis (Kostermans) W. R. Anderson]; Malpighiodes Niedenzu [M. bracteosa (Grisebach in Martius) W. R. Anderson, M. guianensis (W. R. Anderson) W. R. Anderson, M. leucanthele (Grisebach in Martius) W. R. Anderson, M. liesneri (W. R. Anderson) W. R. Anderson]; and Niedenzuella W. R. Anderson [N. acutifolia (Cavanilles) W. R. Anderson, N. caracasana W. R. Anderson, N. castanea (Cuatrecasas) W. R. Anderson, N. glabra (Sprengel) W. R. Anderson, N. leucosepala (Grisebach) W. R. Anderson, N. lucida (A. Jussieu in A. St.-Hilaire) W. R. Anderson, N. mater-dei (Cuatrecasas) W. R. Anderson, N. metensis (Cuatrecasas) W. R. Anderson, N. mogoriifolia (A. Jussieu in A. St.-Hilaire) W. R. Anderson, N. multiglandulosa (A. Jussieu) W. R. Anderson, N. peruviana (Niedenzu) W. R. Anderson, N. poeppigiana (A. Jussieu) W. R. Anderson, N. sericea (A. Jussieu in A. St.-Hilaire) W. R. Anderson, N. stannea (Grisebach) W. R. Anderson, N. suaveolens (A. Jussieu) W. R. Anderson, N. warmingiana (Grisebach) W. R. Anderson]. Lectotypes are designated for the following names: Heladena hassleriana Niedenzu in Chodat & Hassler, Hiraea anisopetala A. Jussieu in A. St.-Hilaire, Hiraea glabra Sprengel, Hiraea heteropetala A. Jussieu, Hiraea multiflora Grisebach, Hiraea poeppigiana A. Jussieu, Hiraea pubiflora A. Jussieu in A. St.-Hilaire, Hiraea renidens A. Jussieu, Hiraea rigida A. Jussieu in A. St.-Hilaire, Hiraea sericea A. Jussieu in A. St.-Hilaire, Malpighiodes Niedenzu, Malpighiodes spruceana Niedenzu, Mascagnia sect. Pleuropterys Grisebach in Martius, Mascagnia subsect. Sericopetalis Niedenzu, Mascagnia coriacea Grisebach in Martius, Mascagnia exotropica Grisebach in Martius, Mascagnia jamaicensis Urban & Niedenzu, Mascagnia multiglandulosa Niedenzu in Chodat & Hassler, Mascagnia parnahybensis Glaziou, Mascagnia sericans Niedenzu in Chodat & Hassler, Tetrapterys fraxinifolia A. Jussieu, Tetrapterys guilleminiana A. Jussieu, Tetrapterys lancifolia A. Jussieu, Tetrapterys ligustrifolia Niedenzu, Tetrapterys lucida A. Jussieu in A. St.-Hilaire, Tetrapterys martiana Niedenzu, Tetrapterys mogoriifolia A. Jussieu in A. St.-Hilaire, Tetrapterys multiglandulosa A. Jussieu, Tetrapterys punctulata A. Jussieu in A. St.-Hilaire.
10.2307/3392158|Gambeya nyangensis is shown to have been based on a mixed collection. The name is lectotypified and the species, with an amended description, is transferred to Synsepalum.
10.2307/3391391|Phylogenetic analyses based on molecular data indicate that the species of Rollandia are embedded within the genus Cyanea and that together these genera form a monophyletic group. Cyanea and Rollandia are therefore merged under the former name. A revised key to the baccate genera of Hawaiian Lobelioideae and an expanded description of the genus are provided; eight new combinations and one new name are proposed; and lectotypes are selected for Rollandia humboldtiana and R. longiflora var. angustifolia. This expanded circumscription makes Cyanea the largest genus in the Hawaiian flora, with 64 species and 10 heteronymic subspecies.
3393427| Suaeda neuquenensis, a new species of Suaeda (Chenopodiaceae), is described from Aelo's Bowl near Aelo, Neuqun Province, Argentina. It differs from other perennial Argentinean species in being a decumbent shrub with creeping stems that root at the lower nodes bearing short, oblong, often reflexed leaves and a large seed. 
40856312|In preparation for the treatment of Arctotis L. (Asteraceae) in the upcoming Conspectus of the Trans-Cape Succulent Karoo Flora of South Africa, the typification of names and synonymy for nine Arctotis species that occur within the Succulent Karoo region, South Africa, are clarified. The author citation for A. argntea is corrected from Thunb. to A. argentea Aiton, and the lectotype is selected. In addition, lectotypes are designated for A. auriculata Jacq., A. campanulata DC, A. campanulata var. puberula DC., A. canescens DC., A. cineraria Jacq., A. cuprea Jacq., A. denudata Thunb., A. diffusa Thunb., A. fastuosa Jacq., A. flaccida Jacq., A. flammea Jacq., A. glabrata Jacq., A. laevis Thunb., A. leucanthemoides Jacq., A. maximilianii Schltr. ex Beauverd, A. pusilla DC., A. revoluta Jacq., A. rosea Jacq., A. squarrosa Jacq., A. venidioides DC., and Venidium aureum DC.
23018455|A new species of Gesneriaceae, Petrocosmea huanjiangensis Yan Liu & W. B. Xu, is described and illustrated from northern Guangxi, China. The new species is related to P. martini (H. Lv.) H. Lv. but is distinguished on the basis of the peltate leaf blade, the densely lanate androecial filaments 67.2 mm long, the rostellate, cordateovoid anthers that are constricted near the apex, and the three staminodes, 23 mm long.
3393472|Matelea corrugata, from Costa Rica, M. costaricensis, from Costa Rica, M. emmartinezii, from Mexico, M. ferruginea, from Guatemala, M. filipes, from El Salvador, M. haberi, from Costa Rica, M. insolita, from Nicaragua, and M. velutinoides, from Mexico and Guatemala, are described as new. The new combinations Ditassa nigrescens (= Ditassa tatei), Gonolobus glaberrimus (= Matelea tikalana), Marsdenia fruticosa, and Polystemma guatemalense (= Matelea quirosii), are proposed, and the latter two are lectotypified. Asclepias angustifolia, A. auriculata, A. similis, Gonolobus barbatus, G. erianthus (= G. macranthus), G. guatemalensis, Marsdenia gymnemoides, Matelea gentlei, and Pherotrichis schaffneri are lectotypified or neotypified. The typification, synonymy, and application of Pherotrichis villosa are discussed.
27765193|A new species of Gesneriaceae (tribe Gloxinieae) is described from Ecuador and Peru in South America. Pearcea pileifolia J. L. Clark & L. E. Skog is vegetatively distinctive from all other species of Pearcea Regel by its oblong leaf blades with crenate to serrate margins and markedly anisophyllous, opposite leaves with the smaller leaf in a pair reduced to a scalelike appendage. Observations of the bivalved fruit dehiscence and the resulting appearance of winged appendages in P. pileifolia and other congeners are discussed.
10.2307/3393216|The new genus Ianthopappus Roque & D. J. N. Hind (Compositae, Mutisieae) is described, and a new combination, Ianthopappus corymbosus (Lessing) Roque & D. J. N. Hind, is made. The single species is easily distinguished by its subshrubby habit, discolorous leaves with actinodromous venation, corymbiform inflorescences, and a 3-seriate pappus with ca. 130 free, purple setae. Comparison is made between Ianthopappus and other members of the Mutisieae that possess apiculate to acuminate apical anther appendages and are placed in a more narrowly defined subtribe Gochnatiinae. Ianthopappus is distributed in southern South America from Brazil (Rio Grande do Sul), Uruguay, and northern Argentina.
40300919|Two new Brazilian species of Phyllanthus L. are described and illustrated and their morphological affinities are discussed. Phyllanthus longipedicellatus M. J. Silva resembles P. augustinii Baill. but differs by its leaves oblong-falcate to falcate-asymmetrical with margins obscurely serrulate, and pistillate flowers with patelliform disk. Phyllanthus salesiae M. J. Silva is similar to P. rosmarinifolius Miiller Argoviensis but it differs from the latter by its lacerate stipules, deeply lobed pistillate disk, incurved and bifid style, and seeds with darkish punctations. Both species are endemic to Brazil and known only from a single locality. The systematic position of both species with regard to the sections and subsections of Phyllanthus is also discussed. /// Duas novas espcies de Phyllanthus L. do Brasil so descritas e ilustradas com suas afinidades morfolgicas discutidas. Phyllanthus longipedicellatus M. J. Silva assemelha-se a P. augustinii Baill., mas difere desta pelos folhas oblongo-falcadas a falcado-assimetricas com margens discretamente serruladas e flores pistiladas com disco pateliforme. Phyllanthus salesiae M. J. Silva assemelha-se a P. rosmarinifolius Miiller Argoviensis do qual difere pelas estpulas laceradas, disco pistilado profundamente lobado, estiletes encurvados e bifidos e sementes com pontuaes enegrecidas. Ambas as espcies so endmicas para o Brasil, conhecidas de suas respectivas colees-tipo e tm suas posies sistemticas discutidas em relao a sees e subsees de Phyllanthus.
10.2307/3393523|Chionographis japonica var. hisauchiana Okuyama is raised to specific rank as C. hisauchiana (Okuyama) N. Tanaka, since it differs markedly from C. japonica (Willdenow) Maximowicz var. japonica in several characters. Chionographis japonica var. minoensis H. Hara and C. japonica var. kurohimensis Ajima & Satomi are transferred to C. hisauchiana at subspecific rank as C. hisauchiana subsp. minoensis (H. Hara) N. Tanaka and C. hisauchiana subsp. kurohimensis (Ajima & Satomi) N. Tanaka, respectively. A key to the four taxa accepted here is presented.
23018507|The Neotropical genus Posoqueria Aubl. (Rubiaceae) has a number of species with an asymmetric androecium and pollen catapult mechanism and others that apparently lack these features. A new taxonomy based on corolla form and size, the length and symmetry of the filaments, and fruit morphology finds the name P. panamensis (Walp. & Duchass.) Walp. to be a synonym of P. latifolia (Rudge) Roem. & Schult. and distinguishes additional species in southern Central America and northwestern South America, newly described here: P. chocoana C. M. Taylor of wet lowland Panama to northwestern Ecuador has medium-sized corollas, subglobose fruits, corolla lobes of unequal size, and a generally symmetric androecium that apparently lacks the pollen catapult mechanism; P. correana C. M. Taylor of lowland and premontane Panama has medium-sized corollas, leaf blades that are sharply acute at the apex and densely velutinous abaxially, slightly unequal corolla lobes, and a generally symmetric androecium that apparently lacks the pollen catapult mechanism; P. costaricensis C. M. Taylor, found in premontane forests in Costa Rica and Panama, has relatively short corollas (for Posoqueria) and a generally symmetric androecium that apparently lacks the pollen catapult mechanism; P. grandifructa Hammel & C. M. Taylor of lowland Nicaragua and Costa Rica has medium-sized corollas, relatively large, ellipsoid, rough-surfaced, thick-walled fruits, and a generally symmetric androecium that apparently lacks the pollen catapult mechanism; P. longifilamentosa C. M. Taylor of lowland northwestern Ecuador has relatively long corollas and an asymmetric androecium with a pollen catapult mechanism, relatively long unequal filaments, and relatively large anthers; and P. robusta Hammel & C. M. Taylor of lowland Nicaragua and Costa Rica has leathery leaves, relatively long corollas with unequal lobes, subglobose leathery fruits, and a symmetric androecium that apparently lacks the pollen catapult mechanism. El gnero neotropical Posoqueria Aubl. (Rubiaceae) incluye varias especies con androceo asimtrico y un mecanismo de dispersin del polen por catapulta, y varias especies sin estes carcteres. Una taxonoma nueva basada en la forma y el tamao de la corola, el largo y la simetra de los filamentos y la morfologa de los frutos demuestra que el nombre P. panamensis (Walp. & Duchass.) Walp. es sinnimo de P. latifolia (Rudge) Roem. & Schult., y distingue otras especies en el sur de Amrica Central y el noroeste de Amrica del Sur, nuevamente descritas aqu: P. chocoana C. M. Taylor de tierra baja hmeda de Panam al noroeste de Ecuador tiene corolas de tamao mediano, frutos subglobosos y los lobos de la corola de tamao desigual, adems un androceo por lo general simtrico que aparentemente no tiene el mecanismo de catapulta de polen; P. correana C. M. Taylor de tierra baja y premontana de Panam tiene corolas de tamao mediano, hojas con la lmina muy aguda en el pice y densamente veltina en el envs, lobos de la corola un poco desiguales y un androceo por lo general simtrico que aparentemente no tiene el mecanismo de catapulta de polen; P. costaricensis C. M. Taylor, de bosques premontanos en Costa Rica y Panam, tiene corolas relativamente cortas (para Posoqueria) y un androceo por lo general simtrico que aparentemente no tiene el mecanismo de catapulta de polen; P. grandifructa Hammel & C. M. Taylor de tierra baja de Nicaragua y Costa Rica tiene corolas de tamao mediano, frutos relativamente grandes, elipsoides, de superficie tosca y de pared gruesa y un androceo por lo general simtrico que aparentemente no tiene el mecanismo de catapulta de polen; P. longifilamentosa C. M. Taylor de tierra baja de Ecuador tiene corolas relativamente largas, un androceo asimtrico con un mecanismo de catapulta de polen, filamentos relativamente largos y desiguales y anteras relativamente grandes; y P. robusta Hammel & C. M. Taylor de tierra baja de Nicaragua y Costa Rica tiene hojas coriceas, corolas relativamente largas con los lobos desiguales, subglobosos frutos coriceos y un androceo simtrico que aparentemente no tiene el mecanismo de catapulta de polen.
10.2307/3391763|Carex scirpoidea Michaux var. convoluta Kkenthal and C. scirpoidea Michaux var. pseudoscirpoidea (Rydberg) Cronquist are herein recognized and elevated to subspecies, and Carex scabriuscula Mackenzie and Carex gigas (Holm) Mackenzie are treated as synonyms.
23018510|Sciaphila jianfenglingensis Han Xu, Y. D. Li & H. Q. Chen (Triuridaceae) is described and illustrated as a new species endemic to Hainan Island, China. It differs from the closely related S. arfakiana Becc. by its longer leaves to ca. 2 mm (vs. ca. 1 mm in S. arfakiana), shorter fruiting pedicels 36 mm (vs. typically 79 mm), three stamens (vs. two or three), 2-celled anthers (vs. 4-celled), and a filiform style (vs. awl-shaped) that far exceeds the ovary.
10.2307/3391935|Details of typification are presented for 25 of the 27 existing binomials in Ancistrocladus Wallich (Ancistrocladaceae). Holotypes are indicated for A. carallioides Craib, A. congolensis J. Lonard, A. ealaensis J. Lonard, A. extensus Wallich ex Planchon, A. griffithii Planchon, A. guineensis Oliver, Wormia hamata Vahl [A. hamatus (Vahl) Gilg, A. vahlii Arnott], A. harmandii Gagnepain, A. heyneanus Wallich ex J. Graham, A. korupensis D. W. Thomas & Gereau, A. letestui Pellegrin, A. likokoi J. Lonard, A. pachyrrhachis Airy Shaw, A. pinangianus Wallich ex Planchon, A. robertsoniorum J. Lonard, Bembix tectoria Loureiro [A. tectorius (Loureiro) Merrill], A. thwaitesii Tieghem, A. uncinatus Hutchinson & Dalziel, and A. wallichii Planchon. Previously designated lectotypes are indicated for A. abbreviatus Airy Shaw and A. barteri Scott-Elliot, lectotypes are newly designated for A. attenuatus Dyer and A. cochinchinensis Gagnepain, and the probable need for neotypification of A. hainanensis Hayata is discussed. Two names, A. pentagynus Warburg and A. sagittatus Wallich ex Planchon, are excluded from the genus.
10.2307/3392966|For the upcoming treatment of the genus Mirabilis for the Flora of North America North of Mexico, M. linearis (Pursh) Heimerl is treated as having three thoroughly intergrading varieties: M. linearis var. linearis, M. linearis var. decipiens (Standley) S. L. Welsh, and M. linearis var. subhispida (Heimerl) Spellenberg, a new combination published here, based on M. linearis f. subhispida Heimerl. Mirabilis linearis var. subhispida is common on the Great Plains, where it has most often passed as narrow-leaved phases of M. hirsuta (Pursh) Macmillan, or as M. gausapoides (Standley) Standley. A key is provided to distinguish the three varieties of M. linearis.
10.2307/3393509|Clidemia clandestina (Melastomataceae) of Costa Rica and Panama is newly described as part of a review of the goblet-flowered species from tropical America. This natural group of three species, including C. garciabarrigae and C. utleyana, is characterized by 5-merous flowers that are goblet-shaped in profile view with erect red petals that are connivent and cucullate at anthesis, minute anther thecae with wide ventrally inclined apical pores, and a completely inferior 3-locular ovary. An original chromosome count of n = 17 is reported for C. utleyana, and a count of n = 23 is reported for C. clandestina and C. garciabarrigae. The significance of these chromosome numbers is evaluated in the context of previous reports for the tribe Miconieae together with a diagnostic key, descriptions, illustrations, new distributional information, phenological notes, and citations of representative specimens.
10.2307/3391672|Nomenclatural changes are made for the Flora of China, affecting Anisodus, Archiphysalis, Leucophysalis, Physaliastrum, and Scopolia.
10.2307/3393558| Dichapetalum berendinae, D. findouense, D. inaequale, and D. mathisii (Dichapetalaceae) are described as new from Gabon. All four species are illustrated, and their distributions are mapped. The necessary adaptations of the keys, for the Central African species as well as for the Flore du Gabon, are provided. /// Dichapetalum berendinae, D. findouense, D. inaequale et D. mathisii (Dichapetalaceae) du Gabon sont dcrits et illustrs. Les cartes de rpartition des quatre espces sont prsentes. Les adaptations ncessaires pour la cl des espces centreafricaines de Dichapetalum ainsi que pour celle de la Flore du Gabon sont ajoutes. 
10.2307/3391862|Of South American Xyris sent to the author for determination by the Missouri Botanical Garden and The New York Botanical Garden, six appear to be new species: three (X. boliviana, X. guillenii, and X. subasperula, sent from MO) are recent collections from eastern Bolivia; two (X. amorimii and X. ferreirae, sent from NY) are Brazilian, from Bahia and Amazonas, respectively. A sixth (X. gongylospica) was collected from the Guayana Highlands of Bolvar, Venezuela. All are described and illustrated, and their relationships are discussed.
10.2307/3392134|Rhadamanthus involutus is a rare, hysteranthous-leaved species from the Bokkeveld Escarpment, west of Nieuwoudtville, Northern Cape Province, South Africa. Most closely related to R. albiflorus B. Nordenstam, R. involutus is distinguished by apically recurved outer tepals that are conspicuously spotted with green at the base, and suberect inner tepals that have involute margins which overlap to form a tube. The bulbs grow on exposed sandstone sheets between patches of dry fynbos and flower in midsummer.
10.2307/3392002|Heteropterys mulgurae, from Misiones, Argentina, and Paran, Brazil, and H. schulziana, from Salta, Argentina, are described as new, and the distinction of each from its closest sister species is discussed.
10.2307/3393153|A new subspecies, Dicerandra frutescens Shinners subsp. modesta (Labiatae), is described for Florida. Occurring only in Polk County, this new taxon is distinguished from D. frutescens subsp. frutescens in Highlands County by the number of flowers per cyme, corolla coloration, shape of the upper lip of the corolla, and chromosome number. A new variety, D. immaculata Lakela var. savannarum, is described from east coastal Florida and is separated from D. immaculata var. immaculata by its wider leaves and lax habit.
3393451| Close examination of the type specimens of Aconitum acutiusculum and of A. acutiusculum var. aureopilosum has shown that their inflorescence rachis and pedicels are all yellowish spreading pubescent, and thus the two taxa show no essential difference from each other. They are merged herein. A new combination, A. ouvrardianum var. acutiusculum (Fletcher & Lauener) Q. E. Yang & Y. Luo, is proposed, considering that A. acutiusculum is most similar to A. ouvrardianum in having leaves 3-sect with ultimate lobules linear or lanceolate-linear, inflorescence rachis and pedicels yellowish spreading puberulent, and the upper sepal navicular-galeate, yet distinguishable by the acute tip of the lateral sepals; they are sympatric in geographical distribution, both occurring in Dqn County, northwestern Yunnan. 
3393312|Holcoglossum weixiense X. H. Jin & S. C. Chen, a new species of Orchidaceae from Yunnan, China, is described and illustrated. It resembles morphologically H. sinicum Christenson and H. flavescens, but it can be distinguished from the former by having a transverse callus on the lip, a papillose spur, and a semi-orbicular mid-lobe, and from the latter by its pending habit, longer and semiterete leaves (more than 10 cm), and the semi-orbicular mid-lobe.
10.2307/3392094|Jaltomata sagastegui and J. cajamarca, both of Peru, Dept. Cajamarca, Prov. Contumaz, are described and shown in photographs. Jaltomata sagastegui is self-compatible and has a chromosome number of n = 12; the type was collected at 2500 m elevation. Jaltomata cajamarca grows between 1700 m and 2600 m elevation. Berries of both species are eaten by humans. /// Jaltomata sagastegui y J. cajamarca, las dos de Per, dpto. Cajamarca, prov. Contumaz, se describen y muestran en fotografas. Jaltomata sagastegui es auto-compatible y tiene un nmero de cromosomas de n = 12; el tipo fue colectado a 2500 m s.n.m. Jaltomata cajamarca crece entre 1700 m y 2600 m s.n.m. Las bayas de las dos especies son comestibles.
3393452|Some names of Diplopterygium widely used in Chinese literature of pteridophytes are not valid; therefore, formal combinations of five names for Diplopterygium species from China are validated, i.e., D. criticum (Ching & P. S. Chiu) Ching ex X. C. Zhang, D. rufum (Ching) Ching ex X. C. Zhang, D. rufopilosum (Ching & P. S. Chiu) Ching ex X. C. Zhang, D. simulans (Ching) Ching ex X. C. Zhang, and D. yunnanense (Ching) Ching ex X. C. Zhang. Diplopterygium rufopilosum is lectotypified.
3393471|On the basis of morphological characters inconsistent with their current taxonomic placements, new combinations are made for the following species of woody bamboos within the flora of China: Ampelocalamus breviligulatus, Ampelocalamus hirsutissimus, Ampelocalamus melicoides, Drepanostachyum semiorbiculatum, Drepanostachyum ampullarium, Drepanostachyum membranaceum, and Bonia parvifloscula. To accommodate broader generic concepts, new combinations are made for Arundinaria qingchengshanensis and Arundinaria spanostachya, and new status is given to Bashania as Arundinaria subgen. Bashania, and to Sarocalamus as Arundinaria subgen. Sarocalamus.
10.2307/3392242|Morphological characters support the description of five new species of Millettia, M. capuronii Du Puy & Labat, M. hitsika Du Puy & Labat, M. nathaliae Du Puy & Labat, M. orientalis Du Puy & Labat, and M. taolanaroensis Du Puy & Labat, and one new species of Pongamiopsis, P. viguieri Du Puy & Labat, from Madagascar. The genus Neodunnia R. Viguier is considered to be a synonym of Millettia, and two new combinations, M. aurea (R. Viguier) Du Puy & Labat and M. richardiana (Baillon) Du Puy & Labat, are made. /// L'tude des caractres morphologiques permet la description de cinq nouvelles espces de Millettia: M. capuronii Du Puy & Labat, M. hitsika Du Puy & Labat, M. nathaliae Du Puy & Labat, M. orientalis Du Puy & Labat, et M. taolanaroensis Du Puy & Labat, et une nouvelle espce de Pongamiopsis, P. viguieri Du Puy & Labat, de Madagascar. Le genre Neodunnia R. Viguier est considr comme tant un synonyme de Millettia et deux nouvelles combinaisons, M. aurea (R. Viguier) Du Puy & Labat and M. richardiana (Baillon) Du Puy & Labat, sont faites.
23018474|The new species Cestrum sotonunezii Mont.-Castro (Solanaceae) is described from central Mexico. Because of their overall similarity, specimens of the new species have been previously confused with C. flavescens Greenm., C. aurantiacum Lindl., C. oblongifolium Schltdl., and C. thyrsoideum Kunth, all of which also occur in central Mexico. The new species is most similar to C. flavescens, but is clearly separated by several characteristics, mainly differences in the androecium. The new species is described and illustrated, and a key to distinguish morphologically similar species in central Mexico (Guerrero, Michoacn) is provided. Se describe la especie nueva Cestrum sotonunezii Mont.-Castro (Solanaceae) proveniente del centro de Mxico. Las colecciones de la nueva especie han sido confundidas con otras especies que se distribuyen en el centro de Mxico como C. flavescens Greenm., C. aurantiacum Lindl., C. oblongifolium Schltdl. y C. thyrsoideum Kunth. Con la primera especie guarda gran parecido pero C. sotonunezii est claramente separada por varias caractersticas, especialmente en los estambres. Se incluye ilustracin de este taxon y clave para diferenciar especies morfolgicamente similares del centro de Mxico (Guerrero, Michoacn).
3393325|In the course of studying the systematics of the subtribe Saccharinae (Poaceae: Andropogoneae), it was noticed that the name Pseudopogonatherum capilliphyllum S. L. Chen, published to replace the legitimate name Eulalia filifolia S. L. Chen, is nomenclaturally superfluous and therefore illegitimate. A new combination in Pseudopogonatherum, P. filifolium (S. L. Chen) H. Yu, Y. F. Deng & N. X. Zhao, is proposed here.
10.2307/3392012|Calycolpus australis (Myrtaceae) of Minas Gerais, Brazil, is described as a new species. It is perhaps most similar to C. alternifolius but differs in various floral characters. This new species extends the range of the genus six degrees of latitude farther south.
10.2307/3391756|Holomitrium hawkinsii differs from all other species in the genus by its dioicous condition with full-sized male and female plants. It is close to H. pulchellum, an entire-leaved species of Holomitrium, but is a larger plant with longer, more slender leaves that have upper margins obscurely and distantly dentate to spiculose, and lower leaf margins distantly serrulate. A key to the seven species of Holomitrium in Central America is given.
3393349| Se describen Weinmannia cogolloi y W. vulcanicola (Cunoniaceae), dos nuevas especies de Colombia y Costa Rica respectivamente. Weinmannia cogolloi es un taxn bastante singular dentro del gnero, por la presencia de inflorescencias paniculadas con ejes secundarios evidentes; aunque se encuentra algo relacionada con W. latifolia C. Presl y W. macrophylla Kunth, estas ltimas se separan por sus inflorescencias racemosas. Weinmannia vulcanicola se encuentra relacionada con W. trianaea Weddell, de la que se separa por sus hojas con mayor nmero de fololos, con la lmina ms pequea y el raquis alado, as como por el conspicuo indumento de sus ramitas jvenes. /// Weinmannia cogolloi and W. vulcanicola (Cunoniaceae), two new species from Colombia and Costa Rica, respectively, are described. Weinmannia cogolloi is distinct within the genus on account of its paniculate inflorescences, with conspicuous secondary axes; it is somewhat related to W. latifolia C. Presl and W. macrophylla Kunth, but these species are easily separated by their racemose inflorescences. Weinmannia vulcanicola is somewhat related to W. trianaea Weddell, but it is distinguished by its leaves with more and smaller leaflets, winged rachis, and the indument of the young stems. 
3393395|The new name Festuca sinomutica X. Chen & S. M. Phillips (Poaceae) is proposed for a species of Festuca from Yunnan Province, China.
