41760509|Frullania schumannii (Casp.) comb. nov. (= Lejeunea schumannii Casp. 1887) and F. scyphoides Mgdefrau 1957 from Baltic amber (Eocene) are conspecific. A detailed description with photomicrographs, also of the hitherto unknown 9 involucre, is provided. Frullania schumannii probably belongs to the subgen. Australes (Verd.) Hatt., of which the recent species are restricted to E. and S. Asia and Australasia.
41760492|The following new species and varieties of Phacidiales and Ostropales are described: Colpoma deusta, from Oregon, Schizoxylon juniperinum var. cylindrospermum, from Turkmenian S.S.R., Schizoxylon punctatum, from India, Stictus radiata var. aggregata, from Chile, and Stictis reticulata, from Kirghiz S.S.R. Two western North American species of Stictis are reported for the first time from the eastern hemisphere.
41760511|Some events of the life of the bryologist Ferdinand Renauld (1837-1910) are reviewed. He published two important works: "Prodrome de la flore bryologique de Madagascar..." in 1896 and, "Essai sur les Leucoloma..." in 1906. The role of some of the officials of the Principaut de Monaco in these publications is also reviewed, PC purchased his herbarium in 1909. An inventory of F. Renauld's correspondence, kept at PC, shows 826 letters from 119 bryologists, botanists, and friends. Some extracts from letters written by N. Boulay, E. Bescherelle, E. Delamare, I. Franc, in addition to some information on their lives, provide a better knowledge of these four botanists.
41760523|Patouillard described 235 polypores of which 44 are accepted; 161 are regarded as synonyms. The type specimens of 17 species could not be located, and 11 are in such a bad condition that they could not be identified or described properly. The names of two species are invalid. The following new combinations are proposed: Antrodia eutelea (Har. & Pat.) Ryv., Aurificaria euphoriae (Pat.) Ryv., Coltricia duportii (Pat.) Ryv., Hyphodontia brevidens (Pat.) Ryv., Inonotus pseudoradiatus (Pat.) Ryv., Perenniporia isabellina (Pat. ex Sacc.) Ryv., P. roseoisabellina (Pat. & Gail.) Ryv., Rigidoporus crocatus (Pat.) Ryv., Spongipellis caseosus (Pat.) Ryv., Tyromyces caesioflavus (Pat.) Ryv., T. eberhardtii (Pat.) Ryv. and Wrightoporia iobaphus (Pat.) Ryv.
41760504|Diatom biology originated in America around 1840 in the publications of Jacob W. Bailey. This sketch examines the influences of John Torrey, the American scientific community, especially its geologists, and the contemporary states of microscopy and diatom biology on the composition and direction of Bailey's early work.
41760475|The present paper deals with my study of the foliicolous lichens in the Farlow Herbarium (FH). New localities are reported for the first time from the following countries: USA, Guatemala, Belize (formerly British Honduras), Mexico, Cuba, Jamaica, Puerto Rico, Trinidad, Chile, China, Indonesia, New Guinea, and the Pacific Islands. Aulaxina microphana, Tricharia dilatt a and  apellara bilimbioides are reported for the first time from America. Byssoloma subdiscordans f. puertoricensis is new; the taxonomic status of Calenia triseptata Zahlbr. is unclear at the present time; a Lopadium from Puerto Rico is temporarily referred to Lopadium subpilosum (Vain.) Zahlbr.
41753108|Seventeen species of the genus Pulvinula are discussed in this treatment. A synoptic key to these species is provided as are descriptions of most of them. A review of the pertinent literature is given and comments on the morphology of members of the genus are provided. One new species, P. neotropica Pfister is described and several new combinations are made. Listed with the synonyms and excluded species of Pulvinula are a number of spherical-spored species of Pezizales which were examined in the course of this study and which are referred to other genera.
41760491|The Wilkes Exploring Expedition's collection of diatoms included samples primarily associated with seaweeds collected in the southern Atlantic and Pacific regions and of Miocene diatomite and recent materials collected in Oregon (USA) between 1838 and 1842. J. W. Bailey was instrumental in the generation of the samples, their subsequent analyses and the resulting publications. The past, present and projected extents of these samples and the contributions of Bailey to the published literature on the Expedition's diatoms are discussed. Lectotypes are designated for nine diatom species in the genera Amphitetras, Arachnoidiscus, Aulacodiscus, Campylodiscus, Cocconeis and Triceratium that were derived from the Expedition and authored by Bailey and W. H. Harvey and Bailey.
41760390|Stereocaulon arenarium, originally described as a form of St. denudatum from Kamtchatka, proves to be a distinct species, similar in its morphology and ecology to St. arcticum Lynge, but chemically different (porphyrilic acid instead of stictic acid). Characteristic of the tundra zone, it has apparently a more restricted borealarctic distribution than St. arcticum.
41760505|"Prof." C C Shelton, place and date of birth unknown, collected plants for John Torrey in the mountains above Sacramento. Letters and records not located. He was associated with the artist Paul Emert of New York City, but no record of Shelton's association with founders of California Academy of Sciences were found unless perhaps with Albert Kellogg. Shelton, a victim of the Jenny Lind steamboat explosion, collected four California species first named by Torrey.
41760487|Biostictis chroodiscoides, Lillicoa thaxteri, and L. speciosa from Trinidad, and Schizoxylon spiraeae, from New Hampshire, are described as new. The imperfect stages of B. chroodiscoides and B. psychotriae, the type species of Biostictis, are discussed, and Erinella bicolor is transferred to Lillicoa.
41760457|The assumption that the fungi lack a useful fossil record is dispelled by reports of approximately 500 fossil species. They are summarized here according to one taxonomic treatment and are presented in tabular and graphic form. In addition, a comprehensive bibliography of the fossil fungi is presented. A careful consideration of the preservation and occurrence of fossil fungi reveals that caution must be used in their interpretation. It is also concluded that the fungi were probably more numerous and diverse in the geological past than is generally recognized.
41760481|Cirrulicarpus carolinensis sp. nov. is a cartilaginous, complnate, subdichotomously branched, red alga which inhabits the submerged rocky reefs off the North Carolina coast. The plant is perennial and grows by means of a marginal, surface meristem. In section, the blades consist of a medulla of primary stellate and secondary filiform cells and a cortex of large, subglobose inner cells that grade into smaller, nearly globose outer cells. The carpogonial branch apparatus consists of one or two carpogonial branches of three cells and occasionally up to two subsidiary cells borne on a large, lobed supporting cell. Carposporophyte development is distinctive in that the gonimoblast filaments appear to form from vegetative instead of reproductive cells. The life history consists of an alternation of gametophyte and carposporophyte generations.
41760486|Based primarily on collections made by the authors in 1973 and 1974, the bryophyte flora of the central part of Bathurst Island (ca. 7543'N, 9825'W), Northwest Territories, Canada, is reported to consist of 21 species of Hepaticae (including 4 represented by varieties) and 112 species of Musci (11 of which are represented by one or more varieties). The flora of the entire island is known to consist of 131 species of Musci. This is the first report of liverworts for Bathurst Island, and 55 moss taxa are here reported as new to the flora. Bryum algovicum var. rutheanum (Warnst.) Crundw. is new to North America and Bryum aeneum Blytt ex B.S.G., Cephaloziella uncinata Schust. in Schust. & Dams., Drepanocladus sendtneri (Schimp.) Warnst., Metacalypogeia schusterana Hatt. & Mizut., Orthothecium chryseum var. cochleatifolium (Lindb.) Limpr., Orthottichum jamesianum Sull. ex James, Pterygoneurum ovatum (Hedw.) Dix., and Seligeria campylopoda Kindb. ex Mac. & Kindb. are reported as new to the Queen Elizabeth Islands. Because geological evidence indicates that the study area was freed of ice or marine waters only relatively recently, the two mainly temperate zone mosses found in the area, viz. Pterygoneurum ovatum and Seligeria campylopoda, are viewed as postglacial immigrants rather than indicating the presence of iceless areas on the island during the Pleistocene.
41760392|A new genus and species of Chlorophyta (Siphonales: Codiaceae), Siphonoclathrus stri, collected at Galeta Reef, Panama, 924'18"N latitude, 7951'53"W longitude, is described and illustrated.
41753109|Plant fossils in an exposure of Two Creeks Forest Bed peat about 11,850 years old, near Green Bay, Wisconsin, include 32 species of mosses representative of a variety of forest and nonforest habitats. The assemblage, which contains few aquatics and many calciphiles, establishes that a diverse flora of temperate, boreal, and arctic mosses occurred in northwestern Wisconsin just prior to and during active glaciation. Most of the mosses identified presently grow in Wisconsin or elsewhere in the upper Great Lakes area, but two, Aulacomnium turgidum and Hypnum bambergeri, now rarely occur farther south than arctic and subarctic regions. Present-day occurrences of some of these species in the Great Lakes region may, in part, date from the period when forest bed sediments accumulated. The represented vegetation, an open, more or less dry Picea glauca woodland with rich fens and dry sites, perhaps on dune sand, is inferred from pollen spectra, mosses, cones, seeds and twigs obtained from the peat.
41760503|The new lichen species Ramalina sayreana (Ascomycetes: Ramalinaceae) from central Mexico produces a homologous series of orcinol para-depsides including 2-O-methylstenosporic acid (the major product) and 2-O-methyldivaricatic acid, both of which are new substances, and 2-O-methylperlatolic acid.
41760507|The originally monotypic eastern Malaysian genus Schiffneriolejeunea Verdoorn 1933 has now become a widespread, pantropical group of about fifteen species by the inclusion of species from the genus Ptychocoleus Trev. nom. Meg. Six species are known from Asia, three of which constitute the sect. Saccatae (Verdoorn) Gradst. & Terken comb. nov. These are the widespread Schiffneriolejeunea tumida (Nees) Gradst., the eastern Malaysian S. cumingiana (Mont.) Gradst. and S. nymannii (Steph.) Gradst. & Terken comb. nov. Schiffneriolejeunea tumida is a rather polymorphic species in which two not sharply defined varieties may be distinguished: S. tumida var. tumida with more or less involuted leaf margins, and S. tumida var. haskarliana (Gott.) Gradst. & Terken comb. nov. with plane margins.
41760520|This paper reviews the history, nomenclature, morphology, and relationships of Coccomyces (Phacidiales: Rhytismataceae) and provides keys to and detailed descriptions of the fifty species accepted in the genus. Also included are descriptions of Biostictis tjibodensis, four species of Karstenia, Cerion leucophaeum, Myriophacidium corticola and M. tridentatum. Of the fifty accepted species of Coccomyces, 29 were previously accepted in the genus, five (C. bipartitus, C. castanopsidis, C. foliicola, C. petersii, and C. philippinus) are new combinations, and 16 (C. annulatus, C. antillarum, C. arbutifolius, C. concolor, C. crystalligerus, C. duplicarioides, C. farlowii, C. irretitus, C. monticola, C. palmicola, C. parvulus, C. radiatus, C. tesselatus, C. tympanidiosporus, C. urceolus, and C. venezuelae are described as new.
41760396|Stereocaulon sterile and Stereocaulon groenlandicum, originally described as a form of St. evolutum and a variety of St. rivulorum respectively, are shown to be distinct species. The former has an amphipacific distribution areal (mostly in western North America), while the latter appears to be circumpolar boreal-arctic. St. groenlandicum contains a combination of lichen substances unusual for the genus (perlatolic, miriquidic and anziaic acids, in addition to atranorin).
41760388|A new genus and species, Hummbrella hydra, of uncertain taxonomic position among the Rhodophyta, collected at several locations in the Juan Fernandez Islands, is described and illustrated.
41760482|The three known species of Cirrulicarpus have complanate, cartilaginous, repeatedly branched thalli which reach similar maximum heights. The plants are narrowly cuneate at their holdfasts and have apices which are broadly rounded or dichotomously or irregularly lobed. All the species have filamentous medullary systems and carpogonial branch apparati consisting of elongated or lobed cells. They differ in the number of carpogonial branches and subsidiary cells located on the supporting cell, the appearance and arrangement of cystocarps, the presence or absence of "giant cells" in the medulla, and in minor features of blade morphology.
41760510|Seven species of Riccia collected in Costa Rica in 1979 and six species from the Botanical Garden of Mexico in 1966 and 1979 are reported. Of the Costa Rican collections four are known from Tropical America and three are widely distributed throughout the world. Of the Mexican material R. dorsiverrucosa Hassel is the most interesting since previously it had never been found with spores. The spores are described and illustrated.
41760483|The genus Sphaerotheciella Fleisch., previously known from eastern Asia, is reported new to the neotropics (Mexico and Venezuela). The combination S. pinnata (B.S.G.) Manuel is made. Cryphaea corrugata Card, and Pilotrichum decurrens C. Mll, are conspecific with S. pinnata. All names are lectotypified. The presence of endosporic germination and intrathecial protonemata in Sphaerotheciella is discussed.
41760513|After an introduction on R. Hooke (1635-1703) and his Micrographia (1665), comments are made on the illustration and text of Observation XXI, "Of Moss and several other small vegetative Substances." The illustration may represent more than one species, of which Bryum capillare Hedw. sens. lat. may be one. Attention is drawn to: (1) the lack of reference in the text to the cell structure of the moss leaves in the illustration, (2) Hooke's views on spore dispersal and the possibility of spontaneous generation, (3) a possible reference to moss protonema.
41760508|An annotated resume is provided of works which allow rapid and easy access to source materials of importance to the bryological taxonomist. The works are considered in two categories, the first, specimen retrieval and the second, literature retrieval. Attention is drawn to some gaps in the aids currently available for recovering pertinent data.
