10.2307/3676707|The content of marrow, heart and body fat was determined in 39 Black Grouse. Amounts of body fat varied between 4.0 g and 67.7 g. The highest values were found in breeding females (ovary fat was excluded). Amounts of marrow fat and heart fat were correlated with body fat, except marrow fat in breeding females. There was no evidence that malnutrition can be characterized by a critical amount of body fat. Black Grouse rapidly lost body weight when their food intake was reduced and it is suggested that they deal with sporadic food shortages, such as snowstorms and iceing of vegetation, by catabolizing muscle protein.
10.2307/3676285|Behaviour of Pomarine Skuas was studied in Alaska. Food mainly consisted of Brown Lemmings, hunted by birds perching on mounds, or flying 3-10 m high, with 1-3 second hovering bouts. Skuas caught and handled prey with the bill only, and pursued lemmings in burrows by tearing the roof. Calls included a long call sequence and two alarm calls. The long call was associated with Wing-raising and Oblique displays, in flying birds with Slow Wing-beat display and V-gliding. Displays were used in territorial defence towards skuas and gulls, alarm calls towards other predators. Comparison with other skuas shows that displays and calls are similar to those of the Great Skua S. skua. This and other evidence indicate closer affinities between these species than was previously supposed.
10.2307/3676901|Between 1970 and 1983, more than 1500 Nuthatch nestlings were banded in an area of about 400 km<sup>2</sup>. By regular trapping sessions at feeding sites and checking of roosting and breeding birds, 55 of them were recaptured within the study area (3.6%). Dispersal distances varied between 36 m and 11 km, with a median around 1 km. We found no difference in dispersal distance between males and females, nor between young from early and late broods. The absence of a sexual bias in dispersal is explained by the symmetry in territorial behaviour of the sexes. An analysis of movements after the first recapture showed no evidence for dispersal after the birds' first summer.
10.2307/3675905|After androgen implants, territorial Red Grouse cocks sang more than before, had more encounters with neighbours, and chased hens more, and did so more than unimplanted cocks. They moved more often on to adjacent territories, and took ground there despite the neighbours being initially dominant. Androgen-implanted non-territorial cocks challenged territorial cocks and eventually got small territories despite losing most encounters. After an oestrogen implant, a territorial cock with a big territory and two hens was deserted by hens, sang less, had fewer encounters with neighbours, and eventually gave up his territory.
10.2307/3676035|A Ural Owl Strix uralensis population in central Sweden was studied from 1969 to 1978. 84 territories were documented but the true population size probably was close to 100 pairs. Average density was about 0.05 pairs km<sup>-2</sup> but in certain areas was as high as <tex-math>$0.25\ \text{pairs}\ {\rm km}^{-2}$</tex-math>. The main prey was small rodents, especially Arvicola terrestris and Microtus agrestis, the former of which made up 60% of the total food biomass. Microtus agrestis and Clethrionomys glareolus varied greatly in numbers between years with peaks in 1969, 1973 and 1977. Vole lows occurred in 1971 and 1975. When voles were scarce the Ural Owl partly fed on other mammals, birds and amphibians. Breeding frequency, clutch-size and production of young varied in synchrony with vole abundance. Mean clutch-size was 2.9 eggs/pair. The annual variation in breeding start was related to vole abundance, and laying was postponed in springs with low vole densities. Clutch-size was strongly correlated to laying date. The clutch on average decreased by <tex-math>$0.12\ {\rm eggs}\ {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math> as the breeding season progressed. Clutch-size was independent of the age of the female. The very low nestling mortality indicates that the most common clutch-size was smaller than the most productive: Mean production of young, including unsuccessful pairs, was 1.12 young/pair. However, more than one third of the population lacked nest-sites and when these pairs were included the annual reproductive output was 0.73 young per pair.
10.2307/3676905|Students of avian ecology have recently paid attention to assortative mating according to continuous characters. For three wader species also observations of disassortative mating exist. Here I report on assortative mating in the Little Ringed Plover. Mating was positively assortative according to overall body size, i.e. large males and large females nested together and vice versa. It is argued that size-related differences in spring arrival might cause the mating pattern observed.
10.2307/3676525|Nest site selection and nest predation were studied at 42 Grey Partridge and 65 Red-legged Partridge nests in southern England. The vegetation characteristics and other habitat features recorded at nests were compared with those recorded at randomly chosen points on field boundaries. Grey Partridges chose to nest where amounts of dead grass, leaf litter and bramble were greater and banks at the base of the field boundary were higher than in adjacent nesting cover. Red-legged Partridges nested where amounts of dead grass, nettle, bramble and leaf litter were greater than in surrounding field boundary vegetation. Grey Partridge nest predation decreased with increasing amounts of dead grass and increasing distance from gaps in the hedgerows. Red-legged Partridge nest predation decreased with increasing ground vegetation height. The consequences of nest site selection on nest predation are compared for the two species of partridge and considered in the light of the habitats in which they evolved.
10.2307/3675936|Breeding land birds on 10 paired 10 ha tracts in five separate stands of mature oak-hickory forest in the South Carolina Piedmont were censused by the Spot-Mapping method (SM). Eleven Variable Circular-Plot (VCP) counting stations, five placed systematically in each SM tract and an additional one located at random, were placed in each stand. Four techniques for summarizing VCP data provided density estimates for comparison with SM results at the tract, stand, and overall scales. VCP recorded 50 of 55 species encountered by SM, failing to tally only species that were visitors or were extremely difficult to detect. VCP yielded both over and underestimates of SM densities at all spatial scales. VCP results were more similar at larger scales and less similar to SM values at smaller scales, although long confidence intervals at smaller scales masked imprecision. No summarization technique for VCP data was clearly superior; each worked better for species with certain characteristics affecting detectability. Results of comparable accuracy were obtained by VCP in 20% of the time required by SM.
10.2307/3676554|Resource access of Willow Tits Parus montanus living in hierarchical order in coherent winter flocks was related to social rank. Mean relative foraging heights in pine trees were positively correlated with rank order. When foraging in pines, 78% of the records for dominant adults and 16% of those for subordinate juveniles were from the upper half of the tree, a region probably providing better protection from predators than the lower half. Although their rank order varied between flocks, adult females generally foraged highest of all flock members. At high ambient temperatures the flocks split up temporarily into subflocks, each most often consisting of an adult pair or juveniles, and reunited when the temperature decreased. At higher air temperatures, when away from the adults, the juveniles foraged closer to the tops of the trees than at lower air temperatures, when together with the adult members of the flock. Removal experiments revealed that the adults prevented the juveniles from using the upper parts of the trees, i.e. those generally preferred by these tits.
10.2307/3676380|In contrast to the majority of sub-Antarctic species, the Gentoo Penguin Pygoscelis papua has a long laying season, especially in the Crozet archipelago. A 3-year study at this locality has provided the first detailed analysis of laying patterns and inter-annual variations in its breeding. Unusually large variations in the timing of breeding may be related to food shortage early in the breeding season. The capacity of this penguin to overcome reproductive failure by relaying seems to be the major factor responsible for the extended laying season. Relaying was, however, associated with a cost; birds breeding late in one year often either did not breed or had their breeding delayed in the following year. Delayed laying in the Gentoo Penguin is unexpected for a bird of smaller size and shorter breeding cycle than larger seabirds such as albatrosses and King Penguins Aptenodytes patagonicus that also exhibit this phenomenon. In this northernmost locality for the Gentoos, delayed laying seems to be linked to its difficult reproduction in a limited inshore feeding-niche.
10.2307/3676823|We studied variations in reproductive success within and between Belgian heronries to evaluate the hypotheses that colonial breeding in Grey Herons is an anti-predator adaptation or an adaptation to facilitate food-finding. Breeding success of Grey Herons did not increase with number of breeding pairs present, nor with increasing synchronization of breeding, and pairs nesting in the centre of the heronry did not fledge more chicks than pairs nesting at the edge. We found no consistent differences in the timing of onset of reproduction and in clutch size between and within heronries. There was a suggestion that first-year breeding birds tended to occupy nests at the edge of a heronry, but their proportion in the breeding population probably was too small to affect the results. We suggest that the predation pressure is too low to cause anti-predator responses, such as mobbing, to evolve among herons. There was no evidence for a higher chick survival as a consequence of increasing information transfer through increased number of breeding pairs. The data suggested that new heronries establish near suitable foraging sites, but that overall reproduction success decreases when more pairs settle.
10.2307/3675914|The food of Willow Grouse chicks, based on the content of 96 crops from 1974 and 1975, is given. The food items eaten were studied in relation to the availability. Highly preferred plant species were Vaccinium myrtillus, V. uliginosum and Polygonum viviparum. Adult Diptera and Hemiptera and Lepidoptera larvae were the most important animal food. Per cent dry weight of animal food declined from some 60 in chicks 0-3 d old, to less than 5 in chicks older than three weeks. Choice of invertebrates depended more on availability than did the choice of plants. The activity of the insects did not seem to affect the chicks' choice of these food items, however, very fast insects like Phoridae were little eaten. Willow Grouse chicks selected for bigger than average-sized insect prey.
10.2307/3675955|Data are assembled from a number of sources on several species of Procellariiformes breeding on South Georgia, covering the amount, frequency and energetic content of feeds brought to the young, and flight speeds on foraging expeditions. The rate at which energy is delivered to the young is discussed in terms of "relative delivered power", whose dependence on foraging radius is discussed. Species in the 3-5 kg range of body mass achieve the most relative delivered power for a given foraging radius, while very large and very small species are at a disadvantage, for different reasons. When due account is taken of the scaling of time, the largest and smallest species take twice as long to fledge as those of intermediate size. The methods of scaling delivered power, growth rate and fledging time are intended to be applicable to other groups of birds.
10.2307/3676732|Ingested radioactive sulphur, <sup>35</sup> S, in amino acids, is readily incorporated in growing feathers. In a growing rectrix, or tail feather, the radioactivity will be deposited in the part of the feather that develops during the day(s) after ingestion. In an autoradiographic picture it will appear as a dark band across the feather. In a combined laboratory and field study of Willow Parus montanus and Marsh Tits P. palustris, I used this (1) to assess the accuracy of ptilochronology and in an effort to improve that method and (2) to test the technique's usefulness for studies of food retrieval in food-hoarding bird species. The study confirmed that one growth bar (consisting of one light and one dark portion) represent one day's growth of the feather. It also demonstrated that radioactive labelling can be used to pinpoint the exact date at which a particular growth bar was formed. It can also be used to identify simultaneously grown bars in successively plucked rectrices thus extending the period during which ptilochronology can be used, e.g. to study birds' nutritional status over the whole winter. During selective provisioning of radioactive seeds to either partner of a Willow Tit pair, the bird first ate a couple of seeds and then stored the rest. However, some radioactivity showed up in the rectrix of the partner (who was only fed unlabelled seeds on this occasion) indicating that it had been able to pilfer the partner's caches.
10.2307/3676714|Effect of age on the distance at which Black-billed Magpies Pica pica flush from an approaching observer was studied in an urban area. Handling for banding purposes had no significant effect; banded and unbanded magpies showed no differential sensitivity to observer approach. Juveniles tolerated closer approach than adults. Between the ages of 1 and 5 months, the distance at which juveniles took flight in the face of an approaching observer increased significantly. Among adults, the flushing distance increased steadily up to the age of 3 yr, but was constant thereafter. Younger birds probably learned from older birds to avoid the danger of being approached too closely by the observer.
10.2307/3676422|Reactions of Willow Warblers Phylloscopus trochilus, Reed Buntings Emberiza schoeniclus, Blackcaps Sylvia atricapilla and Bluethroats Luscinia svecica, towards mimetic model Cuckoo Cuculus canorus eggs were tested by exchanging one of their eggs for a model plastic egg. Reactions of Willow Warblers, Reed Buntings and Bluethroats towards a foreign conspecific egg were also tested. Some Willow Warblers were also tested with Great Tit Parus major eggs. The Willow Warblers, Reed Buntings and Blackcaps rejected mimetic model eggs at a high rate (90-100%), while the Bluethroats showed a lower (but not statistically significant) rejection rate (63%). The Willow Warblers and the Bluethroats accepted conspecific eggs, but the Reed Buntings rejected some of these eggs (3 of 8 trials). Great Tit eggs, which resemble Willow Warbler eggs in colour and pattern but are bigger (although considerably smaller than Cuckoo eggs), were rejected in 5 of 6 trials. The responses of the above species towards mimetic model eggs were similar to those previously reported for non-mimetic eggs. This behaviour pattern is important in providing an explanation for their present status as only rare hosts of the Cuckoo.
10.2307/3676274|The passerine community was censused by territorial mapping at four different points along a forest gradient. For each community, species diversity was calculated by Shannon's formula, and dominance index by summing the relative abundance values of the two most abundant species. Diversity and dominance were negatively correlated. Foliage profiles in each plot were estimated, and diversity of stratification calculated by Shannon's formula. An index of vegetation cover was calculated as the sum of the cover values of the shrub and tree layers. Bird species diversity was positively correlated with both vegetation cover and diversity of stratification, whereas dominance index was negatively correlated with the same factors. The way of subdividing the vegetation which gave the best correlations was: 1) all nonwoody plants, 2) all woody plants < 3 m above ground-level, and 3) all woody plants > 3 m.
10.2307/3676389|The changes in body temperature ( T<sub> b</sub>), respiratory frequency (<tex-math>${\rm f}_{{\rm R}}$</tex-math>) and oxygen consumption (M) of two free-living Pied Flycatcher females were recorded during the incubation period. T<sub> b</sub> followed a marked diurnal rhythm, with maximum temperatures around noon or just afterwards and minimum temperatures during the night. Upon entering the nest T<sub> b</sub> decreased (phase 1) to a minimum level (phase 2) and then increased (phase 3) prior to the female's next period-off. Phases 1-2 and part of phase 3 coincided with the warming up of the eggs to an incubation temperature of approx. 35-37C. The duration of the female's periods-on was negatively related to the egg temperature at the start of incubation and positively to the metabolic rate. Respiratory frequency was high at the onset of the periods-on, declined thereafter, and finally levelled off; <tex-math>${\rm f}_{{\rm R}}$</tex-math> tended to increase again shortly before the female left the nest. Experimental maintenance of the eggs at incubation temperature during the female's periods-off resulted in an immediate increase in T<sub> b</sub> when she resettled on the eggs, and a marked shortening of the periods-on. Conversely, when the eggs instead were cooled down during the female's periods-off, the following periods-on were considerably lengthened and M correspondingly increased. The long-lasting nightly period-on (mean length 7.0 h) showed the same three phases as the daytime periods-on. Mean T<sub> b</sub> during the nightly phase 2, characterized by a relatively stable level of T<sub> b</sub> and lasting on average 4.8 h, was negatively correlated both with the air temperature and the female's metabolism. In the middle of the night, following sudden, experimental changes in nest box temperature, the incubating female's M was immediately adjusted so as to maintain egg temperature at an appropriate level. According to the present results, female attentiveness seems to be basically regulated by an internal rhythm, modified by the ambient temperature. Our data do not support the hypothesis that the incubating female breaks off her incubation periods when the eggs have reached the optimal incubation temperature level.
10.2307/3676696|The timing of roosting flights of wintering Common Cranes Grus grus was correlated with the time of sunset for the whole population as well as for the last flock. Birds usually flew to the roost with a certain delay with respect to sunset. The magnitude of this delay was clearly associated with the amount of additional illumination from the moon. The delay in the roosting time of the last flock was almost exclusively determined by the amount of moonlight, while the average delay of the population increased linearly throughout the entire lunar cycle. This suggests that endogenous components might be involved in regulating the roosting time of the majority of the birds, while certain individuals adjust their roosting time as late as light conditions allow. Reduced food availability was most probably the factor determining the delay, as shown by the significant inverse correlations between both delay variables studied and food abundance in the study area.
10.2307/3676300|Chicks of the Manx Shearwater show a slow growth rate until an age of 8 to 10 d, after which they grow faster. This change coincide with the time at which the chicks are left unbrooded during the daytime. A high metabolic and insulatory capacity enables the chicks to maintain a stable high body temperature at an early age compared with other birds with similar nest-bound behaviour and low growth rate. This makes the chicks independent of parental brooding very early in development and enables both adult birds to forage.
10.2307/3676025|Observations on the migration of raptors were carried out during two periods in September 1968 and September-October 1969 in the Lebanon, mostly from a village in the mountains north of Beirut. Twenty-four species were seen, and large numbers of the following were noted: Aquila pomarina (both periods), Pernis apivorus (Sept. 1968) and Accipiter brevipes (Sept. 1968). Details on each species are given in a systematic list. Many species were in accordance with recent observations from the Bosphorus, and large proportions had no doubt passed this way, but there was evidence of contributions from birds coming east of the Black Sea. The migration pattern of Aquilae is discussed, and it is suggested that rapax and heliaca are closely related.
10.2307/3676018|The seasonal changes in body composition and crop content of Spitzbergen ptarmigan Lagopus mutus hyperboreus, shot at Svalbard were studied. A remarkable deposition of fat started in August and peaked in October/November, when dissectible fat made up as much as 32 and 24% of body weight in adults and juveniles, respectively. The variations in body fat neatly followed the changes in photo-period, but bore no relationship on climatic conditions. Thus, consumption of fat stores started at the onset of the continuous winter night, and they were exhausted in February when the sun-light reappeared, although winter conditions at this location continue into the month of May. The mobilization of body fat in the dark period was accompanied by a considerable drop in crop content, indicating a decrease in food intake at this time of the year. Fat free body weight of the birds only underwent minor variations throughout the year. It is suggested that the fat deposition in Spitzbergen ptarmigan serves the purpose of making these birds less dependant on food intake in the midst of the high-arctic winter, when the dark period makes access to food a matter of chance.
10.2307/3675912|The breeding bird community of mature pine forests with highly similar foliage profiles was examined on the regional level using data from two censuses from Poland, three censuses from Central Finland, and three censuses from Finnish Lapland. Several parameters revealed a greater difference between the Lapponian and Central Finnish than the Central Finnish and Polish communities. The diversity index H' did not show a similar decreasing pattern from Poland through Central Finland to Lapland as the land bird diversity of wider areas including the whole spectrum of habitats of a particular region or zoogeographical zone.
10.2307/3676902|Effects of experimental clutch enlargement on weight change and incubation schedules of individual incubating male Dotterels were measured. Two birds which were in good physical condition when the experiment started, rapidly lost weight. They also took more frequent periods off the nest, while the average length of these periods changed only slightly. Two birds in poor physical condition (> 10% lighter than average) had a low attendance even on 3-egg clutches, leaving few times each day but for longer periods. An increase in clutch size is one of these nests did not alter this incubation schedule. These data indicate that the 3-egg clutch of the Dotterel has evolved as a compromise between a high incubation constancy and the energy demands of the single incubating male.
10.2307/3676052|Serum glucose determinations were performed at the same time of year on moulting sedentary Redpolls Acanthis flammea and migrating Robins Erithacus rubecula. The serum glucose level in Redpolls is maintained around 3.3 g/l throughout the postjuvenal moult with little diurnal variation. In Robins, the serum glucose level after one night of migration remains constant at 3.4 g/l until noon, and then increases in the afternoon up to 4.10 g/l. The low glucose levels of the morning are recovered whether Robins are migrating or not. The physiological significance of these results is tentatively discussed.
10.2307/3676472|Annual and seasonal variation in clutch and egg size are described for a Willow Grouse Lagopus l. lagopus population in central Norway, during 1978-83. There were no age-related differences in clutch size and egg size although adult hens were heavier than yearlings. Second clutches (probably re-laid) contained fewer and larger eggs than did first clutches. Clutch size differed between years and was negatively correlated with mean laying date, but there were no differences between years in egg size and hen weight. The size of individual territories ranged from 2.8 to 12.3 ha but bore no relationship to clutch size, egg size and hen weight. Clutch size decreased throughout the season, both among first and second clutches, but there was no relationship between laying date and egg size. Data on hens nesting in consecutive years showed that much more of the clutch and egg size variation was accounted for by differences between hens than by differences between territories.
10.2307/3676694|Territorial and non-breeding Hooded Crows were removed from an area of sub-arctic island habitat between mid-May and August each year for 4 years. The number of breeding pairs on the culled area declined to zero by the fourth year. Breeding numbers on an adjacent control area remained stable. Numbers of non-breeders on the island also declined, though less drastically. Fledged broods on the control area remained mainly on their respective territories during the culling period. Few fledged young returned to the island after wintering elsewhere. The results indicated that breeding and non-breeding crows can be culled locally without significantly affecting crow breeding numbers on adjacent areas.
10.2307/3676057|Creche formation and behaviour of duckling and adult Shelduck Tadorna tadorna were studied during 1970-1972 on the Ythan estuary, Scotland. Most 'creching' occurred when ducklings were less than one week old and involved two-thirds of the broods studied. Some ducklings passed through at least three creches during their development, some creches contained ducklings from at least four different broods, and some adults reared ducklings that were not their own. Only successful breeding adults guarded creches. Females attending their broods until all ducklings fledged survived just as well as those which lost their broods. Duckling mortality was significantly higher in creches than in family broods. Growth of ducklings was faster in larger creches than in family broods. A higher survival of creche ducklings during the post-fledging period may on balance offset the higher mortality associated with creching.
10.2307/3676503|We expand the best-of-n model for mate choice by including cost of searching and cost of courtship. Computer simulations show that increasing costs strongly reduce the optimal number of males to be sampled. If the female is already familiar with a male, this would also reduce the number of males sampled and bias the choice in favour of this particular male. In a field test we removed 271 female Pied Flycatchers Ficedula hypoleuca soon after mating and released them 3-4 km away. The density of unmated males in the study area was high at any one time, and searching costs seemed to be low. If mate fidelity is caused by high searching costs we would expect a low degree of mate fidelity in this experiment. However, most returning females reunited with their previous mate, despite having failed in their first nesting attempt with him. Among those females that returned to the area, faithful females did not renest more quickly than unfaithful females, and females did not renest more quickly if they had been mated longer before removal. This indicates that the cost of courtship was low and could not explain the observed mate fidelity. Instead, we suggest that the mate fidelity was due to competition between females for a mate, or to the fact that the mates of faithful females were of higher than average quality.
27669760|The incidence and type of foot/leg damage in Leach's Storm-Petrels Oceanodroma leucorhoa was studied at four breeding colonies in northeastern North America. Several hypotheses have been offered to explain such occurrences: fish attacks on feeding petrels, attacks by gulls and puffins, epizootic disease (puffinosis), and injuries related to digging nest burrows. Our findings do not support the avian attack, disease or digging hypotheses as being the main or sole source of damage. A latitudinal increase in the incidence of damage and partial foot damage suggests that predatory fish and intraspecific interactions may be important causes of injuries. Further study is recommended.
10.2307/3676697|The northernmost limits of the distributions of Anhingas and Double-crested Cormorants in the month of December for the years 1977-1981 were examined. Physiological and ecological explanations for the zoogeography of these species were sought through energy budgets constructed from time budget, energetic (rates of metabolism), and climatological data. Anhingas are geographically restricted by physical factors related to their energetics, such as mean monthly temperature and the availability of insolation. Double-crested Cormorants appear not to be limited by energetic consequences, but by another ecological factor such as the availability of open water.
10.2307/3676755|Subfossil feathers are rarely recorded though they have a high preservation potential in peat deposits. In the lower part of a moss peat deposit from North Greenland a very well preserved feather was found and identified as originating from a Lapland Bunting on the basis of the structure of the downy barbules and on its pigmentation pattern. The age of the feather is 6000 to 8000 yr; it represents the oldest known bird from Greenland.
10.2307/3676459|Models of optimal diet generally include two cost functions of importance for the forager's decision of which prey items to accept or reject; (1) the cost of searching for prey, and (2) the cost of handling, the latter influencing the net energy value of particular prey types. We consider that changes in these two cost functions have opposite effects on the optimal diet. Increase in search cost leads to a broadening of the diet, whereas an increase in handling cost leads to a more selective diet. This theory was tested in a field experiment with female Pied Flycatchers Ficedula hypoleuca feeding nestlings. Flight cost was experimentally increased by removing certain wing and tail feathers. This "handicap" was assumed to increase handling cost more than search cost. It was predicted that the diet of handicapped birds would be more restricted than that of controls, and this was found in one of two study years.
10.2307/3676188|Size variables in Puffins Fratercula arctica (family Alcidae) from two Icelandic colonies, one in the North and one in the South, were examined. In general, male Puffins were larger than females. A marked size difference was shown between Puffins from the two colonies, birds from North Iceland being larger. A comparison of size was made between Faeroese Puffins (subspecies grabae) and Puffins from South Iceland (subspecies arctica). Differences between birds from these two populations were smaller than those found between Puffins from South and North Iceland. This contradicts the conventional thinking that all Icelandic Puffins belong to the same subspecies. Some discussion is devoted to nomenclature difficulties in Fratercula arctica. For the first time bill features have been proved to be indicative of age in Puffins. Descriptions are given of Puffins of the ages 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 years and older, from the South Iceland colony.
10.2307/3676334|Hunting by Aegolius funereus (L.) was studied by direct observation, and various phases of the prey capture were photographed. The owls hunted in forest land and frequented dense parts of the forest where they flew skilfully. They searched for prey from low perches, mean height 1.7 m, and waited a short time at each perch, mean 1 4/5 min. Mean distance between perches was ca. 17 m. Strikes occurred from close range, ca. 4.5 m. The owl's eyes were closed for protection just before impact. At impact the talons of both feet combined covered an area approximately 4 by 6 1/2 cm. The prey was usually killed by bites in the head or back of the neck. Due to its choice of low perches and strike from close range, the owl can make good use of auditory clues.
10.2307/3676103|The number of presumably breeding bird species was determined for 31 lakes around Stockholm, Sweden. Species richness (S) was strongly correlated with lake size (A) but only weakly so with habitat diversity. Using stepwise regression it was found that 54-56% of the variation in bird species richness could be explained by size of area alone, and this percentage could be increased to 61-66% by adding a second variable describing habitat diversity. The effect of area as described by the equation <tex-math>$({\rm S}+1)={\rm CA}^{3}$</tex-math> yielded a z value of approximately .34, which is within the range of values observed for land and freshwater birds on oceanic islands, but considerably higher than values for land birds on continents.
10.2307/3676821|Foraging niche (feeding site, method and depth) shifts in multispecies feeding groups of dabbling ducks were studied to determine whether interspecific interactions modify foraging of the species. Feeding methods and feeding depths of each member of pairs of species were compared in situations when the species were foraging separately and together in the same water area, without other species present. A divergent niche shift was observed in four of the twelve species pairs studied. Among these four pairs both symmetrical (avoidance in both of the species) and asymmetrical (avoidance in only one of the species) niche shifts occurred. Greater numbers and larger body size of one of the species were possible reasons for the observed asymmetries. A convergent niche shift was observed in seven species pairs. In four, both species shifted their niche toward that of the other, while in the remaining three pairs only one of the species did so. In asymmetrical convergent niche shifts the species that was most numerous and exhibited the most stable foraging pattern apparently was the imitated one. Patterns of niche shifts suggest that both harmful and beneficial interspecific interactions may be important in modifying the foraging niches of dabbling ducks in multispecies feeding groups; beneficial interactions (i.e. facilitation in food-finding by copying the foraging of individuals belonging to another species) were more common than harmful interactions in the feeding groups studied.
10.2307/3676910|Food intake (FI), body weight (BW), molt and reproductive activity were recorded in captive Svalbard Ptarmigan exposed to three different light regimes. (1) When daylength was kept continuous from summer onwards, autumnal molt and changes in BW and FI developed as normal but the late-autumn white plumage, high BW, low FI and gonadal quiescence were maintained. (2) When daylength was abrubtly made continuous in mid-winter, one complete cycle of molt, BW and FI ensued before the birds became "trapped" in the late-autumn condition whereas no apparent gonadal activation followed the photostimulation. (3) Permanent exposure to short days from mid-winter onwards maintained low BW and FI, white plumage and absence of gonadal activity. It is suggested that the vernal increase in daylength triggers endogenously interrelated events, such as the annual cycles in BW, FI and plumage. However, exposure to short days appears to be necessary for BW to decline in winter and for long days to induce new cycles. The seasonal changes in BW and FI appear to be accelerated by the prevailing daylength in spring and autumn.
10.2307/3676632|A modified version of Clark and Wilson's (1981) avian hatching asynchrony model (the "nest failure" model) is described. The relevant survival rates in the model, those prior to the start of incubation ( P<sub>0</sub>) and after the first young fledge ( P<sub>3</sub>), are rarely available. When applied to the model, survival rates of Snow Bunting nests gave accurate predictions of observed asynchrony. Although the survival data used to make these predictions are inadequate to warrant firm conclusions, the results suggest that the nest failure model merits consideration as a mechanism for determining optimum asynchrony.
10.2307/3676196|This paper compares the productivity, population dynamics and behaviour of Shelducks breeding in colonial and dispersed situations in the Firth of Forth, S.E. Scotland. Most pairs defend feeding sites from late winter onwards. A main function of territories is to provide a relatively undisturbed feeding area for incubating ducks. Territorial behaviour appears to exclude some birds from the breeding population but, in colonies, does not impose an unvarying limit to population size, as territory size and degree of overlap are not fixed rigidly. In colonies, 0.04 to 0.32 young were fledged per year per territorial adult, compared with 0.72 to 1.22 in dispersed situations. The main source of the difference between breeding output from colonial and isolated sites was the higher (6) duckling survival at isolated sites, associated with earlier fledging and lack of creching. Losses at colonies were due chiefly to predation by Herring Gulls whilst parents with broods were fighting with other Shelducks; this did not occur, or was rare, at isolated sites. The population at the Aberlady Bay colony was self-supporting in, at most, one year since 1967, and was subject to large scale immigration, but isolated sites probably had surplus production. We argue that breeding behaviour is adapted to dispersed breeding, and cannot adapt to the aggregations because these are not normally self-supporting and so lack genetic isolation.
10.2307/3675994|A marked population of Hen Harriers in which polygyny was widespread was studied on West Mainland, Orkney from 1975-1981. Yearling males were usually monogamous, but a male's harem size tended to increase as he aged. This trend was temporarily halted or reversed for most males in a cold, late spring. As harem size increased, the distance between nests decreased. Individual females tended to lay the same size clutch from year to year, and those which laid most eggs reared most young. Successful harem females reared on average as many young as successful monogamists, but as harem size increased, progressively less females reared young. In bigamous groups, females which laid first appeared to be the most favoured by the male and were the most likely to rear young. The only clear advantage of polygyny for females in Orkney was the opportunity to breed in a population where there was a shortage of males. Polygynous males, however, were more likely to rear young than monogamous males, and, to a lesser extent, they tended to rear more young. Fifty-nine per cent of males and 66% of females moved less than 5 km from their natal site to their first breeding site in Orkney, but there were only four examples of related birds in polygynous groups.
10.2307/3676116|The sex ratio of the Dippers was calculated from 910 ringed birds during ten winter seasons and the age ratio from 805 birds during eight seasons. The sample consisted of Dippers wintering in a study area in south-eastern Sweden as well as of birds migrating through this area in autumn and spring. A significantly smaller number of male than female Dippers wintered in and/or migrated through the study area. This difference between sexes was caused by the low number of first-year males appearing in the area.
10.2307/3676808|Wintering populations of Siskins Carduelis spinus have been found to contain both resident and transient individuals. Transients are attracted to the calls given by feeding residents; in this way residents obtain the anti-predator advantages of a larger feeding flock. Residents have been suggested to be dominant over transients, so avoiding the costs of increased competition. If this is the case, two alternative situations can be envisaged: (1) most of the observed aggression involves residents attempting to exclude transients from feeding patches; (2) most of the aggression is between transients, since dominants are able to ensure undisputed access to food due to their higher status. In order to examine these two hypothesis, we studied agonistic interactions between transient and resident wintering Siskins at a bird table during an invasion year. Residents were dominant over transients. For intra-male interactions, it was found that transients interacted with other transients more often than expected by chance, and residents with other residents less than expected. This relationship was not found for females. The results suggest that residents are able to obtain preferential access to resources, while transients face the greatest competition with each other.
10.2307/3676630|The breeding biology of Svalbard Rock Ptarmigan was studied by recording moult, body weight, egg laying dates, clutch size, hatching success, brood behaviour and chick growth in 1981 and 1982. Adult hens were heavier and moulted and laid eggs earlier than first year hens. Hens in good condition laid eggs earlier and produced larger clutches with higher hatching success than hens in poor condition. The body weight of hens decreased about 130 g during incubation. Hens with chicks lost weight during the first weeks after hatching, whereas hens without chicks gained weight. The physical condition of hens prior to breeding seemed to be the most important factor in determining chick production.
10.2307/3676601|Data on Black Grouse Tetrao tetrix breeding success are presented for 1989, a good chick rearing year when 40% of chicks survived to ten weeks, and compared with 1990, a poor year when only 28% of chicks survived. This resulted in a mean of 2.7 juveniles per hen in 1989. In 1990, although mean brood size in July/August was similar to 1989, fewer hens had broods resulting in only 1.7 juveniles per hen. In 1989, estimates of breeding success from juvenile:adult ratios in shooting bags were only 4% less than estimates using dogs. In 1989, breeding success was the same on areas with and without predator control. In 1990, the proportion of hens without broods more than trebled on areas without predator control, resulting in three times fewer juveniles per hen than on areas with predator control. A cock biased sex ratio of 1.6:1 was found in juveniles. Breeding success was higher than in most other British studies due to higher chick survival. Factors determining between-year differences in breeding success and their relevance to long-term declines in Britain are discussed.
10.2307/3676220|Two radar stations and five field observers recorded bird migration in S Sweden during autumn 1971. Large echoes chiefly comprised Columba palumbus flocks. A new pattern of anseriform migration across Skne from E to W was discovered. Echoes, presumably reflecting Fringilla coelebs migration, showed little correlation in time and space with visible migration of the same species. High-flying passerines did not compensate for cross-winds and were unaffected by leading lines, whilst low-flying passerines compensated for crosswinds and were strongly affected by leading lines. The vast majority of all echoes recorded during the whole period passed in a few days with following winds. Visible migration was most intense under head-wind conditions. Reversed movements occurred regularly.
10.2307/3676693|Family flocks of Marsh Tits Parus palustris in southern Sweden kept together until 11-15 d after fledging and stayed within the former territory of the parents. Mortality in the family flocks was low in one year (1.2-3.6%) but higher in another (18.6%). This level of mortality is compared with post-dispersal mortality in other species of tits. The occurrence of a parent-offspring conflict with regard to when juveniles should disperse is called in question. The level of aggression from parents towards their young was very low. Experimental broods of increased and reduced size stayed equally long within the parental territory, thus refuting the hypothesis that parents force their young to emigrate to avoid local competition for food or the harassment from the begging young. Dispersal of young from a family flock took place over more than one day. Late dispersers were significantly smalller than their nestmates. This supports the hypothesis that dominant individuals disperse first, while subdominants stay longer in the safety of the parental territory to increase their self-feeding ability, because they may expect worse conditions than dominants after dispersal.
10.2307/3676560|We studied the breeding of Guillemots in five areas on the Isle of May for five years. Chicks which hatched early had significantly longer fledging periods than late chicks. This trend was related to the timing of breeding in the colony in general and not to the relative timing of areas. Within each year there was a significant decline in breeding success due mainly to a decrease in hatching success but partly to a decline in chick success later in the season. The main factor influencing the chances of succesful breeding was the date the egg was laid relative to the laying dates of pairs in the surrounding area. Pairs in areas where breeding was late did, on average, as well as those in early areas. Neither predation nor deterioration of feeding conditions was considered a likely cause of the decline in hatching success although the actual reason remained undetermined. The chances of a pair replacing a lost egg was also related to the relative laying date. The time a lost egg had been incubated had no effect on the chances of it being replaced. To maximize its lifetime reproductive success a Guillemot should select the area in which it can breed earliest.
10.2307/3676219|The Danish population of the White Stork has decreased from 222 pairs to 54 pairs over the period 1952-71. A strong correlation was found in the production of young in the same nests during consecutive years. Northern Jutland, where the decline has been strongest after the population reached a certain minimum level, has the highest production of young per pair. This is believed to be caused by a skewed age distribution, with a higher proportion of old, experienced, and more efficient breeding pairs in the north. The decline in the northern population is thus explained by low recruitment of new breeding pairs and not in terms of the general production of young. It may be calculated that the White Stork will disappear as a breeding bird in Denmark about the year 2000.
10.2307/3676679|Chaffinch males were studied in 1990 in a conifer-dominated forest in southern Finland. Territorial behaviour, mate guarding and interactions between mates in relation to breeding stage were recorded by observation and radio-tracking. During the pre-incubation period (the female's fertile period) males apparently guarded their mates; they spent most of their time with the female and followed her closely during the flights that she initiated. When incubation had started, males significantly increased the number of extra-territorial trips. These were directed mainly at other males' singing territories, but not selectively at territories in the pre-incubation stage, as would have been expected if the males actively searched extra-pair copulations (EPCs) from fertile females. The explanation might be that EPC-seeking, foraging and information-gathering trips could not be separated in the data. The Chaffinch males may have pursued a mixed reproductive strategy even though EPCs were not observed and the pattern of extra-territorial trips was somewhat equivocal. A high rate of nest predation caused breeding asynchrony in the local Chaffinch population, and because of frequent renesting attempts, fertile females were available throughout the breeding season. Thus, males had the opportunity to pursue a mixed reproductive strategy during a large part of the breeding season. The singing frequency, strophes min<sup>-1</sup>, was lowest during pre-incubation, indicating that territory defence is of minor importance during this breeding stage.
10.2307/3676014|The Marsh Tit Parus palustris and the Willow Tit P. montanus are very similar in plumage and size. In Scandinavia the former species is found in rich deciduous woodlands whereas the latter occurs in boreal forests with conifers. This distinct habitat separation may be due to interspecific competition preventing habitat expansion or the species are for other reasons so closely adapted to their respective habitats that they cannot inhabit each other's habitats. In laboratory we examined the foraging efficiency of individuals of both species in spruce and oak "habitats". Only Marsh Tits showed a significant preference for their own habitat. Willow Tits were more efficient in finding food than Marsh Tits in both spruce and oak, and the foraging success of Marsh Tits on average was only three quarters of that of Willow Tits. The presence of the other species did not affect the relative food finding rate. Marsh and Willow Tits searched for food in almost the same frequencies at different tree parts, Willow Tits being slightly more generalized. No significant difference in dominance was found between the two species. The experiments gave no indications that Marsh and Willow Tits would possess highly specific adaptations to exploit only their respective habitats. It is therefore likely that interspecific competition in ecological time restricts the habitat selection of the species, especially of the Willow Tit.
10.2307/3676698|Overwintering Laspeyresia pomonella (L.) larval population changes were estimated in an experimental orchard in central Ohio. Spring populations were about 10% as high as autumn populations and most of the mortality was due to predation by birds. Birds were particularly attracted to trees with high L. pomonella larval populations. The significance of these results is discussed.
10.2307/3676627|We examined four correlates of hunting mode, dichotomized as active search (AS) and sit-and-wait (SW), in five assemblages of sympatric hawks and owls. Examining twenty-four hawk and ten owl species we found that: (1) Linearized wing loadings are light for kites, harriers, and eagles (which are primarily AS), and heavy for buteonines, falcons, and accipiters (which are mixed-mode hunters using both AS and SW techniques). Primarily AS-owls (mainly strigines and tytonines) have light linearized wing loadings, whereas SW-owls (mainly bubonines) are more heavily loaded. AS-hawks do not differ significantly from AS-owls, nor do SW-hawks from SW-owls; (2) Among hawks, diet breadth increases from accipiters through harriers, to falcons, eagles, buteonines, and to kites; and among owls, from strigines through bubonines to tytonines. No significant differences in diet breadth are detected between AS and SW hawks (or owls), nor between single-mode and mixed-mode hawks (or owls); (3) Among hawks, the ratio prey mass/body mass (PM/BM) increases from harriers through falcons to buteonines, accipiters, eagles, and to kites, and from tytonines through strigines to bubonines, among owls. No significant differences in the ratios PM/BM are found between AS and SW hawks (or owls); (4) Energetic costs incurred per prey capture are greater with the AS than with the SW mode in three out of four cases analyzed, but information on energetic gains are available for only one. Here, AS rendered a larger difference between benefit and cost than did SW; in the other three cases that differential was not known, but several advantages associated to AS were claimed to offset its high energetic cost. Our main conclusions are: (1) Calculation of linearized wing loading of a hawk (or owl) enables prediction of its main hunting mode; (2) Although use of AS or SW techniques (singly or in combination) seems not to constrain access of raptors to prey resources (in terms of diversity and size), further studies focusing on single subfamilies are likely to detect differences in prey use by raptors using different techniques; (3) Little can be predicted about the extent of hunting modes used by different raptors, until the associated energetic gains are evaluated.
10.2307/3676519|We investigated the relationship between body mass (i.e., wet mass) at nest-leaving and lipid content in 372 European Starling Sturnus vulgaris chicks in New Zealand to test the hypothesis that heavier chicks have greater lipid stores than lighter chicks, thereby enhancing their chances of surviving stressful periods after leaving the nest. Mass at nest-leaving ranged from 63 to 92 g. Total lipid content varied from 1.8 to 10.2 g, and increased as chick body mass increased up to 80 g, after which it leveled off. The lipid index (g lipid/g lean dry mass) varied from 0.106 to 0.470. The daily energy expenditures of fledglings of different masses were calculated to estimate the maximum number of hours that they could be sustained by their lipid stores after leaving the nest. Although the estimated fasting capability of the lightest chicks is only seven hours, most chicks (92%) had similar capacities of 15 to 20 h. This similarity in estimated fasting capability of most chicks is inconsistent with the hypothesis and may result from a compromise between the risks associated with carrying large lipid stores and the likelihood of encountering poor feeding conditions shortly after leaving the nest.
10.2307/3676307|Wild Red Grouse Lagopus lagopus scoticus lay clutches of similar size whether or not some eggs are removed from their nests whilst they are laying. Hence they regulate clutch size without using the egg-'numerostat' mechanism proposed by Steen and Parker (1981).
10.2307/3676651|Investigations of the hormonal control of avian territorial aggression have focused on temperate zone species where typically only males sing and defend territories in the breeding season, and have implicated testosterone in the control of these behaviors. However, most avian species are tropical and in many such species both sexes sing and defend year-round territories. We have examined the mechanisms underlying territoriality in the White-browed Sparrow Weaver Plocepasser mahali, in Zambia, and the Bay Wren Thryothorus nigricapillus, in Panama. In both species, we found low circulating levels of steroid hormones and no evidence for the regulation of territorial aggression by testosterone even in the breeding season. However, there were preliminary indications of a role for luteinizing hormone in maintaining territorial aggression. Thus, in contrast to temperate zone species, territorial aggression in these two tropical species is either independent of control by steroid hormones or is mediated by a non-gonadal hormone. These results, and the few data from other tropical species, suggest that the general assumption that androgens maintain territorial aggression may apply only to temperate species.
10.2307/3676347|Wind is of foremost importance to affect migrating birds' optimal flying speed and altitude, and their optimal migratory routes. This paper contains two main sections, wherein (1) the selective influence of wind on the compensatory behaviour of migrating birds is evaluated, and (2) a first attempt is made to examine the complex interplay between different selection factors governing the relationship between winds and bird migratory activity. Wind conditions determine the advantages and disadvantages of wind compensation and drift, respectively, in migrating birds. Complete compensation for wind drift is the optimal behaviour under constant winds, but with varying winds the optimal behaviour is partial and flexible compensation, i.e. the migrants should allow extensive drift far away from the goal and gradually compensate to a higher and higher degree on approaching the goal, finally compensating completely during the last flight to the goal. Different species of migrating birds are expected to be selective of favourable winds for their migratory flights to different degrees. The relationship between costs for fuel transportation and benefit by being highly selective of winds will determine optimal wind selectivity and fuel ratio in migrating birds. Optimal wind selectivity will be expected to be high with, i.a., widely chinging winds along the migratory route, a short distance and long duration of migration, and long durations of migratory flights. It is furthermore expected to be higher in adult than in juvenile birds, and in migrants recently having experienced successful flights as compared to migrants being delayed.
10.2307/3676590|The structure of heavily utilized core winter habitats of Capercaillie Tetrao urogallus was analysed at Varaldskogen, Norway. Comparisons were made between core winter habitats, the surrounding forest, and randomly selected sites. Both sexes avoided forests with overstorey densities below <tex-math>$500\ \text{trees}\ {\rm ha}^{-1}$</tex-math> (40% canopy closure), always had pines in their habitat, and selected sites where the surrounding forest was relatively more open. Unlike hens, cocks avoided forest with densities exceeding <tex-math>$1000\ \text{trees}\ {\rm ha}^{-1}$</tex-math> (70-80% canopy closure) and preferred forest with spruce trees which provided cover when the birds roosted on the ground. In dense pine plantations, a preference for areas adjacent to small clearings was found. The differences in habitat selection between cocks and hens were probably due to difference in size and social behaviour. Management implications are discussed.
10.2307/3676828|The mechanics and energetics of tail-supported clinging and climbing by Certhia familiaris on vertical trunks were analysed from still photographs and cine films. A complete movement cycle, or stride, consists of the power stroke and a floating phase. One stride analyzed in detail was 66 mm long and took 0.1375 s. The bird moved about half the stride length in the power stroke which took about 0.0625 s. In the beginning of a stride the bird accelerates with <tex-math>$20\ {\rm m}\ {\rm s}^{-2}$</tex-math> ( 2 g), and the feet exert a force on the trunk about 3.2 times the bird weight Mg. Its maximum velocity is about 1 m s<sup>-1</sup> vertically upwards and <tex-math>$0.24\ {\rm m}\ {\rm s}^{-1}$</tex-math> horizontally towards the trunk. The energy cost of one stride is 0.028 J, and 84% of this is for moving vertically upwards, while the rest goes to moving horizontally (6%), moving the legs (5.6%), and rotating the body and head (4.4%). The metabolic power due to work done in a stride is 0.2 W, which is 0.91 the basal metabolic power BMP. During foraging the bird climbs 0.1 m s<sup>-1</sup>, and has a stride frequency of 1.5 s<sup>-1</sup>, and a power output for locomotion of 0.043 W, or 0.19 BMP. The strong claw curvature, long hind-claw, and graded length of fore-toes are adaptations to climbing. Factors are considered which affect optimal tail length in tail-supported trunk-climbing birds. Certhia has a longer tail in relation to body size than have woodpeckers, a difference related to differences in locomotor habits.
10.2307/3676026|The food habits of the Herring Gull in a Swedish lake were studied by pellet analysis. Fish was the principal food item, Roach, Perch and Pike being the most common species. Waste grain, refuse and earthworms were found to be the most important food groups of terrestrial origin, while insects were eaten frequently, but always in small quantities. There was a marked seasonal variation in diet, which may reasonably be attributed to the varying availability of waste grain. The occasional mammals and birds recorded may have been killed or taken as carrion. The impact of Herring Gull on other species of birds was also studied by analysing their long-term population changes and their production of fledgelings. No measurable influence of predation was found.
10.2307/3676331|The Purple Sandpiper was studied in West Spitsbergen in 1967. The majority of sandpipers were in pairs on 23 June, when the coastal tundra was still snowcovered. This prevented the pairs from spacing out. Territorial behaviour was observed in the last week of June. The first eggs were laid about 24 June. Wing-lifting was the most frequently recorded posture. Vocalization was complex. The flight song was often performed at a great altitude. The territories were well spaced out and boundary conflicts rare. Courtship display involved ground and flight chases with frequent wing-lifting. Copulatory behaviour involved wing-lifting, hovering, and a slightly forward posture with cocked tail. Also in the brooding phase wing-lifting occurred frequently. Only the male attended the young.
10.2307/3676849|Changes in density of old Capercaillie between winters t and t+1 were related to the proportion of young birds in the population in winter t. These changes could be predicted from previously calculated rates of loss. It was inferred that the main factor affecting densities of old birds in winter t+1 was the proportion of young ones recruited into the population in winter t. This proportion, however, bore no relation to breeding success in summer t. It seemed that varying rates of loss of young birds between summer and winter were important in determining densities, might involve much emigration, and are poorly understood.
10.2307/3676462|During a population study of Lapwings Vanellus vanellus no evidence was found for any direct density dependent effects on hatching or fledging success. However, the temporal and spatial settlement patterns of the adults and differences between areas in breeding success conformed to the ideal despotic model, suggesting that territoriality may have a density dependent effect through the exclusion of settlers into sub-optimal habitats where their breeding success is low.
10.2307/3676282|Growth and development of thermal regulation of chicks of the two murre species Uria aalge inornata and U. lomvia arra occurring sympatrically on St. Lawrence Island, Alaska, were not significantly different. Homeothermy was achieved at 9-10 days of age. Similarly, metabolic rates of adults at thermal neutrality and at ambient temperatures to -50C did not differ between the two species. Murres are extremely resistant to hypothermia over long periods in the cold despite poor insulation and because of a high metabolic capacity.
10.2307/3676348|Broods and creches of Eider ducklings were observed on the Ythan Estuary, Aberdeenshire, Scotland from 1972 through 1974. Females sometimes brooded ducklings while roosting until two weeks of age; frequency of brooding decreased with age, and was higher in bad weather (rain and wind) than good. Activity observations showed that time spent roosting did not change with weather, whereas more time was spent feeding in bad weather than good; it was concluded that the need for brooding does not conflict with feeding requirements in this species. Counts of the ducklings and females in 516 creches showed that all but 44 creches had enough females to brood all the ducklings, and that only 4.7% of ducklings were potentially exposed to chilling. It was concluded that inadequacy of brooding due to the creche system was a minor mortality factor on the Ythan Estuary.
10.2307/3676668|Domestic hens become sexually mature between 18 and 26 weeks of age, soon after reaching adult body size. The precise age of sexual maturity depends on the lighting patterns during rearing. During the prolonged period of juvenile development, the components of the hypothalamic-pituitary gland-gonadal axis (HPGA) are functional. Long daylengths exert both stimulatory and inhibitory effects on the juvenile HPGA. As early as 3 weeks of age, transfer of chickens from short to long days stimulates LH release. Exposure of newly hatched chickens to long days for several weeks and subsequent transfer to short days, delays the onset of sexual maturation. This long day-induced inhibitory input to the HPGA is a form of juvenile photorefractoriness evolved in the ancestors of domestic chickens to prevent young breeding in the year in which they are hatched. Juvenile photorefractoriness may be related to high steroid 5 reductase activity in neuroendocrine tissues and could depend upon thyroid hormones and neural pathways from extra-hypothalamic sites.
10.2307/3676010|Song activity, length of song period and nesting success were studied in the promiscuous Corn Bunting Miliaria calandra in order to evaluate the significance of song. The quality of territories was assessed through duration of territory occupation and the habitat composition of territories. The Corn Bunting starts territorial behaviour in high quality territores in winter. The large size dimorphism is suggested as a result of social dominance in winter flocks. Early occupation of territories may be a necessary cost in order to obtain the best territory. Territories were aggregated and high quality territories were situated in distribution centres near each other. These territories were small, and still they probably held a large amount of resources. The song activity of the males is suggested to function as a means of female attraction. Annual and diel song activity was high. Many females were recorded in territories belonging to males with a high song activity, and the breeding success of females nesting in these territories was high. Successful males continued to sing late in the breeding season allowing attraction of renesting females and evaluation of breeding success of males by females. Males only invest in territorial behaviour and copulations whereas the breeding activities are performed nearly exclusively by the female.
10.2307/3676265|Kittiwake egg temperatures increase gradually but are irregular until 3 or 4 d after clutch completion. They then remain constant until hatching and average 38.9C at the egg shell/brood patch interface, ca. 38C under the egg shell at the top of the egg and 36.4C in the centre of the egg. Egg temperatures remained independent of ambient air temperatures. Temperatures on the nest surface varied between ca. 24C and 31C and increased slightly during periods of intense sunshine. When adults left their nests for a few minutes egg temperatures fell rapidly, but returned to normal equally rapidly when the adults resettled. Four clutches were artificially increased by addition of one or two eggs. Although egg temperatures varied considerably between these nests, the embryos developed normally in at least two of them.
10.2307/3676445|Some insectivorous birds wintering in an open Mediterranean habitat show following behaviour. Only typical gleaner species, such as the Dartford Warbler Sylvia undata, behaved as followers, whereas sit-and-wait species, such as the Stonechat Saxicola torquata, were followed. Both single individuals and homo- or heterospecific flocks acted as followers. The composition of the following flock was highly dynamic, both with respect to number of species and individuals. The result was ephemeral groups consisting of one host and one or more follower individuals which usually broke up when the followed bird flew to a perch without being followed. We analysed the follower-followed relationships between the most interactive pair of species (Dartford Warbler and Stonechat). Following behaviour appeared to consist of two behavioural components: to follow the host when it changed foraging site and to glean prey close to it. When together with a Stonechat, the Dartford Warbler looked for prey mainly on the ground close to the former; when searching alone, it fed mainly in shrubs. The host may be a reliable and predictable indicator of optimum search areas, or the warbler may exploit its vigilance when looking for prey on the ground, or both. The proximity of a follower species altered the searching behaviour of the Stonechat and reduced its capture success by half. The Stonechat's antiparasite strategy mainly consisted of perch changes, to avoid interference. The ecological conditions favouring the development of this kind of following behaviour (habitat openness, cold temperatures, low prey availability, etc.) are discussed.
10.2307/3676131|Prolonged pre-laying periods of Golden Plovers Pluvialis apricaria on Hardangervidda, southern Norway, often coincide with a late thaw. High vulnerability to predation of nests situated on small snow-free patches could be an ultimate factor in timing the start of egg-laying in Golden Plovers, and in other shorebirds. This hypothesis was tested by exposing 2 series of artificial nests to predation under widely different snow conditions (mid May and mid June). Each series was exposed for 6 d, and comprised 20 nests with 2 eggs of Laughing Gull Larus ridibundus in each nest. The same nest scrapes were used in both instances. In May significantly more nests (15) were robbed than in June (8), p  0.02. Predators were mainly Ravens Corvus corax and Red Foxes Vulpes vulpes. It is speculated that presence of parent birds at the nests would have further increased the difference in predation between the early and late nest series.
10.2307/3676859|Stability patterns of a South Finnish bird community breeding in an area of 30 ha were studied on the basis of mapping censuses made in 1971-80. Fluctuations were characterized by the variation in the number of species (CV = 3.6), density of pairs (9.3), diversity (4.9), and evenness (4.6). The average annual species turnover was 9.0 and the average individual turnover 3.0%. These values are more typical of bird communities in Central than in Northern Europe. Long-term changes explained, on an average, 2525 (SD) % of the annual population fluctuations. The number of pairs decreased significantly but their biomass, energy consumption, and production remained rather stable during the study. Diversity and evenness increased significantly. Twenty-eight species showed no trend and 19 of them remained fairly stable but there were 15 species showing more or less increasing trends and 6 species (including most dominants of the community) showing declining trends. The passerines, especially the dense nest-box population of Pied Flycatchers Ficedula hypoleuca, dominated fluctuations of the community. While fluctuations of the non-passerines were somewhat compensatory, fluctuations of the passerines, as well as those of the entire community, were largely parallel. However, there were also compensating fluctuations that tended to balance parallel ones, resulting in relative stability. Compensatory fluctuations and density levels without trends suggest that numbers of birds were regulated by density-dependent factors, but parallel fluctuations and the occurrence of striking trends suggest that fluctuations were largely determined by density-independent factors.
10.2307/3676408|Asynchronous hatching within clutches is a pervasive phenomenon in altricial birds and the subject of considerable controversy. Intraspecific variation in the degree of hatching asynchrony is usually assumed to be the product of individual differences in parental incubation behaviour, yet few studies have reported on how variable such behaviour might be or the patterns of hatching within clutches. Wild American Kestrels in northern Saskatchewan started incubating their eggs prior to clutch completion, but the timing of the onset of incubation varied among pairs. There was considerable variation in the number of eggs to hatch per day within clutches. Many patterns of hatching could not be explained by conventional thinking about parental incubation behaviour, for the order in which eggs hatched was often not the order in which the eggs were laid. Small females were more likely to have such irregular hatching patterns and have hatching failures than large females, possibly because of problems in effectively covering all eggs during incubation.
10.2307/3676364|In a nest box colony of Jackdaws, we measured male and female parental investment to determine: (a) its importance for the production of fledged young; and (b) its cost as a constraint on annual reproductive potential. By observing parent roles, provisioning rates, chick growth rates and annual reproductive output we found that most of the variation in annual reproductive output was caused by nestling mortality rather than clutch size or hatching success. Provisioning by the male was continuously demanding of energy and time, from incubation to fledging, and was significantly correlated with nestling growth rate and fledgling survival. Nestling mortality was highest when the demands of provisioning on the male were greatest. Variance in nestling mortality increased between pairs in less productive years and exaggerated differences in parent quality. This evidence suggests that the ability of parents to exploit a variable food supply and provision their young sufficiently, is a key component of annual reproductive output in this species. We argue that provisioning costs might also constrain male Jackdaws to social monogamy by occupying time needed for the successful nurturing of two broods. Jackdaws maximise fledgling output through concerted investment by both parents into single annual broods. This system is comparable to that of other long-lived avian groups such as seabirds.
10.2307/3676483|The hypothesis that sheltered nesting in small altricial birds primarily is found in (1) resident birds (because of temporal priority) and (2) migrants with an exposed foraging behaviour (because of nest-predation risk), seems to be robust against Greenwood's detailed statistical treatment. The predicted pattern seems to hold also when repeating the analysis for the Swedish avifauna at the family level, and for the Canadian avifauna at both species and family levels.
10.2307/3676458|Egg temperature was recorded at 1-5 min intervals during the incubation period in 42 nests of 14 different species. Only the females incubated. The egg temperature therefore declined whenever a female left the nest for a period-off. Regardless of the ambient temperature, however, the females usually returned to their nests and continued incubating before the eggs had cooled down to the suggested 'physiological zero temperature' (25-27C). For 14 nests (6 species) in which egg temperature was measured at 1 min intervals, the mean minimum egg temperature (MET) during periods-off was 30.4C. The mean value for all 42 nests, with recording intervals varying from 1-5 min, was 31.2C. It is suggested that the incubation rhythm adopted is adaptive and evolutionary aspects of the high MET-values are tentatively discussed. During periods of especially low ambient temperature the female either holds the egg temperature at a normal level or temporarily stops incubating altogether. Any intermediate solution seems to be ruled out.
10.2307/3676430|We studied dispersal and seasonal movements of Great Bustards marked as young in Villaffila, NW Spain, between 1983 and 1990. This study documented male-biased dispersal in a sexually dimorphic, lekking species; one of the very few documented examples outside the Anatidae. Females nested outside the display area after visiting leks for mating. Males abandoned breeding activities after mating and dispersed during summer to moult. Young stayed with hens until a new breeding cycle was initiated in the next spring. Males dispersed significantly earlier and further from natal sites than females. Home ranges of males were significantly larger during their first two years of life than later, and those of females were significantly smaller than those of males. Average age of first lek attendance was 2.7 yr for males and 1.9 yr for females. Females attended leks closer to natal sites than males, and adult males attended the same leks year after year. Age of first successful breeding was 4-5 yr in females. These results support the hypothesis that sex-biased dispersal is determined by the different value of philopatry for the two sexes.
10.2307/3676648|Fall migratory restlessness (Zugunruhe) of caged first year Garden Warblers Sylvia borin is partly endogenously preprogrammed and it has been suggested that the pattern of Zugunruhe reflects a mechanism that determines the time course and possibly the distance of migration. The question arose of how migrating birds cope with interruptions induced by adverse weather conditions or the need to refuel. Here we have tested the hypothesis that birds compensate for interruptions by adding migratory activity to other nights. An experimental group of 13 Garden Warblers was subjected to repeated schedules of food withdrawal and re-feeding. This treatment resulted in a significant increase in the number of nights without Zugunruhe as compared with the performance of 12 control birds that received food ad libitum. The overall amount of fall Zugunruhe of the experimental birds was reduced correspondingly suggesting that birds did not compensate. This conclusion is corroborated by the finding that those experimental birds in which the treatment induced most interruptions showed the smallest overall amount of Zugunruhe. The results suggest that if a migratory time program determines migratory distance in first year migrants, the wintering area may be relatively variable unless other factors determine its exact position.
10.2307/3676411|The choice of nest sites is an important component of breeding behaviour because it can influence reproductive success. We examined the effects of habitat quality on nest site selection by Common Goldeneyes Bucephala clangula in an acid-stressed area near Sudbury, Ontario. Females used fishless wetlands more often prior to incubation, and nested more frequently in nest boxes erected on these wetlands. Within fishless wetlands, female goldeneyes preferred boxes on wetlands that were more isolated from other waterbodies. We conclude that goldeneyes selected high quality, fishless wetlands because these habitats provide an abundant supply of invertebrate foods needed for reproduction.
10.2307/3676628|The study is based on nine series of forest bird successions at five localities in Europe. Succession rate was measured by dividing the dissimilarities between communities of consecutive stages by the time interval separating them. Turnover rates varied among the data sets, but most differences disappeared after the stages to be compared were selected so that the time intervals were of equal length. The vegetational status of the studied stages show, however, that the northern data include a larger spectrum of habitats than do the southern ones, which presumably increased their turnover rates compared with those in the south. A new measure, the relative rate of succession, is developed to get a better understanding of community change: the observed rate of succession per year is divided by the maximum rate of change possible for that time interval. Several sources of error affecting the turnover rate estimates are presented, the most important being stochastic changes in communities. Because the amount of pseudo-turnover is supposed to be relatively constant between two stages, the error per year is greater the shorter interval between them. The proportion of pseudo-turnover of total turnover rates was assessed with the aid of existing data on year-to-year variation in bird communities. On average this proportion amounted to 36%, without any geographical variation. The amount of pseudo-turnover per year increases from about 30% between the first two stages to about 50% between the last two stages of a forest succession. An 'ideal' programme for quantifying successional dynamics of forest bird communities is presented.
10.2307/3676230|Literature dealing with competition between the Great Tit and the Pied Flycatcher for nesting sites and food is reviewed, and some data from English and Finnish populations are re-analysed. A preference difference is shown to exist for nesting holes, but because there is a general lack of such places, the two species regularly compete for them. There is some overlap in hunting behaviour and in the food items brought to the young. The interspecific competition may influence breeding numbers and reproductive success, depending on the availability of holes, density of birds, habitat type, and the times of egg-laying. When the interval between the onset of breeding between the two species is short, the flycatcher is favoured.
10.2307/3676426|We studied home ranges and sociality of Red-breasted Nuthatches wintering in two central Ohio woodlots. Using data on social coherence and home range overlap we identified different groups of one to three individuals, including solitary males and females and one male-male pair. We found no evidence for territory defence. We suggest that the difference in winter social organization between this species and its sedentary congeners can be explained by the absence of long-term benefits of social behaviour.
10.2307/3676391|Diurnal and seasonal variations in numbers of nonbreeding Great Skuas Catharacta skua on Foula, Shetland, were monitored during the 1975, 1976, 1988 and 1989 breeding seasons. The accuracy and use of daytime and night-time counts are compared. All nonbreeders spend the night at clubs and most go to sea to feed in early morning. Hence, night-time counts represent total numbers of nonbreeders attending the colony, whilst daytime counts are more variable, although consistently time afternoon counts can provide useful diurnal and seasonal comparisons. The mean number of nonbreeders attending the colony between May and August was significantly less in 1988 (732 individuals) and 1989 (662 individuals) than in 1975 (approximately 1949 individuals). This decline in numbers of nonbreeders since the mid-1970's coincided with a decline in the breeding population over the same period, although nonbreeding numbers decreased much more (breeders by 8% from 1975 to 1989, nonbreeders by 57%). Numbers of nonbreeders at the colony correlated with seasonal changes in diet that appeared to indicate changes in food availability. A reduced afternoon attendance by nonbreeders in 1989 (40%), compared with 1976 (67%), reflected unusually poor Great Skua breeding seasons on Foula in 1988 and 1989. Numbers of nonbreeders attending a colony appear to be good indicators of environmental changes that could usefully be added to current seabird monitoring programmes.
10.2307/3675874|The Jamaican Blackbird Nesopsar nigerrimus (Osburn) is confined to the moist montane regions of Jamaica where it is found primarily above 515 m. It forages for animal food among bromeliads, clumps of dead leaves, moss-covered trunks and branches, and tree ferns. Nesopsar's feeding habit probably evolved on the island in the absence of species of Dendrocolaptidae and Furnariidae specialized for arboreal rummaging. Compared with other icterids, Nesopsar has shorter legs and more curved claws, which are advantageous in arboreal (trunk) foraging. Nesopsar has a proportionately longer and narrower bill than all the other icterids I examined, enabling it to probe more efficiently into crevices, cracks and epiphytes. The muscle for lowering the lower mandible, M. depressor mandibulae, and the muscle for elevating the upper mandible, M. protractor quadrati, are not ordinarily strong muscles in birds. Both of these muscles have become very strong in the icterids, in association with the gaping method of feeding. In Nesopsar, the gaping function aids in prying underneath loose bark, dead branches, accumulation of plant materials, and bromeliads.
10.2307/3676443|A population of Eurasian Golden Plover Pluvialis apricaria was studied in NE Scotland during a period of increase to peak numbers followed by a decline to extinction. The decline was not associated with loss of breeding or summer feeding habitats. Annual changes in numbers were not related to breeding success but were strongly correlated with winter losses (mortality and/or emigration) calculated from the return rate of ringed birds. Substantial decreases followed big winter losses associated with severe winters. Breeding success was exceptionally poor only in the latter stages of the decline and this may have prevented a population recovery. Poor breeding arose from severe nest predation by rising numbers of egg predators, which coincided with the afforestation of part of the area. Loss of wintering habitat due to agricultural changes may exacerbate the effect of severe winters and this is discussed as a possible cause of widespread decline.
10.2307/3675908|Results of Kittiwake Rissa tridactyla egg studies in SW and N Norway are combined and compared. The last egg of multi-egg clutches were smaller than the first egg(s) of their respective clutches. The first eggs of these clutches had longer incubation periods than their subsequent eggs. Egg volume and incubation period decreased as the breeding season progressed but no relationship was found between egg volume and incubation period. The shorter incubation period of the last eggs of a three egg clutch was due to a low incubation efficiency between the laying of the first and second eggs. This resulted in a synchronized development and hatching of the first two eggs. A sudden rise in incubation efficiency once the second egg was laid caused the third egg to hatch 2-3 d after the second egg. Eggs of replacement clutches were smaller than eggs of their respective first clutches. The chances of laying replacement clutches were independent of the adults' age. A geographical trend in egg size was apparent with larger eggs being laid in the colder, northern regions.
10.2307/3676556|Fecundity, survival, immigration and emigration in a recently established population of Barnacle Goose on Gotland, Sweden, are analysed using data from 1971 to 1985. During this period numbers increased from one to 450 breeding pairs. A simulation of population growth using a deterministic population growth model showed that immigration must have occurred during this period, probably mainly during the late 1970s and early 1980s. This net influx together with a high and stable reproductive success and a high annual survival rate resulted in exponential increase in numbers. Several fecundity parameters were higher in the Gotland population than in the Arctic populations of Barnacle Goose. This successful establishment in a temperate area more than 1,300 km south of and 2,000 km away form the species' usual breeding range, questions many explanations of Arctic distributions in geese, for example the hypothesis that a too low protein content in the food plants prevents breeding at lower latitudes.
10.2307/3676768|The song of Ficedula hypoleuca, F. albicollis, and their hybrids was described by seven song variables. The two species differed significantly in five of these, and were best discriminated by the faster song tempo of hypoleuca and the use of higher frequencies by albicollis. The song of some hybrids did not differ significantly from that of albicollis but differed in several parameters from that of hypoleuca. Also some hypoleuca males sang a song resembling that of albicollis. The occurrence of hybrids and hypoleuca males singing albicollis song is proposed to be a consequence of song learning from surrounding males in areas with high densities of albicollis.
10.2307/3676184|In actual take-off, attack, and retreat, short notes are often produced in many grouse species. The first portion of grouse songs appears to be but a repetition of a take-off sound. In most songs, however, a retreat sound derivate also seems to be present. Hence, just as in the case in many displays, a divalent origin is hinted at. A grouse song seems to be composed by attack-retreat units repeated several times, and with an increasing influence of the retreat component towards the end. Sounds are products of vocal organs and their accessories, which must have evolved phylogenetically in much the same way as have visual structures, and so have their motor patterns. Songs of grouse species have diverged by reduction or addition of the building units, by changes of frequency level associated with changes in vocal organs, and by changes along the time axis.
10.2307/3676148|According to Williams' (1966) hypothesis, young Rooks should expend less energy in reproduction, per offspring produced, than old Rooks. As a test of this hypothesis we investigated the time budgets of both males and females, of breeding pairs and the share of the female in feeding the nestlings. Finally, we recorded any observed differences in the breeding ecology of old and young Rooks. The results differed from the above mentioned theory. The parental effort of young birds is greater than that of older birds. During the incubation period, the young males fed their mates more frequently, and were absent from the nest for longer periods, than the older males. However, we were unable to detect any differences in the breeding behaviour of old and young females, although those females mated to young males begged for food more frequently than did the females mated to old males. The young females also laid smaller clutches than the older females and were less successful in hatching out their eggs. Similarly, the young males were less successful in rearing the nestlings than were the old males.
10.2307/3676514|Feather lining of birds' nests has often been assumed to be beneficial in terms of improved energy budgets of parents and offspring, although this hypothesis has never been tested experimentally. I manipulated the amount of feathers in Swallow Hirundo rustica nests during the incubation period by removing all feathers, doubling the number of feathers, or keeping the nest as a control. Incubation behaviour changed in relation to treatment: nest attendance increased with a reduction in the amount of feathers, the duration of the periods on the nest increased and that of recesses decreased. The cooling rate of eggs increased with reduced amounts of feathers, whereas warming rates decreased. However, egg temperature remained constant across treatments. The fitness effects of nest lining were studied by removing all feathers from some nests and keeping others as controls. This experiment significantly reduced the body mass of nestlings and prolonged the duration of the nestling period. However, reproductive success was not directly affected by the experiment since there was no effect on brood size at fledging. Feather nest lining thus may have a direct effect on some reproductive parameters in the Swallow and in many other species with feather lined nests.
10.2307/3676636|At least 8 out of 12 Swifts returned home on the following day when released in fine weather 405 km SSW of their breeding colony. For four, flight altitudes and flight times could be established; they had flown at between 1230 and 2750 m with an average speed of <tex-math>$40\ {\rm km}\ {\rm h}^{-1}$</tex-math>. 13 Swifts released in bad weather 478 km N of their breeding colony returned home much more slowly, although at least 12 eventually found their way back. This slow return was due either to the bad weather or the birds being released in an area they were unacquainted with, or both. Although Swifts fly high both at day and night, the highest altitudes are apparently reached by birds roosting in the air (max. 3600 m). House Martins released 30 and 80 km away from their breeding colony returned home flying at an altitude of 950-1100 m.
10.2307/3676229|In a Hooded Crow Corvus cornix population in Southern Sweden, nests were found to be weakly overdispersed. If they had a choice, the crows preferred conifers as nest trees. Nest height was determined by the branch structure, which differed between tree species. Presence of marshland (presumably containing much food) and social interactions were not found to affect nest dispersion to a significant extent.
10.2307/3676913|The role of male quality (age and dominance status) and quality of resources defended in mate choice by Black-billed Magpies Pica pica was studied in an outdoor aviary. Of two males, the dominant individual, irrespective of age, apparently defended an entire unit (composed of two elongate pens, one superior and the other inferior in terms of food availability, cover, and potential nest sites, with access to each via a common pen across the outer end of each). However, all females (16 of 24), that formed pairs within groups of three (one female and two males), chose adult males irrespective of their dominance status. When given a choice between an adult and a juvenile male (juveniles were dominant as often as adults), each housed in a separate pen of either superior or inferior quality, females chose adult males significantly more often than juvenile males, showing no preference for either superior or inferior pen. Age of a male, therefore, seemed to be more important in mate choice under captive conditions than its dominance status or the quality of the resources it defended. When choosing between two adult males, however, females appeared to base their choice on both male quality (dominance status) and pen quality. The dominant male in a superior pen was chosen significantly more often than the subordinate male in an inferior pen but neither male was preferred after they were switched between the pens of different quality. Dominant juvenile males were chosen more often than subordinate juvenile males irrespective of pen quality. The results suggest that, under captive conditions, both male quality and the quality of resources defended were involved in mate choice by female magpies but that male quality seemed to be relatively more important. There was also evidence that a familiar male was more likely to be chosen by a female than was an unfamiliar male.
10.2307/3675933|A study of individually colour ringed Robins was carried out over two non-breeding periods in an area of dense scrub. The numbers of Robins were not stable being lower in mid winter than in autumn or spring and dropping to zero in hard weather. An observer carrying out a winter census of all bird species as in a Winter Atlas project successfully located Robins on every visit that they were present on the site but always underestimated their numbers. On average the atlas worker's estimates were around half the number of Robins located by another observer intensively searching for colour marked birds but subject to considerable variation (8-92%). No single environmental factor adequately correlated with this variation which was found to be affected by wind, precipitation and the behaviour of the birds. Recommendations are made to improve census efficiency.
10.2307/3676528|Egg composition was examined in a semi-captive flock of Barnacle Geese Branta leucopsis in relation to egg size, laying sequence and to the age, size and aggressiveness of the male and female. The proportion of yolk in the eggs was within the normal range for precocial species, but the proportion of lipid (14%) was high even in comparison with other geese. The last egg was the smallest of the clutch, but the proportions of yolk and lipid were independent of egg size and laying sequence. Egg composition did not vary with the date of clutch initiation. There were no significant correlations between body weight and size, aggressiveness or breeding experience of either male or female and egg composition. Although there were no significant differences in weight and dimensions of egg from different sized clutches, there was a significant negative correlation between clutch size and the amount of yolk and of lipid. Eggs in repeat clutches were similar in size to those of the first clutch, but had lower proportions of both yolk and lipid. This indicated some compromising of the energetic commitment to individual eggs in relation to an environmental factor (in captivity need for re-laying to be rapid if it is to be successful, or change in food quality).
10.2307/3676165|Altogether 155 recoveries of ringed Scandinavian Barn Owls were obtained and analysed. In general the birds, particularly the first-year birds, remained within a relatively confined area, the majority of the recoveries being obtained less than 20 km from the site of release. The fledged birds dispersed in all directions, and sibling birds showed no tendency to keep company. Certain topographic features, especially large water bodies, restricted the dispersal of the birds. Movements between the mainlands and islands were therefore rare. On the basis of recoveries of dead animals it was established that mortality in Barn Owls was high during the first year. For birds not surviving until their second summer (75%), the average length of life was 4.5-5.3 months. The losses were greatest during November-February, when the commonest cause of death was lack of food associated with low temperature and snow cover.
10.2307/3676221|Radar films were obtained from a high power, 23 cm, MTI-equipped station at Romelesen, 21 Sept.-10 Oct. Fast, distinct echoes (probably ducks and/or waders) and slow, diffuse echoes (probably small passerines, mainly Erithacus rubecula) were differentiated. Distinct echoes (76% registered in 4 nights) travelled predominantly W-WSW with following winds, and diffuse echoes SE, probably displaced by W winds, and, in one night with following wind and half of total diffuse activity, SSW. Peaks of activity were recorded in early night and, for diffuse echoes only, also after midnight. Morning trapping results at Falsterbo did not correlate with the amount of echoes the previous night. This can probably be explained by the effect of local weather factors on the trapping figures.
10.2307/3676338|The Least Sandpiper was studied on Sable Island, Canada, in 1975 and 1976. Culmen length and egg measurements are greater there than in northern Manitoba. Egg dimensions vary greatly among females, and egg size varies slightly with female size. Egg size in initial and replacement clutches does not differ systematically. Egg length tends to increase slightly over the laying sequence. The significance of constant clutch size and low variation in egg size within clutches of shorebirds is discussed.
10.2307/3676862|Assumptions and predictions of previous hypotheses about reversed sexual size dimorphism, as found in owls and raptors, were tested by data pertaining to European owl species. Degree of dimorphism in wing length was found not to correlate with degree of dimorphism in weight. Degree of dimorphism in wing length correlates with percent birds in diet while dimorphism in mass correlates with breeding latitude. Given division of labour, I suggest selection acts on males to become efficient foragers (shorter wings) while on females for fasting endurance (larger mass). I advance a new hypothesis for sex dimorphism in terms of mass, namely that females are larger because larger bodies take longer to starve and can stand lower ambient temperatures without increasing heat production. This seems highly adaptive if breeding begins under harsh environmental conditions, if prey size is large and prey (delivered by males) is brought at long and unpredictable intervals. This hypothesis has the advantage over previous ones in that, given division of labour, it can explain why females are larger than males in owls and raptors rather than in other birds.
10.2307/3676202|For the Hooded Crow (N = 537), the ratio between body weight and bill height proved to be a better indicator of the amount of abdominal fat than either body weight alone, or the ratio of body weight to other size dimensions, e.g. wing, tail, tarsus, or bill lengths. The ratio of body weight to bill height, in particular, is to be recommended if either the age or sex, or both, of a bird are unknown, and the possible reason for this is discussed.
10.2307/3676837|Rodents and Snowy Owls varied synchronously in numbers during a 5-yr period that included two peaks in rodent density. The owls bred in three areas with many hillocks and boulders. More nests were on hillocks than boulders, and high places were used as perches. During the second rodent peak year, when snow reduced access to food and suitable nest sites, owl breeding density was lower and territories were larger. Fledgling production was not, however, significantly lower, perhaps indicating that the larger territory sizes to some extent may have compensated for a lower availability of rodents.
10.2307/3676076|Many birds build their nests in sheltered sites like tree-holes, tunnels, rock crevices, caves or buildings, etc., where the nest is more or less out of predators' reach. The safety provided by such sheltered nest-sites is counterbalanced by the limited supply of such sites and the relatively great competitive effort required for the acquisition and defence of them. Alternative tactics to reduce nest-predation are active nest-defence, effective mostly in large birds, and nest concealment/camouflage. We suggest that the habit of sheltered nesting is associated with two basic premises: temporal priority to sheltered nest-sites in resident birds, and extremely strong selection pressures towards safe nest-sites in birds with exposed feeding niches. The latter selection pressure is due to the great risk that birds foraging in an exposed manner will, by the feeding visits to their young, disclose their nest to predators. In temperate regions, many notorious nest predators, such as corvids, probably hunt by observing and following parent birds. This conjecture is supported by the findings that sheltered nesting is predominant (63-78%) among (1) residents and (2) migrants with an exposed foraging technique or habitat, i.e. aerial and sit-and-wait hunters and gleaners in the open. In contrast to this, sheltered nesting is rare among migrant gleaners that forage in cover, employed by only 2 (3%) out of 67 species. Predictions emanating from our conjecture include (1) a relatively early spring arrival of tropical migrants with sheltered nests in comparison with birds having open nests (p < 0.02), (2) a relatively high nest predation rate during the nestling stage compared with the incubation period among exposed foragers (p < 0.01), (3) species living in closed as well as open, e.g. urban, habitats make more frequent use of sheltered nest-sites in the latter environment, (4) strong effects of interspecific competition for sheltered nest-sites, sometimes resulting in breeding range contraction and habitat exclusion in subdominant species. The correlation between exposed foraging and sheltered nesting is probably obscured in the tropics, where a great proportion of the predators, mainly snakes and mammals, localize prey by their olfactory/auditory senses.
10.2307/3676294|According to Fisher's hypothesis, the parents of diploid species like birds can be expected to allocate one half of their reproductive effort to rearing progeny of either sex. The male Hooded Crow is larger than the female, and therefore, rearing a male offspring may involve a higher parental cost than rearing a female offspring. This could theoretically be reflected in the morphology of the juveniles, and in their sex ratio through differential mortality. A skewed sex ratio in favour of females was found for the juvenile and adult Hooded Crows at Trondheim, Norway. Analyses of various morphological characters also indicate that the parent crows have more difficulty in successfully rearing male than female offspring. Juvenile males possessed more 'feather marks', and their third primaries were more variable in length, than in the case of juvenile females. Juvenile males sampled in the autumn had shorter tarsi than adult males and their body weights were low. When the Hooded Crow data were subdivided into four age-sex groups, regression analyses showed that, during the autumn, the large-sized (long-winged) birds in each group were the ones which possessed the largest fat reserves. This correlation no longer held true during the winter, when juvenile females were the group with the largest fat reserves and the adult males had least of birds collected at a refuse tip. Moreover, the Norwegian Hooded Crows possessed less abdominal fat than did the British Carrion Crows with the exception of the juvenile females. This is in contrast to the usual tendency for birds living in northern, colder regions to lay down greater fat reserves in winter than their southern counterparts.
10.2307/3676269|The reliability of the method of aging pigeons using layered structure of bones was tested. The number of layers in endosteal zone of tibia from 19 pigeons of known age was assessed by 5 persons familiar with microscopic techniques. The age of birds was unknown to these persons as well as to the person choosing the sections. It was found that there was a considerable difference between assessment of the number of layers in the same section by different persons. The average from pooled assessments did not correspond to the age of bird.
10.2307/3676419|More than 2,000,000 pairs of burrow-nesting alcids breed along the Pacific coast of North America between 48 and 55 N latitude. Most occur in a few large colonies leaving >98% of coastal islands unoccupied. There is considerable local variation in climate and oceanographic conditions, but such variation is in part predictable since it is largely attributable to regional orographic conditions and stable seasonal weather patterns. Here we examine colony-site location in four burrow-nesting alcids, Ancient Murrelet Synthliboramphus antiquus, Cassin's Ptychoramphus aleuticus, and Rhinoceros Auklet Cerorhinca monocerata and Tufted Puffin Fratercula cirrhata, with respect to variation in climate and oceanographic conditions. Colonies are located on islands in colder, more saline water, and are subject to less intense rainfall than non-colony sites. Drier nesting sites offer several potential advantages including reduced burrow erosion, low risk of flooding, and easier maintenance of burrow microclimate. Cold, saline water is associated with increased food availability while freshwater runoff is associated with decreased marine productivity.
10.2307/3675901|Data for 70 Oystercatcher flocks suggest that density within the feeding flock is correlated closely with the density of second year cockles (Cerastoderma edule). None of the variables measured correlated significantly with density within the 83 Curlew flocks observed. It is suggested that the densities of Mya arenaria and Arenicola marina may exert a controlling influence on the spacing behaviour of feeding Curlews. The within-flock feeding density of Dunlins was most closely related to total prey density but, for a given prey density, was significantly lower on mud than on sand. Further data on Dunlin behaviour show that the feeding tactics adopted by this species on mud were different from that used on a sand substrate. Possible explanations for these differences are outlined.
10.2307/3676033|Roosting flight characteristics of Common Goldeneyes Bucephala clangula were correlated with ambient temperature, wind direction, feeding area location and date. More birds remained near the communal roost during days when colder temperatures prevailed and early in winter when feeding was common by a brewery discharge outlet. Roosting populations declined under colder daily temperatures, but increased during winter. Roosting sites were vacated temporarily by most birds in periods of extremely cold temperatures (<-25C). Daytime sex ratio counts were adult male biased throughout winter, indicating males returned to the roost site from feeding areas earlier in the day than did females. Adult males occasionally defended small individual foraging sites from intruding conspecifics of both sexes. Available data supports hypotheses that sexual segregation within habitats and between wintering areas is influenced by climatic effects interacting with several ecological factors: (1) body size-weight-metabolic relationships, (2) intersexual competition for food, and (3) sexual selection pressures.
10.2307/3675930|The diets of five species of waders were studied in a habitat containing only two abundant prey species. Interspecific differences in the size selection of prey did exist, and prey size was found to be positively correlated with body size, not with bill length, of the respective wader species. A study on individual birds feeding in captivity revealed that handling time increased with prey size, and that the increase was greater for smaller-sized than for larger-sized waders. Thus, the optimal prey size seems to be related to the body size for each wader species. The paper also deals with the relationship between food diversity and selectivity on the basis of a comparison made between the waders' diets and the availability of the different prey categories in the habitat.
10.2307/3675872|The young of the Goldcrest have a relatively low growth rate (K = 0.409) and a long nestling period (mean 19 d), very similar to the pattern of development found in hole-nesting species. It is suggested that this strategy reduces the daily energy expenditure of the parents, thus enabling them to rear two, relatively large, broods each year.
10.2307/3676660|A sensitive and specific nuclear steroid receptor assay was developed by the stabilization (using sodium molybdenate) and solubilization (using sodium thyocyanate) of receptors, which made it possible to simultaneously measure specific progestin (<tex-math>${\rm R}_{5020}$</tex-math>), androgen (<tex-math>${\rm R}_{1881}$</tex-math>) and oestrogen ( E<sub>2</sub>) binding sites individually, in feather follicles from secondary remiges and rectrices of domestic geese. Saturation analyses and Scatchard plots showed that each binding site represents a unique type of nuclear receptor with high binding affinity and low capacity for the specific steroid. The presence of a specific, common E<sub>2</sub>- TEST receptor is also supposed. Three parts of feather follicles were studied separately and among these the papilla and pulp seem to be the most active during feather development, but the role of the follicular wall is also important. The steroid binding capacity is sex dependent in both remiges and rectrices. Castration increases the specific androgen, ovarectomy the specific oestrogen binding sites. A strong positive relationship was shown between plasma level of TEST and P<sub>4</sub> and the change in their binding sites in follicles during the moulting process. Five stages of feather development were studied. In the resting follicles androgen (males) or oestrogen (females) receptor dominance is typical. At the onset of moult a bi-phasic increase in progestin binding sites takes place together with an increase in the number of oestrogen receptors. High levels of androgen and oestrogen binding sites are found during the rapid growth of new feathers (differentiation of keratin structures) in the period of maximum pulp size. The results indicate a complex multi-steroidal regulation of feather follicle function.
10.2307/3676878|During 1980-85 we compared the age and sex composition of rabbits in wild populations with those in the diet of Eagle Owls in two areas of northern Spain. Relative frequencies of different classes of rabbit were determined by live trapping with muzzled ferrets and nets. Their distribution in Eagle Owl pellets was assessed by bone morphology and biometry. Owls actively selected young rabbits (<500 g) in summer and autumn and subadults (501-1000 g) in autumn and winter. Adults (>1000 g) were avoided throughout the year. Predation on young rabbits was higher in arid areas with scarce vegetation, and males were more likely to be taken than females. Factors that might be important in determining the differential selection of ages and sexes are discussed.
10.2307/3675929|Like Barrow's Goldeneye Bucephala islandica and Bufflehead B. albeola, Common Goldeneye B. clangula defend territories on their breeding grounds. Territorial behaviour of the three species is similar: paired drakes exclude all conspecifics but their mates from their territories; interactions with neighbouring territorial drakes last longer, are less violent and more ritualized than interactions with strangers. All three species are interspecifically territorial and interspecific confrontations are similar to intraspecific ones. Both goldeneyes dominate Bufflehead. Barrow's Goldeneye appear more aggressive than Common Goldeneye but neither species clearly dominate the other. Common Goldeneye and Bufflehead occur on both fresh and saline ponds whereas Barrow's Goldeneye prefer saline ones.
10.2307/3675932|Yellowhammer males sing individually distinct repertoires of 2-3 (1-4) phrase types. The capability of territorial males to discriminate between neighbour and stranger song repertoires was tested by means of playback and a comparison made with similar experiments on their capability to discriminate between own and foreign song dialects. The males were found to respond differentially to known and unknown songs, aggressiveness being higher towards foreign songs. Individuals exposed to repeated tests sang more and called less during later tests. The experiments did not test whether males recognized neighbours on the combination of song types in their repertoires, or whether they reacted according to the proportion of familiar songs in the repertoire.
10.2307/3676882|Much interest has focused on why birds lay variably marked and coloured eggs. We quantified the physiognomy of Dotterel eggs and used discriminant function analysis to compare clutches. Two background colours, feint scribbles and primary spots around the egg apex were particularly significant in discriminating between clutches. On the basis of other studies we suggest that females can be identified consistently according to these physiognomic features of their eggs. Of 109 clutches examined in the field, 6.4% had one markedly odd egg (possibly laid by a brood parasite), but none had extra eggs (only 0.8% of 657 clutches have ever had 4 eggs). As the Dotterel can be polyandrous (we suggest at least 3-5% of females), we postulate that a shortage of males, variable nest losses and an ability in some females to produce many eggs may facilitate brood parasitism. There were no convincing relationships between nest site features and clutch physiognomy, suggesting that individual females do not choose particular nest sites to match their distinctive eggs.
10.2307/3675974|Six foraging niche dimensions (habitat, tree species, tree size, height in tree, tree part, feeding posture) were studied and multidimensional niche overlaps and breadths, which take into account the most important dependencies between niche axes, were calculated. The species studied were: Parus montanus, P. cristatus, P. major, P. ater, Phylloscopus trochilus, Fringilla coelebs, F. montifringilla, Regulus regulus and Certhia familiaris. The six-dimensional niche overlaps between common foliage-gleaning birds were 0.35-0.62, indicating relatively regular spacing of species in the multidimensional space, where all species overlap with one another in roughly the same proportions. Tree part was the most important axis for niche separation, perhaps owing to its close association with body size. The two most important axes, tree species and tree part, explained 77% of six-dimensional foraging niche differences in summer and up to 87% in winter. Foraging niche overlap was lower in winter than in summer, perhaps to avoid interspecific competition for limited food resources in winter. Resident foliage-gleaners were small and able to use versatile postures and to exploit needled twigs. Summer visitors, at least partly, used resources rejected by residents (deciduous trees, low trees). Niche width with respect to foraging site decreased in winter, but posture versatility increased. Fewer foraging sites are profitable for birds in winter, but since food is scarce birds cannot be very selective within each foraging site; hence broad niche for microaxes, such as foraging posture. True multidimensional niche overlaps or breadths could not be estimated adequately by one-dimensional projections (summation or production).
10.2307/3675877|Estimates of mapping efficiency in two census plots in Sweden and Norway were observed to correlate significantly with the species-specific correction coefficients  estimated from Finnish line transect data. Similar, but non-significant correlations were obtained when census plots from northern Sweden and England were analysed. If census efficiency is similar in mapping censuses and line transects, tabulated estimates of  can thus be used in estimating the efficiency of the census of a particular species, and correction coefficients can be derived in order to estimate absolute densities of breeding birds from line transect data. Preliminary observations suggest that the method is not valid for non-passerines. Several questionable points are discussed; the value of new empirical data for bird census methodology is stressed.
10.2307/3676157|From 1972-78 more than 46000 birds of 36 species were investigated during their autumn passage (late June to early November) at the west end of Lake Constance, Germany. Each species investigated was characterized by a species-specific distribution of habitats in which it was caught at the field station site. These patterns of trapping were highly consistent from year to year and represent species-specific habitat preferences. Cluster analysis resulted in groupings of species which associated with each habitat. Moreover, groups comprised of species of diverse genera fell into groups associated with distinct habitats. Some species, particularly late migrating, insectivorous species, show within-season shifts of habitat preference that can be related to changes in food supply. Comparisons of the habitat distributions of juveniles and adults suggest that the species-specific selection of habitat is largely innate, because little modification occurs in association with age-related learning.
10.2307/3676681|Breeding dispersal of Pied Flycatchers was analysed over a six year period. Dispersal distances between consecutive breeding seasons did not differ between the sexes, although female dispersal was probably underestimated. Females were increasingly site-tenacious to at least their third reproduction, while males dispersed short distances within familiar areas irrespective of their age. Most individuals responded to variation in territory quality: the quality of the chosen nestbox was higher during their second than their first breeding attempt. This improved nest site selection was not correlated with breeding dispersal distance in females. However, males dispersing short distances acquired nestboxes of higher quality than those dispersing long distances. Pairs which remated between breeding seasons dispersed very short distances, while neither divorce nor death of the previous mate influenced dispersal in either sex. Contrary to the trend in many similar studies, males (but not females) rearing large broods dispersed further the following year. It is argued that breeding costs may be responsible for this pattern. Our results support the hypothesis of Prt and Gustafsson (1989) that choice of breeding site is based on prior experience.
10.2307/3676687|Black-headed gulls Larus ridibundus foraged for two prey species in an estuary using 'crouching' and 'upright' feeding techniques. Crouching gulls occurred in compact conspecific feeding associations along the tide line, upright gulls were scattered on exposed mud. Crouching gulls took more of the energetically profitable polychaete worm Nereis diversicolor, capturing most when feeding at high densities on the flow (incoming) tide. Capture rate of N. diversicolor was highest, and of the shrimp Corophium volutator was lowest, when gulls foraged at high densities. Over one month the density of N. diversicolor decreased by almost 30% and this was attributed to predation by gulls. A log-linear model was used to identify associations between feeding activities and environmental factors. Tidal movements over the mid-shore, rather than individual differences, determined feeding technique, which in turn determined prey selection and capture rate. Factors affecting the relationship between feeding rate and bird density, such as prey depletion, disturbance and search patch restriction, are discussed. There is a need for studies to tease apart relationships between environmental change, prey availability, bird density and energy intake.
10.2307/3676251|Six cases of bigyny and four of biandry in Tengmalm's Owl published up to and including 1981 are reviewed. There were no differences between the number of eggs layed by primary and secondary females of bigynous males, but a higher mortality of the young was found among secondary broods. This is probably linked with the females' dependence on male food support during breeding. Among primary and secondary clutches of biandrous females no differences in reproductive success was found. An integrated model where both sexes of a pair take part in bigamous breeding is presented. A brief review of the life history of Tengmalm's Owls is given, recognizing nesthole abundance, food availability and nest predation by pine martens as three main factors influencing the frequency of polygamy in this species.
10.2307/3676252|In this study we compare nest defence and offspring protection between male and female Snowy Owls Nyctea scandiaca. In the 25 pairs observed the males were more aggressive than the females and often attacked the human intruder, while the females mostly used distraction display. The conclusion of our study is that the male is the most important defender of nest and offspring.
10.2307/3676492|Population size, local survival and territoriality of Nuthatches were studied in two years with and two years without beech mast, with additional data from a fifth year with presumably no mast. Population size was not larger in summers preceding autumns with beech mast than in summers followed by no mast. Local survival in autumn was higher in beech mast years for juveniles, but not for adults, and the effect of beech mast was more pronounced in juveniles occupying territories with beeches. Local winter survival was not higher in years with than in years without beech mast. The size of the autumn population seems to be adjusted to the food supply through higher rates of starvation or emigration of juveniles occupying low-quality territories in years without beech mast, and not by defence of larger territories.
10.2307/3676361|The frequency of laying gaps was studied in a nestbox breeding population of Blue Tits Parus caeruleus during the breeding season of 1990. In as many as 27% of the 55 clutches studied, laying was interrupted for at least one day. It is concluded that the interruption of egg laying depends on food availability since the frequency of laying gaps decreased in clutches laid by females experimentally provided with extra food. Most gaps occurred after the laying of the first or second egg, indicating that each female started egg laying on the verge of what is possible for uninterrupted laying. The occurrence of laying gaps was not connected with certain dates, female age, clutch size or mean egg mass of the clutch, instead each female seemed to individually optimize the start of egg laying in relation to the risk of interrupted laying. To some extent the female is able to save energy for egg production because an egg laid after a gap was heavier than corresponding eggs laid in clutches without gaps. Furthermore, eggs laid immediatelly before a gap were lighter than equivalent eggs in other clutches, indicating that females, to some extent, are willing to trade egg quality against uninterrupted laying.
10.2307/3676153|In this study we have tried to relate sexual dimorphism in Wheaters Oenanthe oenanthe, especially with respect to bill morphology, to their capabilities for loading prey in their bills for later transport to their young. We measured 91 museum skins (55 males, 36 females) of Swedish Wheatears plus 6 males and 5 females captured in the wild in our study area with respect to bill length, bill depth and bill width, wing length, tarsus length and tail length. A stepwise discriminant analysis was performed on all measurements. Bill length and wing length are the two variables that best discriminate between the sexes. Males are significantly larger in most characters, bill length included. We also recorded the number of maggots loaded by four pairs of Wheatears on each visit to our experimental feeders and the time spent by them at the feeders before flying to their nests with the loads. All males of the experimental pairs had longer bills than their mates, and they also loaded significantly more prey in their bills and did so with greater efficiency (more prey loaded per unit time) than the females. These morphologically determined differences in loading capabilities between the sexes may in turn have consequences for prey selection and other aspects of the foraging ecology of this species.
10.2307/3676708|Herring Gulls and Great Black-backed Gulls were used to examine the reactions of individuals to mate loss. Late in incubation, one member of each of 41 incubating pairs was experimentally removed and its mate's response observed. We predicted that deserted individuals unable to obtain a replacement mate, would also desert the reproductive attempt, and that there would be no sexual difference in responses. All individuals either abandoned the initial clutch or brood. Only one individual replaced a lost mate that season. Males, however, abandoned their eggs significantly earlier than did females. There was no significant difference in the responses of the two species, nor any significant species-sex interaction. We review and suggest a number of possible explanations for why males and females should react differently. These include cumulative reproductive effort, the tertiary sex ratio, the physical reserves of the deserted mate, the possibility and consequences of mixed reproductive strategies, and potential differences in replacement costs between the sexes due to differences in what each sex regards as its primary asset.
10.2307/3676793|Starlings show considerable variation in egg mass among clutches. Mean clutch egg mass was highly repeatable for females, but few characteristics of females were found to relate to egg mass. Egg mass related weakly to female age, but female age only explained a small part of the variation. Hatchling mass was strongly correlated with egg mass, but body mass at 14 d of age was unrelated to egg mass. Nestling tarsus length at the same age was related to mean egg mass in one, but not another, year. Egg mass had no effect on hatchability or fledging success, although there was some evidence that brood reduction was more severe among broods hatching from small eggs. Females that had laid larger eggs were in better condition during incubation thus suggesting that high quality females are able to lay larger eggs and to maintain higher body reserves during incubation. This was supported by the observation that females laying smaller eggs were more likely to abandon their nests during incubation.
10.2307/3676871|American Black Ducks Anas rubripes were marked and recaptured along mid-coastal Maine between the winters of 1979 and 1985 to examine the relationship between body mass and annual survival. Binary regression analyses indicated that late-winter body mass was not positively related to annual survival for any age-sex class.
10.2307/3676592|Nest site preferences of Capercaillie Tetrao urogallus and nest predation risk in relation to habitat fragmentation patterns were studied in an area of the Bavarian Alps, West Germany. Nest sites were located through radio-equipped females. Hens strongly preferred to nest in edge habitats, namely between mature forests and clearcuts. Nest predation risk was assessed by an experiment with artificial nests, considering effects of successional stage, patch size, and distance of nests from an edge. About two thirds of the nests were destroyed, mostly by mammal predators. Losses were lowest in stands of the youngest and the oldest successional stages. Predation was lower in edge habitats than inside forest stands. No difference in predation risk or in nest site preferences was found in relation to stand size. The results suggest that Capercaillie hens selected nest sites in order to minimize predation risk.
10.2307/3676547|Using five mated pairs of free-ranging White-breasted Nuthatches Sitta carolinensis, I examined whether the social dominance of the male nuthatch over the female affects the caching behavior of each individual of the pair. I allowed each bird of a mated pair in five deciduous woodlots in central Ohio to scatterhoard 30 mealworms Tenebrio sp. For each caching trip, I recorded data on 10 variables describing cache site characteristics and social context. I compared niche overlap and niche breadth values to determine the degree of sex-specific caching behavior. Nuthatches typically cached food items in bark crevices on the trunks of large, highly rugose trees. Both male and female nuthatches selected trees for cache placement that had higher than average rugosity. Departure directions from the food source differed significantly between the sexes when the male cached first. Males used the trunks of trees as a substrate for caching significantly more often than did females. By utilizing a broader caching niche, the females may have reduced interference competition from their mate, and thus may have compensated for their socially subordinate status.
10.2307/3676819|Reproduction of the Ural Owl was followed in a population of about 140 pairs on an area of <tex-math>$2200\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> of south-boreal coniferous forests in Finland. All pairs bred in nest-boxes and almost every breeding female was ringed. We measured 331 clutches of 145 females in 1977-1984. The number of breeding pairs depended on the 3-4 year vole cycles. Only 24% of the females laid eggs during vole lows, while 76% laid in peak years. Average clutch size decreased from 3.48 in good through 3.01 in intermediate to 2.25 eggs in poor breeding seasons. The yearly median date of laying varied over 29 days, from 25 March 1983 (good vole year) to 23 April 1977 (poor vole year). Early laying seasons were preceded by warm autumns and mild winters with a good vole supply. Clutch size decreased by <tex-math>$0.09\ \text{eggs}\ {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math> as the season advanced. The highest female components of egg size rose to 80-90% in poor and intermediate years, but decreased to about 65-75% in good years. Thus egg size among females differed most in poor breeding seasons and less when more food was available. According to the theory of life history tactics, individuals of long-lived species reproducing in fluctuating environments should adjust their reproductive efforts to the prevailing conditions. Ural Owls vary their clutch size and egg size (both within and between clutches) in relation to the quality of the breeding season. Mean egg size increases and within-clutch variation in egg size decreases as the prevalence (relative frequency) of a clutch increases. Assuming that nestling mortality is independent of clutch size, the most prevalent clutches will also be the most profitable. Observed within and between clutch variation in egg size may be explained as a female's tactical response to the profitability of her investment. However, the possibility that the observed patterns are related to the variation in territory quality is not definitely excluded.
10.2307/3676805|Two recent models of body mass regulation suggest that wintering birds will show one of two energy storage strategies. Both models suggest that birds will increase the amplitude of the daily cycle of body mass as midwinter approaches and decrease the amplitude toward spring. Seasonal changes in night length and night temperature cause seasonal variation in thermoregulatory demands, hence seasonal variation in amplitude of the daily mass cycle. The models differ in that only the first but not the second model proposes an increase in dawn body mass toward midwinter, and a subsequent decrease in mass toward spring; in the second model, the daily minimum mass remains seasonally constant. Because fat is a major component of daily and seasonal variation in body mass, these contrasting strategies for body mass regulation have been termed "true winter fattening" and "constant dawn mass" strategies, respectively. In the former case, the seasonal increase in the dawn body/fat mass is considered to represent an emergency energy supply to be used during sudden poor feeding conditions, i.e. snow and ice storms. We present data on four species of temperate-dwelling passerines that support the first but not the second model. In the Dark-eyed Junco Junco hyemalis wintering in southern Indiana, amplitude of the daily cycle of body mass, evening and dawn body mass, and evening and dawn visible fat class all increased toward midwinter and decreased toward spring. A highly significant linear relationship between visible fat and chemically extracted body lipid in this species verified that the visible fat class system reliably measured body fat content. In addition, the seasonal variation in mass amplitude was explained by seasonal variation in nighttime roosting temperature and night length. The Northern Cardinal Cardinalis cardinalis and Fox Sparrow Passerella iliaca wintering in southern Indiana and the Song Sparrow Melospiza melodia wintering in southwest British Columbia all displayed a seasonal increase and decrease in dawn body mass and visible fat class. Results of this study and previous studies indicate that 13 of 14 species studied in Europe, Asia, and North America display this strategy for regulating winter body mass. We conclude that among birds that winter in the temperate zone, there has been widespread natural selection for a seasonal increase in the daily minima of body mass and fat reserve.
10.2307/3676171|Six all-year bird species made up over 90 percent of the passerine bird community in a coniferous plantation in South Sweden during winter and about 12 percent during summer. In winter, Parus ater and Regulus regulus spent relatively more time in spruce than in pine, but in absolute terms the opposite was the case. In summer, by contrast, they were almost exclusively recorded in spruce. No major seasonal shifts of the feeding niches were found in Parus cristatus, P. montanus, and Certhia familiaris. Interspecific differences of seasonal niche constancy are interpreted in terms of (A) population stability and tendency of migration, (B) food storing habits, and (C) competition from summer visitors, particularly the abundant Phylloscopus trochilus.
10.2307/3676797|Previous evidence suggested that avian species capable of entering deep torpor (hummingbirds and goatsuckers) rarely if ever do so during the incubation or brooding period. This paper describes three instances where adult Common Poorwills Phalaenoptilus nuttallii, monitored remotely using radio-telemetry, did enter torpor while incubating or brooding. Our results indicate that although rare, entry into torpor is possible for reproductively active poorwills.
10.2307/3676783|The sex-ratio of rabbits Oryctolagus cuniculus taken by Golden Eagles Aquila chrysaetos in northern Spain was investigated by sexing pelvic bones from remains found in eyries. The sex-ratio of rabbits in the field was estimated simultaneously by sampling warrens with ferrets and by hunting drives with dogs. The proportion of male rabbits taken by Golden Eagles better approximated that available on the ground during the day than the sex-ratio in the warrens, possibly as a result of greater male above-ground activity.
10.2307/3676464|The relationship of food supply to parental investment was investigated among Swallows rearing nestlings. Adult body mass, which might serve as an index of self-maintenance, was recorded in a study using precision electronic balances. Investment in offspring was quantified by concurrent measurement of the amount of food delivered to the brood. Parents delivered more food to the brood when food was abundant, and were heavier themselves at high levels of prey availability. Swallows therefore invest in self-maintenance and in offspring according to opportunity, perhaps an adaptive strategy for an animal exploiting an unpredictable feeding resource. The ratio of female mass: mate mass was less than one for two pairs studied when food was scarce. Although both sexes delivered food at equal rates to a range of natural and experimental brood masses, females delivered relatively more food than males when food was scarce. An index of parental investment was derived as the ratio of adult body mass: food delivery rate. Males invested relatively more in self-maintenance relative to offspring than did females when food was scarce. The findings are discussed in relation to parental investment theory.
10.2307/3676621|The Common Guillemot population on Skomer Island, Wales, has recently increased following a long period of decline. We measured population parameters in 1985-89 and compared them with parameters measured in 1973-75 to identify the processes responsible for these population changes. Productivity increased significantly from <tex-math>$0.72\ \text{chicks pair}^{-1}\ {\rm yr}^{-1}$</tex-math> in 1973-75 to <tex-math>$0.79\ \text{chicks pair}^{-1}\ {\rm yr}^{-1}$</tex-math> in 1986-87. Adult survival was higher in 1986-89 (94.0%) than in 1973-75 (91.5%), but the difference was not significant. Information is not yet available to determine whether survival to breeding age, and therefore recruitment, has also increased. A model of population growth is presented, incorporating observed changes in productivity and adult survival, and employing three values for survival to breeding. A close fit to observed population changes was obtained with a survival rate to first breeding at five years of 41.1%, the highest survival rate previously recorded for Common Guillemots.
10.2307/3675978|Most of the Peregrine territories which were visited in winter showed some signs of recent occupation. Pairs or single Peregrines were seen at about half of the inland territories and at about a third of coastal territories. More single females than single males were seen. No first year birds were seen at breeding sites in the winter. All first year birds recovered dead, from August to February, were on low ground (below 250 m a.s.l.) and most winter sightings on low ground were of juveniles. Inland Peregrines fed mainly on passerines (71%), especially redwings and fieldfares (45%). Coastal Peregrines fed mainly on pigeons (30%) and passerines (45%) but took a smaller proportion of wintering thrushes.
10.2307/3676271|Ten pairs of experimentally naive Willow Grouse were introduced to a "fighting chamber", one pair at the time. The birds' combsize was measured, their degree of body and head moulting was registered and their defecation pattern in the home cage was noted. In addition were the colonic temperatures measured before and after the fights. The birds that won the encounters had significantly lower colonic temperatures before and after the fights, their comb serrations were significantly higher, their body moulting further advanced and the number of defecation piles in the home cage was significantly higher than for the losing bird. The data demonstrate that external social signals are matched internally by differences in colonic temperatures between the two groups of birds which may reflect different levels of activation.
10.2307/3676538|We studied the possibility that interspecific kleptoparasitism restricts the choice of hoarding sites in mixed flocks of the Willow Tit Parus montanus and the Crested Tit P. cristatus. In coniferous forests of Central Finland both species hoard seeds, and we observed the locations where the birds of five different flocks cached sunflower seeds provided by us. Overlaps in the hoarding niches were smaller than overlaps in the foraging niches in all study flocks. The reduction in the overlap of hoarding sites was due to Crested Tits hoarding relatively many seeds in the outer parts of spruce branches and Willow Tits hoarding many seeds on the trunk and the thickest branches. Both species tended to avoid the locations in which the other species forages, suggesting that the risk of interspecific kleptoparasitism influences the selection of hoarding sites in mixed species tit flocks.
10.2307/3676051|Foraging activity of Jackdaws at a Guillemot colony on Skomer Island, Wales, is described. Colour ringing showed that only a few "specialist" Jackdaws operated at the Guillemot colony, and these fed mainly on fish dropped by Guillemots and on remains of Guillemot and Razorbill eggs predated by other species. Jackdaw success for collection of fish was 2.0% and overall food item success was 3.5%. Jackdaws were able to determine the level of fish being brought to the colony by Guillemots, and regulated their behaviour accordingly. Thus, when fish levels were high, Jackdaws increased the amount of time they spent at the colony, and by doing so, increased the number of food items they obtained. The results showed that Jackdaw activity did not seriously affect Guillemot breeding success.
10.2307/3676406|Any damage a host causes to its own eggs when ejecting a parasitic egg from its nest must be considered when attempting to make realistic predictions about optimal host response to parasitism. We have assessed such damage for the Northern Oriole Icterus galbula, a species which puncture-ejects the eggs of Brown-headed Cowbirds Molothrus ater. We experimentally added genuine Brown-headed Cowbird eggs, which have substantially stronger shells than the eggs of comparable-sized passerines, to nests of the Northern Oriole. Orioles often damage some of their own eggs when ejecting a cowbird egg. The hatching success of damaged oriole eggs was less than 45%, while 99% of the undamaged eggs hatched. These results allow us to estimate that the cost of puncture-ejecting cowbird eggs is the death of 0.26 oriole eggs for each cowbird egg ejected. We also measured rearing costs in a limited number of nests into which we placed a newly hatched cowbird chick shortly after the oriole eggs hatched. When there were four oriole chicks in a nest, the cost of rearing a cowbird chick exceeded the cost of puncture ejection.
10.2307/3675947|By measuring the egg mass loss between the time of laying and the time of collection and dividing this difference by the estimated or observed daily egg mass loss, one is able to estimate laying dates. Egg mass at the time of laying was determined after replacing the air cell with water, using the technique of Grant et al. (1982a). At latitude 79 our estimated laying dates ranged from 16 to 31 May for the Fulmars and 2 to 20 June for the Murres and are compared with observations of others at various latitudes. The physical dimensions of the egg and shell are described. In spite of similar egg mass for the two species, the eggshell conductance and the pore count for the Fulmar were appreciably smaller than for the Murre, reflecting the large differences in their incubation times.
10.2307/3676509|The courtship display in male Great Bustard Otis tarda was analysed in terms of its structural meaning. The display followed a bimodal pattern of daily activity at temperatures between 15 and 21C. It was used in both agonistic and sexual contexts. Three phases are described whose mean durations differed according to the nature, aggressive or sexual, of the interaction. The aggressive type was performed mainly at the beginning of the mating season, whereas the frequency of the sexual type increased as the mating period progressed. The duration of the last phase of the sexual display (P-3 or full display) correlated with the number of females attracted.
10.2307/3676769|Nocturnal weight loss in birds varies seasonally due to variation of photoperiod and temperature. Birds can maintain weight balance (1) by compensating for the loss of the previous night or (2) by anticipating the loss. In case (1) minimum (morning) weights will decrease the longer and the colder the nights are whereas in case (2) the morning weights will remain constant. The concept of winter fattening should be restricted to mean only the cases in which (3) the minimum (morning) weight increases before winter starts. The morning weight is the only momentary weight that is globally comparable in day-active animals. Consequently, the seasonal 'adaptive weight variation' must be divided into two components and causative factors behind each of them considered separately. First, by adjusting the daily weight amplitude the bird can cope with photoperiodic and temperature challenges. Secondly, variation in the daily minimum weight reflects the safety margin enhancing survival under poor feeding conditions. Constant morning weights are sufficient only in highly predictable environments. A greater unpredictability of the opportunities to replenish daily fat reserves should lead to a seasonal increase in the daily minimum weight. I measured the seasonality of overnight weight losses and diurnal gains in three passerines. In the Greenfinch and the Yellowhammer diurnal gains closely equalled nocturnal losses throughout the winter and showed seasonality, which could be explained by night length and temperature. In the Great Tit daily gain remained low in mid-winter, but overnight losses varied seasonally as predicted. In all the species morning weights increased before winter started, indicating varying degrees of true winter fattening.
10.2307/3676203|The time of 'the onset of spring', viz. of favourable weather conditions and of vegetational development, does not seem to be more predictable at high latitudes than at low (data analysed from Norway), and thus cannot be used to explain the phenomenon of leap-frog migration in birds, i.e. it cannot explain why birds which breed in northern areas do not over-winter nearby as their more southern relatives do. When evaluating over-wintering and migration strategies in birds the basic points in comparison of different latitudinal areas are not only the phenological and climate predictability, but also the factors of competition and predation in the breeding areas, and the problem of building up enough resources to meet environmental stresses during the arrival and breeding.
10.2307/3676876|A study of a colour-ringed population of the Penduline Tit in Southern Sweden has revealed a new mating system, ambisexual polygamy, in which sequential polygyny and polyandry occur simultaneously. All parental duties were carried out by one mate only. Of 140 clutches, 48% were attended by females and 18% by males, while 34% were deserted by both parents before incubation. Polyandry was exhibited by 31% of the females, while the remainder attended their first brood. Clutches incubated by females were larger than those deserted. Of the males, 30% assumed parental care, most of them in the later part of the breeding season. Polygamy could give each mate the opportunity of increasing its breeding success, but due to individual differences in behaviour, the outcome is varied. We argue that the unique mating system of the Penduline Tit has developed as a consequence of an increasingly skewed sex-ratio among individuals available for new pair-bonds as the breeding season progresses.
10.2307/3676375|Effects of kleptoparasitism by Black-tailed Gulls Larus crassirostris on the daily activity pattern of Rhinoceros Auklets Cerorhinca monocerata were studied on Teuri and Daikoku islands, Hokkaido, Japan. On Teuri I., about 40% of the auklets with fish were kleptoparasitized by Black-tailed Gulls. Seasonal and intercolony differences in the risk of kleptoparasitism affected the daily activity pattern of Rhinoceros Auklets at a time scale of tens of minutes because (1) on Teuri I. auklets entered the colony slightly later in the evening during chick rearing, when they were heavily kleptoparasitized by the gulls, than they did during incubation, when they were not kleptoparasitized, (2) on Daikoku I., where they were not kleptoparasitized, they entered the colony about 30 min earlier than on Teuri I., and (3) kleptoparasitism decreased during the progress of the evening. However, potential predation risk from Slaty-backed gulls Larus schistisagus and food availability might have affected the daily activity of Rhinoceros Auklets at a longer time scale. Rhinoceros Auklets hit an experimental obstacle more frequently during darkness than at dusk. Hence, sensory constraints also might restrict the period of their landing activity.
10.2307/3676144|The Golden Plover population on Jren, Norway, generally referred to as the only recent population of Pluvialis apricaria apricaria (L.) in Norway, was examined by the character index method, together with five adjacent coastal and inland populations. The populations on Jren and Karmy were found to contain ssp. apricaria together with a certain P. a. altifrons (Brehm)-element. Remaining populations could be characterized as altifrons. On Jren altifrons-populations pass by on spring migration when the local population has commenced breeding. Colonization by altifrons on abbreviated migration will therefore be confined to suboptimal areas. However, in spite of the time barrier, and a possible reduced breeding success of altifrons in suboptimal areas, an intergradation process seems evident. The apricaria-phenotype probably has a selective advantage over altifrons in a more cryptic colour on heath-land nest substrate, and is therefore maintained in the population.
10.2307/3676689|Nest holes used by Tengmalm's Owl Aegolius funereus and Hawk Owl Surnia ulula are possible for pine martens Martes martes to enter, while those used by Pygmy Owl Glaucidium passerinum are not. By erecting nest boxes in three areas, nest predation rate was found to be higher in the Tengmalm's Owl and the Hawk Owl than in the Pygmy Owl. In the Tengmalm's Owl, nest predation rate was higher in closed mature spruce forest than in other habitats, and boxes in this habitat were avoided. Pine martens mainly used nest boxes in closed mature spruce forest for denning and roosting. Holes used for nesting by Pygmy Owls had the same habitat distribution as those used by pine martens, while those used for nesting by Tengmalm's Owls and Hawk Owls had not, since they were mainly situated in open forest habitats. Appearing in the nest hole entrance as a reaction to simulation of a predator climbing the nest tree occurred more often in the Tengmalm's Owl and the Hawk Owl than in the Pygmy Owl. There was a positive correlation between reaction rate and nest predation rate when the three species and study areas were compared.
10.2307/3676615|Release experiments were conducted to examine a number of questions concerning the orientation behaviour of free-flying birds. (1) We found distinct differences in the orientation performance of Robins released under clear and overcast skies, respectively, during autumn migration. While Robins oriented in a seasonally appropriate direction under clear skies, they selected a northwesterly mean direction under overcast, pointing to the importance of visual celestial cues during autumn migration. There was no significant difference in orientation under clear and overcast skies in releases performed during spring migration. Pied Flycatchers failed to orient in their expected migratory direction when released under clear autumn skies, probably because of strong winds. (2) The amount of stored fuel reserves had a pronounced influence on the decision to take off on migratory flights, both for Robins and Pied Flycatchers. (3) Autumn releases of Robins and Pied Flycatchers under clear skies revealed a significantly larger angular dispersion in orientation for migratorily naive (first-year) birds as compared to adults. This suggests that adult birds orient with higher precision due to experience and/or that strong selection among young migrants operates to maintain orientation within narrow limits. (4) Pied Flycatchers (long-distance migrants) vanished from view significantly faster than did Robins (short-distance migrants) when released under clear autumn skies. (5) Displacement experiments with Robins and Pied Flycatchers, captured at two different sites and then transported to a common release site, yielded inconsistent results which, in only one case out of four, could be interpreted as compensatory orientation towards the capture sites.
10.2307/3676479|The autumn habitat selection of Pink-footed Geese Anser brachyrhynchus and Greylag Geese Anser anser in temporal sympatry and allopatry was studied on farmland in West Jutland, Denmark. When Greylags were alone in the area (Sep.) they positively selected stubbles and undersown stubbles. When the two species co-occurred (Oct.) the Greylags positively selected stubbles, but strongly avoided undersown stubbles, whereas the Pinkfeet positively selected undersown stubbles and stubbles. Alone (Nov.) the Pinkfeet showed the same selection. When co-occurring, the two species were differently distributed with an overlap of 0.20 in relative field utilization. It is suggested that, due to exploitative competition, the Greylags avoid the flocks of the more numerous Pinkfeet and shift habitat. Apart from habitat type the disturbance level and tolerance of disturbance are important factors segregating the two species.
10.2307/3676379|Dominant/subordinate interspecific relationships of seven passerine species nesting in the high-mountain of the Sierra Nevada (S. Spain) were studied. The dominant species was Oenanthe oenanthe, and the subordinates Phoenicurus ochruros, Anthus campestris, Emberiza cia, Alauda arvensis, Carduelis cannabina and Sylvia communis. The degree of subordination was not related to population size, body size or foraging substrate overlap, although the dominant species' aggression was mainly directed at the two species more ecologically similar to it, viz. P. ochruros and, to a lesser degree, A. campestris. Aggressive encounters were more frequent during the reproductive period. P. ochruros was attacked by O. oenanthe five times as often as A. campestris, and this difference was attributed to their different foraging strategies.
10.2307/3676236|Local movements, site tenacity, rearing areas, and broods' relationship to vegetation were investigated for Anas platyrhynchos, A. strepera, A. crecca, A. penelope, Aythya marila, A. fuligula, Bucephala islandica, Clangula hyemalis, Melanitta nigra, and Mergus serrator. Broods of dabbling ducks showed a higher degree of site tenacity than those of diving ducks. Only B. islandica defended a brood territory. Diving duck broods congregated in major brood rearing areas on the open water whereas dabbling duck broods were more bound to proximity to supra-aquatic vegetation. All species preferred barren shores and peninsulas of lava gravel for loafing sites. There was considerable interspecific overlapping in habitat selection of broods. In many respects A. penelope and A. fuligula were intermediates between the dabbling and the diving ducks.
10.2307/3676350|Within a colony of Fieldfares Turdus pilaris L. different clutch sizes (4-7 eggs) varied greatly with respect to average egg weight, and clutches with a medium number of eggs had heaviest eggs. Large (in terms of wing length) females bred at greater heights than did small ones, and the large females also laid large eggs. No significant correlation was obtained between weight of female and mean egg weight per clutch or clutch weight. In colonies where the nests were situated close to each other the egg weights were relatively low. The biomass of lumbricids in the birds' feeding areas (the bulk of the food) was positively correlated with mean egg weight in the colony.
10.2307/3676000|The use of feathers in birds' nests is assumed to influence three essential parameters of nesting success, viz. a larger number of feathers tends to increase nest insulation, but also increase the risk of nest predation and to a minor degree the risk of hyperthermia of the young. From these opposing selection pressures differences in use of feathers are predicted for open- and hole-nesting bird species, for species with differing nest concealment, for early and late breeding species, for small and large species, and for species with a northern or a southern geographical distribution. Furthermore, the amount of nest material is expected to decrease when a risk of hyperthermia is present. Most of these predictions were supported by data on the nesting habits of European passerines.
10.2307/3676762|The host interactions of the European Cuckoo Cuculus canorus were studied in highland regions of Central Norway. Over a 12-year period, 17 potential host species were investigated for evidence of nest parasitism by the Cuckoo. Only three species were actually parasitized (Meadow Pipit Anthus pratensis, Reed Bunting Emberiza schoeniclus, and Lapland Bunting Calcarius lapponicus). These species have similar eggs and also had similar parasitism rates, viz. about 6% in the higher lying areas, and 25% (only Meadow Pipits) in the lower areas. This indicates that individual female Cuckoos have the opportunity to use several species as hosts, depending on the colour and shape of the host's eggs. Breeding success for the Cuckoo was 56%. Deserted host nests contained significantly more eggs than undeserted nests, a fact which may indicate that one mechanism for the host to detect parasitism is to assess the number of eggs. It is therefore important for the Cuckoo to remove at least one of the host eggs when laying its own, This study shows that a mean of 1.5 eggs were probably removed per parasitized host nest.
10.2307/3675998|Meal size and feeding frequency of Christmas Shearwaters and Phoenix Petrels on Motu Tabu, Christmas Island, Central Pacific Ocean, were determined by weighing chicks at 4-h intervals throughout 24-h periods. Most feeding occurred between 1600 and 2400 hours. Meal size was estimated by the mass increment between visits. Positive increments were summed over 24 h (SUM) to provide an index to the total mass of food received. Over two nights, 10 of 17 Phoenix Petrel chicks had SUMs exceeding 25 g (max. 110 g), indicating large meals. Four SUMs of 5 and 10 g were discounted as either weighing errors or inconsequential meals. Assuming that members of a pair fed their chicks independently, this indicates a probability of feeding of 0.36 per parent per night, i.e., every third night on average. Twenty-six of 30 Christmas Shearwater chicks had SUMs exceeding 35 g (max. 95 g), suggesting a feeding probability of 0.63 per parent per night. The means of SUMs were 54.8  23.5 SD for the Christmas Shearwater (16.1% of chick mass) and 37.1  36.8 SD for the Phoenix Petrel (13.6%). Estimated masses of meals delivered by each parent were 48.2 g  9.1 SD (14.2% adult mass) and 49.4 g  21.5 SD (18.2%), respectively. Net mass gains by chicks over 24 h were significantly related to SUM with slopes of <tex-math>$0.42\ {\rm g}\ {\rm g}^{-1}\pm 0.07\ {\rm SE}$</tex-math> and <tex-math>$0.77\ {\rm g}\ {\rm g}^{-1}\pm 0.11\ {\rm SE}$</tex-math>, respectively. These data are consistent with the suggestion of Ashmole and Ashmole (1967) that the Phoenix Petrel feeds more pelagically than the Christmas Shearwater and delivers a meal with a higher energy content and less water. In general, mass increments can be analyzed to describe components of variation in meal size and feeding rate for comparison among pelagic seabirds. These data may also allow one to infer aspects of feeding ecology and the resource environment of the chick.
10.2307/3675922|The feeding pattern of the two bird species was investigated in mixed (pine/birch) and pure birch forest in the prealpine and subalpine zones in western Norway. Some data on habitat segregation are given. The two species are found to diverge in (a) habitat selection, and (b) foraging pattern, both as to selection of tree species (in mixed forest) and feeding heights (both habitats). The reported interspecific competition in heath birch forest (a habitat not available in the studied area) is assumed to result from the structural simplicity of this habitat, offering few possibilities for foraging pattern segregation. Although no dietary analysis was carried out, the present study showed that in the birch forest, both species caught the majority of their prey items in the foliage of birches.
10.2307/3676187|The Nuthatch is territorial for most of the year. Territory size in a south Swedish population was determined during three breeding seasons and one winter. It was found to be largest during winter. Size was negatively correlated with the number of fledged young/pair in one year. Territory size was similar in oak- and beech-dominated forest, but breeding success was higher in oak forest. In spruce forest, territory size was largest in all years, and production of young was high in two years with abundant spruce seed crops. The average production in all habitats was 2.4, 2.5, and 2.6 fledged young/pair in the three years. Three pairs did not lay eggs in one spring. The adaptive value of the patterns observed is discussed.
10.2307/3676321|In the present paper we analyse changes in concentration and total amounts in the dry body weight of such elements as N, S, P, Na, K, Ca, Mg, Fe, Cu, Mn, Co, Zn, Cd, and Hg during a 30-d period of the development of nestling Rooks Corvus frugilegus. The nestlings were taken from Rook colonies established in villages located near Warsaw, Poland. The concentrations (<tex-math>${\rm mg}\ {\rm g}^{-1}\ {\rm dw}$</tex-math> and <tex-math>${\rm mg}\ {\rm kg}^{-1}\ {\rm dw}$</tex-math>) of Cd, Hg, Cu, Co, and S did not vary over the period of nestling development. The concentrations of Zn and N increased with the age of nestling but this increase was not statistically significant. The concentrations of Mn, Fe, Na and K decreased with age. The concentrations of Ca, P, and Mg increased with the age of nestlings. The ratio of Ca:P concentrations increased with nestling growth. The total amounts (in mg) of all these elements except for Mn, increased with nestling age as the dry body weight increased. The changes in the total amounts and concentrations of the study elements in the body of nestling Rooks were related to the role of particular elements in growing organisms.
10.2307/3676209|The distribution of Puffin nest burrows was studied above and below the cliff face at Vk i Myrdal, Iceland. Four study plots were established, one above and three below the cliff. Multiple linear regression analysis showed that burrow density was negatively correlated with distance from the cliff edge above the cliff, and was positively correlated with the perimeter of boulders at each of the three study plots below the cliff. The biological significance of these correlations is considered to be that the cliff edge above the cliff, and boulders below it, serve as a landmark function, facilitating rapid detection of the burrow entrance by the Puffin. This is important in the presence of skuas and gulls, which rob the Puffin of the food it brings to the burrow for its chick. Other factors which might limit the spread of Puffin burrows in adjacent habitat are predation and soil conditions.
10.2307/3676080|Immature Oystercatchers moulted from the end of May to September, and adults from late July or early August to October. Both age groups completed moult in about 100 d. Adults began moulting as soon as their young had fledged. Adults decreased in weight during the first half of moult; immatures increased in weight during the second half. The south-west is the main moulting and wintering area within Iceland. This is probably because of the relatively mild climate and the presence of large mussel stocks. Many birds from South Iceland, where there are no large coastal feeding areas, moult in winter quarters in the British Isles. The situation on other coasts is obscure.
10.2307/3676490|Lundberg (1986) has proposed that reversed sexual dimorphism (RSD) in owls has evolved as a result of selection for larger mass in females to resist starvation and shorter wings in males for more efficient foraging. His hypothesis is based on (1) a lack of correlation between RSD in weight and RSD in wing in European owls, (2) a correlation between RSD in weight and mean breeding latitude of a species and (3) a correlation between RSD in wing and the incidence of birds in the diet. I examine another four samples of weight and wing measurements and another two samples of diet for European owls, thus increasing the number of comparisons for a given relationship from one to as many as 15. Items (1) and (3) are supported by this analysis. Item (2) may be an artifact resulting from a correlation between insectivorous owls with low RSD that have southern distributions and owls that prey on vertebrates and have more northern distributions. Korpimki (1986) offers further support for Lundberg's hypotheses: (1) early breeding species of raptors show greater RSD than later breeding species and (2) pairs of Aegolius funereus breeding early in the season show greater RSD in weight than those breeding later. Item (1) is weakly supported by analysis of other samples. Reanalysis of the data for item (2) strongly suggests that there is no difference in size between early and late breeding females, the former are simply fatter than the latter. Early breeding males are smaller than late breeding males and all breeding males are smaller than non-breeding males, suggesting that females choose small males. Mueller (1986) found that RSD may have evolved as a result of selection for large females and small males to facilitate pair formation. Lundberg's and Korpimki's results are in agreement with this hypothesis but my reanalysis of their data largely eliminates this support.
10.2307/3676839|We studied long-term population changes in 43 abundant species of forest birds using line transect censuses conducted in northern Finland from 1941 to 77. Previous studies have suggested that human-caused habitat changes are a major reason for regional, long-term changes of bird populations. Birds of old taiga forests have decreased in number because of clear-cutting and forest fragmentation. Many southern species have increased during the period studied, probably partly because of an overflow of individuals from increasing populations in southern Finland, partly as a consequence of habitat changes (increase of bushy young forests and forest edges) in northern Finland. While the median northern species decreased by about one-third, the median southern species increased 5-fold in northern Finland during the study period. How do the regional patterns translate to the local scale? An area characterized by mature forest and peatlands in Simo was censused in 1959 and 1977-81. Between these censuses the area changed drastically due to clear-cutting and draining. Species trends were similar to those observed regionally but more species declined, probably because, on average, the local habitat changes were more extreme than those on the regional scale. In contrast, another local study area, a luxuriant spruce forest (Trmvaara), remained intact from a first census in 1915 until censused again in 1981-83. In this area the local stability expected was overshadowed by the regional changes: in the 1980s the reserve-like Trmvaara was no longer characterized by the typical bird species of northern old forests, but the bird populations had changed largely as in managed forests in northern Finland. This result suggests that the bird populations in small forest reserves in northern Finland are not closed but affected by the dynamics of the regional populations.
10.2307/3676894|Previous studies showed that two subspecies of White-crowned Sparrow Zonotrichia leucophrys intergrade in morphological, physiological, and electrophoretic traits along the north coast of California, U.S.A. Characteristics of song, however, did not exhibit variation concordant with that of the other traits. Songs intermediate between those of Z. l. nuttalli and Z. l. pugetensis occurred from approximately the northern end of morphological intergrade, at Clam Beach, California, north to about the coastal redwood forest. At Crescent City, California, just north of the redwoods, features of the song shifted more toward those of Z. l. pugetensis, and all birds recorded from here north to Bandon, Oregon exhibited pure Z. l. pugetensis song phenotypes. Earlier studies by Blanchard (1942) suggested a gradual transition in migratory behavior from non-migratory Z. l. nuttalli to fully migratory Z. l. pugetensis over approximately the same zone that the songs seem to intergrade.
10.2307/3676857|In autumn 1981, Capercaillie skulls (N = 813) were collected from Finnish hunters. On the basis of ossification of the skull, five growth groups (from 0 to 4 yr) were formed in males and three (from 0 to 2 yr) in females. Growth groups corresponded moderately well with multivariate-estimated age groups. Of the 26 variables measured, accelerated sexual dimorphism was most obvious in the length and height growth of the beak as well as in the growth of the bony structures to which the beak is attached. Selection for the robust beak of males might be based on their need (1) to compete for females on spring leks, and (2) to effectively handle winter food of pine needles during the short days of winter. Discriminant function analysis of skull measurements revealed geographical trends over the boreal zone, which were based on variation in the cranial dimensions of the skull, especially those of the braincase. The large subspecies T. u. urogallus breeds in the north and the small T. u. uralensis in the south. The transition zone between these shows similarities with other mid-boreal zoogeographical boundaries. In addition, the effect of the large Central European T. u. major is seen in the population of southernmost Finland.
10.2307/3676301|Five Larus gulls breeding in an archipelago in SW Sweden differed in degree of coloniality. L. marinus occurred solitarily or in small colonies (x = 6.8 pairs, s = 11); L. argentatus nested in colonies of variable size (x = 19, s = 44), solitary pairs being rare; L. fuscus mainly occurred in large colonies (x = 42, s = 67); L. canus resembled L. argentatus in coloniality (x = 21, s = 45) while L. ridibundus was highly colonial (x = 62, s = 106). The spacing of nests in the colonies also differed: the more 'colonial' the species, the closer were the nests. Recent population changes have affected social organization only in L. argentatus and L. ridibundus (increased colony size). Mixed colonies of L. argentatus and L. fuscus were common. L. marinus, L. argentatus and particularly L. fuscus nested mainly in the outer archipelago, whereas L. canus and L. ridibundus nested closer to the mainland. Factors accounting for the differences in colonial tendency are discussed. The degree of coloniality seems to increase with foraging range and unpredictability of food sources, in agreement with the 'information centre hypothesis' and Horn's (1968) geometric model. However, other evidence contradicts these hypotheses. Coloniality has been shown to enhance defence against predators of eggs and young in L. canus; this probably also applies to L. ridibundus. The differences in colonial tendency among the five species may be due partly to differences in body size: large size should make defence against predators more efficient and hence permit nesting in smaller colonies or solitarily. The spacing of nests may be influenced by the risk of intraspecific killing of chicks.
10.2307/3676779|This 5-yr study analyses home-range sizes in a population of European Jays in southernmost Sweden in relation to population density and breeder status. Home-range sizes were measured by radio-tracking during the pre-breeding and breeding periods. The home-range sizes of individual Jays changed with the onset of breeding. In years with a high number of adult birds at the beginning of the breeding season, home-ranges were compressed and, conversely, during low density years they were enlarged. Whereas home-range size was positively related to population density during the pre-breeding period, it showed a negative relation to density during breeding. Non-breeders had larger home-ranges than breeders at all breeding population densities. Intrusions by neighbours were more frequent during pre-breeding. These results suggest that an increase in territorial behaviour by resident Jays occurs during the breeding period, probably owing to increased competition over resources important to reproduction.
27669757|The Collared Flycatcher Ficedula albicollis has evolved a song sharply contrasting to that of the Pied Flycatcher F. hypoleuca in their zone of sympatry. Enhanced species specificity seems, however, to have been achieved at the expense of broadcast efficiency. A penetrating, peeping alarm call is more powerful than the different figures of the song phrases. This alarm call seems to supplement the species' song. It is integrated with the song as a prelude and is assumed to function as a long-distance alerting component in the advertising vocalization. The necessary species-specific advertisement by an unpaired nest-hold-defending individual would only be achieved at shorter range by the ordinary song phrases. A conflict in selection pressures might have generated an optimization problem. It is proposed that an adaptive compensation involving a shift in the threshold for alarm call release has facilitated the evolution of divergent character displacement in the song.
10.2307/3676795|We describe and evaluate a simple technique for studying the anatomy of sperm storage in birds by using whole mount preparations of unstained oviductal tissue. Unlike sectioned material, this technique can be used to estimate the number and size of sperm storage tubules (SST) and study the arrangement of stored sperm in situ. Using whole mount preparations, we compared fresh material with that fixed and preserved in either formalin or alcohol for up to 6 months. SSTs and their contents were easily counted and measured using either fresh or formalin preserved material; however, material fixed in formalin shrunk by approximately 12% and size measurements must be corrected if direct comparisons with fresh material are to be made. Tissue fixed in alcohol gave poor visibility and should not be used to preserve specimens. The use of whole mount preparations provides new possibilities for addressing both the evolution of different sperm storage patterns across species and the proximate mechanisms of sperm competition within a species. We recommend that systematic efforts be made to include formalin fixed and preserved oviducts in museum collections.
10.2307/3676596|In Finland, there is a "cyclic" relationship between numbers of birds shot and the abundance of the grouse population. This cyclic pattern rotates clockwise, i.e. opposite to the classical predator-prey cycles predicted by the Lotka-Volterra equations. This means that man kills relatively more grouse during the increasing phase of the grouse cycle than in the decreasing phase. This is a sign of prudent predation. In the late 1970s, however, there may have been some overharvesting of grouse in northern Finland, partly owing to a change in the functional response (increased annual kill per hunter). The shape of the functional response curve in grouse shooting is very often concave, which is not familiar to accepted predator-prey concepts, but which is a logical consequence of the searching image concept. The functional response curve might be concave if the prey species is not particularly important to the predator. In general, not even the relatively high shooting yields in Finland seem to be correlated with population trends of different grouse species.
10.2307/3675879|Analysis of 48 clutches of the Blackbird Turdus merula showed that for clutches laid in April and May intra-clutch weight variation was mainly attributable to a linear increase in egg weight with position in the laying sequence (mean <tex-math>${\rm r}^{2}=0.79\pm 0.23$</tex-math>) whereas egg weight leveled out in clutches laid in June and July (mean <tex-math>${\rm r}^{2}=0.29\pm 0.25$</tex-math>). Neither mean egg weight per clutch nor weight of the first egg was correlated with date of laying. It is proposed that successive egg weight increase within the clutch is an adaptation which moderates the effect of asynchronuous hatching by prolonging the survival of the last hatched young. This mechanism slows down the speed of brood reduction during the first part of the breeding season when food conditions can be expected to improve; the decline of this increase later in the breeding season parallels a corresponding reduction in parental investment in the last hatched young at a time when food resources can be expected to decline. It is further suggested that size differentiation within the brood is affected by the nestlings' begging behavior mainly through its influence on parental feeding frequency.
10.2307/3676341|On the island of Stora Karls, the Baltic Sea, the fledging weight of Guillemot chicks has been found to decrease gradually after the peak of fledging. To find the cause of the decline, we collected data on egg size, chick growth, feeding rate, and fledging age of chicks in pairs breeding at normal time and pairs whose breeding was experimentally delayed by egg removal. Replacement eggs were ca. 6% smaller than first eggs, but no difference in hatching weight was found between normal and late chicks. Nor were any differences found in fledging age and feeding rate between the two categories. Late chicks grew significantly more slowly than normal chicks, and at age 18-21 d, weighed on average only 222 g compared with 256 g for normal chicks. We suggest that a seasonal deterioration in food quality in combination with a decreased availibility of the prey could be responsible for the lower growth rate in late chicks.
10.2307/3676194|Inter and intrasexual variations were found in the time-budgets of Robins Erithacus rubecula. Differences between males and females were most extreme when pairs occupied breeding territories, but were also apparent when both sexes were isolated on exclusive autumn territories. Males with mates that produced at least one clutch of eggs allocated more time to song than bachelor males during the initial months from the start of pair formation. All birds displayed similar responses to low temperatures.
10.2307/3676337|Body temperatures were measured and aspects of behavioural temperature regulation studied in neonate birds of several species brooded in subarctic/arctic areas. The studies were performed during field and laboratory conditions. Subadult body temperatures were found in all chicks in the field and also in the chicks allowed to select ambient temperatures in a thermal gradient box. It is suggested that subadult neonate body temperature in birds is a normal physiological condition connected to a lowered thermoregulatory set-point. The observation that motor coordination was not impaired even at severe hypothermia is suggested to favour survival of the chicks in cold climates.
10.2307/3676019|The nests of the Wood Warbler Phylloscopus sibilatrix are not as insulative as those of the Willow Warbler Ph. trochilus and the Chiffchaff Ph. collybita. The northern limit of the distribution of the Wood Warbler has expanded towards the north in this century, but is still some hundred kilometres further south than those of the Willow Warbler and Chiffchaff. The change of the range of the Wood Warbler correlates well with the change of the 13C June isotherm describing the amelioration of climate in this century. Simultaneous population changes of the Willow Warbler can be explained by habitat changes. The Chiffchaff population has not changed markedly. Differences in the insulation of nests may serve as a contributing causal explanation for these interspecific differences in regional population dynamics.
10.2307/3676629|Spacing, movements and mortality of Willow Grouse Lagopus l. lagopus broods were studied using radio-telemetry during three breeding seasons on a small island in northern Norway. Chicks survived worse during two cold summers with few insects than in a warm summer with many. In cold weather, many died at 3-5 days. Broods selected forests, bogs and fens, and shore vegetation which supported the largest number of insects. Mean differences between years in spacing and brood movements were small. Within years, growth was slower and survival lower among those broods with the greatest mobility and largest home ranges. Broods occupying small home ranges restricted their movements to areas especially rich in insects, whereas longer movements were made in poorer habitats. There appeared to be a dominance hierarchy among broods which effectively prevented them from occupying the same areas.
10.2307/3676521|Metabolic heat production (M) and body temperature ( T<sub> b</sub>) in relation to ambient temperature ( T<sub> a</sub>) were measured in 72 7-9 d old Willow Ptarmigan chicks. M increased linearly with falling T<sub> a</sub> in the 6 to 35C range and can be described by the equation: <tex-math>${\rm M}\ ({\rm W}\cdot {\rm kg}^{-1})=-0.66\ {\rm T}_{{\rm a}}({{}^\circ}{\rm C})+37.4\ ({\rm r}=0.792)$</tex-math>. Upon cold exposure, M rapidly rose to a stable level, which was maintained in spite of a linear decrease in T<sub> b</sub>. The drop in T<sub> b</sub> was similar at all T<sub> a</sub> below 27C when exposure lasted for only 10 min, while the drop in T<sub> b</sub> was significantly higher at 6C compared with 21C when exposure lasted for 30 min. These results indicate that M is chiefly influenced by peripheral thermal inputs, and that Willow Ptarmigan chicks do not utilize their full thermoregulatory capacity to maintain T<sub> b</sub>. Apparently, they do instead use it to restrict body cooling, whereby feeding time will be less dependent on T<sub> a</sub>.
10.2307/3676623|An empirical simulation model of an Avocet population was constructed using a k-factor analysis from 40 years' data. The model was tested with an independent data set and then used to evaluate the effects of manipulating egg loss and chick loss on breeding pair density and productivity. Model predictions of pair density and density of fledged young were similar to observed data. When values for chick loss from an independent population were substituted in the model, predictions of the independent population were also very close. Manipulation of egg loss had little effect on (a) pair density, (b) density of fledged young, and (c) overwinter loss. Manipulation of chick loss had a large effect on pair density until 1969 when overwinter loss changed from being weakly density dependent to being almost perfectly density dependent. From 1970 onwards manipulation of chick loss had little effect on pair density. Manipulation of chick loss had a large effect on the density of fledged young and on overwinter loss for the 40 year period. The model suggests that the decline in the number of young fledged per pair observed on the study site was due largely to the increase in chick loss over the period. Density dependent egg loss played no role. The management implications of the model are that breeding populations cannot be increased significantly by manipulation to reduce either egg loss or chick loss. Management to increase chick survival would, however, increase productivity thereby creating a cohort of dispersers which could colonise other sites - an important conservation objective. The role and importance of immigration and emigration should be investigated by a comprehensive marking study over a long time period.
10.2307/3676288|The recapture distributions of nine species of passerines, particularly Erithacus rubecula and Phylloscopus trochilus, were used to estimate time constants for the rate of emigration, to analyse whether day migration occurred, and to study possible interspecific and inter- and intraseasonal differences. The recapture distributions approximately followed a negative exponential distribution, but a good fitness was observed only in a few cases. The deviations were systematic and probably due to mixing of several populations with different time constants. Within the same species, resting time was shorter in spring than in autumn and, at least in P. trochilus, shorter in late than early spring. Late species rested a shorter time than early species in spring. Environmental factors such as lack of food, crowding, and interspecific competition are supposed to reduce resting time, but internal factors also seem to govern it.
10.2307/3676069|Cocks of Red Grouse Lagopus lagopus scoticus Lath. in Ireland at low density showed spacing behaviour only briefly at dawn and dusk, in light too poor for observers to see them. Density was correlated with this period's duration, and with the frequency of calls, sexual chases, and boundary encounters. Mated cocks called more than unmated cocks. On a fertilized area where density increased, crowing ranges were smaller, spacing behaviour lasted longer, and cocks and hens called more. Cocks did most calling on ground with much heather Calluna vulgaris L. (Hull), the main food. On August dawns, some young cocks defended temporary crowing ranges, rejoining the broods before daylight. The number of crowing ranges changed between August and spring, along with changes in density.
10.2307/3676218|A nest-box experiment was carried out in rich subalpine birch forests, Swedish Lapland. During a six-year period the passerine bird density in an area (23 hectares) with a surplus of nest-boxes was compared with the density in a control area (29 hectares) without boxes. A large number of the nest-boxes were occupied by one species, the Pied Flycatcher, increasing the bird density in the nest-box area by about 75 per cent. This immigration of the flycatcher did not cause a demonstrable change in the population numbers of the other species. The year to year fluctuations of the flycatcher numbers were in accord with the fluctuations of the other species taken together in the same area and also with the fluctuations of the bird numbers in the control area. The result of this investigation is compared with that of a similar experiment in Southern Sweden.
10.2307/3676109|Since 1963 Willow Tits - considered to be extremely stationary in Sweden - have been observed almost annually on autumn migration at the Hammar Bird Station, near Karlstad, Sweden (59 N). Conspicuous culminations occurred from late September to early October in 1963, 1969, and 1970. A mass movement was recorded in late August 1972, and the species was a common migrant during the autumn. Ringing and recaptures showed that only a few birds stayed for any longer period in or near the study area. Two long-distance recoveries (450 km W and 150 km SW) were made from a total of 1101 ringed tits. Many flocks consisted of 10-20 birds and the largest of about 50 birds. Compared to many other migrating passerines, the majority of the Willow Tits normally passed through the area rather late in the day.
27669752|Nomadism in Tengmalm's owl was studied on the basis of Finnish ring recoveries. Natal dispersal was more extensive than breeding dispersal and more extensive among females than among males. The latter trend was found also in breeding dispersal: females, which are larger and adapted to preying on cyclically fluctuating voles, change their breeding areas more readily than males, which are smaller and can hunt alternative prey. Finnish owls seem to be more nomadic than those breeding in Central Europe. This is in agreement with the prediction that nomadism is favoured by long intervals between years suitable for reproduction.
10.2307/3676065|The sizes of breeding populations of Anatidae, their distribution patterns, habitat requirements, annual fluctuations etc. in the northernmost parts of Finland, Norway and Sweden were studied in 1972-1976 using aerial survey methods. In 1972 a pilot study was undertaken in the Swedish mountain chain. Then, in 1973, the field personnel of the three countries were trained in a camp at Inari in Finland, where final methods for the study were worked out at the start of the 1973 field season. The study area covers Sweden north of 65, and Finland north of 64. In Norway, due to topographical difficulties, only areas north of 68were included. The study area covers <tex-math>$66200\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> in Norway, <tex-math>$130300\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> in Sweden and <tex-math>$137000\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> in Finland; in total <tex-math>$333500\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>. The surveys were undertaken in squares of 5  5km laid out in the diagonals of the 100  100 km squares of the UTM system extending from the Norwegian coast to the eastern border of Finland or to the southern limit of the study area. In the alpine parts extra transects were laid out between the main transects to obtain 10% coverage, whereas coverage in southern parts was 5%. In coastal Norway 1  1 km squares were used because of topographical difficulties (great altitudal differences over short distances). Northern Fennoscandia was divided into 17 regions for this study, borders between regions following state borders and natural borders. In the main area four-seated Cessna aircrafts were used, whereas coastal Norway was surveyed using a two-seated Super Cub. Total flying time was 412 h (57 h on methodological flights, 355 h on survey flights). The surveys were undertaken in late May or in June soon after the break up of ice. In Sweden there were difficulties to choose the right period because of large differences between woodland and mountain areas. The efficiency of aerial surveys were tested by comparisons between aerial surveys and simultaneous ground counts in small areas, such studies being undertaken in several different regions. The efficiency varied from 13.0% in Anas crecca to 100% for Cygnus cygnus. Dabbling ducks in general had much lower efficiency than diving ducks. Anser fabalis was not cencused. Habitat data were obtained from topographic maps and from geological survey maps. During the flights photographs were taken on representative lake types in the squares and additional data were recorded. All waterfowl observations were recorded on tape in the following categories for each species: single pairs, single drakes or females, males in flocks, other flocks. Each group was recorded separately. Criteria for breeding pairs were: pair, males single or in groups of 2-5 and in some cases lone females (Bucephala clangula in late surveys). Water covers 7.2 (3.4-16.5)% of the different regions. Lakes are mostly small and a large proportion of the total water area is taken up by small ponds and small lakes. Only few 5  5 km squares were entirely devoid of lakes and ponds. In the mountaineous parts lakes are mostly oligotrophic whereas a large proportion of the lakes in the woodland regions and in the northern subalpine peneplanes are dystrophic due to the high proportion of mires in these areas (up to 70% in some districts). Eutrophic features on the other hand are restricted and only of local importance. In the southernmost parts of the area in Sweden and Finland 7.5 and 11.8% of the shore lines were vegetated. Some special study areas were surveyed annually in 1972-1975. Great local variations in waterfowl populations were found, these being related to weather conditions and especially the break up of ice. Considering the entire area studied annual fluctuations were small. The total breeding population of Anatidae was estimated to be 155610 pairs, about 68000 pairs each were found in Finland and Sweden, whereas 20500 pairs were estimated for the part of Norway included in the survey. The populations of the different species were: Anas platyrhynchos 19270 pairs, A. crecca 25000, A. querquedula 120, Anas penelope 21000, A. acuta 3600, A. clypeata 160, Aythya marila 1160, A. fuligula 25530, Bucephala clangula 26730, Clangula hyemalis 3430, Melanitta nigra 2750, M. fusca 1400 Mergus serrator 10600, M. merganser 6630, M. albellus 280 and Cygnus cygnus 769 pairs (about 30% breeding with nest). Total regional waterfowl densities varied between 15.8 and 87.2 pairs per 100 km<sup>2</sup>. In alpine regions densities were generally below 20 pairs per 100 km<sup>2</sup>. Otherwise no clear trends were found. Waterfowl densities per water area varied between 1.4 and 23.7 pairs km<sup>-2</sup> for the different regions. The composition of the waterfowl communities was closely related to the vegetation. The waterfowl communities of the alpine plus subalpine regions differed markedly from the communities of the woodland regions. Differences were also found between northern and southern parts of the study area. In the alpine zones diving ducks dominated markedly, whereas dabbling ducks were more common in the boreal zones. The waterfowl communities of different habitat types were compared. Moreover waterfowl densities were studied in relation to different habitat variables such as configuration of wetland, altitude, main vegetation type, extent of shore vegetation, extent of mires in the squares etc. The diversity of waterfowl communities was studied (Shannon-Weaver index), and the highest values were found for northernmost Finland. The populations in northern Fennoscandia are so scattered that it is impossible to pick out any area of major importance for the maintenance of species populations. In Cygnus cygnus, however, two mire complexes (one in Finland and one in Sweden) were found to include about 10% of the entire breeding population of northern Fennoscandia. The estimated breeding populations of waterfowl in northern Fennoscandia constituted between 1.3 and 35% of the estimated winter populations of northwest Europe according to the midwinter counts of the IWRB. The highest figures were recorded for Anas crecca (35%) and Bucephala clangula (31%) and the lowest for Anas platyrhynchos (2.5%) and Aythya marila (1.3%). Finally the impact of various forms of exploitation on the breeding waterfowl populations in northern Fennoscandia was discussed. The plans for extensive drainage of mires might impose a serious threat to the populations of some species. Moreover dam constructions for hydroelectrical purposes is of importance for the waterfowl.
10.2307/3676502|Foraging site differences between the sexes and breeding success of 10 pairs of Common Treecreeper were studied in mixed coniferous forest in Central Finland. The Treecreeper is a bark-foraging species in which intersexual niche differentiation and dimorphism have often been observed. The habitat variables studied were: relative foraging height (vertical dimension); structural foraging site (trunk or other part of tree); diameter of tree trunk; and tree species. The females visited spruce significantly more frequently (72% of the records) than the males (52%) and usually foraged higher up than the males. We found a negative correlation between wing length and foraging height in spruce, but body weight did not correlate with any habitat variables. For tree species the degree of overlap in foraging niche utilization within breeding pairs was 77% and the combined overlap in tree species use and foraging height was 51%. The observed intersexual niche differentiation is interpreted as a consequence of sexual dimorphism caused by sexual selection. It has been suggested that feeding efficiency and reproductive success could be maximized by sexual segregation of the foraging niche. However, we found no evidence for this.
10.2307/3676278|A total of 1,118 nesting female Common Eiders Somateria mollissima dresseri were banded on islands in the St. Lawrence estuary, Quebec, between 1963 and 1972. Analysis of band recovery data and field observations revealed: 1) The wintering grounds, which extend along the Atlantic coast from southern Nova Scotia to Massachusetts, are reached by some birds along a coastal route around the Gaspe and Cape Breton, and by others along a direct overland route. The coastal route is approximately 2,250 km while the direct overland one is only 640 km. 2) Recaptures of nesters banded in previous years indicate that almost all females return to breed on the same island, many to the same general area of that island and some to the actual nest basin. 3) The average annual mortality rate of adult females is estimated to be 17.4  9.9%; most mortality can be attributed to predation and disease to which the females are subjected during the breeding season.
10.2307/3676890|We examined the frequency of bigyny among Tengmalm's Owls in nest boxes, and the breeding success of males and females of different mating status. In two vole peak years 9% and 14%, respectively, of the males trapped were bigynous. On average bigynous males reared more fledglings and monogamous ones (7.8 vs 4.2 in 1982 and 9.5 vs 5.1 in 1984). All bigynous males breeding more than one year were site tenacious and tended to produce more fledglings when bigynous than other bigynous males (8.8 vs 7.3 in 1982 and 10.8 vs 8.7 in 1984). Primary females laid more eggs than monogamous females breeding at the same time. Because of lower nestling survival secondary females produced fewer fledglings than did primary females (2.8 vs 5.1 in 1982 and 3.3 vs 6.2 in 1984) and monogamous females. In total, individual bigynous males did not bring more prey to their primary and secondary females than did monogamous males to their mates. During the laying period they fed secondary and primary females equally well but tended to favour the primary ones later on. Evidence of polyterritorial behaviour is in line with the "deception" hypothesis.
10.2307/3676136|This study was carried out to determine whether experienced ornitohologists could replace each other in a census programme using the territory mapping technique. We studied the variation between different observers carrying out a 10-visit mapping census in the same plot and in the same period of time. The test was repeated in two consecutive seasons in a plot with about 50 territorial males. The coefficient of variation for the total counts of territories was 14 and 10% respectively in the two seasons. The variation between the observers decreased with increasing sample size in good agreement with the theoretical expectation. Consequently, it could be concluded that census data obtained from different observers were comparable, at least so long as the process of species map evaluation did not introduce any additional variation.
10.2307/3676233|With the degree of ossification of skulls as a reference, it was found that Goldcrests with elements of yellow near the tip inside their mandibles were juveniles. Since the yellow colour disappears before the skull is completely ossified, it cannot be stated generally that specimens without traces of yellow are adults. The material suggests, however, that nearly all specimens from the period July-September having a uniform black colour inside their mandibles, are adults. It was also shown that all birds with a yellow and orange crest were males and all birds with only yellow crest were females.
10.2307/3675997|Stonechats breeding in heathland built nests in ground vegetation of four types. Bracken and purple moor-grass leaves grew suddenly in mid-season, after which breeding success significantly increased for nests under these plants. Heather and gorse did not change dramatically in structure, and there were no changes in breeding success. Bracken was used progressively less after the start of leaf growth, despite improved success in terms of the number of young fledged. One possible counteracting effect was that peak nestling weights in bracken nests did not increase after leaf growth, whereas they increased significantly over the same period in heather and gorse nests.
10.2307/3676473|The feeding areas of 15 Willow Grouse Lagopus l. lagopus broods on a small island in northern Norway are described. By the time of hatching the cock stops defending the territory and accompanies the hen and chicks. Some broods leave the parents former territory quickly while others may stay there for as long as a month after hatching, but this does not influence chick mortality. The Willow Grouse territory apparently does not function to secure food for the chicks.
10.2307/3676299|Most of the published comparisons, based on Britich Common Birds Census data, between population levels in two consecutive years have been for single species. But it is also of interest to consider multi-species comparisons for the census plots. In this paper a simple but useful means of displaying graphically appropriate summary statistics of the census data is presented, based on the estimated numbers of bird pairs found on the census plots, and the numbers of species represented by them. A Procrustes rotation is then used as the basis of a method for detecting those census plots, if such exist, whose community structure has changed or stabilised between a pair of consecutive years in a manner differing markedly from the general pattern of stability or changes on the other plots. The methods are illustrated using data from Common Birds Census farmland plots, but they do have more general application. Some possible alternative approaches to analysing the data are also discussed.
10.2307/3676540|Movements of White-crowned Sparrow Zonotrichia leucophrys oriantha fledglings in relation to their nest sites were measured for 37 broods on a large subalpine meadow, Tioga Pass Meadow (TPM). Broods were split between the parents upon fledging and the resulting family subunits appeared to move independently. Three weeks after fledging and about when young were becoming independent, family subunits were located a mean distance of 200 m from their nests. Additional data on movements of independent juveniles were obtained from a trapline on TPM in which we captured individuals originally banded in their nests either at TPM (locals) or at other sites (nonlocals) up to 5 km away from TPM but within the same watershed. Although some siblings traveled together at least until fall migration, considerable dissolution of families occurred at 35 to 40 days of age. At that same age, nonlocal juveniles began to appear in the TPM trapline. First captures of known age nonlocals of both sexes from within a 5 km radius of TPM peaked at age 50-55 days. The majority of nonlocals were probably more than 60 days of age upon arrival at TPM, however, and we assumed that they probably had also traveled more than 5 km from their natal sites. We hypothesize that young migratory birds may disperse in order to find favorable staging areas and/or to become acquainted with an array of local landmarks that could provide important information for their subsequent navigational and homing abilities. Selection of the next year's breeding site could also occur during postfledging dispersal. If it occurs, the habitat imprinting or site selection process must differ somewhat between males and females. The more time juvenile males spent on TPM the more likely they were to return there as adults. Of those known to be on TPM for 30 days or more, the return rate was 28.6%. Philopatric tendencies were considerably less in females. About 10% of those trapped as juveniles returned later as adults regardless of the number of days they had spent on TPM as juveniles.
10.2307/3676086|Egg-covering behaviour of the White-fronted Plover Charadrius marginatus was observed under disturbed and undisturbed conditions. White-fromted Plovers covered their eggs with sand when forced by an approaching human to interrupt incubation and leave their nests. Egg-covering was not normally carried out before other breaks in incubation. The bird's foot movements in covering the eggs were similar to those made briefly prior to settling to incubate. The similarity between egg-covering and settling behaviour suggested the former to be a displaced and exaggerated form of settling, brought about by a conflict of drives to incubate and escape from approaching potential predators. Such behaviour would have survival value in concealing the eggs.
10.2307/3676733|Thermal consequences of microhabitat selection during daily activity were quantified for male Phainopeplas Phainopepla nitens breeding during (1) spring in the Sonoran Desert, (2) summer in semiarid woodlands with mild, ocean-moderated climates, and (3) summer in semiarid woodlands isolated from ocean moderation. The interior woodland was markedly hotter during the Phainopepla's breeding season than were the other two habitats; for example, maximum air temperature averaged 39.7C in the interior woodland and 28-29C in the other two areas. Microhabitat selection was similar in the Sonoran Desert and the coastal woodland, but differed substantially between these locations and the interior woodland. Use of sites exposed to direct sunlight was reduced 56% in the interior woodland compared to the coastal location. This reflects reduced use of exposed perches with a resultant increase in use of shaded sites within vegetation which significantly lowers operative environmental temperatures experienced by birds in the interior woodland. Thus, site selection reduces by two-thirds the amount of time the animal experiences environmental temperatures above its upper critical temperature of 43C. Avoidance of exposed sites by birds breeding in the interior woodland may interfere with vital activities such as foraging and territorial advertisement.
10.2307/3675945|Territorial behaviour of Mute Swans during the parental period was studied in a marine habitat with a dense breeding and non-breeding population. It was found that territorial males rarely behaved aggressively, but neighbours frequently performed a peculiar display at their common border: Being close together in the threat posture each of the birds rotated on the spot for periods of several minutes without showing signs of attack or escape. Film analysis shows that rotation is repeated turning towards and away from the opponent, and that long-lasting synchronisation is brought about by alternating responses of the opponents. The display probably evolved from a pendulum fight. It has the potentials of non-violent border-regulating behaviour and advertising behaviour. It probably communicates the position of territories to potential intruders and the position of the border to the families of both males. It is suggested that a non-violent defence strategy including frequent use of rotation displays is favoured by a number of factors related to the habitat and the structure of the local population.
10.2307/3675941|Biometric information was obtained from 13000 Herring Gulls Larus argentatus caught and ringed in northern England and southern Scotland outside the breeding season between 1978 and 1983. Morphological differences between males and females and between British and Scandinavian Herring Gulls have been used to identify both the sex and race of the birds. We describe the wintering distribution of the Scandinavian birds in Britain, their age and sex ratios and their time of arrival in and departure from Britain. Scandinavian Herring Gulls start to arrive in Britain in small numbers in September. The proportion of Scandinavian birds increases to a peak in December-January and the birds depart abruptly in late January or early February. Very few Scandinavian Gulls penetrate to the west side of Britain, while on the east side there is considerable regional variation in the proportion of Scandinavian birds. Between 70% and 80% of the adult Scandinavian birds examined were female. The proportion of adults amongst Scandinavian birds was much higher than amongst British birds.
10.2307/3675888|In 23 Lapwing territories in southern Sweden, the arrival dates and the dates of laying the first egg of the clutch were established, the diet of the birds was examined, and the abundance of lumbricids was measured. Lumbricids were the dominant food resource of the Lapwings. The length of the pre-laying period was highly and negatively correlated with the abundance of lumbricids (p < 0.001), but the date of arrival in the territories was not significantly correlated with this food factor.
10.2307/3676796|The effect of wind on dispersal directions of 21 young Spanish Imperial Eagles Aquila adalberti that were equipped with radio-transmitters at the end of their nestling period from 1986 to 1988 in Doana National Park (southwestern Spain), was analyzed. Two preferential directions were found. Except for winds blowing towards the sea, which is visible from the natal population, the distribution of first departures was coincident with the wind directions on the dates of departure. There was no trend among siblings towards dispersing in the same direction. Subsequent departures by young eagles from the natal population were always in the same direction as their first departure and were not influenced by wind direction. These results suggest that environmental factors, more than inheritance, determine individual differences in the use of particular dispersal areas, and that these differences may persist throughout life.
10.2307/3676388|A total of 10, 650 Purple Sandpipers were counted on small islands and skerries off the outer coast of Troms and 953 were counted on 220 km of fjord coastline. The total wintering population in the study area was estimated at about 18,000. Seven samples of Purple Sandpipers were cannon-netted during early November 1988. There were differences in age and sex structure between localities. The overall bias towards males (60%) was believed to be due to the females being elsewhere rather than caused by greater mortality among females. Adult birds were heavier than first-year birds and Norwegian birds were heavier than Scottish birds. Of adult males 31% and of females 10% were still moulting primaries in November. Site fidelity within and between winters was recorded. The population is thought to be composed of birds which breed in the U.S.S.R.
10.2307/3676756|At the beginning of their rho (nocturnal) periods well fed White-crowned Sparrows Zonotrichia leucophrys gambelii acclimated to a T<sub> a</sub> of 12C and a photoperiod of L:D 12:12, were placed individually in a darkened metabolism chamber and exposed overnight to temperature of -10C. Telemetered body temperatures ( T<sub> b</sub>) indicated that these birds reduced their T<sub> b</sub> by 3-6C and experienced an average reduction of 18% in their oxygen consumption (<tex-math>$\dot{{\rm V}}_{{\rm o}_{2}}$</tex-math>) compared with normothermic birds exposed to the same conditions. There was no significant difference in average body weight of normothermic and hypothermic birds prior to and after overnight exposure to -10C, with weight loss being on average 2.4 g. This shallow hypothermia was independent of the available energy reserves in that these birds were well fed prior to testing.
10.2307/3676179|Jackdaws Corvus monedula roosting in the town of rebro, Central Sweden, were studied from autumn 1956 to autumn 1961. Roosting occurred from mid-summer to March/April. Six distinct flight lines were used. The highest total, about 7,000 birds, was recorded in mid-winter. Maximum travelling distance was 35 km. Flights to the roost took place much earlier in relation to sunset in summer than in winter. In mid-winter up to 15 per cent of the day-time was spent flying to and from the roost. Persistent persecution had only temporary effect. A breeding-time roost outside rebro was used from March/April to July. Hypotheses regarding the adaptive significance of communal roosting and of roosting in town centres are discussed.
10.2307/3675959|Food niches of the Long-eared Owl Asio otus and the Tawny Owl Strix aluco were compared. The niche of the Tawny Owl was about three times wider than that of the Long-eared Owl. Both species, however, utilized about the same number of prey categories. When in the same area, the Tawny Owl took more water voles, birds, and amphibians and less field voles than did the Long-eared Owl. Food overlap between the two species was lower for neighbouring than for non-neighbouring owls. This strongly indicates that the species compete for food. Mean prey weights for the two owl species were positively correlated in different seasons, and were either equal for both owls, or higher for the Tawny Owl, during every season of the year. Reproductive output of Long-eared Owls increased with their distance from Tawny Owls' nests. This pattern is suggested to be caused by food competition. The opposite was found for the reproductive output of Tawny Owls. This seems to be the opposite of the prediction if competition is occurring, but could be caused by the fact that the Long-eared Owl is more likely to settle in a Tawny Owl territory in a year when this contains relatively abundant prey, than in a year when it does not. Therefore, an effect on the Tawny Owl would not be possible to demonstrate in this analysis. However, the competition seems to be asymmetrical.
10.2307/3676126|We use the modified Hill's ration <tex-math>$({\rm N}_{2}-1)/({\rm N}_{1}-1)$</tex-math> as an evenness index, since it is independent of the number of species in a sample. Contrary to some hypotheses and earlier results, evenness was rather constant throughout the year in Finland. If the sample is small many rare species are excluded, and evenness is overestimated. Outside the breeding season the clumping of individuals in the most dominant species (flocking instead of territoriality) counteracts this bias, and small samples of equally many individuals give higher evenness in the breeding period than in other seasons. However, within a representative sample for a particular habitat type in a large area, territoriality versus flocking may not greatly affect evenness. The hypothesis of lower evenness in unpredictable and rigorous environments should be tested by comparing different areas rather than the same area at different seasons. Using the proportions of energy consumption of different species rather than numbers of individuals yields a better picture of the consumer roles of species in a community, and led to higher evenness values in this case, since body-size and abundance were negatively correlated.
10.2307/3676891|A bioenergetics-based budget which predicts net total Hg loss during the period of autumn moult was calculated for adult Bonaparte's Gulls in the southwestern Bay of Fundy, Canada. Daily food consumption and, hence, ingestion of Hg measured in prey samples, was calculated from estimated energy requirements during the period of moult. The amount of Hg eliminated was estimated from analyses of Hg content in excreta and feathers. Elimination of Hg via the feathers accounted for 68% of the total loss from the body in females and 59% in males during the period of autumn moult. Actual loss from the body over time was estimated as the difference between measured maximum (premoult) and minimum (postmoult) body burden of total Hg. The measured net Hg loss from the body during the period of autumn moult was 23% lower than the predicted value for females and 49% higher than the predicted value for males. The negative and positive deviations of measured Hg losses from the predicted values for the separate sexes averaged out to within 6% of the predicted value when the sexes were pooled.
10.2307/3676227|The diurnal migration of passerine birds over South Sweden was studied using simultaneous radar and field observations during the autumns 1971 to 1973. Main movements were directed either towards SSW or towards SE/SSE. Radar and visible migration consisted of different bird categories flying at high and low altitudes, respectively. Radar migration was most intensive under NE winds, while visible departures from promontories over the sea were associated with headwinds (SE to W). Visible movements along the east and west coasts took place under offshore winds, while inland visible migration was uncorrelated with wind direction. Compensation for wind drift was achieved, but wind still affected flight directions: radar track directions shifted away from, and visible track directions into, the wind direction.
10.2307/3676640|Three experiments suggest that a prepubertal period exists in European Starlings Sturnus vulgaris before they reach full body size at 3 weeks of age. (1) Castrated male nestling Starlings were reared on short days, long days, or long days initially and transferred to short days at 2, 3, 6 or 9.5 weeks of age. The increase in plasma LH concentration signalling the acquisition of photosensitivity began at 7 weeks of age in young on short days or transferred to short days at 2 or 3 weeks of age. In young transferred to short days at 3, 6 or 9.5 weeks of age, the increase began 4 weeks after transfer irrespective of age. Thus daylength before 3 weeks of age had no effect on the subsequent rate of acquisition of photosensitivity. However, birds raised on constant short days did not moult, whereas birds transferred to short days at 3 weeks did begin to moult. So birds do appear to be able to distinguish short and long days before 3 weeks. (2) In nestlings thyroidectomized at 4 days of age, testicular growth began later than in birds thyroidectomized at 8 days. Yet birds thyroidectomized at 8 days did not moult, unlike birds thyroidectomized at 4 days and intact birds. Presumably earlier thyroidectomy further extended the prepubertal period during which birds were unable to respond to short days. (3) Birds thyroidectomized as nestlings showed no change in testicular size in response to change in daylength when 8 months old.
10.2307/3676852|This paper describes the influence of diet on intestinal length of the bulbul Pycnonotus leucogenys. Monthly samples of birds were collected and intestinal length and main food items recorded. The diet varied seasonally with plant material (mainly fruit) dominating in winter and insects in summer. In winter birds had longer intestines than in summer. Since changes in intestine length did not correlate with changes in body weight it seems that birds with a high content of plant material in their diet had longer intestines, and this result is discussed in relation to a theory of optimal digestion.
10.2307/3676706|We examined the relationship between egg mass and clutch size for five species of waterfowl. None showed decreasing egg mass with increasing clutch size. Brant Branta bernicla nigricans laid slightly heavier eggs in larger, rather than smaller clutches. These results were contrary to predictions of the hypothesis that egg production limits clutch size in waterfowl. Clutch size declined with later laying, both within years and between years. The intra-seasonal rates of clutch size decline were similar among years for each species, but were not similar for three species of geese nesting at the same site in Alaska, U.S.A. Egg mass did not vary with laying date, nor did egg mass vary with year, except in Brant. Trumpeter Swans Cygnus buccinator in Alaska laid larger eggs but not larger clutches than swans in Montana, U.S.A. Intra-clutch egg mass variation accounted for 17-37% of the total variation in egg mass. Intra-clutch variation in egg mass was independent of clutch size, except in Emperor Geese, Chen canagica.
10.2307/3676863|The breeding performance of Blue-eyed shags of known age (up to 12 yr old) was studied on Signy Island, South Orkney Islands for three seasons. Mate change between seasons was high (77.3%), was unaffected by the age of either partner, and was unrelated to prior or subsequent breeding success. Pairs nesting in the centre of the colony experienced greater social contact, poorer access to their nests, but less exposure to wind and high seas. The degree of social contact with neighbouring nests increased with the age of the male. Average clutch sizes were of 2.31-2.84 eggs, and in one season declined with laying date. The proportion of eggs which hatched also declined with laying date, by 1.5% wk<sup>-1</sup>. Chick survival (to fledging) was higher in broods hatched in the first third of the season (88.2%) than in the last third (75.2%), and late-laying females fledged 0.64-0.66 fewer chicks on average. Some 19% of the variation in laying dates could be explained by individual consistency between seasons. In contrast to many long-lived species, there was no relationship between female age and laying date. Average clutch sizes increased after 10 yr. Eggs laid by 10-12 yr olds were 15% smaller than those of 4-9 yr olds, as were chick hatching-weights. The mean number of chicks hatched and fledged per pair increased between three and five years of age, but showed no significant change thereafter.
10.2307/3676040|In the male Pied Flycatcher maximum body weight was detected during spring migration. A significant decrease was noticed during the pre-nesting period. A second significant decrease in body weight occurred between the incubation period and the nestling period. The body weight of the female Pied Flycatcher reached a maximum during the egg-laying period. No decrease occurred during the incubation period, but there was a significant drop around the hatching time. For both sexes, the spleen weight and the spleen-somatic index (SSI) increased after the birds arrived in Sweden. These variables continued to increase between the nest-building and the egg-laying periods and remained high for the remainder of the breeding season. There was a transitory increase in haematocrit levels in males during the nest-building and egg-laying periods, while in females a transitory decrease was found during the egg-laying period. The highest liver weights were recorded in males during the nestling period and in females during the egg-laying period. For both sexes liver-somatic index (LSI) was lowest in spring migrants and highest in birds from the nestling period.
10.2307/3676602|Changes in breeding numbers in many grouse populations appear to depend largely on the production and survival of juveniles. Breeding success may be influenced by many factors. It is important to understand these factors so that wildlife and conservation biologists have tools suitable for increasing reproductive success in endangered populations or for producing a surplus for shooting. One of these factors is predation. In this paper, we summarize discussions at the workshop "Management implications of nest and brood predation". Our report does not aim to provide a comprehensive review of the literature, but is based on the experience and ideas of researchers attending the symposium.
10.2307/3676620|Male arrival and female mate choice are documented for a montane Spanish population of Pied Flycatchers. Early arriving males were older and defended a higher number of nestboxes than males arriving later. A first analysis of female mate choice in the entire population detected significant differences between mated and unmated males only in their respective arrival dates. This type of analysis may be unrealistic, owing to the operation of female searching costs. A second test based on the between-year dispersal tendencies of adult females and their presumed mating 'decisions' revealed a central role of site-tenacity in female choice, with variation in a secondary sexual character, the male's white patch in the forehead, also being important for pairing success.
10.2307/3676803|Averaged over the whole breeding cycle (pre-laying through mid-chick stage), breeding fulmars spent about 39% of their time at the breeding site and 61% of their time at sea. Annual means of site occupancy before egg-laying were positively correlated with breeding success, suggesting that time allocation was a sensitive indicator of food availability in different years. Nonbreeding site-holders spent about half as much time at the colony as breeders; their attendance was highest early in the season when pair bonds and site ownership were established. The attendance of failed birds after egg or chick loss was positively correlated with colony-wide breeding success in six years. Males spent more time at the breeding site than females at every stage of the season. Most days were devoted to foraging in the pre-laying period (69% in males, 82% in females). An extended absence from the colony just before laying (the pre-laying exodus) averaged 12.2 d in males and 17.6 d in females. Changes in body weight indicated that neither sex incurred an energy deficit on a seasonal basis. A greater investment by the male in site attendance during incubation offset the female's investment in egg production and assured that both sexes entered the demanding chick-feeding stage in good condition.
10.2307/3676152|The rhythm of incubation in Mountain White-crowned Sparrows developed gradually during the egg laying period and a consistent pattern began with laying of the penultimate egg. Behaviors of incubating females were highly flexible and adaptable to conditions at the nest. During environmental fluctuations females partitioned their activity to provide adequate time for foraging while maintaining egg temperature (<tex-math>${\rm T}_{\text{egg}}$</tex-math>) within "normal" limits. Abilities of embryos to withstand low and oscillating temperatures allowed females to forage during the coldest hours of the day. Both air temperature ( T<sub> a</sub>) and exposure of the nest to direct sun influenced the daily rhythm of incubation activities. Mean duration of periods on and off the nest increased with increasing T<sub> a</sub>. In some individuals, however, length of periods off decreased with increasing T<sub> a</sub>, especially when nests were exposed to sun. Females remained on the nest at such times to prevent heating of embryos to lethal temperatures. There are indications that the onset and cessation of daily incubation activity is cued by photoperiod or light intensity.
10.2307/3676763|In autumn, adult Wilson's Phalaropes congregate at Mono Lake, California, and other hypersaline lakes in the Great Basin of the western United States, where they moult and stage before migrating to South America. In 32-40 days some adults replace the entire body plumage, the rectrices, and several primaries. This phase of the moult, which is accomplished more quickly than in other waders, is facilitated by the abundant invertebrate resources in Mono Lake and probably by the prevailing warm temperatures. Primaries are moulted and replaced singly, insuring that the wing surface will be nearly intact whenever the birds accumulate sufficient fat to begin their non-stop migration to South America. The prebasic moult is resumed on the wintering grounds and is completed in January, when the prealternate moult of the rectrices commences. The Wood Sandpiper is the only other wader for which a moult migration has been demonstrated convincingly.
10.2307/3676642|This paper describes the appearance of GnRH-like immunoreactivity in the brain of adult and posthatching Ring Doves and Great Tits, with the goal of understanding the ontogeny of the gonadal-pituitary axis. To this end, we compared the distribution of GnRH immunostaining in adults, with that of posthatching birds of each species. The results of the adult study indicate the presence of a major group of GnRH immunoreactive perikarya in olfactory bulb, olfactory tubercle, nucleus accumbens, septal-preoptic-hypothalamic region, in the area surrounding the palial commissure, lateral hypothalamus, tuberal hypothalamus (Great Tit only) and near oculomotor nuclei nIII and nIV. Overall, these results are in good agreement with previous studies of GnRH-like immunoreactivity in other avain species, with some variations, most notably in the hypothalamic region. A surprising finding of the posthatching material was the absence of GnRH-like immunoreactive neurons and fibers in the septal-preoptic-hypothalamic region in the early days following hatching. The number and size of GnRH-containing neurons increased steadily in the post-hatching period from days 4-21. Also noteworthy was the absence of immunoreactive fibers in the median eminence and tuberal hypothalamic region before day 21 posthatching, suggesting that the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis may not be mature before this time in the altricial and semialtricial species studied here.
10.2307/3676712|Individual song rates for territorial Willow Warbler males were monitored. The song rate means varied between males but did not differ much from day to day. After monitoring, the males were captured and removed and new males could establish in the empty territories. Song rates of the replacement males were then monitored. Territories that originally had been occupied by males with high song rates now became occupied by males who also got high ranking song rates. The results from the replacement experiments indicate that extrinsic factors connected to the territory are important in determining a male's song rate.
10.2307/3676892|The Garden Warbler is a temperate-zone breeding bird that winters in tropical and southern Africa. To study the effects of internal timing processes and of photoperiodic conditions on the seasonal activities occurring before and after the breeding season, Garden Warblers were exposed from late September to late May to photoperiodic conditions experienced by free-living conspecifics wintering at the northern or the southern edge of the wintering area; i.e. the equator or 20S. Changes in body weight, migratory restlessness and gonadal size as well as the occurrence of molt were investigated. The birds exposed to a constant equatorial photoperiod carried out a complete prenuptial molt after autumn migratory restlessness. Subsequently gonadal development and spring migratory restlessness were initiated. These results indicate that photoperiodic changes are not necessarily required for the direct control of these activities. Photoperiodic conditions do, however, affect the timing of these processes. This was indicated by the performance of the warblers exposed to the 20S photoperiodic simulation under which most of the events investigated occurred earlier than in the birds held in the equatorial photoperiodic simulation. The acceleration was not sufficient, however, to allow a full reproductive cycle during the southern hemisphere summer. In general, the results indicate that these long-distance migrants differ from all-year-round temperate-zone residents with regard to both the significance of endogenous timing factors and the photoperiodic conditions under which refractoriness can be terminated.
10.2307/3676539|Lesser Black-backed Gulls Larus fuscus nesting on Flat Holm Island in 1989 laid significantly smaller clutches than birds nesting in the same colony in the years 1983-86. Provisioning territories with supplementary food (fish) in 1989 during the prelaying period significantly increased clutch size and egg size compared with unfed controls. Similar experiments carried out on nearby Skomer Island in 1988, where egg production by unfed birds was typical of the species in Britain, did not increase clutch or egg size. The results clearly indicate that egg production can be limited by poor food supply during the laying period, but suggest that such food limitation is not a proximate mechanism for the restriction of the normal clutch to three.
10.2307/3676446|A model is presented that concerns how a scatterhoarder should distribute food items taken from an ephemeral, locally abundant source among cache sites scattered throughout its territory, and how such an animal should adjust the way it distributes its caches in response to the presence of previously made caches. The model assumes that such an animal behaves in a manner that maximizes the rate at which recoverable (surviving) food energy is stored. One application of this model concerns how a scatterhoarder should respond when it encounters a food source in the same location as a previously exploited one. Such spatial overlap of food sources through time may be a common occurrence for animals such as Gray Jays Perisoreus canadensis which store thousands of food items throughout their territory during the summer months for use during winter. Under the conditions of the experiment, but not under all theoretical conditions, the model predicts that Gray Jays should space their caches more widely during subsequent encounters with a source at a given location. Consequently, they should take longer to cache a given number of food items, and, because fewer of these caches will survive, the number of recoverable caches made per unit of time spent caching should be reduced. A field experiment using Gray Jays is described. As predicted, jays compensated for the local density of extant caches by transporting food items farther from the source during second encounters with a source in a given location. These results indicate that the jays, at least for the conditions of this experiment, are not forced by a memory constraint to behave in some standard fashion when they encounter a point food source. The theoretical and empirical results begin to show how scatterhoarders, by flexibly adjusting their behavior in response to previously made caches, may approach the maximal rate of storage of recoverable food throughout their territory over the long term.
10.2307/3676237|Dunlins trapped on autumn migration at the Ledskr Bird Station on the east coast of Middle-Sweden were painted with a blue-green dye on their plumages. The painting procedure had no adverse effects on the birds and the dye persisted about 4-6 weeks. As compared with ring recoveries, one per cent more reports of observed painted birds were obtained. Several inland records in south Sweden showed that some Dunlin contingents continue on an inland route from Ledskr across south Scandinavia. The reported observations indicate that migrating contingents from different areas are mixed to a large extent on further passage. Some advantages and disadvantages of the plumage-painting method are shortly discussed.
10.2307/3676240|Data on the clutch-size of the Partridge (Perdix perdix L.) available in both Europe and North America were studied. The mean clutch-size and the largest clutch recorded of the northernmost European Partridge population were higher than those of the more southern populations. The south-north and southwest-northeast trends in the clutch-size of the Partridge were statistically confirmed. Factors contributing to this phenomenon are discussed. It is concluded, in accordance with the theory of Cody, that unstable environments result in increased clutch-size from south to north and from southwest to northeast.
10.2307/3675903|The song-dialect structure of the Redwing Turdus iliacus in a <tex-math>$965\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> area 40 km north of Oslo, Norway, is described, based upon registrations during the years 1971-77. The dialect areas are shown to be small, with sharp boundaries between them. Where two dialect populations come into contact, some males may sing both dialects. The conformity and stereotypy within the dialect area with regard to song pattern is high, and in general, the dialect structure was constant from year to year. Preliminary colour-banding investigations indicate that Redwings to a very small extent cross over to the adjacent dialect area.
10.2307/3676326|We created experimental patches with one, two or three sizes of seeds, and recorded the number of species, and numbers of individuals of each species of birds exploiting the seeds in winter. Bird species diversity increased with seed size diversity. The frequency of visits made by each species of bird to the single-seed plots provided us with a measure of seed-size preference for each species. For example, most Bramblings Fringilla montifringilla were recorded on plots with sunflower seeds (the largest seeds); Tree Sparrows Passer montanus preferred millet, the smallest seeds, and Blackbirds Turdus merula preferred seeds of intermediate size (wheat). Using each species' seed-size preferences we were then able to compute the overlap in seed-size use between species. Dietary overlap was not significantly related to similarity in body-size. Competition between species was assessed by fitting Lotka-Volterra competition equations to species counts on the two- and three-seed plots. Most species-pairs showed no evidence of significant interactions. Of those pairs that did interact significantly, several showed significant mutualistic, not competitive interactions. Both competitive and mutualistic interactions varied with seed diversity. Only two species pairs showed consistent competitive interactions on plots with two seed sizes and on plots with three seed sizes; they were, Blackbird-Greenfinch Carduelis chloris, and Blackbird-Tree Sparrow. We compared our estimates of species' competitive and mutualistic effects on each other with our estimate of dietary overlap. There was no significant relationship between dietary overlap and realised interaction. Our results are briefly discussed in relation to current views on the role of interspecific competition as a force structuring bird communities.
10.2307/3676125|Fifteen sylviid and 9 turdid species inhabited a study site within a Mediterranean scrub in Israel: one yearlong resident species of each family, 1 sylviid and 3 turdid winter residents and 18 transients. Variations in bird abundance followed those of their resources' abundance such that the greatest biomass of Sylviidae occurred in spring, of Turdidae in winter, and the lowest biomass for both occurred in summer. Disparity between spring and autumn in total biomass of both groups associated with similarity between these seasons in each group's diversity, the strong temporal segregation between closely similar species and between migrants and closely similar residents at the time of young-feeding, and the low overall temporal overlap between species in spring, accentuated amongst morphologically similar species and partly resulting from the species' geographical segregation in Africa, all bring about ecological segregation in spring. In autumn resource levels and the site's location with regard to both distance from origin and desert-crossing, make it unattractive to migrants, which are then either spaced out more than in spring or skip the spring-utilized stopover sites.
10.2307/3676456|The density of a population is a quantitative variable with spatial attributes: density is calculated on the basis of the geometric configuration of a selected area on a two-dimensional plane. This means that a density estimate implies a decision as to what is an ecologically realistic configuration for a study area, but errors in determining the appropriate value for A in the D = N/A equation may have serious consequences for the value of D. I illustrate problems created by such decisions with examples taken from breeding bird distributions in fragmented habitats.
10.2307/3676824|Information on the proportion of bridled birds from two colonies at the extreme northern limit of the Guillemot's range are presented: Jan Mayen 28.7%, southwest Greenland 5.5%. There have been no previous counts from these areas. Both values are lower than expected, particularly that for Greenland, and possible explanations are presented.
10.2307/3676842|The breeding success of Puffins Fratercula arctica, and the quality and quantity of food brought to their chicks were studied at 12 colonies along the coast of Norway in 1980-1983. In the north and south of the country, breeding success was good while, prior to 1983, it was poor or a total failure at colonies in the central region. Evidence which suggests a direct relationship between the level of Herring Clupea harengus stocks and the breeding success of Puffins at the latter colonies is presented.
10.2307/3676666|Thyroidectomised male Starlings were injected with thyroxine (50 g per bird) or with control solution and maintained under long (18L:6D) or short (8L:16D) day-lengths. Thyroxine stimulated normal long day responses (an increase in plasma follicle-stimulating hormone, FSH, followed by a decrease in FSH, gonadal regression, reduction in hypothalamic content of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone, LHRH, and an increase in plasma prolactin and in plumage moult) under 18L:6D. Thyroxine replacement thus restored the photorefractory condition which is abolished by thyroidectomy. None of these responses was seen in controls nor in birds injected under 8L:16D. A high dose of thyroxine administered in the drinking water (<tex-math>$50\ {\rm mg}\ {\rm l}^{-1}$</tex-math> for 54 d) caused rapid testicular growth followed by regression in intact male Starlings maintained under 11L:13D (and a rise in plasma prolactin) whilst control birds showed gradual gonadal maturation during the same period (and prolactin levels remained low). The thyroxine-treated birds remained reproductively regressed after withdrawal of exogenous thyroxine and exposure to 18L:6D, confirming the establishment of a photorefractory condition.
10.2307/3676352|Bewick's Swans at a newly established wintering site were identified individually from 1963-64, both within a season and from one season to the next, through (a) bill markings and (b) leg rings readable in the field. The daily registers of the swans present from 1968-69 to 1975-76 were analysed for correlations with weather conditions. For both arrivals and departures wind direction was vital, tail winds being preferred, followed by calm, then side winds, with head winds generally being avoided. Speeds of the prevailing winds (S to W) were not significantly correlated with arrivals and departures. Arrivals were associated with colder, departures with warmer, weather, and rainfall was less during periods of major movement. The state of the moon was only of marginal importance. The proportions of the prevailing winds correlated each winter with numbers of swan units, proportions of swans missing a winter, temporary absences, and numbers of swan unit-days. The effects of weather on site usage should be taken into account when evaluating refuges, and when estimating population sizes.
10.2307/3676077|The time of spring migration of the Chaffinch Fringilla coelebs and the Brambling F. montifringilla were studied in northern Finland (6457N, 2658E) during 1967-1973. The first Chaffinches arrived usually in April and the first Bramblings in late April or early May. The migratory period of the Chaffinch occurred clearly earlier than that of the Brambling. In northern Finland, several proximate factors markedly modified the progress of the migration. The arrival time of the Chaffinch and the Brambling were different, but, nevertheless, the mean egg-laying period of both the finches started at the same time. Chaffinches, as a southern species, arrived well before the beginning of nesting, but to the familiar area. Bramblings, as a northern species, came only a few days before nesting and they reacted to environmental circumstances varying their breeding grounds from year to year.
10.2307/3676523|Weather conditions (amount of precipitation and ambient temperature) during the nestling period were found to affect the dimensions at fledging of several morphological characters of nestling Hooded Crows. Morphological characters that develop rapidly over a relatively short period were more sensitive to weather conditions than those that develop gradually throughout the nestling period. The effect of wheather conditions on nestling growth is thought to be mainly a result of a decrease in food supply during periods of wet and cold weather. The annual differences noted in the size of nestling Hooded Crows may be explicable in terms of differences in the weather conditions that prevailed during the nestling period.
10.2307/3676834|Out of 6459 ringed Pied Flycatcher nestlings that fledged, 68 (38 males and 30 females) were retrapped when breeding in the study area in later years. Thirteen of the males were retrapped as 1 yr old vs 20 of the females; most of the remaining birds were first retrapped when 2 yr old. A higher proportion of the males (3.3%) than the females (1.3%) were faithful to their natal area. The breeding sites of those birds (of both sexes) that returned were randomly distributed within the study area. The tendency of the offspring to return to their natal area seemed to be independent of the degree of site fidelity shown by their parents. Only about 25% of the returning males and 60% of the females seemed to breed when 1 yr old.
10.2307/3676532|Breeding season testes size of House Sparrows Passer domesticus was significantly positively correlated with badge size, which is a signal of dominance status, and negatively correlated with date.
10.2307/3676235|From analyses of mercury in the liver of urban and rural Wood Pigeons shot in 1964 and 1967 in south-western Scania, Sweden, the following conclusions can be drawn. Firstly, the mercury concentration in the liver dropped sharply from 1964 to 1967. Secondly, an apparently higher mercury concentration was found in rural than in urban Wood Pigeons and, thirdly, there were considerably higher mercury concentrations in spring than in autumn.
10.2307/3676393|The repeatabilities of laying dates (0.03) and clutch sizes (0.15) of individual female Tengmalm's Owls Aegolius funereus breeding in different years were positive and those of males negative (-0.21 and-0.11), but they did not differ significantly from zero. This suggests that there may be slight heritable variation in the clutch size of females, but none in their laying dates and in the breeding characters of males. Between-year shifts in laying dates of individual females averaged 7.3  20.6 d (maximum 72 d) and in mates of individual males 12.9  26.5 d (81 d). The corresponding figures for clutch size were 0.4  2.0 (4) eggs for females and 0.2  1.9 (5) eggs for males. The "flexible" adjustment of breeding characters to the prevailing food supply is adaptive, as owls that inherited a trait to lay small clutches cannot benefit from good vole years, whereas owls laying only large clutches cannot breed in poor vole years.
10.2307/3676702|The relationship between juvenile and adult survival rates on the one hand and body weight on the other was studied in European birds, using data from natural populations. Adult survival rate was generally higher than juvenile survival rate and both increased with body weight. Life expectancy sometimes differed, however, between species of comparable size. The positive relationship between adult survival rate and body weight remained also when differences between genera, families and orders were examined. However, the form of the relationship differed between orders. In Anseriformes body weight explained a higher proportion of the differences in adult survival rate than in Passeriformes and Charadriiformes.
10.2307/3676867|The post hatching movements of Willow Ptarmigan broods hatched within the sub-alpine region were studied in 1979-83. Parents with their broods always left the breeding territory in the first week after hatching, indicating that securing a feeding area for the chicks is not the main function of the territory in this species. Brood movements differed in altitudinal range between years; in phenologically early years most broods moved uphill, in late years they remained at lower elevations. This is interpreted as a selection by the ptarmigan of areas of highest nutritive value of the food plants.
10.2307/3676358|The aim of the present study was to test the "Incubation limit" hypothesis; this states that the probability of hatching decreases when the number of eggs in a clutch increases above a certain limit. The results of this study indicate that experimentally-enlarged Fieldfare Turdus pilaris clutches had a relatively lower hatching success than natural-sized ones. The experimental clutches were 1.56 larger than natural clutches. This resulted in a 8% reduction in the relative hatching success for this experimental group compared with natural-sized clutches. Increasing the natural clutch size seems to have a negative effect on the relative hatching success of the Fieldfare in two ways: (1) eggs remaining unhatched, and (2) eggs becoming broken due to wear and tear during the incubation period. The results of this study therefore support the "Incubation limit" hypothesis. This hypothesis is also discussed in relation to the question whether brood parasites remove one or more host eggs in order to increase the hatching probability of the parasite's own egg.
10.2307/3676618|Investigations on Shelduck with broods on the Ythan estuary (Aberdeenshire, Scotland) showed that, among any neighbouring pairs, one pair was dominant over the other. Dominant pairs occupied larger exclusive areas (non-overlapping zones) than subordinate pairs at high density, irrespective of the order of their arrival on the mudflats. Subordinate pairs could become increasingly restricted in their spatial activities and, in some cases, were eventually completely excluded from a particular area. The behaviour of dominant pairs may limit the number of broods and the breeding output of the Ythan shelduck population.
10.2307/3676367|In Central and Eastern Europe most breeding male Pied Flycatchers Ficedula hypoleuca have a brown, female-like plumage colour, whereas northern and southern populations are darker. Recent studies in a dark population have demonstrated the importance of sexual dimorphism in plumage colour for sex recognition; female-like males are treated as females. In the present study I tested whether male Pied Flycatchers have evolved an improved ability to discriminate between the sexes in an area where flycatchers show little sexual dimorphism in plumage colour. I found that resident, male Pied Flycatchers responded with courtship display to a caged, female-like male, as if the caged intruder was a visiting female. This result demonstrates that sex recognition by visual cues is imperfect in the Pied Flycatcher. Possible adaptive explanations for the evolution of light-coloured populations of Pied Flycatchers are discussed.
10.2307/3675918|Common Gulls were found breeding in three Arctic Skua colonies on mountain heath at Varanger, N. Norway. Gull nests on the heath were significantly smaller and contained less material than nests in a nearby colony on an island, the usual type of gull colony site. We suggest that both the association with skuas and the reduction of nest material in heath-breeding gulls are adaptations which reduce nest predation.
10.2307/3676742|The hypothesis that the frequency of predation by pine marten Martes martes on nests of Tengmalm's Owl Aegolius funereus rises with cavity age as a result of long-term spatial memory of the predator predicts that relocation of nest boxes should lower the frequency of predation. Prior to a microtine rodent population peak I relocated a randomly assigned half of a population of 12 year-old nest boxes. Prior to the next microtine peak I reversed the experiment by relocating the control boxes. In both cases, predation on Tengmalm's Owl nests was reduced in the relocated boxes and unchanged in the unmoved ones. To test if this predation pattern is mimicked in artificial nests, I relocated the experimental boxes once more two years after the first relocation, and used the two intermediate microtine low years, when no Tengmalm's Owl nested. Predation on artificial nests was lower in relocated boxes, but not in unmoved boxes, compared with predation on Tengmalm's Owl nests in the same boxes before the first relocation. However, whereas predation was lower in relocated than in unmoved boxes for Tengmalm's Owl nests (22% vs 83%), this was not so for artificial nests (54% vs 58%). This shows that the results of experiments using artificial nests to reveal patterns of nest predation in tree cavities should be interpreted with caution.
10.2307/3676704|The development of sexual size dimorphism in 10 body components of Capercaillie Tetrao urogallus was studied from hatching up to the age of about 100 d. The size dimorphism of most body components developed in parallel with that of the whole bird, but there were two exceptions. Male chicks had disproportionately small breast muscles and large legs. These deviations from the probably more original and more optimal development of females together with the faster growth of males are interpreted as being disadvantageous, because male chicks with their smaller breast muscles may be poor flyers and their ability to escape predators may be inferior. The small breast muscles of young males are supposed to be an energetic trade-off of the disproportionately large legs and the rapid growth of male chicks. These differences are probably at least partly responsible for the higher mortality rate of male chicks.
10.2307/3676723|The average plumage colour of the head and back of male Pied Flycatchers varies geographically. Light-coloured males live in sympatry, dark-coloured males in allo-patry with the Collared Flycatcher. Because the two species of flycatcher compete for nesting holes, inter-specific aggression may have been a selective agent behind the evolution of light-coloured male Pied Flycatchers. Experiments with stuffed dummies of male Pied Flycatchers showed that male Collared Flycatchers were more aggressive towards a black dummy than towards a light-coloured one. Light-coloured male Pied Flycatchers may avoid attacks by male Collared Flycatchers either because they appear less threatening to the Collared Flycatcher in the competition for nest-holes (i.e. inter-specific status signalling) or because they closely resemble female Collared Flycatchers (i.e. inter-specific female mimicry).
10.2307/3676189|Monthly waterfowl counts on selected waters during (August) September to April have been undertaken in South Sweden during 1959/60-1974/75 with the exception of 1965/66. Various methodological aspects of monthly waterfowl counts are discussed. Indices based on monthly counts and indices based on country-wide midwinter counts showed the same trends even if individual years showed deviations. It is concluded that midwinter counts are as good a measure of long-term changes in the non-breeding populations of species wintering in the country as monthly counts are. Increasing trends were found in Anas crecca, Aythya fuligula, and Cygnus olor (also increasing midwinter indices). Cygnus olor showed a decrease after the hard 1969/70 winter followed by an increase. Hitherto, the Swedish waterfowl counts have not revealed any decreases in resting and wintering populations; some populations have increased, whereas most species have fluctuated around a steady level.
10.2307/3676789|Results of a long-term study of the Willow Tit Parus montanus population in the birch region at Venabu, Ringebu (6139N, 1008E) in Central Norway, are presented. After fledging, the juvenile Willow Tits were dependent on their parents for another 2-3 weeks. During that period, they developed their vocabulary, which was nearly complete before independence. The syntax and ontogeny of eight main vocalizations (including the song) are described and illustrated by spectrograms. Non-aggressive calls developed before those with an aggressive content, the latter being postponed to the end of the period of parental dependence, or immediately thereafter. This pattern is probably adaptive. For comparison, also the corresponding adult vocalizations are described and illustrated by spectrograms. Besides the main sounds, a special pure-tone note, which evidently is restricted to the Willow Tits at Venabu and maintained in the deme by learning, is described. It is suggested that subsong has an important function in the process of vocal development.
10.2307/3676853|Parent Little Auks took about equal share in incubation. The frequency of change-overs corresponded to the attandance pattern at the colony. Mean chick feeding rate was 5.2 loads d<sup>-1</sup> but was significantly lower during the fledging period. Diurnal feeding rhythm was similar to attendence pattern at the colony but was the reverse of daily changes in food availability. We suggest that Little Auks feed chicks when maximum number of birds are present at the colony, thus reducing predation by Glaucous Gulls. This assumes that food is relatively easy to find at all times of the day in this period.
10.2307/3676267|The time distribution of spring vocal activity in a Ural Owl population was studied from 1974 to 1978. Vocal activity increased from early spring until the time for the young to leave the nest, and most vocalizations were associated with intra-pair relations such as prey delivery. Territorial hooting was uncommon. During the egg-laying phase the male presented the female with prey. This behaviour was accompanied by a vocal duet. Courtship feeding is suggested to increase the female's capacity to produce eggs. Vocal activity was also a function of vole density, and auditory census techniques will give underestimates of variable magnitude of the true population size.
10.2307/3676162|Creche behaviour by the young of the Common Eider is described at the breeding colony on the Sands of Forvie, Scotland. Individually marked breeding females and marked broods were used to determine the association which occured within creches. Females attending creches had all recently completed incubation and remained, on average, only 4 days with the young. The chicks fed on Hydrobia, Corophium, and Littorina found on the mudflats, whereas the adults fed mainly on Mytilus and Carcinus which were spatially separated from the mudflats. It is argued that creching has evolved in Eiders where the parent females have to leave their young in order to feed and recover body weight lost during incubation. The role of the 'guard-females' in this situation appears mainly to be that of detecting aerial predators such as gulls or crows.
10.2307/3676028|A technique is described for the quantification of pigmentation intensities in birds' plumages. The data obtained may be used for statistical analysis of intraspecific variation. An application of the procedure to a series of South Swedish Common Buzzards is described, and a scheme suitable for classifying Buzzard plumage types in the field is suggested.
10.2307/3676017|When given a choice of heather of the same age but different chemical composition, captive Red Grouse in poor body condition preferred to eat plants containing more nitrogen and phosphorus, but not calcium, whereas birds in good condition showed no such preference. When given a choice of different ages of heather at the same height at different times of year, grouse in poor condition ate more of the young, more nutritious, heather than did those in good condition, at all seasons; all birds preferred young heather in spring. This confirms the importance of physiological state of the bird, and chemical composition of the heather, in determining choice. Selection for N and P (not Ca) from heather by wild Red Grouse were correlated negatively with mean weights of heather particles eaten and with total weights of crop contents (which were assumed to reflect feeding rates). Grouse thus tended to be more selective for N and P when they ate smaller particles and fed slowly. In autumn and winter, wild grouse selected more for N and P, and less for Ca, in the morning and afternoon than in the evening, but there was no difference with time of day in spring. In spring, selection for N and P were lower in the morning and afternoon, and greater in the evening, than in autumn and winter. Seasonal and diurnal variation in selection for nutrients was associated with variation in feeding rates (as indicated by weights of crop contents) and in weights of heather particles eaten.
27669754|Reproductive investment involves both mating effort and parental effort. Trivers first suggested that in most monogamous species the female's investment in the young is somewhat greater than the males'. Yet field data documenting parental effort of either sex are generally lacking. I examined some aspects of parental effort in Herring Gulls to test the hypothesis that reproductive success, measured as number of young reaching 30 d of age, was higher in pairs with equitable distribution of effort. When all males were compared with all females there were no significant differences in the amount of time each sex incubated and the time each was present on the territory when not incubating, but males engaged significantly more in aggression and also fed chicks more than did females. Individual pairs that fledged two or three young had a more equitable distribution of incubation time, time on territory when not incubating, feeding rates, and aggression rates than pairs that fledged zero or one young. Further, pairs in which the males incubated a higher proportion of the time than females had significantly higher fledging successes.
10.2307/3675966|A small (0.75 g) telemetry transmitter was implanted into the intraperitoneal cavity of a free-living Great Tit Parus major. Deep body temperature was monitored during egg-laying and incubation. The body temperature showed a diel rhythm, being about 3 C higher during daytime than nighttime. Oviposition caused a transient temperature peak. The observed fluctuations in body temperature in relation to respiratory rate and egg temperature, indicate that the female adjusted her heat transfer to the eggs by regulating her metabolic heat production and the blood flow to the brood patch.
10.2307/3676816|The plumage colour of the head and back of the male Pied Flycatcher Ficedula hypoleuca varies from a female-like brown to pure black, and the mean colour of a population varies geographically, with lighter coloured populations found in Central Europe and darker populations in Fennoscandia. In dark populations the blacker males are significantly larger than the brown males, while in light populations there is no significant size dimorphism between brown and black males. Brown males probably survive better than black males, irrespective of the population they belong to, because they have a higher return rate. The tendency of light populations to have higher rates of polygyny among the males than dark populations is insignificant. Two different hypotheses are proposed to explain the adaptive significance of this geographical variation in plumage colouration: (1) The predation rate varies geographically and affects colouration; this is unlikely, however. (2) The overlap in Central Europe with a sympatric species, the Collared Flycatcher Ficedula albicollis has led to selection for lighter colour of the Pied Flycatcher populations there. This seems to provide a reliable explanation, but the present results did not indicate which of the three sub-hypotheses (a) Female choice of the right species, (b) Fighting Ability, or (c) Interspecific Female Mimicry provides the best explanation for this variation. These alternatives need to be further investigated.
10.2307/3676226|Mller, H. S. Danish salt-marsh communities of breeding birds in relation to area are given. The dominance, the species diversity (H), and the equitability (J) have been calculated from samples taken at four stages of botanical successions according to different types of management. A lower diversity was found in the most advanced and undisturbed botanical succession compared to the preceding one. This is mainly due to a gradual decline and disappearance of breeding waders, gulls, and terns during a botanical succession, which is documented by nest counts performed 1931-1973. Measures for practical utilization of the land are proposed.
10.2307/3676262|Colour-ringed Fulmars caught as breeders were observed during their attendance at the colony between October and May. Their breeding performance was determined for comparison with winter behaviour. The first birds arrived on land in late October. Thereafter, numbers varied erratically, high numbers being associated with low wind speeds. Overall, neither sex preceded the other to land, but males were always more numerous than females and attended more frequently. Nest-sites were defended throughout the winter by their owners, but there was no evidence of strong intraspecific competition for sites. Fulmars always won in competition with Herring Gulls. Individuals did not range far from their nest-sites when on land. Most associations involved mated pairs. Many of the birds present in winter (between 18% and 50% of the total population) were not local breeders. No significant relationships were revealed between winter behaviour of marked individuals and their previous or subsequent breeding performance.
10.2307/3676056|In a study of the territory fidelity of the Corncrake, 239 singing males were ringed in eight drained swamps on the island of Gotland in the Baltic between 1965 and 1973. A total of 25 birds were recovered in the study area after one or two years. The homing rate varied considerably from year to year. It was in the range of 20-35% in years with high population density, very much lower in other years. In low density years a high proportion of the recovered birds were at least two years old, while in high density years most recoveries were of birds ringed in the previous year. It seems that the study area carries a small and fairly constant number of old, possibly breeding, birds with high territory constancy, and a very fluctuating number of young birds which neither breed nor return the next year.
10.2307/3676455|During the winter of 1985/86, territorial cocks were removed from a Willow Ptarmigan population in Central Norway and the effects on breeding density and quality of replacement cocks were studied in the following spring. The removal of territorial cocks did not lead to a reduced breeding density relative to a control area, and all suitable ground was occupied. Young cocks comprised a higher proportion of replacement than of resident cocks. Resident cocks had significantly longer wings than replacement cocks, but physical condition, reproductive status, mating success and time of breeding were similar. The results indicate that territorial behaviour limited the breeding density of cocks on the study area.
10.2307/3676105|Seasonal song diagrams are given for more than 20 species in forest areas in South Norway, based on 700 surveys 1968-74. Song activity was closely related to breeding cycle; double peaks were common. Maxima were reached a few days prior to egg-laying. Song activity could therefore also be used to analyse proximate timing factors for breeding. Correlations were found with temperature, snow-melt and phenophases of birch and two invertebrates, being very high in 'early' bird species. Multiple regression analysis indicated that the song peak for Fringilla coelebs was advanced when the spruce cone crop was rich; termination of song activity in summer was positively correlated with start of laying in spring and tended to occur later in warm and wet weather. The hypothesis that the breeding times of birds show smaller displacements than do the environmental phenophases is supported.
10.2307/3676183|Egg-laying by the Great Tit was closely related to spring temperature. The effective temperature periods became shorter and later with progressive northern latitude and seemed to coincide with a certain phenological stage of the environment. For the Pied Flycatcher, egg-laying was only weakly correlated with spring temperature and environmental phenology, and nesting took place earlier, in relation to development stage, in late springs and with increasing latitude and altitude of the habitat. Therefore, the interval between egg-laying in the two species was shorter in years and areas with delayed spring seasons. This may influence interspecific competition.
10.2307/3676680|Young Magpies left the nest when about 33 d old, independent of sex, body size, and brood size, but nest-leaving was positively correlated with the age differences within the brood. Fledglings were observed searching for food on the ground for the first time when about 45 d old, females about three days earlier than males (ns). The young stayed together until that age, but gradually became more independent of their parents. When about 80 d old, some of the young joined flocks of juveniles, whereas others remained solitary. The flocking behaviour seemed to be independent of sex, but those joining flocks were significantly heavier when 24 d old than those remaining alone. Smaller nestlings tended to suffer a higher rate of post-fledging mortality than larger ones. Post-fledging survival seemed to be independent of sex, brood size, age at fledging, and age differences between the fledglings.
10.2307/3676772|Aspects of the breeding biology of a southern (58N) and northern (71N) population of Calidris pusilla were compared and related to climatic difference between the two areas. Snow melt was later and summer temperatures lower in the more northerly area. These harsher weather conditions may have influenced breeding biology, since birds in the more southerly area seemed under less strict energetic regimes, and bred at higher densities and earlier ages than those in the north. Nevertheless, peak nest initiation occurred on the same date in both areas.
10.2307/3675890|Waterfowl movements in and around southern Scandinavia during the winter 1972/73 were studied by radar filming. Movements took place in all directions, invariably under tailwind conditions. Precipitation, or possibly cloud cover, inhibited movements, whereas temperature influenced frequency of movements only during periods when the frequency and intensity of movements were low. Fog did not influence activity at all. The general effect was that the birds moved from colder to warmer areas. Their behaviour seems ecologically highly advantageous; the birds move out well in advance of ice formation and low temperatures leading to high food requirements that may be difficult or impossible to satisfy.
10.2307/3676130|A population of 200 Common Loons Gavia immer nesting on a little-disturbed oligotrophic lake in northeastern Saskatchewan was studied from 1973 to 1975. The reproductive success, causes of nesting failure, pollutant content and shell thickness of eggs were reported and compared. Forty-six percent of pairs attempting to breed successfully raised young in any one year; a mean of 0.73 young were fledged per nesting pair. Thirty-eight percent of all eggs hatched. Predators, unexplained disappearance and inundation were the major causes of egg loss. Eggs contained significant levels of DDE, Dieldrin, PCBs and mercury; however no statistical relationship to reproductive performance was found. Shell thickness was inversely correlated, shell density directly correlated with DDE content. The mean shell thickness was identical to the pre-1947 mean although the variance was greater and some shells were 23% thinner. Altered shell density was interpreted as evidence of structural abnormalities. About 47 ppm DDE are necessary to induce 20% shell thinning in this species, but its large pore area may make it more sensitive to pollutant-induced alterations.
10.2307/3676667|Breeding and moult cycles were investigated in pairs of European Kestrels Falco tinnunculus exposed to four different photoperiods (LD regimes of 17.5:6.5, 15:9, 13:11, and 8:16). Laying, incubation and feeding of the young occurred in all four photoperiods, with all birds moulting after the breeding season. The time until the first egg, the duration of the period during which first clutches were laid, and the time until birds began to moult, were all negatively correlated with daylength. Two groups of birds (LD 13:11 and 8:16) were held under constant conditions for 4.5 and 2 yr, respectively. After the first breeding/moult cycle, the LD 13:11 group did not begin a second cycle for the next 19 months, and only started laying again, and subsequently moulting, after exposure to an 8 h day for 6 weeks. The LD 8:16 group went through two breeding/moult cycles during the two years. It is concluded that the development and expression of photorefractoriness is related to daylength, and that photorefractory Kestrels need short days to become photosensitive again. The possibility that the development photorefractoriness is involved in the seasonal decrease in clutch size, found in both free-living and captive breeding Kestrels, is discussed.
10.2307/3676114|Two sets of bird census data, one of them concerning a relatively rich bird fauna (20 species, 183 pairs) and the other a poor one (6 species, 54 pairs) were utilized as a basis for 60 'random censuses' made at efficiencies of 30, 60, and 75%. The following indices were calculated: 1) the number of pairs, 2) the number of species, 3) the information-theoretical diversity indices known as the Brillouin (H) and the Shannon-Weaver index (H), 4) a modification (B) of Simpson's index, and 5) evenness indices of two kinds, one of them (J) based on comparison with maximal diversity, and the other on comparison with MacArthur's 'broken stick model'. H seemed wholly independent of census efficiency, as well as B and J. The inherent variation due to sampling error was narrowest in the information-theoretical diversity indices and in J. Censuses based on one visit only could be effectively utilized with the aid of H and J.
10.2307/3676330|A pair of Black-casqued Hornbills and a pair of Great Hornbills in captivity closed their nest-hole in the same way, both mates plastering up the hole, so that only a slit was left. The female worked from the inside, and the male from the outside. The female did most of the work. The material was brought to her by the male. When building, the birds kept the material in the tip of their bill, and made rapid sideways vibrating movements of their bills.
10.2307/3676178|The importance of food for temporal and spatial variations in the non-breeding occurrence of Goldeneyes in the Swedish west coast archipelago was studied 1962-1972. Abundance and composition of available food were found to regulate the selection of feeding grounds. As a consequence of food competition in winter quarters, the Goldeneye may have adopted smaller food items than some other diving ducks. Comparisons are made with Goldeneye feeding habits in the less saline Baltic, where Mytilus grounds are of greater importance but seeds from subaquatic plants of lesser importance than on the Swedish west coast.
10.2307/3676200|In the years 1960-1979 more than 2.5 million birds were ringed in Sweden. For 34 selected passerine species the annual ringing totals were analysed. The ringing numbers indicated longterm trends of increase or decrease in about one fourth of the species treated. Species with a clearly increasing trend are Acrocephalus scirpaceus, Hippolais icterina and Carpodacus erythrinus. A decreasing trend was obvious in Delichon urbica, Phoenicurus phoenicurus, Muscicapa striata, Carduelis cannabina and Anthus pratensis.
10.2307/3676478|The breeding ecology of the Common Eider was studied in an archipelago off S. Sweden in 1972-74. Females showed two different strategies when selecting nest sites. Those who started breeding earliest (mainly experienced females) selected islands containing colonies of Herring Gulls, while later breeding females mainly selected islands with colonies of Common Gulls. Both strategies are assumed to be adaptations to the nest predation pattern that characterizes the area at the onset of the breeding period. Eider nests located within a colony of Herring Gulls survived better than those in the outskirts of the colony. Since the Herring Gull prefers open breeding habitats, less concealed Eider nests were most successful. On islands with colonies of Common Gulls and on those with few or no breeding gulls, nests with a great amount of shelter survived best. The Eiders, especially those with larger clutches, were able to breed successfully in the presence of a stationary mink, whereas nest survival was very low on islands visited by mink only occasionally. The yearly number of young hatched was about the same during the three years despite varying nest predation rates. This suggests that compensating mechanisms act to regulate the production of young. The greater vulnerability of young females' nests may serve as a buffer which mitigates the predation pressure on the nests of old females.
10.2307/3675976|The behaviour of male Great Snipe Capella media at a lek in southern Norway was studied in early July 1978. The males used a stereotyped display whose vocal and visual components enhance the conspicuousness of the diaplaying bird. Males face toward the lek centre when displaying, suggesting that the display is directed at other males rather than females. Cloud cover reduces display rates in the middle of the night. Agonistic interactions are described. The course of these interactions gives tentative support to the suggestion that they are used for assessment of body condition.
10.2307/3675962|Kleptoparasitism of Coots by Gadwalls was recorded at a southern Spanish lagoon during a year of low water level, but not in previous years, when water levels were higher. Female Gadwalls parasitized Coots more frequently than did males. Once the Coot surfaced, the Gadwalls waited a few seconds before starting to parasitize, which could serve to prevent eliciting an aggressive response from the Coot. The time that the Coots spent feeding on the water surface was similar irrespective of whether agonistic interactions were or were not involved, but the time period elapsing since the Coots stopped feeding until the next dive was longer when they responded aggressively. No apparent advantage in terms of food intake resulted for parasitic Gadwalls relative to birds feeding conventionally. The food intake of these ducks decreased when parasitizing more than one Coot. Parasitized Coots dived for food more often than unattended ones, hence compensating for the decrease of food intake caused by Gadwalls. It is hypothesized that kleptoparasitism occurred because of low quality of available food resulting from decreased water levels. Some social aspects of kleptoparasitism are discussed. A lack of aggressiveness by coots toward kleptoparasites has been reported by most authors, an observation contrasting with the aggressive habits characteristic of these species. A simple model is presented to explain this seeming paradox.
10.2307/3676249|Clutch size and the number of young, 8 d old, were determined for 23 individually ringed females of the Willow Warbler Phylloscopus trochilus in a study plot in the subalpine birch forest (550 m a.s.l.) at Ammarns (66N), Swedish Lapland. Predation caused loss of nests and eggs for 17 of the females. Eleven of them laid a replacement clutch. Two of the latter laid a second replacement clutch after a second exposure of predation. Size of first clutches was 6.4 eggs compared with 5.2 eggs of replacement clutches. The average production of young was 1.3 in first clutches compared with 2.6 with both first and replacement clutches included. The study shows that the Willow Warbler is normally ready to replace lost clutches also at this high latitude and altitude, at least before hatching, delaying breeding up to two weeks. However, it is also shown, by argument, that the length of the breeding season does not allow two successful broods to be raised before the time of adult moult in late July and the decline of invertebrate food in August.
10.2307/3676489|The song of the Scarlet Rosefinch was studied during a 3-year period. The song was short (about 1 s) consisting of 4-7 syllables and could easily be categorized into song types. Each song type was distinct and a male with a particular song type did not generally change song type during a season, but occasionally between seasons. Each song type was sung by one or several males. Males singing the same song type differed only in small details (e.g. length of strophe or mean frequency), but not in number or order of syllables. Males sharing song types clustered microgeographically, thus producing song-neighbourhoods. Males not present in previous years were found singing song types sung in earlier years by other males, which suggests that at least some males exhibit between-year copying. The fact that males can shift song types at adult age both between seasons and within a season suggests that song learning is open-ended and is involved in a social strategy. I suggest that song neighbourhoods and dialects are best interpreted in terms of ecology and social environment, rather than in terms of timing of song learning. The similar ecology and recent geographical expansion of the Scarlet Rosefinch and the congeneric Housefinch Carpodacus mexicanus have apparently not resulted in similar singing behaviour in the two species.
10.2307/3676674|The diurnal weight cycle of five species of tits (Parus montanus, P. palustris, P. major, P. caeruleus and P. ater) was studied in Norway. The daily weight increase (DWI) tended to rise to a maximum in mid-winter and thereafter decline. The hourly weight increase (HWI) showed a marked seasonal fluctuation and was about twice as high in mid-winter as in autumn and spring. Generally HWI was highest in the morning, but tended to vary with rank order during mid-winter, i. e. being highest in the dominants. A relatively high evening weight was followed by a large nightly weight decrease, and vice versa. Thus the nightly metabolism seems to be adjusted according to the evening weight, as previously shown in captive Willow Tits. It is suggested that hypothermia during sleep is a trade-off between energy reserves and predation risk. The air temperature apparently had only a negligible effect on the weight fluctuations, perhaps because of the relatively mild winters during the study period.
10.2307/3676276|Predation by Glaucous Gulls on Eiders nesting on an island in Spitsbergen when undisturbed by humans is described. The success and frequency of predation was greatest on nests with hatched young, 24 per cent of hatched ducklings being taken. Losses away from the nest were very low. The presence of 'aunts' had no apparent anti-predatory effect. Frequent absences from the nest by incubating Eiders were recorded. High losses of eggs and ducklings in the nest are compared and contrasted with high losses on the water in Scotland. It is argued that differences in nest density, ground cover, and creche behaviour accounted for the different levels of predation, and that predator pressure was concentrated at the stage when eggs or ducklings were most vulnerable and dense.
10.2307/3675999|Intra- and interspecific aggression of sandpipers in mixed flocks in the autumn migration at the Vistula mouth was studied in northern Poland. It was shown that Dunlin intraspecific aggression in some microhabitats increases only to a certain level; at very high density it tends to decrease. The stimulus checking aggression is the display of patterns on tail and rump at aggressive encounters. Species preferring similar feeding sites were found to have similar tails and rumps patterns. I suggest that the patterns have the function of visible signal stimuli, comprehensible for various wader species, because their aggressive behaviour is similar and ritualized. The suggestion was tested on mixed sandpipers flocks. Aggression between Curlew Sandpiper and Dunlin (i.e. species of different patterns on tails and rumps) was found to be more intense than that between species of the same patterns, i.e. Dunlin, Sanderling and Little Stint. Also, it was found that aggression of Curlew Sandpiper was weakly suppressed by species of dissimilar patterns. In this interpretation, the aggression suppression mechanism seems to be a universal mechanism allowing for better coexistence in mixed flocks. The significance of aggression suppression is discussed as a factor favouring optimalization of feeding and limiting pressure of predators.
10.2307/3675971|The vocal communication and associated behaviour of 19 mated pairs of breeding Rocks were recorded during three consecutive breeding seasons in a rookery at Trondheim, Norway. More than 20 different calls were recognized and described with regard to contextual appearance. The most common sound was the single caw, which was uttered in a variety of situation. Most calls were uttered when pairs were in close contact, suggesting that calls have particular importance in strengthening and maintaining the pairbonds.
10.2307/3676895|The begging behaviour of nestlings and feeding response of parents were studied in six Pied Flycatcher broods in an unmanipulated sequence followed by an experiment where nestlings were moderately food deprived. The parents almost exclusively fed the nestlings closest to them, but also begging intensity influenced a nestling's probability of receiving food. Probably because of the relatively slight weight spread among the nestlings, no difference in begging behaviour according to weight could be detected. In the experiment, heavier nestlings were, on average, significantly closer to the optimal position than in the natural situation. The nestlings tried to remain in the optimal position and had better chances to obtain two feeds in sequence during the experimental than during the unmanipulated period. Females tended to distribute food less evenly than males and to favour light nestlings; hence there may be a potential for parents to counteract sibling competition leading to an asymmetry of food allocation. However, this tendency was not observed during the experiment. A trade-off may therefore exist between the amount of time that can be spent identifying particular nestlings to feed and other activities.
10.2307/3676036|The growth of 29 Black-browed and 46 Grey-headed Albatross chicks was studied for 95 d after hatching at Bird Island, South Georgia. A family of sigmoid curves was explored to find suitable forms for describing the growth of these species and the parameters were estimated and compared by appropriate statistical techniques. The growth curves of both species were of the same form although Black-browed Albatross chicks grew faster and attained a higher maximum weight than Grey-headed Albatross chicks. The rate of development of the wings in both species was related to increase in weight but the relationship was different in each species. These differences in growth, together with dietary differences, may influence the breeding pattern of these two species.
10.2307/3675889|The relationship between chemical composition and in vitro digestibility of dry matter was studied in some foods of the Rock Ptarmigan in Iceland. A regression equation, which predicted digestibility from the content of nitrogen, soluble carbohydrate and crude fibre in the foods accounted for 0.80 of the observed variability. This proportion was not increased by including crude fat and ash as extra variables. Ptarmigan usually preferred the more digestible foods in winter.
10.2307/3676460|Barrow's Goldeneye Bucephala islandica have a multi-stage territorial system, defending distinct pair, brood, and winter territories. Only paired birds defend winter territories and their territorial behaviour is similar to that observed on the breeding areas. Breeding pair territories averaged 0.44 ha (range: 0.05-1.85 ha) whereas brood territories averaged 0.91 ha (range: 0.27-2.79 ha). Breeding pair territories were not centered around the females but had well defined boundaries and were defended even when the female was absent. Removal of two pairs suggests that territory size was determined mostly by pair density as territories expanded after the removals. Breeding pair and brood territories averaged approximately 0.35 km from the nest site (range: 0-2.9 km). Broods usually settled on the lake closest to the nest site. Philopatry to breeding pair and brood territories was strong. I suggest that the main advantage of spring and winter pair territoriality may be in providing an exclusive and undisturbed feeding area for the female. Similarly brood territories provide an exclusive feeding area for the young.
10.2307/3676482|Summary. Dataon on the associations of hole-nesting (1) with being resident and (2) with foraging in ways that expose the bird to observation by nest-predators are re-analysed. The first association is present in non-exposed foragers but not in exposed foragers. The second is present in migrants but not residents, perhaps because competition for nest-holes is less strong among the latter. However, residents outweigh migrants as strongly among those species that build their own sheltered nests as in those that use pre-existing holes, although there should be less competition for sities in the former. There are severe limitations to such correlations: they are more useful in framing hypotheses than in testing them. The best tests depend on using the hypotheses to make independent predictions. Various predictions can be made about predation-rates, based on the hypothesis that predators are more likely to follow exposed foragers back to their nests than non-exposed foragers. Some of them are confirmed, but not all.
10.2307/3676718|Sea duck use of coastal habitats in southeastern Newfoundland varied by shoreline type and distance from shore. Harlequin Ducks exploited areas relatively close to shore and adjacent to sunkers (skerries) when foraging. Oldsquaws, Black Scoters, and Common Eiders foraged at similar distances from shore, on average, however eiders primarily used areas adjacent to bedrock slabs where water was deeper (>3m) than areas off bedrock ledges and cobble beaches where oldsquaws and scoters fed. Substrate studies adjacent to seven defined shoreline classes confirmed that there were regular differences in microhabitat features. We were unable to reject a hypothesis that the sea ducks species similar in morphology would demonstrate greater separation in habitat space than dissimilar species for Harlequin Ducks versus Oldsquaws, whereas, for Common Eiders versus Black Scoters, there was least separation in these species of similar morphology. Food use by eiders and Oldsquaws at Cape Race, where Harlequin Ducks and scoters were virtually absent, suggested that competitive niche shift may be occurring at Cape St. Mary's where all species are syntopic. Habitat use by wintering sea ducks at Cape St. Mary's is in partial agreement with current concepts of interspecific competition although our evidence did not constitute proof that competition was occurring.
10.2307/3676751|Sandeels were the staple food of young Razorbills which were fed, on average, <tex-math>$2.9\ \text{times}\ {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math>. The calculated mean feed weights (and calorific values) for 1982, 1983 and 1984 were 8.5 g (61 kJ), 7.2 g (52 kJ) and 6.3 g (43 kJ), respectively. Young aged 3-11 d received the most feeds. Puffin chicks received <tex-math>$4-5\ \text{feeds}\ {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math> of a number of smaller sandeels, herring and a range of other species, while young Guillemots received 3-4 feeds of a single large sandeel or sprat. There was virtually complete overlap of the chick rearing periods and a marked similarity in the diets of chicks in the three species. The greatest dietary overlap was between Razorbill and Puffin. Razorbill chicks received far less food than other young and the species had a relatively low breeding success. Food and breeding performance should be monitored carefully.
10.2307/3676045|Forty-four eggs of Danish Goosanders collected during the years 1973-76 were examined for shell thickness and residues of the persistent organochlorines: dieldrin, DDE and PCB. A thinning of approximately 22% of the shell thickness of eggs from 1973-76 compared to egs from 1870-1933 was stated and the following levels of the quantitated chemicals were found (arithmetic means and ranges in <tex-math>${\rm mg}\ {\rm kg}^{-1}$</tex-math> on wet weight basis): dieldrin 0.12 (n.d. - 0.48), DDE 3.9 (0.8-8.6) and PCB 13.5 (4.0-22.2). Both the shell thickness and the residues show a tendency of decrease during the investigated period (1973-76). However, no significant correlations between the chemical residues and the shell thickness could be found. It is suggested that the actual registrated amounts of organochlorinated hydrocarbons are too small to affect the shell thickness and by this way of no influence on the size of the breeding population. The possibility of a correlation between these residues and the decreased breeding population observed during the years from 1938 to 1973-76 is discussed.
10.2307/3676234|In all, 1305 urban and rural Wood Pigeons, collected in the years 1961 to 1967, were studied. Fatty liver corresponding to a frequency of about 10 per cent was recorded in Wood Pigeons shot in late spring. A disease of the liver, probably tuberculosis, was more frequent in the urban population than in the rural one (5.6 and 3.9 per cent respectively). Apart from the lesions, the infection was accompanied by a clear enlargement of the liver, especially in the female. Pigeon pox was found to occur in varying degree every year among Wood Pigeons in south-western Scania. This disease was entirely restricted to young individuals, appeared only in autumn, and was more frequent in the urban than in the rural population.
10.2307/3676644|Fibre diameters and the proportions of fibre cross-section area comprised of myofibrils, sarcoplasm and mitochondria were measured in the pectoralis muscles of three species of shorebird Calidris alpina, C. alba and C. canutus. Comparisons between the structure of muscles in mid-winter and just before spring migration, after increase in muscle mass, revealed that fibre diameters had increased but the proportion of myofibrils decreased alongside a compensatory increase in mitochondria. The proportion of sarcoplasm did not change. Comparisons between the ultrastructures of muscles of C. canutus on arrival and just before departure from a spring migratory staging post, however, revealed no change in percentage composition accompanying hypertrophy. The functions of flight muscle hypertrophy in shorebirds are only incidentally related to breeding, as no differences between the sexes were noted and other proteinaceous tissues and organs coantributed more to the overall increase in lean mass. Hypertrophy does not appear to occur in response to increased body mass; the control systems are probably complex.
10.2307/3676564|The information centre hypothesis (ICH, Ward and Zahavi 1973) posits that birds join assemblies (colonies and roosts) in order to increase their foraging efficiency via exchange of information regarding the location of food. Thus, a previously unsuccessful individual is able to follow more knowledgeable neighbours when they leave the assembly to feed and so to find better feeding sites. In the long run, all members of the assembly may reduce their chances of suffering extended periods without food. Here we argue that the hypothesis contains important hidden assumptions regarding the selfishness of the knowledgeable neighbours, and that very few of the studies claiming to document the ICH have made a strong case. By assessing the previous foraging success of adult Great Blue Herons (solitary hunters) and Great Egrets (facultative flock hunters) in a Texas breeding colony, we tested five predictions of the ICH in the field: (I) unsuccessful birds should follow conspecifics when leaving the colony; (II) unsuccessful birds should follow any "ecologically similar" bird species when leaving the colony; (III) highly successful birds should be followed more often than unsuccessful individuals; (IV) unsuccessful birds should spend more time in the colony per visit; and (V) unsuccessful birds should fly at higher altitudes when leaving the colony. For both species all predictions were refuted by the data. Most reported examples of information centres consider only one or a few of seven ICH components that we evaluate. Nearly all published examples can be accounted for more parsimoniously through alternative explanations, namely: solo foraging, local enhancement, network foraging, and joint commuting. The ecological prerequisites of the ICH allow specification of the avian taxa most likely to demonstrate it. Though the herons have been promoted as likely information centre birds, we argue that piscivory, especially that relying on stealthy hunting, may make ardeids ill-suited in most habitats. An exception in this family may be cattle egrets, which eat orthopterans. Other taxa proposed as well suited for possible information centre functions include vultures, tactolocating aquatic birds (wood storks, flamingos, spoonbills, and ibises), certain plunge-diving piscivores (e.g., terns), gulls, swallows and herbivorous passerines. The widespread acceptance of the ICH is still premature. We do not know whether any birds regularly reap the proposed benefits through information exchange at the assembly, thus the mechanism itself has yet to be demonstrated fully. However, recent studies of vultures, Osprey, swallows, blackbirds, terns and rats have documented most of the component steps. To say the least, Ward and Zahavi's (1973) claim that the hypothesis offers the primary reason for the evolution of gregariousness in birds is not supported.
10.2307/3676394|Ten 13-16 d old Great Tit Parus major nestlings, with 25-35 mm long primaries were placed separately in cages open from above and made from wire-netting. Boxes with young were placed either in groups or dispersed. Feeding responses of mated and widowed (one of the two sexes removed) parents were recorded over 4 h. "Fledglings" which gave most begging calls and moved about most were fed most frequently. As there were positive correlations between weight and both the number of hops and number of begging calls, it is suggested that the heavier young are at an advantage during the fledgling period of parental care. When the yound were dispersed, females tended to feed the lighter fledglings more frequently than did males. Widowed parents fed more frequently than each of mated parents, and widowed males delivered more food than widowed females. The fledglings obtained more food when in groups than when dispersed. As the higher food intake was related to their higher vocal activity, which encourages fledglings to be near each other, it is suggested that the tendency to flock receives early reinforcement at the beginning of the fledgling period.
10.2307/3675915|A declining Capercaillie Tetrao urogallus L. population was studied between 1968 and 1978 in south Norway. Autumn brood sizes were small and varied between three phases of the population density change. Female chicks outnumbered male chicks by more than 2 to 1. The deviation from a 1:1 sex ratio increased as broods became smaller, particularly when brood size decreased from 3 to 2. Sex-preferential mortality related to food quality was the most probable causal factor. The observed phenomenon may also have an adaptive significance.
10.2307/3676749|Territory size of male Willow Warblers in a mountain birch forest varied significantly between years. No correlation was found between the abundance of insects in birches and territory size, but there was a significant negative correlation between territory size and the reproductive output in the previous year. It is unlikely that territory size was directly regulated by food abundance. More likely, competition between males for some resource other than food was the factor regulating territory size. Since weather conditions and predation play a decisive role in the reproductive success of Willow Warblers it is probable that defence of food resources is of little adaptive value.
10.2307/3676512|Parrot Crossbills L. pytyopsittacus remove seeds from pine cones in a systematic fashion. If a cone is defined as a patch, their foraging behaviour can be predicted by a model of systematic search within patches. As this model predicts, crossbills removed each seed from the cone (patch) with the same speed, and they emptied each cone. The time spent travelling between cones did not influence the length of time spent with each cone. Cones contain two types of seeds, mature (profitable) and small or empty (unprofitable). The distribution of mature seeds in a cone was unpredictable. Therefore, the crossbills must empty each cone completely in order to estimate its quality (i.e. number of mature seeds). Cones handled by crossbills in the field were examined. On average, less than one mature seed was left in each cone, being located in either the distal, middle or basal part. It is suggested that mature seeds remaining in the cone are a result of errors made by the crossbills in their systematic search through the cones.
10.2307/3676457|Annual variations in viability of Willow Ptarmigan chicks were compared with egg size, weight loss of the eggs, weight of the hen during incubation, chick weight, and plant phenology. The year 1982 was distinguished by very low chick production. This year was exceptional in that sprouting had not begun before egg laying was completed, eggs and chicks were smaller and egg shells more porous than normal. Sprouted vegetation contained 20-40% more amino acids than dormant vegetation. It is concluded that poor maternal nutrition reduced chick viability in that year. Results from other studies indicate that such conditions occur very rarely in Scandinavian Willow Ptarmigan habitats.
10.2307/3676520|Blackbird females kept in long-day conditions (untreated) and later estradiol implanted were stimulated by the full song of the male in playback experiments in an anechoic chamber. In each experiment the song was broadcast with increasing sound pressure. In untreated females, playback initially caused ongoing behaviour to stop. The birds then gradually started to hop around and emit different calls, and nest site prospecting behaviour increased. In estradiol treated females, playback caused the birds to react in the same way as untreated birds, and in addition true nest building behaviour was either started, or resumed and enhanced, or the birds showed copulation displays or sang. As not observed in the field, female singing is regarded as a side-effect of the unnatural cage situation. The remaining behaviour patterns all occur naturally and show that the male song communicates to the female a message concerning readiness to court and copulate.
10.2307/3676530|The caching behaviour of mated pairs of White-breasted Nuthatches was studied in a large indoor aviary. Caching intensity, but not feeding intensity, was negatively correlated with time of day. We suggest that storing surplus food early in the day during winter may be important for ensuring adequate food availability during the afternoon when the nuthatches presumably must forage efficiently to deposit sufficient fat reserves before fasting overnight. Moreover, applying a model of the body size of wintering birds as a trade-off between the risks of starvation and predation (Lima 1986), we suggest that caching rather than consuming surplus food as encountered early in the day, and thereby staying thin, may minimize predation risk. Later in the day, nuthatches may have to endure an increased risk of predation as they build fat reserves to reduce the risk of starvation during overnight fasting.
10.2307/3676875|Movements by Great Tits Parus major and Blue Tits P. caeruleus were studied by calculating the annual degree of movement, for the period 1957-1986, from the distribution of recovery distances of birds ringed as nestlings, and by correlating them with environmental variables: indices of beech mast, population density and winter severity. Date of ringing (early or late in the season) was also taken into account. Recoveries at the ringing site were excluded. About 70% of recoveries were within 15 km of the ringing site. For the Great Tit, the proportion of 'long'-distance recoveries (> 15 or > 50 km) decreased in the course of the study period, increased at high population densities and was not related to beech crop index and winter severity. Late-hatched birds produced more long-distance recoveries than early-hatched birds. Blue Tit movements were not related to any of the variables studied. It is suggested that the decrease in the proportion of long-distance recoveries of Great Tits in the course of the 30-year period might ultimately be caused by improved feeding conditions in winter. Apparently, in the densely populated regions of Western Europe short-distance movements are sufficient for the birds to find better feeding sites when conditions in the breeding area deteriorate in winter, hence a relationship with winter severity was not found. Probably population density affects the degree of movement in a proximate way, while the beech crop influences movement indirectly, by its effect on population size through juvenile survival.
10.2307/3676864|Fieldfares wintering in eastern England have a flexible social structure ranging from highly gregarious to near-territorial according to their food supply. Feeding experiments were carried out to investigate this variability. In experiments using apples, previously-gregarious Fieldfares established large exclusive territories, of a kind hitherto unknown in this species. Territory-owners spent more time on aggression and eating experimental apples and less time hunting invertebrates than non-territorial birds did. Within the range used, apple density and distribution had little effect on feeding and territorial behaviour. Increasing intrusion by Fieldfares and Starlings reduced the amount of time which owners spent eating apples, while increasing the time which non-territorial birds spent eating them. Increasing intrusion increased agonistic behaviour time for all birds. Estimated net energy gain of territory-owners declined with increasing intrusion rate while that of non-territorial birds did not. Territories shrank and were abandoned when non-territorial birds enjoyed higher net energy gain than owners, possibly following a period of assessment of the value of defence after defence had become uneconomical. Territoriality permitted accumulation of reserves in preparation for food scarcity and was thus part of an adaptation to unpredictable, rather than stable, food supplies.
10.2307/3676441|In the laboratory, we tested the hypothesis that cold temperatures and/or wind retard the growth of rectrices, independent of a bird's nutritional status. Analysis of average growth bar widths from induced rectrices of White-breasted Nuthatches Sitta carolinensis maintained on ad libitum food indicated no significant effect of either wind, temperature or their interaction on the rate of feather regeneration. These results suggest that, even in quite cold and windy environments, the rate of growth of an induced feather is not significantly retarded by presumed cooling effects at the level of the follicle. We can now conclude with more confidence that in the rigorous conditions encountered by many wintering birds, a reduction in the rate of growth of an induced feather indicates a reduction in a bird's nutritional status.
10.2307/3676402|A new census and monitoring method for populations of breeding Puffins was developed and applied to the population on the island of Hernyken. The method is based on a star-shaped model of evenly spaced sampling plots throughout the topographic surface area of the colony. The main advantages of this approach are that all areas are equally represented, the variance of the estimates can be calculated, and it reveals changes in breeding density in any part of the colony as well as changes of the total colony area. The method can easily be used to survey other resources, even when operating on highly different scales. The number of apparently occupied Puffin burrows on Hernyken decreased from 119 700 in 1979 to 43 160 in 1988. This was presumably the result of very few chicks being reared by the Rst Puffins during 1969-1982. In 1983-1987, when no recruitment was expected, the annual population decline of 13.7% was independent of burrow density and probably equalled the adult mortality rate. In 1988, there was a significant recruitment of first breeders, and these birds settled in the most densely populated areas.
10.2307/3675902|Water Pipit Anthus spinoletta nests were mainly oriented toward NW-NE. Nests that were oriented in the preferred direction had no greater nesting success than nests that were oriented toward W-S-E. It is suggested that by orienting toward NW-NE, incubating females avoid the prevailing winds, possible drifting snow, and the discomfort of being overheated by the sun.
10.2307/3676653|A sedentary population of Song Sparrows Zonotrichia melodia morphna in western Washington State shows year-round terroriality, but in different contexts. During the breeding season (March to August), all defend multiple purpose territories as monogamous pairs, or alone, but only about 30% of breeding pairs remain on the same territory during the non-breeding season (September to February). The rest either move to wintering areas close by (i.e. within a kilometer) and form local "alliances" that are territorial toward other Song Sparrows, or defend a wintering territory alone. Complex social groups may form in which some individuals defend a discrete territory and others "float" among several territories. Territorial aggression is generally thought to be activated by gonadal hormones, particularly androgens. During the breeding season, territorial behavior is tightly correlated with circulating levels of luteinizing hormone and testosterone, but identical behaviors during the non-breeding season appear to be expressed independently of gonadal hormones. Castrated male Song Sparrows defend territories equally well as intact males even through onset of the breeding season. It is suggested that although territorial behavior may be expressed year-round, the context, neural, and hormonal bases of territoriality may change dramatically.
10.2307/3676329|This paper is a generalization of the standard check method presented earlier. It describes methods for calculating the efficiency of animal population surveys (i.e. the chance for discovery of an individual present during the survey), when the population fluctuates. Methods for estimating migration during the survey period are also described, and statistical procedures for assessing individual differences in conspicuousness are given. The methods are based on material from repeated surveys of the population.
10.2307/3676675|Aspects of the breeding ecology of the Blue Tit Parus caeruleus were studied in intermediate stages of succession in a holm oak forest at Monte Poblet (eastern Spain) from 1985 to 1991. In different years the density in two plots without nest-boxes varied between 1.0 and 6.5 pairs per 10 ha. Nestbox introduction seems to have increased the density of breeding pairs. The mean laying date was earlier (6 vs. 13 May) in low altitude (500-750 m a.s.l.) plots than in a high altitude (900-1000 m a.s.l.) plot, but clutch size (6.9 vs. 6.5 eggs) was not significantly different (mean 6.6 eggs). No differences in mean laying dates were found between years. Significant differences in clutch size were found only between two years at the high altitude site. There was a slight, non-significant, seasonal decline in clutch size. No second clutches were laid. These results are discussed in the context of other Mediterranean studies with special focus on the differences and similarities between Corsican and mainland populations. It is shown that most of the characteristics of the Corsican population (i.e. density, habitat use, laying date, clutch size, number of broods per year) are shared by some populations on the mainland. On the other hand, some breeding traits of Blue Tit populations in southern France are closer to those of Central and North European populations than to the Iberian ones.
10.2307/3676095|In winter, both sexes foraged almost exclusively in dead spruce trees, whereas in summer the females visited living trees of different species more frequently than the males. The females usually foraged higher up and in lower-growing trees than the males; this difference was greatest in winter. For both sexes mean foraging height was lower in winter than in summer; this difference was significant both between the sexes within any season and for both sexes in different seasons. Females foraged on trunks and branches of lesser diameter than did the males, especially in winter. It is suggested that feeding efficiency is maximized by such sex segregation in choice of foraging niche. The morphological dimorphism and niche segregation of the sexes are probably an adaptation to the near absence of other potentially competitive woodpeckers in northern coniferous forests.
10.2307/3676296|Three different methods for censusing larid populations are described and evaluated against population estimates of four larid species on two skerries in the stfold archipelago, SE Norway. When the birds were censused from the highest point in the colony during five minutes after arrival, the best estimate was obtained. For morning censuses during the incubation period, all values were in a range of 10% of the estimated breeding populations. Morning censuses were also quite robust against differing experience of the observers. Time of day did not influence the census results significantly.
10.2307/3676381|Since House Sparrows Passer domesticus and Tree Sparrows P. montanus compete for nesting holes, nest defence could potentially be of great importance. Experiments with stuffed dummies of male House Sparrows, Tree Sparrows and Siskins Carduelis spinus showed that nest defence responses by sparrow owners were directed towards other sparrows, but not to Siskins. The relative use of two defensive strategies (physical attack or blocking of the nest entrance with the body) was also examined in relation to the species of the owner and that of the stuffed dummy (i.e. the intruder). House Sparrows attacked either sparrow species more often than did Tree Sparrows. However, Tree Sparrows did more nest-blocking than House Sparrows. Both species were more likely to direct nest-blocking towards House Sparrow than Tree Sparrow intruders, which suggest interspecific recognition. The results are interpreted in relation to the more aggressive behaviour and dominance of House Sparrows and the fact that nest-blocking is a safer defence strategy for the owner than physical attack.
10.2307/3676858|In the Great Tit Parus major distance between pair members decreased significantly during the fertile period of the female; at the same time a more clumped pattern of home range use was observed. Males also followed their females more often when females initiated site-changes, while males reduced their own rate of site-change initiation. All these facts are consistent with the mate-guarding hypothesis. Males did not visit other territories more frequently during the territory owners' fertile period and they were not engaged in as many aggressive encounters as predicted. Courtship feeding as the reason for the close male-female proximity was rejected because males rarely fed their females. Neither did the data support a predator detection, nor a nest-guarding hypothesis. Compared with other bird species studied, mate-guarding is less intense in the Great Tit. This is probably due to its forest-living habit, its territorial system and relatively low breeding density reducing the opportunities for males to seek extra-pair copulations. The relatively high nesting synchrony may also reduce the need for mate-guarding.
10.2307/3676354|During courtship feeding male Common Terns selected the largest and heaviest food items they caught to carry to the females. It is argued that this would economise on the male's expenditure of time and energy and might lead to higher breeding success.
10.2307/3676186|Composition, species richness, evenness, and heterogeneity of a passerine bird guild in Danish pine plantations were studied in winter. Species richness, evenness, and heterogeneity rose with increasing tree age. Both taxonomic and structural changes in the vegetation contributed to this effect. The total density of the guild was about the same, but the three most abundant species became less abundant in the older woods, where they utilize narrower foraging niches. No signs of within-tree niche changes were seen apart from height. The total frequentation of different feeding stations was related to food resources. The absence of Parus montanus did not affect the habitat distribution of P. palustris, nor the niche division pattern of the whole pariform guild in the pines. In comparison with other areas, P. cristatus was abundant, and this may be a case of density compensation.
10.2307/3675990|A new type of altimeter pasted on the birds' backs was used in studying flight altitudes of swifts in South Sweden. It permits measurement and recording of the density of air during a flight, and hence of the flight altitudes. The maximum altitude of 50 flights in clear weather was 3600 m, and the average 2300 m. The maximum flight altitude for 19 flights in cloudy weather was 1720 m and the average about 700 m. Homing flights in clear weather over 44 and 405 km gave a maximum altitude of 3300 m and an average of 2070 m, whereas homing flights over 90 and 30 km in overcast weather gave a maximum flight altitude of 1720 m and averages of 780 m and about 540 m, respectively. The swifts taking part in the 405 km homing flight spent on the average 12 hours flying at high altitudes. Data are given for the same individuals taking part in more than one flight.
10.2307/3676771|Cocks weighed more than hens, except in March-May when hens had much fat. The main increase of gonads followed that of combs. Both decreased before the light cycle reached its peak. By late October, young had combs as big as those of old. In winter, Scottish cocks had bigger testes than arctic cocks.
10.2307/3676247|Spacing and home range use of seven Mallard broods were studied in a small lake (5.8) ha) during 1977 and 1978. The broods were well spaced out with a various degree of overlap in home range use, which increased with increasing age differences between broods. Increasing overlap with increasing age was found between two broods of the same age. Marked individual variation in home range use was found. No distinct, defended brood territories were found, but all broods showed preference for certain sections of the shoreline. The two largest broods used more space than the others, and brood hatched late in the season used less space than early ones. Regarding age, no distinct pattern in home range use was found, but 3 broods used the same general areas during their growth period. Spacing pattern also seem to be influenced by other broods present and the female status, as a dominance hierarchy seem to exist. Loafing sites, commonly reused, were near preferred feeding areas. Interactions between broods were infrequent. Interbrood competition for invertebrate food during early stages of life is suggested to be the ultimate factor regulating spacing. Adaptive value of spacing in Mallard broods, spacing mechanism and proximate factors involved are discussed.
10.2307/3676289|Dispersal of the Caspian Tern during the years 1908-72 within the northern Gulf of Bothnia was studied on the basis of censuses of breeding pairs. This species has an ability to stay after the return migration in a state, where all birds of a colony may - due to negative environmental influences at the breeding place - start a trial-and-error flight to seek new breeding islets. Before 1947 the breeding population comprised solitary pairs and some colonies of less than 20 pairs. In 1947, a colony of almost 200 pairs apparently moved about 800 km to the north from their old breeding areas and settled in the northern Gulf of Bothnia. Subsequently, the colony broke into two segments about 100 km apart from each other (vicinity of Lule in Sweden, and the Krunit islands in Finland) with varying numbers in each; within each colony the birds often change their breeding islets.
10.2307/3676526|Egg numbers in Kestrel clutches decline from 6.5 to 3.2 with progressive laying date. Laying Kestrels did not respond to eggs added to the nest after the second egg. Egg removals starting on day 3, 5 or 7 of laying demonstrated that responsiveness (production of extra eggs) ceased ca 4 d before the normally final egg. Thus clutch fixation occurred sooner after the first egg in late than in early nests. Continuous records of nest temperature were used to establish incubation frequency of the female throughout laying in experimental and control nests. Incubation rose from 0 to 98% of time in the course of the laying phase. This rise started sooner and was more rapid in late nests and in nests with added eggs, and delayed in response to egg removal. The higher level of incubation tendency in late breeders at the onset of laying may be instrumental in more rapid follicle resorption and hence in clutch size reduction.
10.2307/3676428|Patterns of residence and site-fidelity were examined in the nomadic Siskin Carduelis spinus at 14 wintering sites in Britain and Spain where excess food was continually available. In spite of the stability of the food source, only 8% of birds captured at the study sites became "resident", being caught on over 70% of trapping days over several months. In contrast, the majority of birds were classified as "transients", staying for short periods and often being caught only once. Both residents and transients continued to arrive throughout the winter. Residents appeared to become sedentary as soon as they arrived. Transients were very mobile (making movements of 10-40 km in a single day), whereas residents made only short-range movements (usually less than 3 km). There were no sex, age, or size differences between residents and transients. An index of body condition (mass/wing length<sup>3</sup>) varied daily and seasonally, birds being heaviest in midwinter and in the afternoon. However, residents were consistently heavier than transients from the date of their initial capture onward. The evidence suggests that the observed variation in site fidelity fits the hypothesis of Gauthreaux which relates residence to dominance.
10.2307/3675916|Food of nestling Magpies consisted mainly of earthworms (25%), carrion (rabbit) (20%), cereals (19%) and Philopedon plagiatus (Curculionidae) (12%), whereas food of nestling Jackdaws was dominated by cereals (29%), P. plagiatus (22%) and noctuid larvae (10%). Both species foraged mainly by gleaning from vegetation with a higher rate of probing in the Magpie. Most important feeding habitats were Corynephorus heath and Dactylus grassland. Magpies, in contrast to Jackdaws, also exploited pine plantations (10%) and areas with tall herbs (6%). As many nestlings of the two species starve, food seems to be insufficient, and therefore, food overlap between Magpie and Jackdaw reflects a competitive situation. This competition is highly asymmetric, resulting in low reproductive success for the Magpie, whereas the Jackdaw, feeding further from its nest, is less affected. Of several often used overlap formulas, the simplest one min (<tex-math>${\rm P}_{{\rm xi}},\ {\rm P}_{{\rm yi}}$</tex-math>) gave the best fit between expected food overlap, based on bill measurements, feeding habitat and feeding technique, and observed food overlap. Food distributions based on species gave lower overlap values than if based on size (length or weight). Generally, overlap values are sensitive to the choice of classification of resources.
10.2307/3675970|Birds with their great mobility often exploit habitats that, because of physical or practical (e.g. overt predation) reasons cannot be used for breeding. We propose that the relative extent of survival habitats in comparison with breeding habitats is an important factor determining migratory and reproductive tactics in different bird species. Birds with a surplus of survival habitats will, because of strong breeding competition, have a deferred age of first breeding (immatures exploit survival habitats), small clutch sizes and poor reproductive output. Furthermore, these birds should return to their survival habitats in an early migration as soon as possible after breeding. Adults postpone moult until after the post-breeding migration, and when possible, migrate in advance of their young. In contrast, a surplus of breeding habitats leaves room for an early age of first breeding, large clutch sizes, postnuptial moult on breeding grounds and a late migration away from the breeding habitat, when adults migrate simultaneously with or even, if delayed by moult, after the juveniles. On the basis of qualitative information on habitat selection in different birds, we expect sea-birds, birds diving for food to relatively great depths, "littoral waders" and medium-sized or large birds of open terrestrial habitats to have surplus survival habitats. In contrast, dabbling ducks, "vegetation-waders", small-sized land birds (particularly those breeding in regions with a great seasonal flush of food and other resources) and medium-sized/large birds of closed habitats, have comparatively extensive breeding habitats. General differences in migration and breeding habits between these groups of birds seem to accord with predictions. Stress is laid on the importance of, besides temporal fluctuations in available resources, different patterns of habitat use, for the evolution of life-history tactics according to the r-K spectrum. Body size per se probably is of additional importance in this respect. Breeding tactics are constrained by specializations in modes of life, which in turn represent adaptations to different survival/breeding habitats and their seasonality.
10.2307/3676504|The topographical situation and the vegetation of mass roosts selected by Bramblings in Switzerland show that they are protected against both wind and cold air. This was confirmed by measurements of nightly minimum temperatures at two roosts. Measurements of wind velocity in the surroundings of one roost suggest that the most wind protected site was chosen among 10 similar coniferous woods within several km. The distribution of mass roosts shows that they are often located at the periphery of the best and most visited feeding areas. The energetic advantages of a peripheral mass roost are estimated by comparison with a hypothetical central mass roost and with birds roosting singly or in small groups. Roost site selection of Bramblings can be evaluated at four different levels. (1) Communal roosting cannot be explained by microclimatic advantages of the roost site alone. (2) The regional location of a mass roost could be partly due to the microclimate of the site. (3) Within a certain region, Bramblings select microclimatically favourable sites. (4) At the roost site, Bramblings select dense vegetation.
10.2307/3676429|Hen Harrier Circus cyaneus hunting behaviour was examined in relation to the abundance and distribution of prey on two areas of heather moorland in Scotland. During 578 hours of observation, harriers were seen hunting for 18 hours, in which they took 86 prey. The proportion of large prey (Red Grouse Lagopus lagopus scoticus chicks and lagomorph young) increased in the diet as their abundance increased, whereas the proportion of small prey (passerines and small mammals) decreased. Where large prey were scarce, harriers hunted according to passerine distribution. Where grouse were common, harriers hunted in accordance with grouse distribution. In agreement with predictions from patch models, increasing grouse density resulted in harriers spending less time attacking each brood. Interactions between harriers and grouse were observed 41 times, of which 20 resulted in capture. Adult grouse vigorously defended their young against harriers, and males responded more often than females. Observations of harriers hunting and at the nest indicated that once they had caught a grouse chick they rarely returned to the same brood to catch another.
10.2307/3676866|Knots occurring in north Norway in spring have been presumed to breed in Siberia. We find that, based on their body size, ringing locations and migration timing, Knots in Balsfjord, north Norway, in May belong to the Nearctic breeding population C. c. islandica. Some moult in autumn on the Wash and Wadden Sea, and overwinter in Britain, notably at Teesmouth and the Wash. Some may reach Balsfjord in May after a direct flight from the Wash. 15 000-28 000 Knots are present for 2-3 wk in May, departing between 25-30 May, making Balsfjord a staging site of major international importance to Knots. The breeding origins of at least 30 000 Knots present in Porsangerfjord (250 km NE) are unknown, but migration timing and ringing location indicates possible Nearctic origin for these also.
27669758|Structure of display flights and vocalizations of the Broad-billed Sandpiper were studied in northern Sweden. Males defended territories by aerial displays which lasted from a few minutes to over half an hour and were aggressive against intruding displaying males until at least a few days before hatching. Display flights occurred at heights of 1520 m and consisted of repeated alternations between brief and rapid wing fluttering and longer glides. Three main vocalizations were recognized: (1) a rhythmically repeated call (RRC) emitted during glides between flutters; (2) a brief chattering which often preceded song, but also was frequent at intra-specific chases; and (3) song, which was most often delivered during the descent in a parachuting posture with uplifted wings. Flight song was followed either by landing or more often by a rapid ascending flight when some RRCs were delivered. The song of the Broad-billed Sandpiper has the most stereotyped structure among eight Calidris species compared but exhibits similarities with that of some species of that genus. Some aspects of territoriality and breeding system of L. falcinellus are discussed briefly.
10.2307/3676832|Clutch size, ranging from two to five eggs, increased slowly over most of the season, but decreased rapidly towards the end. The size of first and second clutches followed opposite seasonal trends; first clutches increased slowly while second clutches decreased rapidly. Older females started laying earlier and laid larger clutches; second clutches increased more rapidly with age than first clutches, and the size difference between first and second clutches thus increased with female age. Clutches laid at the clutch size peak of the season produced most fledged young. Yound fledged during the second half of the season were recaptured before they left the study area more often than early young, but local recruitment of breeders was highest from early broods hatched in the middle of May. Our results suggest that differences related to female age (experience) interacted with true seasonal trends in clutch size which, most likely, were responses to changes in breeding conditions; no evidence was found for tactical adjustments of the reproductive effort in the course of the season.
10.2307/3676410|We studied the relation between the mating success of male Rock Ptarmigan Lagopus mutus and the colour of their leg bands. A previous study in this population at Sarcpa Lake, NWT, Canada reported that males with red or orange (R/O) leg bands achieved significantly higher mating success in one year than males without these band colours. During our study, we found that R/O bands did not increase male mating success in four subsequent years. Males with R/O bands were, however, significantly more likely to suffer aggressive intrusions from other males than males with non-R/O bands. These new findings are more consistent with recent theoretical and empirical studies of coverable badges in birds-R/O bands are similar in colour to the supraorbital combs (a coverable ornament used in both inter- and intrasexual interactions) of male Rock Ptarmigan and thus may elicit aggression from other males rather than increasing their attractiveness to females.
10.2307/3676110|The role of ringing recovery patterns as indicators of periods of stress and mortality is assessed in four small birds of prey. In first year birds the main period of mortality occurs when the young leave the nest and/or become independent of the parents: Barn Owl Tyto alba September, Little Owl Athene noctua July-August, Tawny Owl Strix aluco August-October, Sparrowhawk Accipiter nisus August-September. The proportion of birds accidentally killed was consistently higher in first year than adult birds. In adult birds, stress associated with breeding was most pronounced in the Little Owl (May-June), Sparrowhawk (May-July), Tawny Owl (March-July) and to a lesser extent in the Barn Owl (July-October) where the majority of birds were recovered during the late winter (January-April).
10.2307/3675883|Seasonal studies on gonads, accessory sex organs, adrenals and thyroid glands of adult Great Tits from a population in south-west Sweden showed that testes started to grow rapidly at the end of March and reached maximal size in the middle of April. Testicular regression started in the middle of July. The ovary reached maximal size at the end of April. The cycle of the Leydig cells could be related to annual changes in sexual behaviours. Notable was the complete absence of mature Leydig cells during August and September. Concomitant with a short period of increased sexual interactions in October the Leydig cells reappeared. There seemed to be a time lag in the response of the seminal vesicles to an increased testosterone production from the Leydig cells. Adrenal and thyroid glands, in both sexes, showed cyclic changes in their activity during the year. Maximal cortical activity, in both sexes, was found during the breeding period. The breeding and molting periods were associated with high thyroid activity in both sexes.
10.2307/3676324|Greater Scaup Aythya marila migrate through Jamaica Bay Wildlife Refuge on the east coast of North America, and small numbers overwinter there. The 3600 ha refuge contains two man-made freshwater ponds and an extensive tidal bay. Scaup arrived on the refuge in late September and were present until May, although peak numbers of birds were present from October through December, and in March and April. Scaup concentrated on the tidal bay on falling and low tides, and used the ponds on rising tides. Scaup concentrated on the bay during low temperatures and on the ponds during higher temperatures. Wind velocity affected scaup mainly in influencing flock size; scaup formed larger, denser flocks at high velocities. Multiple regression procedures indicated that date (only on the ponds), tidal factors, wind velocity and temperature were significant variables contributing to the variability in the number of scaup on the three census areas.
10.2307/3676213|Distribution and migratory habits of four red-breasted plovers from Asia, Charadrius leschenaultii, Ch. mongolus, Ch. asiaticus, and Ch. veredus, are discussed. The four species are distributed in six populations, or three pairs of populations, which apparently represent three stages in the evolution of migratory habits: I. High degree of synhiemy (leschenaultii); II. High degree of allohiemy (mongolus); III. Complete allohiemy (asiaticus-veredus). The two populations in group I are morphologically the least, and those in group III the most differentiated. Presumed competition between leschenaultii and asiaticus in Transcaspia and between leschenaultii and veredus in Mongolia may have reduced variability in these four populations, which show no geographical variation, contrary to the two populations of mongolus.
10.2307/3676725|Foraging activity and behaviour of Grey Herons were recorded in a tidal and an adjacent non-tidal brackish water area to investigate whether herons behaved differently in the two areas. This was not the case. Distribution of foraging herons and overall fishing success were similar, despite large differences in food availability. Foraging success did not vary much in the course of a day in the non-tidal area, but in the tidal area foraging was much more successful at high tide and almost impossible at low tide. This, however, did not seem to cause a shift of birds from the non-tidal to the tidal area. In neither area did numbers of foraging herons and fishing success vary much in the course of the winter. Weather variables, on the other hand, influenced heron distribution and foraging success, with herons shifting towards the tidal area during windy, rainy and cloudy weather, when foraging became relatively more efficient there. This could indicate that generally both areas are equally profitable to herons, despite large differences in the spatial and temporal availability of prey.
10.2307/3676782|Seabirds are suggested as useful indicators of the abundance and distribution of various of their prey species as well as indicators of changes in oceanic conditions. Additionally, it is shown that seabirds with varying foraging methods are affected differently, with respect to breeding success, by changes in prey numbers and availability. Diets of three seabird species changed dramatically over a two-year period (1977 to 1978) with respect to numbers, species, frequency of occurrence, and length of prey. A concomitant reduction in breeding success from 1977 to 1978 (by up to 90%), was noted for surface-feeding Black-legged Kittiwakes Rissa tridactyla and Glaucous-winged Gulls Larus glaucescens, but not for diving Tufted Puffins Fratercula cirrhata. Concurrent sampling of fish prey populations revealed stratification and depression of stocks in 1978 of the predominant species eaten in 1977. Possible explanations of changes in fish stocks are lower sea temperatures in 1978 and seawater dilution in 1977.
10.2307/3676287|Data on nestling weight in the Pied Flycatcher were collected during three years in two separate nest-box areas. The nestlings were weighed at a calculated age of nine days by means of a dynamometer. Seasonal changes in nestling weight were examined. In one of the years, the weight decreased significantly during the season, whereas it changed very little in the other two years. Deterioration of the foraging conditions is put forward as the most probable cause of the observed seasonal decrease in weight. Nestling weight did not correlate with brood-size, although negative correlation has been reported in the literature. Thus, the relation of weight to brood-size can probably be highly modified. Food supply and brood reduction are discussed as factors which may be of significance in this connection.
10.2307/3676701|This study is based on the assumption that song sharing in neighbouring Redwings is advantageous in terms of genetic fitness. By calculating dispersal and immigration rates we also wanted to gain information about the timing of song learning and the causal background for the maintenance of local song dialects in this species. We recorded and analysed the song patterns of 304 Redwing males during three or four consecutive years in six populations in central Norway and Sweden. Data on breeding success, dispersal and immigration were collected for three of the populations. Although some males had two song types, most had only one. The frequency of two-type singers in the different areas did not correlated with the density of singing or breeding birds, nor with the extent of song sharing between birds, which differed considerably between areas. Song sharing did not correlate with the density of singing or breeding birds, but was positively correlated with breeding success. To explain this relationship we suggest that differences in age structure, onset of breeding in spring and nest predation are important. Sparsely populated areas and areas with high breeding success had a more stable song pattern from one year to the next than areas with higher density and lower breeding success, respectively. Colour-banding indicated that on average 17% of adults returned to the area in which they nested previously, whereas less than 1% of nestlings returned to the natal area. Thus, we suggest that the local nestling population contributed very little to the same breeding population in the following year, and that the longterm maintenance of a local dialect may be explained by the young males copying the song of the older males of the area in which they settle to breed in their first spring.
10.2307/3676015|Intersexual selection is regarded to be one of the mechanisms responsible for the evolution of versatility in bird song. In this study I examined if intersexual selection could have contributed to the evolution of versatility in Willow Warbler song. Data on time of arrival, pair-formation and reproductive success was collected for 15 Willow Warbler males in 1979 and for 15 males in 1980. The degree of song versatility was estimated for five first-time breeding and four older male Willow Warblers by dividing the number of different syllable types by the total number of syllables distinguished. Older males performed more versatile songs than did the males which were breeding for the first time. The former also arrived earlier on the breeding ground, became paired earlier and, furthermore, these pairs achieved better reproductive success. My conclusion, therefore, is that intersexual selection has been involved in the evolution of Willow Warbler song versatility and that the mechanism involved is the choice by the female of the best mate.
10.2307/3676139|The reproductive behaviour of the Black-throated Diver was studied in Sweden 1967-75 and in Alaska 1972. The different vocalisations and displays are described, as well as the territorial, sexual, nesting and parental behaviour. The birds arrive pairwise on the day the ice thaws, and immediately start courting and copulating. The courtship is very inconspicuous and often omitted, and it is pointed out that what has been described earlier in the literature as courtship really is the territorial behaviour. The male chooses the nest site, and the female does the main part of the scanty nest-building. Both sexes incubate, for 27-29 d, and both brood and feed the young, who are dependent on the parents for over three months, and stay in the territory until autumn migration.
10.2307/3676740|An activity recorder weighing 24 g with on-board data storage, designed to record data relating to seabird activity and behaviour at sea, is described. The principles, the design specification and the circuit description of the device are presented, together with data from field tests on Wandering Albatrosses Diomedea exulans to illustrate performance.
10.2307/3676075|Willow ptarmigan hens (n = 6) laid fertilized eggs for an average of 7.8 d (range 3-14) following separation from the cock. It was concluded that new matings were necessary prior to renesting in order to produce fertilized repeat clutches.
10.2307/3675986|Measurements are given for 3,487 eggs from 371 clutches of Willow Grouse Lagopus lagopus (L.) from a coastal area in northern Norway. On average, eggs from older hens were broader and had a larger volume than eggs from one year-old hens, and heavier hens laid eggs which were broader and larger in volume than those from lighter hens. On average, eggs from larger clutches were shorter than eggs from clutches with only few eggs. In the case of one year-old hens, eggs from late clutches (probably re-laid clutches) were larger than those from earlier clutches. There was no significant variation in the volume of the eggs from year to year.
10.2307/3676390|Variation in the thickness of eggshells from pre-DDT Greenlandic and European Peregrine Falcons Falco peregrinus tundrius and F. p. peregrinus and European Kestrels Falco tinnunculus was investigated. No difference in shell thickness was found for the two subspecies of Peregrine Falcon. When eggs from the two subspecies were pooled, variation among clutches and among eggs was of the same magnitude (ca. 42% and 49%), whereas variation among measurements within eggs was much smaller (9%). The Kestrel varied more among clutches (52%) than among eggs (30%) and the variation among measurements was 17%. When calculations were carried out for each clutch size separately the variations showed the same tendencies. A significant effect of clutch size on mean shell thickness was found in both species. Peregrines produced eggs with significantly thinner shells when they laid large clutches, whereas Kestrels showed the opposite tendency. The clutch size effect is discussed in relation to procedures for sampling of eggs and fragments to assess shell thinning. In studies of eggshell thinning in Peregrine eggs one should use data from as many nests as practically possible instead of using data on many eggs from a few females.
10.2307/3676511|Regurgitated food and pellets were collected from Shags on the Isle of May, Scotland. Young Shags were fed almost exclusively lesser sandeels. The relative contributions of 0-group and older sandeels varied markedly between years. Fish were the predominant prey of full grown birds which consumed a wider spectrum of fish than were fed to chicks. Otoliths from at least 14 species were identified but sandeels dominated the diet and were present in 93% of all pellets and accounted for 97% of otoliths. There was no evidence that clupeids were ever an important prey. Although most published data suggest that lesser sandeels spend most of the winter buried in the sand they were obviously still available to Shags during this time and their otoliths occurred in >90% of pellets and accounted for >90% of otoliths. The availability of sandeels, specifically when the fish emerge from the sand in spring is probably a major determinant of the timing of breeding of Shags on the Isle of May.
10.2307/3676606|Black-billed Capercaillie show distinct dimorphism in size and colour and conspicuous sexual differences in winter survival strategies, even though both sexes feed on buds and twigs of larch. The heavier cocks create and maintain "gardens" of dwarf larch trees, perhaps because in habitats dominated by sparse larch forests on permafrost there are few larch trees large enough to support their weight. The "gardens" provide more food and allow the cocks to save time and energy during foraging. Hens tend to overwinter in flocks higher in the mountains, to stay in younger and denser larch forests, and to use less productive habitat. The lighter hens are able to get adequate food in larch trees and perhaps avoid the "gardens" in order to diminish the risk of predation
10.2307/3676034|Bantam hen nests were equipped with inverted wire-mesh baskets into which eggs were transferred upon laying. The hen stopped ovulation when the egg number reached the normal value for each hen. The same occurred when eggs were exchanged with larger eggs. Thus hens seem to judge their clutch size based on visual observation of egg number.
10.2307/3676255|Forest-bird communities breeding on 18 forested islands of different size (1-233 ha) in an archipelago near Helsinki were censused by point-count method (E.F.P.). As expected, the number of species observed in the insular habitats decreases with decreasing island area. Comparison with the mainland shows that this impoverishment cannot be explained by chance or reduced area alone. Species progressively disappear from the insular communities and only a core of species common to all samples breeds on the smallest islands. It is mainly constituted by the commonest mainland species. Analysis of the average number of species per point-count indicates that the global abundances of birds are decreasing with decreasing area. No general trends towards density compensation occur on these islands. Besides a few species with insular frequencies of observation similar to the mainland ones, one finds species with decreasing frequencies of observation when island area decreases and a few species with increased abundances on the islands. The ultimate reasons for these patterns remain nevertheless often speculative, waiting for comparative studies at the population level.
10.2307/3676777|Following a supposed decrease in food availability during the breeding season as a result of a collapse in the Barents Sea capelin Mallotus villosus stock in 1986/87, it was hypothesized that there would be an increase in food competition and partitioning between the seabird species breeding in the region. A comparison of the diets collected from seven seabird species breeding on Horny in 1983 and 1989 showed that, despite a much lower capelin stock they actually caught a higher proportion of capelin in 1989, but fewer sandeels Ammodytes sp. It seems that the seabirds on Horny were more dependant on the sandeels than initially anticipated, and that sandeels have declined in abundance. We propose that the seabirds on Horny may also exploit a separate, late-spawning fjordic stock of capelin during the chick-rearing period. The median maximum diving depths attained by Common and Brnnich's Guillemots Uria aalge and U. lomvia were ca. 50 m, while Razorbills Alca torda, Puffins Fratercula arctica and Shags Phalacrocorax aristotelis reached 25-30 m (median). These depths reflected the distribution of prey more than the birds' diving abilities.
10.2307/3675895|To estimate the importance of refuse dumps to the wintering population of Herring Gulls Larus argentatus in Gothenburg, SW Sweden, the number of gulls was counted in 1967-69 and compared with an estimate from an earlier study. The result indicated a decrease in the wintering population between 1957 and 1969. During this period a change of method in treating refuse caused a decrease in the food available at the main refuse dump, an important food source. The population was also correlated with some environmental factors. Water level was positively correlated with the number of gulls at the main refuse dump, probably due to the fact that high water covers much of the potential food in the littoral zone in the archipelago. The results support the hypothesis that an increased amount of human refuse has contributed to the increase of the Herring Gull populations during this century. However, the original littoral feeding area is preferred.
10.2307/3676058|The Boreal Chickadee Parus hudsonicus is shown to store large amounts of seeds, insects, and spiders in trees. Each store point (bark crevice, under lichen, between spruce needles, etc.) may contain from one to several items of food, all being deposited as a single 'parcel'. Food items were secured in various ways, by mechanical means and/or by saliva, web, or seed down. The stored food can be regarded as 'communal property', implying that the memorizing of individual store points is unnecessary. It is concluded that food storage behaviour has a survival value during the subsequent winter. A few storage observations for the Mountain Chickadee Parus gambeli are also described.
10.2307/3676054|Eight pads on the feet of six warbler species of the genera Sylvia and Phylloscopus and three tit species of the genus Parus were studied. Pad size, number of papillae, papilla size, and phalanx length were calculated. The features are species specific. The number of papillae is determined during a short period of embryonic development, but the pads grow successively until the birds leave the nest. The papilla size is determined by an interaction of the growth of pad and the induction of papillae. The comparison of species shows that selection forces act on each of the following three features: pad size, number of papillae, and papilla size. The differences between P. caeruleus P. palustris, and P. major are possibly adaptations to different parts of the trees in broad-leaved woods.
10.2307/3676563|I tested the hypothesis that breeding colonies of Yellow-headed Blackbirds Xanthocephalus xanthocephalus act as information centers by analyzing the pattern of recruitment to experimental foraging areas for evidence of information transfer. The observed recruitment rate to the sites was significantly greater than the expected value by local enhancement. In addition, the pattern of clumped departures from the colony indicated that birds departing toward the sites after provisioning were more likely to be followed than birds departing in other directions. In addition arrivals to the sites were statistically clumped in time and disproportionately involved neighbors. These results indicate that Yellowheads can locate productive foraging areas by following successful colony members, especially neighbors.
10.2307/3676344|The land bird fauna of the land Archipelago (about 1000 km<sup>2</sup>, now slightly over 110 species) in southern Finland was studied in the 1920's and 1975-77. Two species have gone extinct (0.04 species/yr) in 50 yr, but 8-18 species have colonized (0.16-0.36 species/yr or 1% of the potential mainland pool per year). The fau al nonequilibrium can be linked with recent population trends on the mainland: almost every colonizer has increased, while the extinctions were observed in greatly decreased species. It is thus concluded that the land Archipelago is, from the stand-point of most species, part of the continent. Because most birds in northern ecosystems, including the sedentary species, are possibly adapted to a more vagile way of life than tropical birds, dynamics of the island avifaunas and mainland population trends are probably often interrelated in the North.
10.2307/3676691|The function of cock territories was studied in a Willow Ptarmigan population in Central Norway by recording the vegetative composition of territories, and when and how the birds used them. Cocks defended territories for about 30-60 min at dusk and dawn, but during the day time they allowed other birds to stay and forage there. The hen always nested within the territory of her cock and usually fed there during incubation. The brood left the territory a few days after hatching. We could not demonstrate any vegetative feature common to all territories. The data suggest that the cock's territory signalled his social status and quality more than it secured food or shelter for the pair.
10.2307/3676616|The rate at which birds can deposit fat (before migration starts, and at stopover sites), is a major factor determining the overall speed of migration. The existence of an upper limit to daily metabolisable energy intake (<tex-math>${\rm DME}_{{\rm max}}$</tex-math>, Kirkwood 1983), implies that there also is an upper limit of fat deposition rate (<tex-math>${\rm FDR}_{{\rm max}}$</tex-math>, the daily gain in fat mass as a percentage of lean body mass). <tex-math>${\rm FDR}_{{\rm max}}$</tex-math> in birds of different sizes is on theoretical grounds predicted to be proportional to <tex-math>${\rm M}^{-0.27}$</tex-math>, where M = lean body mass. An examination of literature data on rapid body mass increases in migrating birds, reveals that the highest values for individuals and populations are proportional to body mass as <tex-math>${\rm M}^{-0.25}$</tex-math> and <tex-math>${\rm M}^{-0.31}$</tex-math>, respectively. Studies of foraging ecology at stopover sites indicate that migrants exploiting very abundant food sources may regularly reach the <tex-math>${\rm DME}_{{\rm max}}$</tex-math> ("metabolically limited migrants"). The fat deposition rates of these birds will mainly depend on their daily energy expenditure. In other species, <tex-math>${\rm DME}_{{\rm max}}$</tex-math> may never be reached and fat deposition rates are determined by foraging efficiency and time available for foraging ("foraging-time limited migrants"). As far as maximum speed of migration is concerned, larger birds are generally more efficient flyers than smaller birds and can therefore partly compensate for their lower maximum fat deposition rates. Maximum speed of migration is predicted to be proportional to <tex-math>${\rm M}^{-0.14}$</tex-math>.
10.2307/3676593|Human influences on forests have positive and negative effects on forest grouse. Today, the negative effects may dominate. But in previous times, clearing activities causing openings in the closed forest canopy, combined with primitive forms of agriculture and removal of litter resulted in poor soils favouring pine and Ericaceae. These activities created new habitats for Capercaillie Tetrao urogallus, Black Grouse Tetrao tetrix and sometimes for Hazel Grouse Bonasa bonasia. Examples of the increase of these species in the last centuries are well documented. Modern forestry (large-scale clearcutting, reduced rotation time, use of biocides and fertilizers) are detrimental to Capercaillie, Hazel Grouse, and (in combination with modern forms of agriculture and tourism) Black Grouse. The best forest management for forest grouse is natural regeneration of trees and small-scale felling resulting in a high level of vegetation heterogeneity. New problems have arisen from the effects of acid rain and /or the input of atmospheric nitrogen into forest ecosystems. These can change ground vegetation, reproductive success of grouse, and forest health.
10.2307/3676915|We studied nest placement by Pied-billed Grebes in 1982 and 1983 at a permanent freshwater marsh near Amherst, (45 50 N, 64 12 W), Nova Scotia, Canada. Pied-billed Grebes showed no preferences for nesting in association with any of the following four species of emergent vegetation: Typha spp., Sparganium eurycarpum, Scirpus validus, and Phragmites australis. Nest losses were too few to discern whether a nest's fate depended on its association with a particular plant species. Nest losses were, however, most likely during egg-laying periods. We argue that timing of our nest visits was an extremely important factor influencing likelihood of nest failure. Nest sites were characterized by sparser coverage of water by emergent vegetation, deeper water, closer proximity to open water, and greater distance from shore than randomly-chosen marsh locations. Pied-billed Grebes also avoided nesting on edges of stands of emergent vegetation that were exposed to wave action, and aggregations of Pied-billed Grebe nests were found in areas with stands of emergent vegetation separated by broad channels of open water. We conclude that physical features were more important than plant species in determining nest placement by Pied-billed Grebes.
10.2307/3676865|Use of gap (created by tree falls) and non-gap forest understory sites by migrating birds in central Illinois was studied during spring and autumn for three years (1978-1980). Fruit and understory foliage were concentrated in gaps. Birds that relied on these resources (foliage-gleaning insectivores, frugivores in autumn) used gaps more than non-gaps. Birds that fed on food other than fruit and foliage insects ("frugivores" in spring, other insectivores) did not use gaps more than non-gaps. Bird abundance varied markedly among gap and non-gap sites, potentially reflecting differences in site preferences. Site selection, as determined by bird abundances, was consistent (correlated) between years for birds that fed on items that were concentrated in gaps but not for birds that did not rely on these patchy resources. Foliage density is a measure of foraging substrates for foliage-gleaning birds to search. Abundance of foliage-gleaning insectivores was highly correlated with foliage density in both spring and autumn. Frugivore abundance was highly correlated with fruiting foliage density during autumn when they are frugivorous, but not during spring when they are insectivorous. Insectivores not relying on foliage insects or fruit were uncorrelated with either index of resource availability. These same relationships hold even when examining gap sites only. Thus, migrants can be consistent in their selection of foraging sites and this consistency appears to exist when resource densities are markedly different among sites (patchy) but not when resources are more dispersed.
10.2307/3676373|The paper describes spatio-temporal patterns of settlement into different habitats by territorial pairs of Barrow's Goldeneye at Lake Mvatn and River Lax, Iceland, in spring. Locally, a preference for a habitat, as reflected by timing and rate of settlement and final density of pairs, could be predicted by density of potential food. Settlement followed a pattern which suggested preferred habitats were saturated. In rich habitats numbers of territorial pairs increased to a peak but decreased again before egglaying commenced. This decline could not be accounted for by a decline in food supply or redistribution of pairs due to ice break-up. This suggests that the decline represents a final adjustment of density after the habitat has become temporarily overcrowded. Territories were classified as either inshore or offshore, the latter being more costly to defend, smaller, set up later and eventually abandoned. Density of potential food was similar in both types of territory but inshore birds spent a lower proportion of time foraging.
10.2307/3676748|The timing of breeding was studied in two North Scandinavian Starling Sturnus vulgaris populations (Andya at 6916N and Ume at 6350N). The onset and termination of breeding was determined in the field. Circannual rhythms of testicular development and plasma titers of LH and FSH were followed in hand-raised birds from these populations under constant conditions (LD 12:12) in the laboratory. Free-living birds from both populations started breeding at about the same time - the first days of May. Starlings at Ume were exclusively single-brooded, whereas 70% of the females on Andya laid two clutches per year. Birds from both populations showed an endogenous cycle of testicular growth as well as in plasma levels of LH and FSH. Under constant conditions, testicular growth and increase in gonadotrophin secretion started much later in Starlings from Ume than in Starlings from Andya. The time of testicular regression, and the decrease in plasma levels of the two gonadotrophins to basal levels occurred at about the same time in both groups. The period of maximum testicular activity and high LH and FSH values thus was shorter in birds from Ume than in those from Andya. The proximate control of breeding time seems at least partly to be determined by endogenous time-programmes specific to the conditions under which the populations live.
10.2307/3676261|Nine forest habitats were studied on land, SW Finland, in 1926-27 and 1975. Part of the differences between the censuses may be accounted for by differences in census methods, but many changes in bird populations could be predicted on the basis of changing forest structure: the increased coverage of the bush layer after the abandonment of forest grazing, as well as the increase of spruce, scattered birch and the herb layer in certain habitats, seemed to be of importance. Increased forest fragmentation may also have played a significant role. Other causes include the mild winters preceding 1975 and changes due to new species immigrated to our insular study area (e.g. Carpodacus erythrinus). In general, non-passerines decreased, but passerines greatly increased their populations. Many species increased strikingly, e.g. Turdus iliacus, Prunella modularis and Anthus trivialis. Species diversity increased in all habitats except one, probably owing to increased foliage height diversity (increased bush and herb layers) and to increased horizontal heterogeneity of the habitats (more small habitat patches were studied in 1975 than in 1926-27).
10.2307/3676820|Suggestions and predictions of hypotheses (especially those of the "starvation hypothesis") concerning reversed sexual size dimorphism of birds of prey were tested using field data collected in western Finland. Early breeding species in two communities of birds of prey were more dimorphic in weight than late-breeding ones. The degree of weight dimorphism between mates in 20 pairs of Tengmalm's Owl correlated negatively with the timing of egg-laying, while the wing length of males correlated positively with the laying date of their partners. Clutch size and number of young produced decreased with degree of weight dimorphism within owl pairs. Data from Finnish owls did not support the hypothesis that the need to defend the nest has caused the evolution of larger females, but partly agreed with the "starvation hypothesis", which states that selection acts on owl females to withstand food shortage in the breeding season. It seems that female Tengmalm's Owls chose light, short-winged males because of their aerial agility; these males probably competed more efficiently for good territories and nest-holes and also hunted more effectively and economically. Because of their aerial agility, owl males tended to catch more birds and less mammals than did females. This niche separation may reduce intersexual competition for food and select for the high degree of size dimorphism.
10.2307/3675957|We weighed and measured chicks of Blue-footed Boobies at 13 localities in the Galpagos Archipelago during July 1981. Chicks were reweighed and remeasured after 5 days. For data analysis, individuals were divided into four size groups based on wing length, within which initial weights were adjusted with respect to wing length, and weight increments were adjusted with respect to wing length and adjusted initial weight. Both adjusted initial weight and adjusted weight increment exhibited significant heterogeneity among breeding localities. In general, rapid growth was associated with cold, productive water in the western part of the island group, but adjusted initial weights indicated that growth performance immediately prior to the beginning of our study exhibited a different geographical pattern. Our results show that growth of seabird chicks may provide an indicator of feeding conditions useful to oceanographers, ecologists, and resource managers. Furthermore, each species of seabird will be sensitive to a different part of the marine environment, thus enabling researchers to assess the condition of many marine resources independently.
10.2307/3676372|Many lek-breeding bird species exhibit extreme sexual size dimorphism and plumage dichromatism which has been taken as evidence of a relationship between the mating system (lek) and sexual selection. We find that lekking Great Snipe Gallinago media exhibit no or reversed dimorphism. Data from two different breeding populations and from museum skins show that females are significantly larger than males for body mass and length of tarsus, wing, bill and bill plus head. By using bill length data from museum skins 79.3% of all specimens were classified to the right sex; data for breeding birds separated the sexes even more accurately (99.4%). One character, the amount of white on the tail feathers, differs between the sexes in that males both have more tail feathers with > 50% white and larger areas which are completely white. Discriminant function analyses, based on both morphological measurements and tail coloration of the breeding birds, separated the sexes. Only 1 of 252 birds was classified to the wrong sex by these analyses. We suggest that constraints on sexual selection set by natural selection, phylogenetic effects and sexual selection working on traits other than the ones under study (e.g. acoustic cues) may explain why Great Snipe do not show more striking differences in size and plumage characters.
10.2307/3676172|The study of three western European owl communities revealed the existence of geographical patterns concerning food-niche characteristics of the individual owl species and, consequently, of community composition and structure. Middle and Northern European communities show a close packing of species along the food dimension of the niche; the ways in which the available food resources are exploited are very restricted owing to the abundance of a particular prey type (voles, Microtinae). With increasing scarcity of this microtine prey, some species are eliminated in the Mediterranean community, food exploitation methods are diversified, and some substantial dietary shifts occur.
10.2307/3676745|We examined 824 museum skins and frozen specimens of Snowy Owls Nyctea scandiaca to determine the winter distribution of age-sex classes in North America. Although there was nearly total overlap in the distributions of the four age-sex classes, the proportions of each class varied dramatically and consistently along a north-south axis. On average, immature males wintered farthest south, while adult females wintered farthest north. The large proportion of adult specimens from the Central Zone indicates that the Great Plains is a regular wintering area for owls, while areas to the east and west are subject to irruptive movements composed primarily of first-year birds. Social dominance may explain the observed differences in winter distribution.
10.2307/3676791|Many studies have shown that the decline in numbers of the White Stork populations has been stronger in the western part of its European breeding range than in the eastern. Using recent developments of capture-recapture methods to estimate survival rates, including in particular a study of relationships with environmental variables and a comparison between populations, this paper examines changes in survival rates of some European populations of the White Stork. Survival rates of all populations wintering in the Sahelian zone were positively linked to the amount of rainfall in their wintering area. However, the survival rate of the population wintering in East Africa was not significantly related to the amount of rainfall there. No significant effect of the amount of rainfall in the breeding area on survival rate was observed. Differences in survival rates were observed within western populations and between the western and eastern populations. An effect of age was only significant in the Alsacian population. No significant difference in survival rates was found between male and female storks.
10.2307/3676557|Migratory and non-migratory birds of three partially migratory passerine species were examined for differences in catabolic enzyme activities of the pectoralis muscle. In all species, significantly higher oxidative capacities were found in the migratory birds. The capacity for fatty acid oxidation was also higher in the migratory birds, but only in two of the species. In these two species, the glycolytic capacity was lower in the migratory birds, suggesting a saving of cabohydrates during migration flights. These differences between the species indicate that migratory strategy and premigratory fat deposition will influence the enzymatic pattern in the pectoralis muscle.
10.2307/3676650|In the southern United States, although Northern Mockingbirds Mimus polyglottos are non-migratory and defend breeding territories through autumn and winter, plasma levels of T and DHT are basal during the autumnal territorial period. In addition, groups of males that differ in autumnal territorial behavior do not differ in plasma concentrations of T, DHT, or LH, and autumn territory fights are unaffected by exogenous T implants. However, prior work shows that autumnal T implants may stimulate or enhance singing, mate acquisition, and male nest building. I conducted focal animal sampling of paired males and females in pairs in which males were given autumnal T implants. Results show that male-female interactions differed from those seen in control pairs in autumn and from those observed in pairs nest building naturally in spring. Differences in intra-pair calling and in male-female encounters suggest that autumnal testosterone implants place the male in a reproductive state, but leave the female unaffected. These results confirm earlier work indicating that exogenous autumnal T stimulates autumn reproductive activity. They also replicate earlier work on this species suggesting that though autumn territoriality occurs in reproductive context, neither intense autumnal territorial aggression nor natural autumn reproductive adaptations require plasma testosterone.
10.2307/3676848|Age and sex distributions of Capercaillie seen and shot in north-east Scotland were used to calculate rates of loss and of mortality. The sample came largely from open, mature forest where densities were high. Although Capercaillie usually rear more female than male chicks, fully-grown cocks outnumbered hens. This could be explained by a net loss, thought to be due largely to emigration, of young hens in their first October. After this initial loss of hens, the calculated loss of young birds between their first and second winters was negligible. It was inferred that yearling cocks tended to emigrate in their second year. The average annual rate of loss of old birds (yearlings and adults combined) was estimated at 45%.
10.2307/3676123|The primary moult of the Dunlin Calidris alpina alpina at the Wash, East England, is described. A new statistical method for estimating the duration of the moulting period of a population is developed and individual moult duration is also considered, using population parameters and data from retraps. Differences were found in the timing and duration of the moulting season in different years. Within any one year late moulting individuals moulted more rapidly than early birds. The adaptive significance of these differences within the annual cycle is discussed.
10.2307/3676366|It has been suggested that female-female aggression may be of importance for the maintenance of monogamy in birds. In Europe, Great Tits are monogamous. I tested the aggressiveness of females of this species by presenting a caged conspecific female for 5 min on their territories during the breeding season. A male was presented as a control. Most resident females were very aggressive towards the female 'intruder', spending much of the trial period on the cage, trying to attack. They were significantly less aggressive to a caged male. The aggression continued if the trial lasted 60 min, both during the stage of incubation and rearing of nestlings. Females were aggressive even if the cage was placed 30 m from the nest. The idea is supported that in Great Tits female-female aggression reduces the opportunity for males to attract a second female.
10.2307/3676264|The timing of the moult was studied in 386 Great Tits and 46 Willow Tits in Oulu, northern Finland, in 1969-77 and 1970, 1975-77 respectively. The birds were also weighed during and after breeding. The Willow Tits started moulting about 3 wk earlier than the Great Tits. The moult was retarded by 2-3 wk in the latter species when compared with populations further south. Male Great Tits started moulting before females, and completed the primary moult in approximately 74 d. The corresponding value for females was 70 d. The moulting period of the Great Tit population covered approximately 105 d. The Willow Tits started moulting more frequently during breeding than did the Great Tits. However, in the latter species this overlap was more pronounced than further south. It is suggested that the early start and termination of moult in the Willow Tits are due to the fact that the tits must have time to collect their winter food storages in autumn. The weights of the tits tended to increase during moult.
10.2307/3676113|Pituitary prolactin content is high in incubating female eiders and in females in charge of creches. It is low at other times of the year and appears to be absent in the male.
10.2307/3676822|Foraging behaviour of a guild of insectivorous gleaning birds was studied during three winters in relation to food availability in a larch forest. Important changes in microhabitat use and in searching technique occurred both during and between each winter. Among larch twig gleaners average microhabitat niche overlap increased with food availability. As bird predation had a significant impact on the food supply on larch twigs, this suggests the occurrence of competitive interactions. Utilization of larch twigs by each species was also correlated with its foraging behaviour: larch twig use decreased with decreasing use of hanging posture. In my study, "hanging" is assumed to be the most efficient posture for exploiting an abundant resource on larch twigs which are free of needles in winter. According to Norberg (1977), changes in resource availability involved changes in searching technique. "Hanging" ability on larch twigs was linked with morphological adaptations. The Goldcrest which had the weakest ability to hang, decreased its use of larch twigs probably because of exploitation competition. Interference competition was suggested by the complementarity between microhabitat use and foraging height observed among the larch twig gleaners. The important exploitation of larch seeds by the Willow Tit may be explained by the bill shape of this alpine subspecies without any competitive interaction.
10.2307/3676911|Using six species of Acrocephalus warbler, we demonstrate the stepwise procedure of an ecomorphological study. First, we show that a correlation exists between habitat and morphology in these birds. Species inhabiting tall reeds in water like Great Reed Warbler A. arundinaceus and Reed Warbler A. scirpaceus, differ in three morphological complexes (hind limb, wing, bill) from species found in shorter vegetation like Sedge Warbler A. schoenobaenus and Aquatic Warbler A. paludicola. We demonstrate that the climbing behaviour of the six species investigated forms the necessary link between morphology and habitat structure. In double-choice experiments we scored the relative utilization of horizontal and vertical perches. The amount of vertical climbing correlated well with habitat variables as well as with morphology. Using multiple regression analyses we found that vertical climbing is best explained by the number of vertical stalks in a species' habitat and increasing length of its hind toe. These results are discussed in relation to the climbing techniques used by Acrocephalus warblers.
10.2307/3676395|Black-capped Chickadees cache and recover food items as members of a flock. This social context raises the question of whether an individual might increase its food intake rate by observing conspecifics place caches then stealing them. We examined this idea experimentally. We found that an observer chickadee who watched another make a cache did not find it faster or with less searching than if the cache was made in its absence. In the presence of a dominant, subordinates searched many sites and took relatively long to find a seed cached by the dominant. When searching for a seed cached by the experimenter in the absence of the birds, however, subordinates searched fewer sites and took a shorter time to find the seed. Recovery success of dominants was uninfluenced by the presence of subordinates. Our results suggest that a "cheater" strategy has not evolved in this population.
10.2307/3676880|Incubating Great Crested Grebes cover their eggs with nest material before leaving the nest due to disturbance. The aim of the present study was to investigate the frequency of this behaviour and to test experimentally its effectiveness in protecting the eggs from predators during the absence of the incubating grebe from the nest. Great Crested Grebes on Gerzensee, a small lake in Switzerland, covered their eggs with nest material in 88% of all observations. Experiments with small hen's eggs placed in abandoned grebe nests showed that covering the eggs with nest material protects them effectively from the main predator, the Coot Fulica atra.
10.2307/3676383|Several studies suggest that grouse conserve heat in cold winter weather by snow-roosting. However, Black Grouse frequently snow-roost even in mild weather when it may not be necessary for energetic reasons, and in moist snow when there is the risk of being imprisoned after freezing of the snow. Thus, snow roosting may also have other important functions for Black Grouse, such as the avoidance of predators.
10.2307/3676363|Annual survival of color-banded Common Murres Uria aalge breeding in two colonies on Southeast Farallon Island, California was studied from 1986 to 1991. Survival of adult breeding birds averaged 93.9% in Colony I (2500 pairs, stable) and 77.2% in Colony II (50 pairs, growing, recently established). Variation in annual survival between colonies was due to unusually high Peregrine Falcon Falco peregrinus predation on Colony II from 1989 to 1990. Predation occurred when murres attended their breeding sites in winter. Excluding the 1989 to 1990 data, survival rates at Colony II were comparable with those in Colony I, averaging 92.6%. Survival of males at Colony I averaged 100% and of females 94.4%. Survival of males at Colony II averaged 81.7% and females 83.7%. Males experienced greater survival than females (99.0% versus 93.3%) combining the data from both subcolonies and excluding the year of anomalously high mortality at Colony II. Falcon predation appeared to influence survival of males more than females, possibly due to sex-specific differences in reproductive effort or winter attendance behavior. The role of predation in population regulation and habitat selection is discussed.
10.2307/3676533|To date, lekking has been the only reported mating system of the Buff-breasted Sandpiper. Here, we describe apparent resource defense polygyny in this species, and speculate on why it occurs.
10.2307/3676655|Prebasic molt and reproduction are largely mutually exclusive events in many species, but there may be varying degrees of overlap. There appear to be two extremes of overlap in molt and breeding schedules: 1. Breeding and prebasic molt are separate temporal events and overlap is minimal. Usually the molt is rapid and both flight and thermoregulation may be impaired. 2. Breeding and prebasic molt show complete or partial overlap. In these cases molt is usually slow and neither flight nor thermoregulatory capacity is greatly impaired. The molt may increase in rate, however, once breeding has ceased. In both scenarios, the prebasic molt schedule can be regulated markedly. In the first instance, prolonged breeding may delay or, conversely, failure to breed may speed up onset of molt. In the second case, initiation of molt may not be affected but the rate can be adjusted accordingly. We present here a classification of possible environmental factors that may potentially influence onset and rate of molt. We then outline recent work showing that one mechanism of molt-delay involves inhibition by sex steroid hormones. Further, treatment with thyroxine can overide the inhibitory effects of testosterone suggesting that androgens delay molt by suppressing the secretion of thyroid hormones.
10.2307/3676545|Data on breeding densities of Nuthatch were collected in three types of mature tree stands in Biaowiea National Park, E Poland, during 1975-90. Detailed observations on breeding and survival were made during 1987-89. The highest densities occurred in swampy stands (max. 4.8 territories per 10 ha), they were 10-47% lower in oak-hornbeam stands, and in coniferous stands densities did not exceed 1.2 territories per 10 ha. Nuthatch numbers reached a low in 1979, then increased over fourfold to a maximum in 1990. In contrast to the situation in Scandinavia, Nuthatch numbers in spring were not significantly correlated with the severity of the preceding winter, though their numbers seemed to be influenced by autumn seed supply and availability of caterpillars in the preceding spring. Yearly survival rates were close to 50%. Winter survival equaled that in spring and summer, and was even higher in the unusually mild winter of 1989/90 which had a rich supply of hornbeam seeds. Egg-laying in BNP commenced between 5 April and 26 April in different years. Clutches usually contained 6-9 eggs. On average two thirds of the nesting attempts resulted in fledged young, though nesting success varied much between plots. Nest losses were among the highest reecorded in European populations. Nests containing young were destroyed two to four times as often as nests with eggs, suggesting that the losses were mainly due to predation.
10.2307/3676357|The orientation of nocturnal passerine migrants in relation to winds and coastlines was studied by visual observations (ceilometer observations). Numbers and track directions of migrating birds passing at low altitude (<200 m) through a vertical light beam were recorded simultaneously at sites along two coastlines at opposite sides of the Falsterbo peninsula in southwestern Sweden in the autumn of 1989. The directions of the coastlines differed by 34 at the two observation sites, which were only 350 m apart. Observations were made during the first part of the night a few hours after sunset. Wind direction and speed were measured at 11 m altitude and the headings of individual birds were calculated. The observed mean track direction of the migrants differed significantly between the two sites, and coincided with the orientation of the coastline at each site. At site 1 partial compensation for wind drift was observed, while at site 2 wind compensation was complete. The results show that nocturnal passerine migrants flying at low altitude follow coastlines and that they may use the coastline to compensate for wind drift. It remains to be shown how widespread coastal migration and the use of topographical landmarks are for wind drift compensation among nocturnal migrants.
10.2307/3675942|Counts of nests of Herring and Lesser Black-backed Gulls Larus argentatus and fuscus made every three days indicated that the number of clutches increased by 12% per day during the main laying period. A single count grossly underestimated the population until laying of first clutches was completed by which time the earliest laid clutches had hatched. Censuses should be made as late in the season as possible. A suggested counting method is detailed.
10.2307/3676082|Territorial Sparrowhawks that were given extra food in the pre-laying and laying periods laid more eggs than did other territorial Sparrowhawks in the same area that were not given extra food. No cases of 'non-laying' were recorded in fed birds, but non-laying was frequent in unfed ones. Fed birds also seemed to lay earlier, but the statistical significance of this result was less secure. Feeding was stopped after clutch completion, and the fed birds subsequently showed no better hatching and fledging success than did unfed birds. The experiment was done over several years in an area of poor habitat, where prey was scarce, and where breeding success among Sparrowhawks was usually poor.
10.2307/3676501|A sample of culled birds was used to determine weight change and size of endogenous nutrient reserves in male and female Herring Gulls Larus argentatus during the period from colony occupation to late incubation. Both sexes showed considerable variation in body condition according to breeding phase. The most striking difference between the sexes was found in lipid contents prior to laying. Whereas males tended to deplete endogenous fat, females gained fat. There was no marked change in protein reserves in either sex. It is concluded that males meet maintenance costs during courtship feeding by using a great deal of their endogenous fat while saving the proteins. This is done in favour of the body condition of the laying female, males thus equalizing the initial parental investment of the two sexes. Both sexes regained energy reserves during incubation, being in equal physiological condition when the chicks hatched.
10.2307/3676812|I examined the variation in egg mass in a population of Tree Swallows breeding in southeastern British Columbia, Canada. Differences among females explained the largest percentage (79%) of the variance. In addition, repeatability of egg mass was relatively high (0.77), suggesting a relatively large additive genetic component to egg mass. Female body condition and age also had significant effects on egg mass. Mean egg mass per clutch was highest among five and six egg clutches. Egg mass tended to increase with laying sequence, especially in the most common clutch size of six eggs. I suggest that increases in egg mass with laying sequence may act to counter differences in size among nestlings following asynchronous hatching.
10.2307/3676476|Mate guarding was studied in six pairs of Wheatears Oenanthe oenanthe in a colour banded population in central Sweden. Early breeding pairs were subjected to a higher intrusion rate than late breeding ones. Most often intruders were males from neighbouring territories. Males reacted aggressively towards intruding males, and females towards trespassing females. Males tried to attract and copulate with trespassing females. There were some indications that females visited other territorial males prior to their fertile period. Males stayed close to their mates during the latter's fertile period and followed them wherever they moved. Males always perched higher than females probably to enhance both territorial and mate guarding efficiency. When females entered their postfertile period, their mates made more frequent intrusions into other territories. At the same time they markedly increased their rates of displays and display-flights in an attempt to attract other females.
10.2307/3676897|The avoidance-image hypothesis proposes that conspicuous, dark-phased raptors invade populations consisting exclusively of light-phased individuals because prey previously attacked by light individuals more strongly avoid light than dark individuals in subsequent attacks (Rohwer 1983). We extend this hypothesis to predict (1) that migratory species of Buteo are more likely to be color polymorphic than resident species, (2) that, among polymorphic species of Buteo, migrants should occur in more than two morphs and residents in just two, and (3) that pairing preferences should be disassortative in dimorphic species. Without information on the genetic control of color variation in highly polymorphic species, pairing preferences cannot be predicted. Comparative data support predictions (1) and (2); few data relevant to prediction (3) exist. The striking color dimorphism and random pairing of the colonial-breeding Falco eleonorae is argued not to violate predictions of the avoidance-image hypothesis.
10.2307/3676303|Adult male Stonechats Saxicola torquata sang frequently while occupying exclusive breeding territories. Singing in the population started one month before nesting, when territorial disputes were most frequent, but individuals varied in their timing. Most males had a long period of singing at the start, and short periods of resurgence later in the season. The latter were timed just before re-nesting by the singer's mate, or by a neighbouring female. Within a nesting cycle, song-rates were highest before egg-laying, and declined to zero at hatching. Song was delivered from relatively high perches, and a disproportionate number were in parts of territories closest to neighbouring pairs. These results are consistent with the use of song to retain an original mate and also attract other females when fertile, but it may also have a role in territorial defence.
10.2307/3676096|Characteristics and relative occurrence of remnants of prey at five eyries of Gyrfalcon during the years 1968-1969 and 1972-1973 are described. The Gyrfalcon's mode of treating its quarry is examined. Quantitative and qualitative aspects of the Gyrfalcon's food biology are discussed in relation to the study methods applied. It is concluded that the picture of the food composition will be influenced to a greater extent by methodical errors than by the calculated quantity. In addition to sternum and pelvis, bones from the shoulder girdle proved to be most common and useful for food analysis. Food requirement during breeding is estimated at about 180-200 individuals, of which Lagopus sp. and birds of similar size make up the vast majority.
10.2307/3675967|A very small and light telemetry transmitter for registration of body temperature was developed for surgical implantation in the intraperitoneal cavity of the Willow Tit (b.w. 10-12 g). The length, width and height of the transmitter were 15  10  4 mm. It weighed 0.75 g. The transmitter had a transmission range of about 1 m and an accuracy of 0.2C. Mean operating time for the batteries was about 3 weeks. The transmitters allowed remote recording of the body temperature of unrestrained Willow Tits during summer and winter. The circadian temperature cycle was correlated to the circadian behavioural cycle. The body temperature showed diel fluctuations and also transient fluctuations resulting from minor disturbance.
10.2307/3676683|Philopatry data from a long-term study of Spotted Sandpipers were used to test the hypothesis that yearling returns were independent, and to evaluate explanations for non-random return. Full siblings from the same nest returned more frequently than expected if returns were random. Sibling philopatry was not related to fledgling production, fledging success, brood size, parental identity, or fledging date. Sib yearlings did not return to the breeding grounds together. Data were consistent with the explanation that sib fledglings remain associated for some portion of their first year. There are two major impacts of non-random sibling return. First, when coupled with the high philopatry of both sexes and the high breeding site fidelity we have observed in previous studies, non-random return of young siblings further increases the potential for inbreeding. Second, these results illustrate the importance of testing behavioral assumptions about independent dispersal or philopatry in other species, such as in analyses of density-dependent philopatry or dispersal distance heritability.
27669755|Observations on the singing behaviour of male Plain Titmice Parus inornatus were made to determine if different song types in their repertoires are used non-randomly with respect to differing territorial defence contexts. Such a non-random association may indicate song types carry specific messages thereby reducing the ambiguity of communication. Of 14 song types tested, five types were associated significantly more often with one or two contexts than expected while the remaining types appeared to be used interchangeably. One song type clearly appeared to be associated with attack on rival males, an observation previously made in several other species of birds. The overall pattern of repertoire use for varying types of territorial defence is described. It is concluded that some but not all song types in the repertoire of this population of Plain Titmice may carry specific messages. Other potential advantages and factors involved in the maintenance of the repertoire in this species are discussed.
10.2307/3675878|The breeding biology of the Meadow Pipit was investigated during 1972-1974 in the Swiss Jura. The Meadow Pipit raised generally only one brood successfully. The average clutch size was 4.40 eggs; a seasonal increase and a final decrease in clutch size was found. The mean hatching success was 79% and the fledging success 73% giving a breeding success of 56%. Egg predation was somewhat higher than in Swedish Lapland, but much lower than in Great Britain. Brood predation was similar for the three regions. The importance of selective egg predation by the Cuckoo is discussed for explaining these differences. Early disappearance of snow cover induces early clutches, which are smaller and have a higher egg and nestling mortality. When the snow cover remained late on the breeding grounds, the egg production was higher and egg and nestling mortality lower.
10.2307/3676316|Willow Ptarmigan in Norway showed the same postures and calls as Red Grouse. Territorial behaviour occurred at dusk and dawn from September to December and from April to June. During the day cocks did not defend territories. This daily rythm was apparently acquired rather than genetic, since captive birds did not show it. Whereas Red Grouse at high density display at all times of day, Willow Ptarmigan seldom do so, regardless of density. Cocks showed higher site tenacity than hens. There was no tendency for young cocks to establish territory close to the territory of their parents.
10.2307/3676846|The survival rates and mortality causes of both sexes of fifteen species of common British birds are empirically quantified and compared using ringing data collected by the British Trust for Ornithology. In the majority of species no significant differences are discernible between the survival of males and females, and differences in survival between species are much larger than differences between the two sexes of the same species. An analysis of the seasonal patterns of recovery for several species suggests that the breeding season and the winter are the two periods of high mortality for both male and female birds. These results are discussed in terms of recent work on reproductive strategies in birds and mammals.
10.2307/3676688|In late summer, hundreds of thousands of Black-necked (Eared) Grebes Podiceps nigricollis assemble on Mono Lake, California, where they undergo their annual (Pre-basic) moult. Here, both adults and subadults have a complete moult in contrast to the juveniles which replace all but the remiges. This compressed, intense moult is believed to be an adaptation for exploiting the superabundant food source (brine shrimp, Artemia sp.) that is available in summer and autumn. No other grebe species is known to have so impressive a moult migration. Compared with moult migrations of anatids, this migration is unusual in that members of both sexes and all age groups are involved, and large, hypersaline/alkaline lakes are used.
10.2307/3676747|Studies of Capercaillie Tetrao urogallus and Black Grouse T. tetrix in Northern Europe have found that juvenile males of these sexually size dimorphic species suffer higher mortality than juvenile females during adverse conditions. This difference may be due to the more rapid growth rates among males. Differences in the juvenile survival of the dimorphic Sage Grouse Centrocercus urophasianus and the monomorphic Gray Partridge Perdix perdix were studied in western North America. Juvenile male Sage Grouse survive less well than juvenile females during years unfavorable for juvenile survival and in poorer habitats. Juvenile male Gray Partridge showed little or no such trend. These results are consistent with those obtained in the European studies. Pressures of sexual selection may have led to a growth rate in juvenile males of highly dimorphic grouse species which is near the upper limit of that which can be sustained by their ecological niche.
10.2307/3675988|The migration of the European Osprey is analysed on the basis of 1,674 recoveries from an estimated 13,500 ringed birds, almost exclusively nestlings of Fennoscandian origin. Adults generally leave Europe earlier than their offspring. Migration is essentially broad-front; mean directions of Scandinavian and Finnish birds are closely parallel. Birds of all ages winter mainly in West Africa, extending south to the Equator but very rarely crossing it; only a few attempt wintering in Europe and North Africa. Most immatures spend their first summer in the tropics. On the journey north in spring, old birds precede those about to breed for the first time. Various ways of estimating site tenacity are discussed.
10.2307/3676421|Predation on artificial wader nests was compared on small and large bogs along a south-north gradient in Sweden. The hypothesis that predation rate is higher in the south than in the north of Sweden was supported. The higher wader densities found on bogs in the north than in the south of Sweden, might thus be an effect of higher reproductive success in the north because of lower generalist predator densities. Higher predation rates were expected on small than on large bogs because of edge effects, but instead we found the opposite tendency. The hypothesis that predation is higher in the proximity of forest edges, as has earlier been found in in forest-farmland studies, was not supported in this study. This suggests that the edge effect on nest predation is not a general rule in all habitats.
10.2307/3676245|Analysis of the contexts of the different song types of three species of North American titmice indicated that many or all of the song types of a given species were used distinctively. All three song types of the Bridled Titmouse showed distinctive usages. Six of the nine song types of the Plain Titmouse that were recorded in sufficiently large sample sizes for statistical testing showed distinctive usages. The occurrence of three song types of the Plain Titmouse did not differ from expected in the contextual categories being tested. It is possible that each Plain Titmouse male could have sung up to four song types interchangeably in spontaneous advertising (one type specifically associated with spontaneous advertising and up to three used randomly in any context). Nine of the 12 Tufted Titmouse song types that could be tested statistically showed distinctive usage. There was no indication that a subset of song types was used interchangeably in territorial advertisement for the Tufted Titmouse. Review of the relevant literature yields considerable indication that song repertoires of small size (two to twenty types) may show contextual specialization, but it shows no substantial evidence to the contrary for any species.
10.2307/3676161|The Harlequin Duck breeds exclusively at running water. The size of four populations studied intensively since 1966 were not subject to marked yearly fluctuations, except in 1970. Mean density was 1.3 pair/km. The Harlequins arrive at the breeding grounds at the end of April and the  depart at the end of June and the  and young in early September. Both sexes showed a strong year to year site tenacity. Mean clutch-size was 5.7 eggs. Hatching (87% of the clutches) chiefly took place in late July, and survival of young to fledging was about 55%. Adults and young fed mainly on larvae of Diptera Simuliidae. Daily exploitation of simuliid food resources was about 2-7% and varied with the time of the year. In 1970, when food was relatively scarce, reproductive success was low. Time of breeding and migratory movements were associated with food abundance. The populations are limited by food available on the breeding grounds.
10.2307/3675904|During 1972-76, 13841 Guillemot chicks were weighed and ringed on the island of Stora Karls in the Baltic Sea. All chicks were caught when they left their nest-sites to go out to sea at an age of about 20 d. To study effects of fledging weight and time of fledging on the subsequent survival, 278 recoveries of ringed birds found more than one year after fledging were analysed. No significant differences were found either in (1) the fledging weight between ringed birds and those subsequently recovered, or (2) between the recovery rates of chicks fledging in different parts of the fledging season. Thus, neither fledging weight nor time of fledging could be shown to influence the post-fledging survival of the Guillemot chicks. Factors that might be important in determining the length of the nestling period are discussed.
10.2307/3676298|A population of Willow Warblers Phylloscopus trochilus, which were colour-ringed for individual recognition, were studied in a 46.5-ha area of mixed scrub in 1976-1981. Adults of both sexes returned not only to the study area but also to their former territories. Returns of juveniles were low but were appreciably higher for males than females. Territories were not static throughout the breeding season. In one year, especially, there was a high turnover of territorial males. Some males held two territories almost simultaneously; these males usually, though not always, succeeded in mating with two females. Six males managed to attract two mates within one territory. Some males in the study population apparently failed to obtain mates. In every year, additional males colonised the area very late in the breeding season.
10.2307/3676074|The brood patch of the female was well-developed several days before the clutch was complete. Effective incubation started as soon as the first egg was laid and was combined with the nightly rest. Although lasting only 0.5-1.5 h to begin with, the time spent incubating progressively increased. Daytime incubation started later and, on average, was first fully developed 2.8 d after the night-time incubation was fully established. The rate of incubation development was significantly correlated with clutch-size and the hatching period. Because the mortality of the latest hatched young increases with age difference within broods, selection tends to keep the incubation time in the egg-laying period below a certain 'critical' level (about 1000 minutes). The possibility that the amount of time devoted to incubation in the laying period influences the endocrine state of the female and thus the clutch-size, is discussed.
10.2307/3676589|This paper deals with the relationship between numbers of Capercaillies and forestry practices in mixed conifer-deciduous woods in 1982-88. The Tarvisio Forest consists mainly of closed mature stands dominated by spruce Picea excelsa and beech Fagus sylvatica. Analysis of data collected in the last 20 years on leks in spring and on nests, broods and of numbers of adults (cocks and hens) in summer showed that Capercaillies decreased in the Tarvisio Forest when the overall yield rate exceeded 25%, and/or the yield rate in any felling exceeded 4% of the entire stand.
10.2307/3676345|Among Willow Tits as well as Crested Tits conspecifics united into small, coherent, and territorial social groups (mean size, 2.9 ind for Crested Tit and 4.1 ind for Willow Tit) during the non-breeding season. Members of the same group were not closely genetically related. Throughout the winter each group contained a stable set of individuals. Adults from different breeding pairs rarely participated in the same group, but groups without adults were rare. The groups were formed and their individuals composition largely set by late summer as dispersing first year birds became resident. At settlement, the first year birds spaced among groups and distributed themselves so as to form even pairs. Most likely, the food storing behaviour necessitates the stationary life, and thus may explain the stable content of the groups. Food competition probably accounts for the spacing of conspecifics among flocks. Differential costs and benefits to group members from the social behaviour probably have to be considered to explain group size and dynamics.
10.2307/3676546|Wintering flocks of diving ducks often show a great disparity in sex ratio with males predominating. The behavioural dominance and dispersal hypothesis explains this phenomenon by arguing that males dominate and exclude females from limited food sources, forcing them to migrate further south. Our study of a wild flock of Pochard Aythya ferina under manipulated feeding conditions, provides some support for this hypothesis. Male attacks were directed more at females (74%) than at other males (26%) even though the sex-ratio favoured males 4.7 to 1. Male dominance appeared to influence the timing of female foraging activity rather than foraging location. Females appeared to feed after the requirements of males were fulfilled. We suggest, that in the long run, feeding second may be energetically expensive to females and cause them to migrate further, where food supply may be more abundant and male competition less.
10.2307/3675944|A small sample of seabirds was examined to determine pectoral muscle and liver weights, and carcass, muscle, and liver lipid content. There were notable differences between the three species examined (Puffin, Fulmar and Manx Shearwater). It is tentatively suggested that there are physiological correlates for the known differences in the life-styles of these three seabird species, and that further work of this type may prove rewarding.
10.2307/3676297|At 22 wetland localities in SW Sweden, breeding densities of two passerines, Yellow Wagtail and Meadow Pipit, were higher within Lapwing territories than outside them. Earlier studies of predation on artificial nests have shown that the anti-predator aggression of nesting Lapwings results in a reduction of predation on nearby nests. We suggest therefore, that the breeding association of the two passerines and Lapwings is an anti-predator adaptation.
10.2307/3676266|In the early parts of the breeding season, a Swiss population of Fieldfares Turdus pilaris showed distinct preferences for conifers as nesting trees. As the foliage developed, deciduous trees became progressively more attractive until coniferous and deciduous nest sites were about equally common. All data come from the same area, i.e. there was no change in the availability of the different types of trees. No differential breeding success could be detected, due to an unusually high level of predation. The seasonal changes in nest site preferences reflect the Fieldfares' attempts to conceal their nest at least to some degree.
10.2307/3676343|Eleven captive starlings were given food in troughs. Various parameters of the birds' behaviour were measured when trough length, equivalent to feeding space, was reduced. Restriction of feeding space increased the number of agonistic encounters between feeding birds but did not affect their feeding rates or the total amount of food they took. A dominance hierarchy was established in the flock, in which dominant birds had higher feeding rates and initiated more agonistic encounters than subordinates. All individuals had higher feeding rates when feeding with others than when feeding alone. A stepwise multiple regression analysis showed that the main factors that influenced an individual's feeding rate were the feeding rate of its nearest neighbour and the number of birds feeding at the trough. However, although starlings preferred to feed socially, their behaviour at the feeding trough was highly individualistic, as indicated by the various combinations of factors influencing feeding rates.
10.2307/3676543|Under laboratory conditions, two mechanisms have been identified that control the onset of migration. One mechanism inflexibly controls the initiation of migration, while the other requires external input from a changing environment. It has been suggested that the evolution of these mechanisms has an ecological basis related to the wintering latitude of the species. To establish whether the timing of migration was consistent with this ecological explanation, we studied the long-term mean timing of spring migration, and within-year and among-year variance in timing, in 27 free-living Nearctic migrant species. Species that wintered in higher, temperate latitudes migrated significantly earlier than tropical-wintering species. Tropical-wintering species showed significantly less within-year and among-year variation in the timing of migration, suggesting that the mechanism regulating their migration is primarily endogenous, with little influence of external stimuli. In contrast, breeding latitude showed no relationship to the mean date of migration, or the within-year or among-year variation in timing. These results are consistent with the notion that conditions that indicate time-of-year are unreliable or change imperceptibly (photoperiod) in the tropics, making an endogenous circannual clock valuable for controlling the onset and progression of migration. Temperate-wintering species were more likely to show interspecific correlations in timing than tropical species, further suggesting that external cues modulate spring migration in temperate-wintering species. Our results indicate that the migration regulation system employed might be ultimately determined by wintering latitude and associated environmental cues.
10.2307/3676836|Pygmy Owls in winter took a range of small avian and mammalian prey up to a weight of around 40 g. The owls showed a functional response and concentrated on bird prey at high bird densities, whereas diet composition appeared unrelated to rodent abundance. Small and less profitable avian prey were taken disproportionately often, counter to the expectation from models of an energetically optimized diet. A correlation between prey habitat use and relative predation risk suggests a niche specific difference in vulnerability between prey species as an explanation for the preponderance for small prey species in the diet of the Pygmy Owl. Niche differentiation may not only require adaptations for foraging efficiency but also to different predator regimes.
10.2307/3676534|If breeding failure occurs and there is variation in the time of egg-laying by individual females, then even accurate counts of occupied nests during the peak of the breeding season will underestimate the total population of breeding pairs. It is shown that breeding failure, the spread of egg-laying and the frequency of counting interact in their effects on estimates of breeding bird populations based on nest counts.
10.2307/3676781|Near Granada, southern Spain, Great Spotted Cuckoos Clamator glandarius used four corvid species as hosts, and in the Magpie Pica pica the rate of parasitism was significantly higher than in other areas. Removal of host eggs by the parasite was never observed, but damaged eggs usually existed in parasitized nests and the most damaged ones were removed by the host. Frequently more than one cuckoo egg was laid per nest and sometimes clutches had eggs from more than one female. I carried out 85 experimental egg manipulations. Rejection was found only in Magpies. Real parasite eggs were not rejected in the Guadix and Hueneja areas. The eggs of the four host species are larger than those of the parasite but incubation was nevertheless effective. The size of Great Spotted Cuckoo eggs did not vary significantly among different parasitized species, and their coloration was the same independently of host species and never mimetic (except for the Magpie). Fledging success of the Great Spotted Cuckoo was twice as high when it parasitized Magpies as when it parasitized Carrion Crows Corvus corone. The first and second parasite eggs were more successful than the third, and the egg of a second female parasitizing a nest had significantly lower hatching and breeding success than the first female's. Eggs deposited early in the laying period produced more chicks than those laid late and than those deposited when the clutch was completed. Great Spotted Cuckoo parasitism had little influence on the breeding success of the Carrion Crow, but had a strong negative impact on that of the Magpie. Differences in parasite adaptations of Great Spotted Cuckoo and European Cuckoo Cuculus canorus are discussed.
10.2307/3676424|This study evaluates breeding success of 78 (25 yearling and 53 adult) Black Grouse females in central Sweden. Black Grouse females were captured and radiomarked in late winter or early spring. Females were monitored from egglaying until late July/early August when broods were flushed. Yearlings were significantly smaller (body weight and wing length) than adult females captured at leks. All yearlings made breeding attempts. Yearlings laid significantly smaller first clutches and eggs than adult females. Nest predation was similar for both age classes but yearlings had a lower tendency to renest. More yearlings than adult females lost their entire brood during the 5 weeks after hatching, 82% vs 35%, respectively. Only 2 of 25 (8%) yearlings raised chicks to 5 weeks of age compared with 20 of 50 adult females (40%). Adult birds raised on average 1.72 chicks per female compared with 0.16 for yearlings. Mechanisms that can explain the age-specific breeding success, such as maternal condition and territorial behaviour are discussed. It is suggested that the large difference in age-specific breeding success observed in this study was a result of the overall habitat structure in the area.
10.2307/3676342|Annual fluctuations in the autumn population size of the Capercaillie Tetrao urogallus at Vegrshei in South Norway, 1920-70, were analysed statistically in relation to various meteorological factors to discover short-term effects. The most important weather variables which coincided with a high population size were: an early snowmelt in spring, only a few days of rain at the time of egg-hatching at the beginning of June and only a few days of rain in July. These factors may have operated through their influence on the production of young. The results are discussed in relation to data on the species from other countries.
10.2307/3676403|The purpose of this study was to examine the importance of the nest-failure hypothesis (Clark and Wilson 1981) in explaining the evolution of hatching asynchrony in the Yellow Warbler Dendroica petechia. The study was conducted during the summers of 1988-1990 on a population of Yellow Warblers breeding in the dune-ridge forest at Delta Marsh, Manitoba, Canada (5811N, 9819W). The nest-failure hypothesis proposes that hatching asynchrony is an adaptive response to variations in the probability of total nest failure due to predation during the nesting cycle. To test Clark and Wilson's (1981) 'nest-failure' hypothesis daily survival probabilities (DSP) of nests were estimated from frequent nest visits, throughout the nesting cycle. The DSP of nests increased significantly from laying to fledging. As a result, expected productivity ratios were greatest when incubation began with the laying of the first egg. However, observed hatching spreads indicated that female Yellow Warblers delayed incubation at least until the laying of the ante-penultimate egg. This suggests that the probability of total nest failure due to predation has likely not played an important role in the evolution of hatching asynchrony in Yellow Warblers.
10.2307/3676060|Eggs from Herring Gulls were collected at 4 colonies scattered over Denmark during the breeding seasons 1971-72-73. Shell thickness and weight were measured and shell index calculated for 193 eggs, 25 were analysed chemically for residues of PCB and DDE, and 10 eggs were examined in a scanning electron microscope. Eggs from the Baltic Sea were found to be thinner, lighter, and more contaminated with DDE and PCB than eggs from other colonies. However, the electron microscope findings revealed no significant differences between the colonies. There was a correlation between pesticide content and shell thickness in eggs from Christians in the Baltic Sea in 1973, but not in 1972.
10.2307/3675893|A field study of the Cyprus Pied Wheatear Oenanthe pleschanka cypriaca in the summer and autumn of 1969 and in the spring of 1973 revealed that the female cypriaca is very different from what has been described so far in the literature. In fact the female cypriaca differs distinctly from the female of the nominate race. In spring, cypriaca is generally as black and white as the male, but less brightly coloured, and with slightly paler back and dark forehead, crown and nape. During the breeding season, the females become blacker on the back and whiter on the forehead and nape; in midsummer, before the post-nupital moult, the sexes are almost identical and sometimes indistinguishable. Finally, attention is drawn to the apparently very different song of the Cyprus race, and a tentative explanation is provided for that diagnostic difference.
10.2307/3676145|The diet of the Osprey was studied in two areas of Finland in 1972-74 by analyzing food remains and carcasses found at nests. A total of 914 prey specimens were detected in 47 nests; they were all fish. Abramis fish (mainly bream, A. brama) were the most common prey both in central Finland and on the southwestern coast of Finland, and made up 63% and 40% of the diet, respectively. On the coast, the proportion of predatory fish (pike Esox lucius, and perch Perca fluviatilis) was 35% and fish of the genus Rutilus (mainly roach R. rutilus) 22%. Crucian carp Carassius carassius and rainbow trout Salmo gairdneri also occurred frequently in some inland nests. Prey composition and size did not change during the breeding season in central Finland. The average length of fish was 20-35 cm corresponding to 150-350 g in weight.
10.2307/3676678|We studied the abundance of arthropod food within spruce Picea abies in relation to the foraging site selection of tits Parus and the Goldcrest Regulus regulus in winter in Central Sweden. Arthropods, spiders in particular, were most abundant in upper tree parts and in the outer sections of branches. There was a high correlation between food abundance and bird density, based on proportional use of foraging sites over eight sections of spruce suggesting that food distribution is a major factor influencing the segregative distribution of the four bird species. However, the distribution of the bird species cannot be explained solely by food abundance. In outer tree parts there were fewer birds than expected from arthropod biomass. A possible explanation is that the risk of predation by Pygmy Owls Glaucidium passerinum is higher there, reducing the net benefit of foraging in the tree parts with highest food abundance. A further support for the impact of predation comes from the fact that it is the socially least dominant species, the Goldcrest and the Coal Tit P. ater, that use the outer tree parts. Crested Tits P. cristatus are highest in dominance rank, but they mainly forage in the inner tree parts. Willow Tits P. montanus are second in the dominance, but have the lowest food abundance in their foraging sites. Both interspecific competition over food, and the site-dependent risk of predation, seem to govern the ways in which the four bird species select their foraging sites in spruce in winter.
10.2307/3676580|Jackass Penguins were fed either fish, squid, or a mixture and then stomach pumped at increasing time intervals after ingestion. The squid took longer to be evacuated from the stomach than the fish in all cases. This suggests that care must be exercised when interpreting bird diets using the volume or mass of stomach contents.
10.2307/3676645|Many migratory birds wintering in tropical Africa have to cross the Sahara desert. Although recent research has evaluated the strategies passerine migrants may adopt to cope with trans-Saharan migration, physiological data on migrants in flight or even immediately after landing are almost completely lacking. Therefore, we carried out a pilot study in the Algerian Sahara during autumn 1989 exploiting the fact that many desert migrants are attracted by very small vegetation spots, even a single bush, thus offering the opportunity to get access to birds within a few minutes after their landing. A modern blood autoanalyser which was established in a minitruck enabled concurrent routine measurements of a series of tissue-derived plasma enzymes and chemistries, and whole blood hematocrit and hemoglobin. These values are compared with pre-migratory values obtained in S-Germany in 1990. Elevated levels of plasma glucose, plasma triglycerides, plasma enzymes, and whole blood hematocrit at the desert sites compared with the pre-migratory values indicate the higher metabolic demands of birds in flight, and the use of body proteins during migration. Higher levels of plasma sodium and urea nitrogen in lean than in fat birds reflect dehydration in lean birds which suffer from the lack of appropriate metabolic water production from fat during their migratory flights.
10.2307/3676156|The effects of environmental conditions on the feeding rates of Ringed and Grey Plovers, Charadrius hiaticula and Pluvialis squatarola, were investigated on intertidal sand-flats at Lindisfarne National Nature Reserve, Northumberland, England. The rate of taking large prey increased with environmental conditions in which these prey became more active, or detectable, at the sand surface, notably warmer temperatures, lower wind-force and wet substrate (the last manifested as short times after tidal exposure). When the rate of taking large prey was low, the rate of taking smaller prey increased with environmental conditions in which these prey became more active, or detectable, at the sand surface. As larger prey became more available, however, these were selected and feeding rates on small prey fell. The potential influences of some environmental factors on feeding rate where manifested only when other environmental factors were adverse.
10.2307/3676663|We studied the behavioral and physiological responses of Dark-eyed Juncos Junco hyemalis exposed to experimental paradigms simulating the climatic conditions during winter. Captive flocks (6 birds of mixed sex and age) under two experimental regimes were studied: food was provided in 6 cups (free distribution - FD) or 2 cups (limited distribution - LD). After 2.5 days of grouping, social rank was determined in addition to endocrine (plasma levels of luteinizing hormone (LH), 5-dihydrote-stosterone (DHT), testosterone (T), and corticosterone (B)) and metabolic measures such as (body mass, fat deposition (fat score), adipose and muscle lipoprotein lipase activity (ALPL, MLPL) and liver fatty acid synthase (FAS). Adult males dominated all other birds and all males dominated females. Food distribution altered aggressive activity. Birds in LD flocks displayed more aggressive behavior than those of FD. This aggression focused mainly on controversies over food. The elevated level of aggression showed no correspondence with plasma androgen. Females however had higher levels of T than males. No differences were found with plasma LH, DHT, B or the various measures of lipid metabolism. Scrutiny of the feeding patterns of flock members identified that female feeding schedules diverged from that of males. Following the overnight fast, males dominated the food cups but once the initial frenzy of activity subsided, females fed. These data suggest that low ranking individuals (females) adapt to existing environmental conditions by altering the temporal pattern of feeding activity to maximize food consumption and reduce conflict with dominant individuals.
10.2307/3676174|Measurements, weights, and lipid levels of 85 Dunlins collected during two autumn seasons at the Ottenby Bird Observatory in South Sweden were analyzed. Males had significantly shorter wings and bills, and lower body weights than females. Fat depots ranged from about 5 to 30 per cent of total weight and accounted for the major variations in body weight. No correlation was found between body size and lipid level. The water content expressed as a percentage of fat-free weight was virtually constant within each year sample, irrespective of body size and lipid level. Significant differences in fat-free dry weights and water content between the two year samples were found. A formula for calculation of fat stores from total weight and wing length is presented. The results are compared to other work on waders and passerines.
10.2307/3676169|Bird fauna, especially waders, were studied in open shore meadows in southern Sweden during three breeding seasons. On 21 localities surveyed, Anthus pratensis and Motacilla flava occurred most frequently. Estimated densities in 9 plots were 17-117 pairs/10 ha. Two localities (Gettern and Hslv) were quantitatively and - less pronounced - qualitatively outstanding, probably due to favourable feeding conditions. Of five dominant bird species, Tringa totanus and Motacilla flava had the broadest amplitudes as to height and frequency of tussocks and intensity of land utilization. Some wader species were studied in grazed and cut areas, but preference for either habitat was not observed. Some ecological implications on the bird fauna of cattle grazing are discussed.
10.2307/3676529|In the autumn of 1986, 144 Song Thrushes were collected in southern Catalonia (N=107) and on the island of Mallorca (N=37) in order to study the radionuclide burden in migratory birds from areas affected by radioactive clouds from Chernobyl. Among the isotopes detected, those reaching highest activity levels were <tex-math>${}^{134}{\rm Cs}$</tex-math> and <sup>137</sup> Cs. The ratio between these two radioisotopes (0.5) as well as the detection at trace levels of <tex-math>${}^{106}{\rm Ru}$</tex-math>, <tex-math>${}^{113}{\rm Sn}$</tex-math>, <tex-math>${}^{95}{\rm Zr}$</tex-math>, <tex-math>${}^{110{\rm m}}{\rm Ag}$</tex-math> and <tex-math>${}^{125}{\rm Sb}$</tex-math>, clearly establishes that the Chernobyl accident was the source of this pollution. The mean levels of cesium radioisotope activity of Song Thrushes from Catalonia and Mallorca differed significantly. We hypothesize that this is because Song Thrushes migrating to Catalonia and the Balearic Islands, respectively, have different source areas, those originating from the Fennoscandian region being more polluted. An average dose of radioactive intake is calculated for human populations consuming Song Thrushes, and it is concluded that no health hazards other than stochastic ones are to be expected from such exposure.
10.2307/3676191|The various species of avian scavengers in southern Spain concentrated on different parts of the carcasses. A facilitatory effect of vultures and Wild Boars on Magpies and kites were detected, as well as an inverted (inhibitory) effect when short-period records were considered. After a directionality index of aggressive behaviour was obtained, it was shown that within the same species either threats, attacks, or fights occur, whereas among different species the smaller size scavengers mainly direct attacks towards those of greater size and the latter mainly threaten the smaller ones. When the response to other individuals was recorded, an interspecific hierarchy pattern was detected. The intraspecific response made apparent a gradient of increasing tolerance from Magpies to kites and vultures.
10.2307/3676735|We investigated variation in the number and size of brood patches of female (n = 133) and male (n = 81) American Kestrels Falco sparverius in northcentral Saskatchewan, Canada. We analyzed brood patch size with respect to characteristics of individual birds such as sex, age, size, condition, and clutch volume. All incubating birds developed brood patches but females tended to have larger patches than males. The size of the brood patch was correlated significantly only with the mass of the female. Birds with large eggs or large clutches did not necessarily have large brood patches, and patch size was not associated with laying date or hatching success. In a comparison with other avian taxa, we found kestrels to be unusual in that their three discrete brood patches did not correspond to the modal clutch size of five eggs. Kestrels potentially have difficulty heating all their eggs simultaneously.
10.2307/3676908|Gannets Sula bassanus, very large altricial birds, exhibit well developed thermolytic behaviour (panting, gular fluttering, posturing, etc.) by two days posthatch. In contrast, interactive mechanisms of heat conservation and thermogenesis developed gradually during the first three weeks posthatch, with a transitional phase from thermal dependence to independence during posthatch weeks 2 to 3. From hatching through 12 d slight increases in shivering capacity and down growth and an approximate 25% decrease in relative surface area were thermally ineffective. Shivering thermogenesis improved markedly from 13 to 24 d and was the primary determinant of the emergence of thermal independence. The ontogenetic contrast between early onset of heat tolerance and gradual development of heat conservation and thermogenic capacities suggests that heat stress is a greater threat to nestling survival than cold and that parental behaviour can cope more effectively with cold. Adaptive protection against hyperthermia in newly hatched young is widespread, as indicated by the onset of thermolysis before thermogenesis and heat conservation in most open-nesting seabirds. Insulation associated with down growth complements thermogenic development for many large altricial nonpasserines and more precocious species but not for passerines. The former nest in the open and are exposed to the cooling effects of wind, whereas the latter tend to be buffered from the wind by nest-sites and nests. Comparatively, leg musculature functionally matures before flight muscles and is the primary source of thermogenesis for most large altricial nonpasserines, whereas pectoral muscles assume this role for smaller nonpasserines, passerines, and precocial species.
10.2307/3676135|The total heat requirement to hatch an egg successfully was calculated to be 27.4 kcal, and the daily amount of heat applied to the eggs, at an air temperature of 16C, was 2.8 kcal. Mean daily air temperatures lower than 10C are increasingly unfavourable to the Goldcrest's breeding success. The northern distribution of the Goldcrest in Fennoscandia appears to be limited by the air temperature during the breeding season.
10.2307/3676750|Up to two extra chicks were added to a Redbreasted Sparrowhawk Accipiter rufiventris nest to determine whether the parents would increase their biomass provisioning rate. During 46 days of manipulations (day 19 to day 64) no response occurred in either of the adults' rate, or that combined. Provisioning mainly small passerines, the adults provided between 43 and <tex-math>$122\ {\rm g}\ {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math> during the first 64 days. The adult male which remained provisioning, "weaned" the one remaining fledgling until the 76th day following hatch when no more prey was delivered. The male provisioned significantly (<latex>${\rm p}<1\times 10^{-6}$</latex>) lighter prey than his mate but provided about 3.67 kg of prey in contrast to the female's 1.95 kg during the hatch-to-independence period. The rate of provisioning was significantly (p < 0.05) lowered during steady or torrential rain, but temperature extremes did not affect the rate. Since available daylight hours, temperature, instrinsic prey size, and rain could not account for the smaller amount of biomass delivered (to two nests), relative to temperate breeding sparrowhawks, I suggest in conjunction with other comparisons that some subtropical raptors may be reproductively limited by food abundance.
10.2307/3676724|Ricklefs (1969b, 1973, 1979) has proposed that the key to understanding the variation in growth rate among birds lies in physiological constraints, principally changes in developmental maturity of tissues. To examine this hypothesis I have developed a simple mathematical model of growth based on changes of water index (water weight/lean dry weight) as an indicator of the level of maturity. The growth curves obtained from the model are S-shaped and for altricial species they fit changes in body weight as well as Richards growth curve does. They can also describe weight recession in growing nestlings, which occurs prior to fledging. Values of parameters used in the model are consistent with values computed on the basis of experimental results. Thus these parameters are biologically relevant. Results obtained in the present paper supports Ricklef's suggestion that physiological constraints limit growth rate. Hence these results support the suggestion that growth rate is maximized. The relevance of water index and water fraction (water weight/lean wet weight) as indices of maturity is also considered.
10.2307/3676137|Registrations of the diel activity of the starling Sturnus vulgaris L. made at nesting-boxes in the vicinity of the Abisko Scientific Research Station (6821N, 1849E) during 1966-1973 show that this bird is day-active. Its locomotor activity is always synchronized with the 24-h period, a peak of activity occurring at noon and a period of rest at midnight. Various passerines, such as the Brambling Fringilla montifringilla L., Snow Bunting Plectrophenax nivalis L. and Canary Serinus canarius L., kept indoors in the laboratory under conditions of constant temperature but natural changes of light, show a diverging phaseposition in the summer: the start of the activity is displaced to the evening and the rest period to the afternoon. We conclude from this, that in subarctic regions in field conditions, the phase of activity is determined by the temperature during the course of the day and not by the changing light conditions.
10.2307/3676872|The decision of individuals to join flocks can be treated as analogous to a habitat selection game. When fitness decreases monotonically with rank in dominance-structured populations, subordinates may join flocks for a lack of alternatives. This approach to flocking in dominance-structured populations predicts that (1) stable flock size will increase the steeper the quality gradient between habitats and (2) the more despotic dominants are, and that (3) competitors will be distributed among habitats according to competitive ability. Furthermore, (4) there exists a unique solution to how individuals differing in competitive ability should distribute themselves between habitats when competition is of interference type. The existence of a unique solution when competition is of this type differs from the complexity of outcomes found when competition is of scramble type.
10.2307/3676817|Five species of scops-owls occur in Pakistan: Otus spilocephalus, O. scops, O. brucei, O. sunia and O. bakkamoena. The specific status of some has been questioned. Sonograms of their territorial calls and a table of wing formulae are presented, indicating that all five are indeed good species. Recent field studies in Pakistan have shown breeding sympatry between O. brucei and O. scops and between O. brucei and O. sunia with no apparent interbreeding or intergradation, further confirming their specific status. Breeding allopatry in Pakistan for O. scops and O. sunia is confirmed. Comparison of sonograms of the territorial calls of the Pakistan/India populations of O. bakkamoena with its eastern Himalayan/eastern Asian populations shows such a striking difference that we recommend that they be regarded as separate species, the Indian Scops-Owl, Otus bakkamoena and the Collared Scops-Owl, O. lempiji. Comparison of sonograms of the territorial calls of O. scops from Europe and Pakistan, with O. senegalensis from Oman indicates that they are separate species.
10.2307/3676442|Two male Yellow Wagtails Motacilla f. flava and one male Bluethroat Luscinia s. svecica were successively trained to ten colour papers, each representing one of the ten colour families in the Munsell 40 hue system. Discrimination was tested between the training hue and four neighbouring hues under standardized illumination. Yellow Wagtail hue discrimination was best in the red, orange and yellow families and less good towards shorter wavelengths and for red-purple hues. The Bluethroat discriminated best in the orange, purple-blue and purple families. Both species could memorize and make statistically significant discriminations between c. 20 hues. Their best discrimination occurred in spectral regions corresponding to their own sexually dimorphic plumage. Brightness (value) and saturation (chroma) discrimination was studied by training the same birds to the middle value/chroma of seven Munsell hues. The birds' value discrimination was poor: they learned to reject the darkest value(s) but not the brighter ones. Both species could discriminate between the less saturated chromas but they chose more saturated colours almost as frequently as the correct ones. Between the species there were differences particularly in chroma discrimination similar to those in hue discrimination. The Bluethroat's better hue discrimination in the short wavelength end of the spectrum (violet and blue) may tentatively be connected with the fact that this species has a larger proportion of cones sensitive to shorter wavelengths (about 75% of cones with colourless or pale greenish droplets), while in the Yellow Wagtail about 50% of the cones have red or yellow-orange oil droplets transmitting light efficiently only in the long wavelength part of the spectrum.
10.2307/3675972|The ecology of a population of Siberian Tits nesting in nest-boxes was studied in mountain birch forest at Kilpisjrvi (about 6903N, 2050E) in 1966-1980. The annual number of breeding pairs averaged 2.1  1.1 (SD), or <tex-math>$0.4\ \text{pairs}\ {\rm km}^{-2}$</tex-math>. The coefficient of variation in density was 52%. Partly due to the narrow study area, the average distance between the pairs was 3.2  1.5 km. Old individuals seemed to be more site-tenacious than first-breeders. The mean date of laying of the first egg was 25 May  10 d, the mean air temperature then being 2.9  3.2C. The average clutch size was 8.0  1.9 eggs and the number of fledged young 4.8  3.4 per nest. The largest clutches produced most fledglings per nest. The clutch weight averaged about 79% of the female's body weight. The average adult biomass of <tex-math>$11\ {\rm g}\ {\rm km}^{-2}$</tex-math> "produced" about <tex-math>$29\ {\rm g}\ {\rm km}^{-2}$</tex-math> of unhatched eggs, dead young and fledglings.
10.2307/3676142|Effect of sampling variation on seven commonly used indices of community structure was studied on the basis of simulated single-visit censuses. Simulations were made using pair numbers and species-specific efficiency values reported in census reports. Variation due to sampling errors is compared with the variation due to annual fluctuation in the communities for the three most important indices: density, number of species and diversity (Shannon's index). Comparison is also made between estimates calculated from the results of the simulations and values based on complete data. In four out of six communities studied, abundance and census efficiency of the species correlated positively, causing a slight underestimate of species diversity. As available estimates of efficiency are usually biased, statistically valid estimates should be made urgently especially in communities where "mapping efficiency" is low (probability of detection 50% or less).
10.2307/3676378|The assumption that parasitism is involved in most joint laying by two or more conspecific ducks in one nest is questioned. Joint laying by Buffleheads Bucephala albeola and Barrow's Goldeneyes B. islandica can be explained by assuming that all females start laying with the intent to incubate. When two or more birds lay in the same nest, one bird incubates the joint clutch; birds excluded once and continuing to lay may incubate a partial clutch, or another joint clutch, or be excluded again. Birds that have been excluded from incubation twice may "dump" one or two eggs that they cannot resorb, as a last resort. The relative costs and benefits of various scenarios are reviewed.
10.2307/3676573|Variation in egg size of a population of the Hooded Crow Corvus corone cornix was studied at Trondheim in Central Norway, during the period 1979-1982. No significant differences in egg volume were found neither from one year to another nor within different sized clutches, nor with laying date. The hatchability of small sized eggs and of eggs laid late in the laying order was lower than that of large sized eggs and of eggs laid early in the laying order. For all clutch sizes, a decrease in egg volume was found with increasing order of laying. All the last laid eggs (n = 39) had a smaller volume than the mean for the same clutch. The relative size of the first laid eggs (deviation from the mean for the same clutch) decreased with increasing clutch size. A significant positive correlation existed between the body weight of the hatchling and the volume of the egg from which it hatched. Both male and female hatchlings hatched from eggs of similar size, and had roughly the same body weights at hatching.
10.2307/3676465|We compared local song dialect groupings in Corn Buntings Miliaria calandra recorded in 1977-79 with those recorded in 1985, paying particular attention to the location of boundaries between local dialects and details of song. The locations of boundaries between local dialects in 1985 were very similar to those of eight years previously. The number and broad pattern of song types within local dialects had not changed. However, 1985 songs had slightly more elements in their central portion. We discuss the significance of these patterns of constancy and change in this and other species.
27669756|We compare behavioural repertoires of breeding Circus cyaneus in a dense eastern Canadian population with published accounts of behaviours from other parts of North America and Europe. Canadian harriers exhibited behaviours previously unrecorded in North America, such as male and female mate rejection, increased courtship displays by polygynous vs monogamous males, a decline in the number and intensity of courtship displays with declining vole Microtus pennsylvanicus abundance, male initiation of nest building, parent-offspring recognition, and a high incidence of late nestling starvation due to male desertion. Populations in Canada and Orkney differed in the timing and cause of chick starvation and in the extent to which adult and immature males and females displayed. Other apparent differences between populations, such as male nest building, male nest visitation, male egg guarding and the advantage of nest defence, reflect alternative interpretations of similar behaviours. We conclude that behavioural and ecological differences between harriers on the two continents are negligible, and that their inclusion as one full species is well founded.
10.2307/3676710|Foraging Two-barred Crossbills Loxia leucoptera remove seeds first from the basal scales of tamarack cones, then proceed to the distal end. Seeds, however, are often left in the distal-most scales. To determine if crossbill cone-leaving behaviour maximized intake rates, seed kernels were weighed from the different cone scales and the foraging behaviour of crossbills was quantified. Crossbills usually removed seeds from one scale more than that which would have maximized intake rates. Nevertheless, this behaviour provided an intake rate that nearly equaled the maximum. Crossbills appear to use a cone-leaving rule of "leave when kernel mass declines".
10.2307/3676868|Four major groups of Willow Warblers are distinguishable during spring migration at Ottenby, SE Sweden. South Scandinavian males (sm) and females (sf), North Scandinavian males (nm) and females (nf). Sm carry relatively more fat than both sf and nm, and nf carry more fat than sf and nm. Males have more pointed wings, but no wing shape difference was found between northern and southern populations. Morning trapping times differed between the sexes (males being caught earlier than females), in accordance with morphometric flight theory.
10.2307/3676775|The amount of time spent incubating during the laying period in relation to clutch size was measured in a captive Starling Sturnus vulgaris colony. Female Starlings had clutches of 5, 4 and 3 eggs and laid each of their eggs during the late morning hours (one <tex-math>$\text{egg}\ {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math>). Females laying 5 eggs (mean laying date 130), incubated 11% of the time on the second day of laying and incubation increased steadily to 80% of the time on the last day of the laying period. The daily incubation pattern of these females was very constant. During the first two days they only incubated during late morning. After laying the third egg they incubated also in the evening and from the next morning onwards, after laying egg 4, they incubated continuously. Females laying 4 (day 139) or 3 eggs (day 150) advanced both the incubation pattern and the total time incubating per day by one and two days, respectively. This was found not only for different females with different clutch sizes, but also for the same females laying clutches of different size. Therefore the amount of time Starlings spend incubating their first egg(s) is directly related to the final clutch size. Incubation development during the laying period seems to be preprogrammed. Late females with smaller clutches enter this time program later than early females with larger clutches, so that on their last eggs all females have a corresponding incubation pattern and incubate the same amount of time. These data are discussed in relation to Haftorn's (1985) proximate model for clutch size control in the Great Tit Parus major and Meijer et al.'s (1990) modified model for the European Kestrel Falco tinnunculus. Incubation during the laying period has consequences for the time and energy budgets of the female Starling and causes asynchronous hatching.
10.2307/3676304|Distances between nest-sites used successively within a breeding season were measured in a population of Stonechats. The frequencies and consequences of dispersing different distances were examined in relation to previous nesting success. Nest-predation tended to be greatest after moving far from the previous nest site, and was no higher after predation on the previous nest, but was low if many young had fledged. Nestling growth was significantly better at greater distances from the previous nest, if young had fledged from it. Birds moved farther, and were more likely to use different vegetation in which to nest, after previous predation than if success had been low for other reasons. After escaping predators, they moved farther, and were more likely to change vegetation, if more young had fledged from the previous nest. These results imply that birds adjust the placement of nests according to previous success, though great variation in dispersal distance remained unexplained by these tactics.
10.2307/3676205|The foraging niches in a passerine bird community in a grey alder forest in Central Norway (63N) were studied during the breeding seasons along four niche dimensions, viz. 'structural layer', 'tree species', 'foraging height' and 'horizontal position'. The Fringilla and Parus species were more frequently seen on the ground in late April and early May, compared to later in the season. Within the tree layer, pronounced seasonal and annual variation was particularly found within the 'tree species' dimension. Within the tree layer the species seemed most separated in the 'foraging height' dimension. Only weak and insignificant correlation coefficients were found between overlap values or niche breadth values in different dimension. Morphological similarity was not correlated with the degree of overlap in any foraging dimension. Similarly, positions in the morphological space did not predict the species' foraging niches. In the 'tree species' dimension a low degree of overlap with the rest of the bird species was associated with high niche breadth values, while an inverse relationship was found in the 'foraging height' dimension. As no linear trends were discernable in the three-dimensional space between niche breadth and mean niche overlap values, it is suggested that separation may be increased by either widening the range of explotation (e.g. Fringilla coelebs), or by concentrating effort on a more restricted part (e.g. Hippolais icterina).
10.2307/3676097|Body temperatures of Black-capped Chickadees Parus atricapillus acclimatized to winter in Fairbanks, Alaska (65N. lat.), measured during the night at ambient temperatures from 27 to -50C, averaged 38.5C, a decrease of 3C below daytime body temperature. Metabolic rates at night increased with decreasing ambient temperatures. No evidence of the degree of nocturnal hypothermia observed in Scandinavian or more temperate latitude parids was observed in these Alaskan birds.
10.2307/3676780|Food habits of three subpopulations of the Gyrfalcon Falco rusticolus were studied in coastal, lakeland and heathland habitats of NE-Iceland by analysis of 2,316 pellets collected from February 1984-July 1985. No coastal and lakeland Gyrfalcons traveled more than 7.5 km to reach areas with plenty of waterfowl or seabirds (average 3.4 km in winter). Heathland falcons traveled farther to reach equally rich areas for these kinds of prey, e.g. in winter 13-33 km (average 12.9 km). Rock Ptarmigan Lagopus mutus was the main prey for all Gyrfalcons constituting 61% of total pellet volume. Rock Ptarmigan was most important during the early phase of the breeding season (April-June) and in autumn and early winter (August-December). Factors determining high vulnerability in spring seem to be behaviour and coloration of males and in late summer, the large number of naive young. Importance of Rock Ptarmigan on heathland territories as measured by pellet volume ranged from 61-100% for the different collection periods, and 8-85% and 13-91% on coastal and lakeland territories respectively. Other prey groups of importance on heathland territories were waders (max. 12%) in summer and wood mouse Apodemus sylvaticus (max. 20%) and waterfowl (max. 20%) in winter. Lakeland Gyrfalcons increased their take of waterfowl (max. 56%) and waders (max. 13%) in summer and passerines (max. 19%) and wood mice (max. 43%) in winter. Coastal Gyrfalcons had the most variable diet: they increased their take of waterfowl (max. 42%) and waders (max. 21%) in summer and waterfowl (max. 68%) and alcids (max. 38%) in winter. Switching from Rock Ptarmigan to alternate prey involved in most cases a change of hunting habitat, from upland areas to wetland or coastal areas.
10.2307/3676038|To test the hypotheses that Tengmalm's Owl is 'nomadic', we examined Swedish ring recoveries of adults and juveniles marked during the breeding season. There was no clear difference in dispersal distance between adults and juveniles. In two cases, adults nested a few 100 m from the sites where they bred during one and two preceding years, respectively. There was one clear case of adult nomadism: an owl captured on the nest breed two years later 510 km away. This may be the longest distance recorded between two breeding sites in the same bird.
10.2307/3676127|A handy device for trans-illuminating eggs of passerine birds in the field is described. Recommendations are given for the interpretation of developmental stages of trans-illuminated eggs in order to decide if a clutch is complete. Special attention is paid to the first four days of the incubation period when the swelling of the yolk mass is easily registered providing information on the beginning of the incubation behaviour during the laying period, on the frequency of non-developing eggs, and on the date of laying onset.
10.2307/3676622|Male and female White-backed Woodpeckers differ in morphology in that males have longer bills than females and are also heavier. We found that this size dimorphism was accompanied by numerous differences in resource utilization pattern. Briefly, males foraged in larger trees than females and on thicker trunks and branches. Males more often used live trees than did females, and deep wood pecking as a foraging technique. We find it unlikely that bill size dimorphism has evolved to enable the sexes to utilize different foraging niches. Rather foraging differences are a consequence of size dimorphism, male dominance and/or interspecific competition.
10.2307/3676544|The song of male Redwings can be divided into two parts, an introductory section and a terminating section (twitter). A previous study found that the introductory section was sung throughout the breeding season, whereas the terminating section, or twitter, was sung more often and was of longer duration early in the breeding season. I carried out playback experiments to test whether the two parts of the song might communicate different motivational information in territorial defence. There was no difference in response of males to the two playback stimuli, introduction alone or complete song (introduction and twitter), early in the season. In response to the playback songs, however, the males primarily sang this section, suggesting that it contains a message to competitors. Later in the season the males responded more to complete songs than to the introduction alone. I suggest that the whole song may be used in territorial defence but that the terminating section may signal a state of increased aggression. The lack of difference in response early in the season might result from a generally higher aggressive level at this time.
10.2307/3676729|Information on size of natural breeding cavities and of clutch size in the Pied Flycatcher is presented. Natural nest holes were very variable in size and many were larger than normal nest boxes. Clutch size bore no relationship with cavity size in natural holes and was no larger in boxes than in tree holes.
10.2307/3676477|The Willow Tit and the Marsh Tit are sibling species and occupy largely different habitats in Central Sweden. While the Marsh Tit prefers deciduous woods, the Willow Tit mainly occupies coniferous forests. In the nearby land Islands the Marsh Tit is absent, presumably due to its lack of dispersal propensity, and there the Willow Tit was found to have expanded its use of deciduous habitats significantly. None of the other six species in the tit guild exhibited different habitat preferences in the two areas, which is taken to indicate that differences in habitat per se were not important. Instead, relaxed interspecific competition is a more likely explanation of the habitat expansion of the Willow Tit in allopatry. On the mainland we recorded interspecific hostility during the breeding season, but territories of the two species sometimes overlapped. Willow Tits have not evolved specific morphological adaptations to its more frequent use of deciduous trees in the land Islands, probably because also there most of its foraging takes place in coniferous trees. Furthermore, the Willow and Marsh Tits are so similar in their morphology that it is unlikely that morphological differences alone restrict their habitat utilization in central Sweden.
10.2307/3676164|This study of the Dippers is based on body weights of 286 males and 369 females captured once or more times during the seven winter seasons 1964/65-70/71. Sex determination was based on wing length, which previously had proved to be a reliable method. The difference between the mean body weights of the sexes was 10.8 grams and highly significant. The seasonal and diurnal differences of the means of the sexes varied between 9.2-11.8 grams. Both the sexes reached their lowest mean weights immediately after arrival at the wintering area and their highest weights just before their departure to the breeding territory. The body weights of males and females increased on an average of 4.2 and 3.7 grams respectively from sunrise to sunset each daytime.
10.2307/3675892|Line transects using estimators proposed by Yapp and Emlen are compared and discussed. The methods are applied to two study plots (approximately 70 resp. 46 ha) in southern Sweden, where 12 and 8 censuses, respectively, were carried out during four weeks in midwinter. The ratio variance/mean of the figures obtained increases multiplicatively with average flock size of the species. The figures may be approximated to a normal distribution for nine of eleven species. There is a rather good agreement between the estimates arrived at with the two methods.
10.2307/3676493|An earlier study showed that, during incubation, predation on Eider Somateria mollissima nests in gull colonies was lower than on nests elsewhere. Surprisingly, Eiders do not strongly favour nesting in gull colonies. One reason for this could be a high risk of nest predation in gull colonies during the Eider laying period, when gulls have not started laying and defending their own eggs. An experiment with artificial nests showed that a higher proportion of nests was preyed upon within than outside gull colonies during the Eider laying period. Hooded Crows Corvus corone often visited gull colonies and apparently preyed upon artificial nests at a higher rate within than outside colonies. These results help to explain the weak nesting association between Eiders and gulls. In ducks, strong nesting associations with larids have only been reported for species that start breeding later than or at the same time as the larids.
10.2307/3676214|When foraging on trunks and branches of dead or decaying spruce trees, it was found that the Great Spotted Woodpecker and Three-toed Woodpecker utilized different feeding strata during October-March. The trees in which the woodpeckers were observed foraging were divided into four approximately equal vertical zones (1=0-1/4, 2=1/4-2/4, 3=2/4-3/4, 4=3/4-4/4). The mean relative heights of the Great Spotted Woodpecker and the Threetoed Woodpecker were 3.5 and 2.0, respectively. The degree of overlapping in foraging heights between the species was greatest in October and March, while the most apparent stratification occurred in January.
10.2307/3676558|Blackbird females were hand-raised in the laboratory and made receptive to song stimulation by long-day conditions and estradiol injections. Playback experiments in an anechoic chamber comparing responses of the females to different conspecific songs and songs of foreign species indicate that females gain information about species identity from the conspecific songs. Not only the complete song seems to have a role in species recognition, but also each of its two components, the long-ranging motif part and the short-ranging twitter part, the latter suggesting an adaptation to a life in dense vegetation.
10.2307/3676434|I analyzed the factors determining the length of the predispersal period in the Spanish Imperial Eagle Aquila adalberti, using the information supplied by 21 radio-tagged young in Doana National Park (SW Spain) in 1986-1988. The average length of the predispersal period was 9.2 d. Urea and uric acid levels in blood, a measure of body condition, were significantly related to the length of this period. The results suggest that factors other than competition with adults, make young disperse as soon as possible. Similarities in the dispersal tendency between siblings from the same brood seem to be an effect of covariance with other factors linked to the nest than a genetically determined behaviour.
10.2307/3676893|In a South Swedish population of Dunlins, males were on average smaller than females. Differences were most pronounced in bill length and body mass. Males arrived at the breeding sites in spring on average 12 d earlier than females, with a tendency for large and long-billed females to arrive earlier than small and short-billed females. A significant positive correlation between date of arrival and start of egg-laying was found in females, but not in males. Previously mated pairs started egg-laying on average 4 d earlier than newly formed pairs. Disassortative mating in relation to size was found in new pairs, so that small and short-billed males, and large and long-billed females nested earlier than average-sized birds. A significant positive correlation was also found between female size and mean egg volume. To explain the observed patterns of mating and sexual size dimorphism, I suggest a combination of sexual and natural (ecological) selection. Small size in males may be energetically advantageous during aerial display and male parental care. Short bills may be selected for when males are feeding in terrestrial habitats during brood-rearing. In females, selection for large size and long bill is probably associated with the production of larger eggs and more efficient feeding in marine littoral habitats, respectively. Selection may also favour large females in intra-sexual competition for mates and food resources.
10.2307/3676198|Plumages of males and females of the Pied Wheatear Oenanthe p. pleschanka (Lepechin, 1770) and the Cyprus Pied Whetear O. p. cypriaca (Homeyer, 1884) are described. Special attention is paid to females of nominate pleschanka. In contrast to the nominate race, cypriaca shows almost no sexual dimorphism in plumage. Several measurements show significant differences between both subspecies; in length of wing there is no overlap in measurements. Males of cypriaca have on the average a larger tail than females, but there is considerable overlap in individual measurements. Biometrical sex differences in nominate pleschanka are not the same for each population. The songs of pleschanka and cypriaca are quite unlike each other. We conclude that it is best to consider cypriaca a separate species.
10.2307/3676003|The winter foraging ecology and habitat use of four sympatric corvid species on agricultural land is described. Overlap in habitat use was mostly high (range = 0.50-0.81). Most individuals of each species occurred on grassland, especially permanent pasture where invertebrate populations were highest. Overlap in intake rates of different prey types and sizes from above or beneath the soil surface, and from animal dung or surface debris, was low (range = 0.15-0.41), except between Jackdaws and Magpies (0.72). Discriminant analysis indicated significant differences in foraging behaviour between species, but Magpies retained little unique niche space.
10.2307/3676332|Warblers trapped in autumn in Denmark and transported out or down their migratory routes showed compensatory reactions directed towards the vicinity of the trapping area. The Emlen funnel technique was used, and the circular statistics follow Batschelet (1965). The directed activities could be considered as bicoordinate navigation towards points (goal areas) at the migratory route. In the course of the migration season the appropriate point probably shifts in a programmed manner down the route. Birds which were kept in a light/dark shifted rhythm did not react to the activity shift as a geographical displacement.
10.2307/3676575|This study is based on an analysis of nest-histories of 574 Wood Warbler nests found in three types of climax stands, viz. ash-alder, oak-hornbeam and coniferous, in Bialowieza National Park, E Poland, in 1976-1979. The nests were built on the ground, usually in shaded places. As a rule they were hidden among low herb vegetation or wedged under branches lying on the ground. The first females arrived between 2 and 7 May in different years, while the first eggs were laid between 8 and 18 May. The majority of clutches were laid within a fortnight of the first eggs laid in the population. On average breeding started earliest in the oakhornbeam and latest in the coniferous habitat. Few females attempted second broods. First clutches usually contained 6-7 eggs. The average clutch size varied between years, declined over the season, and was highest in the most densely populated oakhornbeam stands. The birds produced smaller clutches than the number of young which could be reared. It is suggested that variation in clutch size is an adaptation to changing food availability and variation in predation pressure, and that the maximum clutch size is limited by the size of the nests as well as by trade-offs between the amount of investment in one breeding attempt and the chances to reproduce again. On an average over 70% of nests were lost, one of the highest figures recorded in open nesting birds of the temperate zone. Predators were responsible for over 80% of the losses. Nests with young were four times more likely to be predated than nests with eggs. Predation rates were independent of brood size, but late nests had higher rates of predation. The losses were lowest in the ash-alder stands and highest in the coniferous stands. Due to heavy predation, the yearly production of young per female was scarcely one third of the potential production. Varying predation rates were a main factor responsible for variation in production between years and habitats. Mortality of adults in the breeding season was estimated at 4.3% month<sup>-1</sup> for females and 4.5% month<sup>-1</sup> for males.
10.2307/3676195|The quality of the territory has been suggested to effect breeding success and adult survival in Magpies Pica pica. Magpie territories were arbitrarily divided into three groups, viz. I (territories occupied for a single year), II (territories occupied for 2-7 yr), and III (territories occupied for 8-10 yr during the period 1972-1981). Preferred territories (class III) were composed of preferred feeding habitats. 'Tree-top sitting' took place in high quality territories more often than in low quality ones. Territory intrusions were common in high quality territories. Also 'ceremonial gatherings' occurred most frequently in these territories. Carrion Crows Corvus corone cornix, being common nest predators, occurred most commonly in medium quality territories. Nests were placed higher, although at the same relative height, in high quality territories compared to low quality ones. Nests in class I territories were initiated later than those in class II-III territories. Nearly all nests in high quality territories were placed near buildings. Nest failure was commonest in low quality territories. Replacement nests were built most often in high quality territories. In those territories Magpies spent less time feeding, pecked at a lower and more uniform rate when feeding and moved at a higher speed when feeding compared to low territory quality birds. Magpies flow continuously from low quality to high quality territories as their experience allows them to refill empty spaces arising from death or divorce in other Magpie pairs.
10.2307/3675987|Communities of birds breeding on the Krunnit Islands (northern Gulf of Bothnia) were censused over 20 summers between 1939-72. Four types of islands (A-D), paralleling stages in a primary succession sere, can be distinguished on botanical criteria. In 1936, only the wooded islands (D) had characteristic bird communities, but after protection also the populations on the younger islands recovered. The ornithological and botanical classifications of the islands agree in the latter half of the period. Sterna paradisaea dominates on the boulder skerries (A), Larus fuscus on the grassy skerries (B), L. canus on the grassy islands (C), but no sea-bird species is typical of D. Bird density ranges from 0.5 pairs/ha (D) to 129 p/ha (A), biomass from 0.2 kg/ha (D) to 75 kg/ha (B), and metabolic rate of existence in June from 70 (D) to 26,000 kcal/day  ha (B). Diversity (H) increases with the successional stage of the island from 0.99 to 3.15.
10.2307/3675948|Factors affecting nest success in the Mallard and Tufted duck were studied at one site in 1980 and two sites in 1981 in North Buckinghamshire. Carrion Crows, Magpies and rats were the main predators of clutches, destroying them mainly during the laying period. The proportion of Mallard nests destroyed by predators increased as the minimum height of vegetation around the nest declined. Nests of both species were more successful on islands than those on the mainland and island nests were located in taller vegetation. Generally the closer a Tufted Duck nest was to another nest the greater was the risk of predation. In 1981 nests of both species at one site suffered heavier clutch predation than those at the other and were located in significantly shorter vegetation and were closer together. Tufted Duck nests were more successful than those of Mallard, they bred approximately five weeks later, taking advantage of taller vegetation which was conducive to high nest success.
10.2307/3676790|An individually marked population of the Nuthatch Sitta europaea asiatica was followed during 1986-1990 in the southern part of the Magadan region, Northeastern Siberia. As in European populations of the species, adult Nuthatches were strictly sedentary and lived their lives in permanent territories. Nuthatch territories in Siberia were much larger (averaging 30.2 ha) than those in Europe (about 2-10 ha). Pairs persisted as long as both partners were alive. On average, 50.8% of the pairs survived from one breeding season to the next, a figure very similar to those given for European populations. Young Nuthatches dispersed widely after becoming independent and birds which were born in the study plot were never found later. In contrast to Europe where juveniles always establish their own territories, juveniles in Siberia settled inside the territories of old birds in autumn (usually 1-2 juveniles in the territory of an adult pair). Inside the adults' territory, the juveniles lived in pairs or alone, but never in flocks. Their only chance to become breeders was to replace an adult that died. The first-settled juveniles had the best chance to obtain breeding status. Therefore, although the social organization of the European and Siberian subspecies of S. europaea are similar in many ways, there is a dramatic difference in the way that juveniles establish their territories.
10.2307/3676631|The behaviour and social structure of Svalbard Rock Ptarmigan were studied by direct observation, trapping, weighing, marking, and telemetry from August 1980 to August 1982 on five breeding areas around Ny-lesund. The first cocks arrived there in late March. Until mid April territorial cocks were solitary and hostile towards both cocks and hens. Pairs formed from late April. Mate guarding was conspicuous. Pairs were monogamous until hens started to incubate. Later, promiscuity was common. Territorial cocks banded in 1981 were all found on the same territory in 1982. Some hens changed cock and territory but always within the same breeding area. Birds banded as chicks were never recovered as breeding birds on the area where they were banded.
10.2307/3676764|During spring in 1982 and 1983, 28 male Redwings Turdus iliacus were observed at Songli in Central Norway, from the time of arrival until most had completed reproduction. Function of song was studied by recording changes in singing rate and song structure throughout the breeding season. The singing rate of breeding males decreased significantly when egg-laying started, indicating that song might function in mate attraction and mate retention. Singing rate of individual males correlated positively with the number of simultaneously singing males, which suggests that the song may also function in competition between males. The seasonal variation of the introductory section of the song was negligible, whereas the terminating section became shorter after egg-laying or was omitted altogether.
10.2307/3676752|In foraging groups in the Long Island Sound area of the eastern United States, Roseate Terns Sterna dougalli plunged for longer periods and from greater heights than did Common Terns Sterna hirundo. Roseate Terns were rarer than expected in dense feeding groups where they tended to occur at the peripheries but they were more common than expected in more dispersed groups. Roseates were also more successful per plunge than were Common Terns in dispersed groups. The species appeared to partition food on the basis of patchiness: Common Terns were more successful in large groups over presumably larger patches of prey while Roseate Terns had more success in smaller groups feeding on more dispersed prey.
10.2307/3676431|The Crested Lark Galerida cristata has a much wider geographical range than that of the Desert Lark Ammomanes deserti. Whereas the latter is strictly a desert species, the former inhabits both desert and non desert regions. We measured their niche breadths in an area of sympatry in the Negev desert, along food and habitat dimensions: seed size, and allocation of foraging time to each habitat. Both species share most seed species they consume and forage in the same habitats. But, on both niche dimensions the niches were broader, and the temporal fluctuations in the breadths were higher for the Crested Lark than for the Desert Lark.
10.2307/3675906|Food supply, competitor density, feeding technique and feeding places of Willow Warblers were studied on small islands in Lake Mckeln, southern Sweden and in similar habitats on the mainland nearby. Small insects and spiders were more abundant than larger specimens. Abundance decreased with increasing distance from ground and increased from May to June. Generally the abundance of insects was slightly higher on the mainland than on islands. This was expecially clear for small (< 6 mm) insects. Insects over 12 mm long were common in June, but not recorded in May. From 1976 to 1978 the combined bird population density did not decline on the mainland but decreased by about 24% on the islands. In the Willow Warbler the decline was 51% on the islands but only 10% on the mainland. The density of Willow Warblers was highest on island plots in 1976, but the islands may provide suboptimal habitats for this species. A slight niche expansion, more frequent feeding at and near the trunk, was found for the Willow Warblers on the islands compared with the mainland. Food catching technique remained unchanged.
10.2307/3676154|Annual cycles in plasma levels of luteinizing hormone (LH), testosterone and dihydrotestosterone (DHT), as well as seasonal changes in the ultrastructure of Leydig cells, were studies in free-living adult and juvenile male Great Tits from south-west Sweden. Special attention was paid to the autumn/winter period. Adult males have very few Leydig cells during the autumn, whereas such cells occur in large numbers in the testes of juvenile Great Tits. At the end of the autumn period there is an increase in plasma levels of LH, but not in testosterone, in both age groups. This increase is accompanied by changes in number and ultrastructure of the Leydig cells, especially in adults, so that there is finally no longer any differences between adults and juveniles. For both age groups the ultrastructure of the Leydig cells indicate maximal activity during the winter period, but testosterone levels remain basal. There are no differences in plasma levels of testosterone or LH between juvenile and adult males during the autumn/winter period, except during September when the plasma concentrations of these hormones are significantly higher in juveniles. There is a transitory increase, to maximal values for the year, in plasma levels of LH and testosterone in March. Concomitant with this increase the ultrastructure of the Leydig cells change. The breeding period is characterized by moderate plasma levels of testosterone and LH. There is a trend for higher levels of LH, but not for testosterone, in June. Plasma levels of both hormones are down to basal in July. When testes regress in July, most Leydig cells are in a state of dissolution. Plasma levels of DHT did not show an annual cycle. Ecological and behavioural implications of the results are discussed.
10.2307/3675873|The Goldcrest Regulus regulus in Scandinavia frequently rears two broods which to some extent overlap in time. Both sexes take part in nest-building and in feeding the young, while incubation of the eggs and brooding the featherless young are entirely left to the female (who is not fed by the male). The male may start building the second nest within the territory long before the first clutch has hatched. When the female starts to incubate the second clutch, the male practically alone is responsible for feeding the young of the initial brood, first as nestlings and thereafter as fledglings, until they become independent. As soon as this brood has left the territory, the male then takes his full share in feeding the young in the second nest. Thus, an elaborate division of labour between the mates throughout the breeding period has been established.
10.2307/3676433|We studied feeding behaviour of hen Willow Ptarmigan moulting from white winter plumage to pigmented summer plumage during the progress of snow melting. While still mostly white, the hens usually sat on the snow while feeding on protruding willow and dwarf birch; when partly pigmented on the back, they preferred the border zone between snow and bare ground; and when mostly pigmented they fed exclusively on bare ground. When, due to snow thaw, the hens could no longer reach the protein rich willow, they fed on the protein poor but lower dwarf birch. The results suggest that the hens' feeding strategy during snow melting is a compromise between food quality and optimal camouflage.
10.2307/3676506|The ecology of autumn migrating Bluethroats Luscinia s. svecica of different age and sex classes was investigated at a stopover site in eastern Sweden, and data were used to test predictions from a model for optimal bird migration. Adults and juveniles migrated simultaneously but the migration period of adults was more concentrated. Adults carried more fat and stopped over for a shorter time than juveniles. In contrast to juveniles, adults did not lose mass after arrival and started accumulating fat earlier than juveniles. Adult birds can thus be regarded as more efficient "migrators", a situation consistent with recent data showing that adult Bluethroats migrate at a higher speed than juveniles. Among juveniles, females (being smaller than males) arrived on average three days before males. If females have lower resource-holding potentials than males, the time difference could be due to an allocation of the migration time by females in order to avoid competition. However, no differences in fat deposition patterns or stopover times were found between sexes. The stopover data at least partly support the time-minimization model for optimal bird migration.
10.2307/3676129|During territorial combats the songs of the Willow Warbler male change in a number of parameters from "spontaneous" singing heard in undisturbed situations. The song become shorter, muter and somewhat lower pitched. There is also heard a special type of song (the A-song) which is characterized by the introduction of a special syllable type in the beginning of each song. Although there is a considerable inter-individual variation between songs recorded both in undisturbed and agonistic situations the A-song is shared between all studied territorial males (n = 6). There is also a close temporal connection between A-song and overt attack behaviour from the singer indicating that A-song transmit a message of an increased likelihood that the singer will attack his opponent. During a series of play-back trials when territorial males were exposed either to recordings of 'spontaneous" song types or A-songs there was a marked tendency to approach the speaker as a response to spontaneous songs while A-songs instead evoked tendencies to withdraw. Thus, a test male responds to A-song and other song types in a manner which indicates that the message of an increased likelihood of an attack, following the former has been received.
10.2307/3676624|Great Tits Parus major and Blue Tits P. caeruleus use nest-boxes for roosting in winter. In our study area large-holed boxes which can be used by both Great and Blue Tit, and small-holed boxes which can only be used by the smaller Blue Tit, are available. Most Blue Tits are found roosting in the small-holed boxes. An aviary experiment showed that in the absence of Great Tits, Blue Tits prefer large-holed boxes. Over half of the Blue Tits changed to a small-holed box in the presence of a Great Tit. It is concluded that Blue Tits are forced to use the small-holed nest-boxes, because they are kept out of the large-holed ones by the dominant Great Tit.
10.2307/3676359|The despotic distribution described by Fretwell and Lucas (1970) and the ideal free distribution of individuals differing in competitive ability (Parker and Sutherland 1986) were applied to the evolution of migration patterns. In both theories, dominant individuals monopolize the best resources but dominance is mediated by prior occupancy in the former and by body size in the latter. Additional parameters used were latitudinal suitability gradients for both breeding and wintering, and costs of migration between sites. When migration costs are high, leap-frog migration is the most likely pattern to develop. Chain migration develops when either of two intricate conditions are fulfilled: (1) Both the breeding and the wintering suitability gradients increase towards the north and dominance is due to body size. (2) Breeding suitability increases towards the north and wintering suitability towards the south and dominance is due to prior occupancy. Under special circumstances, no stable pattern is likely to develop.
10.2307/3676029|The sex-ratio of diving ducks during the non-breeding season was studied in southernmost Sweden in 1959-69. Differences in sex-ratio between flocks of different sizes and between different parts of a locality were found in Aythya fuligula and Bucephala clangula. Seasonal variations in sex-ratio were found in all species. Autumn migration was initiated by males in A. fuligula and A. ferina, and by females and immature birds in B. clangula, Mergus merganser and M. albellus. In all these species males initiated spring migration and dominated over the females in most Swedish winter localities. In A. marila the percentage of males increased from autumn to spring, whereas the opposite was found in Clangula hyemalis.
10.2307/3676007|Singing and territorial behaviour were studied in a small population of Wood Warblers in central Sweden. The males' singing activity and length of song phrases decreased significantly after mating. Once the mate was pre-occupied with egg laying and incubation, the male established a second territory elsewhere. Though singing intensively in their secondary territories, males returned frequently to their females in the primary territories. The singing behaviour of a mated male in his secondary territory was similar to that shown by an unmated male in a primary territory. When the eggs hatched, the male stayed with the female and helped feeding the young. In two cases, polyterritoriality led to polygyny. However, both males eventually concentrated their time on the female whose eggs hatched first and deserted the other. Polyterritoriality in the Wood Warbler is rarely observed elsewhere. Possible reasons why all the males in this study were polyterritorial are discussed.
10.2307/3676438|Little is known about the ecological mechanisms that maintain the parapatric ranges and narrow areas of hybridization in the Carrion Crow Corvus c. corone and Hooded Crow Corvus corone cornix. The winter ecology of parental populations and of hybrids was studied in an area of intergradation in NW-Italy. Carrion Crows and Hooded Crows showed sharply different foraging habitat preferences. The former selected pastures and meadows whereas the latter selected maize stubbles. The habitat selected by the two morphs corresponded to those prevailing in the areas of allopatry adjacent to the hybrid zone. Hybrids were less selective than the parental populations. Each of the parental morphs showed a significant tendency to avoid heterotypic flocks. It is concluded that the adaptation to different foraging habitats probably contributes to the maintenance of parapatric distributions by the parental populations and that hybrids may be better adapted to live in the hybrid zone. The assortative composition of the flocks could indicate the existence of pre-mating isolating mechanisms between the crow morphs.
10.2307/3676021|The shell thickness of recent and old eggs, and of shell fragments, from 32 clutches of Peregrines were measured to investigate a possible shellthinning effect during the period following the use of DDT in north-western Europe from 1947 on. The pesticide contents of three recent eggs were also determined. The eggshells of the post-1947 sample were on average 19-23% thinner than the older eggs, depending upon the measuring method used. Up to 1000 ppm of DDTs and PCBs were found in the recent eggs, and one egg also contained 280 ppm dieldrin (values on a lipid basis). These results accord in general with the previously-published data for other Fennoscandian populations of Peregrines, and, at least partly, explain the substantial reduction in numbers of the Norwegian breeding population observed during the past few decades. A significant positive correlation was found between shell thickness and brood size.
10.2307/3676881|Two main questions are discussed: (1) the eastern limit of Dunlin Calidris alpina populations migrating through the Baltic and (2) migration between the Baltic and the Mediterranean/Black Sea. Ringing and moult data show that some Dunlins migrating to the Baltic orignate from more easterly regions than previously presumed. Many Dunlins migrating in autumn through the Baltic are in active moult. Some of them probably start their moult while breeding and originate from areas east of the Urals. These birds show some easily recognized plumage patterns: their new median coverts (usually only some of them) are of "adult buff" type. This is characteristic of Central and Eastern Siberia populations which start moulting very early, while still on their breeding grounds. Ringing data show that these birds winter in western Europe as well as in the Mediterranean. Some Dunlins from the Baltic migrate in autumn in a SE direction - to the Mediterranean and the Black Sea regions. The origin of these birds is not known. The SE direction may be used also by Polish breeding schinzii. Some Dunlins of the sub-species alpina, ringed in the Baltic in autumn, are controlled in spring at the Black Sea; in autumn they seem to migrate along a more northern route - through the Baltic, while in spring they choose a more southern route - through the Black Sea (loop migration).
10.2307/3676176|As part of a study of long-term population changes and their possible causes, about 100 Osprey nests in six areas in southern and central Sweden were investigated twice annually during the period 1971-73. This paper reports on population status and reproductive success and discusses some factors influencing the breeding of the Osprey. Over the census period there was no significant change in the size of the population. The mean clutch size was about 2.88, the mean number of young hatched was calculated as 1.80, and the mean number of young surviving to the age of 4-5 weeks was 1.48. (This figure is used to express the reproductive success in the active nests.) A comparison with figures on brood sizes selected from bird-ringing data indicates a decrease in reproductive success since 1947.
10.2307/3676067|Weights and fat levels in body and liver in six Lapwings and six Oystercatchers starved to death during a cold spell in spring were investigated. Compared with control groups the starved Lapwings and Oystercatchers had 46 and 38% lower total weights respectively. Fat-free dry weights were 45 and 35% lower whereas body fat was drastically reduced by 92 and 91% in the starved groups. Proportional water content was remarkably constant, 71-72% in both species and in normal as well as starved birds. There was an appreciable reduction of dry liver mass which only to a minor part depended on a depletion of liver fat. The reduction of total fat-free dry body is supposed to depend mainly on a mobilization of muscle protein as an energy source when the fat depots are depleted. The reduction of liver dry mass is partly unexplained. It is inferred that such drastic emaciation in birds is uncompatible with life even if environmental conditions are changed before the death of the birds.
10.2307/3675884|The different resting postures of the Mallard were identified and studied in relation to weather. It was found that the weather highly affected the frequencies of the different postures. On overcast days, in summer and in winter with frost, a lying posture with the beak behind the wing was preferred. In summer, the presence of the sun inhibited the tendency to tuck the beak behind the wing. The standing postures were recorded with very high frequencies during precipitation and thaw. On calm, clear days the Mallards preferred to orientate with respect to the sun. Further, a posture, which can be interpreted as sunbathing, is described.
10.2307/3676661|Corticosterone (B) may play a direct role in the promotion of feeding behavior under conditions of nutritional stress. However, effects of exogenous B and nutritional stress in passerines indicate a complex relationship of fed state, perceived or anticipated nutritional stress, and previous history. In a series of investigations on caged White-crowned Zonotrichia leucophrys and Song Sparrows Z. melodia, foraging behaviors and feeding rates were unaffected by exogenous B in fed birds. When food was returned, birds implanted with B refed for longer and with greater intensity following the 24 hour fast. Additionally, B-implanted birds showed lower activity (perch hopping) than controls when fed ad libitum, but when fasted this trend reversed with B-implanted birds showing increased activity and apparent escape behavior. In a second study, small flocks of Pine Siskins Carduelis pinus and Dark-eyed Juncos Junco hyemalis held in aviaries and fasted for 24 hours had higher plasma levels of B than similar flocks that had been allowed to refeed for 1 hour after fasting. However, the highest levels of B in fasted birds were still lower than in free-living conspecifics exposed to capture stress. This low amplitude modulation of plasma B levels in relation to fed state was corroborated by results from free-living Pine Siskins and Lapland Longspurs Calcarius lapponicus captured during snow storms. In spite of unusually high feeding intensities during the storm, individuals of only some Pine Siskins and no Lapland Longspurs had elevated circulating levels of B. In the latter species, serial samples revealed very high levels of B within 15 minutes of capture suggesting enhanced adrenal secretory activity as a result of the storm. Finally, in White-crowned Sparrows, exogenous B substantially reduced overnight metabolic expenditure by reducing the frequency and amplitude of arousal bouts during the night. This suggested a possible energy savings effect of B during the hours when foraging was impossible and, possibly, insurance that the individual will retain sufficient resources to seek food the following day. Taken together, our data suggest that B may be important for initiation of food-searching during periods of food deprivation. Only small increases in B secretion appear to be required thus facilitating a rapid return to homeostasis after food is located. Although under prolonged nutritional stress the basal levels of B remained low, adrenal potential to secrete B in response to further stress increased dramatically.
10.2307/3676197|The frequency distributions of Bullfinch Pyrrhula pyrrhula groups of different size and composition were determined over two successive years. From October to February singletons were the commonest group category. In March and April the modal group size was two, even-numbered groups with equal representation of the sexes were commoner and odd-numbered groups and those with unequal sex representation were rarer than expected. Agonistic encounters occurred at a higher rate in the larger groups but were higher than expected in groups of three and in groups with supernumerary males. Males initiated more agonistic encounters than females and these were almost exclusively directed at other males. Courtship was commoner in groups of three than in pairs, and less frequent in other group sizes. These results are discussed with reference to the influence of social interactions on group size and composition and to the functional significance of aggression in Bullfinches.
10.2307/3676277|The rate of secondary succession in forest birds has been quantified on the basis of the Jaccard, Srensen, and Renkonen indices, and of an index derived from Shannon's measure of diversity. All indices give very similar results. In the Polish oak-hornbeam forest the rate of succession (TR) decreases monotonously with time, but in Finnish coniferous forests (spruce and pine) the TR curves have a peak after 5-25 years from the beginning. The climax characteristically has a turnover rate of less than 10 per cent from that of the initial stages. The logarithms of TR can be expressed satisfactorily as linear functions of time. This is probably not true of TR curves for primary succession, owing to a lengthy period of soil development in primary succession.
10.2307/3675880|Arthropods were the most important source of food for the investigated species during their spring migration. The species showed great flexibility with regard to different groups of prey in successive periods within the same migratory season, and from one year to the next. The overlap in composition of prey taken and in the size of the prey animals is calculated for the species. There was a large variation in the size of both overlaps from period to period within the same year (overlap in prey composition) and from year to year (overlap in prey composition and overlap in prey size). This variation is explained as arising from variations in intensity of interspecific competition. It is assumed that segregation into different prey groups during increased competition is due to segregation into different microhabitats and/or different types of foraging behaviour.
10.2307/3676382|We report an extra-pair copulation (EPC) in the Flammulated Owl Otus flammeolus, the first in strigiforms, and document 21 cases of extra-range movements (ERMs) in this species. Extra-range movements occurred throughout nesting with both sexes participating: males anytime during nesting and females only after their young fledged. Males appear to make ERMs to gain EPCs and later to evaluate resources and the status of males in other areas, whereas females may be assessing the success of nests in adjacent ranges to judge the quality of potential future mates.
10.2307/3676845|Huge numbers of Willow Warblers winter in East Africa, and at Lake Naivasha the Willow Warbler becomes the most abundant species in its guild; in some habitats half the individuals in the guild are Willow Warblers, and most likely such numbers influence the ecology and behaviour of the local species in the guild. In a four-month study restrictions/displacements in the presence, and releases in the absence, of Willow Warblers were observed in several of the local species. In the course of the autumn the Willow Warblers also changed their habitat distribution from groves to woodland, presumably because of interference from the numerous local birds in the grove-habitat. Shortly after arrival the habitat and microhabitat distributions (and foraging behaviour) of the Willow Warblers were almost identical to those of local species such as the Black-bellied Apalis. However, in the course of the autumn and winter clear divergences occurred between the two groups in several ecological and behavioural parameters.
10.2307/3676662|Ptarmigan Lagopus spp. inhabit arctic, subarctic and temperate alpine regions where winter is typically cold and snowy. Low ambient temperatures, however, have little effect on their energy budget. Ptarmigan have a highly insulative white winter plumage which contributes to a very low heat loss. They normally evade exposure to severe cold by roosting in the snow, where ambient temperature usually exceeds their lower critical temperature. Ptarmigan have a diurnal activity pattern and each day collect and store enough food in their crop-sack to last the long winter night. Their digestive system shows seasonal changes in length which apparently adapt the birds to a low quality winter diet. With the exception of high-arctic species, ptarmigan do not store substantial amounts of fat in the winter. The Svalbard Ptarmigan living at 77-80N prepare for winter by depositing large stores of fat (up to 35% of body mass; BM) in autumn. Concurrently there is a marked reduction in their daily energy expenditure which permits such fattening to occur despite the fact that food intake is simultaneously reduced.
10.2307/3676833|A comparison of density of fish (<20 cm) and production of "large" (halfgrown - fledged) Gavia arctica young in 24 oligotrophic lakes in southwestern Sweden revealed a negative relationship between the two variables. High abundance of aquatic insects, suitable as an alternative food to fish for the young, and a low risk of predation by Esox lucius are suggested as two, not mutually exclusive explanations for the higher production of young in lakes with a low density of fish.
10.2307/3676447|White Storks Ciconia ciconia parents were observed to kill their smaller chick in 9 out of 63 nests observed during a three-year study. Infanticidal parents were caring for larger broods and laid larger clutches than non-infanticidal birds. Males killed the chick in 8 out of 9 cases. Victims were born from the last-hatched egg in 4- and 5-egg clutches, they were the lightest in their brood and grew at lower rates than their nestmates during the days preceding their elimination. The last-hatched nestlings in 4-chick broods had lower pre-fledging survival rates than their elder sibs. Potential victims contributed a low fraction to parents' reproductive output, and 4-chick broods were especially costly to raise because parents provisioned them both more frequently and for longer nestling periods. Hence, the presence of an extra chick seems to lower the benefit/cost ratio to parents rearing a large brood once its elder siblings have hatched successfully. If nestlings do not compete aggressively for food, parents would be selected to eliminate the extra chick themselves. This hypothesis could provide an explanation for the existence of parental infanticide also in other species.
10.2307/3676362|We studied patterns of intraclutch egg size variation (profiles) in 53 clutches belonging to a population of Ardea purpurea breeding in the Ebro Delta (North-east Spain) during 1988 and 1989. The analytical method used (MANOVA of repeated measurements) is a substantial improvement relative to those used up to now, which are critically reviewed in the paper. We found no relationship between clutch size and profiles of intraclutch egg size variation. Only year affected profile variation. This is consistent with the view that profiles are outcomes of the interaction between physiological and environmental factors. We also assessed whether laying relatively small last eggs constitutes significant energy savings for females, concluding that the savings are irrelevant in relation to the females' estimated daily energy budgets. We also evaluated the influence of the size of the last-laid egg on the sibling mass hierarchy; its effect was insignificant compared with mass differences arising from asynchronous hatching. In our view, profiles should no longer be indiscriminately considered as adaptive.
10.2307/3676317|A 0.75 g implantable transmitter, suitable for deep body temperature measurements in small 10-20 g birds, is described. It is based on a wellknown blocking oscillator circuit, modern components, and combined with a novel packaging technique. This makes possible reliable temperature measurements to 0.2C accuracy over a 3 weeks period. Design information is given on both the transmitter and a suitable receiving system.
10.2307/3676562|The British wintering population of Wigeon Anas penelope has undergone major distribution changes in recent years, possibly caused by this species' requirement for long undisturbed feeding periods. Diurnal and nocturnal foraging time and intensity were measured in south-west Scotland. Daily energy expenditure was estimated from defecation rate and digestive efficiency, to be <tex-math>$630\ {\rm KJ}\ \text{bird}^{-1}\ {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math>. Wigeon should need to feed for about <tex-math>$14\ {\rm h}\ {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math> to meet this energy requirement. These results are compared with figures for other wildfowl species and their implications for the management of Wigeon stocks are discussed.
10.2307/3676339|The effect of behaviour on the T<sub> b</sub> of ptarmigan chicks was studied in captive and wild birds of different ages and at different ambient temperatures ( T<sub> a</sub>). Newly hatched chicks show inter-brood coordinated periods of brooding and browsing. During browsing T<sub> b</sub> decreases, during brooding it returns to normal. At T<sub> a</sub> from 7 to 10C the newly hatched chicks browse for about 2 min and are brooded for 15 to 30 min. At the end of browsing periods their T<sub> b</sub> average 37.1C, the lowest recorded value was 34.3C. Post browsing T<sub> b</sub> showed little variation with <tex-math>${\rm t}_{{\rm a}}$</tex-math> but increased with age. No hypothermia was found in 3 wk old chicks. The duration of each browsing period increased both with increasing T<sub> a</sub> and with age. If prevented from brooding, the chicks start to utter distress calls when their T<sub> b</sub> drops below 34C and they become lethargic at T<sub> b</sub> below 32C. The sensory input which triggers the chicks' return to brooding (the hen) appears to be the decreased T<sub> b</sub> rather than signals from the hen. T<sub> a</sub> near freezing appear to be a limiting factor for ptarmigan chicks during their first week of life, especially if the food supply is scarce.
10.2307/3676387|Flight display patterns and sound production of Pintail Snipe were studied on the Yamal Peninsula, USSR. Flight displays consisted of an undulating flight with alternating gliding and fluttering, and of 45 dives. Undulating flights had a silent initial phase, and a phase with simple, repeated vocal elements which culminated in a crescendo as the bird dived; as the bird pulled out a 6-syllable vocalization was heard, the latter resembling the vocalization of perched birds after flight display. In dives, fizzing tail-feather sounds were produced in addition to vocalization. Individual flight displays encircled areas about 200 m across. Neighbours often displayed simultaneously, performing non-undulating and non-diving parallel flights, either silently or with monotonously repeated vocal elements. Locations of displaying birds strongly suggested that flight displays function as territorial demarcation. No evidence was found for an aerial lek display, as claimed by some authors.
10.2307/3676588|Spruce Grouse Dendragapus canadensis were studied on a 247 ha main study area from 1965 to 1985 and on 31 additional areas (25.9-61.3 ha) in 1984 in southwestern Alberta. Numbers of cocks and/or hens were estimated annually with the use of transects, dogs, and/or playbacks of a hen's aggressive call. In addition, radio transmitters were placed on 28 cock and 65 hen Spruce Grouse on the main study area during 1982-84. Results showed that production (chicks per hen) and recruitment (yearling proportion) both declined between 1965 and 1985 (P < 0.05) on the main area when mean tree height increased from 7.3 m to 10.6 m. Radio-marked cock and hen Spruce Grouse selected habitats with relatively short trees, high tree cover, sparse shrub cover, and low densities of Populus spp., Pinus contorta and Picea glauca. Densities of territorial cock Spruce Grouse on 31 additional areas were negatively correlated with canopy height (P = 0.015). Overall, results indicated that densities of Spruce Grouse may be related to the successional stage of lodgepole pine forest.
10.2307/3676500|Male Bronzy Sunbirds Nectarinia kilimensis demonstrated a decrease in territoriality when fed a sucrose solution in addition to the nectar they foraged from flowers in their territories. They permitted more intruders in their territories, were slower to attack the intruders, and were absent from their territories more than when they had no added sucrose solution. This relaxation of territoriality was not due to either increased nectar in flowers or increased intruder pressure. Neither variable changed. Apparently the experience, or physiological consequences, of ingesting sucrose solution constituted the mechanism by which these birds assessed the economic defensibility of territoriality.
10.2307/3676244|A local population (22-27 pairs) of the Willow Warbler Phylloscopus trochilus L., studied in 1972-1978, was almost stable (18-20 pairs, CV = 5%) in the deciduous part of the study area, but more variable (4-7 pairs, CV = 28%) in the spruce-dominated part. The annual survival rate of the highly site-tenacious adult males was about 41%, but only 17% of the breeding females returned in the subsequent year. Adult mortality was low during the breeding season. The mean clutch size decreased after y = -0.060x + 6.51 eggs during the season (x is the day of the first egg, x = 0 on 31 May). Timing differences of the breeding season explained almost all annual differences of the mean clutch size. Nesting mortality was higher when the nestlings were 0-7 d old than during other phases of the whole nesting period, but this was due to human disturbance increasing the vulnerability of some nests to predation. No significant differences in the nesting success between years, parts of the study area, stage of the breeding season, or broods of different sizes were found. Estimated with the Mayfield method, only about 34% of the eggs laid produced fledglings, but probably more than 50% if the effect of disturbance is corrected for.
10.2307/3675952|The diets of Barn Owls and Long-eared Owls were compared during two consecutive nesting seasons in the Snake River Birds of Prey Area in southwestern Idaho, U.S.A. Over 12800 prey items were identified. Both species fed almost exclusively on small mammals. Microtus were the most important Barn Owl prey, while Long-eared Owls fed primarily on Peromyscus and heteromyid rodents. Nesting Barn Owls were more closely associated with irrigated agriculture than were Long-eared Owls. The feeding niche of Barn Owls was narrower than that of Long-eared Owls the first year but wider the next. Dietary overlap was 48.4% the first year and 60.9% the next. In comparison with other North American studies of sympatric Barn Owls and Long-eared Owls, the owls in our study had wider feeding niches and a reduced dietary overlap. Mean weights of Barn Owl prey were significantly heavier than those of Long-eared Owl prey thus Barn Owl prey weight distributions were shifted towards heavier prey than were those of Long-eared Owls. Differences in habitat use, food niche breadth and prey size are potentially important coexistence mechanisms.
10.2307/3676027|An Eider (Somateria mollissima (L.)) population of 3300 pairs was studied on West-Spitsbergen in 1964 and 1967. Onset of egg-laying depended on the breakage of ice-contact with mainland. Arctic Foxes destroyed almost all nests on the mainland and on islands where foxes remained. Predation on eggs varied according to the type of nesting community. The most favourable nest location was in colonies of Arctic Tern and in dense parts of dense Eider colonies, while the least favourable was in sparse parts of dense Eider colonies. Of all eggs laid, 27% hatched and 73% were consumed by predators. Glaucous Gull was the most important predator. The gull predation on young was heavy on land, but when broods reached water, predation was insignificant. Very soon after hatching, the females and the young migrated from the fiords to the open coast. Ecological and behavioural adaptations to predation and climate are discussed.
10.2307/3676494|The Icelandic- and Greenlandic-breeding Pink-footed Goose Anser brachyrhynchus population increased from 48,000 to 172,000 between 1960 and 1987. This growth can be explained by a survival rate of 89% based on observed breeding success. There is no evidence of density dependent factors operating on the population, and over 50% of the variance in an index of productivity was related to meteorological variables on the wintering grounds in spring prior to departure and on the nesting areas. The similar expansion in numbers of Greylag Geese A. anser nesting in Iceland and wintering in Britain from 30,000 in 1960 to 105,000 in 1987 showed survival rates of 91%, and over 70% of the variance in an index of breeding success could be explained by similar multiple regression models incorporating meteorological variables. Added evidence of the importance of meteorological variables, especially in Iceland, was provided by the close correlation between the annual productivity of the two species. With increasing population size, greater effort is required for adequate census, a problem compounded by the development of a wintering population in Ireland and a trend towards increasing numbers remaining in Iceland. The need for year-specific mortality estimates for use in full population models for both species is confirmed.
10.2307/3675934|The selection of islands by shorebirds was studied using 32 islands in an archipelago in SE Norway. The density of breeding birds, the substrates, the proportion of different vegetation types, and various topographic characteristics were studied. The most important factors influencing the selection of island type were area and height of the island and distance to the mainland. Three groups of species were separated on the basis of their selection of major habitat types: Sterna hirundo and S. paradisaea selected small boulder skerries in the outer archipelago; Larus canus, L. ridibundus and Haematopus ostralegus small grassy islands in the inner archipelago; and L. fuscus, L. argentatus, L. marinus, and Somateria mollissima vegetation-free islands in the outer archipelago. This pattern seems to be similar in most Fennoscandian archipelagos, probably because the species are widely distributed and the same ultimate factors influence their choice of island type. With one exception, competition for nest sites did not seem to play any important role in the habitat selection of the species studied.
10.2307/3676474|Effects of ambient temperature ( T<sub> a</sub>), and food availability and quality on growth and survival of Willow Ptarmigan chicks Lagopus l. lagopus were investigated in the laboratory. Under standard food conditions, growth increased with increasing T<sub> a</sub>. Only a persisting sub-zero T<sub> a</sub> affected survival. Because of changes in the chicks' behaviour a 67% reduction of food availability did not affect their growth and survival. When food was available only 22% of the time, however, all chicks died within 5 d after hatching, irrespective of T<sub> a</sub>. Even small reductions in food quality strongly affected growth and survival. Food intake was always correlated with body weight, irrespective of age, T<sub> a</sub>, and food quality. These results indicate that young ptarmigan chicks are unable to compensate for increased energy expenditure and reduced food quality with increased food intake. Therefore the availability of high quality food seems to be crucial for their growth and survival, while low ambient temperatures per se seem to be of little consequence.
10.2307/3676173|In line transect censuses of breeding birds, each observation belongs either to the 'main belt' (extending to 25 m on both sides of the observer) or to the 'supplementary belt'. Estimates of density have earlier been derived from the main belt data (method A). A recent method (B) makes it possible to use all data accumulated during a census; thus the available body of data becomes roughly five-fold under Finnish conditions. Method B is shown to reduce the variances of density estimates considerably if data from other areas can be used in the calculation of the so-called main belt percentages. If not, the methods are essentially similar. Method B, however, diminishes interobserver variation in the estimation of the distance of birds. An important quantity required by method B, k, can be estimated from a simple, practically unbiased formula, unless the number of observations made on the species in all censuses is very small. A sample size of 20 is found to be sufficient to produce small variances of k; smaller samples yield quite heterogeneous estimates for similar species. Reliability of line transect censuses can be enhanced by method B if the main belt percentages of a given species do not vary considerably in larger regions, or if the possible variation can be corrected by general formulae.
10.2307/3676412|Fifteen percent of Red-crested Pochard Netta rufina clutches were parasitized by Common Pochards Aythya ferina, and 22% by conspecifics. There were no differences in the characteristics of nesting sites and fates between parasitized and unparasitized nests. Nest diameter was greater in parasitized than in unparasitized nests, but no differences were found in nest depth according to nest category. Red-crested Pochard nests parasitized by conspecifics were initiated earlier than the other nest types. The clutch sizes of Red-crested Pochards were similar in nests parasitized by Common Pochards and in unparasitized nests. More Red-crested Pochard eggs were displaced outside the nest bowl in parasitized than in unparasitized nests. In addition, the proportion of incubated Red-crested Pochard eggs containing dead embryos was greater in parasitized than in unparasitized nests, probably because incubation was less efficient in parasitized nests. This was suggested by a significant relationship between nest diameter and hatching success in parasitized nests, as eggs distributed in fewer layers may receive better incubation. Females ejected more eggs from smaller than larger parasitized nests, probably to reduce the number of egg layers, thus improving the hatching success of the eggs remaining in the nest bowl.
10.2307/3676591|Felling experiments in core winter habitats of Capercaillie Tetrao urogallus were carried out at Varaldskogen in southeast Norway in 1985-1990. Careful thinning (resulting density <tex-math>$500-800\ \text{trees}\ {\rm ha}^{-1}$</tex-math>) did not affect later use by Capercaillie, whereas heavily thinned areas (<tex-math>$300-400\ \text{trees}\ {\rm ha}^{-1}$</tex-math>) were apparently abandoned by the birds. After removal of pine trees used for feeding in previous winters, the birds were mainly found in the neighbouring control area. Removal of spruce trees did not affect later use by hens, whereas cocks were mainly recorded in the control area where spruces were still present. Both structural features (tree density and tree species composition) and the presence of certain feeding trees seem to be of importance in winter habitat selection by Capercaillie.
10.2307/3676100|A second chick was introduced to 14 Razorbill nest sites on Skokholm, the day after the true chick hatched. All the sites were under boulders so twinned chicks could be weighed each day. Control observations were on nests with single chicks elsewhere on the island. Feeding rates and amount of food/nest-site/day were increased in pairs with twins, though twinned chicks grew significantly slower than the controls. In only two of the 14 sites did both chicks survive to fledging, giving a breeding productivity of 0.83 young/nest, compared with 0.64 for single chicks. Failure of the second chick was the result of unsuccessful competition for food (9 cases), and due to the apparent breakdown in the normal fledging behaviour of one of the adults (5 cases).
10.2307/3676722|Wing and tail feather moult in Barred Warblers was studied during three summers in SE Sweden. Birds arriving at their breeding grounds had on average 3.2-4.9 fresh secondaries and 3.9-9.4 fresh tail feathers, most certainly moulted in winter quarters. A few primaries and tertials had also been renewed. After breeding, normally all primaries and tertials were moulted. Primary moult duration was approximately 40 d for the individual and 60 d for the population. On average, only 0.7-1.4 secondaries were shed. No individuals renewed any winter-grown secondaries the following summer. Normally, 3-4 (mainly central) tail feathers were moulted. Thus, Barred Warblers moult primaries, tertials and central tail feathers in summer, and secondaries and a varying number of tertials and tail feathers in winter. The juvenile winter moult of secondaries shows that the seasonally divided flight feather moult is actively initiated already in the first winter; this is interpreted as a preparation for an early departure from breeding grounds the following summer. This moult pattern has not previously been documented in European passerines.
10.2307/3676527|In a 6 yr study of Willow Grouse diet, Vaccinium species dominated crop contents in autumn, together with Eriophorum species in spring. During winter, a diet dominated by shoots and catkins from mountain birch Betula pubescens var. tortuosa was eaten. In vitro digestibility, protein and ash levels of crop contents were 24-34% lower, while fibre content was 20% higher in winter than in the other seasons. Marked annual variation in the yield of mountain birch shoots and catkins were registered. The yield of shoots showed a gradual 4-yr increase followed by a marked decline in the following year. The percentage of different birch parts in late winter crop contents, and their chemical composition, varied significantly between years. Annual variation in winter diet composition as well as the fat level of grouse were to a large extent related to food abundance. Multiple regression equations showed that 92-96% of the observed variability in grouse fat levels was accounted for by the yield of mountain birch shoots and catkins. In spring, large annual variation in species composition of the food was related to variation in the in vitro digestibility. This food quality parameter was positively correlated with the size of the fat reserves of breeding females, which in turn was related to breeding success, indicating that maternal nutrition affects Willow Grouse reproduction. However, the two worst grouse breeding years were associated with declines in the populations of small mammals, so that predator "switching" may have contributed to the low grouse reproductive success. On the other hand, nutrition alone may have been responsible for the synchrony.
10.2307/3676677|Foraging behavior and diet of male and female Emerald Toucanets were studied at Monteverde, Costa Rica during both wet and dry seasons to determine if sexual dimorphism in bill morphology was related to differences in feeding behaviors between sexes. Based on analysis of museum specimens, bills of males averaged about 20% longer than those of females and the sexes could be reliably distinguished based on differences in bill morphology. Analysis of foraging sequences as first-order Markov chains revealed no differences between sexes or seasons in relative height, relative position in a plant, or foraging substrate. Regardless of season, both male and female toucanets foraged on twigs in outer portions of the mid-canopy. Seasonal differences existed in foraging height above ground, time spent in a single foraging bout, and distance moved between foraging bouts. However, the only within-season difference between sexes was that an average foraging bout during the dry season was longer for females than for males. Toucanets were observed eating fruits, mostly berries, and flowers from 47 species of plants. Fruits consumed in the wet season were larger and heavier than those consumed in the dry season, but no obvious within-season differences existed between sexes in size, color, or type of fruit consumed. We conclude that sexual dimorphism in bill morphology of Emerald Toucanets is not related to differences in foraging behavior or diet. Because of the nature of the resource, foraging-related sexual dimorphism should be rare in frugivorous birds.
10.2307/3676788|We analyzed variation in anti-predator behaviors by Willow Ptarmigan during the incubation period, in relation to several characteristics of the nest and parents. Defense behaviors were ranked in terms of the risk taken by parents, i.e. their proximity and conspicuousness to the predator. Defense levels by females increased with stage among first nests, were higher overall for first than for second nests (renests), increased with the age class of the pair, and correlated positively with the female's condition before incubation. Female clutch defense did not vary with clutch size or any measure of realized nesting success. Male defense levels and the distance males were initially found from the nest did not correlate with any features of the nest or parents, and male and female defense levels were not correlated. We suggest that defense by females is related to the value of the present brood, weighed against the female's body condition. Together with previous experiments, our results suggest that males do not fine-tune their level of defense to the potential contribution of offspring to the parents' reproductive success.
10.2307/3676860|Fisher (1930) argued that the overall parental expenditures on the male and on the female progeny are fixed at equality by natural selection. Taking the primary sex ratio, the parental costs of rearing young of each sex, and the possible existence of differential mortality rates into account, we have constructed a model to test this theory, using data obtained for the Rook Corvus frugilegus and other bird species to illustrate the properties of the model. The metabolic rates of nestling Rooks of both sexes at rest were dependent on their ages and body weights. The parent Rooks were found to have to invest about 10% more energy in a male than a female offspring during the period of parental care. Nevertheless, in support of Fisher's theory, an average pair of Rooks seems to invest an equal proportion of their energy resources in progeny of both sexes, because the total energy investment in their progeny by a population is evened out by a skewing in the mortality rate, whereby more male than female offspring die before independence and at a later age.
10.2307/3675958|Predation on nests in natural tree holes and in nest-boxes was studied in deciduous and mixed deciduous/coniferous forests at Stenbrohult, South Sweden, during 1972-1980. Predation was the major cause of total nest failure. Predation rates on nests in natural holes were higher than in nest-boxes for the Great Tit Parus major and the Pied Flycatcher Ficedula hypoleuca, while no significant difference was found for the Blue Tit Parus caeruleus and the Marsh Tit Parus palustris. In tits, wood-peckers were responsible for 17% of the predation on nests in natural cavities but for 48% on nests in boxes. Of nests that were preyed upon, woodpeckers destroyed a lower proportion of those of the Great than of those of the Blue Tit and the Marsh Tit. Minimum nest entrance widths were correlated with the size of the species. Depths of nesting holes were generally similar for different species, but the Blue Tit occupied shallower holes than did the Great Tit. The Starling Sturnus vulgaris, the Nuthatch Sitta europaea, and the Blue Tit occupied holes higher up in the trees than did the Great Tit and the Pied Flycatcher, in accordance with results of other studies. Contrary to what has been found in these, Marsh Tits nested very low. Total rates of nest-failure and predation were greater in low nests than in higher ones for the Starling, the Blue Tit, and the Marsh Tit. Differences between species in nest predation rates in natural holes could be explained by the vulnerability of the nest sites to predators. For the Starling, the Nuthatch and the Blue Tit average nest heights were negatively correlated with their respective population densities. For the Marsh Tit there was no such correlation, but its nest heights correlated negatively with the density of superior nest competitors. Independent nest preference and utilization data suggest that all four species that vary their nest heights in relation to density prefer to nest high. This indicates that there is competition for safe nest sites. The preference for nest sites higher up in the trees is adaptive and I suggest that predation is the factor that has selected for this preference. The Starling reduced the breeding success of the Nuthatch by taking over holes occupied by the latter. The proportion of Nuthatch nesting attempts that failed because of such interference was higher in high nests and when the population density of the Nuthatch was high.
10.2307/3676635|During a nine-year study of Capercaillie almost twice as many female as male chicks were reared, but there were no more hens than cocks in the adult population. Both the proportion of male chicks in late summer each year, and mean brood size, were related to the chicks' condition in July. Condition was related to the number of days with rain in early June, during and just after hatching. The breeding density of hens each year varied between 4.0 and <tex-math>$8.0\ {\rm km}^{-2}$</tex-math> but was related neither to their density in the previous year nor to the production of female chicks in the intervening summer. The best predictive model was simply that breeding densities would return to their mean each year. It was inferred that breeding densities were determined by density-dependent losses and gains involving emigration and immigration. Autumn densities of young and old birds were not related to breeding densities and breeding success, but were inversely related to the proportion of broods which disappeared, and probably emigrated, during the summer.
10.2307/3676087|To study the influence of the food supply in winter on populations of Great and Blue Tits, food was provided in study plots during two winters. After the first winter, Great Tits increased in the experimental plots whereas they decreased in control areas. After the second winter when beech mast was present, the number of Great Tits increased in all areas; the increase was no larger in the experimental plots than in the controls. A higher proportion of first year birds survived (or stayed) in the experimental woods than in a control. The Blue Tit population seemed unaffected by the provision experiment.
10.2307/3676151|Social behaviour of the Rook Corvus frugilegus was studied in a rookery near Trondheim, Central Norway, and related to parental investment. The female expands relatively little energy in reproduction, however, because she is dependent on her mate for food during most of the breeding season she may suffer a lot by mating with a qualitatively poor male. The results suggest that the rate at which the male feeds the female during the incubation period may affect the ability of the female to invest in her brood during its later stages, and thus the brood survival. Guarding the nest and the nestlings, also represents an important part of the parental care by the female. The reproductive costs of the male are more closely comparable with his energy expenditure in contrast to the female, because he invests a large part of his energy expenditure in the young.
10.2307/3676150|Promiscuity has been shown to occur among many colonial, monogamous, bird species, among them the Rook Corvus frugilegus. This paper show evidence that the male Rook achieves a selective advantage in adapting a mixed reproductive strategy, i.e. beside being strongly monogamous also is a promiscuous bird. However, the young females did copulate significantly more often with promiscuous males compared to the old females, at least during the period when the eggs had the greatest chance of becoming fertilized. The female Rook may, under certain circumstances, benefit by accepting several males as fathers for their offspring, and may therefore copulate willingly with some of the promiscuous males.
10.2307/3676466|Numbers of Common Terns Sterna hirundo foraging on butterfish Peprilus tricanthus commensal on jellyfish Cyanea capillata had a logistic relation with numbers of host jellyfish passing through a foraging area. Increasing numbers of terns did not affect success per dive, whereas turnover, the percentage of birds leaving the foraging area, was highest at intermediate numbers of terns and depressed at higher densities. These data suggest that competition occurred for access to available food and that increased numbers of birds depressed foraging success.
10.2307/3676068|Migrating Crane flocks were tracked over southern Sweden with a tracking radar and an aircraft. Air speeds and rates of climb in thermals were recorded, and behaviour was observed. The Cranes flew faster than soaring theory would predict, and also used varying amounts of muscle power on the interthermal glides. We estimate that their use of thermals and "partially powered" glides substantially reduced the energetic cost of flying unit distance, but at the expense of a reduction in average speed. The behaviour required for soaring is elaborate, and the selection pressures for and against it are discussed. Crane flocks were seen to split up and recombine in a way which suggested that they were not stable social units.
10.2307/3676468|"Fright moulting" has been recorded in several orders of birds and interpreted as a way of escaping a predator when already caught. Two observations suggest that the behaviour may have another function, viz. when an aerial predator chases the prey. By shedding body feathers in the air the bird creates a cloud behind it; this might confuse the predator in the same way as the ink of octopuses confuse their predators.
10.2307/3676211|A population of approx. 30 Whitethroats were studied during the breeding seasons in 1965 and 1967 to 1970 at Fgelsngsdalen near Lund in South Sweden (55 42N, 13 20E). Most territories were about 1 ha, a territory being the area within which all activities normally took place. For the habitat selection the following key factors were found: a) two or more conspicuous song posts, b) vegetation suitable for nestsite, and c) presence of singing Whitethroat males. In the beginning of the breeding season when the vegetation was low, the nests were built on the ground, but later above it. The location of the nests corresponded with the distribution of thorny bushes, nettles and the like.
10.2307/3675969|Breeding land bird communities of two islands in the land archipelago were studied. On Gsholmen (14 ha) a one-visit census covered the whole island, while on Bockholm (38 ha) two line transect censuses were made through the island and conversion coefficients were used to derive estimates of total numbers. The results were compared with those of mapping censuses. The proportion of breeding species observed in the one-visit censuses was 89% on Gsholmen and 88% on Bockholm; the percentages agree with theoretical expectations derived by rarefaction. On Gsholmen, 70% of the breeding pairs were observed in the one-visit census. On Bockholm, the estimate of the total density was 95% of the mapping result; the high apparent efficiency was probably a consequence of a biased distribution of habitats along the transects. Shannon's diversity, rarefaction curves, and the species-abundance distributions derived from the logseries model were similar in both censuses on both islands. The conclusion was drawn that one-visit censuses are adequate for quantitative comparisons of community parameters of island bird communities. A special problem is posed by surplus species (and individuals), either visitors from neighbouring islands or non-breeding individuals. The possible existence of transients in the observation data of one-visit censuses must be taken into account in interpreting the results.
10.2307/3676899|The mass gain and the incidence of starvation of nestling Wheatears Oenanthe oenanthe L. were recorded in two East Swedish study areas. Some broods were manipulated. A rough estimate of the degree of hatching asynchrony was derived from the number of daily visits between hatching of the first and last chicks of the brood. Mass gain in 23 broods was fitted to a logistic equation and the growth rate (K=0.50), asymptote (A=22.3 g) and time to reach the inflection point (<tex-math>${\rm t}_{50}=5.4$</tex-math>) were calculated. For comparisons between broods the linear growth rate on days 3-8, the mean plateau masses for days 9-15, the mean maximum masses attained, and the mean final masses on days 13-15, were used. Growth rates and plateau masses were not obviously related. Brood size and degree of hatching asynchrony had no effect on these growth parameters, while brood enlargements and reductions affected differently growth rates and plateau masses. These patterns suggest an adjustment of brood size to the ability of individual parents to provide adequate care for their nestlings. Starvation mortality peaked shortly before fledging after being low for the first 10 d of nestling development. Changes in mass rank during the plateau phase were very infrequent among the lowest ranked nestlings in all broods. Asynchronous broods had significantly larger steps between ranks than synchronous broods during the plateau phase, indicating an absence of early brood reduction. Large mass deficits existed throughout the nestling period. These patterns indicate that brood reduction is inefficient in this species and its association with hatching asynchrony unclear.
10.2307/3675927|Mean territory size decreased gradually from 7.5 ha in 1979 to 4.3 ha in 1982 and increased sharply to 7.8 ha in 1983. During the same period, mean territory size was inversely proportional to breeding density in the current spring, and to chick production in the preceding summer. It is suggested that the fluctuation in mean territory size was predominantly affected by changes in the intruder pressure caused by young cocks, but was also associated with a change in the aggressive state of territorial cocks. Mean territory size of young and old cocks did not differ significantly. Mated cocks had significantly larger territories, weighed significantly more, and survived better than unmated cocks. Some indirect evidence for the existence of a surplus population was found.
10.2307/3676002|Geographical trends in demographic traits were studied in Swallow Hirundo rustica and House Martin Delichon urbica from populations in the western Palaearctic. Clutch size increased with latitude in Swallow second clutches and with longitude in House Martin second clutches. The number of broods per season decreased latitudinally and for the House Martin longitudinally as well. The number of eggs per pair per breeding season thus decreased with latitude in both species and with longitude in the House Martin. It is suggested that the difference in the longitudinal response between the two species is due to the higher and thus more weather-influenced foraging niche of the House Martin. Hatchability of House Martin eggs increased with latitude. Between year population size variations increased with latitude in the Swallow. Ashmole's (1961) hypothesis did not account for geographical trends in clutch size. Geographical variation in nest predation could not explain variance in clutch size. Royama's (1969) model on clutch size trends taking food availability, time available for feeding and the temperature-dependent energy requirements of young into consideration explained a large fraction of the variance in clutch size among both species. The absolute metabolic level of the nestlings decreased from north to south.
27669753|In spring 1979 the Wader Study Group organised a co-operative project to study the spring migration of Siberian Knots Calidris c. canutus from their west and south African wintering grounds to the breeding grounds in central Siberia. S. African wintering birds migrate via the western seaboards of Africa and Europe. Siberian Knots seem to use only a few staging sites between W. Africa and Siberia. Most birds only use the W. German Wadden Sea. Staging areas of lesser importance are the Tejo Estuary in Portugal, the Vende coast in France and, probably, the Westerschelde in SW Netherlands. At the latter three sites in early May, birds appear to arrive with lower body weights than in Schleswig-Holstein (W. Germany) at the same time. The migration from W. Germany to central Siberia is most probably made in one flight via the Gulf of Finland. Detailed information on the timing of migration is presented. A model on body weight changes during migration in a fixed time schedule is employed to discuss the energetic constraints on the migration strategy of Siberian Knots.
10.2307/3676112|Three patterns of post-hatching development are exhibited in the Alcidae. Four species are truly precocial, 15 are semi-precocial, and three show a pattern intermediate between these patterns. In the semi-precocial species, where the young are fed in the nest by the parents until fully feathered and nearly adult size, diverse growth rates are evident. The feeding ecologies of the species are considered to have been an important factor in the evolution of these developmental patterns and growth rates.
10.2307/3676879|We manipulated clutch size in a Swedish breeding population of Pied Flycatchers to investigate effects of clutch size on the costs of incubation. Clutches were enlarged respectively reduced with 2 eggs (18 clutches in each group) and compared with 29 simultaneously laid control clutches. There was no relationship between experimental clutch size and laying date. The length of incubation increased significantly with clutch size in a nonlinear fashion. This was mainly due to enlarged clutches being incubated for on average one day longer than control and reduced clutches. Hatching asynchrony also increased significantly with clutch size due to prolonged hatching of enlarged clutches. Hatching success was not affected by the experimental treatment. Females incubating enlarged clutches lost significantly more mass both absolutely and relatively than those incubating reduced clutches. Incubation feeding by males had a positive effect on female nest attendance, but males did not increase feeding rates in larger clutches. High rates of <tex-math>${\rm CO}_{2}\text{-production}$</tex-math> were measured in 5 of 6 birds with the doubly-labeled water (<tex-math>${\rm D}_{2}{}^{18}{\rm O}$</tex-math>) technique. In these incubating females, daily energy expenditure amounted to 3-4 BMR, which shows that incubation can be costly in this species. The effects found could affect reproductive success directly and by impairing the capacity to care for nestlings and fledglings.
10.2307/3676407|Spatial and temporal variation in the number of breeding pairs, site-tenacity of adult females, laying date, clutch size and reproductive success of the Pied Flycatcher was studied in 1987-1989 in two areas 35 km apart in northern Scandinavia and related to weather conditions, plant phenology and predation. One study area was situated in a relatively productive and mild forest zone (Skibotn, 6920N), the other further south in a harsh zone of mountain birch forest (Kilpisjrvi, 6903N). The hypothesis of no spatial difference was rejected for number of pairs, site-tenacity, laying date, clutch size and breeding success. Both areas showed considerable between-year variation in several breeding variables. At Skibotn, egg-laying started 7 d after birch-leafing; at Kilpisjrvi, 5 d before. Birch-leafing occurred 18 d earlier at Skibotn than at Kilpisjrvi, to be compared with the difference of only 6 d in laying date. At Skibotn, clutch size averaged 6.2 and number of fledglings per nest 3.6; at Kilpisjrvi 5.5 and 2.9. At Kilpisjrvi, breeding success seemed to be limited by cold weather; at Skibotn by predation. Site-tenacity of adult females was relatively low in both areas: 5% at Skibotn and 11% at Kilpisjrvi.
10.2307/3676914|In colonial Herring Gulls, neighbours are often the main cause of lowered reproductive output. Previous studies have claimed a relationship between nesting success and nest-density. I monitored breeding performance in a small Herring Gull colony for 7 years (1982-1988). During the study, pair numbers varied between 26 and 47. This variation produced pronounced differences in the spatial circumstances for breeding, as mean neighbour distances varied between years. In general, the colony became less dense as pair numbers decreased, but during one year the pairs clustered more tightly than a linear relationship would have predicted. I also found a strong relationship between the number of fledged chicks produced per pair and density. Production ranged between 1.22 and 2.37 fledged young <tex-math>$\text{pair}^{-1}$</tex-math>, being depressed in high-density years. In high-density years, more chicks disappeared from the nests, indicating that intraspecific predation was higher in these years. I was able to rule out some other factors which may have affected production. The results show that Herring Gulls sometimes breed at densities that are clearly suboptimal, and emphasize the importance of colony selection.
10.2307/3676452|In a 3-year study of the Northern Masked Weaver Ploceus taeniopterus in Kenya, I determined that fewer than 1% of the nests of this species had been parasitized by Chrysococcyx cuckoos. This rate of heterospecific parasitism is low when compared with the rate of parasitism by conspecifics, and I conclude that heterospecific nest parasitism has been a relatively unimportant factor in selecting for egg-color variability and egg-recognition ability in Ploceus weavers. I show that I could readily distinguish cuckoo eggs from weaver eggs, and I discuss the circumstances surrounding the six known or suspected cases of cuckoo parasitism that I detected.
10.2307/3675899|Differences in foraging behaviour and spatial distribution of male and female Curlew Sandpipers are described. Males and females occurred more often in segregated than in mixed groups, and agonistic behaviour was more frequent in single-sex than in mixed groups. Females foraged faster than males and achieved a higher success rate. It is suggested that competition on the breeding grounds rather than on the wintering grounds may favour sexual dimorphism in the species, since food does not appear to be limiting in southern Africa.
10.2307/3676595|Despite the importance of compensatory mortality in setting harvest levels, few studies of tetraonids treat it directly. Total compensation for shooting mortality among adults in populations subjected to significant shooting (harvest rate over 5%) has been demonstrated only in Red Grouse Lagopus lagopus scoticus, and perhaps in Ruffed Grouse Bonasa umbellus. Only in Red Grouse is there direct evidence for total compensation for shooting in juveniles. Considerable indirect evidence for total or partial compensation comes from comparison of densities on shot and unshot areas, density dependent losses, normal sex ratios where only males are shot, and removal experiments showing that replacement birds exist in spring. The indirect evidence is weak owing to lack of control of immigration and doubt about the fate of "surplus" birds. Compensatory natality has rarely been detected in tetraonids.
10.2307/3675991|When their breeding is finished, adult White Wagtails leave their territories and spend the night in common roosts. At the same time the postnuptial moult sets in. Some birds, especially females, start moulting while still conducting young from the second brood in the territory. A comparison reveals that there is little difference in moult-status between birds caught on roosts and birds caught on territories.
10.2307/3676098|A suburban Blackbird population in southern Sweden was censused in eight breeding seasons (1968-1974, 1976), and the number of territories found to vary between 50 and 79. The number of territories correlated negatively with the severity of the preceding winter. The mean density over the eight years was 2.4 territories/ha which is similar to densities in suburban areas in Britain and continental Europe. Differences in density existed between structurally different parts of the main study area and also between those and another (new-built) area censused in 1975. These differences correlated with the amount of cover (tall shrub) available, seemingly acting as cues for the Blackbirds' habitat selection.
10.2307/3676567|Two models are developed that demonstrate how changes in density of freshwater fish and ensuing changes in water transparency affect prey encounter rate in fish-eating birds. "Pursuit divers" (e.g. divers and mergansers), which search for food while swimming with their eyes below the water surface, may be compensated for reduced densities by increases in transparency. "Surface plungers" (e.g. terns, fish-eating raptors) can reach prey only in the uppermost volume of water, so increases in transparency cannot compensate for declines in fish density. Only by an increase in search height can the extent of the surveyed volume of water where fish are available be increased. A test of the model for two "pursuit divers", Gavia arctica and Mergus merganser, using field data concerning the selection of 16 lakes in relation to fish density, water transparency, and a "fish detectability index" (combining data on fish density and water transparency), suggests that this model applies for these species in oligotrophic lakes in south-west Sweden.
10.2307/3676508|Timing of breeding and breeding performance in the Redshank were studied in N. W. England during 1983-85. Older, more experienced Redshank tended to pair with birds of similar breeding experience and generally nested early in the season. Experienced females laid significantly larger eggs than inexperienced females. There was no significant difference in mean egg volume between first and replacement clutches or between clutches laid by the same female in consecutive years. Variation in mean egg volume was greater between than within clutches. Egg biometrics had high indices of repeatability both between and within years. Three measures of chick size (weight, bill and tarsus length) were significantly and positively correlated with egg volume.
10.2307/3675935|Data were collected to test the idea that male Mallards guard their female partners during the time when they can be fertilized (critical period). Males maintained closer proximity, and followed their partners more during the critical period. Females were chased by other males significantly more during the critical period, and male partners were more aggressive to such intruders, than at other times. Most attempts at extrapair bond matings were by paired males. Unpaired males appeared more intent on forming pair-bonds. The sex ratio varied over the egg-laying period, but was always male biased.
10.2307/3676603|The life histories in Palaearctic and Nearctic forest grouse were studied and compared to three aspects of the habitats - successional stage of forest, habitat structure ("open-ness"), and winter food ("feeding habitat") - used by different grouse. No evidence of r-selection in grouse using early successional stages of the forest compared with those using later stages was found. Species inhabiting dense habitat structures had low body mass. Winter food was related to both annual adult mortality and reproductive effort. Conifer feeding species had low annual mortality rate and low reproductive effort compared with species feeding on deciduous plants. The possibility of an impact of different winter diets on the evolution of annual adult mortality rate and reproductive effort in forest grouse is discussed.
10.2307/3676605|Hazel Grouse Bonasa bonasia typically roost in snow burrows at night in winter, but this is often not possible in maritime climates. The alternative, roosting in trees, was studied in south-central Sweden during three winters. Data from 64 roost sites showed that Hazel Grouse preferred to roost in Norway spruce Picea abies, the tree species on the area providing the greatest amount of vertical cover. Roost trees were consistently shorter than the surrounding canopy trees and birds roosted low in the trees. Roosting sites had a significantly higher density than expected of both spruces and total trees. Thus, Hazel Grouse roost sites had more vertical and horizontal cover than expected. This type of site probably provided thermal benefits to roosting grouse.
10.2307/3676634|During the month prior to spring departure to the breeding grounds the Svalbard population of Pink-footed Geese staging in west Jutland, Denmark shifts from pasture to grain feeding on newly sown fields. This paper compares the daily energy expenditure and net energy intake in the two habitats. On pastures the geese spent 80% of the feeding day feeding vs 54% on newly sown barley fields, but due to more frequent disturbance flights in the latter habitat, the estimated daily energy expenditure on pastures was lower (1088 kJ vs 1280 kJ). Daily food intake on pastures was estimated at 158.5 g organic matter and on newly sown fields at 229.8 g organic matter, equivalent to a daily net energy intake of 1267 kJ and 2824 kJ, respectively. The net energy intake per peck during a feeding bout was 14 J on pastures and 219 J on newly sown fields. Thus, from an energetic point of view, feeding on newly sown fields was advantageous compared with feeding on pastures, and the observed habitat shift can be seen as a choice of the most profitable food source. The grain provides sufficient carbohydrates to build up fat reserves for later reproduction, but not sufficient protein.
10.2307/3675907|Pied Flycatcher Ficedula hypoleuca Pall. populations in deciduous and coniferous habitats around Uppsala, Central Sweden, were compared. In deciduous as compared to coniferous habitat, males, but not females, were larger, territories were occupied and egg laying started one week earlier, and final breeding success was higher. The size-related assortment of individuals upon the two habitats was interpreted as the outcome of competitive interactions. This finding and the lower reproductive success in the less preferred habitat are in accordance with Fretwell's ideal despotic distribution model.
10.2307/3676360|This study examined the availability of food for Barnacle Geese breeding on Spitsbergen in relation to the snowmelt, their feeding activities and food intake in relation to phenological events, and their reproductive performance. The food intake rate increased gradually throughout spring, concomitant with an increase in the density and quality of the food on offer. The timing of incubation was ultimately controlled by the availability of food throughout summer, being an evolutionary trade-off between a late start (favourable foraging conditions during the egg stage, which enhanced the probability of successfully hatching the eggs), and an early start (resulting in a high survival rate of the off-spring). A necessary delay of incubation in late snowmelt seasons affected, in order of importance, nest success, brood size at hatching, and the proportion of pairs that initiated breeding.
10.2307/3676013|Ringing recoveries of Danish Kestrels show that survival has increased abruptly twice in this century, - after introduction of protective legislation of the species 1926-1931, and after protection of all species of birds of prey in 1967. In both cases, this increase coincides with significant decreases in numbers of recoveries of birds shot. After 1967, available information indicates a population increase followed by stabilization on a higher level during the period 1970-1980. Correspondingly, survival decreased again to its former level, and monthly mortality changed from a peak mortality in autumn to peaks in July-August and January-February. These results strongly suggest that shooting pressure has had limiting effects on population size between 1945 and 1967.
10.2307/3676647|A migratory songbird (Dark-eyed Junco Junco hyemalis) was used as a model for studies on the endorphinergic regulation of food intake. When administered intramuscularly to ad libitum-fed birds, the opioid antagonist naloxone dose-dependently reduced food consumption during the first hour post-injection, suggesting that opioid mechanisms participate in the control of feeding in this species. Food consumption was not influenced by an injection at various doses of the specific delta agonist BUBUC. It was attenuated by an injection of the specific kappa agonist U-50,488H, possibly because this drug either induced a nonselective behavioral inhibition or affected peripheral opioid receptors. These data do not provide evidence that the anorexic influence of naloxone in juncos results from the stimulation either of delta or of kappa receptors.
10.2307/3676903|The parental food loads of Gannets were sampled at two Norwegian colonies during 3 yr. Saithe and herring were the most common prey. Saithe were slightly more common, but owing to larger size and greater energy density, herring made up 57% of total biomass and 68% of the total energy harvested. These findings suggest that saithe were more available to Gannets than were herring. Parental food loads were lighter and contained less energy than those in Canada and Scotland and indicate that parental regimes probably vary oceanographically. Prey size was inversely related to the number of items in a parental load, suggesting that Gannets, like other multiple prey loaders, may forage until a certain weight load threshold is reached.
10.2307/3676896|During 1973-85, the mean clutch size and the mean number of fledglings in Tengmalm's Owl correlated positively with the spring trap index of the preferred prey (Microtus voles). The largest clutches (7-10 eggs) were more profitable both per egg and per clutch than the most common clutches (5-6) which, in turn, were more productive than the smallest clutches (1-4). Predation rate was higher on small clutches than on large ones. Broods with one young experimentally added did not suffer from a higher nestling mortality than control broods or broods with one young experimentally reduced. This suggests that the amount of food available to the egg-laying female is the critical factor for the determination of clutch size. However, young of enlarged broods tended to achieve slightly lower weight at fledging than did young from reduced broods, which indicates that their phenotypic quality and therefore later survival might be lower. This may select for smaller clutches than those producing the largest number of fledglings.
10.2307/3676757|Greenfinches were observed arriving at and departing from a communal roost on more than 50 occasions each. They settled at the roost earlier than expected for the season at low, and later than expected at high light intensities. Departure time was negatively correlated with the number of birds in the roost. Light intensity when late birds departed was positively correlated with the number of Sparrowhawks observed at the roost. The Greenfinches departed earlier than expected at high, and later than expected at low light intensities.
10.2307/3676044|A short-term study of the feeding niche differentiation of some passerine birds was conducted in a montane pine forest in central Spain during one winter, and the results were compared with similar data from northern Europe. Only six species of passerines were fairly common in the study area. The distribution of densities seemed to be more even than in northern Europe. The so called "pariform guild" as defined in Scandinavian studies, was found to consist of three distinct groups of species according to their foraging patterns: a group of generalized ground, shrub and branch foragers, another of specialized foliage foragers and a third of specialized trunk foragers. The last group overlaps so little with the rest of the species, that it should be excluded from the guild. Parus montanus and Certhia familiaris are not found in central Spain, while they are common in northern Europe. Instead Sitta europaea and Certhia brachydactyla were relatively common. The higher average temperatures for the winter months in central Spain when compared with northern Europe may induce a greater resource abundance, which possibly explains the broader niche of Parus cristatus and the abundance of Sitta europaea. No major effects on the foraging patterns of Parus cristatus and Parus ater by the absence of Parus montanus were observed, but the distribution of P. cristatus in the pines may be affected by the presence of Sitta europaea.
10.2307/3676346|According to W. and R. Wiltschko magnetic orientation is primary to and sometimes also immediately dominant over stellar orientation. By using another kind of orientation cage, however, we were not able to confirm the results of the Wiltschkos.
10.2307/3675928|We describe changes in the relative sizes and water contents of body components during the postnatal development of the Northern Gannet, a large altricial seabird. During the 13-week nestling period, body proportions change markedly as mass increases about 40-fold. As in other altricial species, proportions of the appendages, associated skeletal muscles, and feathers increase with growth while those of the viscera and the head decrease. Percentage of water in the body decreases linearly with age from about 85% at hatching to 70% at 50 days of age. The relationships of organ size to body size, and of the percentage of water in a component to the proportion of its growth accomplished at a particular age in Gannet chicks appear similar to those of smaller altricial nestlings. Hence pattern of growth and development does not differ greatly among species with adult sizes spanning two orders of magnitude. The slower growth rate of the larger Gannet apparently reflects a general prolongation of the altricial pattern of development with little qualitative change. The earlier achievement of homeothermy in the Gannet than in smaller species appears related in part to its larger size and resulting greater thermal inertia and lower mass-specific conductance. Although skeletal muscles may acquire function at a somewhat lower relative mass in the Gannet than in smaller altricial species, the slower growth of larger species cannot be linked to any major difference in pattern of anatomical or physiological development.
10.2307/3676877|The influence of weather variables (visibility, windspeed, temperature, precipitation, cloudiness, and duration of sunshine) on growth of Little Auk chicks was analysed by means of stepwise multiple regression. We found a statistically significant negative influence of precipitation on chicks 1-5 d old, a negative impact of wind, and a positive effect of visibility on the growth of chicks older than 5 d. Based on a day-to-day analysis we found five days throughout the chicks' development in which their growth was influenced by visibility or precipitation. Characteristically, we detected the influence of these variables on chicks' growth in times of changing weather conditions. Air temperatures measured in three nests were stable and close to ambient temperature. Only in one nest was the temperature significantly correlated with ambient temperature. We conclude that some weather variables clearly influenced changes in body weight of Little Auk chicks, although their effect on postnatal development was weak.
10.2307/3676020|In the study area in Central Norway the Chiffchaff and Willow Warbler occupied mutually exclusive territories. A part of the forest occupied one year by one of the species could another year be inhabitated by the other species. After the removal of a male of one of the species, a male from the other species could occupy its territory. It is suggested that differences in the species' habitat preferences could not be involved to explain the spacing pattern of the territories. No indication was found among the outcomes of the recorded interspecific confrontations for the hypothesis that one species was dominant over the other one. When using playback to promote an intrusion of one species in the territory of a male of the other species, the owner of the territory usually was able to evict the intruder. Generally, neither species responded aggressively to playback of heterospecific song. A stuffed Willow Warbler was attacked to a lesser degree by both species when heterospecific song was played with it than when conspecific song was played. These experiments suggest that the species were capable of identifying each other by means of the song. It is suggested that the species may occupy mutually exclusive territories because one species (the Chiffchaff) arrives earlier than the other and that the study area was not saturated with the species. In this way it is possible for later-arriving individuals to find areas to occupy. It is suggested that this spacing system reduces interference from other individuals during foraging. This explanation invokes chance as an important factor. It is suggested that competitive systems based on different forms of stochasticity deserve further attention in studies on resource partitioning between species.
10.2307/3676787|Relative growth of body parts (wing, culmen, tarsus) in young Snow Geese differed among years and among summer feeding areas only a few kilometers apart in the vicinity of the McConnell River, Northwest Territories, Canada. Gosling age was unknown at time of capture, so we expressed all differences in measured characteristics as a function of culmen length. This procedure may underestimate the magnitude of differences in growth with respect to age. Year and summer feeding area had large, independent effects on relative growth. Growth of primary feathers showed the greatest variation of measurable variables among feeding areas. We argue that the cause of most differences in relative growth was nutritional variation of vegetation. If goslings with retarded growth do not entirely catch up on fall staging areas, there may be lasting demographic effects.
10.2307/3676286|Night rest during nestling period was studied by observations from a hide-out and by an automatic recorder for a total of 42 nights under subarctic summer conditions at Ammarns, Swedish Lapland (66 N). The female was usually sitting on the nestlings during night rest. Phylloscopus trochilus rested for 5-7 hours, the time being almost equally distributed around midnight; Emberiza schoeniclus for 3.5-5 hours, mostly before midnight; Luscinia svecica and Saxicola rubetra 3-5 hours, mainly after midnight. Time of night rest - before, around, or after midnight - seems to be species-specific. Species differences indicate that other factors than light are involved in the adaptation of diurnal activity rhythms to subarctic summer conditions.
10.2307/3676281|Extensive counts of wintering Anatidae (including aerial surveys in coastal waters) were made in 1967-1974 as part of the International Waterfowl Counts. Total populations in 1971-1973 were estimated to be 233,000-297,000 for all Swedish waters, excluding offshore areas of the Baltic and the northern part of the west coast. Marked annual variations in numbers were found in relation to the severity of the winter. Bucephala clangula, Somateria mollissima, Mergus merganser, and Cygnus olor showed increasing trends, whereas Cygnus cygnus decreased after the hard 1969/70 winter. The increasing trends may be due partly to a shift in distribution during milder winters, and partly to a recovery after the hard winters of 1962/63, 1965/66, and 1969/70. The midwinter distribution of different species in relation to feeding ecology is discussed.
10.2307/3675921|Spread of laying and median laying dates were recorded within and between colonies of Common Guillemots Uria aalge in 1973, 1974 and 1975. In 1975 the first egg was layed on 1 May and the last on 5 June (36 days): median: 16 May. The median laying date varied by up to six days in different years and in different colonies in the same year. In 1975 considering all colonies (n = 580 pairs) 13% of eggs were laid in the first 10 days of the laying period, the corresponding figures for individual colonies fell between 57-74%, indicating greater synchrony within colonies. It is suggested that a two-tier system of synchrony exists: a large scale colony effect and a more localised effect within the colony depending upon the density of breeding groups.
10.2307/3676807|The technique of ptilochronology was used to assess the influence of food cache availability on feather regeneration in Gray Jays Perisoreus canadensis wintering in northcentral Alaska (6640N, 15033W). The method involved plucking a rectrix (tail feather), allowing the bird to grow a replacement feather from the same follicle, plucking that induced feather, and then measuring the width of daily growth bars and the length and mass of the induced feather. The experimental protocol involved supplementing jays in some territories with food that they were allowed to cache, and leaving jays in other territories unsupplemented. After the period of food supplementation, a rectrix was taken from jays in all territories. Approximately two months later, the induced (replacement) rectrix was taken from jays in all territories. Replacement feathers from jays with supplemental caches grew at a faster rate and were longer and heavier than those from jays that did not have access to supplemental caches. Supplemented jays were also more likely to grow a replacement feather. These results suggest that the wintering jays with access to more cached food were able to allocate a greater amount of energy to feather growth. Ptilochronology appears to have promise for improving the experimental tractability of a great variety of questions in avian ecology.
10.2307/3676463|The breeding biology of the House Sparrow was studied in the Mediterranean coastal plain of Israel. Egg laying occurred from the end of March until mid July. The mean clutch size was 5.05 eggs with a modal clutch size of 5, whereas the most productive clutch size was 6 eggs. On average each pair laid 2.3 clutches per year from which a total of 5.75 young fledged. Mean egg weight increased with laying sequence within the clutch. Incubation length was negatively correlated with ambient temperature. Average breeding success was 70.0%. Nestling growth rate was negatively correlated with brood size, but both the time the nestlings spent in the nest and nestling feeding rate were positively correlated with brood size. The time interval between broods increased by on average 1.6 d for each additional chick raised in the previous brood. These results are compared with those obtained for other populations of House Sparrows.
10.2307/3676427|Using geometric relationships, we calculate theoretical upper (20-30 km) and lower (0.7-6.2 km) limits to horizontal distances over which volant seabirds can be visually recruited to join Type I flocks in the open ocean. These are compared to empirical estimates for recruitment distances, obtained from chumming experiments conducted in the western Atlantic Ocean off the southeastern United States. The product of arrival times and flight speeds for individuals (n = 164) joining 10 flocks indicated that potential recruitment distances were closer to the lower theoretical limits, with a mean distance of 4.5 km when flight time and ground speed were adjusted for detection lags, wind speed, and zigzag flight. Distances and time spans for mutual attraction among seabirds have important consequences for evaluating both intra-and inter-specific interactions at the community level, as well as direct implications for sampling independence during distributional surveys that employ consecutive line transects or other sequential counting methods.
10.2307/3675961|A population of wing-tagged Hooded Crows Corvus corone cornix was studied for five breeding seasons. Pairs that bred in the first year that they occupied a territory laid smaller clutches and bred later than experienced pairs. Some pairs bred for the first time in the second year that they occupied a territory. In this year their breeding success was similar to that of experienced pairs. Pairs with one experienced partner and one that bred for the first time had a breeding success that was similar to that of experienced pairs. A pair's territory increased in area after the first year of occupation. Experienced pairs differed with respect to egg weight, breeding time, and clutch size but not with respect to rate of predation on eggs and nestlings. Large females (measured as bill length plus foot length) and heavy females laid heavy eggs. Heavy females and females in good condition (heavy in relation to their size) bred early.
10.2307/3676374|Recoveries of dead (n=3,158) and recaptures of live (n=4,283) Eiders ringed in the Dutch Wadden Sea were analyzed. About 98% of the females ringed as ducklings showed natal philopatry; a few settled in adjacent colonies. Adult females were 100% philopatric. In males, natal dispersal was roughly estimated at 78%. Breeding dispersal in males was estimated at 15% per year. Dispersing males settled in a large area up to about 1,700 km from their original colony. Post-fledging dispersal was in all directions, up to 1,200 km from the place of birth. The distribution of young males and females was similar up to the spring of their third calendar year. From then on, females were found near their natal colony and males were dispersed. This dispersal pattern can be explained by pair formation in the communal winter quarters and by the strong philopatry of the females. Males simply follow their mates ("abmigration"). The ultimate result of this dispersal behaviour is a genetic mixing of more than 40% per generation over a large area.
10.2307/3676011|The study was done on the estuary of the river Ythan, Aberdeenshire, Scotland. During high tide, when preying on Clupeidae, capture rates achieved by Common Terns Sterna hirundo and Sandwich Terns Sterna sandvicensis decreased significantly with increasing windspeed. Capture success did not change but the birds reduced the rates at which they attempted to capture prey. Changes in wave amplitude were probably more important in this than windspeed per se. At low tide when preying on Crangon vulgaris the capture success of Common Terns also decreased significantly with increasing windspeed. Capture methods employed by both species changed in relation to windspeed such that shallower dives were made at higher windspeeds. It is argued that as windspeed and wave amplitude increase the birds find it more difficult to predict the position of the fish below the surface and thus opt to prey mainly on fish nearer the surface.
10.2307/3676140|Breeding time, clutch size, dimensions and intra-and interclutch variation were measured in 612 egg clutches of Fringilla coelebs during the past 100 yr. Egg-laying starts on average 4 d earlier in Denmark - SSW Sweden than in S Finland, and 4 d earlier the last three decades than around the turn of the century, probably due to the spring climate amelioration. No latitudinal trend in clutch size was found. Mean-egg volume decreases from the south to the northeast, and so does male wing length. Mean-egg volume increased with the progress of the breeding season, but the correlation was not stable, for clutches with large mean-egg volume are nowadays laid early in the season more frequently than before. Egg shell thickness varies between and within some regions, and also among clutches collected before the use of pesticides. Replacement clutches exceed first clutches in mean-egg volume, but the number of eggs per clutch remains the same until very late in the season. Selective forces shaping the breeding strategy of Chaffinches of different age and size are discussed.
10.2307/3676239|Take-off and landing of Gavia stellata were studied at nesting tarns. At take-off divers had to skitter to obtain the necessary relative airspeed at the wings, the feet contributing the extra vertical force necessary to keep the diver out of water while acceleration was accomplished by feet and wings. They skittered 15-40 m, their feet moving synchronously with the wings. Take-off speed was ca. 36 km/hr. Since they are slow climbers, they had to circle around the tarns while climbing, thereby spending a component of the potential vertical force for centripetal acceleration. This puts a lower limit to the tree-free area for climbing turns. At landing they glided with wings and body raised, the feet being extended posteroventrally making the first contact with water. The stable, shallow glide promotes a safe landing at high speed. Mean flight speed during fishing flights was 60.4 km/hr.
10.2307/3676199|The feeding behaviour of European Wigeon, Teal, Mallard and Pintail was studied in May, June and August on a shallow lake in northern Sweden at 66N. Duck behaviour was found to be related to the time of the day, the weather conditions and the food resources. In May, the dominant food resource was Chironomidae imagines, which were either present on the aquatic vegetation, or on the water surface. The food-seeking behaviour of Wigeon, Teal and Mallard was at that time almost exclusively restricted to the water surface or above it, while the Pintails also fed below the surface. In June, the Chironomidae imagines were still present but in greatly reduced numbers. The Wigeon and Teal now also fed to some extent below the water surface, whereas for Mallard and Pintail this type of feeding behaviour was dominant. In August, the Chironomidae imagines had all disappeared, but their larval biomass on the lake bottom had increased. The Wigeon still fed predominantly on or above the water surface while all the other duck species now almost exclusively fed below it. In June cold and windy weather induced Teal and Pintail, but not Mallard, to feed more frequently below the water surface, although such weather conditions in May and August did not lead to any drastic changes in the feeding behaviour of any duck species.
10.2307/3675951|Sexual and seasonal differences in mortality in the Black Grouse Tetrao tetrix L. were studied by radio-tracking 53 hens for 3051 bird-days in spring and summer, and 54 cocks for 3906 birds-days during spring to winter in Swedish boreal forest. The mortality rate of hens during spring and summer was 0.35 but had a sharp peak during egg laying and incubation. Goshawk Accipiter gentilis L. predation was the major known cause of death (12 of 17 kills). Outside the breeding season mortality seemed to be low. In cocks, unlike hens, mortality in spring appeared to be related to age. Adult territorial cocks had a mortality rate of 0.31 while all young non-territorial birds survived. Rapid weight loss during display peak among the former but not the latter suggested that territorial display implies energetic stress. During autumn and winter results were suggestive rather than conclusive: (1) juveniles had high mortality throughout autumn, (2) two-year old non-territorials had a peak in mortality in late autumn, and (3) adult territorials survived. All deaths were proximately caused by predation. Annual mortality rate for adults was estimated as 0.44. Finally, a tentative model of seasonal variation in sex ratio skewness is given as a way to pinpoint periods of sex-differential mortality.
10.2307/3676475|In two Golden Plover populations in S. Norway (Jren: heather moor at 300-400 m elevation, and Hardangervidda: middle alpine zone at 1200-1300 m elevation) there was a negative correlation between egg volume and the date on which clutches were started. A Dotterel population in the study area on Hardangervidda did not show any trend in egg volume in relation to the start of egg-laying. On Jren more late than early Golden Plover clutches contained fewer than 4 eggs. On Hardangervidda no reduction of clutch size with season was found in either Golden Plover or Dotterel. In newly hatched Dotterel chicks both body weight and tarsus length were positively correlated with egg volume, while no such data were collected for Golden Plover. It is argued that, in waders, populations of single-brooded species should show a decrease in egg volume with season, whereas this should not apply to multi-brooded species.
10.2307/3676778|To clarify whether foraging conditions and different diets might influence growth and fledging success of Common Tern chicks at different nesting sites, feeding experiments using three types of diet (herring, three-spined stickleback and common shrimp) were carried out in 1985. The results were compared with field data from three Common Tern colonies at the Lower Saxon Wadden Sea. In addition seven food species typical for Common Terns were analysed energetically and biochemically. The results showed herring and other marine fish to be the most favourable diet. In spite of the lower nutritive value of three-spined stickleback and common shrimp (lower caloric value, protein and fat content; higher mass of inorganic substances; greater energy loss through faeces per day and chick; reduced growth rate of chicks) these species are frequently fed to the chicks in several colonies. Possible advantages and prerequisites of this feeding strategy are discussed. Three-spined sticklebacks or common shrimps seem to be an important additional energy source in times of low availability of high-energy food, enabling the chicks to maintain their body mass temporarily and thus preventing starvation.
10.2307/3676569|The nest defence behaviour of the Redwing Turdus iliacus was examined to determine whether changes occur during the breeding season, whether defence intensity is related to reproductive success, and to study fluctuations in the probability of predation. Alarm calling rate was used as a measure of nest defence intensity. The rate of alarm calling increased throughout the breeding cycle. No significant differences were found in total alarm calling rate between early and late breeders, or between groups with different clutch or brood sizes. The probability of predation increased as the breeding season proceeded. The results are discussed in relation to predictions derived from three hypotheses of parental investment (cumulative investment, expected benefit, and increasing predation).
10.2307/3676734|Forty-five individuals of three long-distance migratory passerine species were displaced from Denmark to Kenya in the autumn of 1987. In Kenya their orientations were recorded in funnels during September - December. The purpose of the experiment was to elucidate the orientation system(s) genetically encoded in the birds. Five such systems were considered and compared with the observed orientational patterns. Special attention was paid to the clock- and compass system which by almost all experts is considered a sufficient explanation of the migratory progress and timing. However, it does not describe the results of this study satisfactorily and the influence of some sort of coordinate navigation - possibly stellar-based - seems likely.
10.2307/3676912|Dominance status of juvenile and adult Black-billed Magpies Pica pica was studied at a feeding station in the wild and under captive conditions in an outdoor aviary. In the wild, adult magpies won only 15% of 72 interactions recorded at a food source outside any known territory; only adult males were recorded dominating juveniles and then only female juveniles. In captivity, only the dominance status of male magpies was studied. When both age cohorts of males were new to captivity, an adult was top-ranked in only 21% of 24 trials. However, when adult males had > 1 year's residence in capitivity, the dominance relationships changed significantly with adults dominating juveniles in 55% of 22 trials.
10.2307/3676163|The total population of Gannets in Norway in 1971 was 569 breeding pairs: 383 on Runde off lesund in South Norway (established 1947), 77 on Skittenskarvholmen off Mosken in the Outer Lofoten Islands (established 1960-1965), 65 on Skarvklakken off Nordmjele, Andya (established 1967), and 44 on Innerstauren, Syltefjord, East Finnmark (established 1961). The choice of breeding localities is suggested to follow the distribution of Herring Clupea harengus and Capelin Mallotus villosus. The social stimulus from Cormorants Phalacrocorax carbo may have initiated the establishment of the unusual breeding sites on the islets off Mosken and Nordmjele. The population increase far exceeds the intrinsic rate of increase, and immigration of new breeding birds must have taken place in most years. These birds probably originate from Scottish colonies.
10.2307/3676542|Selective feeding by the Takahe Notornis mantelli, an endangered, flightless, herbivorous rail, endemic to New Zealand, was studied in the Murchison Mountains, Fiordland, between 1976 and 1980. Takahe occupy the alpine grasslands throughout the snow-free period and have a simple diet consisting of leaf bases of snow tussock grasses (Chionochloa pallens, C. flavescens, C. crassiuscula) and a mountain daisy Celmisia petriei. Changes in seasonal diet between plant species and between plants of the same species were examined in relation to the mineral nutrient, carbohydrate, lipid and soluble sugar content. Tussock species eaten by Takahe contained more nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, calcium, sodium and soluble sugars than those eaten less frequently or avoided, but selection for specific nutrients changed seasonally. Takahe selected within and between species for high concentrations of nitrogen and phosphorus in spring-early summer, and for carbohydrates in late summer-early autumn. Amongst the tussock grasses, the birds displayed a preference for actively growing, nutrient-rich tissue and appeared to differentiate between species and among sites along an altitudinal gradient to take advantage of inter- and intra-specific differences in the onset of growth flushes. Takahe also favoured leaf bases of flowering tussock tillers. Observations of Takahe feeding behaviour on Chionochloa pallens showed that the birds sampled widely before intensively feeding on a tussock. It is suggested that the basis for food selection involves discrimination by visual qualities and chemical cues associated with taste.
10.2307/3676570|Svalbard Ptarmigans deposit large amounts of body fat during the autumn. When the fat stores were at their fullest (in September/October) resting metabolic rate was <tex-math>$100\ {\rm Kcal}\ {\rm kg}^{-1}\ {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math> after 5 d of starvation. In December when voluntary food intake was at its lowest, resting metabolic rate was <tex-math>$88\ {\rm Kcal}\ {\rm kg}^{-1}\ {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math>, being unaffected by 5 d of starvation. Weight loss during starvation in September/October, November, December and January was 18.7, 16.3, 11.0 and <tex-math>$12.9\ {\rm g}\ {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math>, respectively. The daily energy expenditure of starved birds coincides with calculated daily energy expenditure of ad lib. fed birds at the same time of the year. It follows that the Svalbard Ptarmigan does not increase its activity during episodes of starvation in winter. Starved birds responded to resumed feeding with hyperphagia until their body weight reached the body weight of ad lib. fed control birds. This finding indicates that body weight in the Svalbard Ptarmigan is regulated according to a seasonally changing set-point. The potential durability of the body fat reserves of starving Svalbard Ptarmigan was assessed at monthly intervals during the dark part of the winter.
10.2307/3676066|The female Willow Tit incubates alone and is regularly fed by the male. Incubation starts gradually during the egg-laying period, but did not, at the nests studied; develop fully until several days after the clutch was completed. The overall mean egg temperature recorded during the period of steady incubation was 36.4C. The duration of attentiveness was adjusted to changes in the air temperature. With increasing air temperature the periods-on tended to decrease and the periods-off to increase in duration, but the male's visits to the nest interfered with and partly masked this pattern. There is some evidence that incubation is basically controlled by a circadian rhythm.
10.2307/3676012|Bird distributions were examined along transects extending from forest edges 250 m out on clearcuts and the same distance inside forests. Inventories were performed in spring, summer and autumn 1980, winter 1980/81 and spring 1981. 67% of all observations were made in forest parts. However, there was a seasonal change with relatively more observations on clearcuts in summer and autumn. There were considerably more observations and higher densities in an outer forest belt of c. 50 m than deeper inside the forest. This was apparent for most species but particularly in the common species Erithacus rubecula, Fringilla coelebs and certain Parus spp. There were few pronounced edge species (Anthus trivialis and Parus major dominating in numbers). Fewer individuals of open land species were observed in the first 100 m of clearcuts than in their centres. There the bird fauna differed completely from that in the forest, consisting of just a few species of open habitats, such as Emberiza citrinella and Lanius collurio. The high occurrence of tree-gleaning species in the outer forest belt is suggested to depend on a rich supply of insects. The low density of open land species on clearcuts close to the forest may be due to several factors generally important on habitat islands as varying intra- and interspecific competition and risks for ambush predation.
10.2307/3676143|The breeding bird community at Kuopio, Central Finland, was studied on 14 plots representing five urban habitats. Diversity (H) decreased with increasing urbanisation (measured as decreasing plant volume), but the evenness component of diversity (J) and density were not correlated to urbanisation. This decline was confirmed by studying area-diversity relations in each habitat. Density and diversity or density and effective species number. exp(H), showed no correlation. Diversity correlated strongly with actual species number but weakly with evenness. The number of birds per species was predicted in a linear fashion by relative constancy of species. Edge heterogeneity increased bird species diversity but had no influence on density or evenness. The results suggest that urbanisation affects bird communities rather by decreasing species richness than by changing species-abundance pattern. Furthermore, density and diversity are not regulated jointly. A mosaic distribution of urban habitats may alleviate the impact of urbanisation on bird populations.
10.2307/3676102|The parental behaviour of four wild pairs of Willow Grouse, maintained in captivity near Troms in northern Norway, is described. Two pairs bred normally in outdoor enclosures in June, while two, maintained indoors under artificial light, bred successfully in late autumn and early spring, respectively. All four hens laid full clutches, and all but one incubated them. Her eggs were incubated and the chicks subsequently brooded by the cock. The incubating birds were more active, and called more, just before hatching. In some cases they left the nest while individual chicks hatched. Hatching success was relatively low, but the chicks which did hatch were brooded effectively, usually by the hen. The results are discussed in relation to other studies of grouse breeding.
10.2307/3676577|There are at least two sides to the matter of geographical population segregation in bird migration: (1) asymmetric competition for breeding resources between birds from different wintering areas, and (2) asymmetric competition for winter resources between birds from different breeding areas. We have earlier stressed the importance of the first point for the evolution of leap-frog migration; Pienkowski, Evans and Townshend, in their alternative explanation, stress the second (competition acting through size dominance). There are counter-indications to both hypotheses, particularly to the effects of size-related dominance. Leap-frog migration may be associated with both the above-mentioned competition effects acting in combination.
10.2307/3676548|The effect of the posture of group members on foraging group attractiveness in the Teal was studied. The posture of group members did not affect the attractiveness of groups. Teals seem to follow the general rule of always joining a group whatever foraging method is predominantly used by group members.
10.2307/3676487|We observed 4 and 2 marked pairs of Yellow Warblers throughout the breeding seasons of 1986 and 1987, respectively. Males perched higher during all breeding stages and remained closest to their mates during the latter's fertile periods. Males intruded into territories more frequently during a resident female's fertile period when more border disputes between males were recorded at territory boundaries. Neighbouring males made up 65.1% of all male intrusions into focal territories. Prior to incubation intruding males approached resident females but were usually chased out by the resident males. Two intrusions resulted in extra-pair copulation attempts of which one was successful. Thirty-four within-pair copulation attempts occurred from 7 d before to 1 d after clutch initiation. Rates of intrusions, border disputes, and extra-territorial flights, where birds flew beyond their neighbour's territory, were not correlated with the stage of breeding of their mates. However, males made extra-territorial flights only after their mate's fertile period. The proportion of departures initiated by females away from their mates and the rate of male following remained the same throughout the breeding season. We suggest that in open forest habitat, Yellow Warblers guard their mates by surveying them from high perches and concentrating their activities near the female during her fertile period.
10.2307/3676537|Transects of pinewoods in the Maremma Natural Park, Tuscany, Italy, showed unusually high densities of 347 to 676 (mean 484) <tex-math>$\text{Jays}\ {\rm km}^{-2}$</tex-math> in July but much lower densities (similar to those in northern Europe) in October and November. The density in the alternative habitats, scrub and olive grove, changed in the opposite direction between seasons. The high numbers of Jays were associated with an abundance of cicadas Cicada orni in the pinewoods in July and of acorns in the scrub in autumn. Radio-tracking of four Jays showed ranges of 42.5 to 358.8 ha, which encompassed both scrub and pinewood in July but which were confined to scrub in autumn. Jays were seen to move from scrub to pinewood in large numbers at dawn in July and were observed to return at dusk. In autumn, individual birds were seen carrying acorns from scrub to pinewood, apparently to cache them there.
10.2307/3675894|Inter-observer differences were studied at Falsterbo on four occasions. Sixteen experienced observers, four on each occasion, simultaneously and independently recorded the migration. No single observer could record the entire migration even under moderate conditions. Observers were relatively efficient in recording raptors and abundant and easily detected species. Observers were compared with regard to the number of species and individuals recorded. Any two observers both recorded 50-80% of all species in their pooled records. For species occurring in sufficient numbers for analysis, the inter-observer agreement, i. e. the percentage of individuals two observers both recorded related to the highest number recorded by either of them, ranged between 26 and 88%; for five species that were well represented on more than one occasion the corresponding proportions varied between 59 and 80%.
10.2307/3675931|The full song of the Blackbird was analysed quantitatively by means of sonagraph, level recorder and computer. Species-specific limits of variation are given for a number of song parameters. Some of these parameters vary between individuals, others vary within individuals in two situations, viz. dawn song with heavy stimulation from rivals and evening song with weak stimulation from rivals. The parameters and the differences between the variations of the parameters all seem to be within the range of auditory perception of oscines. It is therefore hypothesized that parameters varying within species-specific limits have a potential for conveying a message about the species, and that parameters varying within these limits with the individual or the situation have an additional potential for conveying individual or behavioural messages, respectively. Blackbird song was also studied with respect to adaptations for acoustic communication. Selection has favoured the evolution of a functionally divalent signal, the motif parts being adapted for long-range communication and the twitter parts for short-range communication.
10.2307/3676767|The number of Short-eared Owls in upland conifer plantations in South Scotland was positively correlated with vole numbers during autumn and spring from October 1975 to July 1978. There were fewer voles and owls in grazed sheepwalk than in the ungrazed young-plantations. The mean size of owl territories varied from 42 ha to 112 ha, and was negatively related to vole abundance. Recoveries and sightings of wing-tagged owls suggested that they may have dispersed several hundred kilometers or more, following the decline in voles, but were most likely to breed in the study area in successive years when vole numbers were increasing.
10.2307/3676039|Postnuptial moult in a Great Tit population in S. Sweden covers a period of about 4.5 mo (June-October), while in an individual moult takes about 3 mo. Secondary, tail and tertiary moult start about simultaneously, when P4 is growing. Tail and tertiary moult finish about two weeks before primary moult, while secondary moult continues for about two weeks after the primaries are renewed. Comparing the integration of moult in the annual cycle at Lund, S. Sweden, and in Belgium, I find that at Lund adults can start moult while raising first brood young, something not observed in Belgium. In both populations males start moult before females, but in Belgium male moult is slowed down because of its overlap with autumn agonistic behaviour, so that males and females terminate moult at about the same time. There is no such overlap at Lund which results in males finishing moult before females there. Birds finishing moult later grow shorter wings, this possibly being a 'price' for raising two broods.
10.2307/3676392|Using the daily growth of induced feathers as an index, we found that supplementary food significantly improved the nutritional condition of wintering birds of several bark-foraging species, Downy Woodpecker Picoides pubescens, Carolina Chickadee Parus carolinensis, Tufted Titmouse P. bicolor, and White-breasted Nuthatch Sitta carolinensis. In many previous studies of the behavior and ecology of wintering birds, supplementary food on and off site both before and during study periods has remained an uncontrolled variable. We suggest that future work should incorporate knowledge about the accessability of artificial food supplies.
10.2307/3676766|The results of experiments with different types of nestboxes are reported from a study at Trondheim, Norway. The Pied Flycatcher tended to prefer large nestboxes to small ones, and lay larger clutches in the former. However, this did not occur when the nestboxes were placed in separate, nearby plots. When nestboxes were of the same small size within a plot, females laid larger clutches in nestboxes placed in normal, upright position than in tilted ones. The former females had higher body weight. Thus, correlations between clutch size and type of nest site seemed to be related to differences between individuals, in particular in body condition, rather than to clutch size being modified in relation to size and type of the particular nestbox concerned. This suggests that the pattern in which birds search for a nest site differs, experienced birds in good condition visiting more potential sites. Alternative hypotheses are discussed.
10.2307/3676190|The existence of non-breeders of Crested and Willow Tits, due to dominance behaviour, was tested by removing territorial pairs at laying time. We played tape recordings of the songs to identify territory owners and their defended areas. The total populations were counted in the autumns before and after the experiment, and natural changes were followed in control populations. Immigrants did not appear in the vacated areas until July, after the breeding season. In the autumn after the removals, population levels on the vacated areas showed no difference relative to the controls. Hence, territorial behaviour at the time of laying did not limit breeding numbers in these species. Some spacing mechanism, of unknown nature, levelled local differences in density before November.
10.2307/3676873|In a north-temperate population of the House Wren, we found that males frequently intrude into territories held by conspecifics. In an attempt to identify the function of these intrusions, the rate of intrusions into a territory when the resident female was presumed to be fertile was compared with the rate when she was presumed to be infertile. Intrusion rates peaked during the resident female's fertile period. Intruding males frequently adopted a posture associated with copulation when they approached resident females. We identified the intruder to be a neighbour of the resident pair in the majority of intrusions observed. This evidence suggests that the majority of territorial intrusions in House Wrens are made to obtain extra-pair copulations.
10.2307/3676904|Consistence in risk of nest predation between consecutive nesting attempts at the same site may be explained by at least two hypotheses: (1) Nest sites differ in detectability; (2) predators memorize the location of previously detected and depredated nests. We tested these hypotheses using an individually marked male Hooded Crow preying on artificial ground nests. We used ten pairs of nests; one of the nests (experimental) was placed in exactly the same spot as one of the nests preyed upon by this crow in the previous year, while the other (control) was placed 30-40 m away. The crow preyed upon the experimental nests first in spite of the two kinds of nest having the same degree of vegetative cover. This supports the memory hypothesis and suggests that in birds that suffer egg predation by corvids there will be selection for site shifts after nest predation.
10.2307/3676917|This study compares reproductive success, dominance, and biometrical variables for Great Tit populations in deciduous and coniferous forest in an attempt to establish whether the birds are distributed between habitats of different quality in a despotic or ideal free manner. No critical differences could be found in reproductive output, and male birds breeding in different habitats did not differ in resource holding potential (RHP). Therefore the distribution of Great Tits over habitats of different quality seems to be in accordance with Fretwell's Ideal Free Distribution model. No relationship was found between body size and social behaviour but the oldest individual had the greatest chance of winning conflicts. Some differences in biometric measurements between habitats were observed. Similar observations have been interpreted in earlier papers as evidence that large individuals possess high RHP. Since no relationship was found between body-size and RHP, it is concluded that such differences do not necessarily imply that Great tits are distributed in a despotic way. Generally birds were smaller in the coniferous habitat. A variant of the Ideal Free Distribution model where individuals choose the habitat to which they are morphologically adapted, may be a possible explanation.
10.2307/3676818|The distribution of sex and age classes of Hawk Owls in Norway outside the breeding season was analysed from 79 fresh birds and museum specimens. The tendency to move from the breeding range down to the lowlands was most pronounced in adult females, less so in juvenile males, and least in adult males and juvenile females. A combination of social dominance and competition for breeding territories may account for this distribution pattern.
10.2307/3676032|Current models concerning the programming of the orientation in migratory birds are far ahead of the evidence from laboratory and especially field experiments. None of the "proofs' for coordinate navigation (towards the wintering area or a moving goal on the migratory route) or vector-orientation are convincing. In the present paper we report on a long-distance displacement of Robins from Denmark to the Canary Islands. The juvenile birds were oriented towards ESE-SE, and compensated the displacement at least partially, whereas the adult birds were oriented towards S-SSW and showed no significant compensation. The results were surprising, and add to the general confusion in this field.
10.2307/3676461|We recorded the duration of successive dives, and pauses on the surface between dives, of foraging Western Grebes Aechmophorus occidentalis at Duck Lake, near Creston, British Columbia. Overall, the duration of a pause was positively related to the length of the preceding dive. Pauses shorter than expected (based on the length of the preceding dive) were defined to have a negative deviation from estimated surface time (DEVEST), while pauses longer than expected had positive DEVEST. The results show that the DEVEST in successive dive-pause cycles is highly positively correlated, so that the cumulative DEVEST first increases for a series of 10-100 dives, and then decreases over a long series. DEVEST has very little influence on dive duration. Western Grebes hunt fish schools, which are initially hard to find, but once found offer many captures. We hypothesize that the observed pattern of surface and underwater time results from a policy allowing western grebes to exploit fish schools more fully than if full recovery followed each dive.
10.2307/3676633|Fieldfare clutch size was studied in N and SW Sweden. The commonest clutch size was smaller than the most productive one, which was the largest natural clutch size. The results suggest that Fieldfares are adapted to reduce large broods through nestling starvation in combination with asynchronous hatching. The youngest chicks had lower probability of survival than their older siblings. Nestlings in experimentally enlarged broods weighed less than young in broods of average size, and the enlarged broods did not produce more fledglings than the control broods. Resources needed for egg-formation seemed to influence clutch size because female weight and clutch size were positively correlated. More birds were recaptured on their breeding grounds in SW than in N Sweden, suggesting a higher mortality rate among adult birds in N Sweden. The smaller average clutch size in N than in SW Sweden probably resulted from the combined effects of reduced foraging success and a high proportion of young, inexperienced individuals in the northern population.
10.2307/3676376|Male Blackbirds Turdus merula caged in an anechoic room had their sound radiation patterns of different types of vocalization calculated from simultaneous measurements by three microphones. Radiation patterns were also obtained by artificially broadcasting sound through the vocal tract of the carcasses of the same individuals. Both sets of measurements showed that vocalizations with prevailing energies below 4 kHz are nearly omnidirectional while those with energies mainly above 5 kHz are directional with a reduction in sound pressure level (SPL) of up to 20 dB behind and below the bird. A change of the beak opening angle from 30 to 3 caused a decrease in SPL of up to 10 dB for frequencies above 4 kHz. The beak opening angle therefore can act as a volume control for high frequencies. The results imply that high frequency Blackbird vocalizations, e.g. the hawk alarm seee call, can be beamed toward target individuals, whereas low frequency vocalizations, e.g. the chook call, expressing mild arousal, can be used towards individuals in unknown locations. Wide-band vocalizations like the full song possess both capacities and the ratio between high and low frequency intensities may be used to specify target individuals as receivers.
10.2307/3676843|Data on beechmast in south Sweden, Denmark, Germany and Yugoslavia, on snow-cover in Germany and on records of mass concentrations of Bramblings in Europe between 1900 and 1983, are presented. Bramblings concentrate in areas with a widespread rich beechmast crop and try to winter as far north-east as possible. Extensive snow-cover forces movements to the south and south-west, where the birds may reconcentrate if there is also a good beechmast crop. No periodicity in mass occurrences or beechmast could be detected. Interrelationships between mass concentrations indicate that Middle Europe, Belgium, Luxembourg and northern France are visited by the same winter population, while those areas to the east and to the west of the south-western migration axis would seem to receive different wintering populations.
10.2307/3675911|Rhb calling is a specific male vocalization in Mallards and seems to function both as a warning and summoning call. The summoning function was studied in two experiments. Males were deprived of visual contact with conspecific females or female mates. The males' calling rate was high when alone or with females which were not their mates but low when the males were together with female mates. The results show that male mallards respond with rhb calling upon separation from their female mates and this probably functions therefore as a contact call.
10.2307/3675985|The pre-laying exodus of the Fulmar was studied in Aberdeenshire, Scotland, during 1973-75. After a period of attendance at the colony beginning in October, marked females began to leave in mid-April, about one month before the start of egg-laying. The first males left about a week later. For about 2 weeks numbers attending the colony were low, reaching a minimum of between 8 and 23% of the breeding population before recovering to over 50% of the breeding population. Females were absent for about 20 days (on average) while males departed for about 9 days. Males usually returned to the colony earlier than their mates. About 10% of the marked males may not have undertaken an exodus. The exodus in the Fulmar and in other petrels is discussed.
10.2307/3676053|Hostile and triumph ceremony behaviour of the Canada Goose was studied 1970-1973. Threat and triumph display postures are briefly described. The form of the triumph ceremony postures indicates that the initiating part (rolling), and probably also the terminating part (cackling) are related to agonistic behaviour patterns. The sequential organization of the patterns also reveals an association between hostile behaviour and the triumph ceremony. It is concluded that the triumph display and agonistic behaviour in this species have motivating factors, internal or external to the animal, in common. The variation in amount and proportion between the triumph display components shows that rolling prevails in pre-attack performances and when strange geese are close to the pair in the territory, while cackling prevails in post-attack performances and in displays without connection with overt hostile encounters.
10.2307/3676248|The breeding site tenacity of colour-ringed Chaffinches and Bramblings was studied in the southern part of N Finland (6457N, 2658E) during 1967-1973. The breeding site tenacity of adult Chaffinches was very strong. Almost all of the certainly alive marked males bred in precisely the same area as in the previous year. In springs with superabundant food supplies and exceptional weather conditions, however, most of the younger (a + 1-yr) adults shifted elsewhere and only the older individuals remained faithful to their breeding area. Several factors may contribute to the great annual variation in the returning. The most probable explanation was that changes occur in the selection strategy of breeding sites among the younger adults in N Finland. The results also agreed with the conclusion that breeding site tenacity may decrease from south to north. For the Chaffinch, this decrease was effected by the younger adults. The situation for the Brambling was different. Adult Bramblings lack any faithfulness to their previous breeding sites, and they nested in different areas each year. Thus the Chaffinch (a southern species) and the Brambling (a northern species) displayed a significant difference in selection strategy of their breeding grounds. Furthermore, the importance of the present findings in studying population changes was briefly discussed.
10.2307/3676257|Hen Red Grouse in north-east Scotland were tracked by radio to find how they used their potential feeding areas. As the breeding season approached, they switched from wide-ranging movements to localized feeding in places where their staple food, heather Calluna vulgaris (L.) Hull, was richer in nitrogen. Feeding also became slower and more deliberate in manner, and tended to continue later into the morning. Where the heather at large was comparatively low in N content, site selection appeared to be more intense.
10.2307/3675913|In experiments with artificial nests each supplied with one egg and placed in spruce trees in woodland at Trondheim, more nests were robbed when Hooded Crows Corvus corone cornix had been recorded in their vicinity. Fewer nests were robbed if they were located within rather than outside Fieldfare Turdus pilaris colonies. The protection provided by the Fieldfare was particularly evident when fledgeling Fieldfares were present in the vicinity of the artificial nests. Data presented indicate that the nests of other bird species are also safer from predation when built within a Fieldfare colony. The proportion of complete nesting failures by individual Fieldfare pairs due to nest predation seemed to decrease with increasing size of colony. Low predation of the eggs occurred in artificial nests sited near the nest of a Sparrow Hawk Accipiter nisus.
10.2307/3675900|Purple Sandpipers were virtually absent in June, numbers increased between July and November, and decreased in April and May. Birds which arrived in autumn remained within the area until they departed in spring, though some carried out short-distance movements. Many birds returned to the same winter quarters in successive years. The average proportion of first-year birds was 24%. It was estimated that the population was composed of 86% Norwegian-breeding birds, the remaining 14% may come from Iceland. 58% were males. Adults and first-years had similar bill lengths. Wing lengths of adults remained constant between October and May but decreased over the migration and breeding seasons. Half of the population completed moult of the primaries by the end of September. Mass was stable between late autumn and early spring. First-years and adults had similar masses, and both increased in mass during early May prior to emigration.
10.2307/3676695|Almost all species of seabirds at Horny and Reiny are increasing in numbers. The Herring Gull colony is one of the largest in Europe. Most species feed mainly on capelin, but sandeels are important for Brnnich's Guillemots, Razorbills and Shags. Diets remained closely similar from year to year but consistently differed between species. Puffins and Razorbills fed largely on immature fish while other species took mostly two year old fish. The majority of the two year old capelin consumed by auks in June and July were ripe, although most capelin spawn in March and April. Foraging ranges were extremely short, breeding success and chick growth rates unsually high. Food consumption totalled <tex-math>$9000\ \text{tonnes}\ {\rm yr}^{-1}$</tex-math>, of which 7500 tonnes were capelin. Food appeared to be superabundant, and dietary differences between species probably reflect anatomical and behavioural adaptations rather than niche partitioning through active competition. Seabirds appear to select capelin of high lipid content since they fed predominantly on ripe two year old fish during chick-rearing, when spent fish were of poorer nutritional value.
10.2307/3676705|To study the effect of food availability on the onset of reproduction, clutch-size and breeding success in the Blue Parus caeruleus and Great Tit P. major, we experimentally supplied food on parts of a holm oak study site in Mediterranean France during two consecutive years and compared the birds' responses with the natural patterns in holm and downy oak habitats. In the Blue Tit, the mean stage of nest construction was significantly more advanced in the experimental than in the control area in one year; the mean laying date was significantly earlier in the experimental area in both years (difference 6 d in 1986, and 5 d in 1987). Results for the Great Tit showed the same but non-significant trend. For both species, no significant differences in clutch-size were found between experimental and control birds. Supplemental feeding did not increase the Blue Tit's breeding success which was even significantly lower in the experimental than in the control area in 1987. In that year, the experiments apparently advanced laying to the extent that nestlings were present prior to the food peak. We conclude that food availability does not limit laying but rather acts as a stimulus triggering it. However, our results do not exclude that feeding conditions in early spring may also influence the onset of laying by enhancing the physiological condition of the pre-laying female.
10.2307/3676078|The Black-browed Albatross Diomedea melanophris and Grey-headed Albatross D. chrysostoma are similar in size and weight and breed at the same time, but have substantial dietary differences. To study the effects of diet on growth, the eggs of ten Grey-headed were exchanged with those of ten Black-browed Albatrosses and the growth of these fostered chicks were compared with those reared by their own parents in the same season. Although the chicks of both species altered their growth patterns in response to dietary differences, they were limited by species specific constraints on growth. These results, together with observations on breeding success, suggest that both the growth patterns of the chicks and breeding patterns of the adults of these two species are adaptations to differences in their food and feeding ecology.
10.2307/3676042|The composition of Parus assemblages was recorded for 88 local bird communities in western Europe. The number of Parus species in a habitat (assemblage size) was found to be most closely correlated with the number of other tree-foraging passerine species, suggesting that the building up of Parus assemblages is presumably determined by habitat attributes. Only about one third of all possible combinations with the six available species are found in nature. Mean interspecific difference in bill length (MBD) is significantly higher in combinations which do occur. Among occurring assemblages, MBD values and the number of times combinations have been recorded are positively correlated. Each Parus species has a critical threshold value of coexisting congeneric species above which its presence in the assemblage is highly predictable. Species are added to the group in a fairly ordered fashion: smallest assemblages are made up of extreme-billed species, and middle-billed species are added as assemblage size increases. Non-random patterns in the constitution of local Parus assemblages are discussed by considering simultaneously the upper limit set on assemblage size by habitat quality and the competitive processes leading to stable, non-invasible configurations.
10.2307/3676084|Aspects of courtship behaviour and parental care in the European Robin were studied during the 1978 and 1979 breeding seasons. Data suggest that 'courtship' feeding serves a nutritional role, particularly during incubation. Female Robins with high rates of 'contact' calls produce larger clutches than females with low rates of 'contact' calling. Males reduce their mates reproductive costs by providing a large proportion of the food required by nestlings during first and successive broods, and by tending fledglings from first broods. During the fledgling period young 'contact' call at a constant rate, but parents operate a 'mean' strategy by apparently feeding at a predetermined rate. Two 'consort' males failed to feed or defend 'adopted' young.
10.2307/3676713|Although significant repeatability (r = 0.23) of clutch size of individual Willow Grouse Lagopus lagopus was observed in an area in northern Norway, the data did not indicate any heritable effects on clutch size. The greatest source of variation in the clutch sizes of individual hens was the date of clutch initiation.
10.2307/3675940|The interrelations at the site of a feeder, the winter home range and dominance rank were studied in male Great Tits during four successive winters. In juvenile males, both those leaving the population at the end of the winter as well as those recruited to the next breeding population, dominance rank was not influenced by the site of the feeder. In contrast, the social position of adult males was in some years clearly affected by the site of the feeder. During the territorial period (March-April) the site of the feeder as a determinant of dominance, in settled males, was not always clear.
10.2307/3676420|Six free-roaming flocks of Willow Tits Parus montanus were supplied with radio-actively labelled sunflower seeds in two experimental designs. In the first design all seeds were given at one location in the territory. The tits then retrieved most hoarded seeds in a few days, similar to Marsh Tits P. palustris encountering an ephemeral food source during the winter. In this situation, food is stored at a high rate and retrieved shortly after storing. In the second design the same amount of seeds was provisioned at five different sites in each territory. This design resulted in more widely distributed caches which increased retrieval time by a factor of four. This shows that retrieval time is dependent on the distribution of caches in the territory. Other factors than cache dispersal that may affect retrieval time in tits, such as the energetic value of food are also discussed. Finally, possible mechanisms affecting the evolutionary stability of hoarding in tits, are outlined.
10.2307/3676353|The results of a study of polygyny in a marked population of Hen Harriers in Orkney are presented. Data on 37-62 nests were collected annually from 1967-74. Since about 1950 a high proportion of adult males were polygynous, but most first year birds were monogamous. Hatching success of eggs and the mean number of young fledged per nest were higher in monogamous situations involving adult males than in polygynous ones. Males with three or more females, however, gave rise to more young than those which were monogamous. The distribution of nests tended to be clumped with a mean distance to the nearest nest of 0.81 km. Adult males were fairly regularly spaced over moorland at a mean density of 0.38 per km<sup>2</sup> and the mean distance between them was 1.10 km. The mean distance between first year males and the nearest adult male was significantly less. There was a significant overall excess of females fledged and in the breeding population there were about twice the number of females as males. Polygyny apparently became frequent in Orkney when the breeding population exceeded about 50 females. It is suggested that polygyny enables more females to breed than could do otherwise when the region's holding capacity of males, as regulated by social factors, has been attained.
10.2307/3676738|Cattle Egrets forage in association with ungulates in Kenya. However, they do not forage with all species of ungulates, but select herds with hosts that take an average of 5-15 steps per minute and avoid slower- or faster-moving herds. Within herds having attending egrets, egret steps are positively correlated with host steps, and the number of capture attempts and items obtained are positively correlated with the number of host steps. Thus, foraging egrets can use host steps as a predictor of prey availability and host suitability. A stepwise regression showed that the best model for items obtained included host species, host steps and egret steps. Cattle Egrets preferred to forage behind zebra Equus burchelli, waterbuck Kobus defassa, wildebeest Connochaetes taurinus and buffalo Syncerus caffer.
10.2307/3676646|During the migratory season, the metabolism of night migrants has to deal with three main physiological situations and their transitions: (1) feeding during the day for fat deposition, (2) overnight fasting during stop-over and (3) nocturnal flight. Plasma metabolite levels of glucose, uric acid, triglycerides, free fatty acids, glycerol and -hydroxy-butyrate (-OHB) were used in Principal Component Analyses to determine independent factors which characterize these physiological situations and allowed the comparison of three species of night migrants: Garden Warbler Sylvia borin, Pied Flycatcher Ficedula hypoleuca and European Robin Erithacus rubecula. During overnight fasting, all three species had a low fat metabolism and protein catabolism. During feeding, birds showed high triglyceride and uric acid levels. During flight, birds were characterized by a high fat metabolism and protein breakdown with the particular feature of having high triglyceride levels. Differences among species during flight suggest that the Garden Warbler showed the most specialized metabolic adaptations to endurance flight relying most strongly on fat and having the highest body fat reserves. The Robin showed the opposite pattern and the pattern of the Pied Flycatcher was intermediate. Birds in transition between the main physiological situations were characterized by a low glucose/-OHB ratio.
10.2307/3675956|We manipulated broods of European Starlings to produce brood sizes of 3, 5, and 7 nestlings, and recorded the masses of adults throughout the nesting cycle. Males generally weighed more than females except during the laying period. Both sexes lost mass during the incubation and nestling periods, although the loss of somatic mass was most pronounced during the early part of the nestling period. Only at the end of the nestling period, and only among males, was body mass inversely related to the mass of the brood at the time of weighing. Repeated weighings of individuals during the second half of the nestling period revealed that females lost more mass than males, and adults rearing broods of 5 lost more than those rearing brooks of 3, although the average rate of loss was only 0.1 g day<sup>-1</sup>. Although mass loss is clearly associated with breeding and there are some indications that it is associated with level of effort, our results did not reveal convincing evidence for physiological stress.
10.2307/3676739|We tested the "egg viability" hypothesis in the House Sparrow Passer domesticus by comparing the hatchability of clutches with different degrees of hatching asynchrony using multiple linear regression analysis. Hatching duration was directly and independently affected by clutch size, laying date and temperature. Taking these factors into account, nests with positive residuals (asynchronous nests) had a greater probability of hatching the early laid eggs successfully. This indicates that by starting incubation early and hatching asynchronously, birds may reduce embryo mortality. Asynchronous nests fledged a greater proportion of early-hatched young, but total nestling mortality did not differ between asynchronous and synchronous nests. Nestling mortality due to intrabrood competition did not constrain hatching asynchrony. The presence of highly synchronous broods seemed to indicate that in some cases hatching asynchrony was precluded by constraints acting on the laying female.
10.2307/3676753|Similarities in song, morphology and habitat utilization of Thrush Nightingale and Nightingale, were studied in allopatric and sympatric situations. Responses of the two species to allopatric and sympatric intraspecific and interspecific songs were examined both in allopatry and sympatry. No morphological differences were found between allopatric and sympatric populations. Habitat utilization converged from allopatry to sympatry along most dimensions studied but diverged along one dimension, the topographic gradient: in sympatry the Nightingale used hilly habitats more often than in allopatry; this niche shift of the Nightingale may be connected with the presence of the Thrush Nightingale. In sympatry the two species were interspecifically territorial and playback experiments demonstrated interspecific responses of the two species. The more similar the song was to their own version, the more often the male responded to it. However, sympatric Thrush Nightingales responded similarly to all songs regardless of whether they showed more or less similarity to their own song, and they responded significantly more often to heterospecific songs than did sympatric Nightingales. According to a principal component analysis based on structural characters of the song, there was a one-sided song convergence from allopatry to sympatry among male Thrush Nightingales. However, most sympatric Thrush Nightingale males were mixed-singers with both conspecific and heterospecific songs in their repertoires, and only few males sang only songs similar to those of the Nightingale. In both allopatry and sympatry the Thrush Nightingale males shared more songs, conspecific or interspecific, with their nearest neighbours than with males singing farther away. The possible effects of territory competition between the two species on changes in their distribution are discussed.
10.2307/3676776|I measured wing lengths and weighed female Tengmalm's Owls at 404 nests during 1977-88 and males at 293 nests during 1979-88 in western Finland. Breeding females lost mass from the pre-laying and laying periods to the incubation stage and during the nestling period, whereas they kept constant mass during incubation. The body mass of breeding males did not change from the late incubation and hatching periods to the late nestling phase. The mean mass loss of breeding females was larger in poor vole years than in good ones. The yearly mean body mass of females was positively correlated with the spring trap index of Microtus and Clethrionomys glareolus, but this relationship was not significant for males. The wings of females were longer and bodies heavier on good territories than on poor ones, but territory quality did not affect the body mass of males. Intersexual differences in the seasonal and between-year changes in body mass were probably associated with different breeding duties of the sexes. Males do most of the hunting and cannot lay down large reserves that increase flight costs. Incubating and brooding females adopt the "passive storage role"; they are able to fast on average five days based on their body reserves at the start of breeding. The results of the study mainly support the "adaptation hypothesis" (the mass reduction of adult birds rearing young is an evolved adaptation), but the fact that females lost more mass in poor years than in good ones is better explained by the "stress hypothesis" (mass reduction is caused by food shortage and hard work).
10.2307/3676440|The rabbit Oryctolagus cuniculus is the most common prey of many predators in Mediterranean ecosystems, but how its abundance affects the productivity of its predators has been poorly studied. The Black Kite Milvus migrans is a generalist predator, but in our study area eats mainly rabbits. There was considerable year to year variation in the proportions of the nine prey types examined in the diet. The abundance of young and sick rabbits seemed to determine the consumption rate of rabbits by Black Kites. Interannual variation in reproductive performance (chick starvation mortality, fledging weight and length of the nestling period) was related to the proportion of rabbits in the diet, a year of high performance coinciding with a high proportion of rabbits in the diet. Some factors explaining the importance of rabbits for the reproductive success of this raptor are discussed.
10.2307/3676652|The expression of reproductive behaviors by songbirds outside of the breeding season suggests that these behaviors do not require gonadal hormones for their activation. However, many of these behaviors can be activated by estrogens, and castration of some songbirds does not eliminate estrogens from the circulation or eliminate estrogen-dependent effects on brain. Therefore, it is possible that reproductive and aggressive behaviors remain activated by endogenous estrogen when circulating androgens are low. We have measured plasma androgen and estrogen in a group of captive, winter White-crowned Sparrows Zonotrichia leucophrys. As expected, sex steroids were present at low levels in plasma. Nevertheless, estrogens (estradiol and estrone combined) were detected in the blood of most birds (adult males and immature males and females). In addition, we measured aromatase activity in brain and found high amounts of aromatase in the telencephalon, as has been reported for the Zebra Finch Poephila guttata. Because brain may be a source of circulating estrogen in songbirds, it is possible that the estrogen found in plasma of winter sparrows comes from brain and activates some reproductive behavior at this time of year.
10.2307/3676555|Among Tengmalm's Owls ringed in Norway, natal and female breeding dispersal distances were longer if dispersal took place during a microtine prey population low than if dispersal occurred within a microtine peak. Of the recorded cases of female breeding dispersal, 13% could be termed nomadic (dispersal distance > 100 km). Female and overall natal dispersal distances were longer than female breeding dispersal distances. Natal dispersal distances tended to be longer in females than males. Adult females dispersed farther after nest predation than after successful nesting. Extra mortality in adult females due to nest predation may only be small, and will in itself not select for nomadism, as recently suggested.
10.2307/3676122|A population of Golden Plovers was studied for 6 yr on breeding grounds in northeast Scotland. Winter loss, the time when birds returned in spring, and breeding dates were correlated with low temperatures and/or snow. Egg predation varied from 0-75% in different years, but the mean production of young was estimated to be enough to keep the population stable. Birds nested in short heather, and broods were found on patches of grass covering <1% of the moorland. Although most marked pairs stayed together on the same territories in successive years, some changed territories and partners. First-year birds were sexually mature, had as much black on the ventral parts as older ones, and showed no increase in the amount of black with age. The darkness of the male was significantly related to that of the female paired with him. The existence of two sub-species Pluvialis apricaria apricaria (L.) and P. a. altifrons (Brehm) is discussed along with colonisation of 'sub-optimal' areas by northern birds on abbreviated migration; both ideas are rejected.
10.2307/3676423|Breeding success of three species of Iberian shrubsteppe bird communities (Galerida theklae, Calandrella rufescens and Oenanthe hispanica) was analyzed. Nest mortality was very high (83.2, 80.8 and 67.9%, respectively), almost double Ricklefs' (1969) mean of 43.6% for open nests in temperate regions. Adding partial losses, breeding success was 14.9, 15.7 and 26.4%. The main cause of loss was predation (around 55-75% of total losses during the incubation period and 70-100% during the nestling period). Differences in daily survival rates during the nestling stage were found between O. hispanica and the two lark species; inter-annual differences were found in C. rufescens; in O. hispanica there was variation between sites. We suggest that high mortality rates are a common feature in Mediterranean shrub-steppe passerines and contribute to an advancement of breeding time. Furthermore, only the existence of metapopulations, with a high degree of annual and local variation in mortality rates, explains how these populations remain stable.
10.2307/3676228|The numbers of Dunlins present during the year on the coasts of north-west Africa are summarised. Information on timing of migration, ringing recoveries, and analysis of bill lengths is used to determine the geographical origins of these birds. Most individuals are from the breeding populations in southern Scandinavia, western Europe, and Iceland, so that Morocco and Mauritania are of unique importance to these populations in the non-breeding season. There is some overlap in Morocco with populations from the northern Eurasian breeding grounds whose main wintering area is further north in Western Europe. The north-west African birds migrate in short flights without putting on large fat reserves. Many birds moult their primary feathers during migration.
10.2307/3676726|From a simple model we calculate the maximum possible foraging range of nesting Black-headed Gulls with one nestling. The maximum foraging range, defined as the radius where the energy budget is balanced, increases from about 5 to 15 km during the nesting period. These numerical values agree with observations on radio-tagged gulls. Between 1982 and 1986 we counted Black-headed Gulls along 10 transects around a large gullery. The density of gulls depended on month and transect location, and increased from sunny to rainy weather. In all months except April the density of gulls decreased with the distance from the colony. In June the gull density showed an abrupt decline at a distance of 12 to 15 km from the colony, as expected from the calculations of the maximum possible foraging radius.
10.2307/3676222|Air temperature was compared with body temperature, weight, breathing rate, depth of sleep, and frequency of shivering in 25 Willow Tits Parus montanus, 8 Siberian Tits P. cinctus, and 1 Great Tit P. major kept overnight in special roosting boxes outdoors at Skoganvarre, Finnmark (69 50N) in Jan.-Feb. 1960. Body temperature was measured in proventriculus in the evening, night, and morning. In both cinctus and montanus, temperature at sleep was on the average 5 C lower than standard deep body temperature in the day, but only in cinctus correlated with air temperature (r = +0.84; P<0.02). Weight loss, frequency of shivering, and breathing rate varied inversely with air temperature in both species. Shivering probably stabilizes body temperature at a level preventing dangerous physiological development. It is suggested that hypothermia is an important adaptation to the winter cold and restricted food supply.
10.2307/3676101|Numbers, breeding distribution, and dynamics of a closed goose population are analysed using data from 1948-1976, during which period the numbers have increased from about 300 to 7200. The birds now nest mainly on coastal islands and although the population has more than doubled since 1970 there has been little expansion of range. Mortality was high in the late sixties but decreased to an average of 10% in the 1970s. This, together with a slight improvement in breeding success, allowed numbers to increase. The weather in Svalbard is the main factor regulating recruitment, although winter conditions, in their effect on the ability of the geese to build-up body reserves, affect the population's breeding potential. Future population levels are discussed. It is predicted that the availability of nesting habitat will eventually limit recruitment and if it is limited to the present level that numbers are likely to stabilise at between 8000 and 12,000 birds.
10.2307/3676898|Changes in different aspects of parental care of Wheatears with nestling age and brood size were studied over 4 yr in two Swedish breeding populations. Some broods were enlarged or reduced to increase the range of observed brood sizes. The proportion of time females spent brooding decreased with nestling age until day 8, but the mean duration of brooding bouts did not, implying that females reduced the frequency of brooding bouts as homeothermic capacity of the young improved. Females reduced mean bout duration with brood size but not the total time spent brooding. The different effects of nestling age and brood size, and the negative effect of females' feeding rates on brooding commitment suggest that the food requirements of the young may affect female brooding behaviour independently of the homeothermic capacity of the young. Feeding rates of males and females increased similarly throughout the nestling period and reached a plateau from day 9 to fledging at about day 14. Load size and prey size increased with nestling age, and the proportions of spiders and small caterpillars in the diet of nestlings decreased. Males delivered larger loads than females. The relationship between feeding rates and brood size during the plateau phase differed depending on whether manipulated broods were included in the analysis or not. For unmanipulated broods, feeding rates did not increase with brood size and there was thus a decrease in feeding rates per nestling with brood size. When including manipulated broods in the analysis, there was a decelerating positive relationship of feeding rates with brood size. When removing the small broods, no decrease in feeding rates per nestling with brood size was found in the joint analysis of all broods. Brood manipulations led to changes in feeding rates with respect to the normal pattern observed. Future studies of parental care should consider these effects of manipulations before deriving any definitive conclusion about brood size effects.
10.2307/3676260|Young rabbits Oryctolagus cuniculus caught by the female Hen Harrier Circus cyaneus were the main prey of nestlings in Orkney from 1975 to 1977. Males caught smaller prey items. It is suggested that as males provide most of the food when chicks are small (when mortality among chicks is highest) voles Microtus arvalis orcadensis may be an important item at this time unless suitable alternative prey are available. Growth curves for males and females showed that the sexes were clearly separable by weight. Nestling mortality was most closely associated with the order of hatching, with the last to hatch generally the first to die. There was an underlying trend for an imbalance in the sex ratio of nestlings in favour of females since 1953, which was most clearly seen in broods of three young. Differential mortality is suggested as the most likely explanation although no evidence was found for this from a detailed analysis of a sample of 79 broods from 1975 to 1978 for which full details were known.
10.2307/3676574|In a series of experiments the orientation behaviour of single pigeons was compared with that of small flocks (three and ten individuals). On the whole the flocks did not orientate better than birds released singly. However, there were indications of slight differences between single birds and flocks, suggesting that the dominance of single leaders may be influenced by other individuals even in small flocks. The results are compared with those reported by other authors on the impact of social influences on bird orientation.
10.2307/3676070|Mist-net captures during short periods (about seven days) and in different Willow Tit territories were analysed to investigate whether vagrant, non-territorial birds ("floaters") could be discovered among the territorial group-members during August and September. Only first-year birds were mobile during the summer. By late summer, all first-year birds were immigrants to the territories where they were caught. About 50% of them could not be definitely determined as territorial; these individuals were re-netted at longer distances than the territorial first-year birds, and the proportion of such birds in the daily capture of previously uncaptured first-year birds increased as netting continued within the same territory. Birds not re-observed as territorial were more mobile after and, perhaps, also before the first capture than the territorial ones and they can be regarded as non-territorial.
10.2307/3676055|The habitat and site preferences of Common Uria aalge (L.) and Brunnich's Uria lomvia (L.) Guillemots on Bear Island, where the two species often breed side by side, were examined. Brunnich's Guillemots breed only on cliff ledges, where they rest their breasts against rock faces. Common Guillemots choose cliff ledges with ample room for the mate to stand beside the incubating bird; they also breed very densely on flat rocky surfaces. The behaviour of each species during aggressive encounters and when landing at the colony, considered with situations on ledges where both species breed together, suggests how interspecific competition may lead to the ousting of Brunnich's by Common Guillemots. The adaptation of Brunnich's Guillemots to narrow ledges is considered to be related to the evolution of the species in the Arctic environment.
10.2307/3676405|The post-nuptial primary moult of adult (2-year-birds included) Dunlins was investigated along the Baltic coast at Ottenby and Falsterbo, S. Sweden. These birds are on migration and only make short stopovers. During the years 1985-1988 at Ottenby, the proportions of moulting birds varied between 27% and 61%, probably due to annual variations in the timing of their passage. Compared with the older birds, 2-year-birds had more often initiated their moult and, on average, appeared in a more advanced stage of moult. Most of the Dunlins that had initiated moult were actively moulting - some feathers were not of full length and were found growing in a sample of caged individuals. The raggedness value (i.e. the gap due to not fully grown feathers) generally decreased in later stages of moult. By comparing raggedness values at given stages of moult, migrating Baltic birds generally had smaller gaps than non-migrating English conspecifics. Large gaps were correlated with lower body masses. The adaptive significance of commencing the moult prior to the arrival on moulting grounds and of moult during migration are discussed.
10.2307/3675898|This paper compares the patterns of migration of two congeneric warblers, moving from Britain to Africa, and aims to see how these might be influenced by the distribution of food supplies. Most Sedge Warblers fattened in southern England or northern France and overflew Iberia, while Reed Warblers paused and fattened in Portugal. The occurrence, duration of stay and rate of weight gain of Sedge Warblers depended on the abundance of the plum-reed aphid whose seasonality and distribution was broadly sufficient to predict the migration pattern. Reed Warblers showed no similar restrictions of diet, did not respond to aphid abundance and were able to achieve a similar rate of weight gain any time in September or October in Portugal. Migration strategies are discussed in evolutionary terms and shown to be appropriate responses to the pattern of food availability for birds with different feeding adaptations.
10.2307/3676377|In order to estimate the relative importance of environmental and genetical factors for the dominance status of young Great Tits at the time of their independence, a cross-fostering experiment involving 22 pairs of Great Tits breeding in deciduous and coniferous forests was performed. Adults and young were caught 15 d after hatching, and the birds were housed family-wise in indoor cages until the juveniles were independent of the adults. Dominance at a feeder was then determined for adults and juveniles in a series of tests, with groups of 5-6 birds of the same age and sex in each test. Resemblance between offspring and genetic and foster parents, respectively, was calculated by rank correlation. Resemblance in terms of dominance rank was similar between true parents and offspring, and foster parents and offspring, but the resemblance between dominance rank of foster mothers and offspring was larger than the resemblance between dominance rank of foster fathers and offspring. Furthermore, juvenile females raised in nests in deciduous forest on average had a higher dominance rank than those raised in coniferous forest, regardless of the origin of the eggs. I conclude that environmental factors are of primary importance for the dominance rank of Great Tits, while additive effects of genes are less important.
10.2307/3676643|Granulosa cells from resting or slow-growing follicles that have yet to enter the preovulatory hierarchy (1- to 8-mm in diameter) of the hen ovary are steroidogenically incompetent. The inability of granulosa tissue to synthesize the steroid precursor, pregnenolone, is due to the absence of cytochrome P450 side-chain cleavage (P450scc) enzyme activity. Cytochrome P450scc mRNA levels and enzyme activity can be induced in granulosa cells collected from 6- to 8-mm follicles, in vitro, by pretreatment with agents that induce cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) formation (e.g. forskolin, FSH). Prior and up to the 6- to 8-mm stage of development, the theca layer is solely responsible for ovarian progesterone, androgen and estrogen production; such steroidogenesis is under the regulatory control of pituitary gonadotropins (LH and, to a lesser extent, FSH). Spontaneous atresia is common in follicles 3- to 5-mm in diameter, and is functionally characterized by the activation of a nuclear endonuclease that cleaves genomic DNA into a series of 185-b.p. fragments and ultimately results in resorption of the follicle. We propose that this process (termed apoptosis) also mediates ovarian regression at the termination of the breeding period in seasonally-breeding birds.
10.2307/3676128|Kittiwake Rissa tridactyla chicks on Runde, West Norway grew more slowly and reached a lower peak weight than chicks on two small colonies in North Norway. Survival of chicks was also lower on Runde and chicks which died there tended to be lighter in weight than those which survived. Growth rate depended to some extent on the hatching sequence within 2-chick broods, and one year, when overall chick growth was slow, it also depended on brood size. Chick survival was independent of brood size, hatching sequence and egg size. These results are discussed in relation with those of other Kittiwake studies and studies of other Larid species.
10.2307/3676138|The experiment was carried out in South Norway from 1975 to 1977 (86 nestboxes in 1977). At the time of egg-laying by the Great Tit Parus major every nest-box was made uninhabitable, by various methods, except those which already contained tit nests. This led to increased efforts by the Pied Flycatcher Ficedula hypoleuca to take over tit nests. They were successful in only two out of 40 cases (one Great Tit's and one Coal Tit's Parus ater, nest) despite a late onset of spring, with delayed laying by the tits. Female flycatchers carried nesting material into another four tit nests. Mutual attacks were frequent and one male flycatcher was killed. Even after the cover of a nestbox had been removed and the entrance hole blocked, the male flycatcher remained singing in the immediate vicinity.
10.2307/3676765|We studied the response of wild-caught female Great Tits Parus major, implanted with estradiol, to playback of the songs of males of their own population and those of a population 8 km away. The females responded with a higher frequency of copulation solicitation displays to the local songs than to the distant songs. This supports earlier circumstantial evidence (McGregor and Krebs 1982a) that song structure is a factor in mate choice in the Great Tit.
10.2307/3676673|The migration of raptors at Falsterbo, Sweden was studied during five autumns, 1986-1990, to investigate the intraspecific temporal sequence of migration for different age and sex classes. The analysis is based on counts of between 45 and 72 321 individuals of 14 species. The percentage of juveniles varied among species and to some extent between years. This reflects a variable tendency of different migrants to concentrate at Falsterbo and fluctuating breeding success from year to year. Most species showed an even sex ratio. Marked exceptions were Marsh Harrier Circus aeruginosus and Hen Harrier C. cyaneus in which females constituted 60 and 61% respectively of adult migrants. This biassed sex ratio agrees with the tendency towards polygyny in these species. In tropical (long-distance) migrants adults migrated ahead of juveniles (Honey Buzzard Pernis apivorus, Montagu's Harrier Circus pygargus, Osprey Pandion haliaetus, and Hobby Falco subbuteo). It is suggested that it is advantageous for adults to arrive early on the wintering grounds, finish moult and accumulate energy reserves before spring migration and the next breeding season. Those short-distance migrants in which adults migrated before juveniles at Falsterbo are species whose majority leave Scandinavia in the winter (Hen Harrier, Common Buzzard Buteo buteo, Roughlegged Buzzard B. lagopus, Merlin Falco columbarius and Peregrine F. peregrinus). Adults leaving first have a greater possibility to secure a good winter territory forcing the juveniles, migrating later, to settle in less suitable habitat or to winter further south. In species where juveniles migrated ahead of adults a large proportion of the adults spend the winter close to the breeding grounds (Red Kite Milvus milvus, Goshawk Accipiter gentilis and Sparrowhawk A. nisus): The presumably subdominant juveniles may be excluded from the breeding territories by the adults and therefore migrate south, followed by a varying proportion of adults. Females generally migrated before males at Falsterbo due to different moult strategies; females starting and finishing moult of the flight feathers before males. This difference in timing of moult and migration is ultimately dependent on a marked role division between the sexes during the breeding cycle. In Honey Buzzard where both sexes share the breeding duties equally no difference in timing of migration was found. Social dominance, importance of early arrival at the winter quarters and moult strategies are the factors best explaining the observed differential timing in migrating raptors at Falsterbo.
10.2307/3676491|Changes in the availability of sandeels Ammodytes marinus have been shown to be the cause of recent widespread breeding failure of some surface feeding seabirds in Shetland. In this paper we compare the breeding performance and chick diet of Common and Arctic Terns in Shetland in 1988 with a previous study of these species in north-east England, when prey availability and breeding success were good. In Shetland young saithe Pollachius virens comprised 80% of the diet of Common Tern Sterna hirundo chicks in the first week of life. Chicks on this diet grew as well as those in north-east England. However, heavy predation of Common Tern young by avian predators appears to have occurred, and possible reasons for this are discussed. Arctic Terns S. paradisaea concentrated on sandeels; growth of their young was poor, and the majority died in the first week after hatching. We discuss otential explanations for the apparent inability of Arctic Terns to exploit saithe, which may relate to the energetics of chick growth and foraging economics.
10.2307/3676016|The standard deviations (SD) of density estimates, obtained for breeding land birds in line transects of the Finnish type, were studied in two regions in southern Finland. A multiple regression analysis revealed that SD can be estimated on the basis of three variables: the estimated average density of the species, the number of transects (median length 4.5-5 km) censused, and a species-specific coefficient used in estimating densities. The regression models "explained" 94-95% of the variation in log SD. The parameters in the models were extremely similar, and therefore a new model was derived by pooling the data. Main belt data yielded greater values of SD than survey belt data, especially if the density of the species was less than 5 <tex-math>$\text{pairs}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>. The models (one for the main belt and the other for the survey belt) were tested by using data from 11 independent regions in Finland and northern Norway. The observed SD values correlated highly significantly with the predicted ones (almost all correlations above 0.95). The correlation was equally high when all regions were analysed simultaneously, showing that the pattern was similar in all regions. The estimated density did not correlate with the error made in the prediction. Because of the good fit of the predictions the method can be used in order to derive estimates of SD (and, as a result, confidence limits) for density estimates obtained in line transects, probably in wide geographical regions in Europe (or elsewhere in areas where general habitat structure is similar).
10.2307/3676134|The female Goldcrest incubates alone and is not regularly fed by her mate. Incubation starts gradually already during the egg-laying period, and may be fully developed before the clutch is completed. From that time onward the hourly mean egg temperature remains remarkably constant, largely independent of time of day and weather conditions. The overall mean egg temperature, recorded during the continuous incubation period, was 36.54C. The female regulated the temperature of the eggs by adjusting her attentive time. This is achieved by (1) varying the duration of the periods-off, which is inversely correlated with air temperature, and (2) varying the duration of the periods-on, which is less influenced by the weather conditions, but is significantly correlated with the time of day (light intensity), on average being shortest during the midday hours.
10.2307/3676263|Ringing recoveries, simulated recoveries and observational data have been used to describe the migration of the Ringed Plover. The analysis indicates the presence of eight wintering regions. These are, the British Isles; southern France and northern Spain; the Iberian peninsula; north west Africa; north east Africa; the Arabian peninsula; western and southern Africa; south east Asia. Allopatric breeding populations occupy the same regions in winter (synheimic) throughout much of the northern and western portions of the winter range. The phenomenon of "leap frog" migration exists, but is less distinct than reported by earlier studies.
10.2307/3676720|Caching and recovery of domestic fowl eggs put out as artificial nests were studied. Caching distance increased with the egg's rank in the predation sequence of each nest, and nearest neighbour distance between eggs cached increased with caching distance. Eggs from nests at intermediate distances from the crows' own nest, and eggs with short caching distances, were cached randomly with respect to direction. Eggs from nests located close to the crows' nest were transported away from the crows' nest before being cached, while eggs from nests located far away from the crows' own nest were carried towards the crows' nest before being cached. Eggs cached near the crows' own nest were opened at the caching site, and the content carried to the nest in several round-trips. Eggs cached farther away were carried whole to an egg shell dump, and opened there. These strategies of caching and recovering eggs seem to be trade-offs between the gain of scattering the caches and the cost of defending them, and between the cost of transport during each recovery and the cost of attracting predators to the crows' own nest due to occurrence of empty egg shells.
10.2307/3676703|Seasonal changes in metabolizable energy intake (MEI), daily energy expenditure (DEE) and apparent dry matter digestibility (ADMD) were examined in captive Svalbard Ptarmigan and Norwegian Willow Ptarmigan. In Willow Ptarmigan neither DEE, MEI nor ADMD underwent seasonal changes. DEE was almost equal to MEI and averaged <tex-math>$115\ {\rm kcal}\cdot {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math>, while ADMD averaged 53%. In August-November MEI of Svalbard Ptarmigan averaged <tex-math>$139\ {\rm kcal}\cdot {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math>, of which 8% was deposited as body fat and protein. During November-March MEI of Svalbard Ptarmigan averaged only <tex-math>$73\ {\rm kcal}\cdot {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math>. ADMD of Svalbard Ptarmigan was only weakly related to food intake. DEE of Norwegian Willow Ptarmigan was close to the value predicted by Kendeigh (1970). Thus, we failed to expose any particular adaptations to life at high latitudes with regard to the presently studied parameters in this species. DEE of Svalbard Ptarmigan fell substantially below predicted values during autumn and winter (August-March). This indicates that Svalbard Ptarmigan reduce their DEE in the autumn to facilitate the deposition of fat and that DEE is kept low throughout the dark part of winter when food is in short supply and energy economy attains supreme importance.
10.2307/3676175|Numbers of breeding pairs, non-breeding individuals, and fledged young of the bird community of an oligotrophic lake (<tex-math>$44\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>) were estimated during 1974. Food consumption of the birds was estimated by means of three methods based on existence energy, standard metabolic rate, and a new regression from estimates of food consumption of birds living in the wild. Energy requirement of the community amounted to <tex-math>$1.9\ {\rm kcal}/{\rm m}^{2}/\text{year}$</tex-math>, of which 1.1 was consumed April to September. This is 0.3 to 0.6 per cent of the estimated primary production. Fish consumption of the birds was estimated at <tex-math>$0.8\ {\rm g}/{\rm m}^{2}/\text{year}$</tex-math>, of which Mergus merganser L. took 62 per cent. Fishermen removed 0.2 to <tex-math>$0.3\ {\rm g}\ \text{fish}/{\rm m}^{2}/\text{year}$</tex-math>. Energy flow through birds in different ecosystems and the role of birds in the lake are discussed. On present evidence the birds cannot be considered detrimental to the fishery.
10.2307/3676507|We recorded the duration of successive dives and pauses during sequences of foraging by wintering Common Eiders Somateria mollissima in the Gulf of St. Lawrence. The length of each pause on the surface between dives increases at an increasing rate with the length of the preceding dive. Based on this relationship, the deviation from the estimated surface time (DEVEST, for short) was computed for each dive. DEVEST is positively correlated over short series of dive-cycles. The significance of these results is discussed and compared with an earlier study on Western Grebes Aechmophorus occidentalis.
10.2307/3676576|Alerstam and Hgstedt (1980) proposed an explanation for 'leap-frog' migration: the wintering of northern-breeding populations of some species in areas further south than those from more southerly breeding areas. They suggested that there is strong selection on birds breeding in areas with marked between-year variation in onset of spring to remain during winter in the same climatic region so that they can respond quickly to favourable conditions; and that this is not possible for arctic-breeding birds, which thus obtain no extra advantage in wintering in the northernmost parts of the possible non-breeding range. We note that they unnecessarily complicated their argument by claiming that the onset of spring is generally less variable between years in arctic than in temperate regions: other studies cast doubt on this. We challenge Alerstam and Hgstedt's hypothesis, particularly in respect of waders on which it is based, on several grounds, namely their assumptions: (i) that there is a premium on birds in all areas starting to breed as early as possible in spring; (ii) that birds wintering in the same climatic region as the breeding area detect suitable conditions before migrating, and adjust their time of departure accordingly; and (iii) that longer migrations add little to the cost of migration. We also find unsound Alerstam and Hgstedt's reinterpretation of Pienkowski and Dick's (1975) study of Dunlin migration, and note problems in several of the other examples cited in support of their hypothesis. We discuss other factors which could lead to the observed migration patterns of shorebirds in western Palaearctic and adjacent areas.
10.2307/3676761|Body temperature was measured by means of implanted temperature sensitive transmitters in 7 Puffin chicks during natural behaviour in the nest burrows. The overall mean body temperature in the smallest chicks (weighing 52 to 106 g, approx. age 9 d) was 38.0C, while chicks weighing 153 to 256 g (15 to 20 d old) had a mean body temperature of 38.5C. The larger chicks showed no diurnal changes in body temperature. However, two daily minima were found in the youngest chicks. The lowest values of T<sub> B</sub> were found at about 03.00 and 18.00 hours, apparently coinciding with the daily maxima in feeding activity. It is suggested that periods of low body temperature in these young chicks is caused by the nonbrooding behaviour of the adults while feeding the chicks and a direct cooling effect of eating cold fish. Low body temperatures (down to 31.1C) were recorded in connection with periods of heavy rainfall.
10.2307/3676480|Body temperature, <tex-math>${\rm O}_{2}\text{-uptake}$</tex-math>, evaporative water loss, ventilation and heat dissipation from the feet were measured at various ambient temperatures in the European Coot Fulica atra. Resting metabolic rate within the thermoneutral zone (20-34C) was <tex-math>$6.08\ {\rm W}\cdot {\rm kg}^{-1}$</tex-math>. Below the lower critical temperature, the standard metabolic rate (SMR) increased according to the formula: <tex-math>${\rm SMR}=12.55-0.33\cdot {\rm T}_{{\rm A}}$</tex-math>, where SMR is expressed in <tex-math>${\rm W}\cdot {\rm kg}^{-1}$</tex-math>, and T<sub> A</sub> is ambient temperature in C. Body temperature averaged 39.6C  0.6C at ambient air temperatures between -28C and 30C. Evaporative heat loss was insufficient to regulate body temperature during heat stress (<tex-math>${\rm T}_{{\rm A}}=40{{}^\circ}{\rm C}$</tex-math>), and prolonged exposure to this temperature when the birds were out of water resulted in hyperthermia. At 20C respiratory frequency and tidal volume were 20 breaths per minute and 9.7 ml per kg, respectively. Moderate heat loads (<tex-math>${\rm T}_{{\rm A}}=35{{}^\circ}{\rm C}$</tex-math>) doubled respiratory frequency, while tidal volume fell slightly. With the feet water immersed, the coots were able to increase heat loss from the feet by a factor of 185 when the ambient temperature was raised from 10C to 40C, indicating a major role of the feet for maintenance of thermal balance.
10.2307/3676719|Vocalizations of Baird's Sandpiper were recorded in northeastern Alaska, U.S.A. Males beat the wings continuously in a loose deep flutter during display flights. They utter Rhythmically Repeated Calls (RRCs), Song and Chatter in display flights, and a Laugh when mildly disturbed. RRCs averaged 690 ms long with intervals between them of 280 ms. They have a "buzzy" quality because they comprise a series of rapidly repeated pulses (pulse rate = 77 Hz). Songs are long, complex, multipartite utterances, and usually include Chatter at the end. Laughs are brief, simple trills consisting of a single element type repeated several times. RRCs, Chatter and Laugh are structurally homologous with call types described for other calidridine species. Phylogenetic affinities and signalling distance account for many of the acoustic features of Calidridini.
10.2307/3676550|Female Great Tits Parus major and Blue Tits Parus caeruleus have longer bills than males in the breeding season while males have longer bills in winter. Using data from a long-term nestbox program we found no relationship between parental bill difference and number of fledglings or fledgling weight. Our data therefore do not support the hypothesis that sexual bill dimorphism is an adaptive response reducing intra-pair competition for food.
10.2307/3676325|Morphology-mediated niche organization among six dabbling duck species was studied by recognizing the morphological (neck length, bill morphology) differences between the species and testing the compatibility of these differences with ecological data (feeding habitat, depth and method, food). The following main results emerged: (1) Differences in neck (and body) length enable differential use of the feeding habitat. This is only partial, however, and the results suggest that feeding habitat is not easily partitioned (horizontally) by means of differences in neck length. A more important function of neck length seems to be (2) the differential use of the feeding depth dimension in the same feeding habitat (i.e. vertically). (3) At the same feeding depth some differences in the use of food type can be achieved by means of differences in bill morphology. Distribution of species in the morphologically defined niche hyperspace and competition-based interpretations of the results are discussed.
10.2307/3676572|Fluctuations in the breeding populations of tits (Paridae) were studied in North Zealand, Denmark, in 1964-1981 on plots with a surplus of nestboxes. Average breeding densities in pairs per 10 ha were about 11, 1 and 6 in coniferous plots and about 15, 5 and 1 in deciduous plots for the Great Tit Parus major, the Blue Tit P. caeruleus and the Coal Tit P. ater, respectively. It was concluded from the data that fluctuations in the Great Tit and Blue Tit breeding populations are closely related to winter food availability. Specifically, among variables describing winter climate and food supply the beechmast production was by far the most important for explaining the population fluctuations of these two species. In addition severe winter climate had some negative effect on the Great Tit, while no such influence was found for the Blue Tit. The conclusions for the Coal Tit are less clear; however, the data suggest that the severity of the winter may be more important than the variation in food production. In addition to results for the three tit species, statistical models for analysis of bird population fluctuations are discussed.
10.2307/3676306|In all 32 recoveries of Yellow-nosed Albatrosses banded on Nightingale, Tristan da Cunha suggest that the immatures migrate to the water off SW-Africa but return to the breeding islands as adults some years later. Only one adult (aged 32 yr) was recovered in SW-African waters. All other birds, aged from 8 to nearly 37 yr, were recovered during nesting season on Nightingale. Recovery rate is ca. 5%.
10.2307/3676831|Seasonal variations in plasma levels of luteinizing hormone (LH), dihydrotestosterone (DHT), testosterone and estradiol (only in females) were studied in free-living adult and juvenile Willow Tits from southwest Sweden. All hormones, except DHT, showed pronounced annual cycles. For both sexes, and both age groups, LH titers showed a typical bimodal pattern with transitional peaks during the breeding period and early autumn. Also, LH levels increased significantly in January and remained elevated throughout the winter. Male plasma levels of testosterone also showed a bimodal pattern with peaks occurring concomitant with LH. The August - September peak was, however, caused by some juveniles having very high plasma levels of testosterone, whereas the majority of juveniles and all adults showed low testosterone levels at this time. Female testosterone values did not vary significantly during the year, but in junvenile females testosterone levels showed a transitional peak in August. Estradiol showed only one significant annual peak - during the breeding period. The winter increase in plasma levels of LH was not accompanied by changes in testosterone, or estradiol, titers. In spring, male LH and testosterone levels started increasing a month earlier than LH and estradiol in females.
10.2307/3676124|In migratory bird species with a breeding range extending from warm temperate to arctic regions, populations from the latter often winter south of the temperate populations (so-called leap-frog migration). We suggest that this is explained by a great adaptive value for birds breeding in temperate areas with a relatively long and irregular spring to remain during winter within the same climatic regime close to their breeding sites in order to respond directly to the development in spring of favourable breeding conditions. The advancement of arctic spring is more regular, and arctic birds may well migrate far away from their breeding sites and still return at optimal breeding time by use of their circannual clock. This is necessary, since once the arctic birds have migrated out of the polar climatic zone, they are prevented from detecting spring progress at their breeding grounds. Migratory patterns are particularly well documented in different species of waders and lend support to this explanation. The Dunlin Calidris alpina has been reported to differ from the expected pattern, birds from W. Europe migrating to NW Africa while many birds from arctic regions winter in Europe. We have examined available evidence and found that this conclusion is unwarranted - the Dunlins wintering farthest to the south in NW Africa probably originate from various areas with a predictable spring (Greenland, Iceland, N. Scandinavian mountains and N. Eurasia), as would be expected from our conjecture. Icelandic breeding populations of different wader species differ widely with respect to the position of their winter quarters in relation to wintering areas of temperate and arctic populations. This suggests that the predictability of Icelandic spring differs considerably between species with different ecological requirements. The regularity and predictability of spring at different major stop-over sites may also be of importance for the segregation of winter quarters between populations from different breeding areas.
10.2307/3676177|This study investigates the relationship between date of pair formation and date of laying in the Common Eider Somateria mollissima (L.) at the Sands of Forvie, Scotland. The birds were individually marked, and many were of known age. Most pairs were formed before mid-winter (22 December); it is thought that most of these were the result of reunification with a previous partner and that they remained intact throughout the winter. Females that paired after mid-winter were mostly two and three-year-old birds, and it is thought they formed new pair-bonds. These late-paired females either did not lay or laid late rather than early in the season. However, the laying dates of females paired before mid-winter were spread right through the season, so that a long association from early pairing did not necessarily lead to early laying. It is nevertheless an advantage for females to pair early and with the previous partner, so as to maintain the pair-bond and to reduce interference to their feeding in spring. Because of male excess (unequal sex ratio), males must also be subject to selection pressure to become paired as early in the season as possible.
10.2307/3676516|In May 1990, more than 4500 km away from, and up to three weeks before arriving on their high Arctic breeding grounds, individuals of two subspecies of Knots, Calidris canutus islandica and canutus, showed ground display and song whilst foraging in flocks on the tidal flats in the Wadden Sea of Schleswig-Holstein, FRG. Similar displays and songs were recorded in May 1987 and 1988 on the staging areas of C.c. islandica in northwest Iceland. The display behaviour, identified as the 'tail-up display', is probably performed only by males towards females, and occurs commonly just after arrival at the tundra breeding sites. Tail-up displays may result in copulations both on the staging and on the breeding sites. On the staging sites, tail-up displays were most frequent in the days prior to the departure of flocks to a subsequent stopover area (Iceland) or for presumed direct flights to the Canadian and the Siberian Arctic. Our observations suggest that the behavioural condition required for reproduction may, at least in males, develop some weeks before the actual arrival in the breeding areas.
10.2307/3675885|A technique is described for attaching a radio transmitter so that its weight is borne by two rectrices without preventing the independent moulting of these feathers. Goshawks equipped in this way did not differ from hawks marked only with leg rings, either in their weight change before being retrapped or in their tendency to leave the area where they were marked.
10.2307/3676829|Here I report the results of nine field experiments with nestboxes made at Trondheim, Norway, during a three year period. By manipulating the positions of nestboxes (i.e. their attractiveness) after male settlement but before female arrival I demonstrated that female Pied Flycatchers Ficedula hypoleuca choose their mates primarily on the basis of nest site quality, not on male quality. Arriving males preferred upright nestboxes to tilted ones, but not to the extent expected from female preference. This was probably related to the fact that constraints of time and energy on the males prevented them from finding the best sites. The conclusion that male and female Pied Flycatchers do not make perfect choices of nest site is important to keep in mind when evaluating models of habitat settlement, such as the density limiting model, the density assessment model and the polygyny threshold model.
10.2307/3676089|Multiple regression technique was applied to analyse the relationship between various ecological and behavioural variables and sexual size dimorphism, among three bird groups: gamebirds, waterfowl and raptors. Several variables were found to be significantly related to sexual size dimorphism, as summarised under the three group headings below: Gamebirds: The extent of paternal investment correlates negatively with sexual size dimorphism, as does reproductive effort, but colour dimorphism is positively correlated with size dimorphism. Waterfowl: Paternal care is also negatively correlated in this group. Other significant variables were degree of nest concealment and species size, both of which correlated positively with size dimorphism. Raptors: Reproductive effort and prey size were both positively related to sexual size dimorphism, but species size showed negative correlation. The results suggest that sexual differences in size have evolved through sexual selection (in the classical sense) to reduce intersexual competition for food, to avoid predators and/or to relieve competition for nesting sites, and for bioenergetic reasons. The relative importance of these selection pressures differs in the three groups. Sexual selection seems to have been most influential among gamebirds, and relatively uninfluential among waterfowl, in which the evolution of size differences seems largely to have been influenced by the behaviour of nesting in holes. Sexual size dimorphism among raptors seems to have evolved purely as a means of relieving intersexual competition, and for bioenergetic reasons.
10.2307/3676333|The race Chersomanes albofasciata longispina is described, its type locality being two miles south of Bimbe on the Humpata Plateau, western Huila, Angola (ab. 15 00 S, 13 20 E). This race is brown above and therefore widely different from other races so far known from Angola, viz., the blackish obscurata which occurs farther north, and the very pale form known from near Moamedes. However, races more or less similar to longispina in colour are widely distributed in the Cape Province and the Transvaal. In other words, there is 'convergent' geographical variation in this lark. Hence it has been necessary to set out the differences between the new race and certain South African races in detail. The geographical variation in Chersomanes albofasciata is discussed.
10.2307/3676238|The Long-tailed Skua was studied in northern Scandinavia 1967-1969. Breeding numbers fluctuated markedly with the abundance of Lemmings, the main food. The pair often co-operated in tearing apart the prey, which was then eaten faster and more completely than by single birds. The female performed most brooding, whereas the male did most hunting and territorial defence. Predators were attacked with swoops, accompanied by two kinds of calls, one used against mammals, the other against birds. These two calls were combined and modified into a long call, used in territorial displays against other skuas. A fourth call was used in one of the three ritualized flight-types. These involved three different typical wing-beat rates. Display postures on the ground were less varied than in gulls, whereas the aerial behaviour was more elaborate, probably owing to the big territories and the open habitat.
10.2307/3676059|During the ten years from 1963 to 1972, the autumn populations of the Willow Grouse Lagopus lagopus (L.) varied according to a 3-4 year cycle in Norway. This was in synchrony with variations in the populations of small rodents. During the ten years, data on age obtained from samples of primaries of about 55,000 Willow Grouse showed that this cycle depends mainly on variations from year to year in the production of young birds.
10.2307/3675989|The paper describes a light altimeter which can be carried by individual birds. The altimeter construction is based on the fact that the range in air for -particles from a naturally radioactive -source is inversely proportional to the density or the air, and that the density of the air decreases in a regular way with the altitude above sea level. The altimeter has been used in experiments with homing pigeons and swifts, and some of the flight altitude registrations are discussed. A method to calculate the time a bird has spent in different altitude intervals is described.
10.2307/3675982|During two seasons, the size of randomly selected broods of Pied Flycatcher was modified. Enlarged as well as reduced broods were formed. A group of unmodified broods was used as a control. Nestling weights and survival rates, as well as female weight loss, were recorded. There was a discernible trend in nestling weight; reduced broods were heavier and enlarged broods were lighter than the unmodified ones, but the trend was statistically significant only during one season. However, in both seasons, there was a significant trend in nestling survival; the proportion of surviving nestlings was larger in the reduced broods and smaller in the enlarged ones compared with the unmodified broods. Due to the increased mortality, enlargement of broods did not result in a higher production of fledglings. Female weight loss during the nestling period was positively correlated to brood size in both seasons.
10.2307/3676280|Based on plumage morphology, notably the degree of plumage dimorphism which may be an important character as indication of intrageneric phylogeny, the affinities of E. morinellus are discussed in relation to two species groups in the genus Charadrius. Group I, the ringed plovers, consists of a number of eurytopic, vagile species rather different from morinellus. Group II, the red-breasted plovers, is apparently closer to morinellus than to the ringed plovers, and it is demonstrated that asiaticus and veredus are particularly close to morinellus. Zoogeographic aspects of these findings reveal that all three are stenotopic and philohiemic (a term proposed for populations conservative as regards winter quarters) and may have evolved in central Asia. The segregation between them is primarily geographical. It is concluded that there is no basis for maintaining the genus Eudromias, which must be considered synonymous with Charadrius.
10.2307/3676488|The foraging behaviour of Dunlin Calidris alpina was studied on a mudflat in eastern England. The distribution of birds was related to the different substrates present on the site. Mud samples were collected to compare the density and biomass of prey and physical properties of the sediment. The invertebrate fauna was dominated by oligochaetes, but the distribution of Dunlin on the site was not directly related to oligochaete density. Most Dunlin fed using tactile stimuli to locate prey in the softest mud. The softer mud was more easily penetrated by a Dunlin's bill, hence the prey were more accessible, so the availability of vulnerable items was greater. A few birds detected prey by sight and these concentrated their feeding in regions where the density of large polychaetes in the sediment was greatest. Patch selection for areas of higher prey accessibility and (possibly) lower foraging costs could be achieved by a simple 'rule of thumb' of selecting wet substrates.
10.2307/3676654|The apparent nutrient and energy costs of moult in Gambel's Sparrows estimated from the materials deposited in the integument are relatively mild compared with the maintenance requirements (5.3% of BMR, and 45% of the minimum maintenance requirement for protein (MMRP)) and with those of reproduction (34% BMR and 165% MMRP), except perhaps for cystine. Measures of the actual costs of moult indicate that processes in addition to plumage synthesis combine to create daily energy costs for peak moult equaling 58% BMR. These processes include (1) recrudescence of the integument, (2) a cyclic osteoporosis, and (3) a large diel cycling in body protein content (as much as 8%). The main adjustments in nutritional requirements during moult are greater needs for protein to supply substrate and for energy. Also, the needs for iron for erythrocyte production (item 1 above) and for calcium for bone formation (item 2 above) presumably increase. Analyses of several food groups reveal that the energy and essential amino acid (EAA) needs for moult can likely be met by a wide variety of food types. When the total daily EAA needs of moulting birds are taken together the profile of the EAA demands is realigned so that the disproportionately high demand for cystine for keratin synthesis is obscured. Consequently, dietary protein can be used more efficiently for whole-body protein synthesis.
10.2307/3676368|Daily field metabolic rates (FMR) during mid winter of two species of coniferous forest tits, Siberian Tit Parus cinctus and Willow Tit Parus montanus were measured with the doubly-labeled water (DLW) technique north of the Arctic circle in Sweden. The Siberian Tit is approximately 10% larger than the Willow Tit. Despite this difference in body mass no significant differences in field metabolic rates between the two species were found in our sample. Both species expended 10-20% less energy than predicted by recently derived allometric equations. Northern populations of Willow Tits had significantly higher FMR and metabolic intensities, M (<tex-math>${\rm M}={\rm FMR}/{\rm BMR}_{{\rm p}}$</tex-math>) than a more southern population. This hints at an intraspecific latitudinal cline in basal metabolic rates (BMR). The two species' predicted metabolic rate at their northern boundary in Scandinavia implies that physiological adaptations to winter conditions of both Siberian and Willow Tits have evolved further to the east within their range where they are exposed to harsher climatic conditions during winter.
10.2307/3676471|Asynchronous hatching, which is widespread among altricial species of birds, has primarily been explained as a mechanism by which the parents can adjust brood size to food availability. This brood reduction hypothesis is analysed, using data obtained from a study of five passerine bird species in Norway, 1978-1981. For each species the total number of young fledged in relation to the number of eggs laid was about 20% lower for nests in which the hatching spread was increased experimentally (to about four days), than in the control nests. This was due to an increased rate of hatching failure and to increased nestling mortality. An increase in hatching losses was very pronounced in the case of the open-nesting species. It is therefore remarkable that these birds in general hatch their eggs relatively asynchronously. Contrary to a prediction from the brood reduction hypothesis, the breeding success of the Great Tit Parus major was reduced to a greater degree in spruce-alder woodland than in rich deciduous woodland when hatching spread was experimentally increased. This was also the case with the breeding success of the Pied Flycatcher Ficedula hypoleuca.
10.2307/3676541|Radio-telemetry measurements were made of deep body temperature ( T<sub> b</sub>) in winter acclimatized Gray Jays Perisoreus canadensis held in an outdoor aviary at 6640'N, 15033'W between 3 December 1987 and 29 January 1988. The diurnal rhythm of T<sub> b</sub> was similar among the three individuals tested. Upon roosting for the night, the birds experienced a gradual drop in T<sub> b</sub> until about 0500-0700 hours. T<sub> b</sub> then levelled off until approximately 0800 when it began to rise sharply to the usual daytime level just before the birds became active. In contrast to a previous study which failed to demonstrate any appreciable nocturnal hypothermic response in a winter-acclimatized Gray Jay, the birds tested in the present study dropped their body temperature at night substantially (range: 4.5 - 6.1C) below their mean daytime temperature of approximately 42C. Moreover, the extent of the hypothermic response was correlated with the minimum overnight air temperature; on colder nights the jays tended to drop their body temperature to a greater extent. These results suggest that Gray Jays may save appreciable amounts of energy during the long, cold nights of the arctic winter as a result of their hypothermic response.
10.2307/3675984|Predation and anti-predator behaviour were studied on the Stands of Forvie, Scotland, during 1973 and 1974. The main predator on eggs of Sandwich Terns was the Black-headed Gull, on chicks the Herring Gull. In experiments with a stuffed Herring Gull, Sandwich Terns had a much lower attack-frequency than Common and Arctic Terns and Black-headed Gulls. In experiments with laid-out eggs, uncovered eggs were safe from predation when among nesting Sandwich Terns, but were heavily preyed upon when laid on the fringe of a subcolony unless they were close to a nest of a Black-headed Gull or another tern species. While the experiments provided evidence of the protection Sandwich Terns obtained by association with other terns, they did not show why Sandwich Terns should prefer nesting in colonies where Black-headed Gulls were present. The latter could be explained by the fact that Black-headed Gulls provided protection about 4 weeks earlier than Common and Arctic Terns.
10.2307/3676617|Three general hypotheses have been advanced to account for latitudinal variation in wintering ranges between the sexes in migratory birds: (1) the larger-bodied sex can endure harsher climates and therefore winters farther north, (2) behavioral dominance forces the subordinate sex to migrate farther south to avoid competition, and (3) intrasexual selection favors early arrival on breeding territories by individuals of one sex, and members of that sex winter farther north to maintain closer proximity to the breeding grounds. For many species of migratory birds, predictions of these three hypotheses are identical. I examined geographic variation in sex ratios of wintering American Kestrels Falco sparverius using Christmas Bird Count data. Female kestrels are larger and presumably more dominant than males, but they do not arrive first on the breeding grounds. Contrary to the body-size and behavioral-dominance hypotheses, male kestrels wintered slightly north of females. However, a review of data from other species with reversed sexual size dimorphism indicates that the arrival-time hypothesis cannot account for all cases of latitudinal segregation between the sexes.
27669763|Using the Emlen technique the migratory directions of spring migrating Redstarts Phoenicurus phoenicurus and Bluethroats Luscinia svecica were compared. The Redstart, representing a SW  NE migrating species, and the Bluethroat, representing a SE  NW migrating species, were supposed to have crossing migratory routes in the Gulf of Bothnia. However, Redstarts showed the same migratory direction, towards NNW-N, as Bluethroats. Possibly, the northern breeding populations of some species follow routes and directions different from those used by more southerly breeding populations of the same species. It is suggested that a migratory divide between populations arriving in spring from SW and SSE, respectively, exists in many bird species in Fennoscandia.
10.2307/3676210|The history and distribution of the Rook in Fennoscandia and European Rook censuses are briefly reviewed, and a discovery of bones of the species, dated to 1020-1050, from the city of Lund, Scania, is published. Two censuses of the Rook in Denmark, from 1909 and 1960-1963, are analyzed, and their results are evaluated with the aid of bag and field records from the island of Bornholm. Four complete censuses of the rookeries in Scania were made by the author with the following results as to nests: 11,075 in 1955-1957, 5113 in 1964-1967, 6693 in 1968, and 8271 in 1969. Rook census methods are discussed under the headings Rookery Finding, Nest Counting, and Census Time. Comparisons show that abrupt fluctuations of greater populations are known only from Nottinghamshire, England, and Scania, Sweden. In these cases there are suspicions of pesticide influence.
10.2307/3676835|Some insectivorous birds and most insectivorous bats catch their prey in flight. This puts large demands on flight manoeuvrability and agility and calls for specialized adaptations in wing design. Aerial foraging is facilitated by low body mass and low wing loading, permitting high manoeuvrability and slow flight. Birds and bats with similar ecological foraging modes (aerial-foraging in open spaces or among vegetation) show strong convergence in wing shape. Birds foraging in open areas (swifts, swallows) show similarities with open-field foraging bats, whereas birds hunting among or close to vegetation (flycatchers, Nightjar) are more like bats hawking near or within vegetation. The specific flight costs are lower (because of higher wing aspect ratios) in all the bats and in those birds that hawk insects in open areas than in birds that hawk among vegetation or that do not hawk insects in the air at all. The latter group is rather different from aerial-hawking birds and bats in wing design.
10.2307/3676746|Resting metabolic rate was measured at different ambient temperatures in Svalbard Ptarmigan, Norwegian Rock Ptarmigan and Norwegian Willow Ptarmigan at different times of the year. All three species/subspecies exhibited a significant decrease in mass-specific resting metabolism from summer to winter. At both seasons resting metabolism was higher than predicted by Aschoff and Pohl (1970), but lower than the predictions of Weathers (1979) for all three species/subspecies. The mass-specific conductance (MSC) was significantly (P < 0.05) lower, i.e. insulation was better, in winter than during summer in Svalbard Ptarmigan and Willow Ptarmigan, while Rock Parmigan did not show seasonal changes in MSC. MSC of all three species/subspecies was lower than predicted both by Herreid and Kessel (1967) and by Aschoff (1981), both in summer and in winter. MSC of Svalbard Ptarmigan was significantly lower than MSC of Rock Ptarmigan and Willow Ptarmigan, both in summer and in winter. During spring (March-May) when the Svalbard Ptarmigan is still in winter plumage, but devoid of subcutaneous fat, the MSC was the same as during summer. This indicates that the subcutaneous deposits of fat contribute significantly to the thermal insulation of these high-arctic birds during winter.
10.2307/3676448|Mate-feeding was studied at 13 nests in a colony of Lesser Kestrels Falco naumanni. Additionally, the seasonal variation in body mass of males and females was investigated throughout the breeding cycle. On average, mate-feedings (n = 783) began 54 d after the pair's first copulation and 16.5 d before the laying of the first egg, and lasted 23.7 d. Body mass of females increased from the beginning of the mate-feeding period and peaked at egg-laying. Males' body masses were less variable and tended to decrease from the mate-feeding period to the end of the breeding cycle. Our results suggest that mate-feeding is not relevant to pair formation, although it cannot be discounted that this behaviour may be important in tightening the pair-bond. The most evident function of mate-feeding in the Lesser Kestrel seems to be to increase the female's body mass, possibly to allow the laying of earlier and larger clutches. In fact, the start of the mate-feedings was correlated with laying date, and the earlier the laying, the larger the clutch.
10.2307/3676104|Adult survival rate of the Black-throated Diver Gavia arctica was calculated from 76 published long-distance recoveries of birds ringed on spring migration in the southeastern part of the Baltic and found to be 0.89, with minimum 95% confidence limits at 0.87 and 0.91. The reproductive rate necessary to maintain a stable population with this mortality is probably 0.4-0.5 fledged young per pair. This reproduction rate was compared with those observed in different field studies, the latter being markedly lower in four out of five comparisons.
10.2307/3676166|Diving ducks wintering on the coasts of Scania showed an uneven distribution that was partly caused by differences in the abundance of food and the availability of suitable resting places, partly by tradition. Differences in diving ability between species were reflected in the local distribution. The main food of the bottom-diving species was Mytilus edulis, but there was variation in additional food items amongst the different species. Calculated rates of exploitation in different parts of the study areas showed that food resources were sufficient for much larger numbers of ducks than were present.
10.2307/3676692|The paper analyses the interrelations between Turnstones and larids at Valassaaret, west coast of Finland. Turnstones are highly significantly attracted to larid colonies, but growth of the larid population can increase the number of Turnstones only to a certain degree. Turnstones react to gulls as potential predators on eggs and young, and to both gulls and terns as a source of protection from other predators. Larids pay little attention to Turnstones, even though these prey heavily upon larid eggs. There is much individual and local variation in the egg-robbing behaviour. On the most exploited islets Turnstones may destroy up to 67-100% of the nests of Larus canus and Sterna paradisaea. They also take fish brought to the tern chicks. Egg-robbing is considered learned, but the species' innate foraging behaviour (overturning objects) and the stout beak have facilitated the learning process.
27669759|We examined the relationships between flock structure and food availability, patch quality, spacing, and population size in wintering Common Cranes Grus grus. Using principal component analysis we simplify 10 flock variables to 4 major variation components which define respectively (1) dispersion pattern of the birds, (2) flock dispersal from the roost, (3) flock spacing pattern, and (4) feeding effort. We investigate the effects of number of birds, food abundance and spacing and quality of feeding patches on the principal components defined. The results indicate that an increase in patch quality correlates positively with flock size and density. A decrease in total food availability forces the birds to fly on average longer distances from the roost to forage. Independently, the same effect is observed in response to an increase in the number of birds. Flocks that fly to feed at longer distances from the roost select feeding patches of high quality, reduce the variance of their structural components, and increase their feeding intensity, probably to compensate for the long distance dispersal. We suggest that the higher unpredictability of the food location due to increased farming activity is the cause of the daily flocking enhancement in autumn and spring.
10.2307/3676295|During a warm and dry summer crops of 0-27 day-old chicks contained nearly twice as much food by dry weight as during an extremely wet and cold summer. Weather did not influence the ratio of insects and plants in the diet but greatly influenced the insect prey selection. During the warm summer chicks selectively fed on larvae (80%), while in the cold summer they fed mainly on smaller insects like Cicadinae, Aphidinae, and adult Diptera. A drop in mean ambient temperature from 19.5 to 9C and rain reduced the available feeding time for 2-5 day-old chicks by about 60%. This reduced feeding time was caused by shorter feeding periods (mean of 20.8 and 7.8 min) and longer resting periods during evening and night. Evidence is also presented that in bad weather young chicks avoid habitats with dense vegetation (which supports the best food supply) to avoid becoming wet. Extremely cold and wet weather is suggested to be critical in preventing sufficient food intake in Willow Grouse chicks.
10.2307/3676322|Moult was studied in a population of Lesser Redpolls Carduelis flammea cabaret breeding in Nottinghamshire, England during 1977-79. A modified linear regression technique for 'date on moult score' was developed to estimate adult moult commencement dates and rates of progress. About 85% of each sex normally commenced moult within separate 3-week periods, females starting 6 d later than males on average. Mean population moult durations (53-60 d in this study) were shown to be at least partially dependent on commencement dates, so that there were considerable annual variations; late breeding seasons resulted in shorter moulting periods. Latitudinal differences in moult parameters suggested by earlier authors could not be confirmed on re-analysis of their data, because of annual variations and incomplete sampling through the moult period. Some breeding birds which had commenced moulting were able to reduce energy requirements, either by slowing feather growth or by suspending their moult temporarily. Juveniles from early broods commenced their autumn moult in the second-half of July and completed by early September, moving away from the moulting areas before the adults. In 1978, many juveniles from later broods had not even commenced moult by mid-September when the study terminated. Juvenile autumn moult duration was about 6-7 weeks.
10.2307/3676005|In 1977 and 1978 respectively, 3 and 4 territorial Willow Warbler males were removed with mist-nets in a subalpine birch woodland in Ammarns, Swedish Lapland. Each year one new male established a territory in the vacated area. The surrounding males enlarged their territories slightly but not much enough to fill up all of the emptied area. In control areas no changes occurred. It is concluded that territorial behaviour of the stationary males exclude some males of the same species from establishing territories. The new males probably failed to get breeding partners and it is thereby possible that the reproductive output of the population was not affected by the exclusion of some males from breeding.
10.2307/3676404|During a study of territorial behaviour of the Pygmy Owl in NE Italy we used spectrographic analyses of recorded territorial calls to distinguish individual males. Two temporal parameters and the mean fundamental frequency of the song were selected and measured. All parameters of calls varied significantly within the population and discriminant analysis correctly classified 84.6% of the individual Pygmy Owls. Most individuals differed from each other with respect to the three selected parameters.
10.2307/3676510|We surveyed several offshore islands around Culebra for nesting Zenaida Doves and seabirds to determine if the doves preferred islands with nesting seabirds, and whether or not the doves selected the same types of sites on all islands. Doves nested on eight of the islands with seabirds, and did not nest on four islands that were devoid of nesting seabirds. Nest-site characteristics differed among the islands, although there were no inter-island differences with respect to nest size, slope at the nest, and percent of the nest visible from above and from 1 m. Thus slope and nest visibility seem to be significant habitat cues for nesting Zenaida Doves.
10.2307/3676081|The food of a Long-eared Owl population was examined in relation to the abundance of important prey during three years in an open field area in southern Sweden. About 7800 individual vertebrate prey items were identified. The prey biomass consisted mainly of field vole (80-90% during winter), water vole (15-65% during summer), birds (10-60% during summer), and wood mouse (5-25% during the year). The prey choice showed pronounced seasonal and smaller yearly changes. During winter one prey species (field vole) constituted most of the food: in summer the diet became more varied, probably due to decreased availability of field voles and increased availability of some larger prey (water voles and birds). In summer two to four prey species made up the bulk of the food. The food niche was about three times broader in summer than in winter. The total number of prey categories included in the diet was higher in winter and thus showed an opposite seasonal pattern as compared with the number of prey species forming the main food. Calculated preference indices were high for the field vole in autumn and winter, and for the wood mouse in summer, which may be explained by changed profitability to the owl of the habitats. Predictions from optimal foraging theory are discussed in relation to the field data.
10.2307/3676409|Egg laying, egg attendance by females, and egg loss were studied in the Common Eider Somateria mollissima. Clutch size fixation appeared to occur before the first egg was laid (determinate laying). Intervals between the laying of eggs were usually about 24 h. Permanent egg attendance started before clutch completion (4 to 6 eggs), usually from the second egg on, and was independent of the actual number of eggs in the nest and final clutch size. Egg loss during inattentive periods was 80 times higher than during attendance. Spontaneous breaks in incubation occurred at intervals of 1-3 days, but sometimes a female left 2 or 3 times a day. Breaks were used for drinking and lasted between a few min and 2.5 h. Females left most frequently in the first few hours after sunset. The ducklings hatched nearly synchronously except the last egg, which hatched on average 8 h later than the others. Early egg attendance, fasting during incubation, and leaves during night hours will have evolved for clutch protection.
10.2307/3676313|Reproductive traits of the Pied Flycatcher Ficedula hypoleuca were studied at three biogeographically different localities in Finland: Helsinki (60N, south boreal), Oulu (65N, mid-boreal) and Kilpisjrvi (69N, sub-arctic area, where the species is a newcomer). Clutch size decreased regularly with the date of laying, thus being smallest in the north. Average female size and weight and egg size were the same in the south and the north. Environmental variance in egg size was greater in the north, but the female component was still considerable (about 50%). Egg size correlated negatively with clutch size in the south, but the correlation changed to positive towards the north. At Kilpisjrvi female weight ("fatness") rather than size determined egg size and hatching success. The short and small eggs did not hatch well in the north, probably because (1) small eggs are laid by lightweight females, which cannot incubate for as long periods as heavier females, especially during the frequent cold spells, and (2) lightweight females lay inferior eggs, which are more sensitive to cold weather. Selection pressure for large egg size seemed strong in the north.
10.2307/3675881|Tawny Pipit nests are usually orientated towards E or N. It is suggested that this will reduce predation rates and lower temperature in the nest by giving shade during the hottest part of the day. This is supported by temperature measurements in exposed and shaded nests and by experimental exposure of nests. The unpredictability of the weather in temperate regions makes this adaptation less precise since exposed nests are probably being favoured in rainy years. Destruction of clutches in exposed nests will cause re-layings and result in a protracted breeding season.
10.2307/3676810|Breeding biology and site tenacity of the Siberian Tit were studied in northernmost Finland in moderately managed and heavily thinned forests. In moderately managed forests nesting success (82%) and number of fledglings/nest (6.6) were significantly higher than those in heavily thinned forests (58% and 5.0, respectively). Nestling starvation accounted for most of these differences, because neither hatching success nor predation pressure differed between the two types of forest. Nestlings had significantly longer wings in moderately managed forests just before fledging at the age of 15 d. Therefore also fledgling mortality is probably higher in heavily thinned areas. Clutch size was slightly higher in the heavily thinned (8.6, N = 26) than in the moderately managed area (8.0, N = 38). This difference was due to 3 d earlier commencement of egg-laying in the former area. Clutch size decreased by <tex-math>$0.12\ \text{eggs}\ {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math> with advancing laying date. Mean density of pairs was 4.2 in the moderately managed and <tex-math>$1.5\ {\rm km}^{-2}$</tex-math> in the heavily thinned area. Males, females or pairs moved on the average 430 m (N = 16, range 0-1500 m) between successive breeding seasons. Adult birds had a yearly survival rate of at least 49%. In autumn and winter they were observed within less than 500 m of their earlier breeding site thus indicating that these birds are sedentary. Of the 465 fledglings ringed in 1983-88, only one was later recorded breeding. Heavily thinned areas are suboptimal habitats for the Siberian Tit in terms of density, offspring production, nesting success and fledgling size. In the Siberian Tit, density seems to be a good measure of habitat quality. Lowered nesting success caused by heavy forest management is probably connected with the drastic decline of the Siberian Tit during the past decades.
10.2307/3676115|119 Ceryle rudis were collected in the period from January 1970 to August 1971 in Zambia near Namwala on the Kafue Flats, and their food intake analysed. The only insect eaten to an appreciable extent was Anisoptera larva, which amounted to 24.1% by number. The most important fish were Alestes spp., 16.9%; Barbus spp., 16.9%; and Ciclidae, 32.3%, by numbers. The digestive stages of the stomach contents, combined with field observations, revealed that the birds feed 4 times a day. They regurgitate the indigestible remains between each meal. The average daily food intake approximated to 18.4 grams, or 24.6% of the body weight. Two hand-reared birds had a daily food intake of 26.5% and 24% of their body weight during the last 15 days before independence. The average number of fish eaten per day per bird was 7.2, of which 44% were Ciclidae.
10.2307/3676351|The weights of waders in autumn, soon after their arrival in north-west Africa, and the subsequent changes in weight until early winter are compared with patterns known from Europe and elsewhere. Throughout the period, for most species weights, and probably levels of fat and protein, were considerably lower in north-west Africa than in Britain. Many birds arrived with extremely low weights; some, extremely emaciated, were found dead or dying. Waders with similar reductions in weight have been found dead in cold weather in temperate and arctic areas. Some weight increases probably due to fat deposition occurred in onward migrants. Apart from these, no increases in weights were observed for waders in north-west Africa in late autumn and winter, unlike those wintering in north-west Europe. In all species weights remained much lower than those of the same species wintering in Britain, where fat reserves cause mid-winter peaks in weight. It is argued that where adverse weather conditions are infrequent, and therefore the need for fat and protein reserves unlikely, there are advantages in keeping weight low by minimizing such reserves.
10.2307/3676874|The variation in egg size of Canada Geese Branta canadensis was examined in a wild and captive population in southern Alberta, Canada. Most variation (60%) in fresh egg mass and egg volume was explained by differences among females. Variance in size of eggs within a clutch accounted for about 30% of the total variance. Multiple correlation analysis revealed a positive but weak relationship (<tex-math>${\rm r}{}_{{\rm p}}{}^{2}=16\%$</tex-math>) between mean egg size and female condition. Mean egg size was not correlated with clutch size. Although egg size of captive females had high indices of repeatability, the lack of environmental variability between repeated measurements prevented estimation of the importance of genetic differences.
10.2307/3676847|Kirikov's (1944) method for determining the age of Capercaillie from skull ossification was re-examined using Scottish birds shot in October-January. For both sexes, young of the year, yearlings and adults were readily recognized. The claim that adults can be separated into further age-classes may be true for cocks but was not confirmed for Scottish hens. Freshly-shot cocks, but not hens, can be separated into young, yearlings and adults from measurements of beak depth and head width, without the need to prepare skulls.
10.2307/3676885|Experimentally changed clutch size did not affect hatching success in Blue Tits whereas the incubation period was longer for larger clutches.
10.2307/3676607|Several Central European populations of tetraonids are threatened with extinction. Adaptations to survive periods of heavy hoarfrost evolved in tetranoids prior to the destruction of habitat by pollution and other anthropogenic factors. The following paper discusses the direct and indirect implications of hoarfrost in the extinction process.
10.2307/3676916|Habitat, spacing pattern and survival of Capercaillie Tetrao urogallus were studied in southeast Norway during the winters 1981-87 using 65 radio-marked birds. Adult males (3.5 yr) preferred old, pine-dominated forests close to their lekking grounds. Subadult males (0.5, 1.5, 2.5 yr) and females (>0.5 yr) were distributed more independently of leks and utilized middle-aged (>7 m) pine plantations besides older, natural forest. Spruce-dominated forests and younger plantations were avoided by all sex/age groups. Home range size of subadult males (98.4 ha) was significantly larger than that of adults (63.5 ha) which was significantly larger than that of females (26.8 ha). During late winter (1 Mar - 15 Apr), adult males concentrated within 400 m of leks, subadult males occupied the peripheral zone between 400 and 800 m of leks, and most females stayed further than 800 m away from leks. When leks were only attended by subadult males, such males concentrated within 400 m of lek centres, thus further suggesting that adult males exclude subadults from the vicinity of leks in late winter. Hens retreated to interlek regions with low male density, possibly to avoid male courting interference. Males in highly fragmented habitats stayed farther away from their lekking grounds than males in less fragmented areas during midwinter. Birds living in highly fragmented habitats had larger home ranges and lower survival than other birds.
10.2307/3676659|In laying hens, the primary sources of progesterone ( P<sub>4</sub>) are the granulosa cells of the 4-5 largest follicles in the hierarchy of the ovary. During forced moulting, cessation of egg production occurs with ovarian atrophy and a decrease in P<sub>4</sub> as well as in luteinizing hormone. While it is reported that follicular atresia as well as the P<sub>4</sub> decrease are the result of a reduced luteinizing hormone (LH) stimulation, P<sub>4</sub> decrease occurred already during the second or third day after food withdrawal while atresia occurred only several days later. Since P<sub>4</sub> decrease at the beginning of moult induction cannot simply be explained by the lack of large follicles the aim of this study was to determine whether the rapid decrease in P<sub>4</sub> after food withdrawal is only related to a decreased hypophyseal stimulus and/or a concomitant change in follicular sensitivity as well. Granulosa cells from follicles F<sub>1</sub> to F<sub>4</sub> were collected according to the method of Gilbert et al. (1977). Cell number was estimated with a haemocytometer and viability by trypan blue exclusion technique. Cell suspension was diluted to <tex-math>$10^{5}\ \text{cells}\ {\rm ml}^{-1}$</tex-math> in M199 and incubated for 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8 and 24 h with or without oLH, and P<sub>4</sub> secretion in the medium was assayed by RIA. Short-term starvation increased P<sub>4</sub> response in vitro to oLH indicating a higher sensitivity of granulosa cells of follicles from all classes to oLH. In an additional experiment, in vivo injections of different doses of LH also showed an enhanced increase in P<sub>4</sub> the first days of food restriction. Therefore, the rapid decrease in P<sub>4</sub> after feed withdrawal is not due to a decreased follicular sensitivity but to a decrease in stimulatory factor(s).
10.2307/3676598|In the north-east Black Forest, 37 young Capercaillie reared in captivity were radio-tagged and released in August/September in 1984-1989. A high mortality of 95% was caused by fox, marten, Goshawk and accidents. In the first two weeks after release, 57% died and only two cocks survived the first winter. Released hens moved further than cocks. In the first spring, one cock visited several neighbouring lek sites, including some which had been abandoned for a long time. Habitat selection by released Capercaillie was similar to that of wild birds in the area. Open mixed pine forests, rich in bilberry, were preferred as well as edges and mixed-aged stands.
10.2307/3676279|Measurements of body parts and colour reflection in 1260 birds from northwestern Europe have previously been statistically treated by the author. A brief survey of the results is given here. The pale British Larus argentatus argenteus should be recognized as a valid subspecies representing the most distinct form of all Herring Gulls. The marked differences between this subspecies and the nominate argentatus are supported by the timing of the moult of the primaries. The Fennoscandian Herring Gulls form continuous clines in a series of taxonomic parameters representing the nominate L. argentatus argentatus, of which L. argentatus omissus is purely a synonym. Larus fuscus intermedius is a well-marked subspecies, in its typical form inhabiting southern Norway and western Sweden. The nominate and darkest form, L. fuscus fuscus, inhabits northern Norway and the Baltic. New data on the moulting of primaries support previously found differences between these two subspecies.
10.2307/3676305|Dialects both on a local and a continental scale are found in the Yellowhammer Emberiza citrinella. Various aspects of dialect distribution in an overlap area in Denmark are described. Males were closer to each other than expected from a random distribution, probably due to habitat patchiness. Distances to similar dialect males were shorter than to dissimilar ones. Among two dialect groups nearest neighbours did more often sing similar than dissimilar songs. Territories were often changed between years, and habitat preferences within a dialect group of Yellowhammers could not be found. Some song post characteristics (height, fraction of birds at a maximum height) differed between dialects. Yellowhammers with different dialects used different nest sites, even if sites were chosen by females. These differences may be brought about by kin association.
10.2307/3676311|During cold and wet summers 0-8 d old chicks from small (2-6 chicks) Willow Grouse Lagopus lagopus lagopus broods grew faster and survived better than chicks from large broods (8-14 chicks). Chicks from large broods spent longer time being brooded by the hen and had consequently shorter time available for feeding than chicks from small broods. These results agree with the finding that cold and wet weather prevents sufficient food intake in Willow Grouse chicks.
10.2307/3676212|The influence of a spraying with DDT over Whitethroat territories was studied in South Sweden. Atmospheric fall-out, vegetation, insects and Whitethroat young were sampled and analysed for chlorinated hydrocarbons. The stomach contents of 46 Whitethroat young were examined. Samples of vegetation, insects and Whitethroat young from sprayed territories had significantly higher concentrations of  DDT compared with unsprayed territories. The proportion of metabolites in samples from unsprayed territories and territories sprayed with 0.2 1 DDT/ha was higher than in territories sprayed with 2.0 1 DDT/ha. The total concentration of DDT was always higher in breast muscles than in brain tissues of the same bird. Starved young had higher levels of  DDT in both breast muscles and brain tissues than unstarved young.
10.2307/3676727|The interspecific territorial relationships of Acrocephalus warblers in Europe are reviewed and compared with those of marsh-inhabiting species in North America. In each pair of species, one arrives on the marsh early, establishes territories, is interspecifically aggressive, and eventually loses habitat space to the later arriving species. The second species arrives later, is less or not at all interspecifically aggressive, has smaller territories or no territories or is larger in size, and usurps habitat already occupied by the earlier arriving species. I interpret the non-agressiveness and the smaller territories of late arriving species to be adaptations that permit them to occupy territories in habitat already occupied by an aggressive, territorial species. The larger size of two late arriving species may be adaptations or, more likely, preadaptations, permitting them to establish territories in already occupied habitat. Interspecific aggression of the early arriving species in these cases seems to be a non-adaptive consequence of the two species possessing features that stimulate intraspecific aggression.
10.2307/3676690|The proportion of birds showing distraction display changed considerably between years, increasing gradually from 1979 to 1982, and decreasing from 1982 to 1983. The pattern was similar in both sexes. Neither the proportion nor the intensity of distraction display shown by parents during the first three weeks after hatching showed any significant variation with the age of their chicks. The proportion of distraction display shown by cocks was positively correlated with the number of pairs km<sup>-2</sup>. No correlation was found between the proportion of distraction display and age distribution, physical condition, and phenological development, for either hens or cocks. Although no significant correlation was found between chick production and the proportion of distraction display for the whole population, mean brood size was significantly larger where parents showed distraction display than where they did not. The proportion of broods accompanied by both parents varied insignificantly between 74% in 1982 and 89% in 1980. Broods accompanied by both parents were larger than broods accompanied by lone hens, though not significantly so. From 1979 to 1982, the proportion of cases where both parents in a pair showed identical distraction behaviour gradually decreased from 86 to 60%, and then increased to 70% in 1983. When there was discrepancy in the intensity of distraction display within pairs, hens more often gave the stronger display.
10.2307/3676664|Various passerines enhance their cold resistance in winter through a form of metabolic acclimatization. This involves an improved ability to sustain elevated rates of regulatory thermogenesis, primarily through shivering. This muscular activity depends principally on catabolism of fatty acids. Significantly, establishment and daily replenishment of substantial fat reserves are associated with winter acclimatization in many passerines. This acclimatization also appears linked with winter increases in the activities of certain catabolic enzymes in skeletal muscle, notably -hydroxyacyl Co-A dehydrogenase and phosphofructokinase. The factors that initiate and regulate winter acclimatization in passerines are poorly understood. The metabolic character of this form of adjustment, which certainly involves processes affecting deposition, mobilization, and use of energy substrates assures that an array of hormones will be involved. We review several possible candidates, emphasizing glucagon, corticosterone, and the thyroid hormones. Recent studies indicate seasonal variation in levels of thyroid hormones, but not of corticosterone in free-living individuals of the American Goldfinch Carduelis tristis, a prominent species in studies of passerine winter acclimatization.
10.2307/3675919|Certain factors which appear to be decisive in habitat selection by breeding Thrush Nightingales are set out. This species favours deciduous coppices which are usually low and shady. Some dense thickets providing good shelter are always present in the territories. A proportion of bare ground without field vegatation is also important because the species feeds mostly on the ground. The small coppices where territories are established occur in open environments, near water or fields; this improves the audibility of the birds song. The position of the Thrush Nightingale in the bird community is also presented. It belongs to the guild of ground feeders, but unilke most other species of this guild is strongly adapted for foraging inside woodlands. On the other hand, it is also partly able to utilize other zones of vegatation. It can sometimes forage in field vegetation, on branches and boughs of trees, or even in the air. Its main diet consists of insects, mostly Lepidopteran larvae. In terms of habitat requirements and morphological similarities, the Thrush Nightingale has only two potential competitors, the Robin Erithacus rubecula L. and the Redwing Turdus iliacus L. However, the competition between these species seems usually to be weak. The effect of man on habitats is presumably the most important reason for population fluctuations of the Thrush Nightingale in Finland.
10.2307/3675891|The nesting of the Canada Goose and the Greylag Goose was studied in some archipelagoes in the Straits of Kalmar. Compared with the Greylag Goose, the Canada Goose nests in more open terrain, claims a larger territory, and shows a more pronounced territorialism. Most attacks were intraspecific but the Canada Geese often attacked Greylag Geese as well, although they tolerated these at closer distance than conspecifics. In some instances Canada Geese seemed to prevent Greylag Geese from nesting within their territories, but on the whole it is possible for the Greylag Goose to breed successfully with the larger and stronger Canada Goose. Both species have shown a numerical increase in the investigated area.
10.2307/3676844|Four mate guarding variables (start of guarding, end of guarding, length of the guarding period, intensity of guarding) were studied in 51 nesting cycles of Swallows Hirundo rustica. Mate guarding was affected by attributes of the male (high body weight and old age leading to guarding ending late) and by external social factors (colonial Swallows starting to guard early, for a long time, at a high rate, but ending earlier than solitary males; less male biased operational sex ratio leading to a low guarding intensity; males starting to guard late in the nesting cycle did so for a short period and at a low guarding intensity, and their female mates experienced more extra-pair copulations than those of other males). Mate guarding may be costly to males, and accordingly those Swallows starting to guard with a high body weight were able to end their guarding period later than other males. Guarding males may incur an opportunity cost by guarding rather than engaging in extra-pair copulations. Male Swallows experiencing less male biased operational sex ratios during their guarding period finished mate guarding earlier than other males.
10.2307/3676141|Observations made on the Varangerfjord, N. E. Norway, during 1974 indicate that there is a large Dunlin passage through the area. Ringing recoveries suggest that juveniles which pass through the area during August move down the west coast of Norway, whilst adults, moving through during July, take a more easterly route, moving overland to the Gulf of Bothnia and into the Baltic.
10.2307/3676861|Niche relationships of three sympatric Strix owl species in Finland were studied with respect to four environmental parameters: activity, food, breeding habitat and nest-site. The niches of Ural and Tawny Owls have the highest mutual overlap indicating possible interspecific competition, which may cause the patchy occurrence of the Tawny Owl in southern Finland. The Ural Owl has the widest niche, that of Tawny Owl is 73% and that of Great Grey Owl only 48% of the niche of the first-mentioned species. The Great Grey Owl is a r-strategist, which has adapted to the vole cycles in the northern taiga zone by being nomadic, opportunistically selecting its breeding habitats, using commonly available nest-sites, being a vole specialist, laying large clutches and being active during day and night. The Tawny Owl again is adapted to the more stable, southern environment, since it breeds in productive habitats, is a food generalist, as a resident species defends its nest-hole, is nocturnal and a K-strategist. Considering distribution, breeding habitat and daily activity, the Ural Owl is intermediate, but because of its large size it is capable of being a food generalist, resident and a K-strategist. Thus, the life-history traits of the three owl species agree relatively well with the correlates of r-and K-selection, apart from the large size of the Great Grey Owl. This may be an adaptation to the capturing of voles below the deep snow and to the hard wintering and breeding conditions.
10.2307/3676619|Insectivorous passerines were trapped during autumn and spring migration in an <tex-math>$0.02\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> Sinai desert oasis 300 km south and 2000 km north of the northern and the southern edges of the birds' cross-desert route. Mean number of recaptures and mean number of days between first and last captures were used for estimating the lengths of common species' stopover periods and the size of their stopping-over populations, assuming a constant probability of staying an additional day and a constant daily probability of capture. Ca 80% of the birds were captured only once, and probably stayed one day. Species' mean observed and estimated stopovers ranged from 1 to 5 d and 1.5 to 13.6 d, respectively. More birds stopped-over, and stopovers were on the average longer, (a) in autumn than in spring, (b) in early than in late autumn, (c) in late than in early spring, (d) in species and seasons with large stopping-over populations, (e) in females than in males (in two species with sexual dimorphism) in spring, and (f) in species encountering the oasis early on their autumn route than in species reaching it late. We propose that numbers alighting and stopover lengths depend on when and where an oasis is encountered. Birds tend to overfly oases or to stop for only one day either when the oasis is close to the point of migration initiation or when it is advantageous to reach breeding territories fast.
10.2307/3676711|The allocation of mammals, lizards, and insects captured by a nesting Great Grey Shrike and a nesting Kestrel hunting in the same clear-cut was recorded. Both predators carried most mammals (large prey) to the nest, and consumed all insects (small prey) at the capture site. The small predator (Great Grey Shrike) carried most lizards (medium-sized prey) to the nest, whereas the large predator (Kestrel) consumed most lizards at the capture site, although the distance from lizard capture sites to the nest did not differ between the two predators. If the allocation pattern found applies in general, traditional nest-based food analyses overstimate the proportion of lizards in the overall diet of the Great Grey Shrike and underestimate it in the Kestrel.
10.2307/3676571|The seasonal changes in body composition of Rock Ptarmigan from northern Norway were examined. Body composition remained essentially stable throughout the year, but apparent changes related to the digestive system took place. The caeca increased in weight from 22 g in September to 48 g in March. The amount of dissectible body fat was negligible throughout the year. Our data indicate that, unlike the Svalbard Ptarmigan, the Norwegian Rock Ptarmigan is not adapted to withstand prolonged periods of starvation at any time of the year.
10.2307/3676225|The synchronous fledging of young Guillemots Uria spp. has been considered an adaptation to reduce predation. The timing of 326 fledgings and of 73 predation attempts was recorded at Bear Island. The actual predation rate is low (0.6-2.2 per cent) when fledglings drop directly onto the sea. It is substantially increased (17.5 per cent) when access to the sea is hampered by difficult terrain. Synchronous fledging at colonies with difficult terrain. does reduce predation by overwhelming predators with the numbers of the young.
10.2307/3676806|Annual variations in the total nitrogen content of Red Grouse faeces in spring reflected variations in the growth and N content of their main food, ling heather Calluna vulgaris. The N metabolism of birds eating low-protein, high-polyphenol diets such as heather is poorly understood. This was described by analysing the N in faeces into six chemical fractions. Variation in these fractions was partitioned statistically into principal components on the working assumption that each component reflected a distinct metabolic process. Annual variations in the first principal component were related to the amount of overwinter dieback in the heather but not to the heather's total N content or growth. Variations in the second were closely related to the total N content and growth of heather but not to overwinter dieback. Protein appeared to be in short supply in the birds' diet. However, annual variations in the first principal component of faecal N occurred independently of the total N contents of food and faeces. Therefore the total N content of the birds' diet probably did not reflect its nutritive value and total faecal N was probably not a reliable index of dietary quality. No measured aspect of N metabolism was related to the birds' breeding success.
10.2307/3676649|The present study investigates territorial behaviour in response to a simulated intrusion into the territory, and plasma levels of reproductive hormones of both sexes of migratory European Robins Erithacus rubecula in the wintering and the breeding area. Males and females aggressively defended individual territories and sang in the wintering area. In the breeding area only males defended territories and sang. Males defending winter territories had low, while males defending breeding territories had elevated levels of luteinizing hormone (LH) and testosterone (T). This suggests that male territorial behaviour including singing in the wintering area occurs without elevated levels of T. In contrast, some females defending winter territories had elevated, while females on breeding territories had low T levels. Female LH and estradiol ( E<sub>2</sub>) levels were low in winter and elevated in spring. These profiles suggest that female winter territorial aggression and/or singing are facilitated by T. It is concluded that male and female migratory Robins have evolved different mechanisms for the control of their territorial behaviour in the wintering area compared to the breeding area.
10.2307/3676425|I examined the effects of shrub density on the distribution and abundance of Black-throated Blue Warblers Dendroica caerulescens within a northern hardwood forest in New Hampshire, U.S.A. I found different responses to shrub density at two different spatial scales (plot and territory). At the scale of 15 ha study plots, the number of breeding birds on seven plots was positively related to shrub density, suggesting that areas having a high density of shrubs were selected by the birds. Selection of shrubs was further supported by an experiment in which the density of Black-throated Blue Warblers declined to zero in the three years after leaves were removed from shrubs on a 14 ha plot. In contrast to the plot scale results, the territory scale analysis demonstrated that shrub density was not greater inside than outside territories in any of 11 analyses (five plots, each studied for two or three years). Thus, within plots, territories were not located in areas where shrub density was high. No other vegetation variable consistently differed between inside and outside of territories within plots. The plot scale analyses provide an example of how the vertical structure of a habitat can affect the distribution of bird species. The conflicting results at the two scales point out the importance of considering several scales in studies of distribution and abundance, but they also raise the question of why a bird would preferentially select plots with dense shrubs and then not locate its territory so that shrub density is maximized. I argue that all territories on plots where average shrub density is above a threshold level will contain enough small dense patches of shrubs for the birds, especially if these patches are important for nesting rather than for foraging. If this argument is valid, then habitat selection at the scale of the territory may not be necessary for Black-throated Blue Warblers.
10.2307/3675923|The numbers of Guillemots on selected cliff ledges of the island of Copinsay, Scotland, were counted four times a day both before egg-laying and at around the time of hatching. Counts of arrivals and departures and behavioural observations were also made at a small study colony. Early season counts showed great variation, the major factors responsible being the time of day, the state of the tide, wind speed and disturbance by gulls. Numbers were more constant later in the season, although they still varied with time of day and there was also some evidence that wind speed and precipitation affected them. There was an upward trend in numbers during this time; behavioural observations suggested that this was due to greater attendance by birds with chicks.
10.2307/3676241|The length of wing, bill, and tarsus of a Dipper population wintering in the province of Smland, southern Sweden, was investigated. Wing length proved to be statistically different between sexes. About 99% of all Dippers can be sexed in this way; no breeding pairs have hitherto been found in which the two sexes could not be significantly separated by this characteristic. Length of bill and tarsus also differed between sexes although the overlap was considerable.
10.2307/3676794|The mating system of Kentish Plovers was studied in Hungary in 1988-91. Pairs renested together after clutch failure on 11 occasions. In addition, two males and one female changed mates (sequential polygyny and polyandry) between clutches. Biparental care lasted 5.95.9 (s.d.) d (n = 20) from hatching to desertion, usually by the female. The duration of biparental care was not related to the sex of the deserting parent, but male-deserted broods hatched earlier than female-deserted ones. In 5 out of 11 cases when pairs renested together, they moved between breeding sites (11.85.8 (s.d.) km), as did all three birds who changed mates (10, 24 and 24 km). These recorded distances suggest that the low reported frequency of mate change may be more a reflection of the high level of breeding dispersal than of the rarity of mate change.
10.2307/3676883|During the prelaying season Common Uria aalge and Brunnich's Guillemot U. lomvia off Finnmark, northern Norway fed exclusively on capelin Mallotus villosus. In mixed flocks Common Guillemots took smaller fish than Brunnich's Guillemots. In the absence of Common Guillemots, Brunnich's Guillemots fed on a wider size spectrum and also included the small fish otherwise eaten by Common Guillemots. A comparison of the size distribution of fish eaten and those caught in trawl net samples suggested that Common Guillemots fed mainly on maturing female capelin in the upper water masses, whereas Brunnich's Guillemots dove deeper and fed on mature and spent male and female capelin caught near the bottom.
10.2307/3676656|Data from a long-term field study show that adult White-crowned Sparrows were often engaged simultaneously in parental care and in postnuptial molt indicating that these functions were not prohibited from overlapping by energetic constraints and that there is strong selection for molt not to be delayed unduly. There was no constant phase relationship between stage of reproduction and initiation of molt. In this sense, the two functions appeared to be scheduled and regulated separately. The seasonal schedules for onset of gonadal refractoriness and of postnuptial molt were nearly identical, however, and all indications are that molt began in individuals right after refractoriness. This raises the distinct possibility that one mechanism or set of hormonal conditions could be inducing both events simultaneously.
10.2307/3676918|In a southern Spanish marsh Little Egrets and Black-tailed Godwits were attacked by kleptoparasitic Black-headed Gulls. Compared with godwits, egrets were less likely to drop their prey to gulls. The only evasive feeding tactic seen was deployed by godwits, and consisted of handling prey under water when kleptoparasitic gulls were present, thus reducing risks of food loss to them.
10.2307/3676900|The relative direction of crossing of the upper mandible with respect to the lower was recorded in 383 Crossbills and 322 Two-barred Crossbills collected in Canada. There was no significant difference between the occurrence of right-billed and left-billed Crossbills, but a highly significant excess of left-billed Two-barred Crossbills existed. In both species, the direction of bill crossing was independent of sex, age, and geographic locale. It is suggested that these ratios may be related to those of two distinct seed cone morphologies described in several coniferous tree species.
10.2307/3676111|Nocturnal passerine migration in S Sweden was studied by radar filming and ceilometer observations during seven weeks in the autumns of 1971 and 1972. Five mass movements occurred, during which the vast majority of all birds involved passed through the area monitored. The weather situation accompanying these events was characterized by NW or NE winds after a cold front passage. Tracks were SSE/SE with NW winds and SW/SSW with NE winds. Movements towards SW/SSW comprised the largest numbers of echoes. Origin and goals of the birds and their reaction to wind, in particular, are discussed.
10.2307/3676850|A population of Starlings in New Zealand has been starting to breed about one day later on average each year for the past 17 years. Individual birds and first-year breeders show the same pattern, so changes in population structure are not responsible. Neighbouring populations behave normally, ruling out climatic factors, and the habitat and food supply appear unchanged. Can anyone suggest an explanation?
10.2307/3676760|Samples of breast feathers of Golden Plovers were collected from live birds captured in spring and autumn staging areas in The Netherlands. Three types of feathers were distinguished: winter and summer feathers, and a peculiar type, called the striped feather. Striped feathers were not found in spring, but made up about 20% of the feathers in samples collected in autumn. Examination of skins of birds collected on the breeding grounds showed that striped feathers develop on the breast and belly of Golden Plovers around the last week of incubation. After arrival in The Netherlands, striped as well as summer feathers are replaced by winter feathers (post-breeding moult). The moult, on the breeding grounds, of part of the ventral summer plumage to special (short-lasting) striped feathers is named the partial breeding moult, and appears hitherto undescribed in other birds. The appearance of striped feathers makes the summer plumage of Golden Plovers less contrasting. This leads us to propose that the balance between selection for a distinctive plumage and for camouflage changes in the course of the season and has thus lead to the evolution of this peculiar moult.
10.2307/3676600|During 1984-87, nesting habitats of 72 radio-marked Black Grouse Tetrao tetrix were studied at Boda in central Sweden. There was a marked preference to place nests in younger stands (trees 0.5-3.0 m) compared to mature and maturing forests. Egg predation was significantly lower in the preferred stands than in stands with trees > 3.0 m. We found no difference in selection of nesting habitat between older birds and yearlings, despite a large age-related difference in breeding success earlier reported for the hens in this study. Total cover at nest sites varied considerably, but we found no relationship between cover and egg predation.
10.2307/3676559|A study of the Kerguelen Tern, a species restricted to three groups of islands in the southern Indian ocean, was carried out in the Crozet archipelago. Kerguelen Terns foraged for small fish throughout the year, mostly in breakers. During breeding, significant numbers of terrestrial arthropods were also eaten from around the nest. The date of laying of the single egg varied between years, apparently in connection with wind conditions. In a delayed breeding season, only the early breeders fledged their chick. The failure of late breeders is thought to result from competition with the sympatric Antarctic Tern Sterna vittata, which normally has a later breeding schedule than the Kerguelen Tern. A comparison of clutch sizes and laying dates among Antarctic Terns from different localities suggests that a clutch size of one egg for both Antarctic and Kerguelen Terns on Crozet may result from the coexistence of these two closely related species.
10.2307/3676522|Age composition of breeding Tengmalm's Owls in relation to population fluctuations of voles and age-related breeding performance were studied in 1981-86 in western Finland. Three age classes were identified: first-year, second-year, and older owls. The most common age class of females was 1-year-old and that of males was 2-year-old. A larger proportion of females than males bred as yearlings, possibly because the breeding success of a pair is largely dependent on the male's ability to provide food. First-year breeders were most frequent in peak years, when many immigrant young owls entered the breeding population. Yearling-yearling pairs performed less well in their breeding attempts than did pairs of 2-year-old mates, which in turn did less well than did older pairs. The nests of first-year males had smaller prey stores than those of second-year males, which in turn had smaller stores than nests of older males. A lack of experience and shortage of food, rather than "saving themselves for later life", seemed to cause poor performance of yearlings.
10.2307/3676170|Information from the European ringing schemes is used to establish the general migration pattern of the Grey Wagtail Motacilla cinerea in Europe. A number of recoveries are extracted for life-table analysis and the results compared with information on reproduction. Based on the reproduction data the life-table is adjusted to a model for a stable population, where total population turn-over is estimated to approx. 3 and 4 years in the Danish and British population respectively. From the British population index the rate of increase (r) is calculated to 0.173. The value of r and the model for a stable population is used in a discussion of the possible events during the repopulation of former breeding places following the severe winter mortality in 1962-63. Finally it is suggested that more attention should be drawn to the ecological significance (sensu 'biotic potential') of r obtained under conditions of natural population increase than to the theoretical r<sub> max</sub> value, which is rarely ever encountered under field conditions.
10.2307/3676413|The post-fledging movements of young birds are poorly understood and difficult to study. Relatively little attention has been paid to the exploration-like elements of post-fledging movements. Thus, young birds visit and perhaps revisit a number of sites and collect sufficient navigational information to allow them to return, often months later, to at least some of these sites. My aim in this paper is twofold: (1) to consider some of the potential functions of post-fledging exploration and the characteristics that each may impart to the behaviour; and (2) to suggest analytical techniques by which researchers with access to suitable ringing returns may use their data to investigate the behaviour. In part, post-fledging exploration appears to be aimed at the location of areas suitable for breeding (the following summer) and, where appropriate, for overwintering. However, a pilot study of three species of passerines ringed in Britain suggests that longer post-fledging journeys do not necessarily translate into the adoption of more-distant breeding sites. Instead, the distance and direction of post-fledging exploration is a function of the furthest distance a bird is ever likely to travel from its birth site. Taken together, these data support a "navigational target" hypothesis. The size and orientation of this target may be optimal for the risk of navigational error to which each species is exposed. The larger targets may be elongated along a N-S axis and birds may bias the direction of their first spring return migration to one side (E-W) of the target.
10.2307/3676604|Black Grouse in Finland have been fed with oats in winter since the late 1960s. Winter feeding sites provide an opportunity to test the importance of winter nutrition in the wild. The weights (adjusted for wing length) of captured yearling hens were significantly lower than those of adult hens, but there was no evidence of any increase in weight associated with the extra food. Preliminary data on radio-tagged hens show no correlation between their winter weight and some parameters of breeding success.
10.2307/3676737|The autumn migration speed of 62 passerine species was estimated on the basis of short-time Swedish ringing recoveries (n = 2212). The average migration speed was lowest among short-distance migrants (<tex-math>$\text{mean}=28\ {\rm km}\ {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math>) and highest among long-distance migrants (<tex-math>$\text{mean}=60\ {\rm km}\ {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math>). The maximum individual speed exceeded <tex-math>$100\ {\rm km}\ {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math> in several species. For many species the migration speed increased along the route and late migrants also seemed to attain a higher speed than early conspecifics. In some cases adult birds migrated significantly faster than juveniles. Recoveries made 1-3 days after ringing were used for estimating the length of migratory flights. The average flight length among nocturnal migrants (177 km) was significantly longer than that of diurnal migrants (111 km). Most flights made by nocturnal migrants lasted for less than half the dark period. Such relatively short flights made during the first part of migration may relate to the slow initial migration speed found in many species.
10.2307/3676505|In Common Eiders, females other than the mother often protect young from predators. This study was designed to determine if failed nesters and females which loose their young shortly after hatching (brood abandoners) participate in such rearing activities. Brood caring females always reacted aggressively towards approaching gulls and stayed close to the young during disturbance. The behaviour of failed nesters and brood abandoners towards broods and crches was similar. Their crche attendance was highly temporal and independent of the time since they had lost their eggs or hatched their young. They usually left the crches at the slightest disturbance, and during gull attacks failed nesters showed no reaction while a few brood abandoners tending crches reacted aggressively. Most of the crche attendance in nest-failing and brood abandoning females is presumably motivated by selfish interest, e.g. seeking safety from predators or kleptoparasites. The so-called "visiting" females or "aunts" in Eider crches should be divided in two categories: broody females showing protective behaviour and females temporarily attending crches and showing no broodiness. Failed nesters and most of the brood abandoners belong to the latter category. Most of the females showing protective behaviour probably belong to the non-breeding cohort (young and/or non-breeding birds).
10.2307/3675875|Young Oystercatchers without experience with the adult bird and food were used in model tests. Since under natural conditions the adult presents food to the young in or beneath the tip of the red bill, a disposition of the young to peck at objects of the bill colour, similarly as in Larids, could be expected. However, the young in general showed no preference for any of the colours red, yellow, green and blue; only black had a relatively low score. It was found that "inexperienced" young respond to unspecific sounds and oblong objects in a vertical position and are disposed to peck at the lower part of such objects and especially at contrasting spots near this part. These initial responses, combined with the ability of learning the characteristics of edible objects very fast, are sufficient for the development of specific responses in parental feeding.
10.2307/3676449|The anti-predator behaviour of night-feeding Dunlins Calidris alpina was studied on a tidal flat in the Danish Wadden Sea. The observations indicated that Dunlins at night depress vocalization compared with day-feeding birds. Moreover, when Dunlins were approached by a raptor during day-time almost all took flight. In contrast, when Dunlins were disturbed at night only about 60% took flight, while most of the remaining birds froze. It is suggested that depressed vocalization and freezing at night are means to escape detection by owls. How the behavioural dichotomy (freezing and escape) during nocturnal disturbance is accomplished and how it affects the spacing behaviour of night-feeding Dunlins are discussed.
10.2307/3676320|The song of the Thrush Nightingale recorded from different distances in open, semiopen and closed habitats both in calm and windy weather was subjected to sonagraphic analysis. Some play-back experiments with normal, degraded and manipulated songs were made. The song of the Thrush Nightingale has two striking characteristics: the loudness of the song and the wideness of the frequency range used. The loudness of the song becomes apparent in the "castanet like" phrases and the wideness of the frequency range in the "rattling" phrase. Both of these phrases carry species-specific information. The song transmitted in a closed habitat, a dense deciduous forest, was degraded by attenuation. In windy weather the song transmitted in an open habitat attenuated more than in calm weather. The most degradeable elements in the song are the high-pitched elements and the elements with a wide frequency range. In the play-back experiments the birds responded stronger to the songs recorded from short distance than to the more degraded songs which were recorded from longer distance.
10.2307/3676524|A parent bird feeding its young often has the potential to increase its effort depending on how much the other parent is prepared to work. For life-history reasons such as reduced confidence in paternity and higher mating success with age (Houston and Davies 1985), we could expect Pied Flycatcher males to be prepared to work less than females in feeding young. We tested this idea by measuring the feeding rates of males and females in monogamous pairs; and also by a removal experiment, to see how much more single parents were prepared to work than members of a pair. Unaided males or females raised fewer young, which were also of lower fledging weight, than did pairs. Single males increased their feeding efforts as much as single females, and in monogamous pairs both sexes had similar feeding rates, thus contradicting our expectation. The model of Houston and Davies (1985) assumes that increasing effort affects adult mortality only after the independence of the young. In reality, adults might die before that time, and then the joint interest of both parents in staying alive at least until the independence of young, may have led to the stable "agreement" of Pied Flycatcher mates in contributing equally to the feeding af nestlings.
10.2307/3676830|A Sand Martin colony in the subalpine (subarctic) birch belt at Ammarns, Swedish Lapland (65N, 590 m a.s.l.), was studied from 1968 through 1985 (excl. 1970-1971). Colony size varied between 8 (1985) and 80 (1975) pairs, and the colony was deserted completely during egg-laying in 1979. Start of egg-laying varied from 3 June (1984) to 28 June (1982), and most often took place between 10 and 20 June. The start of laying was closely correlated with the date when 50% of the ground was snow-free. This date was about one month before start of egg-laying and before arrival of the Sand Martins. There was a much weaker correlation between start of egg-laying and temperature in late May and early June, indicating that the length of the snow-free period before arrival was more important. Temperature after arrival, however, modified the effects of the general advancement of spring. There was a critical temperature range (mean temperature of 5-7C or maximum temperature of 10-12C) below which temperatures deterred onset of laying. A temperature below this range after some pairs had started laying deterred new pairs from starting. Abundance of flying insects rather than temperature as such is likely to be the critical factor determining the start of laying, but there are no data on insect abundance during the early stages of breeding. The seasonal decline of clutch size was <tex-math>$0.2\ \text{eggs}\ {\rm wk}^{-1}$</tex-math> within years, but less between years with different median dates of laying.
10.2307/3676676|This paper documents the daily activities and feeding rates of Barnacle Geese Branta leucopsis through the autumn and winter in relation to changes in biomass of their food supply. Energy intake and expenditure were estimated and energy surplus or deficit for each month calculated. A net surplus was achieved in the months of October (<tex-math>$+235\ {\rm kJ}\ {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math>) and November (<tex-math>$+247\ {\rm kJ}\ {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math>) when most food was available. Geese suffered a net deficit in December (<tex-math>$-225\ {\rm kJ}\ {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math>) and January (<tex-math>$-113\ {\rm kJ}\ {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math>) when biomass and food quality were lowest. In February, when grass began to grow again, the birds achieved a surplus once again (<tex-math>$+167\ {\rm kJ}\ {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math>). Body mass changes through the winter were modelled using observed intake rates and estimated energy expenditure. Body mass predictions were consistent with observed mass and body condition changes. It is argued that mass loss in midwinter in this species is enforced by the limited feeding opportunity and declining food supply rather than an adaptive response to reduce predation risk. Geese gain substantial body reserves in autumn prior to this predictable mass loss. As soon as daylength and food biomass allow, lost reserves are replaced and mass increases rapidly in preparation for migration and breeding.
10.2307/3676349|Puffins Fratercula arctica were studied on Skomer Island, Wales (5144N, 519W) during 1972-77. Annual survival of breeding adults was 95%. Each year, 20-27% adults were without nesting burrows, and 2% were absent from the colony. 64% of pairs with burrows fledged a chick, with 5-16% not laying, 22-25% eggs not hatching, and 5% chick mortality. Much of the egg loss was caused by disturbance from prospecting Manx Shearwaters Puffinus puffinus which competed with Puffins for burrows. Data on the feeding and growth of chicks is given. Young Puffina first returned to the colony at two, or more usually three, years old. Four years was the earliest age for first breeding. At least 10-16% fledglings survived to four years old; it was not clear whether enough survived to replace adult mortality.
10.2307/3676099|A number of population parameters for the Common Guillemot are presented, derived from a study of marked birds on Skomer Island, Wales, and from recoveries of ringed birds. Breeding success on Skomer averaged 0.7 chicks/pair, and in two years adult survival averaged 91.5%. Guillemots returned to Skomer in their second year, and prior to breeding birds congregated in clubs. Guillemots first bred at four years old, but most of them probably breed for the first time in their fifth year. Two different estimates for the survival rate of birds up to five years old were: 16% and 20%. Juvenile survival calculated from ringing recoveries varied from 27% for southern England, where numbers are stable or decreasing, to 41% in north-east Canada, where numbers have increased. Between 1972 and 1977 the Skomer Guillemot population remained at a similar level. If adult survival is 91.5% and 100 pairs of Guillemots produce 70 chicks, 17 (24%) of these must survive to breeding age to maintain a stable population. Factors influencing population size are discussed.
10.2307/3676709|Rates of primary-feather growth with respect to increase in length and increase in feather mass were estimated for nestlings of a range of bird species. The relationships between primary feather growth-rate constants and adult primary-feather length, primary-feather mass and adult body mass for these species are described. As adult body size increases, flight-feather growth is completed in a shorter proportion of the post-hatching growth period. The rate of deposition of primary-feather mass scales to final (asymptotic) primary-feather mass with a similar scaling exponent as that relating rates of overall growth in body mass to adult weight.
10.2307/3676741|Secondary females of polygynous males often have a lower breeding success, because they receive no or reduced male help. Widowed females, facing a similar problem, are known to copulate with other males who may then adopt the brood. I here report on a special case of polyandry where a secondary female obtained parental care from three males. By behaving as an unpaired female towards a widowed male she managed to get help from this male. It is suggested that soliciting EPCs could result in male help under certain conditions.
10.2307/3676568|Effects of snow depth and rate of snowmelt on reproduction of a montane ground-nesting passerine were examined in a 5-year study of Dark-eyed Juncos Junco hyemalis in northern Utah, USA. Distribution of clutch sizes differed significantly among years. Although most clutches contained four eggs, 3-egg clutches, due primarily to second nestings, were more common during a year of early snowmelt and 5-egg clutches were most common during two years of late snowmelt. Average clutch size was lowest in an early snowmelt year and average clutch size and date at which meadows became snow-free were significantly positively correlated. Average hatching date of 4-egg clutches was also significantly positively correlated with date at which meadows became snow-free demonstrating that most birds tracked the pattern of snowmelt. Early snowmelt may allow more pairs to attempt second nesting, but late-lying snow causes breeding to be delayed, allowing time for only one nesting attempt. During this delay, female juncos continue to feed and some may gain enough reserves to produce larger clutches, accounting for the increase in average clutch size in years of late snowmelt. Three female juncos examined in June 1982, a period of late snowmelt, had significantly more lipid reserves than did six males collected at the same time, suggesting that females are not physiologically stressed while awaiting snowmelt. By tracking snowmelt patterns, juncos synchronize production of young with peak summer insect abundance and potentially decrease risk of predation. Snow depth and rate of snowmelt are thus proximate environmental factors that may influence the reproductive ecology of ground-nesting passerines.
10.2307/3676185|Food, feeding behaviour, habitat selection when feeding, and food selection of downy Goldeneye ducklings are treated. Food analyses (n=10), studies of feeding methods and locations of wild broods, and complementary work on feeding behaviour and food selection of captive birds, are described. In the food analyses, fresh water insects dominated. Four kinds of feeding methods were observed: diving (most frequent), surface feeding, dabbling, and pecking at emergent plants. Three kinds of feeding locations were watched: open water (most frequent), vegetation of water-lilies, and vegetation of emergent plants. The food selection studies indicate selective feeding and preference for freely swimming prey. No size preference was found. The ducklings' feeding behaviour favours detection and catching of prey which is active and freely swimming or well exposed on bottom or on vegetation.
10.2307/3676513|The resident population of Song Sparrows breeding on Mandarte Island, British Columbia fluctuated markedly between 1975 and 1989. A major population crash occurred during a week of unusually severe winter weather in early February 1989. Over 90% of Song Sparrows alive on the island in mid-January 1989 disappeared by 9-12 February 1989. The high mortality was accompanied by directional natural selection favoring female birds with longer wings. No selection was detected among males. We addressed the alternative hypothesis that Song Sparrows died of disease rather than poor weather. The population of Fox Sparrows Passerella iliaca wintering on Mandarte also declined sharply during the same period as Song Sparrows. The contemporaneous decline in the population size of these two species supports the conclusion that severe weather caused the population crashes. However, Fox Sparrows survived the poor weather better than Song Sparrows, possibly because of greater fat reserves in the former species. The effect of cold weather on population size of Song Sparrows was local. Sex-specific adult mortality was highest on Mandarte, lowest at a nearby mainland site provided with supplemental winter food, and intermediate on similar islands near Mandarte. Our findings suggest three general points of interest. First, avian populations can be studied for a relatively long time (here, 14 yr) before rare but critical environmental effects on population size are found. Second, local populations comprising a large metapopulation can show highly variable responses to severe environmental conditions. Finally, if populations at nearby sites can behave very differently, community interactions dependent upon population densities of interacting species may also vary on the same local scale (Wiens 1977).
10.2307/3676682|Recent models of body mass regulation predict that small birds wintering under thermally stressful conditions should show increases in the dawn minima of their body mass and fat reserves with the approach of midwinter. This seasonal increase in energy reserves is hypothesized to function as insurance against the increased thermal demands during the short cold days of midwinter, when snowstorms can further reduce the already-deteriorating food supply. Superimposed on this winter fattening strategy, there should be a daily increase in the amount of fat stored for the coming night of fasting. To investigate patterns of variation in their body mass and fat reserves, Gray Jays Perisoreus canadensis were captured repeatedly near the northern limit of their range in Alaska between 7 September and 16 December 1987. As predicted, the dawn minima of body mass and fat stores tended to increase with the approach of midwinter. In addition, the results suggest that the jays increased their energy reserves later in the day, and that they facultatively increased their reserves in response to lower temperatures, heavier snowfall, and windier conditions. These results indicate that there was a seasonal increase in energy reserves associated with decreasing photoperiod, and that superimposed on this pattern was a daily cycle sensitive to contemporaneous climatic conditions. Thus, the jays appeared to have increased fasting capacity during those times when the risk of energetic shortfall was heightened.
10.2307/3676809|The distribution of landbirds throughout Australia is positively correlated with their distribution in the New England region of New South Wales, but only weakly, and negatively, correlated with local density. Local distribution is more strongly correlated with local density. This indicates that abundant species may tolerate or disperse into a range of habitats locally but that other factors influence their distribution on a continental scale, such as replacement by ecologically or phylogenetically similar species. Local density is positively correlated with niche breadth of foraging method and tree species, but not with niche breadth of substrate type or height. There are no positive correlations between any measures of distribution and niche breadth of foraging, though niche breadth for plant species is negatively correlated with breeding range. Thus, there is a tendency for generalists to be more abundant locally, but they do not appear to be more widespread. A broad foraging niche therefore does not seem to be the reason why widespread species may be locally abundant.
10.2307/3676061|This comparative study of the trophic diversity of the Barn Owl Tyto alba is based on published data from Germany, France, Switzerland, Portugal, and Spain. Shannon's information function and Pielou's evenness index were used to assess trophic diversity. Barn Owls from temperate localities showed a strongly stenophagous diet, biomass consumed being almost entirely from mammalian preys, whereas birds from southern, Mediterranean localities fed on more varied kinds of prey, trophic diversity being much greater there. Such a 'generalization' of the diet should be interpreted as a predator response compelled by the decrease in diversity and abundance of small mammals which takes place in the Mediterranean regions studied.
10.2307/3675920|Weights of 900 Brent Geese captured at 30 sites while flightless are examined. The geese included representatives of two breeding stocks and some moult-immigrants. The population to which an individual belonged seemed to have less effect on its weight than did its age, sex, recent breeding effort or the site where it was moulting. The mean weights, in kg, of adult males were 1.37  0.35, of adult females 1.23  0.40, of yearling males 1.22  0.26, and of yearling females 1.16  0.28. Females that had laid tended to weigh less than non-breeders taken in the same place. Though the weather in the spring and summer of 1974 was exceptionally poor, so that no geese nested and there was little plant growth, moulting geese weighed as much in late July 1974 as in the other years. The geese at a few sites weighed well above the general average. The mean weights of these moulters are only 5-7% less than the annual means of a collection of published weights of other Brent Geese. Capture caused appreciable temporary loss of weight, averaging 80 g after 5 d. Measurements of the growth of the longest primary feather indicated a mean daily increment of about 6 mm d<sup>-1</sup>; the geese being able to fly again before the wings are fully grown, the flightless period was no more than 22-25 d. Individuals with well grown new primaries weighed less than those caught at the same time and not yet showing new primaries, the difference being more marked in males.
10.2307/3676561|The properties of five wing shape indices were evaluated using data on the wing morphology of 540 Dark-eyed Juncos Junco hyemalis. These indices differed in their ability to detect age and sex related differences in wing shape. Correlations among the indices revealed that some between-index comparisons are not valid. Wing symmetry and pointedness, as identified by these indices, are not independent dimensions of wing shape. Comparison of the indices with an independent assessment of wing shape (PCA of the original variables) showed that no two indices of wing pointedness measure the same components of wing shape variation. Wing shape indices do not provide an unequivocal method for the analysis of wing shape and we recommend the use of alternative techniques such as multivariate analysis.
10.2307/3676467|We investigated the temporal associations between courtship feeding and copulatory behaviour prior to and during the egg-laying stage of Common Terns Sterna hirundo. The occurrence of courtship feeding did not affect either the likelihood of successful cloacal-contact copulations or the number of cloacal-contacts per copulation bout. In addition, courtship feeding did not appear to induce mounting behaviour. However, this finding is largely dependent on the manipulation of data prior to statistical analysis. We suggest that such manipulations be standardized and explicitly defined in future studies.
10.2307/3676121|Before and during the two breeding seasons of 1976 and 1977 the tits were fed with sun-flower seeds and nutrient enriched tallow in a <tex-math>$1.8\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> area. A <tex-math>$5.5\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> area was used as a control. The tits were not fed in experimental area in 1978. The aim was to find whether the tits take advantage of a rich food supply at the time of breeding. Laying was advanced in both species by 2-8 d in 1976 and 1977 but not in 1978. Clutch-size and number of fledglings were not significantly affected in any of the species. Fitness was improved by increasing the survival of the offspring rather than their number. The nestlings of the fed Crested Tits were heavier. There was a slight trend towards more second broods in the experimental area.
10.2307/3675876|During seven seasons Great Snipe lek behaviour was studied in westcentral Sweden. A general information about the lek and the males visiting is given as well as an account of the drumming display. A territorial system is established on the lek. Territories are not fixed between years. Territorial behaviour as intimidating, fighting and chasing is described. Chasing predominates when a female arrives for mating late in the evening. Courtship behaviour and copulation was observed. The social organization at the lek is described. Two groups of males are identified, territorial and non-territorial males. One difference used to separate these groups of males is the attendance to the lek. The non-territorials spending much shorter time at the lek. There is also a difference in attendance within the group of non-territorials suggesting one group being birds on migration. All copulation observed were performed by the territorial males known to be oldest.
10.2307/3676665|The extent to which control over adrenal steroidogenic function is established during embryogenesis, and therefore the ability of precocial neonates to withstand stress, is probably an important determinant of breeding success. Studies on the ontogeny of adrenal steroidogenic function in birds, however, have been limited to the chicken Gallus domesticus and the duckling Anas platyrhynchos. Up to the 21st day of embryogenesis, the temporal patterns of adrenal gland development in these species are similar. By the 15th day the adrenal anlage is encapsulated and consists of islands of chromaffin cells distributed throughout a mass of structurally typical steroidogenic cells; at this time the steroidogenic cells are responsive to 1-24 ACTH and they contain small quantities of corticosterone and aldosterone. During the next six days the corticotropic responsiveness increases although the inducible response of cells from the 21 day-old emerging chick embryo is less than that of cells from the 21 day-old duck embryo. In the duckling, corticotropic responsiveness increases further during the next week preceding emergence. Also the steroidogenic cells in the emerging duck embryo, but not those in the emerging chicken embryo, preferentially synthesize aldosterone in response to angiotensin II. Although catecholamines and acetylcholine each suppress basal unstimulated rates of corticosterone and aldosterone release from the steroidogenic tissue, none has an effect on 1-24 ACTH-inducible corticosteroid release.
10.2307/3676444|Local enhancement is one way individuals may realize foraging advantages from grouping. A distinction between fine-level and coarse-level local enhancement is made, the latter often being neglected in theoretical research on group foraging. In the former case, an individual has a higher feeding rate as a member of a group because individuals copy other group members' foraging, whereas in the latter, groups simply attract other individuals to patches where food is particularly abundant and copying does not occur within the group. Coarse-level local enhancement may decrease the time needed to find profitable feeding patches in spatially and temporally variable environments. A review of the empirical literature indicated that coarse-level local enhancement is typical in bird species foraging in open habitats and in large groups with relatively little competition between group members whereas the opposite attributes fit the species for which fine-level local enhancement had been documented. Furthermore, species in which coarse-level local enhancement prevails usually forage in temporary groups. However, coarse-level and fine-level local enhancement are not necessarily mutually exclusive, but which one is more important in a particular case may be habitat-dependent.
10.2307/3675882|(1) Food and habitat utilization, activity and territorial behaviour in the Common Buzzard Buteo buteo L. and the Rough-legged Buzzard B. lagopus Pontopp. were studied in southern Sweden where the two species winter sympatrically. (2) Both species maintained virtually exclusive territories both intra- and interspecifically. (3) The species showed nearly identical food choice, and the overlap value was calculated to be 0.99. The Common Buzzards were, however, found to take slightly more Apodemus spp than the Rough-legs. (4) Habitat distribution of the two species was very similar, and the overlap was found to be 0.88, but the Common Buzzards perched (i.e., looked for prey) more often in groves and swamps and less often in moist and dry meadows than the Rough-legs. However, both species preferred to hunt in areas with high rodent densities and avoided the poorer habitats. (5) Rough-legged Buzzards were found to hover to some extent, especially in strong wind, while the Common Buzzards did not make use of this hunting technique or at least only very rarely. Calculations of the power requirement in both species showed, however, that the Common Buzzard would require less energy for hovering than the Rough-legs. The hunting success of hovering Rough-legs indicates that hovering is an expensive method to obtain rodents except under high wind velocities. Since both species in most cases hunt using a "sit and wait strategy" the species compete for suitable perching sites. (6) The diel periodicity in both species was found to be almost identical with a flight activity peak around noon. (7) Because of the great ecological similarities between the two species it seems adaptive for them to defend territories both intra- and interspecifically. The largely separate winter distribution of the two species suggests that individuals of both species have higher fitness when they do not have to compete with members of the opposite species.
10.2307/3676396|Thirty-two Great Tit Tit broods were sampled using the neck-collar method. Fifty percent (n = 526) of the prey brought to the nestlings were Lepidoptera imagines (moths), almost exclusively Noctuidae. Peridroma saucia was the main moth species brought. Caterpillars were only abundant very early in the nestling stage, moths being more abundant during most of this period. We conclude that, in orange groves, the Great Tit breeding population depends heavily on moths to feed the nestlings. Fledging successs does not seem to be affected by this major change in the diet, though clutch size is smaller than in other habitats.
10.2307/3676432|To study possible density-dependent processes and differences in reproductive success between populations of the Great Tit breeding at high and low latitudes longterm data from Oulu, Finland (17 yr) and Budapest, Hungary (19 yr) were analysed. Large fluctuations and low productivity as a consequence of high nestling mortality were recorded in the northern population, where neither intra- nor interspecific density-dependent effects were found. High density and high productivity were shown in the Central European population, where intraspecific density-dependent clutch size reduction was found. Interspecific density-dependent clutch size reduction and hatching failure due to competitor species were also found in this population.
10.2307/3676754|Recoveries of Shags ringed at colonies in north Europe showed marked differences between regions in the timing and extent of dispersal from colonies outside the breeding season. In addition to differences between populations, age-related and annual variations occur. Whereas some populations were comparatively consistent in their year to year dispersal patterns and there were no age related differences, others, e.g. the Forth/Farnes, showed marked age related and annual variations. Populations on exposed coasts showed greater variation in dispesal between years, possibly due to influences of weather on food availability. For most populations, median winter movements were generally less than 100 km, and winter ranges of different breeding populations were relatively discrete. North Norwegian Shags apparently undergo migratory rather than dispersive movements but important biases may be included in the data. It is concluded that "eruptive" movements are merely the later stages in a graded response to deteriorating environmental conditions and the occurrence of such behaviour in different populations is determined by the availability of sheltered feeding conditions.
10.2307/3676290|The geographical variation of Podiceps auritus was studied from 376 museum specimens. Ageing and description of plumages and moults are given. The geographical variation consists mainly in a clinal reduction of pigmentation in Siberia towards ssp. cornutus (Gmelin, 1788) in North America, and a much longer and thicker bill in ssp. arcticus Boje, 1822, in Iceland and Northern Norway (including N. Scotland, Faeroes, Jutland up to 1860). The distinctiveness of this race is further supported by data on egg dimensions, ethology, and ecology. In contrast to nominate race, ssp. arcticus is less specialized in habitat selection and feeding. The geographical variation is explained mainly as character displacement, due to the presence of P. griseigena, and the absence of other grebe species in Iceland and Northern Norway. Historical viewpoints on the origin of ssp. arcticus are given.
10.2307/3676736|We assume that the fat levels of a small bird in winter reflect a tradeoff between starvation and predation. This tradeoff is formalized by finding the level of fat that minimizes total mortality (starvation plus predation) in a given environment. A bird is characterised in terms of its level of energy reserves. The bird starves if these reserves fall to zero. In general, the probability that the bird is killed by a predator increases with increasing reserves. We consider two models. In both at each time unit during a day a bird can choose, as a function of its reserves, to forage or to rest. In the forage vs rest model there is only one foraging option. In the foraging intensity model the bird can choose from a range of options, where options with a high energetic gain also incur a high predation risk. We find the optimal level of reserves for various environments, together with the resulting levels of starvation and predation. Unless food availability is very high, an improvement in overall availability results in a decrease in the mean reserves at dusk (MRD); in the foraging intensity model there is also a trend towards choosing safer foraging options with lower mean gains. An increase in variability, either as a result of a decreased probability of finding food or an increase in interruptions of foraging, increases MRD. The increase in reserves is not sufficient to prevent an increase in starvation. As a result, reserves and starvation can be positively correlated across environmental conditions. The level of starvation tends to be lower than the level of predation, but the ratio of starvation to predation tends to increase as conditions become worse. In the middle of winter, the days are short and the nights are long and cold. The optimal response to a decrease in daylength involves an increase in both dawn and dusk levels of reserves. This pattern is also found when overnight expenditure increases but daylength is constant. In this context we show that when temperatures are very low, a small saving in energy can result in a substantial increase in survival probability. The relevance of this result for evaluating the importance of hypothermia is discussed.
10.2307/3676450|Two female Pied Flycatchers Ficedula hypoleuca laid their eggs in the same nest, but at different times. This resulted in two size classes among the nestlings. The females did not preferentially feed the young to whom they were genetically related, and the male siring the smaller young only, provided relatively more food for the larger nestlings.
10.2307/3676365|To study the influence of plumage coloration on male-male interactions and female choice of males, I dyed territorial males of the White-crowned Sparrow Zonotrichia leucophrys pugetensis. I compared (1) control males with normal black-and-white crown, (2) males with (dyed) black crown, showing less contrast than normal males, and (3) males with normal crown and (dyed) black breast, being more conspicuous than males of group (1) and (2). Before manipulation, morphological and behavioural traits were similar among male groups. Males were caught on newly established territories, manipulated in captivity, and released when their territories had been occupied by replacement males. Coloration did not influence the degree to which males regained their territories, suggesting that the black colour was unimportant in contests between males. Male pairing rate after release did not differ significantly among male groups, and females did not prefer the most conspicuous males.
10.2307/3676721|Greenfinches located food faster in groups as they were informed by feeding flock mates about its location (local enhancement). Still, gains in search efficiency due to local enhancement were insufficient to balance the smaller shares obtained from depletable patches by individuals in a flock and the intake rate for the average individual decreased. Stable foraging groups, based on an increased intake rate for every member, are therefore not possible. Improvements in search efficiency decreased with increasing flock size as the proportion of patch revisits increased. In spite of finding food faster, intake rates of group forages will decrease unless patches are too large or too ephemeral to be depleted. The decrease in intake rates at group foraging further requires that solitary birds gain from using memory while foraging, a benefit which is eroded in flocks. Still, a reduced risk of starvation could reconcile group foraging with reduced intake rates since local enhancement reduces the variance in food intake.
10.2307/3675983|The efficiency of the international standard for estimating population density and changes was tested in two woodland plots (46 and 70 ha). Population changes were poorly reflected when only 10 surveys per year were conducted. This was due to yearly differences in total census efficiency. The efficiency was different for different species and was affected also by the time of the censuses in relation to the breeding cycle. Recommendations to overcome some difficulties are given.
10.2307/3676792|An index of condition was developed for wild Red Grouse chicks aged 10-30 days. This was derived from the difference between the observed weight and that expected from the chick's age, or stage of feather development. To measure it, the chicks needed to be caught only once. Variations in condition among different broods of wild chicks were greater than variations among broods of captive chicks in the same years, probably because the wild chicks' environment was harsher and more variable. Within years, the condition of wild chicks was not related to their brood size. Among years, mean condition was correlated both with breeding success and with the biomass of green heather food available in spring. This was because the chicks' condition and survival were poor for two years following an episode of severe weather damage to the heather.
10.2307/3676275|The cycle of the male sex organs in Pied Flycatchers from northern and southern Sweden is described. The results are discussed in relation to the breeding behaviour of the species. The birds were colour banded and watched daily in the field to ascertain the exact breeding situation of every investigated male. The Pied Flycatcher has an extremely early testicular regression, which is well synchronised with the normal hatching time, independent of year and latitude. Once spermatogenesis has been initiated it ceases after a definite time, and no prolongation seems possible. The activity of the Leydig cells declines rapidly immediately after the egg-laying period. This can be correlated with changes in singing activity, and with the aggressive and polygamous behaviour of the species. The sex ratio in the broods was determined; and equal sex ratio, 1:1, was found.
10.2307/3676414|A four year study was carried out on the hybridization between Carrion Crow and Hooded Crow in four overlap areas in northwestern Italy, in order to ascertain whether assortative mating occurred. The number of hybrid pairs was lower than expected whereas the number of homomorphic black pairs was higher. Differences between observed and expected frequencies were statistically significant. It is suggested that the low fitness of hybrids is the ultimate reason why individuals should mate assortatively whereas some differences in courtship (such as vocalizations, postures, perception of colour differences) may be one of the proximate factors enabling this.
10.2307/3676838|For centuries sea bird fowling in the Faroe Islands has been regulated by a series of traditionally developed and adopted rules so as to keep the bird populations on a steady level while, at the same time, giving a maximum yield. In a speach in the Danish Parliament in 1854 a Faroese MP said: "Fowling in the Faroe Islands is carried out by peculiar methods, which aim at maintaining this important industry for generations to come." Ownership of certain parts of the bird colonies puts the responsibility upon the individual owner not to overexploit his part of the colony. In villages with common ownership of the bird colonies, rules were set by the annual community meeting. Maximum bag was regulated yearly according to observations of bird population growth or decline. In the vertical Guillemot Uria aalge cliffs a certain number of birds were allowed to be taken from each ledge ("subcolony"), and each of these had a place name. The fowling of Puffin Fratercula arctica and Guillemot is discussed with special reference to how traditional knowledge (accumulated during at least 300 yr) compares with present ecological knowledge.
10.2307/3676804|Banding data for 1975-1985 were used to determine the latitudinal distribution of sex and age (males only) classes of the American Goldfinch Carduelis tristis during winter in eastern North America. Males wintered north of females, and among males, immatures wintered farther north than adults. Analysis of recovery data suggested that age and sex differences in winter distribution resulted from differences in distance migrated from the breeding grounds. The results are discussed in light of existing hypotheses proposed to explain differential migration. Geographic differences in the winter distribution of the sexes are qualitatively consistent with predictions of both the body size and social dominance hypotheses, but neither these, nor the arrival time hypothesis, can explain why male goldfinches make longer migrations from the breeding grounds as adults. We propose that young goldfinches may be physiologically or behaviorally incapable of making long migrations during their first autumn.
10.2307/3675917|The Ural Owl and the Tawny Owl have ranges in Scandinavia which meet in central Sweden between 60N and 61N with only a small overlap. These two owl species were compared with respect to their food and habitat utilization within the narrow zone where sympatry occurs. Their food utilization, despite their conspicuous size difference, was nearly identical ( = 0.96), both species feeding mainly upon Arvicola terrestris and Microtus agrestis. Changes in prey composition between years were parallel. However, the Ural and Tawny Owls were clearly segregated by habitat ( = 0.44) and thus did not compete directly. The Tawny Owl preferred arable land and the Ural Owl taiga forest with a large proportion of open habitats such as mires and clear-fellings. The present parapatric distribution border coincides closely with the sudden change in vegetation in central Sweden, where northern coniferous forest is replaced by a mixed farmland habitat. Partly due to modern forestry a large proportion of Ural Owl pairs lack suitable nest sites and produce no young. Thus, the distribution pattern is probably mainly due to differences in habitat preferance but may secondarily be an effect of nest site scarcity among Ural Owls. It is suggested that provision of abundant nest-boxes may lead to the Ural Owl extending its range into that of the Tawny Owl and possibly to intensified competitive interactions.
10.2307/3676770|A 32 g telemetry unit for birds is described. Elements included are a motion sensor and a radio transmitter, plus onboard storage for one week of activity data. This combined direct-transmitting and storing telemetry unit provided activity data from Kittiwakes Rissa tridactyla in Svalbard in 1985. The principles of the device are presented, with some results to illustrate its performance.
10.2307/3676496|Capercaillie hens laid fertilized eggs for an average of 24 d (range 22-26 d) after separation from males. New matings are likely necessary prior to renesting in this species to insure fertilized repeat clutches. The seasonal decline in fertility often observed in captive Capercaillie is likely a result of some hens not remating, while concurrently continuing to lay beyond the fertile period.
10.2307/3675946|The postjuvenile moult pattern of captive individuals from two Scandinavian (Ume 6320N and Andya 6916N) Starling populations was studied. The birds were hand-raised and kept under constant environmental conditions which made it possible to investigate possible endogenous differences in the circannual time-program of the moult. Birds from Ume went through a complete moult significantly faster than did birds from Andya. This was particularly pronounced when considering the remiges. Birds from Andya also showed a greater temporal segregation of the moult of different parts of the plumage. The results show that there is a difference in the endogenous circannual rhythm of moult between birds from the two populations. This is in good agreement with the different natural annual cycles birds from these two populations show, i.e. birds from Andya are non-migratory and lay two clutches per year, whereas birds from Ume are completely migratory and lay only a single clutch per year.
10.2307/3676439|In a choice between different experimental plots, Wigeon initiated grazing bouts in fertilized vegetation plots in late April and early May, but switched to clipped plots at the end of May. There was a positive correlation between the frequency of plots first visited and time spent grazing in these same plots, as well as between the mean length of grazing bouts in different plots and the time spent grazing in those plots. Wigeon spent more time grazing in fertilized plots during the mid afternoon and evening in the early breeding period (late April and early May) than in the late breeding period (late May and early June). The mean peck rates in different plots did not differ during the early period, but later decreased as a result of increasing vegetation height. There was a positive correlation between the mean nitrogen concentrations in leaf tips and time spent grazing. Furthermore, there was a positive correlation between nitrogen concentration and the mean duration of grazing bouts. The extrinsic and intrinsic factors affecting the birds' selection of particular plots during the breeding season are discussed.
10.2307/3676657|Like other penguin species, molting Emperor Aptenodytes forsteri and King A. patagonica penguins remain ashore and fast for several weeks during which their entire plumage is simultaneously renewed. Molt therefore involves the use of endogenous lipid reserves and body protein to meet the nutrient requirements not only for new feather synthesis, but also for the increase in energy expenditure associated with the decrease in thermal insulation. This energetic and metabolic stress results in a 45% decrease in body mass and in a 50% loss of body protein. There is no evidence that metabolic hormones such as glucagon, insulin and corticosterone play a major role in the control of metabolic events specifically related to molt. In contrast, the marked increase in circulating thyroxine at the onset of new feather synthesis in adult Emperor and King penguins, and in Emperor Penguin chicks, suggests that this hormone triggers molt by stimulating the development of the new plumage. On the other hand, triiodothyronine could intervene in the control of energy metabolism in situations of acute cold exposure, as during the loss of old feathers in the antarctic adult Emperor Penguins.
10.2307/3676658|Fasting to initiate reproductive involution and body weight loss has been commonly employed for commercial induced molt procedures involving the Domestic Fowl Gallus domesticus. This mimics the anorexia associated with natural molt in some wild avian species. A body weight loss of approximately 30% was found to produce optimum postmolt reproductive performance with regard to rate of egg production and eggshell quality. Lipid in the shell gland was found to be reduced only after a body weight loss of 25% was achieved. Others have reported an induced molt to be associated with an increase in the shell gland phosphatidylcholine to phosphatidylethanolamine ratio and an increase in tissue accumulation of calcitriol. We have reported an increased concentration and activity of shell gland calcitriol receptor as well as an increase in calbindin-D28k. These results suggest that complete involution of the oviduct and shell gland is necessary for complete restructuring and rejuvenation. There was evidence that a high protein diet during recrudescence aids in the rapid return to reproductive function.
10.2307/3676270|Ptarmigan chicks feed primarily on blueberry in the summer and on willow and birch in winter. Experiments showed that chicks less than 10 wk old have a poorly developed ability to feed on willow. At the age of 12 wk or older they master willow eating to perfection even when it is offered to them for the first time in their life. The survival value of this and other known age-determined developments in Ptarmigan chicks is briefly discussed.
10.2307/3676340|Phenotypic correlations between body size and egg dimensions were poor in the Great Tit and Pied Flycatcher populations studied in northern Finland. Heritability of egg volume was high in the Great Tit, 0.860.29. The phenotypic effect of a female upon egg dimensions was great, about 60% of total variance, and this was interpreted as the approximate effect of additive genetic factors. The age of the female had slight effects on egg dimensions, and clutches of different years and the first and second clutches of the same year had similar egg dimensions, although clutch size decreased significantly during the season in the Great Tit. However, egg size as well as the effect of non-heritable factors on egg size increased in replacement clutches laid shortly after the first clutch. The high heritability of egg dimensions implies that egg size should rapidly respond to differential selection pressures, but geographical variation in egg size has not been found in the species studied. However, selection pressures affecting the adaptive variation of egg size in an English Great Tit population were concluded to differ from those operating in northern Finland.
10.2307/3676495|Food habits and trophic convergence between Palearctic Eagle Owl and Nearctic Great Horned Owl were studied on the basis of the taxonomic composition of their diet, trophic diversity and mean weight of prey. Within each faunal region six biomes were distinguished: Mediterranean shrubland, temperate deciduous forest, boreal conifer forest, grassland, temperate desert, and mountain. Three prey assemblages dominated the diet of the two owls but maximum frequencies were not always attained in similar Palearctic and Nearctic biomes. Thus, lagomorphs dominated in the Mediterranean shrubland (Eagle Owl) and temperate deciduous forest (Great Horned Owl), respectively; voles (Cricetidae) dominated the diet of both owls in the boreal conifer forest; desert rodents (gerbils, jerboas and kangaroo rats) and invertebrates dominated their diet in deserts. The diet of the two owl species reached maximum trophic diversity in temperate deciduous forest and deserts and minimum mean weight of prey in the deserts. Great Horned Owls tended to have a more diverse diet than Eagle Owls. Limited trophic convergence between the two species of owl could be due to differences between similar Palearctic and Nearctic biomes in the composition of prey assemblages and abundance of the preferred prey (lagomorphs), and to intra- and interspecific differences in the body weight of the owls.
10.2307/3676120|The rearing activities of the Common Eider Somateria mollissima were studied in the Grand Manan Archipelago, N.B., Canada. Tide and time of day were both correlated with a number of different activities. Generally, tide affected physical or biotic aspects of the environment while time of day was related to the internal need to feed. Eiders concentrated along sheltered, rockweed-covered shores, feeding most actively at tides when food was most available but with a concurrent diurnal feeding pattern that had peaks of activity early and late in the day. Tide, time of day, and status of the birds interacted in determining the use of various nearshore habitats. Groups of females and young travelled from the nesting islands to rearing areas 5-8 km away. This departure was timed, by tide and time of day, to minimize gull (Larus spp.) predation and to use favourable currents.
10.2307/3676155|Bird species richness increases strongly with bog area. Slopes of log-log area-species regressions (z-values) on raised bogs are high (0.35-0.62), even when only large (> 100 ha) bogs are considered. The density of most waders is higher on larger (> 50 ha) than on smaller bogs. Wader density increases northwards and also as bogs become rounder and wetter. We suggest that variations in wetness, predation pressure and food density are the causes of these patterns of wader density. The density of passerines decreases northwards but for other groups the reverse trend is present. The increasing wetness northwards on raised bogs and the higher density of rodents are possible causes of these trends. From a conservation point of view, one large bog is on average more valuable than several small bogs with the same combined area.
10.2307/3676641|The pattern of plasma concentrations of growth hormone (GH) during growth and development is very similar in all species of birds studied. Plasma concentrations of GH rise during late embryonic and early post hatching development. This reflects increased GH secretion. There are considerable increases in the number of somatotrophs, in the pituitary content of GH and in the sensitivity to GH secretagogues. Later in development, plasma concentrations of GH decline due to an increase in clearance and a reduction in secretion. This ontogenic pattern of circulating concentrations of GH is remarkably similar in four avian orders suggesting that this was found in the common ancestor and that strong evolutionary pressure existed to retain this pattern. The ontogenic pattern of liver GH receptors is inversely related to the concentration of GH. During development, plasma concentrations of GH are elevated by the same environmental factors (e.g. nutrition, toxicants) which attenuate growth. This may be part of the "catch-up" growth mechanisms to ensure growth to an optimal size once the temporary constraint has been removed.
10.2307/3676811|This paper reports a study which examined whether the diel activity pattern of lapwings varies cyclically in relation to moonphase during the non-breeding season (July to February). The main aim of the study was to test the model proposed by Spencer (1953) that Lapwings feed by day and roost at night during most of the lunar month, except for a few days around full moon, when the pattern is reversed. A lunar rhythm of the type proposed by Spencer was detected during winter but not in summer, while the evidence for its existence in autumn was equivocal. In winter, the lunar rhythm was interrupted by low temperature, dense cloud or heavy rain at night, which suggests that the behaviour is opportunist and not endogenous. The nature and adaptive significance of the link between the daily activity pattern of Lapwings and the lunar cycle are discussed.
10.2307/3676909|Behaviour of Bar-tailed Godwits Limosa lapponica was studied in northern Norway. The Ceremonial Flight consisted of four phases, of which the Limping Flight had the most striking visual and vocal components. Noisy and conspicuous Pursuit Flights, in which males followed their mates closely, occurred in the pre-laying period and often attracted unmated males. Ground courtship involved raising the tail, and in Erect Courtship the bill pointed slightly upwards. Aggressive postures lacked tail erection, and the bill slanted downwards. Altogether, nine different kinds of vocalizations were recognized, apparently parts of a graded communication system. It is concluded that the Ceremonial Flight mainly has heterosexual functions (signalling unmated status and re-enforcing the pair bond), and that the tail erection in courtship may be an ancestral character.
10.2307/3676091|Dead gulls marked either with leg rings or bill tags were dropped in the North Sea to simulate a mortality incident. Recovery rates were 0.3% for rings and 19.3% for the more durable and conspicuous tags. Recovery places were mainly in Norway but spread between 58 and 70N. Reports were also spread over a long time with a median interval of 142 d. Most bodies had probably decomposed in six months and many in less so many reports probably referred to plastic markers alone. The distribution of recoveries was broadly in line with that predicted by wind vector analysis. Bodies moved at 11.9% of the wind speed as measured at Bergen, but it was 3.0 times more windy in the North Sea, so the real relative drift rate was 4.0%. It is concluded that a major bird mortality incident in the North Sea would not readily be detected or measured by emergency beached bird surveys.
10.2307/3676587|Three potential explanations for lowered spring densities of territorial cock Spruce Grouse (Dendragapus canadensis) in pine forests of southwestern Alberta were investigated over two years by counting males on 12 pairs of plots (x = 31.9 ha), half of which had all territorial cocks removed in the first year. Invoking a lack of potential recruits as one explanation for low mean densities (5.8 cocks <tex-math>$100\ {\rm ha}^{-1}$</tex-math>) on the sample of plots was considered unsupported because the density of males remained the same overall in the second year despite the removal of 45% of territorial cocks in the first year. Furthermore, the proportion of yearlings in the territorial population increased from 8% in the first year to 25% in the second year. An alternative hypothesis suggested that the low density of territorial cocks resulted from resident males occupying ever larger territories as the forests matured, thereby forcing numbers down locally. This explanation was also rejected because, under this hypothesis, increased numbers were not predicted on any plots, yet 25% of them showed an increase in the second year. The counts of territorial cocks on the two groups of plots came closest to satisfying the predictions of the third hypothesis, namely that as pine forests matured (tree height increased, stem density and shrub cover declined), they became progressively less attractive to potential male recruits. As predicted, plots on which grouse were either absent in both years or declined in numbers in the second year had significantly lower stem densities and shrub cover than those plots on which the density of grouse remained constant or increased.
10.2307/3676802|Possible causes and reproductive consequences of natal dispersal in both sexes of the Collared Flycatcher Ficedula albicollis were investigated using data from a longterm population study on the island of Gotland in the Baltic. Females moved further than males. Of several factors related to natal conditions, only natal brood size was significantly related to dispersal distance, females from small broods moving further than those from large broods. No association between population density and natal dispersal was found. Increased natal dispersal distance was associated with low reproductive success among females and low survival rate among males. For both females and males this association was only significant among birds hatched late in the season. Natal dispersal distance of resident species has been found to show positive, negative, or no correlation with population density and time of birth. I suggest that the use of simple correlations, which fail to detect other relationships than monotonically increasing or decreasing ones, may be one explanation for this inconsistency. It is suggested that prior knowledge of a breeding area may tend to raise the quality of sites chosen and that short-dispersers therefore are more successful than long-dispersers. This may be an important advantage of philopatry.
10.2307/3676678|We studied the abundance of arthropod food within spruce Picea abies in relation to the foraging site selection of tits Parus and the Goldcrest Regulus regulus in winter in Central Sweden. Arthropods, spiders in particular, were most abundant in upper tree parts and in the outer sections of branches. There was a high correlation between food abundance and bird density, based on proportional use of foraging sites over eight sections of spruce suggesting that food distribution is a major factor influencing the segregative distribution of the four bird species. However, the distribution of the bird species cannot be explained solely by food abundance. In outer tree parts there were fewer birds than expected from arthropod biomass. A possible explanation is that the risk of predation by Pygmy Owls Glaucidium passerinum is higher there, reducing the net benefit of foraging in the tree parts with highest food abundance. A further support for the impact of predation comes from the fact that it is the socially least dominant species, the Goldcrest and the Coal Tit P. ater, that use the outer tree parts. Crested Tits P. cristatus are highest in dominance rank, but they mainly forage in the inner tree parts. Willow Tits P. montanus are second in the dominance, but have the lowest food abundance in their foraging sites. Both interspecific competition over food, and the site-dependent risk of predation, seem to govern the ways in which the four bird species select their foraging sites in spruce in winter.
10.2307/3676580|Jackass Penguins were fed either fish, squid, or a mixture and then stomach pumped at increasing time intervals after ingestion. The squid took longer to be evacuated from the stomach than the fish in all cases. This suggests that care must be exercised when interpreting bird diets using the volume or mass of stomach contents.
10.2307/3676645|Many migratory birds wintering in tropical Africa have to cross the Sahara desert. Although recent research has evaluated the strategies passerine migrants may adopt to cope with trans-Saharan migration, physiological data on migrants in flight or even immediately after landing are almost completely lacking. Therefore, we carried out a pilot study in the Algerian Sahara during autumn 1989 exploiting the fact that many desert migrants are attracted by very small vegetation spots, even a single bush, thus offering the opportunity to get access to birds within a few minutes after their landing. A modern blood autoanalyser which was established in a minitruck enabled concurrent routine measurements of a series of tissue-derived plasma enzymes and chemistries, and whole blood hematocrit and hemoglobin. These values are compared with pre-migratory values obtained in S-Germany in 1990. Elevated levels of plasma glucose, plasma triglycerides, plasma enzymes, and whole blood hematocrit at the desert sites compared with the pre-migratory values indicate the higher metabolic demands of birds in flight, and the use of body proteins during migration. Higher levels of plasma sodium and urea nitrogen in lean than in fat birds reflect dehydration in lean birds which suffer from the lack of appropriate metabolic water production from fat during their migratory flights.
10.2307/3676156|The effects of environmental conditions on the feeding rates of Ringed and Grey Plovers, Charadrius hiaticula and Pluvialis squatarola, were investigated on intertidal sand-flats at Lindisfarne National Nature Reserve, Northumberland, England. The rate of taking large prey increased with environmental conditions in which these prey became more active, or detectable, at the sand surface, notably warmer temperatures, lower wind-force and wet substrate (the last manifested as short times after tidal exposure). When the rate of taking large prey was low, the rate of taking smaller prey increased with environmental conditions in which these prey became more active, or detectable, at the sand surface. As larger prey became more available, however, these were selected and feeding rates on small prey fell. The potential influences of some environmental factors on feeding rate where manifested only when other environmental factors were adverse.
10.2307/3676663|We studied the behavioral and physiological responses of Dark-eyed Juncos Junco hyemalis exposed to experimental paradigms simulating the climatic conditions during winter. Captive flocks (6 birds of mixed sex and age) under two experimental regimes were studied: food was provided in 6 cups (free distribution - FD) or 2 cups (limited distribution - LD). After 2.5 days of grouping, social rank was determined in addition to endocrine (plasma levels of luteinizing hormone (LH), 5-dihydrote-stosterone (DHT), testosterone (T), and corticosterone (B)) and metabolic measures such as (body mass, fat deposition (fat score), adipose and muscle lipoprotein lipase activity (ALPL, MLPL) and liver fatty acid synthase (FAS). Adult males dominated all other birds and all males dominated females. Food distribution altered aggressive activity. Birds in LD flocks displayed more aggressive behavior than those of FD. This aggression focused mainly on controversies over food. The elevated level of aggression showed no correspondence with plasma androgen. Females however had higher levels of T than males. No differences were found with plasma LH, DHT, B or the various measures of lipid metabolism. Scrutiny of the feeding patterns of flock members identified that female feeding schedules diverged from that of males. Following the overnight fast, males dominated the food cups but once the initial frenzy of activity subsided, females fed. These data suggest that low ranking individuals (females) adapt to existing environmental conditions by altering the temporal pattern of feeding activity to maximize food consumption and reduce conflict with dominant individuals.
10.2307/3676174|Measurements, weights, and lipid levels of 85 Dunlins collected during two autumn seasons at the Ottenby Bird Observatory in South Sweden were analyzed. Males had significantly shorter wings and bills, and lower body weights than females. Fat depots ranged from about 5 to 30 per cent of total weight and accounted for the major variations in body weight. No correlation was found between body size and lipid level. The water content expressed as a percentage of fat-free weight was virtually constant within each year sample, irrespective of body size and lipid level. Significant differences in fat-free dry weights and water content between the two year samples were found. A formula for calculation of fat stores from total weight and wing length is presented. The results are compared to other work on waders and passerines.
10.2307/3676169|Bird fauna, especially waders, were studied in open shore meadows in southern Sweden during three breeding seasons. On 21 localities surveyed, Anthus pratensis and Motacilla flava occurred most frequently. Estimated densities in 9 plots were 17-117 pairs/10 ha. Two localities (Gettern and Hslv) were quantitatively and - less pronounced - qualitatively outstanding, probably due to favourable feeding conditions. Of five dominant bird species, Tringa totanus and Motacilla flava had the broadest amplitudes as to height and frequency of tussocks and intensity of land utilization. Some wader species were studied in grazed and cut areas, but preference for either habitat was not observed. Some ecological implications on the bird fauna of cattle grazing are discussed.
10.2307/3676529|In the autumn of 1986, 144 Song Thrushes were collected in southern Catalonia (N=107) and on the island of Mallorca (N=37) in order to study the radionuclide burden in migratory birds from areas affected by radioactive clouds from Chernobyl. Among the isotopes detected, those reaching highest activity levels were <tex-math>${}^{134}{\rm Cs}$</tex-math> and <sup>137</sup> Cs. The ratio between these two radioisotopes (0.5) as well as the detection at trace levels of <tex-math>${}^{106}{\rm Ru}$</tex-math>, <tex-math>${}^{113}{\rm Sn}$</tex-math>, <tex-math>${}^{95}{\rm Zr}$</tex-math>, <tex-math>${}^{110{\rm m}}{\rm Ag}$</tex-math> and <tex-math>${}^{125}{\rm Sb}$</tex-math>, clearly establishes that the Chernobyl accident was the source of this pollution. The mean levels of cesium radioisotope activity of Song Thrushes from Catalonia and Mallorca differed significantly. We hypothesize that this is because Song Thrushes migrating to Catalonia and the Balearic Islands, respectively, have different source areas, those originating from the Fennoscandian region being more polluted. An average dose of radioactive intake is calculated for human populations consuming Song Thrushes, and it is concluded that no health hazards other than stochastic ones are to be expected from such exposure.
10.2307/3676191|The various species of avian scavengers in southern Spain concentrated on different parts of the carcasses. A facilitatory effect of vultures and Wild Boars on Magpies and kites were detected, as well as an inverted (inhibitory) effect when short-period records were considered. After a directionality index of aggressive behaviour was obtained, it was shown that within the same species either threats, attacks, or fights occur, whereas among different species the smaller size scavengers mainly direct attacks towards those of greater size and the latter mainly threaten the smaller ones. When the response to other individuals was recorded, an interspecific hierarchy pattern was detected. The intraspecific response made apparent a gradient of increasing tolerance from Magpies to kites and vultures.
10.2307/3676735|We investigated variation in the number and size of brood patches of female (n = 133) and male (n = 81) American Kestrels Falco sparverius in northcentral Saskatchewan, Canada. We analyzed brood patch size with respect to characteristics of individual birds such as sex, age, size, condition, and clutch volume. All incubating birds developed brood patches but females tended to have larger patches than males. The size of the brood patch was correlated significantly only with the mass of the female. Birds with large eggs or large clutches did not necessarily have large brood patches, and patch size was not associated with laying date or hatching success. In a comparison with other avian taxa, we found kestrels to be unusual in that their three discrete brood patches did not correspond to the modal clutch size of five eggs. Kestrels potentially have difficulty heating all their eggs simultaneously.
10.2307/3676908|Gannets Sula bassanus, very large altricial birds, exhibit well developed thermolytic behaviour (panting, gular fluttering, posturing, etc.) by two days posthatch. In contrast, interactive mechanisms of heat conservation and thermogenesis developed gradually during the first three weeks posthatch, with a transitional phase from thermal dependence to independence during posthatch weeks 2 to 3. From hatching through 12 d slight increases in shivering capacity and down growth and an approximate 25% decrease in relative surface area were thermally ineffective. Shivering thermogenesis improved markedly from 13 to 24 d and was the primary determinant of the emergence of thermal independence. The ontogenetic contrast between early onset of heat tolerance and gradual development of heat conservation and thermogenic capacities suggests that heat stress is a greater threat to nestling survival than cold and that parental behaviour can cope more effectively with cold. Adaptive protection against hyperthermia in newly hatched young is widespread, as indicated by the onset of thermolysis before thermogenesis and heat conservation in most open-nesting seabirds. Insulation associated with down growth complements thermogenic development for many large altricial nonpasserines and more precocious species but not for passerines. The former nest in the open and are exposed to the cooling effects of wind, whereas the latter tend to be buffered from the wind by nest-sites and nests. Comparatively, leg musculature functionally matures before flight muscles and is the primary source of thermogenesis for most large altricial nonpasserines, whereas pectoral muscles assume this role for smaller nonpasserines, passerines, and precocial species.
10.2307/3676135|The total heat requirement to hatch an egg successfully was calculated to be 27.4 kcal, and the daily amount of heat applied to the eggs, at an air temperature of 16C, was 2.8 kcal. Mean daily air temperatures lower than 10C are increasingly unfavourable to the Goldcrest's breeding success. The northern distribution of the Goldcrest in Fennoscandia appears to be limited by the air temperature during the breeding season.
10.2307/3676750|Up to two extra chicks were added to a Redbreasted Sparrowhawk Accipiter rufiventris nest to determine whether the parents would increase their biomass provisioning rate. During 46 days of manipulations (day 19 to day 64) no response occurred in either of the adults' rate, or that combined. Provisioning mainly small passerines, the adults provided between 43 and <tex-math>$122\ {\rm g}\ {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math> during the first 64 days. The adult male which remained provisioning, "weaned" the one remaining fledgling until the 76th day following hatch when no more prey was delivered. The male provisioned significantly (<latex>${\rm p}<1\times 10^{-6}$</latex>) lighter prey than his mate but provided about 3.67 kg of prey in contrast to the female's 1.95 kg during the hatch-to-independence period. The rate of provisioning was significantly (p < 0.05) lowered during steady or torrential rain, but temperature extremes did not affect the rate. Since available daylight hours, temperature, instrinsic prey size, and rain could not account for the smaller amount of biomass delivered (to two nests), relative to temperate breeding sparrowhawks, I suggest in conjunction with other comparisons that some subtropical raptors may be reproductively limited by food abundance.
10.2307/3676724|Ricklefs (1969b, 1973, 1979) has proposed that the key to understanding the variation in growth rate among birds lies in physiological constraints, principally changes in developmental maturity of tissues. To examine this hypothesis I have developed a simple mathematical model of growth based on changes of water index (water weight/lean dry weight) as an indicator of the level of maturity. The growth curves obtained from the model are S-shaped and for altricial species they fit changes in body weight as well as Richards growth curve does. They can also describe weight recession in growing nestlings, which occurs prior to fledging. Values of parameters used in the model are consistent with values computed on the basis of experimental results. Thus these parameters are biologically relevant. Results obtained in the present paper supports Ricklef's suggestion that physiological constraints limit growth rate. Hence these results support the suggestion that growth rate is maximized. The relevance of water index and water fraction (water weight/lean wet weight) as indices of maturity is also considered.
10.2307/3676137|Registrations of the diel activity of the starling Sturnus vulgaris L. made at nesting-boxes in the vicinity of the Abisko Scientific Research Station (6821N, 1849E) during 1966-1973 show that this bird is day-active. Its locomotor activity is always synchronized with the 24-h period, a peak of activity occurring at noon and a period of rest at midnight. Various passerines, such as the Brambling Fringilla montifringilla L., Snow Bunting Plectrophenax nivalis L. and Canary Serinus canarius L., kept indoors in the laboratory under conditions of constant temperature but natural changes of light, show a diverging phaseposition in the summer: the start of the activity is displaced to the evening and the rest period to the afternoon. We conclude from this, that in subarctic regions in field conditions, the phase of activity is determined by the temperature during the course of the day and not by the changing light conditions.
10.2307/3676872|The decision of individuals to join flocks can be treated as analogous to a habitat selection game. When fitness decreases monotonically with rank in dominance-structured populations, subordinates may join flocks for a lack of alternatives. This approach to flocking in dominance-structured populations predicts that (1) stable flock size will increase the steeper the quality gradient between habitats and (2) the more despotic dominants are, and that (3) competitors will be distributed among habitats according to competitive ability. Furthermore, (4) there exists a unique solution to how individuals differing in competitive ability should distribute themselves between habitats when competition is of interference type. The existence of a unique solution when competition is of this type differs from the complexity of outcomes found when competition is of scramble type.
10.2307/3676817|Five species of scops-owls occur in Pakistan: Otus spilocephalus, O. scops, O. brucei, O. sunia and O. bakkamoena. The specific status of some has been questioned. Sonograms of their territorial calls and a table of wing formulae are presented, indicating that all five are indeed good species. Recent field studies in Pakistan have shown breeding sympatry between O. brucei and O. scops and between O. brucei and O. sunia with no apparent interbreeding or intergradation, further confirming their specific status. Breeding allopatry in Pakistan for O. scops and O. sunia is confirmed. Comparison of sonograms of the territorial calls of the Pakistan/India populations of O. bakkamoena with its eastern Himalayan/eastern Asian populations shows such a striking difference that we recommend that they be regarded as separate species, the Indian Scops-Owl, Otus bakkamoena and the Collared Scops-Owl, O. lempiji. Comparison of sonograms of the territorial calls of O. scops from Europe and Pakistan, with O. senegalensis from Oman indicates that they are separate species.
10.2307/3676442|Two male Yellow Wagtails Motacilla f. flava and one male Bluethroat Luscinia s. svecica were successively trained to ten colour papers, each representing one of the ten colour families in the Munsell 40 hue system. Discrimination was tested between the training hue and four neighbouring hues under standardized illumination. Yellow Wagtail hue discrimination was best in the red, orange and yellow families and less good towards shorter wavelengths and for red-purple hues. The Bluethroat discriminated best in the orange, purple-blue and purple families. Both species could memorize and make statistically significant discriminations between c. 20 hues. Their best discrimination occurred in spectral regions corresponding to their own sexually dimorphic plumage. Brightness (value) and saturation (chroma) discrimination was studied by training the same birds to the middle value/chroma of seven Munsell hues. The birds' value discrimination was poor: they learned to reject the darkest value(s) but not the brighter ones. Both species could discriminate between the less saturated chromas but they chose more saturated colours almost as frequently as the correct ones. Between the species there were differences particularly in chroma discrimination similar to those in hue discrimination. The Bluethroat's better hue discrimination in the short wavelength end of the spectrum (violet and blue) may tentatively be connected with the fact that this species has a larger proportion of cones sensitive to shorter wavelengths (about 75% of cones with colourless or pale greenish droplets), while in the Yellow Wagtail about 50% of the cones have red or yellow-orange oil droplets transmitting light efficiently only in the long wavelength part of the spectrum.
10.2307/3675972|The ecology of a population of Siberian Tits nesting in nest-boxes was studied in mountain birch forest at Kilpisjrvi (about 6903N, 2050E) in 1966-1980. The annual number of breeding pairs averaged 2.1  1.1 (SD), or <tex-math>$0.4\ \text{pairs}\ {\rm km}^{-2}$</tex-math>. The coefficient of variation in density was 52%. Partly due to the narrow study area, the average distance between the pairs was 3.2  1.5 km. Old individuals seemed to be more site-tenacious than first-breeders. The mean date of laying of the first egg was 25 May  10 d, the mean air temperature then being 2.9  3.2C. The average clutch size was 8.0  1.9 eggs and the number of fledged young 4.8  3.4 per nest. The largest clutches produced most fledglings per nest. The clutch weight averaged about 79% of the female's body weight. The average adult biomass of <tex-math>$11\ {\rm g}\ {\rm km}^{-2}$</tex-math> "produced" about <tex-math>$29\ {\rm g}\ {\rm km}^{-2}$</tex-math> of unhatched eggs, dead young and fledglings.
10.2307/3676142|Effect of sampling variation on seven commonly used indices of community structure was studied on the basis of simulated single-visit censuses. Simulations were made using pair numbers and species-specific efficiency values reported in census reports. Variation due to sampling errors is compared with the variation due to annual fluctuation in the communities for the three most important indices: density, number of species and diversity (Shannon's index). Comparison is also made between estimates calculated from the results of the simulations and values based on complete data. In four out of six communities studied, abundance and census efficiency of the species correlated positively, causing a slight underestimate of species diversity. As available estimates of efficiency are usually biased, statistically valid estimates should be made urgently especially in communities where "mapping efficiency" is low (probability of detection 50% or less).
10.2307/3676378|The assumption that parasitism is involved in most joint laying by two or more conspecific ducks in one nest is questioned. Joint laying by Buffleheads Bucephala albeola and Barrow's Goldeneyes B. islandica can be explained by assuming that all females start laying with the intent to incubate. When two or more birds lay in the same nest, one bird incubates the joint clutch; birds excluded once and continuing to lay may incubate a partial clutch, or another joint clutch, or be excluded again. Birds that have been excluded from incubation twice may "dump" one or two eggs that they cannot resorb, as a last resort. The relative costs and benefits of various scenarios are reviewed.
10.2307/3676573|Variation in egg size of a population of the Hooded Crow Corvus corone cornix was studied at Trondheim in Central Norway, during the period 1979-1982. No significant differences in egg volume were found neither from one year to another nor within different sized clutches, nor with laying date. The hatchability of small sized eggs and of eggs laid late in the laying order was lower than that of large sized eggs and of eggs laid early in the laying order. For all clutch sizes, a decrease in egg volume was found with increasing order of laying. All the last laid eggs (n = 39) had a smaller volume than the mean for the same clutch. The relative size of the first laid eggs (deviation from the mean for the same clutch) decreased with increasing clutch size. A significant positive correlation existed between the body weight of the hatchling and the volume of the egg from which it hatched. Both male and female hatchlings hatched from eggs of similar size, and had roughly the same body weights at hatching.
10.2307/3676465|We compared local song dialect groupings in Corn Buntings Miliaria calandra recorded in 1977-79 with those recorded in 1985, paying particular attention to the location of boundaries between local dialects and details of song. The locations of boundaries between local dialects in 1985 were very similar to those of eight years previously. The number and broad pattern of song types within local dialects had not changed. However, 1985 songs had slightly more elements in their central portion. We discuss the significance of these patterns of constancy and change in this and other species.
27669756|We compare behavioural repertoires of breeding Circus cyaneus in a dense eastern Canadian population with published accounts of behaviours from other parts of North America and Europe. Canadian harriers exhibited behaviours previously unrecorded in North America, such as male and female mate rejection, increased courtship displays by polygynous vs monogamous males, a decline in the number and intensity of courtship displays with declining vole Microtus pennsylvanicus abundance, male initiation of nest building, parent-offspring recognition, and a high incidence of late nestling starvation due to male desertion. Populations in Canada and Orkney differed in the timing and cause of chick starvation and in the extent to which adult and immature males and females displayed. Other apparent differences between populations, such as male nest building, male nest visitation, male egg guarding and the advantage of nest defence, reflect alternative interpretations of similar behaviours. We conclude that behavioural and ecological differences between harriers on the two continents are negligible, and that their inclusion as one full species is well founded.
10.2307/3676710|Foraging Two-barred Crossbills Loxia leucoptera remove seeds first from the basal scales of tamarack cones, then proceed to the distal end. Seeds, however, are often left in the distal-most scales. To determine if crossbill cone-leaving behaviour maximized intake rates, seed kernels were weighed from the different cone scales and the foraging behaviour of crossbills was quantified. Crossbills usually removed seeds from one scale more than that which would have maximized intake rates. Nevertheless, this behaviour provided an intake rate that nearly equaled the maximum. Crossbills appear to use a cone-leaving rule of "leave when kernel mass declines".
10.2307/3676868|Four major groups of Willow Warblers are distinguishable during spring migration at Ottenby, SE Sweden. South Scandinavian males (sm) and females (sf), North Scandinavian males (nm) and females (nf). Sm carry relatively more fat than both sf and nm, and nf carry more fat than sf and nm. Males have more pointed wings, but no wing shape difference was found between northern and southern populations. Morning trapping times differed between the sexes (males being caught earlier than females), in accordance with morphometric flight theory.
10.2307/3676775|The amount of time spent incubating during the laying period in relation to clutch size was measured in a captive Starling Sturnus vulgaris colony. Female Starlings had clutches of 5, 4 and 3 eggs and laid each of their eggs during the late morning hours (one <tex-math>$\text{egg}\ {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math>). Females laying 5 eggs (mean laying date 130), incubated 11% of the time on the second day of laying and incubation increased steadily to 80% of the time on the last day of the laying period. The daily incubation pattern of these females was very constant. During the first two days they only incubated during late morning. After laying the third egg they incubated also in the evening and from the next morning onwards, after laying egg 4, they incubated continuously. Females laying 4 (day 139) or 3 eggs (day 150) advanced both the incubation pattern and the total time incubating per day by one and two days, respectively. This was found not only for different females with different clutch sizes, but also for the same females laying clutches of different size. Therefore the amount of time Starlings spend incubating their first egg(s) is directly related to the final clutch size. Incubation development during the laying period seems to be preprogrammed. Late females with smaller clutches enter this time program later than early females with larger clutches, so that on their last eggs all females have a corresponding incubation pattern and incubate the same amount of time. These data are discussed in relation to Haftorn's (1985) proximate model for clutch size control in the Great Tit Parus major and Meijer et al.'s (1990) modified model for the European Kestrel Falco tinnunculus. Incubation during the laying period has consequences for the time and energy budgets of the female Starling and causes asynchronous hatching.
10.2307/3676304|Distances between nest-sites used successively within a breeding season were measured in a population of Stonechats. The frequencies and consequences of dispersing different distances were examined in relation to previous nesting success. Nest-predation tended to be greatest after moving far from the previous nest site, and was no higher after predation on the previous nest, but was low if many young had fledged. Nestling growth was significantly better at greater distances from the previous nest, if young had fledged from it. Birds moved farther, and were more likely to use different vegetation in which to nest, after previous predation than if success had been low for other reasons. After escaping predators, they moved farther, and were more likely to change vegetation, if more young had fledged from the previous nest. These results imply that birds adjust the placement of nests according to previous success, though great variation in dispersal distance remained unexplained by these tactics.
10.2307/3676205|The foraging niches in a passerine bird community in a grey alder forest in Central Norway (63N) were studied during the breeding seasons along four niche dimensions, viz. 'structural layer', 'tree species', 'foraging height' and 'horizontal position'. The Fringilla and Parus species were more frequently seen on the ground in late April and early May, compared to later in the season. Within the tree layer, pronounced seasonal and annual variation was particularly found within the 'tree species' dimension. Within the tree layer the species seemed most separated in the 'foraging height' dimension. Only weak and insignificant correlation coefficients were found between overlap values or niche breadth values in different dimension. Morphological similarity was not correlated with the degree of overlap in any foraging dimension. Similarly, positions in the morphological space did not predict the species' foraging niches. In the 'tree species' dimension a low degree of overlap with the rest of the bird species was associated with high niche breadth values, while an inverse relationship was found in the 'foraging height' dimension. As no linear trends were discernable in the three-dimensional space between niche breadth and mean niche overlap values, it is suggested that separation may be increased by either widening the range of explotation (e.g. Fringilla coelebs), or by concentrating effort on a more restricted part (e.g. Hippolais icterina).
10.2307/3676097|Body temperatures of Black-capped Chickadees Parus atricapillus acclimatized to winter in Fairbanks, Alaska (65N. lat.), measured during the night at ambient temperatures from 27 to -50C, averaged 38.5C, a decrease of 3C below daytime body temperature. Metabolic rates at night increased with decreasing ambient temperatures. No evidence of the degree of nocturnal hypothermia observed in Scandinavian or more temperate latitude parids was observed in these Alaskan birds.
10.2307/3676780|Food habits of three subpopulations of the Gyrfalcon Falco rusticolus were studied in coastal, lakeland and heathland habitats of NE-Iceland by analysis of 2,316 pellets collected from February 1984-July 1985. No coastal and lakeland Gyrfalcons traveled more than 7.5 km to reach areas with plenty of waterfowl or seabirds (average 3.4 km in winter). Heathland falcons traveled farther to reach equally rich areas for these kinds of prey, e.g. in winter 13-33 km (average 12.9 km). Rock Ptarmigan Lagopus mutus was the main prey for all Gyrfalcons constituting 61% of total pellet volume. Rock Ptarmigan was most important during the early phase of the breeding season (April-June) and in autumn and early winter (August-December). Factors determining high vulnerability in spring seem to be behaviour and coloration of males and in late summer, the large number of naive young. Importance of Rock Ptarmigan on heathland territories as measured by pellet volume ranged from 61-100% for the different collection periods, and 8-85% and 13-91% on coastal and lakeland territories respectively. Other prey groups of importance on heathland territories were waders (max. 12%) in summer and wood mouse Apodemus sylvaticus (max. 20%) and waterfowl (max. 20%) in winter. Lakeland Gyrfalcons increased their take of waterfowl (max. 56%) and waders (max. 13%) in summer and passerines (max. 19%) and wood mice (max. 43%) in winter. Coastal Gyrfalcons had the most variable diet: they increased their take of waterfowl (max. 42%) and waders (max. 21%) in summer and waterfowl (max. 68%) and alcids (max. 38%) in winter. Switching from Rock Ptarmigan to alternate prey involved in most cases a change of hunting habitat, from upland areas to wetland or coastal areas.
10.2307/3676038|To test the hypotheses that Tengmalm's Owl is 'nomadic', we examined Swedish ring recoveries of adults and juveniles marked during the breeding season. There was no clear difference in dispersal distance between adults and juveniles. In two cases, adults nested a few 100 m from the sites where they bred during one and two preceding years, respectively. There was one clear case of adult nomadism: an owl captured on the nest breed two years later 510 km away. This may be the longest distance recorded between two breeding sites in the same bird.
10.2307/3676127|A handy device for trans-illuminating eggs of passerine birds in the field is described. Recommendations are given for the interpretation of developmental stages of trans-illuminated eggs in order to decide if a clutch is complete. Special attention is paid to the first four days of the incubation period when the swelling of the yolk mass is easily registered providing information on the beginning of the incubation behaviour during the laying period, on the frequency of non-developing eggs, and on the date of laying onset.
10.2307/3676622|Male and female White-backed Woodpeckers differ in morphology in that males have longer bills than females and are also heavier. We found that this size dimorphism was accompanied by numerous differences in resource utilization pattern. Briefly, males foraged in larger trees than females and on thicker trunks and branches. Males more often used live trees than did females, and deep wood pecking as a foraging technique. We find it unlikely that bill size dimorphism has evolved to enable the sexes to utilize different foraging niches. Rather foraging differences are a consequence of size dimorphism, male dominance and/or interspecific competition.
10.2307/3676544|The song of male Redwings can be divided into two parts, an introductory section and a terminating section (twitter). A previous study found that the introductory section was sung throughout the breeding season, whereas the terminating section, or twitter, was sung more often and was of longer duration early in the breeding season. I carried out playback experiments to test whether the two parts of the song might communicate different motivational information in territorial defence. There was no difference in response of males to the two playback stimuli, introduction alone or complete song (introduction and twitter), early in the season. In response to the playback songs, however, the males primarily sang this section, suggesting that it contains a message to competitors. Later in the season the males responded more to complete songs than to the introduction alone. I suggest that the whole song may be used in territorial defence but that the terminating section may signal a state of increased aggression. The lack of difference in response early in the season might result from a generally higher aggressive level at this time.
10.2307/3676729|Information on size of natural breeding cavities and of clutch size in the Pied Flycatcher is presented. Natural nest holes were very variable in size and many were larger than normal nest boxes. Clutch size bore no relationship with cavity size in natural holes and was no larger in boxes than in tree holes.
10.2307/3676477|The Willow Tit and the Marsh Tit are sibling species and occupy largely different habitats in Central Sweden. While the Marsh Tit prefers deciduous woods, the Willow Tit mainly occupies coniferous forests. In the nearby land Islands the Marsh Tit is absent, presumably due to its lack of dispersal propensity, and there the Willow Tit was found to have expanded its use of deciduous habitats significantly. None of the other six species in the tit guild exhibited different habitat preferences in the two areas, which is taken to indicate that differences in habitat per se were not important. Instead, relaxed interspecific competition is a more likely explanation of the habitat expansion of the Willow Tit in allopatry. On the mainland we recorded interspecific hostility during the breeding season, but territories of the two species sometimes overlapped. Willow Tits have not evolved specific morphological adaptations to its more frequent use of deciduous trees in the land Islands, probably because also there most of its foraging takes place in coniferous trees. Furthermore, the Willow and Marsh Tits are so similar in their morphology that it is unlikely that morphological differences alone restrict their habitat utilization in central Sweden.
10.2307/3676164|This study of the Dippers is based on body weights of 286 males and 369 females captured once or more times during the seven winter seasons 1964/65-70/71. Sex determination was based on wing length, which previously had proved to be a reliable method. The difference between the mean body weights of the sexes was 10.8 grams and highly significant. The seasonal and diurnal differences of the means of the sexes varied between 9.2-11.8 grams. Both the sexes reached their lowest mean weights immediately after arrival at the wintering area and their highest weights just before their departure to the breeding territory. The body weights of males and females increased on an average of 4.2 and 3.7 grams respectively from sunrise to sunset each daytime.
10.2307/3675892|Line transects using estimators proposed by Yapp and Emlen are compared and discussed. The methods are applied to two study plots (approximately 70 resp. 46 ha) in southern Sweden, where 12 and 8 censuses, respectively, were carried out during four weeks in midwinter. The ratio variance/mean of the figures obtained increases multiplicatively with average flock size of the species. The figures may be approximated to a normal distribution for nine of eleven species. There is a rather good agreement between the estimates arrived at with the two methods.
10.2307/3676493|An earlier study showed that, during incubation, predation on Eider Somateria mollissima nests in gull colonies was lower than on nests elsewhere. Surprisingly, Eiders do not strongly favour nesting in gull colonies. One reason for this could be a high risk of nest predation in gull colonies during the Eider laying period, when gulls have not started laying and defending their own eggs. An experiment with artificial nests showed that a higher proportion of nests was preyed upon within than outside gull colonies during the Eider laying period. Hooded Crows Corvus corone often visited gull colonies and apparently preyed upon artificial nests at a higher rate within than outside colonies. These results help to explain the weak nesting association between Eiders and gulls. In ducks, strong nesting associations with larids have only been reported for species that start breeding later than or at the same time as the larids.
10.2307/3676214|When foraging on trunks and branches of dead or decaying spruce trees, it was found that the Great Spotted Woodpecker and Three-toed Woodpecker utilized different feeding strata during October-March. The trees in which the woodpeckers were observed foraging were divided into four approximately equal vertical zones (1=0-1/4, 2=1/4-2/4, 3=2/4-3/4, 4=3/4-4/4). The mean relative heights of the Great Spotted Woodpecker and the Threetoed Woodpecker were 3.5 and 2.0, respectively. The degree of overlapping in foraging heights between the species was greatest in October and March, while the most apparent stratification occurred in January.
10.2307/3676558|Blackbird females were hand-raised in the laboratory and made receptive to song stimulation by long-day conditions and estradiol injections. Playback experiments in an anechoic chamber comparing responses of the females to different conspecific songs and songs of foreign species indicate that females gain information about species identity from the conspecific songs. Not only the complete song seems to have a role in species recognition, but also each of its two components, the long-ranging motif part and the short-ranging twitter part, the latter suggesting an adaptation to a life in dense vegetation.
10.2307/3676434|I analyzed the factors determining the length of the predispersal period in the Spanish Imperial Eagle Aquila adalberti, using the information supplied by 21 radio-tagged young in Doana National Park (SW Spain) in 1986-1988. The average length of the predispersal period was 9.2 d. Urea and uric acid levels in blood, a measure of body condition, were significantly related to the length of this period. The results suggest that factors other than competition with adults, make young disperse as soon as possible. Similarities in the dispersal tendency between siblings from the same brood seem to be an effect of covariance with other factors linked to the nest than a genetically determined behaviour.
10.2307/3676893|In a South Swedish population of Dunlins, males were on average smaller than females. Differences were most pronounced in bill length and body mass. Males arrived at the breeding sites in spring on average 12 d earlier than females, with a tendency for large and long-billed females to arrive earlier than small and short-billed females. A significant positive correlation between date of arrival and start of egg-laying was found in females, but not in males. Previously mated pairs started egg-laying on average 4 d earlier than newly formed pairs. Disassortative mating in relation to size was found in new pairs, so that small and short-billed males, and large and long-billed females nested earlier than average-sized birds. A significant positive correlation was also found between female size and mean egg volume. To explain the observed patterns of mating and sexual size dimorphism, I suggest a combination of sexual and natural (ecological) selection. Small size in males may be energetically advantageous during aerial display and male parental care. Short bills may be selected for when males are feeding in terrestrial habitats during brood-rearing. In females, selection for large size and long bill is probably associated with the production of larger eggs and more efficient feeding in marine littoral habitats, respectively. Selection may also favour large females in intra-sexual competition for mates and food resources.
10.2307/3676198|Plumages of males and females of the Pied Wheatear Oenanthe p. pleschanka (Lepechin, 1770) and the Cyprus Pied Whetear O. p. cypriaca (Homeyer, 1884) are described. Special attention is paid to females of nominate pleschanka. In contrast to the nominate race, cypriaca shows almost no sexual dimorphism in plumage. Several measurements show significant differences between both subspecies; in length of wing there is no overlap in measurements. Males of cypriaca have on the average a larger tail than females, but there is considerable overlap in individual measurements. Biometrical sex differences in nominate pleschanka are not the same for each population. The songs of pleschanka and cypriaca are quite unlike each other. We conclude that it is best to consider cypriaca a separate species.
10.2307/3676003|The winter foraging ecology and habitat use of four sympatric corvid species on agricultural land is described. Overlap in habitat use was mostly high (range = 0.50-0.81). Most individuals of each species occurred on grassland, especially permanent pasture where invertebrate populations were highest. Overlap in intake rates of different prey types and sizes from above or beneath the soil surface, and from animal dung or surface debris, was low (range = 0.15-0.41), except between Jackdaws and Magpies (0.72). Discriminant analysis indicated significant differences in foraging behaviour between species, but Magpies retained little unique niche space.
10.2307/3676332|Warblers trapped in autumn in Denmark and transported out or down their migratory routes showed compensatory reactions directed towards the vicinity of the trapping area. The Emlen funnel technique was used, and the circular statistics follow Batschelet (1965). The directed activities could be considered as bicoordinate navigation towards points (goal areas) at the migratory route. In the course of the migration season the appropriate point probably shifts in a programmed manner down the route. Birds which were kept in a light/dark shifted rhythm did not react to the activity shift as a geographical displacement.
10.2307/3676575|This study is based on an analysis of nest-histories of 574 Wood Warbler nests found in three types of climax stands, viz. ash-alder, oak-hornbeam and coniferous, in Bialowieza National Park, E Poland, in 1976-1979. The nests were built on the ground, usually in shaded places. As a rule they were hidden among low herb vegetation or wedged under branches lying on the ground. The first females arrived between 2 and 7 May in different years, while the first eggs were laid between 8 and 18 May. The majority of clutches were laid within a fortnight of the first eggs laid in the population. On average breeding started earliest in the oakhornbeam and latest in the coniferous habitat. Few females attempted second broods. First clutches usually contained 6-7 eggs. The average clutch size varied between years, declined over the season, and was highest in the most densely populated oakhornbeam stands. The birds produced smaller clutches than the number of young which could be reared. It is suggested that variation in clutch size is an adaptation to changing food availability and variation in predation pressure, and that the maximum clutch size is limited by the size of the nests as well as by trade-offs between the amount of investment in one breeding attempt and the chances to reproduce again. On an average over 70% of nests were lost, one of the highest figures recorded in open nesting birds of the temperate zone. Predators were responsible for over 80% of the losses. Nests with young were four times more likely to be predated than nests with eggs. Predation rates were independent of brood size, but late nests had higher rates of predation. The losses were lowest in the ash-alder stands and highest in the coniferous stands. Due to heavy predation, the yearly production of young per female was scarcely one third of the potential production. Varying predation rates were a main factor responsible for variation in production between years and habitats. Mortality of adults in the breeding season was estimated at 4.3% month<sup>-1</sup> for females and 4.5% month<sup>-1</sup> for males.
10.2307/3676195|The quality of the territory has been suggested to effect breeding success and adult survival in Magpies Pica pica. Magpie territories were arbitrarily divided into three groups, viz. I (territories occupied for a single year), II (territories occupied for 2-7 yr), and III (territories occupied for 8-10 yr during the period 1972-1981). Preferred territories (class III) were composed of preferred feeding habitats. 'Tree-top sitting' took place in high quality territories more often than in low quality ones. Territory intrusions were common in high quality territories. Also 'ceremonial gatherings' occurred most frequently in these territories. Carrion Crows Corvus corone cornix, being common nest predators, occurred most commonly in medium quality territories. Nests were placed higher, although at the same relative height, in high quality territories compared to low quality ones. Nests in class I territories were initiated later than those in class II-III territories. Nearly all nests in high quality territories were placed near buildings. Nest failure was commonest in low quality territories. Replacement nests were built most often in high quality territories. In those territories Magpies spent less time feeding, pecked at a lower and more uniform rate when feeding and moved at a higher speed when feeding compared to low territory quality birds. Magpies flow continuously from low quality to high quality territories as their experience allows them to refill empty spaces arising from death or divorce in other Magpie pairs.
10.2307/3675987|Communities of birds breeding on the Krunnit Islands (northern Gulf of Bothnia) were censused over 20 summers between 1939-72. Four types of islands (A-D), paralleling stages in a primary succession sere, can be distinguished on botanical criteria. In 1936, only the wooded islands (D) had characteristic bird communities, but after protection also the populations on the younger islands recovered. The ornithological and botanical classifications of the islands agree in the latter half of the period. Sterna paradisaea dominates on the boulder skerries (A), Larus fuscus on the grassy skerries (B), L. canus on the grassy islands (C), but no sea-bird species is typical of D. Bird density ranges from 0.5 pairs/ha (D) to 129 p/ha (A), biomass from 0.2 kg/ha (D) to 75 kg/ha (B), and metabolic rate of existence in June from 70 (D) to 26,000 kcal/day  ha (B). Diversity (H) increases with the successional stage of the island from 0.99 to 3.15.
10.2307/3675948|Factors affecting nest success in the Mallard and Tufted duck were studied at one site in 1980 and two sites in 1981 in North Buckinghamshire. Carrion Crows, Magpies and rats were the main predators of clutches, destroying them mainly during the laying period. The proportion of Mallard nests destroyed by predators increased as the minimum height of vegetation around the nest declined. Nests of both species were more successful on islands than those on the mainland and island nests were located in taller vegetation. Generally the closer a Tufted Duck nest was to another nest the greater was the risk of predation. In 1981 nests of both species at one site suffered heavier clutch predation than those at the other and were located in significantly shorter vegetation and were closer together. Tufted Duck nests were more successful than those of Mallard, they bred approximately five weeks later, taking advantage of taller vegetation which was conducive to high nest success.
10.2307/3676790|An individually marked population of the Nuthatch Sitta europaea asiatica was followed during 1986-1990 in the southern part of the Magadan region, Northeastern Siberia. As in European populations of the species, adult Nuthatches were strictly sedentary and lived their lives in permanent territories. Nuthatch territories in Siberia were much larger (averaging 30.2 ha) than those in Europe (about 2-10 ha). Pairs persisted as long as both partners were alive. On average, 50.8% of the pairs survived from one breeding season to the next, a figure very similar to those given for European populations. Young Nuthatches dispersed widely after becoming independent and birds which were born in the study plot were never found later. In contrast to Europe where juveniles always establish their own territories, juveniles in Siberia settled inside the territories of old birds in autumn (usually 1-2 juveniles in the territory of an adult pair). Inside the adults' territory, the juveniles lived in pairs or alone, but never in flocks. Their only chance to become breeders was to replace an adult that died. The first-settled juveniles had the best chance to obtain breeding status. Therefore, although the social organization of the European and Siberian subspecies of S. europaea are similar in many ways, there is a dramatic difference in the way that juveniles establish their territories.
10.2307/3676631|The behaviour and social structure of Svalbard Rock Ptarmigan were studied by direct observation, trapping, weighing, marking, and telemetry from August 1980 to August 1982 on five breeding areas around Ny-lesund. The first cocks arrived there in late March. Until mid April territorial cocks were solitary and hostile towards both cocks and hens. Pairs formed from late April. Mate guarding was conspicuous. Pairs were monogamous until hens started to incubate. Later, promiscuity was common. Territorial cocks banded in 1981 were all found on the same territory in 1982. Some hens changed cock and territory but always within the same breeding area. Birds banded as chicks were never recovered as breeding birds on the area where they were banded.
10.2307/3676764|During spring in 1982 and 1983, 28 male Redwings Turdus iliacus were observed at Songli in Central Norway, from the time of arrival until most had completed reproduction. Function of song was studied by recording changes in singing rate and song structure throughout the breeding season. The singing rate of breeding males decreased significantly when egg-laying started, indicating that song might function in mate attraction and mate retention. Singing rate of individual males correlated positively with the number of simultaneously singing males, which suggests that the song may also function in competition between males. The seasonal variation of the introductory section of the song was negligible, whereas the terminating section became shorter after egg-laying or was omitted altogether.
10.2307/3676752|In foraging groups in the Long Island Sound area of the eastern United States, Roseate Terns Sterna dougalli plunged for longer periods and from greater heights than did Common Terns Sterna hirundo. Roseate Terns were rarer than expected in dense feeding groups where they tended to occur at the peripheries but they were more common than expected in more dispersed groups. Roseates were also more successful per plunge than were Common Terns in dispersed groups. The species appeared to partition food on the basis of patchiness: Common Terns were more successful in large groups over presumably larger patches of prey while Roseate Terns had more success in smaller groups feeding on more dispersed prey.
10.2307/3676431|The Crested Lark Galerida cristata has a much wider geographical range than that of the Desert Lark Ammomanes deserti. Whereas the latter is strictly a desert species, the former inhabits both desert and non desert regions. We measured their niche breadths in an area of sympatry in the Negev desert, along food and habitat dimensions: seed size, and allocation of foraging time to each habitat. Both species share most seed species they consume and forage in the same habitats. But, on both niche dimensions the niches were broader, and the temporal fluctuations in the breadths were higher for the Crested Lark than for the Desert Lark.
10.2307/3675906|Food supply, competitor density, feeding technique and feeding places of Willow Warblers were studied on small islands in Lake Mckeln, southern Sweden and in similar habitats on the mainland nearby. Small insects and spiders were more abundant than larger specimens. Abundance decreased with increasing distance from ground and increased from May to June. Generally the abundance of insects was slightly higher on the mainland than on islands. This was expecially clear for small (< 6 mm) insects. Insects over 12 mm long were common in June, but not recorded in May. From 1976 to 1978 the combined bird population density did not decline on the mainland but decreased by about 24% on the islands. In the Willow Warbler the decline was 51% on the islands but only 10% on the mainland. The density of Willow Warblers was highest on island plots in 1976, but the islands may provide suboptimal habitats for this species. A slight niche expansion, more frequent feeding at and near the trunk, was found for the Willow Warblers on the islands compared with the mainland. Food catching technique remained unchanged.
10.2307/3676154|Annual cycles in plasma levels of luteinizing hormone (LH), testosterone and dihydrotestosterone (DHT), as well as seasonal changes in the ultrastructure of Leydig cells, were studies in free-living adult and juvenile male Great Tits from south-west Sweden. Special attention was paid to the autumn/winter period. Adult males have very few Leydig cells during the autumn, whereas such cells occur in large numbers in the testes of juvenile Great Tits. At the end of the autumn period there is an increase in plasma levels of LH, but not in testosterone, in both age groups. This increase is accompanied by changes in number and ultrastructure of the Leydig cells, especially in adults, so that there is finally no longer any differences between adults and juveniles. For both age groups the ultrastructure of the Leydig cells indicate maximal activity during the winter period, but testosterone levels remain basal. There are no differences in plasma levels of testosterone or LH between juvenile and adult males during the autumn/winter period, except during September when the plasma concentrations of these hormones are significantly higher in juveniles. There is a transitory increase, to maximal values for the year, in plasma levels of LH and testosterone in March. Concomitant with this increase the ultrastructure of the Leydig cells change. The breeding period is characterized by moderate plasma levels of testosterone and LH. There is a trend for higher levels of LH, but not for testosterone, in June. Plasma levels of both hormones are down to basal in July. When testes regress in July, most Leydig cells are in a state of dissolution. Plasma levels of DHT did not show an annual cycle. Ecological and behavioural implications of the results are discussed.
10.2307/3675873|The Goldcrest Regulus regulus in Scandinavia frequently rears two broods which to some extent overlap in time. Both sexes take part in nest-building and in feeding the young, while incubation of the eggs and brooding the featherless young are entirely left to the female (who is not fed by the male). The male may start building the second nest within the territory long before the first clutch has hatched. When the female starts to incubate the second clutch, the male practically alone is responsible for feeding the young of the initial brood, first as nestlings and thereafter as fledglings, until they become independent. As soon as this brood has left the territory, the male then takes his full share in feeding the young in the second nest. Thus, an elaborate division of labour between the mates throughout the breeding period has been established.
10.2307/3676433|We studied feeding behaviour of hen Willow Ptarmigan moulting from white winter plumage to pigmented summer plumage during the progress of snow melting. While still mostly white, the hens usually sat on the snow while feeding on protruding willow and dwarf birch; when partly pigmented on the back, they preferred the border zone between snow and bare ground; and when mostly pigmented they fed exclusively on bare ground. When, due to snow thaw, the hens could no longer reach the protein rich willow, they fed on the protein poor but lower dwarf birch. The results suggest that the hens' feeding strategy during snow melting is a compromise between food quality and optimal camouflage.
10.2307/3676506|The ecology of autumn migrating Bluethroats Luscinia s. svecica of different age and sex classes was investigated at a stopover site in eastern Sweden, and data were used to test predictions from a model for optimal bird migration. Adults and juveniles migrated simultaneously but the migration period of adults was more concentrated. Adults carried more fat and stopped over for a shorter time than juveniles. In contrast to juveniles, adults did not lose mass after arrival and started accumulating fat earlier than juveniles. Adult birds can thus be regarded as more efficient "migrators", a situation consistent with recent data showing that adult Bluethroats migrate at a higher speed than juveniles. Among juveniles, females (being smaller than males) arrived on average three days before males. If females have lower resource-holding potentials than males, the time difference could be due to an allocation of the migration time by females in order to avoid competition. However, no differences in fat deposition patterns or stopover times were found between sexes. The stopover data at least partly support the time-minimization model for optimal bird migration.
10.2307/3676129|During territorial combats the songs of the Willow Warbler male change in a number of parameters from "spontaneous" singing heard in undisturbed situations. The song become shorter, muter and somewhat lower pitched. There is also heard a special type of song (the A-song) which is characterized by the introduction of a special syllable type in the beginning of each song. Although there is a considerable inter-individual variation between songs recorded both in undisturbed and agonistic situations the A-song is shared between all studied territorial males (n = 6). There is also a close temporal connection between A-song and overt attack behaviour from the singer indicating that A-song transmit a message of an increased likelihood that the singer will attack his opponent. During a series of play-back trials when territorial males were exposed either to recordings of 'spontaneous" song types or A-songs there was a marked tendency to approach the speaker as a response to spontaneous songs while A-songs instead evoked tendencies to withdraw. Thus, a test male responds to A-song and other song types in a manner which indicates that the message of an increased likelihood of an attack, following the former has been received.
10.2307/3676624|Great Tits Parus major and Blue Tits P. caeruleus use nest-boxes for roosting in winter. In our study area large-holed boxes which can be used by both Great and Blue Tit, and small-holed boxes which can only be used by the smaller Blue Tit, are available. Most Blue Tits are found roosting in the small-holed boxes. An aviary experiment showed that in the absence of Great Tits, Blue Tits prefer large-holed boxes. Over half of the Blue Tits changed to a small-holed box in the presence of a Great Tit. It is concluded that Blue Tits are forced to use the small-holed nest-boxes, because they are kept out of the large-holed ones by the dominant Great Tit.
10.2307/3676359|The despotic distribution described by Fretwell and Lucas (1970) and the ideal free distribution of individuals differing in competitive ability (Parker and Sutherland 1986) were applied to the evolution of migration patterns. In both theories, dominant individuals monopolize the best resources but dominance is mediated by prior occupancy in the former and by body size in the latter. Additional parameters used were latitudinal suitability gradients for both breeding and wintering, and costs of migration between sites. When migration costs are high, leap-frog migration is the most likely pattern to develop. Chain migration develops when either of two intricate conditions are fulfilled: (1) Both the breeding and the wintering suitability gradients increase towards the north and dominance is due to body size. (2) Breeding suitability increases towards the north and wintering suitability towards the south and dominance is due to prior occupancy. Under special circumstances, no stable pattern is likely to develop.
10.2307/3676029|The sex-ratio of diving ducks during the non-breeding season was studied in southernmost Sweden in 1959-69. Differences in sex-ratio between flocks of different sizes and between different parts of a locality were found in Aythya fuligula and Bucephala clangula. Seasonal variations in sex-ratio were found in all species. Autumn migration was initiated by males in A. fuligula and A. ferina, and by females and immature birds in B. clangula, Mergus merganser and M. albellus. In all these species males initiated spring migration and dominated over the females in most Swedish winter localities. In A. marila the percentage of males increased from autumn to spring, whereas the opposite was found in Clangula hyemalis.
10.2307/3676007|Singing and territorial behaviour were studied in a small population of Wood Warblers in central Sweden. The males' singing activity and length of song phrases decreased significantly after mating. Once the mate was pre-occupied with egg laying and incubation, the male established a second territory elsewhere. Though singing intensively in their secondary territories, males returned frequently to their females in the primary territories. The singing behaviour of a mated male in his secondary territory was similar to that shown by an unmated male in a primary territory. When the eggs hatched, the male stayed with the female and helped feeding the young. In two cases, polyterritoriality led to polygyny. However, both males eventually concentrated their time on the female whose eggs hatched first and deserted the other. Polyterritoriality in the Wood Warbler is rarely observed elsewhere. Possible reasons why all the males in this study were polyterritorial are discussed.
10.2307/3676438|Little is known about the ecological mechanisms that maintain the parapatric ranges and narrow areas of hybridization in the Carrion Crow Corvus c. corone and Hooded Crow Corvus corone cornix. The winter ecology of parental populations and of hybrids was studied in an area of intergradation in NW-Italy. Carrion Crows and Hooded Crows showed sharply different foraging habitat preferences. The former selected pastures and meadows whereas the latter selected maize stubbles. The habitat selected by the two morphs corresponded to those prevailing in the areas of allopatry adjacent to the hybrid zone. Hybrids were less selective than the parental populations. Each of the parental morphs showed a significant tendency to avoid heterotypic flocks. It is concluded that the adaptation to different foraging habitats probably contributes to the maintenance of parapatric distributions by the parental populations and that hybrids may be better adapted to live in the hybrid zone. The assortative composition of the flocks could indicate the existence of pre-mating isolating mechanisms between the crow morphs.
10.2307/3676021|The shell thickness of recent and old eggs, and of shell fragments, from 32 clutches of Peregrines were measured to investigate a possible shellthinning effect during the period following the use of DDT in north-western Europe from 1947 on. The pesticide contents of three recent eggs were also determined. The eggshells of the post-1947 sample were on average 19-23% thinner than the older eggs, depending upon the measuring method used. Up to 1000 ppm of DDTs and PCBs were found in the recent eggs, and one egg also contained 280 ppm dieldrin (values on a lipid basis). These results accord in general with the previously-published data for other Fennoscandian populations of Peregrines, and, at least partly, explain the substantial reduction in numbers of the Norwegian breeding population observed during the past few decades. A significant positive correlation was found between shell thickness and brood size.
10.2307/3676881|Two main questions are discussed: (1) the eastern limit of Dunlin Calidris alpina populations migrating through the Baltic and (2) migration between the Baltic and the Mediterranean/Black Sea. Ringing and moult data show that some Dunlins migrating to the Baltic orignate from more easterly regions than previously presumed. Many Dunlins migrating in autumn through the Baltic are in active moult. Some of them probably start their moult while breeding and originate from areas east of the Urals. These birds show some easily recognized plumage patterns: their new median coverts (usually only some of them) are of "adult buff" type. This is characteristic of Central and Eastern Siberia populations which start moulting very early, while still on their breeding grounds. Ringing data show that these birds winter in western Europe as well as in the Mediterranean. Some Dunlins from the Baltic migrate in autumn in a SE direction - to the Mediterranean and the Black Sea regions. The origin of these birds is not known. The SE direction may be used also by Polish breeding schinzii. Some Dunlins of the sub-species alpina, ringed in the Baltic in autumn, are controlled in spring at the Black Sea; in autumn they seem to migrate along a more northern route - through the Baltic, while in spring they choose a more southern route - through the Black Sea (loop migration).
10.2307/3676176|As part of a study of long-term population changes and their possible causes, about 100 Osprey nests in six areas in southern and central Sweden were investigated twice annually during the period 1971-73. This paper reports on population status and reproductive success and discusses some factors influencing the breeding of the Osprey. Over the census period there was no significant change in the size of the population. The mean clutch size was about 2.88, the mean number of young hatched was calculated as 1.80, and the mean number of young surviving to the age of 4-5 weeks was 1.48. (This figure is used to express the reproductive success in the active nests.) A comparison with figures on brood sizes selected from bird-ringing data indicates a decrease in reproductive success since 1947.
10.2307/3676067|Weights and fat levels in body and liver in six Lapwings and six Oystercatchers starved to death during a cold spell in spring were investigated. Compared with control groups the starved Lapwings and Oystercatchers had 46 and 38% lower total weights respectively. Fat-free dry weights were 45 and 35% lower whereas body fat was drastically reduced by 92 and 91% in the starved groups. Proportional water content was remarkably constant, 71-72% in both species and in normal as well as starved birds. There was an appreciable reduction of dry liver mass which only to a minor part depended on a depletion of liver fat. The reduction of total fat-free dry body is supposed to depend mainly on a mobilization of muscle protein as an energy source when the fat depots are depleted. The reduction of liver dry mass is partly unexplained. It is inferred that such drastic emaciation in birds is uncompatible with life even if environmental conditions are changed before the death of the birds.
10.2307/3675884|The different resting postures of the Mallard were identified and studied in relation to weather. It was found that the weather highly affected the frequencies of the different postures. On overcast days, in summer and in winter with frost, a lying posture with the beak behind the wing was preferred. In summer, the presence of the sun inhibited the tendency to tuck the beak behind the wing. The standing postures were recorded with very high frequencies during precipitation and thaw. On calm, clear days the Mallards preferred to orientate with respect to the sun. Further, a posture, which can be interpreted as sunbathing, is described.
10.2307/3676661|Corticosterone (B) may play a direct role in the promotion of feeding behavior under conditions of nutritional stress. However, effects of exogenous B and nutritional stress in passerines indicate a complex relationship of fed state, perceived or anticipated nutritional stress, and previous history. In a series of investigations on caged White-crowned Zonotrichia leucophrys and Song Sparrows Z. melodia, foraging behaviors and feeding rates were unaffected by exogenous B in fed birds. When food was returned, birds implanted with B refed for longer and with greater intensity following the 24 hour fast. Additionally, B-implanted birds showed lower activity (perch hopping) than controls when fed ad libitum, but when fasted this trend reversed with B-implanted birds showing increased activity and apparent escape behavior. In a second study, small flocks of Pine Siskins Carduelis pinus and Dark-eyed Juncos Junco hyemalis held in aviaries and fasted for 24 hours had higher plasma levels of B than similar flocks that had been allowed to refeed for 1 hour after fasting. However, the highest levels of B in fasted birds were still lower than in free-living conspecifics exposed to capture stress. This low amplitude modulation of plasma B levels in relation to fed state was corroborated by results from free-living Pine Siskins and Lapland Longspurs Calcarius lapponicus captured during snow storms. In spite of unusually high feeding intensities during the storm, individuals of only some Pine Siskins and no Lapland Longspurs had elevated circulating levels of B. In the latter species, serial samples revealed very high levels of B within 15 minutes of capture suggesting enhanced adrenal secretory activity as a result of the storm. Finally, in White-crowned Sparrows, exogenous B substantially reduced overnight metabolic expenditure by reducing the frequency and amplitude of arousal bouts during the night. This suggested a possible energy savings effect of B during the hours when foraging was impossible and, possibly, insurance that the individual will retain sufficient resources to seek food the following day. Taken together, our data suggest that B may be important for initiation of food-searching during periods of food deprivation. Only small increases in B secretion appear to be required thus facilitating a rapid return to homeostasis after food is located. Although under prolonged nutritional stress the basal levels of B remained low, adrenal potential to secrete B in response to further stress increased dramatically.
10.2307/3676197|The frequency distributions of Bullfinch Pyrrhula pyrrhula groups of different size and composition were determined over two successive years. From October to February singletons were the commonest group category. In March and April the modal group size was two, even-numbered groups with equal representation of the sexes were commoner and odd-numbered groups and those with unequal sex representation were rarer than expected. Agonistic encounters occurred at a higher rate in the larger groups but were higher than expected in groups of three and in groups with supernumerary males. Males initiated more agonistic encounters than females and these were almost exclusively directed at other males. Courtship was commoner in groups of three than in pairs, and less frequent in other group sizes. These results are discussed with reference to the influence of social interactions on group size and composition and to the functional significance of aggression in Bullfinches.
10.2307/3676277|The rate of secondary succession in forest birds has been quantified on the basis of the Jaccard, Srensen, and Renkonen indices, and of an index derived from Shannon's measure of diversity. All indices give very similar results. In the Polish oak-hornbeam forest the rate of succession (TR) decreases monotonously with time, but in Finnish coniferous forests (spruce and pine) the TR curves have a peak after 5-25 years from the beginning. The climax characteristically has a turnover rate of less than 10 per cent from that of the initial stages. The logarithms of TR can be expressed satisfactorily as linear functions of time. This is probably not true of TR curves for primary succession, owing to a lengthy period of soil development in primary succession.
10.2307/3675880|Arthropods were the most important source of food for the investigated species during their spring migration. The species showed great flexibility with regard to different groups of prey in successive periods within the same migratory season, and from one year to the next. The overlap in composition of prey taken and in the size of the prey animals is calculated for the species. There was a large variation in the size of both overlaps from period to period within the same year (overlap in prey composition) and from year to year (overlap in prey composition and overlap in prey size). This variation is explained as arising from variations in intensity of interspecific competition. It is assumed that segregation into different prey groups during increased competition is due to segregation into different microhabitats and/or different types of foraging behaviour.
10.2307/3676382|We report an extra-pair copulation (EPC) in the Flammulated Owl Otus flammeolus, the first in strigiforms, and document 21 cases of extra-range movements (ERMs) in this species. Extra-range movements occurred throughout nesting with both sexes participating: males anytime during nesting and females only after their young fledged. Males appear to make ERMs to gain EPCs and later to evaluate resources and the status of males in other areas, whereas females may be assessing the success of nests in adjacent ranges to judge the quality of potential future mates.
10.2307/3676845|Huge numbers of Willow Warblers winter in East Africa, and at Lake Naivasha the Willow Warbler becomes the most abundant species in its guild; in some habitats half the individuals in the guild are Willow Warblers, and most likely such numbers influence the ecology and behaviour of the local species in the guild. In a four-month study restrictions/displacements in the presence, and releases in the absence, of Willow Warblers were observed in several of the local species. In the course of the autumn the Willow Warblers also changed their habitat distribution from groves to woodland, presumably because of interference from the numerous local birds in the grove-habitat. Shortly after arrival the habitat and microhabitat distributions (and foraging behaviour) of the Willow Warblers were almost identical to those of local species such as the Black-bellied Apalis. However, in the course of the autumn and winter clear divergences occurred between the two groups in several ecological and behavioural parameters.
10.2307/3676662|Ptarmigan Lagopus spp. inhabit arctic, subarctic and temperate alpine regions where winter is typically cold and snowy. Low ambient temperatures, however, have little effect on their energy budget. Ptarmigan have a highly insulative white winter plumage which contributes to a very low heat loss. They normally evade exposure to severe cold by roosting in the snow, where ambient temperature usually exceeds their lower critical temperature. Ptarmigan have a diurnal activity pattern and each day collect and store enough food in their crop-sack to last the long winter night. Their digestive system shows seasonal changes in length which apparently adapt the birds to a low quality winter diet. With the exception of high-arctic species, ptarmigan do not store substantial amounts of fat in the winter. The Svalbard Ptarmigan living at 77-80N prepare for winter by depositing large stores of fat (up to 35% of body mass; BM) in autumn. Concurrently there is a marked reduction in their daily energy expenditure which permits such fattening to occur despite the fact that food intake is simultaneously reduced.
10.2307/3676833|A comparison of density of fish (<20 cm) and production of "large" (halfgrown - fledged) Gavia arctica young in 24 oligotrophic lakes in southwestern Sweden revealed a negative relationship between the two variables. High abundance of aquatic insects, suitable as an alternative food to fish for the young, and a low risk of predation by Esox lucius are suggested as two, not mutually exclusive explanations for the higher production of young in lakes with a low density of fish.
10.2307/3676447|White Storks Ciconia ciconia parents were observed to kill their smaller chick in 9 out of 63 nests observed during a three-year study. Infanticidal parents were caring for larger broods and laid larger clutches than non-infanticidal birds. Males killed the chick in 8 out of 9 cases. Victims were born from the last-hatched egg in 4- and 5-egg clutches, they were the lightest in their brood and grew at lower rates than their nestmates during the days preceding their elimination. The last-hatched nestlings in 4-chick broods had lower pre-fledging survival rates than their elder sibs. Potential victims contributed a low fraction to parents' reproductive output, and 4-chick broods were especially costly to raise because parents provisioned them both more frequently and for longer nestling periods. Hence, the presence of an extra chick seems to lower the benefit/cost ratio to parents rearing a large brood once its elder siblings have hatched successfully. If nestlings do not compete aggressively for food, parents would be selected to eliminate the extra chick themselves. This hypothesis could provide an explanation for the existence of parental infanticide also in other species.
10.2307/3676362|We studied patterns of intraclutch egg size variation (profiles) in 53 clutches belonging to a population of Ardea purpurea breeding in the Ebro Delta (North-east Spain) during 1988 and 1989. The analytical method used (MANOVA of repeated measurements) is a substantial improvement relative to those used up to now, which are critically reviewed in the paper. We found no relationship between clutch size and profiles of intraclutch egg size variation. Only year affected profile variation. This is consistent with the view that profiles are outcomes of the interaction between physiological and environmental factors. We also assessed whether laying relatively small last eggs constitutes significant energy savings for females, concluding that the savings are irrelevant in relation to the females' estimated daily energy budgets. We also evaluated the influence of the size of the last-laid egg on the sibling mass hierarchy; its effect was insignificant compared with mass differences arising from asynchronous hatching. In our view, profiles should no longer be indiscriminately considered as adaptive.
10.2307/3676317|A 0.75 g implantable transmitter, suitable for deep body temperature measurements in small 10-20 g birds, is described. It is based on a wellknown blocking oscillator circuit, modern components, and combined with a novel packaging technique. This makes possible reliable temperature measurements to 0.2C accuracy over a 3 weeks period. Design information is given on both the transmitter and a suitable receiving system.
10.2307/3676562|The British wintering population of Wigeon Anas penelope has undergone major distribution changes in recent years, possibly caused by this species' requirement for long undisturbed feeding periods. Diurnal and nocturnal foraging time and intensity were measured in south-west Scotland. Daily energy expenditure was estimated from defecation rate and digestive efficiency, to be <tex-math>$630\ {\rm KJ}\ \text{bird}^{-1}\ {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math>. Wigeon should need to feed for about <tex-math>$14\ {\rm h}\ {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math> to meet this energy requirement. These results are compared with figures for other wildfowl species and their implications for the management of Wigeon stocks are discussed.
10.2307/3676339|The effect of behaviour on the T<sub> b</sub> of ptarmigan chicks was studied in captive and wild birds of different ages and at different ambient temperatures ( T<sub> a</sub>). Newly hatched chicks show inter-brood coordinated periods of brooding and browsing. During browsing T<sub> b</sub> decreases, during brooding it returns to normal. At T<sub> a</sub> from 7 to 10C the newly hatched chicks browse for about 2 min and are brooded for 15 to 30 min. At the end of browsing periods their T<sub> b</sub> average 37.1C, the lowest recorded value was 34.3C. Post browsing T<sub> b</sub> showed little variation with <tex-math>${\rm t}_{{\rm a}}$</tex-math> but increased with age. No hypothermia was found in 3 wk old chicks. The duration of each browsing period increased both with increasing T<sub> a</sub> and with age. If prevented from brooding, the chicks start to utter distress calls when their T<sub> b</sub> drops below 34C and they become lethargic at T<sub> b</sub> below 32C. The sensory input which triggers the chicks' return to brooding (the hen) appears to be the decreased T<sub> b</sub> rather than signals from the hen. T<sub> a</sub> near freezing appear to be a limiting factor for ptarmigan chicks during their first week of life, especially if the food supply is scarce.
10.2307/3676387|Flight display patterns and sound production of Pintail Snipe were studied on the Yamal Peninsula, USSR. Flight displays consisted of an undulating flight with alternating gliding and fluttering, and of 45 dives. Undulating flights had a silent initial phase, and a phase with simple, repeated vocal elements which culminated in a crescendo as the bird dived; as the bird pulled out a 6-syllable vocalization was heard, the latter resembling the vocalization of perched birds after flight display. In dives, fizzing tail-feather sounds were produced in addition to vocalization. Individual flight displays encircled areas about 200 m across. Neighbours often displayed simultaneously, performing non-undulating and non-diving parallel flights, either silently or with monotonously repeated vocal elements. Locations of displaying birds strongly suggested that flight displays function as territorial demarcation. No evidence was found for an aerial lek display, as claimed by some authors.
10.2307/3676588|Spruce Grouse Dendragapus canadensis were studied on a 247 ha main study area from 1965 to 1985 and on 31 additional areas (25.9-61.3 ha) in 1984 in southwestern Alberta. Numbers of cocks and/or hens were estimated annually with the use of transects, dogs, and/or playbacks of a hen's aggressive call. In addition, radio transmitters were placed on 28 cock and 65 hen Spruce Grouse on the main study area during 1982-84. Results showed that production (chicks per hen) and recruitment (yearling proportion) both declined between 1965 and 1985 (P < 0.05) on the main area when mean tree height increased from 7.3 m to 10.6 m. Radio-marked cock and hen Spruce Grouse selected habitats with relatively short trees, high tree cover, sparse shrub cover, and low densities of Populus spp., Pinus contorta and Picea glauca. Densities of territorial cock Spruce Grouse on 31 additional areas were negatively correlated with canopy height (P = 0.015). Overall, results indicated that densities of Spruce Grouse may be related to the successional stage of lodgepole pine forest.
10.2307/3676500|Male Bronzy Sunbirds Nectarinia kilimensis demonstrated a decrease in territoriality when fed a sucrose solution in addition to the nectar they foraged from flowers in their territories. They permitted more intruders in their territories, were slower to attack the intruders, and were absent from their territories more than when they had no added sucrose solution. This relaxation of territoriality was not due to either increased nectar in flowers or increased intruder pressure. Neither variable changed. Apparently the experience, or physiological consequences, of ingesting sucrose solution constituted the mechanism by which these birds assessed the economic defensibility of territoriality.
10.2307/3676244|A local population (22-27 pairs) of the Willow Warbler Phylloscopus trochilus L., studied in 1972-1978, was almost stable (18-20 pairs, CV = 5%) in the deciduous part of the study area, but more variable (4-7 pairs, CV = 28%) in the spruce-dominated part. The annual survival rate of the highly site-tenacious adult males was about 41%, but only 17% of the breeding females returned in the subsequent year. Adult mortality was low during the breeding season. The mean clutch size decreased after y = -0.060x + 6.51 eggs during the season (x is the day of the first egg, x = 0 on 31 May). Timing differences of the breeding season explained almost all annual differences of the mean clutch size. Nesting mortality was higher when the nestlings were 0-7 d old than during other phases of the whole nesting period, but this was due to human disturbance increasing the vulnerability of some nests to predation. No significant differences in the nesting success between years, parts of the study area, stage of the breeding season, or broods of different sizes were found. Estimated with the Mayfield method, only about 34% of the eggs laid produced fledglings, but probably more than 50% if the effect of disturbance is corrected for.
10.2307/3675952|The diets of Barn Owls and Long-eared Owls were compared during two consecutive nesting seasons in the Snake River Birds of Prey Area in southwestern Idaho, U.S.A. Over 12800 prey items were identified. Both species fed almost exclusively on small mammals. Microtus were the most important Barn Owl prey, while Long-eared Owls fed primarily on Peromyscus and heteromyid rodents. Nesting Barn Owls were more closely associated with irrigated agriculture than were Long-eared Owls. The feeding niche of Barn Owls was narrower than that of Long-eared Owls the first year but wider the next. Dietary overlap was 48.4% the first year and 60.9% the next. In comparison with other North American studies of sympatric Barn Owls and Long-eared Owls, the owls in our study had wider feeding niches and a reduced dietary overlap. Mean weights of Barn Owl prey were significantly heavier than those of Long-eared Owl prey thus Barn Owl prey weight distributions were shifted towards heavier prey than were those of Long-eared Owls. Differences in habitat use, food niche breadth and prey size are potentially important coexistence mechanisms.
10.2307/3676027|An Eider (Somateria mollissima (L.)) population of 3300 pairs was studied on West-Spitsbergen in 1964 and 1967. Onset of egg-laying depended on the breakage of ice-contact with mainland. Arctic Foxes destroyed almost all nests on the mainland and on islands where foxes remained. Predation on eggs varied according to the type of nesting community. The most favourable nest location was in colonies of Arctic Tern and in dense parts of dense Eider colonies, while the least favourable was in sparse parts of dense Eider colonies. Of all eggs laid, 27% hatched and 73% were consumed by predators. Glaucous Gull was the most important predator. The gull predation on young was heavy on land, but when broods reached water, predation was insignificant. Very soon after hatching, the females and the young migrated from the fiords to the open coast. Ecological and behavioural adaptations to predation and climate are discussed.
10.2307/3676494|The Icelandic- and Greenlandic-breeding Pink-footed Goose Anser brachyrhynchus population increased from 48,000 to 172,000 between 1960 and 1987. This growth can be explained by a survival rate of 89% based on observed breeding success. There is no evidence of density dependent factors operating on the population, and over 50% of the variance in an index of productivity was related to meteorological variables on the wintering grounds in spring prior to departure and on the nesting areas. The similar expansion in numbers of Greylag Geese A. anser nesting in Iceland and wintering in Britain from 30,000 in 1960 to 105,000 in 1987 showed survival rates of 91%, and over 70% of the variance in an index of breeding success could be explained by similar multiple regression models incorporating meteorological variables. Added evidence of the importance of meteorological variables, especially in Iceland, was provided by the close correlation between the annual productivity of the two species. With increasing population size, greater effort is required for adequate census, a problem compounded by the development of a wintering population in Ireland and a trend towards increasing numbers remaining in Iceland. The need for year-specific mortality estimates for use in full population models for both species is confirmed.
10.2307/3675934|The selection of islands by shorebirds was studied using 32 islands in an archipelago in SE Norway. The density of breeding birds, the substrates, the proportion of different vegetation types, and various topographic characteristics were studied. The most important factors influencing the selection of island type were area and height of the island and distance to the mainland. Three groups of species were separated on the basis of their selection of major habitat types: Sterna hirundo and S. paradisaea selected small boulder skerries in the outer archipelago; Larus canus, L. ridibundus and Haematopus ostralegus small grassy islands in the inner archipelago; and L. fuscus, L. argentatus, L. marinus, and Somateria mollissima vegetation-free islands in the outer archipelago. This pattern seems to be similar in most Fennoscandian archipelagos, probably because the species are widely distributed and the same ultimate factors influence their choice of island type. With one exception, competition for nest sites did not seem to play any important role in the habitat selection of the species studied.
10.2307/3676474|Effects of ambient temperature ( T<sub> a</sub>), and food availability and quality on growth and survival of Willow Ptarmigan chicks Lagopus l. lagopus were investigated in the laboratory. Under standard food conditions, growth increased with increasing T<sub> a</sub>. Only a persisting sub-zero T<sub> a</sub> affected survival. Because of changes in the chicks' behaviour a 67% reduction of food availability did not affect their growth and survival. When food was available only 22% of the time, however, all chicks died within 5 d after hatching, irrespective of T<sub> a</sub>. Even small reductions in food quality strongly affected growth and survival. Food intake was always correlated with body weight, irrespective of age, T<sub> a</sub>, and food quality. These results indicate that young ptarmigan chicks are unable to compensate for increased energy expenditure and reduced food quality with increased food intake. Therefore the availability of high quality food seems to be crucial for their growth and survival, while low ambient temperatures per se seem to be of little consequence.
10.2307/3676173|In line transect censuses of breeding birds, each observation belongs either to the 'main belt' (extending to 25 m on both sides of the observer) or to the 'supplementary belt'. Estimates of density have earlier been derived from the main belt data (method A). A recent method (B) makes it possible to use all data accumulated during a census; thus the available body of data becomes roughly five-fold under Finnish conditions. Method B is shown to reduce the variances of density estimates considerably if data from other areas can be used in the calculation of the so-called main belt percentages. If not, the methods are essentially similar. Method B, however, diminishes interobserver variation in the estimation of the distance of birds. An important quantity required by method B, k, can be estimated from a simple, practically unbiased formula, unless the number of observations made on the species in all censuses is very small. A sample size of 20 is found to be sufficient to produce small variances of k; smaller samples yield quite heterogeneous estimates for similar species. Reliability of line transect censuses can be enhanced by method B if the main belt percentages of a given species do not vary considerably in larger regions, or if the possible variation can be corrected by general formulae.
10.2307/3676412|Fifteen percent of Red-crested Pochard Netta rufina clutches were parasitized by Common Pochards Aythya ferina, and 22% by conspecifics. There were no differences in the characteristics of nesting sites and fates between parasitized and unparasitized nests. Nest diameter was greater in parasitized than in unparasitized nests, but no differences were found in nest depth according to nest category. Red-crested Pochard nests parasitized by conspecifics were initiated earlier than the other nest types. The clutch sizes of Red-crested Pochards were similar in nests parasitized by Common Pochards and in unparasitized nests. More Red-crested Pochard eggs were displaced outside the nest bowl in parasitized than in unparasitized nests. In addition, the proportion of incubated Red-crested Pochard eggs containing dead embryos was greater in parasitized than in unparasitized nests, probably because incubation was less efficient in parasitized nests. This was suggested by a significant relationship between nest diameter and hatching success in parasitized nests, as eggs distributed in fewer layers may receive better incubation. Females ejected more eggs from smaller than larger parasitized nests, probably to reduce the number of egg layers, thus improving the hatching success of the eggs remaining in the nest bowl.
10.2307/3676591|Felling experiments in core winter habitats of Capercaillie Tetrao urogallus were carried out at Varaldskogen in southeast Norway in 1985-1990. Careful thinning (resulting density <tex-math>$500-800\ \text{trees}\ {\rm ha}^{-1}$</tex-math>) did not affect later use by Capercaillie, whereas heavily thinned areas (<tex-math>$300-400\ \text{trees}\ {\rm ha}^{-1}$</tex-math>) were apparently abandoned by the birds. After removal of pine trees used for feeding in previous winters, the birds were mainly found in the neighbouring control area. Removal of spruce trees did not affect later use by hens, whereas cocks were mainly recorded in the control area where spruces were still present. Both structural features (tree density and tree species composition) and the presence of certain feeding trees seem to be of importance in winter habitat selection by Capercaillie.
10.2307/3676100|A second chick was introduced to 14 Razorbill nest sites on Skokholm, the day after the true chick hatched. All the sites were under boulders so twinned chicks could be weighed each day. Control observations were on nests with single chicks elsewhere on the island. Feeding rates and amount of food/nest-site/day were increased in pairs with twins, though twinned chicks grew significantly slower than the controls. In only two of the 14 sites did both chicks survive to fledging, giving a breeding productivity of 0.83 young/nest, compared with 0.64 for single chicks. Failure of the second chick was the result of unsuccessful competition for food (9 cases), and due to the apparent breakdown in the normal fledging behaviour of one of the adults (5 cases).
10.2307/3676722|Wing and tail feather moult in Barred Warblers was studied during three summers in SE Sweden. Birds arriving at their breeding grounds had on average 3.2-4.9 fresh secondaries and 3.9-9.4 fresh tail feathers, most certainly moulted in winter quarters. A few primaries and tertials had also been renewed. After breeding, normally all primaries and tertials were moulted. Primary moult duration was approximately 40 d for the individual and 60 d for the population. On average, only 0.7-1.4 secondaries were shed. No individuals renewed any winter-grown secondaries the following summer. Normally, 3-4 (mainly central) tail feathers were moulted. Thus, Barred Warblers moult primaries, tertials and central tail feathers in summer, and secondaries and a varying number of tertials and tail feathers in winter. The juvenile winter moult of secondaries shows that the seasonally divided flight feather moult is actively initiated already in the first winter; this is interpreted as a preparation for an early departure from breeding grounds the following summer. This moult pattern has not previously been documented in European passerines.
10.2307/3676527|In a 6 yr study of Willow Grouse diet, Vaccinium species dominated crop contents in autumn, together with Eriophorum species in spring. During winter, a diet dominated by shoots and catkins from mountain birch Betula pubescens var. tortuosa was eaten. In vitro digestibility, protein and ash levels of crop contents were 24-34% lower, while fibre content was 20% higher in winter than in the other seasons. Marked annual variation in the yield of mountain birch shoots and catkins were registered. The yield of shoots showed a gradual 4-yr increase followed by a marked decline in the following year. The percentage of different birch parts in late winter crop contents, and their chemical composition, varied significantly between years. Annual variation in winter diet composition as well as the fat level of grouse were to a large extent related to food abundance. Multiple regression equations showed that 92-96% of the observed variability in grouse fat levels was accounted for by the yield of mountain birch shoots and catkins. In spring, large annual variation in species composition of the food was related to variation in the in vitro digestibility. This food quality parameter was positively correlated with the size of the fat reserves of breeding females, which in turn was related to breeding success, indicating that maternal nutrition affects Willow Grouse reproduction. However, the two worst grouse breeding years were associated with declines in the populations of small mammals, so that predator "switching" may have contributed to the low grouse reproductive success. On the other hand, nutrition alone may have been responsible for the synchrony.
10.2307/3676677|Foraging behavior and diet of male and female Emerald Toucanets were studied at Monteverde, Costa Rica during both wet and dry seasons to determine if sexual dimorphism in bill morphology was related to differences in feeding behaviors between sexes. Based on analysis of museum specimens, bills of males averaged about 20% longer than those of females and the sexes could be reliably distinguished based on differences in bill morphology. Analysis of foraging sequences as first-order Markov chains revealed no differences between sexes or seasons in relative height, relative position in a plant, or foraging substrate. Regardless of season, both male and female toucanets foraged on twigs in outer portions of the mid-canopy. Seasonal differences existed in foraging height above ground, time spent in a single foraging bout, and distance moved between foraging bouts. However, the only within-season difference between sexes was that an average foraging bout during the dry season was longer for females than for males. Toucanets were observed eating fruits, mostly berries, and flowers from 47 species of plants. Fruits consumed in the wet season were larger and heavier than those consumed in the dry season, but no obvious within-season differences existed between sexes in size, color, or type of fruit consumed. We conclude that sexual dimorphism in bill morphology of Emerald Toucanets is not related to differences in foraging behavior or diet. Because of the nature of the resource, foraging-related sexual dimorphism should be rare in frugivorous birds.
10.2307/3676788|We analyzed variation in anti-predator behaviors by Willow Ptarmigan during the incubation period, in relation to several characteristics of the nest and parents. Defense behaviors were ranked in terms of the risk taken by parents, i.e. their proximity and conspicuousness to the predator. Defense levels by females increased with stage among first nests, were higher overall for first than for second nests (renests), increased with the age class of the pair, and correlated positively with the female's condition before incubation. Female clutch defense did not vary with clutch size or any measure of realized nesting success. Male defense levels and the distance males were initially found from the nest did not correlate with any features of the nest or parents, and male and female defense levels were not correlated. We suggest that defense by females is related to the value of the present brood, weighed against the female's body condition. Together with previous experiments, our results suggest that males do not fine-tune their level of defense to the potential contribution of offspring to the parents' reproductive success.
10.2307/3676860|Fisher (1930) argued that the overall parental expenditures on the male and on the female progeny are fixed at equality by natural selection. Taking the primary sex ratio, the parental costs of rearing young of each sex, and the possible existence of differential mortality rates into account, we have constructed a model to test this theory, using data obtained for the Rook Corvus frugilegus and other bird species to illustrate the properties of the model. The metabolic rates of nestling Rooks of both sexes at rest were dependent on their ages and body weights. The parent Rooks were found to have to invest about 10% more energy in a male than a female offspring during the period of parental care. Nevertheless, in support of Fisher's theory, an average pair of Rooks seems to invest an equal proportion of their energy resources in progeny of both sexes, because the total energy investment in their progeny by a population is evened out by a skewing in the mortality rate, whereby more male than female offspring die before independence and at a later age.
10.2307/3675958|Predation on nests in natural tree holes and in nest-boxes was studied in deciduous and mixed deciduous/coniferous forests at Stenbrohult, South Sweden, during 1972-1980. Predation was the major cause of total nest failure. Predation rates on nests in natural holes were higher than in nest-boxes for the Great Tit Parus major and the Pied Flycatcher Ficedula hypoleuca, while no significant difference was found for the Blue Tit Parus caeruleus and the Marsh Tit Parus palustris. In tits, wood-peckers were responsible for 17% of the predation on nests in natural cavities but for 48% on nests in boxes. Of nests that were preyed upon, woodpeckers destroyed a lower proportion of those of the Great than of those of the Blue Tit and the Marsh Tit. Minimum nest entrance widths were correlated with the size of the species. Depths of nesting holes were generally similar for different species, but the Blue Tit occupied shallower holes than did the Great Tit. The Starling Sturnus vulgaris, the Nuthatch Sitta europaea, and the Blue Tit occupied holes higher up in the trees than did the Great Tit and the Pied Flycatcher, in accordance with results of other studies. Contrary to what has been found in these, Marsh Tits nested very low. Total rates of nest-failure and predation were greater in low nests than in higher ones for the Starling, the Blue Tit, and the Marsh Tit. Differences between species in nest predation rates in natural holes could be explained by the vulnerability of the nest sites to predators. For the Starling, the Nuthatch and the Blue Tit average nest heights were negatively correlated with their respective population densities. For the Marsh Tit there was no such correlation, but its nest heights correlated negatively with the density of superior nest competitors. Independent nest preference and utilization data suggest that all four species that vary their nest heights in relation to density prefer to nest high. This indicates that there is competition for safe nest sites. The preference for nest sites higher up in the trees is adaptive and I suggest that predation is the factor that has selected for this preference. The Starling reduced the breeding success of the Nuthatch by taking over holes occupied by the latter. The proportion of Nuthatch nesting attempts that failed because of such interference was higher in high nests and when the population density of the Nuthatch was high.
10.2307/3676635|During a nine-year study of Capercaillie almost twice as many female as male chicks were reared, but there were no more hens than cocks in the adult population. Both the proportion of male chicks in late summer each year, and mean brood size, were related to the chicks' condition in July. Condition was related to the number of days with rain in early June, during and just after hatching. The breeding density of hens each year varied between 4.0 and <tex-math>$8.0\ {\rm km}^{-2}$</tex-math> but was related neither to their density in the previous year nor to the production of female chicks in the intervening summer. The best predictive model was simply that breeding densities would return to their mean each year. It was inferred that breeding densities were determined by density-dependent losses and gains involving emigration and immigration. Autumn densities of young and old birds were not related to breeding densities and breeding success, but were inversely related to the proportion of broods which disappeared, and probably emigrated, during the summer.
10.2307/3676087|To study the influence of the food supply in winter on populations of Great and Blue Tits, food was provided in study plots during two winters. After the first winter, Great Tits increased in the experimental plots whereas they decreased in control areas. After the second winter when beech mast was present, the number of Great Tits increased in all areas; the increase was no larger in the experimental plots than in the controls. A higher proportion of first year birds survived (or stayed) in the experimental woods than in a control. The Blue Tit population seemed unaffected by the provision experiment.
10.2307/3676151|Social behaviour of the Rook Corvus frugilegus was studied in a rookery near Trondheim, Central Norway, and related to parental investment. The female expands relatively little energy in reproduction, however, because she is dependent on her mate for food during most of the breeding season she may suffer a lot by mating with a qualitatively poor male. The results suggest that the rate at which the male feeds the female during the incubation period may affect the ability of the female to invest in her brood during its later stages, and thus the brood survival. Guarding the nest and the nestlings, also represents an important part of the parental care by the female. The reproductive costs of the male are more closely comparable with his energy expenditure in contrast to the female, because he invests a large part of his energy expenditure in the young.
10.2307/3676150|Promiscuity has been shown to occur among many colonial, monogamous, bird species, among them the Rook Corvus frugilegus. This paper show evidence that the male Rook achieves a selective advantage in adapting a mixed reproductive strategy, i.e. beside being strongly monogamous also is a promiscuous bird. However, the young females did copulate significantly more often with promiscuous males compared to the old females, at least during the period when the eggs had the greatest chance of becoming fertilized. The female Rook may, under certain circumstances, benefit by accepting several males as fathers for their offspring, and may therefore copulate willingly with some of the promiscuous males.
10.2307/3676466|Numbers of Common Terns Sterna hirundo foraging on butterfish Peprilus tricanthus commensal on jellyfish Cyanea capillata had a logistic relation with numbers of host jellyfish passing through a foraging area. Increasing numbers of terns did not affect success per dive, whereas turnover, the percentage of birds leaving the foraging area, was highest at intermediate numbers of terns and depressed at higher densities. These data suggest that competition occurred for access to available food and that increased numbers of birds depressed foraging success.
10.2307/3676068|Migrating Crane flocks were tracked over southern Sweden with a tracking radar and an aircraft. Air speeds and rates of climb in thermals were recorded, and behaviour was observed. The Cranes flew faster than soaring theory would predict, and also used varying amounts of muscle power on the interthermal glides. We estimate that their use of thermals and "partially powered" glides substantially reduced the energetic cost of flying unit distance, but at the expense of a reduction in average speed. The behaviour required for soaring is elaborate, and the selection pressures for and against it are discussed. Crane flocks were seen to split up and recombine in a way which suggested that they were not stable social units.
10.2307/3676468|"Fright moulting" has been recorded in several orders of birds and interpreted as a way of escaping a predator when already caught. Two observations suggest that the behaviour may have another function, viz. when an aerial predator chases the prey. By shedding body feathers in the air the bird creates a cloud behind it; this might confuse the predator in the same way as the ink of octopuses confuse their predators.
10.2307/3676211|A population of approx. 30 Whitethroats were studied during the breeding seasons in 1965 and 1967 to 1970 at Fgelsngsdalen near Lund in South Sweden (55 42N, 13 20E). Most territories were about 1 ha, a territory being the area within which all activities normally took place. For the habitat selection the following key factors were found: a) two or more conspicuous song posts, b) vegetation suitable for nestsite, and c) presence of singing Whitethroat males. In the beginning of the breeding season when the vegetation was low, the nests were built on the ground, but later above it. The location of the nests corresponded with the distribution of thorny bushes, nettles and the like.
10.2307/3675969|Breeding land bird communities of two islands in the land archipelago were studied. On Gsholmen (14 ha) a one-visit census covered the whole island, while on Bockholm (38 ha) two line transect censuses were made through the island and conversion coefficients were used to derive estimates of total numbers. The results were compared with those of mapping censuses. The proportion of breeding species observed in the one-visit censuses was 89% on Gsholmen and 88% on Bockholm; the percentages agree with theoretical expectations derived by rarefaction. On Gsholmen, 70% of the breeding pairs were observed in the one-visit census. On Bockholm, the estimate of the total density was 95% of the mapping result; the high apparent efficiency was probably a consequence of a biased distribution of habitats along the transects. Shannon's diversity, rarefaction curves, and the species-abundance distributions derived from the logseries model were similar in both censuses on both islands. The conclusion was drawn that one-visit censuses are adequate for quantitative comparisons of community parameters of island bird communities. A special problem is posed by surplus species (and individuals), either visitors from neighbouring islands or non-breeding individuals. The possible existence of transients in the observation data of one-visit censuses must be taken into account in interpreting the results.
10.2307/3676899|The mass gain and the incidence of starvation of nestling Wheatears Oenanthe oenanthe L. were recorded in two East Swedish study areas. Some broods were manipulated. A rough estimate of the degree of hatching asynchrony was derived from the number of daily visits between hatching of the first and last chicks of the brood. Mass gain in 23 broods was fitted to a logistic equation and the growth rate (K=0.50), asymptote (A=22.3 g) and time to reach the inflection point (<tex-math>${\rm t}_{50}=5.4$</tex-math>) were calculated. For comparisons between broods the linear growth rate on days 3-8, the mean plateau masses for days 9-15, the mean maximum masses attained, and the mean final masses on days 13-15, were used. Growth rates and plateau masses were not obviously related. Brood size and degree of hatching asynchrony had no effect on these growth parameters, while brood enlargements and reductions affected differently growth rates and plateau masses. These patterns suggest an adjustment of brood size to the ability of individual parents to provide adequate care for their nestlings. Starvation mortality peaked shortly before fledging after being low for the first 10 d of nestling development. Changes in mass rank during the plateau phase were very infrequent among the lowest ranked nestlings in all broods. Asynchronous broods had significantly larger steps between ranks than synchronous broods during the plateau phase, indicating an absence of early brood reduction. Large mass deficits existed throughout the nestling period. These patterns indicate that brood reduction is inefficient in this species and its association with hatching asynchrony unclear.
10.2307/3675927|Mean territory size decreased gradually from 7.5 ha in 1979 to 4.3 ha in 1982 and increased sharply to 7.8 ha in 1983. During the same period, mean territory size was inversely proportional to breeding density in the current spring, and to chick production in the preceding summer. It is suggested that the fluctuation in mean territory size was predominantly affected by changes in the intruder pressure caused by young cocks, but was also associated with a change in the aggressive state of territorial cocks. Mean territory size of young and old cocks did not differ significantly. Mated cocks had significantly larger territories, weighed significantly more, and survived better than unmated cocks. Some indirect evidence for the existence of a surplus population was found.
10.2307/3676002|Geographical trends in demographic traits were studied in Swallow Hirundo rustica and House Martin Delichon urbica from populations in the western Palaearctic. Clutch size increased with latitude in Swallow second clutches and with longitude in House Martin second clutches. The number of broods per season decreased latitudinally and for the House Martin longitudinally as well. The number of eggs per pair per breeding season thus decreased with latitude in both species and with longitude in the House Martin. It is suggested that the difference in the longitudinal response between the two species is due to the higher and thus more weather-influenced foraging niche of the House Martin. Hatchability of House Martin eggs increased with latitude. Between year population size variations increased with latitude in the Swallow. Ashmole's (1961) hypothesis did not account for geographical trends in clutch size. Geographical variation in nest predation could not explain variance in clutch size. Royama's (1969) model on clutch size trends taking food availability, time available for feeding and the temperature-dependent energy requirements of young into consideration explained a large fraction of the variance in clutch size among both species. The absolute metabolic level of the nestlings decreased from north to south.
27669753|In spring 1979 the Wader Study Group organised a co-operative project to study the spring migration of Siberian Knots Calidris c. canutus from their west and south African wintering grounds to the breeding grounds in central Siberia. S. African wintering birds migrate via the western seaboards of Africa and Europe. Siberian Knots seem to use only a few staging sites between W. Africa and Siberia. Most birds only use the W. German Wadden Sea. Staging areas of lesser importance are the Tejo Estuary in Portugal, the Vende coast in France and, probably, the Westerschelde in SW Netherlands. At the latter three sites in early May, birds appear to arrive with lower body weights than in Schleswig-Holstein (W. Germany) at the same time. The migration from W. Germany to central Siberia is most probably made in one flight via the Gulf of Finland. Detailed information on the timing of migration is presented. A model on body weight changes during migration in a fixed time schedule is employed to discuss the energetic constraints on the migration strategy of Siberian Knots.
10.2307/3676112|Three patterns of post-hatching development are exhibited in the Alcidae. Four species are truly precocial, 15 are semi-precocial, and three show a pattern intermediate between these patterns. In the semi-precocial species, where the young are fed in the nest by the parents until fully feathered and nearly adult size, diverse growth rates are evident. The feeding ecologies of the species are considered to have been an important factor in the evolution of these developmental patterns and growth rates.
10.2307/3676879|We manipulated clutch size in a Swedish breeding population of Pied Flycatchers to investigate effects of clutch size on the costs of incubation. Clutches were enlarged respectively reduced with 2 eggs (18 clutches in each group) and compared with 29 simultaneously laid control clutches. There was no relationship between experimental clutch size and laying date. The length of incubation increased significantly with clutch size in a nonlinear fashion. This was mainly due to enlarged clutches being incubated for on average one day longer than control and reduced clutches. Hatching asynchrony also increased significantly with clutch size due to prolonged hatching of enlarged clutches. Hatching success was not affected by the experimental treatment. Females incubating enlarged clutches lost significantly more mass both absolutely and relatively than those incubating reduced clutches. Incubation feeding by males had a positive effect on female nest attendance, but males did not increase feeding rates in larger clutches. High rates of <tex-math>${\rm CO}_{2}\text{-production}$</tex-math> were measured in 5 of 6 birds with the doubly-labeled water (<tex-math>${\rm D}_{2}{}^{18}{\rm O}$</tex-math>) technique. In these incubating females, daily energy expenditure amounted to 3-4 BMR, which shows that incubation can be costly in this species. The effects found could affect reproductive success directly and by impairing the capacity to care for nestlings and fledglings.
10.2307/3676407|Spatial and temporal variation in the number of breeding pairs, site-tenacity of adult females, laying date, clutch size and reproductive success of the Pied Flycatcher was studied in 1987-1989 in two areas 35 km apart in northern Scandinavia and related to weather conditions, plant phenology and predation. One study area was situated in a relatively productive and mild forest zone (Skibotn, 6920N), the other further south in a harsh zone of mountain birch forest (Kilpisjrvi, 6903N). The hypothesis of no spatial difference was rejected for number of pairs, site-tenacity, laying date, clutch size and breeding success. Both areas showed considerable between-year variation in several breeding variables. At Skibotn, egg-laying started 7 d after birch-leafing; at Kilpisjrvi, 5 d before. Birch-leafing occurred 18 d earlier at Skibotn than at Kilpisjrvi, to be compared with the difference of only 6 d in laying date. At Skibotn, clutch size averaged 6.2 and number of fledglings per nest 3.6; at Kilpisjrvi 5.5 and 2.9. At Kilpisjrvi, breeding success seemed to be limited by cold weather; at Skibotn by predation. Site-tenacity of adult females was relatively low in both areas: 5% at Skibotn and 11% at Kilpisjrvi.
10.2307/3676914|In colonial Herring Gulls, neighbours are often the main cause of lowered reproductive output. Previous studies have claimed a relationship between nesting success and nest-density. I monitored breeding performance in a small Herring Gull colony for 7 years (1982-1988). During the study, pair numbers varied between 26 and 47. This variation produced pronounced differences in the spatial circumstances for breeding, as mean neighbour distances varied between years. In general, the colony became less dense as pair numbers decreased, but during one year the pairs clustered more tightly than a linear relationship would have predicted. I also found a strong relationship between the number of fledged chicks produced per pair and density. Production ranged between 1.22 and 2.37 fledged young <tex-math>$\text{pair}^{-1}$</tex-math>, being depressed in high-density years. In high-density years, more chicks disappeared from the nests, indicating that intraspecific predation was higher in these years. I was able to rule out some other factors which may have affected production. The results show that Herring Gulls sometimes breed at densities that are clearly suboptimal, and emphasize the importance of colony selection.
10.2307/3676452|In a 3-year study of the Northern Masked Weaver Ploceus taeniopterus in Kenya, I determined that fewer than 1% of the nests of this species had been parasitized by Chrysococcyx cuckoos. This rate of heterospecific parasitism is low when compared with the rate of parasitism by conspecifics, and I conclude that heterospecific nest parasitism has been a relatively unimportant factor in selecting for egg-color variability and egg-recognition ability in Ploceus weavers. I show that I could readily distinguish cuckoo eggs from weaver eggs, and I discuss the circumstances surrounding the six known or suspected cases of cuckoo parasitism that I detected.
10.2307/3675899|Differences in foraging behaviour and spatial distribution of male and female Curlew Sandpipers are described. Males and females occurred more often in segregated than in mixed groups, and agonistic behaviour was more frequent in single-sex than in mixed groups. Females foraged faster than males and achieved a higher success rate. It is suggested that competition on the breeding grounds rather than on the wintering grounds may favour sexual dimorphism in the species, since food does not appear to be limiting in southern Africa.
10.2307/3676595|Despite the importance of compensatory mortality in setting harvest levels, few studies of tetraonids treat it directly. Total compensation for shooting mortality among adults in populations subjected to significant shooting (harvest rate over 5%) has been demonstrated only in Red Grouse Lagopus lagopus scoticus, and perhaps in Ruffed Grouse Bonasa umbellus. Only in Red Grouse is there direct evidence for total compensation for shooting in juveniles. Considerable indirect evidence for total or partial compensation comes from comparison of densities on shot and unshot areas, density dependent losses, normal sex ratios where only males are shot, and removal experiments showing that replacement birds exist in spring. The indirect evidence is weak owing to lack of control of immigration and doubt about the fate of "surplus" birds. Compensatory natality has rarely been detected in tetraonids.
10.2307/3675991|When their breeding is finished, adult White Wagtails leave their territories and spend the night in common roosts. At the same time the postnuptial moult sets in. Some birds, especially females, start moulting while still conducting young from the second brood in the territory. A comparison reveals that there is little difference in moult-status between birds caught on roosts and birds caught on territories.
10.2307/3676098|A suburban Blackbird population in southern Sweden was censused in eight breeding seasons (1968-1974, 1976), and the number of territories found to vary between 50 and 79. The number of territories correlated negatively with the severity of the preceding winter. The mean density over the eight years was 2.4 territories/ha which is similar to densities in suburban areas in Britain and continental Europe. Differences in density existed between structurally different parts of the main study area and also between those and another (new-built) area censused in 1975. These differences correlated with the amount of cover (tall shrub) available, seemingly acting as cues for the Blackbirds' habitat selection.
10.2307/3676567|Two models are developed that demonstrate how changes in density of freshwater fish and ensuing changes in water transparency affect prey encounter rate in fish-eating birds. "Pursuit divers" (e.g. divers and mergansers), which search for food while swimming with their eyes below the water surface, may be compensated for reduced densities by increases in transparency. "Surface plungers" (e.g. terns, fish-eating raptors) can reach prey only in the uppermost volume of water, so increases in transparency cannot compensate for declines in fish density. Only by an increase in search height can the extent of the surveyed volume of water where fish are available be increased. A test of the model for two "pursuit divers", Gavia arctica and Mergus merganser, using field data concerning the selection of 16 lakes in relation to fish density, water transparency, and a "fish detectability index" (combining data on fish density and water transparency), suggests that this model applies for these species in oligotrophic lakes in south-west Sweden.
10.2307/3676508|Timing of breeding and breeding performance in the Redshank were studied in N. W. England during 1983-85. Older, more experienced Redshank tended to pair with birds of similar breeding experience and generally nested early in the season. Experienced females laid significantly larger eggs than inexperienced females. There was no significant difference in mean egg volume between first and replacement clutches or between clutches laid by the same female in consecutive years. Variation in mean egg volume was greater between than within clutches. Egg biometrics had high indices of repeatability both between and within years. Three measures of chick size (weight, bill and tarsus length) were significantly and positively correlated with egg volume.
10.2307/3675935|Data were collected to test the idea that male Mallards guard their female partners during the time when they can be fertilized (critical period). Males maintained closer proximity, and followed their partners more during the critical period. Females were chased by other males significantly more during the critical period, and male partners were more aggressive to such intruders, than at other times. Most attempts at extrapair bond matings were by paired males. Unpaired males appeared more intent on forming pair-bonds. The sex ratio varied over the egg-laying period, but was always male biased.
10.2307/3676603|The life histories in Palaearctic and Nearctic forest grouse were studied and compared to three aspects of the habitats - successional stage of forest, habitat structure ("open-ness"), and winter food ("feeding habitat") - used by different grouse. No evidence of r-selection in grouse using early successional stages of the forest compared with those using later stages was found. Species inhabiting dense habitat structures had low body mass. Winter food was related to both annual adult mortality and reproductive effort. Conifer feeding species had low annual mortality rate and low reproductive effort compared with species feeding on deciduous plants. The possibility of an impact of different winter diets on the evolution of annual adult mortality rate and reproductive effort in forest grouse is discussed.
10.2307/3676605|Hazel Grouse Bonasa bonasia typically roost in snow burrows at night in winter, but this is often not possible in maritime climates. The alternative, roosting in trees, was studied in south-central Sweden during three winters. Data from 64 roost sites showed that Hazel Grouse preferred to roost in Norway spruce Picea abies, the tree species on the area providing the greatest amount of vertical cover. Roost trees were consistently shorter than the surrounding canopy trees and birds roosted low in the trees. Roosting sites had a significantly higher density than expected of both spruces and total trees. Thus, Hazel Grouse roost sites had more vertical and horizontal cover than expected. This type of site probably provided thermal benefits to roosting grouse.
10.2307/3676634|During the month prior to spring departure to the breeding grounds the Svalbard population of Pink-footed Geese staging in west Jutland, Denmark shifts from pasture to grain feeding on newly sown fields. This paper compares the daily energy expenditure and net energy intake in the two habitats. On pastures the geese spent 80% of the feeding day feeding vs 54% on newly sown barley fields, but due to more frequent disturbance flights in the latter habitat, the estimated daily energy expenditure on pastures was lower (1088 kJ vs 1280 kJ). Daily food intake on pastures was estimated at 158.5 g organic matter and on newly sown fields at 229.8 g organic matter, equivalent to a daily net energy intake of 1267 kJ and 2824 kJ, respectively. The net energy intake per peck during a feeding bout was 14 J on pastures and 219 J on newly sown fields. Thus, from an energetic point of view, feeding on newly sown fields was advantageous compared with feeding on pastures, and the observed habitat shift can be seen as a choice of the most profitable food source. The grain provides sufficient carbohydrates to build up fat reserves for later reproduction, but not sufficient protein.
10.2307/3675907|Pied Flycatcher Ficedula hypoleuca Pall. populations in deciduous and coniferous habitats around Uppsala, Central Sweden, were compared. In deciduous as compared to coniferous habitat, males, but not females, were larger, territories were occupied and egg laying started one week earlier, and final breeding success was higher. The size-related assortment of individuals upon the two habitats was interpreted as the outcome of competitive interactions. This finding and the lower reproductive success in the less preferred habitat are in accordance with Fretwell's ideal despotic distribution model.
10.2307/3676360|This study examined the availability of food for Barnacle Geese breeding on Spitsbergen in relation to the snowmelt, their feeding activities and food intake in relation to phenological events, and their reproductive performance. The food intake rate increased gradually throughout spring, concomitant with an increase in the density and quality of the food on offer. The timing of incubation was ultimately controlled by the availability of food throughout summer, being an evolutionary trade-off between a late start (favourable foraging conditions during the egg stage, which enhanced the probability of successfully hatching the eggs), and an early start (resulting in a high survival rate of the off-spring). A necessary delay of incubation in late snowmelt seasons affected, in order of importance, nest success, brood size at hatching, and the proportion of pairs that initiated breeding.
10.2307/3676013|Ringing recoveries of Danish Kestrels show that survival has increased abruptly twice in this century, - after introduction of protective legislation of the species 1926-1931, and after protection of all species of birds of prey in 1967. In both cases, this increase coincides with significant decreases in numbers of recoveries of birds shot. After 1967, available information indicates a population increase followed by stabilization on a higher level during the period 1970-1980. Correspondingly, survival decreased again to its former level, and monthly mortality changed from a peak mortality in autumn to peaks in July-August and January-February. These results strongly suggest that shooting pressure has had limiting effects on population size between 1945 and 1967.
10.2307/3676647|A migratory songbird (Dark-eyed Junco Junco hyemalis) was used as a model for studies on the endorphinergic regulation of food intake. When administered intramuscularly to ad libitum-fed birds, the opioid antagonist naloxone dose-dependently reduced food consumption during the first hour post-injection, suggesting that opioid mechanisms participate in the control of feeding in this species. Food consumption was not influenced by an injection at various doses of the specific delta agonist BUBUC. It was attenuated by an injection of the specific kappa agonist U-50,488H, possibly because this drug either induced a nonselective behavioral inhibition or affected peripheral opioid receptors. These data do not provide evidence that the anorexic influence of naloxone in juncos results from the stimulation either of delta or of kappa receptors.
10.2307/3676903|The parental food loads of Gannets were sampled at two Norwegian colonies during 3 yr. Saithe and herring were the most common prey. Saithe were slightly more common, but owing to larger size and greater energy density, herring made up 57% of total biomass and 68% of the total energy harvested. These findings suggest that saithe were more available to Gannets than were herring. Parental food loads were lighter and contained less energy than those in Canada and Scotland and indicate that parental regimes probably vary oceanographically. Prey size was inversely related to the number of items in a parental load, suggesting that Gannets, like other multiple prey loaders, may forage until a certain weight load threshold is reached.
10.2307/3676896|During 1973-85, the mean clutch size and the mean number of fledglings in Tengmalm's Owl correlated positively with the spring trap index of the preferred prey (Microtus voles). The largest clutches (7-10 eggs) were more profitable both per egg and per clutch than the most common clutches (5-6) which, in turn, were more productive than the smallest clutches (1-4). Predation rate was higher on small clutches than on large ones. Broods with one young experimentally added did not suffer from a higher nestling mortality than control broods or broods with one young experimentally reduced. This suggests that the amount of food available to the egg-laying female is the critical factor for the determination of clutch size. However, young of enlarged broods tended to achieve slightly lower weight at fledging than did young from reduced broods, which indicates that their phenotypic quality and therefore later survival might be lower. This may select for smaller clutches than those producing the largest number of fledglings.
10.2307/3676757|Greenfinches were observed arriving at and departing from a communal roost on more than 50 occasions each. They settled at the roost earlier than expected for the season at low, and later than expected at high light intensities. Departure time was negatively correlated with the number of birds in the roost. Light intensity when late birds departed was positively correlated with the number of Sparrowhawks observed at the roost. The Greenfinches departed earlier than expected at high, and later than expected at low light intensities.
10.2307/3676044|A short-term study of the feeding niche differentiation of some passerine birds was conducted in a montane pine forest in central Spain during one winter, and the results were compared with similar data from northern Europe. Only six species of passerines were fairly common in the study area. The distribution of densities seemed to be more even than in northern Europe. The so called "pariform guild" as defined in Scandinavian studies, was found to consist of three distinct groups of species according to their foraging patterns: a group of generalized ground, shrub and branch foragers, another of specialized foliage foragers and a third of specialized trunk foragers. The last group overlaps so little with the rest of the species, that it should be excluded from the guild. Parus montanus and Certhia familiaris are not found in central Spain, while they are common in northern Europe. Instead Sitta europaea and Certhia brachydactyla were relatively common. The higher average temperatures for the winter months in central Spain when compared with northern Europe may induce a greater resource abundance, which possibly explains the broader niche of Parus cristatus and the abundance of Sitta europaea. No major effects on the foraging patterns of Parus cristatus and Parus ater by the absence of Parus montanus were observed, but the distribution of P. cristatus in the pines may be affected by the presence of Sitta europaea.
10.2307/3676346|According to W. and R. Wiltschko magnetic orientation is primary to and sometimes also immediately dominant over stellar orientation. By using another kind of orientation cage, however, we were not able to confirm the results of the Wiltschkos.
10.2307/3675928|We describe changes in the relative sizes and water contents of body components during the postnatal development of the Northern Gannet, a large altricial seabird. During the 13-week nestling period, body proportions change markedly as mass increases about 40-fold. As in other altricial species, proportions of the appendages, associated skeletal muscles, and feathers increase with growth while those of the viscera and the head decrease. Percentage of water in the body decreases linearly with age from about 85% at hatching to 70% at 50 days of age. The relationships of organ size to body size, and of the percentage of water in a component to the proportion of its growth accomplished at a particular age in Gannet chicks appear similar to those of smaller altricial nestlings. Hence pattern of growth and development does not differ greatly among species with adult sizes spanning two orders of magnitude. The slower growth rate of the larger Gannet apparently reflects a general prolongation of the altricial pattern of development with little qualitative change. The earlier achievement of homeothermy in the Gannet than in smaller species appears related in part to its larger size and resulting greater thermal inertia and lower mass-specific conductance. Although skeletal muscles may acquire function at a somewhat lower relative mass in the Gannet than in smaller altricial species, the slower growth of larger species cannot be linked to any major difference in pattern of anatomical or physiological development.
10.2307/3676877|The influence of weather variables (visibility, windspeed, temperature, precipitation, cloudiness, and duration of sunshine) on growth of Little Auk chicks was analysed by means of stepwise multiple regression. We found a statistically significant negative influence of precipitation on chicks 1-5 d old, a negative impact of wind, and a positive effect of visibility on the growth of chicks older than 5 d. Based on a day-to-day analysis we found five days throughout the chicks' development in which their growth was influenced by visibility or precipitation. Characteristically, we detected the influence of these variables on chicks' growth in times of changing weather conditions. Air temperatures measured in three nests were stable and close to ambient temperature. Only in one nest was the temperature significantly correlated with ambient temperature. We conclude that some weather variables clearly influenced changes in body weight of Little Auk chicks, although their effect on postnatal development was weak.
10.2307/3676020|In the study area in Central Norway the Chiffchaff and Willow Warbler occupied mutually exclusive territories. A part of the forest occupied one year by one of the species could another year be inhabitated by the other species. After the removal of a male of one of the species, a male from the other species could occupy its territory. It is suggested that differences in the species' habitat preferences could not be involved to explain the spacing pattern of the territories. No indication was found among the outcomes of the recorded interspecific confrontations for the hypothesis that one species was dominant over the other one. When using playback to promote an intrusion of one species in the territory of a male of the other species, the owner of the territory usually was able to evict the intruder. Generally, neither species responded aggressively to playback of heterospecific song. A stuffed Willow Warbler was attacked to a lesser degree by both species when heterospecific song was played with it than when conspecific song was played. These experiments suggest that the species were capable of identifying each other by means of the song. It is suggested that the species may occupy mutually exclusive territories because one species (the Chiffchaff) arrives earlier than the other and that the study area was not saturated with the species. In this way it is possible for later-arriving individuals to find areas to occupy. It is suggested that this spacing system reduces interference from other individuals during foraging. This explanation invokes chance as an important factor. It is suggested that competitive systems based on different forms of stochasticity deserve further attention in studies on resource partitioning between species.
10.2307/3676787|Relative growth of body parts (wing, culmen, tarsus) in young Snow Geese differed among years and among summer feeding areas only a few kilometers apart in the vicinity of the McConnell River, Northwest Territories, Canada. Gosling age was unknown at time of capture, so we expressed all differences in measured characteristics as a function of culmen length. This procedure may underestimate the magnitude of differences in growth with respect to age. Year and summer feeding area had large, independent effects on relative growth. Growth of primary feathers showed the greatest variation of measurable variables among feeding areas. We argue that the cause of most differences in relative growth was nutritional variation of vegetation. If goslings with retarded growth do not entirely catch up on fall staging areas, there may be lasting demographic effects.
10.2307/3676286|Night rest during nestling period was studied by observations from a hide-out and by an automatic recorder for a total of 42 nights under subarctic summer conditions at Ammarns, Swedish Lapland (66 N). The female was usually sitting on the nestlings during night rest. Phylloscopus trochilus rested for 5-7 hours, the time being almost equally distributed around midnight; Emberiza schoeniclus for 3.5-5 hours, mostly before midnight; Luscinia svecica and Saxicola rubetra 3-5 hours, mainly after midnight. Time of night rest - before, around, or after midnight - seems to be species-specific. Species differences indicate that other factors than light are involved in the adaptation of diurnal activity rhythms to subarctic summer conditions.
10.2307/3676281|Extensive counts of wintering Anatidae (including aerial surveys in coastal waters) were made in 1967-1974 as part of the International Waterfowl Counts. Total populations in 1971-1973 were estimated to be 233,000-297,000 for all Swedish waters, excluding offshore areas of the Baltic and the northern part of the west coast. Marked annual variations in numbers were found in relation to the severity of the winter. Bucephala clangula, Somateria mollissima, Mergus merganser, and Cygnus olor showed increasing trends, whereas Cygnus cygnus decreased after the hard 1969/70 winter. The increasing trends may be due partly to a shift in distribution during milder winters, and partly to a recovery after the hard winters of 1962/63, 1965/66, and 1969/70. The midwinter distribution of different species in relation to feeding ecology is discussed.
10.2307/3675921|Spread of laying and median laying dates were recorded within and between colonies of Common Guillemots Uria aalge in 1973, 1974 and 1975. In 1975 the first egg was layed on 1 May and the last on 5 June (36 days): median: 16 May. The median laying date varied by up to six days in different years and in different colonies in the same year. In 1975 considering all colonies (n = 580 pairs) 13% of eggs were laid in the first 10 days of the laying period, the corresponding figures for individual colonies fell between 57-74%, indicating greater synchrony within colonies. It is suggested that a two-tier system of synchrony exists: a large scale colony effect and a more localised effect within the colony depending upon the density of breeding groups.
10.2307/3676807|The technique of ptilochronology was used to assess the influence of food cache availability on feather regeneration in Gray Jays Perisoreus canadensis wintering in northcentral Alaska (6640N, 15033W). The method involved plucking a rectrix (tail feather), allowing the bird to grow a replacement feather from the same follicle, plucking that induced feather, and then measuring the width of daily growth bars and the length and mass of the induced feather. The experimental protocol involved supplementing jays in some territories with food that they were allowed to cache, and leaving jays in other territories unsupplemented. After the period of food supplementation, a rectrix was taken from jays in all territories. Approximately two months later, the induced (replacement) rectrix was taken from jays in all territories. Replacement feathers from jays with supplemental caches grew at a faster rate and were longer and heavier than those from jays that did not have access to supplemental caches. Supplemented jays were also more likely to grow a replacement feather. These results suggest that the wintering jays with access to more cached food were able to allocate a greater amount of energy to feather growth. Ptilochronology appears to have promise for improving the experimental tractability of a great variety of questions in avian ecology.
10.2307/3676463|The breeding biology of the House Sparrow was studied in the Mediterranean coastal plain of Israel. Egg laying occurred from the end of March until mid July. The mean clutch size was 5.05 eggs with a modal clutch size of 5, whereas the most productive clutch size was 6 eggs. On average each pair laid 2.3 clutches per year from which a total of 5.75 young fledged. Mean egg weight increased with laying sequence within the clutch. Incubation length was negatively correlated with ambient temperature. Average breeding success was 70.0%. Nestling growth rate was negatively correlated with brood size, but both the time the nestlings spent in the nest and nestling feeding rate were positively correlated with brood size. The time interval between broods increased by on average 1.6 d for each additional chick raised in the previous brood. These results are compared with those obtained for other populations of House Sparrows.
10.2307/3676427|Using geometric relationships, we calculate theoretical upper (20-30 km) and lower (0.7-6.2 km) limits to horizontal distances over which volant seabirds can be visually recruited to join Type I flocks in the open ocean. These are compared to empirical estimates for recruitment distances, obtained from chumming experiments conducted in the western Atlantic Ocean off the southeastern United States. The product of arrival times and flight speeds for individuals (n = 164) joining 10 flocks indicated that potential recruitment distances were closer to the lower theoretical limits, with a mean distance of 4.5 km when flight time and ground speed were adjusted for detection lags, wind speed, and zigzag flight. Distances and time spans for mutual attraction among seabirds have important consequences for evaluating both intra-and inter-specific interactions at the community level, as well as direct implications for sampling independence during distributional surveys that employ consecutive line transects or other sequential counting methods.
10.2307/3675961|A population of wing-tagged Hooded Crows Corvus corone cornix was studied for five breeding seasons. Pairs that bred in the first year that they occupied a territory laid smaller clutches and bred later than experienced pairs. Some pairs bred for the first time in the second year that they occupied a territory. In this year their breeding success was similar to that of experienced pairs. Pairs with one experienced partner and one that bred for the first time had a breeding success that was similar to that of experienced pairs. A pair's territory increased in area after the first year of occupation. Experienced pairs differed with respect to egg weight, breeding time, and clutch size but not with respect to rate of predation on eggs and nestlings. Large females (measured as bill length plus foot length) and heavy females laid heavy eggs. Heavy females and females in good condition (heavy in relation to their size) bred early.
10.2307/3676374|Recoveries of dead (n=3,158) and recaptures of live (n=4,283) Eiders ringed in the Dutch Wadden Sea were analyzed. About 98% of the females ringed as ducklings showed natal philopatry; a few settled in adjacent colonies. Adult females were 100% philopatric. In males, natal dispersal was roughly estimated at 78%. Breeding dispersal in males was estimated at 15% per year. Dispersing males settled in a large area up to about 1,700 km from their original colony. Post-fledging dispersal was in all directions, up to 1,200 km from the place of birth. The distribution of young males and females was similar up to the spring of their third calendar year. From then on, females were found near their natal colony and males were dispersed. This dispersal pattern can be explained by pair formation in the communal winter quarters and by the strong philopatry of the females. Males simply follow their mates ("abmigration"). The ultimate result of this dispersal behaviour is a genetic mixing of more than 40% per generation over a large area.
10.2307/3676011|The study was done on the estuary of the river Ythan, Aberdeenshire, Scotland. During high tide, when preying on Clupeidae, capture rates achieved by Common Terns Sterna hirundo and Sandwich Terns Sterna sandvicensis decreased significantly with increasing windspeed. Capture success did not change but the birds reduced the rates at which they attempted to capture prey. Changes in wave amplitude were probably more important in this than windspeed per se. At low tide when preying on Crangon vulgaris the capture success of Common Terns also decreased significantly with increasing windspeed. Capture methods employed by both species changed in relation to windspeed such that shallower dives were made at higher windspeeds. It is argued that as windspeed and wave amplitude increase the birds find it more difficult to predict the position of the fish below the surface and thus opt to prey mainly on fish nearer the surface.
10.2307/3676140|Breeding time, clutch size, dimensions and intra-and interclutch variation were measured in 612 egg clutches of Fringilla coelebs during the past 100 yr. Egg-laying starts on average 4 d earlier in Denmark - SSW Sweden than in S Finland, and 4 d earlier the last three decades than around the turn of the century, probably due to the spring climate amelioration. No latitudinal trend in clutch size was found. Mean-egg volume decreases from the south to the northeast, and so does male wing length. Mean-egg volume increased with the progress of the breeding season, but the correlation was not stable, for clutches with large mean-egg volume are nowadays laid early in the season more frequently than before. Egg shell thickness varies between and within some regions, and also among clutches collected before the use of pesticides. Replacement clutches exceed first clutches in mean-egg volume, but the number of eggs per clutch remains the same until very late in the season. Selective forces shaping the breeding strategy of Chaffinches of different age and size are discussed.
10.2307/3676239|Take-off and landing of Gavia stellata were studied at nesting tarns. At take-off divers had to skitter to obtain the necessary relative airspeed at the wings, the feet contributing the extra vertical force necessary to keep the diver out of water while acceleration was accomplished by feet and wings. They skittered 15-40 m, their feet moving synchronously with the wings. Take-off speed was ca. 36 km/hr. Since they are slow climbers, they had to circle around the tarns while climbing, thereby spending a component of the potential vertical force for centripetal acceleration. This puts a lower limit to the tree-free area for climbing turns. At landing they glided with wings and body raised, the feet being extended posteroventrally making the first contact with water. The stable, shallow glide promotes a safe landing at high speed. Mean flight speed during fishing flights was 60.4 km/hr.
10.2307/3676199|The feeding behaviour of European Wigeon, Teal, Mallard and Pintail was studied in May, June and August on a shallow lake in northern Sweden at 66N. Duck behaviour was found to be related to the time of the day, the weather conditions and the food resources. In May, the dominant food resource was Chironomidae imagines, which were either present on the aquatic vegetation, or on the water surface. The food-seeking behaviour of Wigeon, Teal and Mallard was at that time almost exclusively restricted to the water surface or above it, while the Pintails also fed below the surface. In June, the Chironomidae imagines were still present but in greatly reduced numbers. The Wigeon and Teal now also fed to some extent below the water surface, whereas for Mallard and Pintail this type of feeding behaviour was dominant. In August, the Chironomidae imagines had all disappeared, but their larval biomass on the lake bottom had increased. The Wigeon still fed predominantly on or above the water surface while all the other duck species now almost exclusively fed below it. In June cold and windy weather induced Teal and Pintail, but not Mallard, to feed more frequently below the water surface, although such weather conditions in May and August did not lead to any drastic changes in the feeding behaviour of any duck species.
10.2307/3675951|Sexual and seasonal differences in mortality in the Black Grouse Tetrao tetrix L. were studied by radio-tracking 53 hens for 3051 bird-days in spring and summer, and 54 cocks for 3906 birds-days during spring to winter in Swedish boreal forest. The mortality rate of hens during spring and summer was 0.35 but had a sharp peak during egg laying and incubation. Goshawk Accipiter gentilis L. predation was the major known cause of death (12 of 17 kills). Outside the breeding season mortality seemed to be low. In cocks, unlike hens, mortality in spring appeared to be related to age. Adult territorial cocks had a mortality rate of 0.31 while all young non-territorial birds survived. Rapid weight loss during display peak among the former but not the latter suggested that territorial display implies energetic stress. During autumn and winter results were suggestive rather than conclusive: (1) juveniles had high mortality throughout autumn, (2) two-year old non-territorials had a peak in mortality in late autumn, and (3) adult territorials survived. All deaths were proximately caused by predation. Annual mortality rate for adults was estimated as 0.44. Finally, a tentative model of seasonal variation in sex ratio skewness is given as a way to pinpoint periods of sex-differential mortality.
10.2307/3676475|In two Golden Plover populations in S. Norway (Jren: heather moor at 300-400 m elevation, and Hardangervidda: middle alpine zone at 1200-1300 m elevation) there was a negative correlation between egg volume and the date on which clutches were started. A Dotterel population in the study area on Hardangervidda did not show any trend in egg volume in relation to the start of egg-laying. On Jren more late than early Golden Plover clutches contained fewer than 4 eggs. On Hardangervidda no reduction of clutch size with season was found in either Golden Plover or Dotterel. In newly hatched Dotterel chicks both body weight and tarsus length were positively correlated with egg volume, while no such data were collected for Golden Plover. It is argued that, in waders, populations of single-brooded species should show a decrease in egg volume with season, whereas this should not apply to multi-brooded species.
10.2307/3676778|To clarify whether foraging conditions and different diets might influence growth and fledging success of Common Tern chicks at different nesting sites, feeding experiments using three types of diet (herring, three-spined stickleback and common shrimp) were carried out in 1985. The results were compared with field data from three Common Tern colonies at the Lower Saxon Wadden Sea. In addition seven food species typical for Common Terns were analysed energetically and biochemically. The results showed herring and other marine fish to be the most favourable diet. In spite of the lower nutritive value of three-spined stickleback and common shrimp (lower caloric value, protein and fat content; higher mass of inorganic substances; greater energy loss through faeces per day and chick; reduced growth rate of chicks) these species are frequently fed to the chicks in several colonies. Possible advantages and prerequisites of this feeding strategy are discussed. Three-spined sticklebacks or common shrimps seem to be an important additional energy source in times of low availability of high-energy food, enabling the chicks to maintain their body mass temporarily and thus preventing starvation.
10.2307/3676569|The nest defence behaviour of the Redwing Turdus iliacus was examined to determine whether changes occur during the breeding season, whether defence intensity is related to reproductive success, and to study fluctuations in the probability of predation. Alarm calling rate was used as a measure of nest defence intensity. The rate of alarm calling increased throughout the breeding cycle. No significant differences were found in total alarm calling rate between early and late breeders, or between groups with different clutch or brood sizes. The probability of predation increased as the breeding season proceeded. The results are discussed in relation to predictions derived from three hypotheses of parental investment (cumulative investment, expected benefit, and increasing predation).
10.2307/3676734|Forty-five individuals of three long-distance migratory passerine species were displaced from Denmark to Kenya in the autumn of 1987. In Kenya their orientations were recorded in funnels during September - December. The purpose of the experiment was to elucidate the orientation system(s) genetically encoded in the birds. Five such systems were considered and compared with the observed orientational patterns. Special attention was paid to the clock- and compass system which by almost all experts is considered a sufficient explanation of the migratory progress and timing. However, it does not describe the results of this study satisfactorily and the influence of some sort of coordinate navigation - possibly stellar-based - seems likely.
10.2307/3676912|Dominance status of juvenile and adult Black-billed Magpies Pica pica was studied at a feeding station in the wild and under captive conditions in an outdoor aviary. In the wild, adult magpies won only 15% of 72 interactions recorded at a food source outside any known territory; only adult males were recorded dominating juveniles and then only female juveniles. In captivity, only the dominance status of male magpies was studied. When both age cohorts of males were new to captivity, an adult was top-ranked in only 21% of 24 trials. However, when adult males had > 1 year's residence in capitivity, the dominance relationships changed significantly with adults dominating juveniles in 55% of 22 trials.
10.2307/3676163|The total population of Gannets in Norway in 1971 was 569 breeding pairs: 383 on Runde off lesund in South Norway (established 1947), 77 on Skittenskarvholmen off Mosken in the Outer Lofoten Islands (established 1960-1965), 65 on Skarvklakken off Nordmjele, Andya (established 1967), and 44 on Innerstauren, Syltefjord, East Finnmark (established 1961). The choice of breeding localities is suggested to follow the distribution of Herring Clupea harengus and Capelin Mallotus villosus. The social stimulus from Cormorants Phalacrocorax carbo may have initiated the establishment of the unusual breeding sites on the islets off Mosken and Nordmjele. The population increase far exceeds the intrinsic rate of increase, and immigration of new breeding birds must have taken place in most years. These birds probably originate from Scottish colonies.
10.2307/3676542|Selective feeding by the Takahe Notornis mantelli, an endangered, flightless, herbivorous rail, endemic to New Zealand, was studied in the Murchison Mountains, Fiordland, between 1976 and 1980. Takahe occupy the alpine grasslands throughout the snow-free period and have a simple diet consisting of leaf bases of snow tussock grasses (Chionochloa pallens, C. flavescens, C. crassiuscula) and a mountain daisy Celmisia petriei. Changes in seasonal diet between plant species and between plants of the same species were examined in relation to the mineral nutrient, carbohydrate, lipid and soluble sugar content. Tussock species eaten by Takahe contained more nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, calcium, sodium and soluble sugars than those eaten less frequently or avoided, but selection for specific nutrients changed seasonally. Takahe selected within and between species for high concentrations of nitrogen and phosphorus in spring-early summer, and for carbohydrates in late summer-early autumn. Amongst the tussock grasses, the birds displayed a preference for actively growing, nutrient-rich tissue and appeared to differentiate between species and among sites along an altitudinal gradient to take advantage of inter- and intra-specific differences in the onset of growth flushes. Takahe also favoured leaf bases of flowering tussock tillers. Observations of Takahe feeding behaviour on Chionochloa pallens showed that the birds sampled widely before intensively feeding on a tussock. It is suggested that the basis for food selection involves discrimination by visual qualities and chemical cues associated with taste.
10.2307/3676570|Svalbard Ptarmigans deposit large amounts of body fat during the autumn. When the fat stores were at their fullest (in September/October) resting metabolic rate was <tex-math>$100\ {\rm Kcal}\ {\rm kg}^{-1}\ {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math> after 5 d of starvation. In December when voluntary food intake was at its lowest, resting metabolic rate was <tex-math>$88\ {\rm Kcal}\ {\rm kg}^{-1}\ {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math>, being unaffected by 5 d of starvation. Weight loss during starvation in September/October, November, December and January was 18.7, 16.3, 11.0 and <tex-math>$12.9\ {\rm g}\ {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math>, respectively. The daily energy expenditure of starved birds coincides with calculated daily energy expenditure of ad lib. fed birds at the same time of the year. It follows that the Svalbard Ptarmigan does not increase its activity during episodes of starvation in winter. Starved birds responded to resumed feeding with hyperphagia until their body weight reached the body weight of ad lib. fed control birds. This finding indicates that body weight in the Svalbard Ptarmigan is regulated according to a seasonally changing set-point. The potential durability of the body fat reserves of starving Svalbard Ptarmigan was assessed at monthly intervals during the dark part of the winter.
10.2307/3676066|The female Willow Tit incubates alone and is regularly fed by the male. Incubation starts gradually during the egg-laying period, but did not, at the nests studied; develop fully until several days after the clutch was completed. The overall mean egg temperature recorded during the period of steady incubation was 36.4C. The duration of attentiveness was adjusted to changes in the air temperature. With increasing air temperature the periods-on tended to decrease and the periods-off to increase in duration, but the male's visits to the nest interfered with and partly masked this pattern. There is some evidence that incubation is basically controlled by a circadian rhythm.
10.2307/3676012|Bird distributions were examined along transects extending from forest edges 250 m out on clearcuts and the same distance inside forests. Inventories were performed in spring, summer and autumn 1980, winter 1980/81 and spring 1981. 67% of all observations were made in forest parts. However, there was a seasonal change with relatively more observations on clearcuts in summer and autumn. There were considerably more observations and higher densities in an outer forest belt of c. 50 m than deeper inside the forest. This was apparent for most species but particularly in the common species Erithacus rubecula, Fringilla coelebs and certain Parus spp. There were few pronounced edge species (Anthus trivialis and Parus major dominating in numbers). Fewer individuals of open land species were observed in the first 100 m of clearcuts than in their centres. There the bird fauna differed completely from that in the forest, consisting of just a few species of open habitats, such as Emberiza citrinella and Lanius collurio. The high occurrence of tree-gleaning species in the outer forest belt is suggested to depend on a rich supply of insects. The low density of open land species on clearcuts close to the forest may be due to several factors generally important on habitat islands as varying intra- and interspecific competition and risks for ambush predation.
10.2307/3676143|The breeding bird community at Kuopio, Central Finland, was studied on 14 plots representing five urban habitats. Diversity (H) decreased with increasing urbanisation (measured as decreasing plant volume), but the evenness component of diversity (J) and density were not correlated to urbanisation. This decline was confirmed by studying area-diversity relations in each habitat. Density and diversity or density and effective species number. exp(H), showed no correlation. Diversity correlated strongly with actual species number but weakly with evenness. The number of birds per species was predicted in a linear fashion by relative constancy of species. Edge heterogeneity increased bird species diversity but had no influence on density or evenness. The results suggest that urbanisation affects bird communities rather by decreasing species richness than by changing species-abundance pattern. Furthermore, density and diversity are not regulated jointly. A mosaic distribution of urban habitats may alleviate the impact of urbanisation on bird populations.
10.2307/3676102|The parental behaviour of four wild pairs of Willow Grouse, maintained in captivity near Troms in northern Norway, is described. Two pairs bred normally in outdoor enclosures in June, while two, maintained indoors under artificial light, bred successfully in late autumn and early spring, respectively. All four hens laid full clutches, and all but one incubated them. Her eggs were incubated and the chicks subsequently brooded by the cock. The incubating birds were more active, and called more, just before hatching. In some cases they left the nest while individual chicks hatched. Hatching success was relatively low, but the chicks which did hatch were brooded effectively, usually by the hen. The results are discussed in relation to other studies of grouse breeding.
10.2307/3676577|There are at least two sides to the matter of geographical population segregation in bird migration: (1) asymmetric competition for breeding resources between birds from different wintering areas, and (2) asymmetric competition for winter resources between birds from different breeding areas. We have earlier stressed the importance of the first point for the evolution of leap-frog migration; Pienkowski, Evans and Townshend, in their alternative explanation, stress the second (competition acting through size dominance). There are counter-indications to both hypotheses, particularly to the effects of size-related dominance. Leap-frog migration may be associated with both the above-mentioned competition effects acting in combination.
10.2307/3676548|The effect of the posture of group members on foraging group attractiveness in the Teal was studied. The posture of group members did not affect the attractiveness of groups. Teals seem to follow the general rule of always joining a group whatever foraging method is predominantly used by group members.
10.2307/3676487|We observed 4 and 2 marked pairs of Yellow Warblers throughout the breeding seasons of 1986 and 1987, respectively. Males perched higher during all breeding stages and remained closest to their mates during the latter's fertile periods. Males intruded into territories more frequently during a resident female's fertile period when more border disputes between males were recorded at territory boundaries. Neighbouring males made up 65.1% of all male intrusions into focal territories. Prior to incubation intruding males approached resident females but were usually chased out by the resident males. Two intrusions resulted in extra-pair copulation attempts of which one was successful. Thirty-four within-pair copulation attempts occurred from 7 d before to 1 d after clutch initiation. Rates of intrusions, border disputes, and extra-territorial flights, where birds flew beyond their neighbour's territory, were not correlated with the stage of breeding of their mates. However, males made extra-territorial flights only after their mate's fertile period. The proportion of departures initiated by females away from their mates and the rate of male following remained the same throughout the breeding season. We suggest that in open forest habitat, Yellow Warblers guard their mates by surveying them from high perches and concentrating their activities near the female during her fertile period.
10.2307/3676537|Transects of pinewoods in the Maremma Natural Park, Tuscany, Italy, showed unusually high densities of 347 to 676 (mean 484) <tex-math>$\text{Jays}\ {\rm km}^{-2}$</tex-math> in July but much lower densities (similar to those in northern Europe) in October and November. The density in the alternative habitats, scrub and olive grove, changed in the opposite direction between seasons. The high numbers of Jays were associated with an abundance of cicadas Cicada orni in the pinewoods in July and of acorns in the scrub in autumn. Radio-tracking of four Jays showed ranges of 42.5 to 358.8 ha, which encompassed both scrub and pinewood in July but which were confined to scrub in autumn. Jays were seen to move from scrub to pinewood in large numbers at dawn in July and were observed to return at dusk. In autumn, individual birds were seen carrying acorns from scrub to pinewood, apparently to cache them there.
10.2307/3675894|Inter-observer differences were studied at Falsterbo on four occasions. Sixteen experienced observers, four on each occasion, simultaneously and independently recorded the migration. No single observer could record the entire migration even under moderate conditions. Observers were relatively efficient in recording raptors and abundant and easily detected species. Observers were compared with regard to the number of species and individuals recorded. Any two observers both recorded 50-80% of all species in their pooled records. For species occurring in sufficient numbers for analysis, the inter-observer agreement, i. e. the percentage of individuals two observers both recorded related to the highest number recorded by either of them, ranged between 26 and 88%; for five species that were well represented on more than one occasion the corresponding proportions varied between 59 and 80%.
10.2307/3675931|The full song of the Blackbird was analysed quantitatively by means of sonagraph, level recorder and computer. Species-specific limits of variation are given for a number of song parameters. Some of these parameters vary between individuals, others vary within individuals in two situations, viz. dawn song with heavy stimulation from rivals and evening song with weak stimulation from rivals. The parameters and the differences between the variations of the parameters all seem to be within the range of auditory perception of oscines. It is therefore hypothesized that parameters varying within species-specific limits have a potential for conveying a message about the species, and that parameters varying within these limits with the individual or the situation have an additional potential for conveying individual or behavioural messages, respectively. Blackbird song was also studied with respect to adaptations for acoustic communication. Selection has favoured the evolution of a functionally divalent signal, the motif parts being adapted for long-range communication and the twitter parts for short-range communication.
10.2307/3676767|The number of Short-eared Owls in upland conifer plantations in South Scotland was positively correlated with vole numbers during autumn and spring from October 1975 to July 1978. There were fewer voles and owls in grazed sheepwalk than in the ungrazed young-plantations. The mean size of owl territories varied from 42 ha to 112 ha, and was negatively related to vole abundance. Recoveries and sightings of wing-tagged owls suggested that they may have dispersed several hundred kilometers or more, following the decline in voles, but were most likely to breed in the study area in successive years when vole numbers were increasing.
10.2307/3676039|Postnuptial moult in a Great Tit population in S. Sweden covers a period of about 4.5 mo (June-October), while in an individual moult takes about 3 mo. Secondary, tail and tertiary moult start about simultaneously, when P4 is growing. Tail and tertiary moult finish about two weeks before primary moult, while secondary moult continues for about two weeks after the primaries are renewed. Comparing the integration of moult in the annual cycle at Lund, S. Sweden, and in Belgium, I find that at Lund adults can start moult while raising first brood young, something not observed in Belgium. In both populations males start moult before females, but in Belgium male moult is slowed down because of its overlap with autumn agonistic behaviour, so that males and females terminate moult at about the same time. There is no such overlap at Lund which results in males finishing moult before females there. Birds finishing moult later grow shorter wings, this possibly being a 'price' for raising two broods.
10.2307/3676392|Using the daily growth of induced feathers as an index, we found that supplementary food significantly improved the nutritional condition of wintering birds of several bark-foraging species, Downy Woodpecker Picoides pubescens, Carolina Chickadee Parus carolinensis, Tufted Titmouse P. bicolor, and White-breasted Nuthatch Sitta carolinensis. In many previous studies of the behavior and ecology of wintering birds, supplementary food on and off site both before and during study periods has remained an uncontrolled variable. We suggest that future work should incorporate knowledge about the accessability of artificial food supplies.
10.2307/3676766|The results of experiments with different types of nestboxes are reported from a study at Trondheim, Norway. The Pied Flycatcher tended to prefer large nestboxes to small ones, and lay larger clutches in the former. However, this did not occur when the nestboxes were placed in separate, nearby plots. When nestboxes were of the same small size within a plot, females laid larger clutches in nestboxes placed in normal, upright position than in tilted ones. The former females had higher body weight. Thus, correlations between clutch size and type of nest site seemed to be related to differences between individuals, in particular in body condition, rather than to clutch size being modified in relation to size and type of the particular nestbox concerned. This suggests that the pattern in which birds search for a nest site differs, experienced birds in good condition visiting more potential sites. Alternative hypotheses are discussed.
10.2307/3676190|The existence of non-breeders of Crested and Willow Tits, due to dominance behaviour, was tested by removing territorial pairs at laying time. We played tape recordings of the songs to identify territory owners and their defended areas. The total populations were counted in the autumns before and after the experiment, and natural changes were followed in control populations. Immigrants did not appear in the vacated areas until July, after the breeding season. In the autumn after the removals, population levels on the vacated areas showed no difference relative to the controls. Hence, territorial behaviour at the time of laying did not limit breeding numbers in these species. Some spacing mechanism, of unknown nature, levelled local differences in density before November.
10.2307/3676873|In a north-temperate population of the House Wren, we found that males frequently intrude into territories held by conspecifics. In an attempt to identify the function of these intrusions, the rate of intrusions into a territory when the resident female was presumed to be fertile was compared with the rate when she was presumed to be infertile. Intrusion rates peaked during the resident female's fertile period. Intruding males frequently adopted a posture associated with copulation when they approached resident females. We identified the intruder to be a neighbour of the resident pair in the majority of intrusions observed. This evidence suggests that the majority of territorial intrusions in House Wrens are made to obtain extra-pair copulations.
10.2307/3676904|Consistence in risk of nest predation between consecutive nesting attempts at the same site may be explained by at least two hypotheses: (1) Nest sites differ in detectability; (2) predators memorize the location of previously detected and depredated nests. We tested these hypotheses using an individually marked male Hooded Crow preying on artificial ground nests. We used ten pairs of nests; one of the nests (experimental) was placed in exactly the same spot as one of the nests preyed upon by this crow in the previous year, while the other (control) was placed 30-40 m away. The crow preyed upon the experimental nests first in spite of the two kinds of nest having the same degree of vegetative cover. This supports the memory hypothesis and suggests that in birds that suffer egg predation by corvids there will be selection for site shifts after nest predation.
10.2307/3676917|This study compares reproductive success, dominance, and biometrical variables for Great Tit populations in deciduous and coniferous forest in an attempt to establish whether the birds are distributed between habitats of different quality in a despotic or ideal free manner. No critical differences could be found in reproductive output, and male birds breeding in different habitats did not differ in resource holding potential (RHP). Therefore the distribution of Great Tits over habitats of different quality seems to be in accordance with Fretwell's Ideal Free Distribution model. No relationship was found between body size and social behaviour but the oldest individual had the greatest chance of winning conflicts. Some differences in biometric measurements between habitats were observed. Similar observations have been interpreted in earlier papers as evidence that large individuals possess high RHP. Since no relationship was found between body-size and RHP, it is concluded that such differences do not necessarily imply that Great tits are distributed in a despotic way. Generally birds were smaller in the coniferous habitat. A variant of the Ideal Free Distribution model where individuals choose the habitat to which they are morphologically adapted, may be a possible explanation.
10.2307/3676818|The distribution of sex and age classes of Hawk Owls in Norway outside the breeding season was analysed from 79 fresh birds and museum specimens. The tendency to move from the breeding range down to the lowlands was most pronounced in adult females, less so in juvenile males, and least in adult males and juvenile females. A combination of social dominance and competition for breeding territories may account for this distribution pattern.
10.2307/3676032|Current models concerning the programming of the orientation in migratory birds are far ahead of the evidence from laboratory and especially field experiments. None of the "proofs' for coordinate navigation (towards the wintering area or a moving goal on the migratory route) or vector-orientation are convincing. In the present paper we report on a long-distance displacement of Robins from Denmark to the Canary Islands. The juvenile birds were oriented towards ESE-SE, and compensated the displacement at least partially, whereas the adult birds were oriented towards S-SSW and showed no significant compensation. The results were surprising, and add to the general confusion in this field.
10.2307/3676461|We recorded the duration of successive dives, and pauses on the surface between dives, of foraging Western Grebes Aechmophorus occidentalis at Duck Lake, near Creston, British Columbia. Overall, the duration of a pause was positively related to the length of the preceding dive. Pauses shorter than expected (based on the length of the preceding dive) were defined to have a negative deviation from estimated surface time (DEVEST), while pauses longer than expected had positive DEVEST. The results show that the DEVEST in successive dive-pause cycles is highly positively correlated, so that the cumulative DEVEST first increases for a series of 10-100 dives, and then decreases over a long series. DEVEST has very little influence on dive duration. Western Grebes hunt fish schools, which are initially hard to find, but once found offer many captures. We hypothesize that the observed pattern of surface and underwater time results from a policy allowing western grebes to exploit fish schools more fully than if full recovery followed each dive.
10.2307/3676633|Fieldfare clutch size was studied in N and SW Sweden. The commonest clutch size was smaller than the most productive one, which was the largest natural clutch size. The results suggest that Fieldfares are adapted to reduce large broods through nestling starvation in combination with asynchronous hatching. The youngest chicks had lower probability of survival than their older siblings. Nestlings in experimentally enlarged broods weighed less than young in broods of average size, and the enlarged broods did not produce more fledglings than the control broods. Resources needed for egg-formation seemed to influence clutch size because female weight and clutch size were positively correlated. More birds were recaptured on their breeding grounds in SW than in N Sweden, suggesting a higher mortality rate among adult birds in N Sweden. The smaller average clutch size in N than in SW Sweden probably resulted from the combined effects of reduced foraging success and a high proportion of young, inexperienced individuals in the northern population.
10.2307/3676376|Male Blackbirds Turdus merula caged in an anechoic room had their sound radiation patterns of different types of vocalization calculated from simultaneous measurements by three microphones. Radiation patterns were also obtained by artificially broadcasting sound through the vocal tract of the carcasses of the same individuals. Both sets of measurements showed that vocalizations with prevailing energies below 4 kHz are nearly omnidirectional while those with energies mainly above 5 kHz are directional with a reduction in sound pressure level (SPL) of up to 20 dB behind and below the bird. A change of the beak opening angle from 30 to 3 caused a decrease in SPL of up to 10 dB for frequencies above 4 kHz. The beak opening angle therefore can act as a volume control for high frequencies. The results imply that high frequency Blackbird vocalizations, e.g. the hawk alarm seee call, can be beamed toward target individuals, whereas low frequency vocalizations, e.g. the chook call, expressing mild arousal, can be used towards individuals in unknown locations. Wide-band vocalizations like the full song possess both capacities and the ratio between high and low frequency intensities may be used to specify target individuals as receivers.
10.2307/3676843|Data on beechmast in south Sweden, Denmark, Germany and Yugoslavia, on snow-cover in Germany and on records of mass concentrations of Bramblings in Europe between 1900 and 1983, are presented. Bramblings concentrate in areas with a widespread rich beechmast crop and try to winter as far north-east as possible. Extensive snow-cover forces movements to the south and south-west, where the birds may reconcentrate if there is also a good beechmast crop. No periodicity in mass occurrences or beechmast could be detected. Interrelationships between mass concentrations indicate that Middle Europe, Belgium, Luxembourg and northern France are visited by the same winter population, while those areas to the east and to the west of the south-western migration axis would seem to receive different wintering populations.
10.2307/3675911|Rhb calling is a specific male vocalization in Mallards and seems to function both as a warning and summoning call. The summoning function was studied in two experiments. Males were deprived of visual contact with conspecific females or female mates. The males' calling rate was high when alone or with females which were not their mates but low when the males were together with female mates. The results show that male mallards respond with rhb calling upon separation from their female mates and this probably functions therefore as a contact call.
10.2307/3675985|The pre-laying exodus of the Fulmar was studied in Aberdeenshire, Scotland, during 1973-75. After a period of attendance at the colony beginning in October, marked females began to leave in mid-April, about one month before the start of egg-laying. The first males left about a week later. For about 2 weeks numbers attending the colony were low, reaching a minimum of between 8 and 23% of the breeding population before recovering to over 50% of the breeding population. Females were absent for about 20 days (on average) while males departed for about 9 days. Males usually returned to the colony earlier than their mates. About 10% of the marked males may not have undertaken an exodus. The exodus in the Fulmar and in other petrels is discussed.
10.2307/3676053|Hostile and triumph ceremony behaviour of the Canada Goose was studied 1970-1973. Threat and triumph display postures are briefly described. The form of the triumph ceremony postures indicates that the initiating part (rolling), and probably also the terminating part (cackling) are related to agonistic behaviour patterns. The sequential organization of the patterns also reveals an association between hostile behaviour and the triumph ceremony. It is concluded that the triumph display and agonistic behaviour in this species have motivating factors, internal or external to the animal, in common. The variation in amount and proportion between the triumph display components shows that rolling prevails in pre-attack performances and when strange geese are close to the pair in the territory, while cackling prevails in post-attack performances and in displays without connection with overt hostile encounters.
10.2307/3676248|The breeding site tenacity of colour-ringed Chaffinches and Bramblings was studied in the southern part of N Finland (6457N, 2658E) during 1967-1973. The breeding site tenacity of adult Chaffinches was very strong. Almost all of the certainly alive marked males bred in precisely the same area as in the previous year. In springs with superabundant food supplies and exceptional weather conditions, however, most of the younger (a + 1-yr) adults shifted elsewhere and only the older individuals remained faithful to their breeding area. Several factors may contribute to the great annual variation in the returning. The most probable explanation was that changes occur in the selection strategy of breeding sites among the younger adults in N Finland. The results also agreed with the conclusion that breeding site tenacity may decrease from south to north. For the Chaffinch, this decrease was effected by the younger adults. The situation for the Brambling was different. Adult Bramblings lack any faithfulness to their previous breeding sites, and they nested in different areas each year. Thus the Chaffinch (a southern species) and the Brambling (a northern species) displayed a significant difference in selection strategy of their breeding grounds. Furthermore, the importance of the present findings in studying population changes was briefly discussed.
10.2307/3676257|Hen Red Grouse in north-east Scotland were tracked by radio to find how they used their potential feeding areas. As the breeding season approached, they switched from wide-ranging movements to localized feeding in places where their staple food, heather Calluna vulgaris (L.) Hull, was richer in nitrogen. Feeding also became slower and more deliberate in manner, and tended to continue later into the morning. Where the heather at large was comparatively low in N content, site selection appeared to be more intense.
10.2307/3675913|In experiments with artificial nests each supplied with one egg and placed in spruce trees in woodland at Trondheim, more nests were robbed when Hooded Crows Corvus corone cornix had been recorded in their vicinity. Fewer nests were robbed if they were located within rather than outside Fieldfare Turdus pilaris colonies. The protection provided by the Fieldfare was particularly evident when fledgeling Fieldfares were present in the vicinity of the artificial nests. Data presented indicate that the nests of other bird species are also safer from predation when built within a Fieldfare colony. The proportion of complete nesting failures by individual Fieldfare pairs due to nest predation seemed to decrease with increasing size of colony. Low predation of the eggs occurred in artificial nests sited near the nest of a Sparrow Hawk Accipiter nisus.
10.2307/3675900|Purple Sandpipers were virtually absent in June, numbers increased between July and November, and decreased in April and May. Birds which arrived in autumn remained within the area until they departed in spring, though some carried out short-distance movements. Many birds returned to the same winter quarters in successive years. The average proportion of first-year birds was 24%. It was estimated that the population was composed of 86% Norwegian-breeding birds, the remaining 14% may come from Iceland. 58% were males. Adults and first-years had similar bill lengths. Wing lengths of adults remained constant between October and May but decreased over the migration and breeding seasons. Half of the population completed moult of the primaries by the end of September. Mass was stable between late autumn and early spring. First-years and adults had similar masses, and both increased in mass during early May prior to emigration.
10.2307/3676695|Almost all species of seabirds at Horny and Reiny are increasing in numbers. The Herring Gull colony is one of the largest in Europe. Most species feed mainly on capelin, but sandeels are important for Brnnich's Guillemots, Razorbills and Shags. Diets remained closely similar from year to year but consistently differed between species. Puffins and Razorbills fed largely on immature fish while other species took mostly two year old fish. The majority of the two year old capelin consumed by auks in June and July were ripe, although most capelin spawn in March and April. Foraging ranges were extremely short, breeding success and chick growth rates unsually high. Food consumption totalled <tex-math>$9000\ \text{tonnes}\ {\rm yr}^{-1}$</tex-math>, of which 7500 tonnes were capelin. Food appeared to be superabundant, and dietary differences between species probably reflect anatomical and behavioural adaptations rather than niche partitioning through active competition. Seabirds appear to select capelin of high lipid content since they fed predominantly on ripe two year old fish during chick-rearing, when spent fish were of poorer nutritional value.
10.2307/3676705|To study the effect of food availability on the onset of reproduction, clutch-size and breeding success in the Blue Parus caeruleus and Great Tit P. major, we experimentally supplied food on parts of a holm oak study site in Mediterranean France during two consecutive years and compared the birds' responses with the natural patterns in holm and downy oak habitats. In the Blue Tit, the mean stage of nest construction was significantly more advanced in the experimental than in the control area in one year; the mean laying date was significantly earlier in the experimental area in both years (difference 6 d in 1986, and 5 d in 1987). Results for the Great Tit showed the same but non-significant trend. For both species, no significant differences in clutch-size were found between experimental and control birds. Supplemental feeding did not increase the Blue Tit's breeding success which was even significantly lower in the experimental than in the control area in 1987. In that year, the experiments apparently advanced laying to the extent that nestlings were present prior to the food peak. We conclude that food availability does not limit laying but rather acts as a stimulus triggering it. However, our results do not exclude that feeding conditions in early spring may also influence the onset of laying by enhancing the physiological condition of the pre-laying female.
10.2307/3676078|The Black-browed Albatross Diomedea melanophris and Grey-headed Albatross D. chrysostoma are similar in size and weight and breed at the same time, but have substantial dietary differences. To study the effects of diet on growth, the eggs of ten Grey-headed were exchanged with those of ten Black-browed Albatrosses and the growth of these fostered chicks were compared with those reared by their own parents in the same season. Although the chicks of both species altered their growth patterns in response to dietary differences, they were limited by species specific constraints on growth. These results, together with observations on breeding success, suggest that both the growth patterns of the chicks and breeding patterns of the adults of these two species are adaptations to differences in their food and feeding ecology.
10.2307/3676042|The composition of Parus assemblages was recorded for 88 local bird communities in western Europe. The number of Parus species in a habitat (assemblage size) was found to be most closely correlated with the number of other tree-foraging passerine species, suggesting that the building up of Parus assemblages is presumably determined by habitat attributes. Only about one third of all possible combinations with the six available species are found in nature. Mean interspecific difference in bill length (MBD) is significantly higher in combinations which do occur. Among occurring assemblages, MBD values and the number of times combinations have been recorded are positively correlated. Each Parus species has a critical threshold value of coexisting congeneric species above which its presence in the assemblage is highly predictable. Species are added to the group in a fairly ordered fashion: smallest assemblages are made up of extreme-billed species, and middle-billed species are added as assemblage size increases. Non-random patterns in the constitution of local Parus assemblages are discussed by considering simultaneously the upper limit set on assemblage size by habitat quality and the competitive processes leading to stable, non-invasible configurations.
10.2307/3676084|Aspects of courtship behaviour and parental care in the European Robin were studied during the 1978 and 1979 breeding seasons. Data suggest that 'courtship' feeding serves a nutritional role, particularly during incubation. Female Robins with high rates of 'contact' calls produce larger clutches than females with low rates of 'contact' calling. Males reduce their mates reproductive costs by providing a large proportion of the food required by nestlings during first and successive broods, and by tending fledglings from first broods. During the fledgling period young 'contact' call at a constant rate, but parents operate a 'mean' strategy by apparently feeding at a predetermined rate. Two 'consort' males failed to feed or defend 'adopted' young.
10.2307/3676713|Although significant repeatability (r = 0.23) of clutch size of individual Willow Grouse Lagopus lagopus was observed in an area in northern Norway, the data did not indicate any heritable effects on clutch size. The greatest source of variation in the clutch sizes of individual hens was the date of clutch initiation.
10.2307/3675940|The interrelations at the site of a feeder, the winter home range and dominance rank were studied in male Great Tits during four successive winters. In juvenile males, both those leaving the population at the end of the winter as well as those recruited to the next breeding population, dominance rank was not influenced by the site of the feeder. In contrast, the social position of adult males was in some years clearly affected by the site of the feeder. During the territorial period (March-April) the site of the feeder as a determinant of dominance, in settled males, was not always clear.
10.2307/3676420|Six free-roaming flocks of Willow Tits Parus montanus were supplied with radio-actively labelled sunflower seeds in two experimental designs. In the first design all seeds were given at one location in the territory. The tits then retrieved most hoarded seeds in a few days, similar to Marsh Tits P. palustris encountering an ephemeral food source during the winter. In this situation, food is stored at a high rate and retrieved shortly after storing. In the second design the same amount of seeds was provisioned at five different sites in each territory. This design resulted in more widely distributed caches which increased retrieval time by a factor of four. This shows that retrieval time is dependent on the distribution of caches in the territory. Other factors than cache dispersal that may affect retrieval time in tits, such as the energetic value of food are also discussed. Finally, possible mechanisms affecting the evolutionary stability of hoarding in tits, are outlined.
10.2307/3676353|The results of a study of polygyny in a marked population of Hen Harriers in Orkney are presented. Data on 37-62 nests were collected annually from 1967-74. Since about 1950 a high proportion of adult males were polygynous, but most first year birds were monogamous. Hatching success of eggs and the mean number of young fledged per nest were higher in monogamous situations involving adult males than in polygynous ones. Males with three or more females, however, gave rise to more young than those which were monogamous. The distribution of nests tended to be clumped with a mean distance to the nearest nest of 0.81 km. Adult males were fairly regularly spaced over moorland at a mean density of 0.38 per km<sup>2</sup> and the mean distance between them was 1.10 km. The mean distance between first year males and the nearest adult male was significantly less. There was a significant overall excess of females fledged and in the breeding population there were about twice the number of females as males. Polygyny apparently became frequent in Orkney when the breeding population exceeded about 50 females. It is suggested that polygyny enables more females to breed than could do otherwise when the region's holding capacity of males, as regulated by social factors, has been attained.
10.2307/3676738|Cattle Egrets forage in association with ungulates in Kenya. However, they do not forage with all species of ungulates, but select herds with hosts that take an average of 5-15 steps per minute and avoid slower- or faster-moving herds. Within herds having attending egrets, egret steps are positively correlated with host steps, and the number of capture attempts and items obtained are positively correlated with the number of host steps. Thus, foraging egrets can use host steps as a predictor of prey availability and host suitability. A stepwise regression showed that the best model for items obtained included host species, host steps and egret steps. Cattle Egrets preferred to forage behind zebra Equus burchelli, waterbuck Kobus defassa, wildebeest Connochaetes taurinus and buffalo Syncerus caffer.
10.2307/3676646|During the migratory season, the metabolism of night migrants has to deal with three main physiological situations and their transitions: (1) feeding during the day for fat deposition, (2) overnight fasting during stop-over and (3) nocturnal flight. Plasma metabolite levels of glucose, uric acid, triglycerides, free fatty acids, glycerol and -hydroxy-butyrate (-OHB) were used in Principal Component Analyses to determine independent factors which characterize these physiological situations and allowed the comparison of three species of night migrants: Garden Warbler Sylvia borin, Pied Flycatcher Ficedula hypoleuca and European Robin Erithacus rubecula. During overnight fasting, all three species had a low fat metabolism and protein catabolism. During feeding, birds showed high triglyceride and uric acid levels. During flight, birds were characterized by a high fat metabolism and protein breakdown with the particular feature of having high triglyceride levels. Differences among species during flight suggest that the Garden Warbler showed the most specialized metabolic adaptations to endurance flight relying most strongly on fat and having the highest body fat reserves. The Robin showed the opposite pattern and the pattern of the Pied Flycatcher was intermediate. Birds in transition between the main physiological situations were characterized by a low glucose/-OHB ratio.
10.2307/3675956|We manipulated broods of European Starlings to produce brood sizes of 3, 5, and 7 nestlings, and recorded the masses of adults throughout the nesting cycle. Males generally weighed more than females except during the laying period. Both sexes lost mass during the incubation and nestling periods, although the loss of somatic mass was most pronounced during the early part of the nestling period. Only at the end of the nestling period, and only among males, was body mass inversely related to the mass of the brood at the time of weighing. Repeated weighings of individuals during the second half of the nestling period revealed that females lost more mass than males, and adults rearing broods of 5 lost more than those rearing brooks of 3, although the average rate of loss was only 0.1 g day<sup>-1</sup>. Although mass loss is clearly associated with breeding and there are some indications that it is associated with level of effort, our results did not reveal convincing evidence for physiological stress.
10.2307/3676739|We tested the "egg viability" hypothesis in the House Sparrow Passer domesticus by comparing the hatchability of clutches with different degrees of hatching asynchrony using multiple linear regression analysis. Hatching duration was directly and independently affected by clutch size, laying date and temperature. Taking these factors into account, nests with positive residuals (asynchronous nests) had a greater probability of hatching the early laid eggs successfully. This indicates that by starting incubation early and hatching asynchronously, birds may reduce embryo mortality. Asynchronous nests fledged a greater proportion of early-hatched young, but total nestling mortality did not differ between asynchronous and synchronous nests. Nestling mortality due to intrabrood competition did not constrain hatching asynchrony. The presence of highly synchronous broods seemed to indicate that in some cases hatching asynchrony was precluded by constraints acting on the laying female.
10.2307/3676753|Similarities in song, morphology and habitat utilization of Thrush Nightingale and Nightingale, were studied in allopatric and sympatric situations. Responses of the two species to allopatric and sympatric intraspecific and interspecific songs were examined both in allopatry and sympatry. No morphological differences were found between allopatric and sympatric populations. Habitat utilization converged from allopatry to sympatry along most dimensions studied but diverged along one dimension, the topographic gradient: in sympatry the Nightingale used hilly habitats more often than in allopatry; this niche shift of the Nightingale may be connected with the presence of the Thrush Nightingale. In sympatry the two species were interspecifically territorial and playback experiments demonstrated interspecific responses of the two species. The more similar the song was to their own version, the more often the male responded to it. However, sympatric Thrush Nightingales responded similarly to all songs regardless of whether they showed more or less similarity to their own song, and they responded significantly more often to heterospecific songs than did sympatric Nightingales. According to a principal component analysis based on structural characters of the song, there was a one-sided song convergence from allopatry to sympatry among male Thrush Nightingales. However, most sympatric Thrush Nightingale males were mixed-singers with both conspecific and heterospecific songs in their repertoires, and only few males sang only songs similar to those of the Nightingale. In both allopatry and sympatry the Thrush Nightingale males shared more songs, conspecific or interspecific, with their nearest neighbours than with males singing farther away. The possible effects of territory competition between the two species on changes in their distribution are discussed.
10.2307/3676776|I measured wing lengths and weighed female Tengmalm's Owls at 404 nests during 1977-88 and males at 293 nests during 1979-88 in western Finland. Breeding females lost mass from the pre-laying and laying periods to the incubation stage and during the nestling period, whereas they kept constant mass during incubation. The body mass of breeding males did not change from the late incubation and hatching periods to the late nestling phase. The mean mass loss of breeding females was larger in poor vole years than in good ones. The yearly mean body mass of females was positively correlated with the spring trap index of Microtus and Clethrionomys glareolus, but this relationship was not significant for males. The wings of females were longer and bodies heavier on good territories than on poor ones, but territory quality did not affect the body mass of males. Intersexual differences in the seasonal and between-year changes in body mass were probably associated with different breeding duties of the sexes. Males do most of the hunting and cannot lay down large reserves that increase flight costs. Incubating and brooding females adopt the "passive storage role"; they are able to fast on average five days based on their body reserves at the start of breeding. The results of the study mainly support the "adaptation hypothesis" (the mass reduction of adult birds rearing young is an evolved adaptation), but the fact that females lost more mass in poor years than in good ones is better explained by the "stress hypothesis" (mass reduction is caused by food shortage and hard work).
10.2307/3676440|The rabbit Oryctolagus cuniculus is the most common prey of many predators in Mediterranean ecosystems, but how its abundance affects the productivity of its predators has been poorly studied. The Black Kite Milvus migrans is a generalist predator, but in our study area eats mainly rabbits. There was considerable year to year variation in the proportions of the nine prey types examined in the diet. The abundance of young and sick rabbits seemed to determine the consumption rate of rabbits by Black Kites. Interannual variation in reproductive performance (chick starvation mortality, fledging weight and length of the nestling period) was related to the proportion of rabbits in the diet, a year of high performance coinciding with a high proportion of rabbits in the diet. Some factors explaining the importance of rabbits for the reproductive success of this raptor are discussed.
10.2307/3676652|The expression of reproductive behaviors by songbirds outside of the breeding season suggests that these behaviors do not require gonadal hormones for their activation. However, many of these behaviors can be activated by estrogens, and castration of some songbirds does not eliminate estrogens from the circulation or eliminate estrogen-dependent effects on brain. Therefore, it is possible that reproductive and aggressive behaviors remain activated by endogenous estrogen when circulating androgens are low. We have measured plasma androgen and estrogen in a group of captive, winter White-crowned Sparrows Zonotrichia leucophrys. As expected, sex steroids were present at low levels in plasma. Nevertheless, estrogens (estradiol and estrone combined) were detected in the blood of most birds (adult males and immature males and females). In addition, we measured aromatase activity in brain and found high amounts of aromatase in the telencephalon, as has been reported for the Zebra Finch Poephila guttata. Because brain may be a source of circulating estrogen in songbirds, it is possible that the estrogen found in plasma of winter sparrows comes from brain and activates some reproductive behavior at this time of year.
10.2307/3676555|Among Tengmalm's Owls ringed in Norway, natal and female breeding dispersal distances were longer if dispersal took place during a microtine prey population low than if dispersal occurred within a microtine peak. Of the recorded cases of female breeding dispersal, 13% could be termed nomadic (dispersal distance > 100 km). Female and overall natal dispersal distances were longer than female breeding dispersal distances. Natal dispersal distances tended to be longer in females than males. Adult females dispersed farther after nest predation than after successful nesting. Extra mortality in adult females due to nest predation may only be small, and will in itself not select for nomadism, as recently suggested.
10.2307/3676122|A population of Golden Plovers was studied for 6 yr on breeding grounds in northeast Scotland. Winter loss, the time when birds returned in spring, and breeding dates were correlated with low temperatures and/or snow. Egg predation varied from 0-75% in different years, but the mean production of young was estimated to be enough to keep the population stable. Birds nested in short heather, and broods were found on patches of grass covering <1% of the moorland. Although most marked pairs stayed together on the same territories in successive years, some changed territories and partners. First-year birds were sexually mature, had as much black on the ventral parts as older ones, and showed no increase in the amount of black with age. The darkness of the male was significantly related to that of the female paired with him. The existence of two sub-species Pluvialis apricaria apricaria (L.) and P. a. altifrons (Brehm) is discussed along with colonisation of 'sub-optimal' areas by northern birds on abbreviated migration; both ideas are rejected.
10.2307/3676423|Breeding success of three species of Iberian shrubsteppe bird communities (Galerida theklae, Calandrella rufescens and Oenanthe hispanica) was analyzed. Nest mortality was very high (83.2, 80.8 and 67.9%, respectively), almost double Ricklefs' (1969) mean of 43.6% for open nests in temperate regions. Adding partial losses, breeding success was 14.9, 15.7 and 26.4%. The main cause of loss was predation (around 55-75% of total losses during the incubation period and 70-100% during the nestling period). Differences in daily survival rates during the nestling stage were found between O. hispanica and the two lark species; inter-annual differences were found in C. rufescens; in O. hispanica there was variation between sites. We suggest that high mortality rates are a common feature in Mediterranean shrub-steppe passerines and contribute to an advancement of breeding time. Furthermore, only the existence of metapopulations, with a high degree of annual and local variation in mortality rates, explains how these populations remain stable.
10.2307/3676228|The numbers of Dunlins present during the year on the coasts of north-west Africa are summarised. Information on timing of migration, ringing recoveries, and analysis of bill lengths is used to determine the geographical origins of these birds. Most individuals are from the breeding populations in southern Scandinavia, western Europe, and Iceland, so that Morocco and Mauritania are of unique importance to these populations in the non-breeding season. There is some overlap in Morocco with populations from the northern Eurasian breeding grounds whose main wintering area is further north in Western Europe. The north-west African birds migrate in short flights without putting on large fat reserves. Many birds moult their primary feathers during migration.
10.2307/3676726|From a simple model we calculate the maximum possible foraging range of nesting Black-headed Gulls with one nestling. The maximum foraging range, defined as the radius where the energy budget is balanced, increases from about 5 to 15 km during the nesting period. These numerical values agree with observations on radio-tagged gulls. Between 1982 and 1986 we counted Black-headed Gulls along 10 transects around a large gullery. The density of gulls depended on month and transect location, and increased from sunny to rainy weather. In all months except April the density of gulls decreased with the distance from the colony. In June the gull density showed an abrupt decline at a distance of 12 to 15 km from the colony, as expected from the calculations of the maximum possible foraging radius.
10.2307/3676222|Air temperature was compared with body temperature, weight, breathing rate, depth of sleep, and frequency of shivering in 25 Willow Tits Parus montanus, 8 Siberian Tits P. cinctus, and 1 Great Tit P. major kept overnight in special roosting boxes outdoors at Skoganvarre, Finnmark (69 50N) in Jan.-Feb. 1960. Body temperature was measured in proventriculus in the evening, night, and morning. In both cinctus and montanus, temperature at sleep was on the average 5 C lower than standard deep body temperature in the day, but only in cinctus correlated with air temperature (r = +0.84; P<0.02). Weight loss, frequency of shivering, and breathing rate varied inversely with air temperature in both species. Shivering probably stabilizes body temperature at a level preventing dangerous physiological development. It is suggested that hypothermia is an important adaptation to the winter cold and restricted food supply.
10.2307/3676101|Numbers, breeding distribution, and dynamics of a closed goose population are analysed using data from 1948-1976, during which period the numbers have increased from about 300 to 7200. The birds now nest mainly on coastal islands and although the population has more than doubled since 1970 there has been little expansion of range. Mortality was high in the late sixties but decreased to an average of 10% in the 1970s. This, together with a slight improvement in breeding success, allowed numbers to increase. The weather in Svalbard is the main factor regulating recruitment, although winter conditions, in their effect on the ability of the geese to build-up body reserves, affect the population's breeding potential. Future population levels are discussed. It is predicted that the availability of nesting habitat will eventually limit recruitment and if it is limited to the present level that numbers are likely to stabilise at between 8000 and 12,000 birds.
10.2307/3676898|Changes in different aspects of parental care of Wheatears with nestling age and brood size were studied over 4 yr in two Swedish breeding populations. Some broods were enlarged or reduced to increase the range of observed brood sizes. The proportion of time females spent brooding decreased with nestling age until day 8, but the mean duration of brooding bouts did not, implying that females reduced the frequency of brooding bouts as homeothermic capacity of the young improved. Females reduced mean bout duration with brood size but not the total time spent brooding. The different effects of nestling age and brood size, and the negative effect of females' feeding rates on brooding commitment suggest that the food requirements of the young may affect female brooding behaviour independently of the homeothermic capacity of the young. Feeding rates of males and females increased similarly throughout the nestling period and reached a plateau from day 9 to fledging at about day 14. Load size and prey size increased with nestling age, and the proportions of spiders and small caterpillars in the diet of nestlings decreased. Males delivered larger loads than females. The relationship between feeding rates and brood size during the plateau phase differed depending on whether manipulated broods were included in the analysis or not. For unmanipulated broods, feeding rates did not increase with brood size and there was thus a decrease in feeding rates per nestling with brood size. When including manipulated broods in the analysis, there was a decelerating positive relationship of feeding rates with brood size. When removing the small broods, no decrease in feeding rates per nestling with brood size was found in the joint analysis of all broods. Brood manipulations led to changes in feeding rates with respect to the normal pattern observed. Future studies of parental care should consider these effects of manipulations before deriving any definitive conclusion about brood size effects.
10.2307/3676260|Young rabbits Oryctolagus cuniculus caught by the female Hen Harrier Circus cyaneus were the main prey of nestlings in Orkney from 1975 to 1977. Males caught smaller prey items. It is suggested that as males provide most of the food when chicks are small (when mortality among chicks is highest) voles Microtus arvalis orcadensis may be an important item at this time unless suitable alternative prey are available. Growth curves for males and females showed that the sexes were clearly separable by weight. Nestling mortality was most closely associated with the order of hatching, with the last to hatch generally the first to die. There was an underlying trend for an imbalance in the sex ratio of nestlings in favour of females since 1953, which was most clearly seen in broods of three young. Differential mortality is suggested as the most likely explanation although no evidence was found for this from a detailed analysis of a sample of 79 broods from 1975 to 1978 for which full details were known.
10.2307/3676574|In a series of experiments the orientation behaviour of single pigeons was compared with that of small flocks (three and ten individuals). On the whole the flocks did not orientate better than birds released singly. However, there were indications of slight differences between single birds and flocks, suggesting that the dominance of single leaders may be influenced by other individuals even in small flocks. The results are compared with those reported by other authors on the impact of social influences on bird orientation.
10.2307/3676070|Mist-net captures during short periods (about seven days) and in different Willow Tit territories were analysed to investigate whether vagrant, non-territorial birds ("floaters") could be discovered among the territorial group-members during August and September. Only first-year birds were mobile during the summer. By late summer, all first-year birds were immigrants to the territories where they were caught. About 50% of them could not be definitely determined as territorial; these individuals were re-netted at longer distances than the territorial first-year birds, and the proportion of such birds in the daily capture of previously uncaptured first-year birds increased as netting continued within the same territory. Birds not re-observed as territorial were more mobile after and, perhaps, also before the first capture than the territorial ones and they can be regarded as non-territorial.
10.2307/3676055|The habitat and site preferences of Common Uria aalge (L.) and Brunnich's Uria lomvia (L.) Guillemots on Bear Island, where the two species often breed side by side, were examined. Brunnich's Guillemots breed only on cliff ledges, where they rest their breasts against rock faces. Common Guillemots choose cliff ledges with ample room for the mate to stand beside the incubating bird; they also breed very densely on flat rocky surfaces. The behaviour of each species during aggressive encounters and when landing at the colony, considered with situations on ledges where both species breed together, suggests how interspecific competition may lead to the ousting of Brunnich's by Common Guillemots. The adaptation of Brunnich's Guillemots to narrow ledges is considered to be related to the evolution of the species in the Arctic environment.
10.2307/3676405|The post-nuptial primary moult of adult (2-year-birds included) Dunlins was investigated along the Baltic coast at Ottenby and Falsterbo, S. Sweden. These birds are on migration and only make short stopovers. During the years 1985-1988 at Ottenby, the proportions of moulting birds varied between 27% and 61%, probably due to annual variations in the timing of their passage. Compared with the older birds, 2-year-birds had more often initiated their moult and, on average, appeared in a more advanced stage of moult. Most of the Dunlins that had initiated moult were actively moulting - some feathers were not of full length and were found growing in a sample of caged individuals. The raggedness value (i.e. the gap due to not fully grown feathers) generally decreased in later stages of moult. By comparing raggedness values at given stages of moult, migrating Baltic birds generally had smaller gaps than non-migrating English conspecifics. Large gaps were correlated with lower body masses. The adaptive significance of commencing the moult prior to the arrival on moulting grounds and of moult during migration are discussed.
10.2307/3675898|This paper compares the patterns of migration of two congeneric warblers, moving from Britain to Africa, and aims to see how these might be influenced by the distribution of food supplies. Most Sedge Warblers fattened in southern England or northern France and overflew Iberia, while Reed Warblers paused and fattened in Portugal. The occurrence, duration of stay and rate of weight gain of Sedge Warblers depended on the abundance of the plum-reed aphid whose seasonality and distribution was broadly sufficient to predict the migration pattern. Reed Warblers showed no similar restrictions of diet, did not respond to aphid abundance and were able to achieve a similar rate of weight gain any time in September or October in Portugal. Migration strategies are discussed in evolutionary terms and shown to be appropriate responses to the pattern of food availability for birds with different feeding adaptations.
10.2307/3676377|In order to estimate the relative importance of environmental and genetical factors for the dominance status of young Great Tits at the time of their independence, a cross-fostering experiment involving 22 pairs of Great Tits breeding in deciduous and coniferous forests was performed. Adults and young were caught 15 d after hatching, and the birds were housed family-wise in indoor cages until the juveniles were independent of the adults. Dominance at a feeder was then determined for adults and juveniles in a series of tests, with groups of 5-6 birds of the same age and sex in each test. Resemblance between offspring and genetic and foster parents, respectively, was calculated by rank correlation. Resemblance in terms of dominance rank was similar between true parents and offspring, and foster parents and offspring, but the resemblance between dominance rank of foster mothers and offspring was larger than the resemblance between dominance rank of foster fathers and offspring. Furthermore, juvenile females raised in nests in deciduous forest on average had a higher dominance rank than those raised in coniferous forest, regardless of the origin of the eggs. I conclude that environmental factors are of primary importance for the dominance rank of Great Tits, while additive effects of genes are less important.
10.2307/3676643|Granulosa cells from resting or slow-growing follicles that have yet to enter the preovulatory hierarchy (1- to 8-mm in diameter) of the hen ovary are steroidogenically incompetent. The inability of granulosa tissue to synthesize the steroid precursor, pregnenolone, is due to the absence of cytochrome P450 side-chain cleavage (P450scc) enzyme activity. Cytochrome P450scc mRNA levels and enzyme activity can be induced in granulosa cells collected from 6- to 8-mm follicles, in vitro, by pretreatment with agents that induce cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) formation (e.g. forskolin, FSH). Prior and up to the 6- to 8-mm stage of development, the theca layer is solely responsible for ovarian progesterone, androgen and estrogen production; such steroidogenesis is under the regulatory control of pituitary gonadotropins (LH and, to a lesser extent, FSH). Spontaneous atresia is common in follicles 3- to 5-mm in diameter, and is functionally characterized by the activation of a nuclear endonuclease that cleaves genomic DNA into a series of 185-b.p. fragments and ultimately results in resorption of the follicle. We propose that this process (termed apoptosis) also mediates ovarian regression at the termination of the breeding period in seasonally-breeding birds.
10.2307/3676128|Kittiwake Rissa tridactyla chicks on Runde, West Norway grew more slowly and reached a lower peak weight than chicks on two small colonies in North Norway. Survival of chicks was also lower on Runde and chicks which died there tended to be lighter in weight than those which survived. Growth rate depended to some extent on the hatching sequence within 2-chick broods, and one year, when overall chick growth was slow, it also depended on brood size. Chick survival was independent of brood size, hatching sequence and egg size. These results are discussed in relation with those of other Kittiwake studies and studies of other Larid species.
10.2307/3676138|The experiment was carried out in South Norway from 1975 to 1977 (86 nestboxes in 1977). At the time of egg-laying by the Great Tit Parus major every nest-box was made uninhabitable, by various methods, except those which already contained tit nests. This led to increased efforts by the Pied Flycatcher Ficedula hypoleuca to take over tit nests. They were successful in only two out of 40 cases (one Great Tit's and one Coal Tit's Parus ater, nest) despite a late onset of spring, with delayed laying by the tits. Female flycatchers carried nesting material into another four tit nests. Mutual attacks were frequent and one male flycatcher was killed. Even after the cover of a nestbox had been removed and the entrance hole blocked, the male flycatcher remained singing in the immediate vicinity.
10.2307/3676765|We studied the response of wild-caught female Great Tits Parus major, implanted with estradiol, to playback of the songs of males of their own population and those of a population 8 km away. The females responded with a higher frequency of copulation solicitation displays to the local songs than to the distant songs. This supports earlier circumstantial evidence (McGregor and Krebs 1982a) that song structure is a factor in mate choice in the Great Tit.
10.2307/3676673|The migration of raptors at Falsterbo, Sweden was studied during five autumns, 1986-1990, to investigate the intraspecific temporal sequence of migration for different age and sex classes. The analysis is based on counts of between 45 and 72 321 individuals of 14 species. The percentage of juveniles varied among species and to some extent between years. This reflects a variable tendency of different migrants to concentrate at Falsterbo and fluctuating breeding success from year to year. Most species showed an even sex ratio. Marked exceptions were Marsh Harrier Circus aeruginosus and Hen Harrier C. cyaneus in which females constituted 60 and 61% respectively of adult migrants. This biassed sex ratio agrees with the tendency towards polygyny in these species. In tropical (long-distance) migrants adults migrated ahead of juveniles (Honey Buzzard Pernis apivorus, Montagu's Harrier Circus pygargus, Osprey Pandion haliaetus, and Hobby Falco subbuteo). It is suggested that it is advantageous for adults to arrive early on the wintering grounds, finish moult and accumulate energy reserves before spring migration and the next breeding season. Those short-distance migrants in which adults migrated before juveniles at Falsterbo are species whose majority leave Scandinavia in the winter (Hen Harrier, Common Buzzard Buteo buteo, Roughlegged Buzzard B. lagopus, Merlin Falco columbarius and Peregrine F. peregrinus). Adults leaving first have a greater possibility to secure a good winter territory forcing the juveniles, migrating later, to settle in less suitable habitat or to winter further south. In species where juveniles migrated ahead of adults a large proportion of the adults spend the winter close to the breeding grounds (Red Kite Milvus milvus, Goshawk Accipiter gentilis and Sparrowhawk A. nisus): The presumably subdominant juveniles may be excluded from the breeding territories by the adults and therefore migrate south, followed by a varying proportion of adults. Females generally migrated before males at Falsterbo due to different moult strategies; females starting and finishing moult of the flight feathers before males. This difference in timing of moult and migration is ultimately dependent on a marked role division between the sexes during the breeding cycle. In Honey Buzzard where both sexes share the breeding duties equally no difference in timing of migration was found. Social dominance, importance of early arrival at the winter quarters and moult strategies are the factors best explaining the observed differential timing in migrating raptors at Falsterbo.
10.2307/3676491|Changes in the availability of sandeels Ammodytes marinus have been shown to be the cause of recent widespread breeding failure of some surface feeding seabirds in Shetland. In this paper we compare the breeding performance and chick diet of Common and Arctic Terns in Shetland in 1988 with a previous study of these species in north-east England, when prey availability and breeding success were good. In Shetland young saithe Pollachius virens comprised 80% of the diet of Common Tern Sterna hirundo chicks in the first week of life. Chicks on this diet grew as well as those in north-east England. However, heavy predation of Common Tern young by avian predators appears to have occurred, and possible reasons for this are discussed. Arctic Terns S. paradisaea concentrated on sandeels; growth of their young was poor, and the majority died in the first week after hatching. We discuss otential explanations for the apparent inability of Arctic Terns to exploit saithe, which may relate to the energetics of chick growth and foraging economics.
10.2307/3676016|The standard deviations (SD) of density estimates, obtained for breeding land birds in line transects of the Finnish type, were studied in two regions in southern Finland. A multiple regression analysis revealed that SD can be estimated on the basis of three variables: the estimated average density of the species, the number of transects (median length 4.5-5 km) censused, and a species-specific coefficient used in estimating densities. The regression models "explained" 94-95% of the variation in log SD. The parameters in the models were extremely similar, and therefore a new model was derived by pooling the data. Main belt data yielded greater values of SD than survey belt data, especially if the density of the species was less than 5 <tex-math>$\text{pairs}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>. The models (one for the main belt and the other for the survey belt) were tested by using data from 11 independent regions in Finland and northern Norway. The observed SD values correlated highly significantly with the predicted ones (almost all correlations above 0.95). The correlation was equally high when all regions were analysed simultaneously, showing that the pattern was similar in all regions. The estimated density did not correlate with the error made in the prediction. Because of the good fit of the predictions the method can be used in order to derive estimates of SD (and, as a result, confidence limits) for density estimates obtained in line transects, probably in wide geographical regions in Europe (or elsewhere in areas where general habitat structure is similar).
10.2307/3676134|The female Goldcrest incubates alone and is not regularly fed by her mate. Incubation starts gradually already during the egg-laying period, and may be fully developed before the clutch is completed. From that time onward the hourly mean egg temperature remains remarkably constant, largely independent of time of day and weather conditions. The overall mean egg temperature, recorded during the continuous incubation period, was 36.54C. The female regulated the temperature of the eggs by adjusting her attentive time. This is achieved by (1) varying the duration of the periods-off, which is inversely correlated with air temperature, and (2) varying the duration of the periods-on, which is less influenced by the weather conditions, but is significantly correlated with the time of day (light intensity), on average being shortest during the midday hours.
10.2307/3676263|Ringing recoveries, simulated recoveries and observational data have been used to describe the migration of the Ringed Plover. The analysis indicates the presence of eight wintering regions. These are, the British Isles; southern France and northern Spain; the Iberian peninsula; north west Africa; north east Africa; the Arabian peninsula; western and southern Africa; south east Asia. Allopatric breeding populations occupy the same regions in winter (synheimic) throughout much of the northern and western portions of the winter range. The phenomenon of "leap frog" migration exists, but is less distinct than reported by earlier studies.
10.2307/3676720|Caching and recovery of domestic fowl eggs put out as artificial nests were studied. Caching distance increased with the egg's rank in the predation sequence of each nest, and nearest neighbour distance between eggs cached increased with caching distance. Eggs from nests at intermediate distances from the crows' own nest, and eggs with short caching distances, were cached randomly with respect to direction. Eggs from nests located close to the crows' nest were transported away from the crows' nest before being cached, while eggs from nests located far away from the crows' own nest were carried towards the crows' nest before being cached. Eggs cached near the crows' own nest were opened at the caching site, and the content carried to the nest in several round-trips. Eggs cached farther away were carried whole to an egg shell dump, and opened there. These strategies of caching and recovering eggs seem to be trade-offs between the gain of scattering the caches and the cost of defending them, and between the cost of transport during each recovery and the cost of attracting predators to the crows' own nest due to occurrence of empty egg shells.
10.2307/3676703|Seasonal changes in metabolizable energy intake (MEI), daily energy expenditure (DEE) and apparent dry matter digestibility (ADMD) were examined in captive Svalbard Ptarmigan and Norwegian Willow Ptarmigan. In Willow Ptarmigan neither DEE, MEI nor ADMD underwent seasonal changes. DEE was almost equal to MEI and averaged <tex-math>$115\ {\rm kcal}\cdot {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math>, while ADMD averaged 53%. In August-November MEI of Svalbard Ptarmigan averaged <tex-math>$139\ {\rm kcal}\cdot {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math>, of which 8% was deposited as body fat and protein. During November-March MEI of Svalbard Ptarmigan averaged only <tex-math>$73\ {\rm kcal}\cdot {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math>. ADMD of Svalbard Ptarmigan was only weakly related to food intake. DEE of Norwegian Willow Ptarmigan was close to the value predicted by Kendeigh (1970). Thus, we failed to expose any particular adaptations to life at high latitudes with regard to the presently studied parameters in this species. DEE of Svalbard Ptarmigan fell substantially below predicted values during autumn and winter (August-March). This indicates that Svalbard Ptarmigan reduce their DEE in the autumn to facilitate the deposition of fat and that DEE is kept low throughout the dark part of winter when food is in short supply and energy economy attains supreme importance.
10.2307/3676175|Numbers of breeding pairs, non-breeding individuals, and fledged young of the bird community of an oligotrophic lake (<tex-math>$44\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>) were estimated during 1974. Food consumption of the birds was estimated by means of three methods based on existence energy, standard metabolic rate, and a new regression from estimates of food consumption of birds living in the wild. Energy requirement of the community amounted to <tex-math>$1.9\ {\rm kcal}/{\rm m}^{2}/\text{year}$</tex-math>, of which 1.1 was consumed April to September. This is 0.3 to 0.6 per cent of the estimated primary production. Fish consumption of the birds was estimated at <tex-math>$0.8\ {\rm g}/{\rm m}^{2}/\text{year}$</tex-math>, of which Mergus merganser L. took 62 per cent. Fishermen removed 0.2 to <tex-math>$0.3\ {\rm g}\ \text{fish}/{\rm m}^{2}/\text{year}$</tex-math>. Energy flow through birds in different ecosystems and the role of birds in the lake are discussed. On present evidence the birds cannot be considered detrimental to the fishery.
10.2307/3676507|We recorded the duration of successive dives and pauses during sequences of foraging by wintering Common Eiders Somateria mollissima in the Gulf of St. Lawrence. The length of each pause on the surface between dives increases at an increasing rate with the length of the preceding dive. Based on this relationship, the deviation from the estimated surface time (DEVEST, for short) was computed for each dive. DEVEST is positively correlated over short series of dive-cycles. The significance of these results is discussed and compared with an earlier study on Western Grebes Aechmophorus occidentalis.
10.2307/3676576|Alerstam and Hgstedt (1980) proposed an explanation for 'leap-frog' migration: the wintering of northern-breeding populations of some species in areas further south than those from more southerly breeding areas. They suggested that there is strong selection on birds breeding in areas with marked between-year variation in onset of spring to remain during winter in the same climatic region so that they can respond quickly to favourable conditions; and that this is not possible for arctic-breeding birds, which thus obtain no extra advantage in wintering in the northernmost parts of the possible non-breeding range. We note that they unnecessarily complicated their argument by claiming that the onset of spring is generally less variable between years in arctic than in temperate regions: other studies cast doubt on this. We challenge Alerstam and Hgstedt's hypothesis, particularly in respect of waders on which it is based, on several grounds, namely their assumptions: (i) that there is a premium on birds in all areas starting to breed as early as possible in spring; (ii) that birds wintering in the same climatic region as the breeding area detect suitable conditions before migrating, and adjust their time of departure accordingly; and (iii) that longer migrations add little to the cost of migration. We also find unsound Alerstam and Hgstedt's reinterpretation of Pienkowski and Dick's (1975) study of Dunlin migration, and note problems in several of the other examples cited in support of their hypothesis. We discuss other factors which could lead to the observed migration patterns of shorebirds in western Palaearctic and adjacent areas.
10.2307/3676761|Body temperature was measured by means of implanted temperature sensitive transmitters in 7 Puffin chicks during natural behaviour in the nest burrows. The overall mean body temperature in the smallest chicks (weighing 52 to 106 g, approx. age 9 d) was 38.0C, while chicks weighing 153 to 256 g (15 to 20 d old) had a mean body temperature of 38.5C. The larger chicks showed no diurnal changes in body temperature. However, two daily minima were found in the youngest chicks. The lowest values of T<sub> B</sub> were found at about 03.00 and 18.00 hours, apparently coinciding with the daily maxima in feeding activity. It is suggested that periods of low body temperature in these young chicks is caused by the nonbrooding behaviour of the adults while feeding the chicks and a direct cooling effect of eating cold fish. Low body temperatures (down to 31.1C) were recorded in connection with periods of heavy rainfall.
10.2307/3676480|Body temperature, <tex-math>${\rm O}_{2}\text{-uptake}$</tex-math>, evaporative water loss, ventilation and heat dissipation from the feet were measured at various ambient temperatures in the European Coot Fulica atra. Resting metabolic rate within the thermoneutral zone (20-34C) was <tex-math>$6.08\ {\rm W}\cdot {\rm kg}^{-1}$</tex-math>. Below the lower critical temperature, the standard metabolic rate (SMR) increased according to the formula: <tex-math>${\rm SMR}=12.55-0.33\cdot {\rm T}_{{\rm A}}$</tex-math>, where SMR is expressed in <tex-math>${\rm W}\cdot {\rm kg}^{-1}$</tex-math>, and T<sub> A</sub> is ambient temperature in C. Body temperature averaged 39.6C  0.6C at ambient air temperatures between -28C and 30C. Evaporative heat loss was insufficient to regulate body temperature during heat stress (<tex-math>${\rm T}_{{\rm A}}=40{{}^\circ}{\rm C}$</tex-math>), and prolonged exposure to this temperature when the birds were out of water resulted in hyperthermia. At 20C respiratory frequency and tidal volume were 20 breaths per minute and 9.7 ml per kg, respectively. Moderate heat loads (<tex-math>${\rm T}_{{\rm A}}=35{{}^\circ}{\rm C}$</tex-math>) doubled respiratory frequency, while tidal volume fell slightly. With the feet water immersed, the coots were able to increase heat loss from the feet by a factor of 185 when the ambient temperature was raised from 10C to 40C, indicating a major role of the feet for maintenance of thermal balance.
10.2307/3676719|Vocalizations of Baird's Sandpiper were recorded in northeastern Alaska, U.S.A. Males beat the wings continuously in a loose deep flutter during display flights. They utter Rhythmically Repeated Calls (RRCs), Song and Chatter in display flights, and a Laugh when mildly disturbed. RRCs averaged 690 ms long with intervals between them of 280 ms. They have a "buzzy" quality because they comprise a series of rapidly repeated pulses (pulse rate = 77 Hz). Songs are long, complex, multipartite utterances, and usually include Chatter at the end. Laughs are brief, simple trills consisting of a single element type repeated several times. RRCs, Chatter and Laugh are structurally homologous with call types described for other calidridine species. Phylogenetic affinities and signalling distance account for many of the acoustic features of Calidridini.
10.2307/3676550|Female Great Tits Parus major and Blue Tits Parus caeruleus have longer bills than males in the breeding season while males have longer bills in winter. Using data from a long-term nestbox program we found no relationship between parental bill difference and number of fledglings or fledgling weight. Our data therefore do not support the hypothesis that sexual bill dimorphism is an adaptive response reducing intra-pair competition for food.
10.2307/3676325|Morphology-mediated niche organization among six dabbling duck species was studied by recognizing the morphological (neck length, bill morphology) differences between the species and testing the compatibility of these differences with ecological data (feeding habitat, depth and method, food). The following main results emerged: (1) Differences in neck (and body) length enable differential use of the feeding habitat. This is only partial, however, and the results suggest that feeding habitat is not easily partitioned (horizontally) by means of differences in neck length. A more important function of neck length seems to be (2) the differential use of the feeding depth dimension in the same feeding habitat (i.e. vertically). (3) At the same feeding depth some differences in the use of food type can be achieved by means of differences in bill morphology. Distribution of species in the morphologically defined niche hyperspace and competition-based interpretations of the results are discussed.
10.2307/3676572|Fluctuations in the breeding populations of tits (Paridae) were studied in North Zealand, Denmark, in 1964-1981 on plots with a surplus of nestboxes. Average breeding densities in pairs per 10 ha were about 11, 1 and 6 in coniferous plots and about 15, 5 and 1 in deciduous plots for the Great Tit Parus major, the Blue Tit P. caeruleus and the Coal Tit P. ater, respectively. It was concluded from the data that fluctuations in the Great Tit and Blue Tit breeding populations are closely related to winter food availability. Specifically, among variables describing winter climate and food supply the beechmast production was by far the most important for explaining the population fluctuations of these two species. In addition severe winter climate had some negative effect on the Great Tit, while no such influence was found for the Blue Tit. The conclusions for the Coal Tit are less clear; however, the data suggest that the severity of the winter may be more important than the variation in food production. In addition to results for the three tit species, statistical models for analysis of bird population fluctuations are discussed.
10.2307/3676306|In all 32 recoveries of Yellow-nosed Albatrosses banded on Nightingale, Tristan da Cunha suggest that the immatures migrate to the water off SW-Africa but return to the breeding islands as adults some years later. Only one adult (aged 32 yr) was recovered in SW-African waters. All other birds, aged from 8 to nearly 37 yr, were recovered during nesting season on Nightingale. Recovery rate is ca. 5%.
10.2307/3676831|Seasonal variations in plasma levels of luteinizing hormone (LH), dihydrotestosterone (DHT), testosterone and estradiol (only in females) were studied in free-living adult and juvenile Willow Tits from southwest Sweden. All hormones, except DHT, showed pronounced annual cycles. For both sexes, and both age groups, LH titers showed a typical bimodal pattern with transitional peaks during the breeding period and early autumn. Also, LH levels increased significantly in January and remained elevated throughout the winter. Male plasma levels of testosterone also showed a bimodal pattern with peaks occurring concomitant with LH. The August - September peak was, however, caused by some juveniles having very high plasma levels of testosterone, whereas the majority of juveniles and all adults showed low testosterone levels at this time. Female testosterone values did not vary significantly during the year, but in junvenile females testosterone levels showed a transitional peak in August. Estradiol showed only one significant annual peak - during the breeding period. The winter increase in plasma levels of LH was not accompanied by changes in testosterone, or estradiol, titers. In spring, male LH and testosterone levels started increasing a month earlier than LH and estradiol in females.
10.2307/3676124|In migratory bird species with a breeding range extending from warm temperate to arctic regions, populations from the latter often winter south of the temperate populations (so-called leap-frog migration). We suggest that this is explained by a great adaptive value for birds breeding in temperate areas with a relatively long and irregular spring to remain during winter within the same climatic regime close to their breeding sites in order to respond directly to the development in spring of favourable breeding conditions. The advancement of arctic spring is more regular, and arctic birds may well migrate far away from their breeding sites and still return at optimal breeding time by use of their circannual clock. This is necessary, since once the arctic birds have migrated out of the polar climatic zone, they are prevented from detecting spring progress at their breeding grounds. Migratory patterns are particularly well documented in different species of waders and lend support to this explanation. The Dunlin Calidris alpina has been reported to differ from the expected pattern, birds from W. Europe migrating to NW Africa while many birds from arctic regions winter in Europe. We have examined available evidence and found that this conclusion is unwarranted - the Dunlins wintering farthest to the south in NW Africa probably originate from various areas with a predictable spring (Greenland, Iceland, N. Scandinavian mountains and N. Eurasia), as would be expected from our conjecture. Icelandic breeding populations of different wader species differ widely with respect to the position of their winter quarters in relation to wintering areas of temperate and arctic populations. This suggests that the predictability of Icelandic spring differs considerably between species with different ecological requirements. The regularity and predictability of spring at different major stop-over sites may also be of importance for the segregation of winter quarters between populations from different breeding areas.
10.2307/3676177|This study investigates the relationship between date of pair formation and date of laying in the Common Eider Somateria mollissima (L.) at the Sands of Forvie, Scotland. The birds were individually marked, and many were of known age. Most pairs were formed before mid-winter (22 December); it is thought that most of these were the result of reunification with a previous partner and that they remained intact throughout the winter. Females that paired after mid-winter were mostly two and three-year-old birds, and it is thought they formed new pair-bonds. These late-paired females either did not lay or laid late rather than early in the season. However, the laying dates of females paired before mid-winter were spread right through the season, so that a long association from early pairing did not necessarily lead to early laying. It is nevertheless an advantage for females to pair early and with the previous partner, so as to maintain the pair-bond and to reduce interference to their feeding in spring. Because of male excess (unequal sex ratio), males must also be subject to selection pressure to become paired as early in the season as possible.
10.2307/3676516|In May 1990, more than 4500 km away from, and up to three weeks before arriving on their high Arctic breeding grounds, individuals of two subspecies of Knots, Calidris canutus islandica and canutus, showed ground display and song whilst foraging in flocks on the tidal flats in the Wadden Sea of Schleswig-Holstein, FRG. Similar displays and songs were recorded in May 1987 and 1988 on the staging areas of C.c. islandica in northwest Iceland. The display behaviour, identified as the 'tail-up display', is probably performed only by males towards females, and occurs commonly just after arrival at the tundra breeding sites. Tail-up displays may result in copulations both on the staging and on the breeding sites. On the staging sites, tail-up displays were most frequent in the days prior to the departure of flocks to a subsequent stopover area (Iceland) or for presumed direct flights to the Canadian and the Siberian Arctic. Our observations suggest that the behavioural condition required for reproduction may, at least in males, develop some weeks before the actual arrival in the breeding areas.
10.2307/3675885|A technique is described for attaching a radio transmitter so that its weight is borne by two rectrices without preventing the independent moulting of these feathers. Goshawks equipped in this way did not differ from hawks marked only with leg rings, either in their weight change before being retrapped or in their tendency to leave the area where they were marked.
10.2307/3676829|Here I report the results of nine field experiments with nestboxes made at Trondheim, Norway, during a three year period. By manipulating the positions of nestboxes (i.e. their attractiveness) after male settlement but before female arrival I demonstrated that female Pied Flycatchers Ficedula hypoleuca choose their mates primarily on the basis of nest site quality, not on male quality. Arriving males preferred upright nestboxes to tilted ones, but not to the extent expected from female preference. This was probably related to the fact that constraints of time and energy on the males prevented them from finding the best sites. The conclusion that male and female Pied Flycatchers do not make perfect choices of nest site is important to keep in mind when evaluating models of habitat settlement, such as the density limiting model, the density assessment model and the polygyny threshold model.
10.2307/3676089|Multiple regression technique was applied to analyse the relationship between various ecological and behavioural variables and sexual size dimorphism, among three bird groups: gamebirds, waterfowl and raptors. Several variables were found to be significantly related to sexual size dimorphism, as summarised under the three group headings below: Gamebirds: The extent of paternal investment correlates negatively with sexual size dimorphism, as does reproductive effort, but colour dimorphism is positively correlated with size dimorphism. Waterfowl: Paternal care is also negatively correlated in this group. Other significant variables were degree of nest concealment and species size, both of which correlated positively with size dimorphism. Raptors: Reproductive effort and prey size were both positively related to sexual size dimorphism, but species size showed negative correlation. The results suggest that sexual differences in size have evolved through sexual selection (in the classical sense) to reduce intersexual competition for food, to avoid predators and/or to relieve competition for nesting sites, and for bioenergetic reasons. The relative importance of these selection pressures differs in the three groups. Sexual selection seems to have been most influential among gamebirds, and relatively uninfluential among waterfowl, in which the evolution of size differences seems largely to have been influenced by the behaviour of nesting in holes. Sexual size dimorphism among raptors seems to have evolved purely as a means of relieving intersexual competition, and for bioenergetic reasons.
10.2307/3676333|The race Chersomanes albofasciata longispina is described, its type locality being two miles south of Bimbe on the Humpata Plateau, western Huila, Angola (ab. 15 00 S, 13 20 E). This race is brown above and therefore widely different from other races so far known from Angola, viz., the blackish obscurata which occurs farther north, and the very pale form known from near Moamedes. However, races more or less similar to longispina in colour are widely distributed in the Cape Province and the Transvaal. In other words, there is 'convergent' geographical variation in this lark. Hence it has been necessary to set out the differences between the new race and certain South African races in detail. The geographical variation in Chersomanes albofasciata is discussed.
10.2307/3676238|The Long-tailed Skua was studied in northern Scandinavia 1967-1969. Breeding numbers fluctuated markedly with the abundance of Lemmings, the main food. The pair often co-operated in tearing apart the prey, which was then eaten faster and more completely than by single birds. The female performed most brooding, whereas the male did most hunting and territorial defence. Predators were attacked with swoops, accompanied by two kinds of calls, one used against mammals, the other against birds. These two calls were combined and modified into a long call, used in territorial displays against other skuas. A fourth call was used in one of the three ritualized flight-types. These involved three different typical wing-beat rates. Display postures on the ground were less varied than in gulls, whereas the aerial behaviour was more elaborate, probably owing to the big territories and the open habitat.
10.2307/3676059|During the ten years from 1963 to 1972, the autumn populations of the Willow Grouse Lagopus lagopus (L.) varied according to a 3-4 year cycle in Norway. This was in synchrony with variations in the populations of small rodents. During the ten years, data on age obtained from samples of primaries of about 55,000 Willow Grouse showed that this cycle depends mainly on variations from year to year in the production of young birds.
10.2307/3675989|The paper describes a light altimeter which can be carried by individual birds. The altimeter construction is based on the fact that the range in air for -particles from a naturally radioactive -source is inversely proportional to the density or the air, and that the density of the air decreases in a regular way with the altitude above sea level. The altimeter has been used in experiments with homing pigeons and swifts, and some of the flight altitude registrations are discussed. A method to calculate the time a bird has spent in different altitude intervals is described.
10.2307/3675982|During two seasons, the size of randomly selected broods of Pied Flycatcher was modified. Enlarged as well as reduced broods were formed. A group of unmodified broods was used as a control. Nestling weights and survival rates, as well as female weight loss, were recorded. There was a discernible trend in nestling weight; reduced broods were heavier and enlarged broods were lighter than the unmodified ones, but the trend was statistically significant only during one season. However, in both seasons, there was a significant trend in nestling survival; the proportion of surviving nestlings was larger in the reduced broods and smaller in the enlarged ones compared with the unmodified broods. Due to the increased mortality, enlargement of broods did not result in a higher production of fledglings. Female weight loss during the nestling period was positively correlated to brood size in both seasons.
10.2307/3676280|Based on plumage morphology, notably the degree of plumage dimorphism which may be an important character as indication of intrageneric phylogeny, the affinities of E. morinellus are discussed in relation to two species groups in the genus Charadrius. Group I, the ringed plovers, consists of a number of eurytopic, vagile species rather different from morinellus. Group II, the red-breasted plovers, is apparently closer to morinellus than to the ringed plovers, and it is demonstrated that asiaticus and veredus are particularly close to morinellus. Zoogeographic aspects of these findings reveal that all three are stenotopic and philohiemic (a term proposed for populations conservative as regards winter quarters) and may have evolved in central Asia. The segregation between them is primarily geographical. It is concluded that there is no basis for maintaining the genus Eudromias, which must be considered synonymous with Charadrius.
10.2307/3676488|The foraging behaviour of Dunlin Calidris alpina was studied on a mudflat in eastern England. The distribution of birds was related to the different substrates present on the site. Mud samples were collected to compare the density and biomass of prey and physical properties of the sediment. The invertebrate fauna was dominated by oligochaetes, but the distribution of Dunlin on the site was not directly related to oligochaete density. Most Dunlin fed using tactile stimuli to locate prey in the softest mud. The softer mud was more easily penetrated by a Dunlin's bill, hence the prey were more accessible, so the availability of vulnerable items was greater. A few birds detected prey by sight and these concentrated their feeding in regions where the density of large polychaetes in the sediment was greatest. Patch selection for areas of higher prey accessibility and (possibly) lower foraging costs could be achieved by a simple 'rule of thumb' of selecting wet substrates.
10.2307/3676654|The apparent nutrient and energy costs of moult in Gambel's Sparrows estimated from the materials deposited in the integument are relatively mild compared with the maintenance requirements (5.3% of BMR, and 45% of the minimum maintenance requirement for protein (MMRP)) and with those of reproduction (34% BMR and 165% MMRP), except perhaps for cystine. Measures of the actual costs of moult indicate that processes in addition to plumage synthesis combine to create daily energy costs for peak moult equaling 58% BMR. These processes include (1) recrudescence of the integument, (2) a cyclic osteoporosis, and (3) a large diel cycling in body protein content (as much as 8%). The main adjustments in nutritional requirements during moult are greater needs for protein to supply substrate and for energy. Also, the needs for iron for erythrocyte production (item 1 above) and for calcium for bone formation (item 2 above) presumably increase. Analyses of several food groups reveal that the energy and essential amino acid (EAA) needs for moult can likely be met by a wide variety of food types. When the total daily EAA needs of moulting birds are taken together the profile of the EAA demands is realigned so that the disproportionately high demand for cystine for keratin synthesis is obscured. Consequently, dietary protein can be used more efficiently for whole-body protein synthesis.
10.2307/3676368|Daily field metabolic rates (FMR) during mid winter of two species of coniferous forest tits, Siberian Tit Parus cinctus and Willow Tit Parus montanus were measured with the doubly-labeled water (DLW) technique north of the Arctic circle in Sweden. The Siberian Tit is approximately 10% larger than the Willow Tit. Despite this difference in body mass no significant differences in field metabolic rates between the two species were found in our sample. Both species expended 10-20% less energy than predicted by recently derived allometric equations. Northern populations of Willow Tits had significantly higher FMR and metabolic intensities, M (<tex-math>${\rm M}={\rm FMR}/{\rm BMR}_{{\rm p}}$</tex-math>) than a more southern population. This hints at an intraspecific latitudinal cline in basal metabolic rates (BMR). The two species' predicted metabolic rate at their northern boundary in Scandinavia implies that physiological adaptations to winter conditions of both Siberian and Willow Tits have evolved further to the east within their range where they are exposed to harsher climatic conditions during winter.
10.2307/3676471|Asynchronous hatching, which is widespread among altricial species of birds, has primarily been explained as a mechanism by which the parents can adjust brood size to food availability. This brood reduction hypothesis is analysed, using data obtained from a study of five passerine bird species in Norway, 1978-1981. For each species the total number of young fledged in relation to the number of eggs laid was about 20% lower for nests in which the hatching spread was increased experimentally (to about four days), than in the control nests. This was due to an increased rate of hatching failure and to increased nestling mortality. An increase in hatching losses was very pronounced in the case of the open-nesting species. It is therefore remarkable that these birds in general hatch their eggs relatively asynchronously. Contrary to a prediction from the brood reduction hypothesis, the breeding success of the Great Tit Parus major was reduced to a greater degree in spruce-alder woodland than in rich deciduous woodland when hatching spread was experimentally increased. This was also the case with the breeding success of the Pied Flycatcher Ficedula hypoleuca.
10.2307/3676541|Radio-telemetry measurements were made of deep body temperature ( T<sub> b</sub>) in winter acclimatized Gray Jays Perisoreus canadensis held in an outdoor aviary at 6640'N, 15033'W between 3 December 1987 and 29 January 1988. The diurnal rhythm of T<sub> b</sub> was similar among the three individuals tested. Upon roosting for the night, the birds experienced a gradual drop in T<sub> b</sub> until about 0500-0700 hours. T<sub> b</sub> then levelled off until approximately 0800 when it began to rise sharply to the usual daytime level just before the birds became active. In contrast to a previous study which failed to demonstrate any appreciable nocturnal hypothermic response in a winter-acclimatized Gray Jay, the birds tested in the present study dropped their body temperature at night substantially (range: 4.5 - 6.1C) below their mean daytime temperature of approximately 42C. Moreover, the extent of the hypothermic response was correlated with the minimum overnight air temperature; on colder nights the jays tended to drop their body temperature to a greater extent. These results suggest that Gray Jays may save appreciable amounts of energy during the long, cold nights of the arctic winter as a result of their hypothermic response.
10.2307/3675984|Predation and anti-predator behaviour were studied on the Stands of Forvie, Scotland, during 1973 and 1974. The main predator on eggs of Sandwich Terns was the Black-headed Gull, on chicks the Herring Gull. In experiments with a stuffed Herring Gull, Sandwich Terns had a much lower attack-frequency than Common and Arctic Terns and Black-headed Gulls. In experiments with laid-out eggs, uncovered eggs were safe from predation when among nesting Sandwich Terns, but were heavily preyed upon when laid on the fringe of a subcolony unless they were close to a nest of a Black-headed Gull or another tern species. While the experiments provided evidence of the protection Sandwich Terns obtained by association with other terns, they did not show why Sandwich Terns should prefer nesting in colonies where Black-headed Gulls were present. The latter could be explained by the fact that Black-headed Gulls provided protection about 4 weeks earlier than Common and Arctic Terns.
10.2307/3676617|Three general hypotheses have been advanced to account for latitudinal variation in wintering ranges between the sexes in migratory birds: (1) the larger-bodied sex can endure harsher climates and therefore winters farther north, (2) behavioral dominance forces the subordinate sex to migrate farther south to avoid competition, and (3) intrasexual selection favors early arrival on breeding territories by individuals of one sex, and members of that sex winter farther north to maintain closer proximity to the breeding grounds. For many species of migratory birds, predictions of these three hypotheses are identical. I examined geographic variation in sex ratios of wintering American Kestrels Falco sparverius using Christmas Bird Count data. Female kestrels are larger and presumably more dominant than males, but they do not arrive first on the breeding grounds. Contrary to the body-size and behavioral-dominance hypotheses, male kestrels wintered slightly north of females. However, a review of data from other species with reversed sexual size dimorphism indicates that the arrival-time hypothesis cannot account for all cases of latitudinal segregation between the sexes.
27669763|Using the Emlen technique the migratory directions of spring migrating Redstarts Phoenicurus phoenicurus and Bluethroats Luscinia svecica were compared. The Redstart, representing a SW  NE migrating species, and the Bluethroat, representing a SE  NW migrating species, were supposed to have crossing migratory routes in the Gulf of Bothnia. However, Redstarts showed the same migratory direction, towards NNW-N, as Bluethroats. Possibly, the northern breeding populations of some species follow routes and directions different from those used by more southerly breeding populations of the same species. It is suggested that a migratory divide between populations arriving in spring from SW and SSE, respectively, exists in many bird species in Fennoscandia.
10.2307/3676210|The history and distribution of the Rook in Fennoscandia and European Rook censuses are briefly reviewed, and a discovery of bones of the species, dated to 1020-1050, from the city of Lund, Scania, is published. Two censuses of the Rook in Denmark, from 1909 and 1960-1963, are analyzed, and their results are evaluated with the aid of bag and field records from the island of Bornholm. Four complete censuses of the rookeries in Scania were made by the author with the following results as to nests: 11,075 in 1955-1957, 5113 in 1964-1967, 6693 in 1968, and 8271 in 1969. Rook census methods are discussed under the headings Rookery Finding, Nest Counting, and Census Time. Comparisons show that abrupt fluctuations of greater populations are known only from Nottinghamshire, England, and Scania, Sweden. In these cases there are suspicions of pesticide influence.
10.2307/3676835|Some insectivorous birds and most insectivorous bats catch their prey in flight. This puts large demands on flight manoeuvrability and agility and calls for specialized adaptations in wing design. Aerial foraging is facilitated by low body mass and low wing loading, permitting high manoeuvrability and slow flight. Birds and bats with similar ecological foraging modes (aerial-foraging in open spaces or among vegetation) show strong convergence in wing shape. Birds foraging in open areas (swifts, swallows) show similarities with open-field foraging bats, whereas birds hunting among or close to vegetation (flycatchers, Nightjar) are more like bats hawking near or within vegetation. The specific flight costs are lower (because of higher wing aspect ratios) in all the bats and in those birds that hawk insects in open areas than in birds that hawk among vegetation or that do not hawk insects in the air at all. The latter group is rather different from aerial-hawking birds and bats in wing design.
10.2307/3676746|Resting metabolic rate was measured at different ambient temperatures in Svalbard Ptarmigan, Norwegian Rock Ptarmigan and Norwegian Willow Ptarmigan at different times of the year. All three species/subspecies exhibited a significant decrease in mass-specific resting metabolism from summer to winter. At both seasons resting metabolism was higher than predicted by Aschoff and Pohl (1970), but lower than the predictions of Weathers (1979) for all three species/subspecies. The mass-specific conductance (MSC) was significantly (P < 0.05) lower, i.e. insulation was better, in winter than during summer in Svalbard Ptarmigan and Willow Ptarmigan, while Rock Parmigan did not show seasonal changes in MSC. MSC of all three species/subspecies was lower than predicted both by Herreid and Kessel (1967) and by Aschoff (1981), both in summer and in winter. MSC of Svalbard Ptarmigan was significantly lower than MSC of Rock Ptarmigan and Willow Ptarmigan, both in summer and in winter. During spring (March-May) when the Svalbard Ptarmigan is still in winter plumage, but devoid of subcutaneous fat, the MSC was the same as during summer. This indicates that the subcutaneous deposits of fat contribute significantly to the thermal insulation of these high-arctic birds during winter.
10.2307/3676448|Mate-feeding was studied at 13 nests in a colony of Lesser Kestrels Falco naumanni. Additionally, the seasonal variation in body mass of males and females was investigated throughout the breeding cycle. On average, mate-feedings (n = 783) began 54 d after the pair's first copulation and 16.5 d before the laying of the first egg, and lasted 23.7 d. Body mass of females increased from the beginning of the mate-feeding period and peaked at egg-laying. Males' body masses were less variable and tended to decrease from the mate-feeding period to the end of the breeding cycle. Our results suggest that mate-feeding is not relevant to pair formation, although it cannot be discounted that this behaviour may be important in tightening the pair-bond. The most evident function of mate-feeding in the Lesser Kestrel seems to be to increase the female's body mass, possibly to allow the laying of earlier and larger clutches. In fact, the start of the mate-feedings was correlated with laying date, and the earlier the laying, the larger the clutch.
10.2307/3676104|Adult survival rate of the Black-throated Diver Gavia arctica was calculated from 76 published long-distance recoveries of birds ringed on spring migration in the southeastern part of the Baltic and found to be 0.89, with minimum 95% confidence limits at 0.87 and 0.91. The reproductive rate necessary to maintain a stable population with this mortality is probably 0.4-0.5 fledged young per pair. This reproduction rate was compared with those observed in different field studies, the latter being markedly lower in four out of five comparisons.
10.2307/3676166|Diving ducks wintering on the coasts of Scania showed an uneven distribution that was partly caused by differences in the abundance of food and the availability of suitable resting places, partly by tradition. Differences in diving ability between species were reflected in the local distribution. The main food of the bottom-diving species was Mytilus edulis, but there was variation in additional food items amongst the different species. Calculated rates of exploitation in different parts of the study areas showed that food resources were sufficient for much larger numbers of ducks than were present.
10.2307/3676692|The paper analyses the interrelations between Turnstones and larids at Valassaaret, west coast of Finland. Turnstones are highly significantly attracted to larid colonies, but growth of the larid population can increase the number of Turnstones only to a certain degree. Turnstones react to gulls as potential predators on eggs and young, and to both gulls and terns as a source of protection from other predators. Larids pay little attention to Turnstones, even though these prey heavily upon larid eggs. There is much individual and local variation in the egg-robbing behaviour. On the most exploited islets Turnstones may destroy up to 67-100% of the nests of Larus canus and Sterna paradisaea. They also take fish brought to the tern chicks. Egg-robbing is considered learned, but the species' innate foraging behaviour (overturning objects) and the stout beak have facilitated the learning process.
27669759|We examined the relationships between flock structure and food availability, patch quality, spacing, and population size in wintering Common Cranes Grus grus. Using principal component analysis we simplify 10 flock variables to 4 major variation components which define respectively (1) dispersion pattern of the birds, (2) flock dispersal from the roost, (3) flock spacing pattern, and (4) feeding effort. We investigate the effects of number of birds, food abundance and spacing and quality of feeding patches on the principal components defined. The results indicate that an increase in patch quality correlates positively with flock size and density. A decrease in total food availability forces the birds to fly on average longer distances from the roost to forage. Independently, the same effect is observed in response to an increase in the number of birds. Flocks that fly to feed at longer distances from the roost select feeding patches of high quality, reduce the variance of their structural components, and increase their feeding intensity, probably to compensate for the long distance dispersal. We suggest that the higher unpredictability of the food location due to increased farming activity is the cause of the daily flocking enhancement in autumn and spring.
10.2307/3676295|During a warm and dry summer crops of 0-27 day-old chicks contained nearly twice as much food by dry weight as during an extremely wet and cold summer. Weather did not influence the ratio of insects and plants in the diet but greatly influenced the insect prey selection. During the warm summer chicks selectively fed on larvae (80%), while in the cold summer they fed mainly on smaller insects like Cicadinae, Aphidinae, and adult Diptera. A drop in mean ambient temperature from 19.5 to 9C and rain reduced the available feeding time for 2-5 day-old chicks by about 60%. This reduced feeding time was caused by shorter feeding periods (mean of 20.8 and 7.8 min) and longer resting periods during evening and night. Evidence is also presented that in bad weather young chicks avoid habitats with dense vegetation (which supports the best food supply) to avoid becoming wet. Extremely cold and wet weather is suggested to be critical in preventing sufficient food intake in Willow Grouse chicks.
10.2307/3676322|Moult was studied in a population of Lesser Redpolls Carduelis flammea cabaret breeding in Nottinghamshire, England during 1977-79. A modified linear regression technique for 'date on moult score' was developed to estimate adult moult commencement dates and rates of progress. About 85% of each sex normally commenced moult within separate 3-week periods, females starting 6 d later than males on average. Mean population moult durations (53-60 d in this study) were shown to be at least partially dependent on commencement dates, so that there were considerable annual variations; late breeding seasons resulted in shorter moulting periods. Latitudinal differences in moult parameters suggested by earlier authors could not be confirmed on re-analysis of their data, because of annual variations and incomplete sampling through the moult period. Some breeding birds which had commenced moulting were able to reduce energy requirements, either by slowing feather growth or by suspending their moult temporarily. Juveniles from early broods commenced their autumn moult in the second-half of July and completed by early September, moving away from the moulting areas before the adults. In 1978, many juveniles from later broods had not even commenced moult by mid-September when the study terminated. Juvenile autumn moult duration was about 6-7 weeks.
10.2307/3676005|In 1977 and 1978 respectively, 3 and 4 territorial Willow Warbler males were removed with mist-nets in a subalpine birch woodland in Ammarns, Swedish Lapland. Each year one new male established a territory in the vacated area. The surrounding males enlarged their territories slightly but not much enough to fill up all of the emptied area. In control areas no changes occurred. It is concluded that territorial behaviour of the stationary males exclude some males of the same species from establishing territories. The new males probably failed to get breeding partners and it is thereby possible that the reproductive output of the population was not affected by the exclusion of some males from breeding.
10.2307/3676404|During a study of territorial behaviour of the Pygmy Owl in NE Italy we used spectrographic analyses of recorded territorial calls to distinguish individual males. Two temporal parameters and the mean fundamental frequency of the song were selected and measured. All parameters of calls varied significantly within the population and discriminant analysis correctly classified 84.6% of the individual Pygmy Owls. Most individuals differed from each other with respect to the three selected parameters.
10.2307/3676510|We surveyed several offshore islands around Culebra for nesting Zenaida Doves and seabirds to determine if the doves preferred islands with nesting seabirds, and whether or not the doves selected the same types of sites on all islands. Doves nested on eight of the islands with seabirds, and did not nest on four islands that were devoid of nesting seabirds. Nest-site characteristics differed among the islands, although there were no inter-island differences with respect to nest size, slope at the nest, and percent of the nest visible from above and from 1 m. Thus slope and nest visibility seem to be significant habitat cues for nesting Zenaida Doves.
10.2307/3676081|The food of a Long-eared Owl population was examined in relation to the abundance of important prey during three years in an open field area in southern Sweden. About 7800 individual vertebrate prey items were identified. The prey biomass consisted mainly of field vole (80-90% during winter), water vole (15-65% during summer), birds (10-60% during summer), and wood mouse (5-25% during the year). The prey choice showed pronounced seasonal and smaller yearly changes. During winter one prey species (field vole) constituted most of the food: in summer the diet became more varied, probably due to decreased availability of field voles and increased availability of some larger prey (water voles and birds). In summer two to four prey species made up the bulk of the food. The food niche was about three times broader in summer than in winter. The total number of prey categories included in the diet was higher in winter and thus showed an opposite seasonal pattern as compared with the number of prey species forming the main food. Calculated preference indices were high for the field vole in autumn and winter, and for the wood mouse in summer, which may be explained by changed profitability to the owl of the habitats. Predictions from optimal foraging theory are discussed in relation to the field data.
10.2307/3676409|Egg laying, egg attendance by females, and egg loss were studied in the Common Eider Somateria mollissima. Clutch size fixation appeared to occur before the first egg was laid (determinate laying). Intervals between the laying of eggs were usually about 24 h. Permanent egg attendance started before clutch completion (4 to 6 eggs), usually from the second egg on, and was independent of the actual number of eggs in the nest and final clutch size. Egg loss during inattentive periods was 80 times higher than during attendance. Spontaneous breaks in incubation occurred at intervals of 1-3 days, but sometimes a female left 2 or 3 times a day. Breaks were used for drinking and lasted between a few min and 2.5 h. Females left most frequently in the first few hours after sunset. The ducklings hatched nearly synchronously except the last egg, which hatched on average 8 h later than the others. Early egg attendance, fasting during incubation, and leaves during night hours will have evolved for clutch protection.
10.2307/3676313|Reproductive traits of the Pied Flycatcher Ficedula hypoleuca were studied at three biogeographically different localities in Finland: Helsinki (60N, south boreal), Oulu (65N, mid-boreal) and Kilpisjrvi (69N, sub-arctic area, where the species is a newcomer). Clutch size decreased regularly with the date of laying, thus being smallest in the north. Average female size and weight and egg size were the same in the south and the north. Environmental variance in egg size was greater in the north, but the female component was still considerable (about 50%). Egg size correlated negatively with clutch size in the south, but the correlation changed to positive towards the north. At Kilpisjrvi female weight ("fatness") rather than size determined egg size and hatching success. The short and small eggs did not hatch well in the north, probably because (1) small eggs are laid by lightweight females, which cannot incubate for as long periods as heavier females, especially during the frequent cold spells, and (2) lightweight females lay inferior eggs, which are more sensitive to cold weather. Selection pressure for large egg size seemed strong in the north.
10.2307/3675881|Tawny Pipit nests are usually orientated towards E or N. It is suggested that this will reduce predation rates and lower temperature in the nest by giving shade during the hottest part of the day. This is supported by temperature measurements in exposed and shaded nests and by experimental exposure of nests. The unpredictability of the weather in temperate regions makes this adaptation less precise since exposed nests are probably being favoured in rainy years. Destruction of clutches in exposed nests will cause re-layings and result in a protracted breeding season.
10.2307/3676810|Breeding biology and site tenacity of the Siberian Tit were studied in northernmost Finland in moderately managed and heavily thinned forests. In moderately managed forests nesting success (82%) and number of fledglings/nest (6.6) were significantly higher than those in heavily thinned forests (58% and 5.0, respectively). Nestling starvation accounted for most of these differences, because neither hatching success nor predation pressure differed between the two types of forest. Nestlings had significantly longer wings in moderately managed forests just before fledging at the age of 15 d. Therefore also fledgling mortality is probably higher in heavily thinned areas. Clutch size was slightly higher in the heavily thinned (8.6, N = 26) than in the moderately managed area (8.0, N = 38). This difference was due to 3 d earlier commencement of egg-laying in the former area. Clutch size decreased by <tex-math>$0.12\ \text{eggs}\ {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math> with advancing laying date. Mean density of pairs was 4.2 in the moderately managed and <tex-math>$1.5\ {\rm km}^{-2}$</tex-math> in the heavily thinned area. Males, females or pairs moved on the average 430 m (N = 16, range 0-1500 m) between successive breeding seasons. Adult birds had a yearly survival rate of at least 49%. In autumn and winter they were observed within less than 500 m of their earlier breeding site thus indicating that these birds are sedentary. Of the 465 fledglings ringed in 1983-88, only one was later recorded breeding. Heavily thinned areas are suboptimal habitats for the Siberian Tit in terms of density, offspring production, nesting success and fledgling size. In the Siberian Tit, density seems to be a good measure of habitat quality. Lowered nesting success caused by heavy forest management is probably connected with the drastic decline of the Siberian Tit during the past decades.
10.2307/3676115|119 Ceryle rudis were collected in the period from January 1970 to August 1971 in Zambia near Namwala on the Kafue Flats, and their food intake analysed. The only insect eaten to an appreciable extent was Anisoptera larva, which amounted to 24.1% by number. The most important fish were Alestes spp., 16.9%; Barbus spp., 16.9%; and Ciclidae, 32.3%, by numbers. The digestive stages of the stomach contents, combined with field observations, revealed that the birds feed 4 times a day. They regurgitate the indigestible remains between each meal. The average daily food intake approximated to 18.4 grams, or 24.6% of the body weight. Two hand-reared birds had a daily food intake of 26.5% and 24% of their body weight during the last 15 days before independence. The average number of fish eaten per day per bird was 7.2, of which 44% were Ciclidae.
10.2307/3676351|The weights of waders in autumn, soon after their arrival in north-west Africa, and the subsequent changes in weight until early winter are compared with patterns known from Europe and elsewhere. Throughout the period, for most species weights, and probably levels of fat and protein, were considerably lower in north-west Africa than in Britain. Many birds arrived with extremely low weights; some, extremely emaciated, were found dead or dying. Waders with similar reductions in weight have been found dead in cold weather in temperate and arctic areas. Some weight increases probably due to fat deposition occurred in onward migrants. Apart from these, no increases in weights were observed for waders in north-west Africa in late autumn and winter, unlike those wintering in north-west Europe. In all species weights remained much lower than those of the same species wintering in Britain, where fat reserves cause mid-winter peaks in weight. It is argued that where adverse weather conditions are infrequent, and therefore the need for fat and protein reserves unlikely, there are advantages in keeping weight low by minimizing such reserves.
10.2307/3676874|The variation in egg size of Canada Geese Branta canadensis was examined in a wild and captive population in southern Alberta, Canada. Most variation (60%) in fresh egg mass and egg volume was explained by differences among females. Variance in size of eggs within a clutch accounted for about 30% of the total variance. Multiple correlation analysis revealed a positive but weak relationship (<tex-math>${\rm r}{}_{{\rm p}}{}^{2}=16\%$</tex-math>) between mean egg size and female condition. Mean egg size was not correlated with clutch size. Although egg size of captive females had high indices of repeatability, the lack of environmental variability between repeated measurements prevented estimation of the importance of genetic differences.
10.2307/3676847|Kirikov's (1944) method for determining the age of Capercaillie from skull ossification was re-examined using Scottish birds shot in October-January. For both sexes, young of the year, yearlings and adults were readily recognized. The claim that adults can be separated into further age-classes may be true for cocks but was not confirmed for Scottish hens. Freshly-shot cocks, but not hens, can be separated into young, yearlings and adults from measurements of beak depth and head width, without the need to prepare skulls.
10.2307/3676885|Experimentally changed clutch size did not affect hatching success in Blue Tits whereas the incubation period was longer for larger clutches.
10.2307/3676607|Several Central European populations of tetraonids are threatened with extinction. Adaptations to survive periods of heavy hoarfrost evolved in tetranoids prior to the destruction of habitat by pollution and other anthropogenic factors. The following paper discusses the direct and indirect implications of hoarfrost in the extinction process.
10.2307/3676916|Habitat, spacing pattern and survival of Capercaillie Tetrao urogallus were studied in southeast Norway during the winters 1981-87 using 65 radio-marked birds. Adult males (3.5 yr) preferred old, pine-dominated forests close to their lekking grounds. Subadult males (0.5, 1.5, 2.5 yr) and females (>0.5 yr) were distributed more independently of leks and utilized middle-aged (>7 m) pine plantations besides older, natural forest. Spruce-dominated forests and younger plantations were avoided by all sex/age groups. Home range size of subadult males (98.4 ha) was significantly larger than that of adults (63.5 ha) which was significantly larger than that of females (26.8 ha). During late winter (1 Mar - 15 Apr), adult males concentrated within 400 m of leks, subadult males occupied the peripheral zone between 400 and 800 m of leks, and most females stayed further than 800 m away from leks. When leks were only attended by subadult males, such males concentrated within 400 m of lek centres, thus further suggesting that adult males exclude subadults from the vicinity of leks in late winter. Hens retreated to interlek regions with low male density, possibly to avoid male courting interference. Males in highly fragmented habitats stayed farther away from their lekking grounds than males in less fragmented areas during midwinter. Birds living in highly fragmented habitats had larger home ranges and lower survival than other birds.
10.2307/3676659|In laying hens, the primary sources of progesterone ( P<sub>4</sub>) are the granulosa cells of the 4-5 largest follicles in the hierarchy of the ovary. During forced moulting, cessation of egg production occurs with ovarian atrophy and a decrease in P<sub>4</sub> as well as in luteinizing hormone. While it is reported that follicular atresia as well as the P<sub>4</sub> decrease are the result of a reduced luteinizing hormone (LH) stimulation, P<sub>4</sub> decrease occurred already during the second or third day after food withdrawal while atresia occurred only several days later. Since P<sub>4</sub> decrease at the beginning of moult induction cannot simply be explained by the lack of large follicles the aim of this study was to determine whether the rapid decrease in P<sub>4</sub> after food withdrawal is only related to a decreased hypophyseal stimulus and/or a concomitant change in follicular sensitivity as well. Granulosa cells from follicles F<sub>1</sub> to F<sub>4</sub> were collected according to the method of Gilbert et al. (1977). Cell number was estimated with a haemocytometer and viability by trypan blue exclusion technique. Cell suspension was diluted to <tex-math>$10^{5}\ \text{cells}\ {\rm ml}^{-1}$</tex-math> in M199 and incubated for 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8 and 24 h with or without oLH, and P<sub>4</sub> secretion in the medium was assayed by RIA. Short-term starvation increased P<sub>4</sub> response in vitro to oLH indicating a higher sensitivity of granulosa cells of follicles from all classes to oLH. In an additional experiment, in vivo injections of different doses of LH also showed an enhanced increase in P<sub>4</sub> the first days of food restriction. Therefore, the rapid decrease in P<sub>4</sub> after feed withdrawal is not due to a decreased follicular sensitivity but to a decrease in stimulatory factor(s).
10.2307/3676598|In the north-east Black Forest, 37 young Capercaillie reared in captivity were radio-tagged and released in August/September in 1984-1989. A high mortality of 95% was caused by fox, marten, Goshawk and accidents. In the first two weeks after release, 57% died and only two cocks survived the first winter. Released hens moved further than cocks. In the first spring, one cock visited several neighbouring lek sites, including some which had been abandoned for a long time. Habitat selection by released Capercaillie was similar to that of wild birds in the area. Open mixed pine forests, rich in bilberry, were preferred as well as edges and mixed-aged stands.
10.2307/3676279|Measurements of body parts and colour reflection in 1260 birds from northwestern Europe have previously been statistically treated by the author. A brief survey of the results is given here. The pale British Larus argentatus argenteus should be recognized as a valid subspecies representing the most distinct form of all Herring Gulls. The marked differences between this subspecies and the nominate argentatus are supported by the timing of the moult of the primaries. The Fennoscandian Herring Gulls form continuous clines in a series of taxonomic parameters representing the nominate L. argentatus argentatus, of which L. argentatus omissus is purely a synonym. Larus fuscus intermedius is a well-marked subspecies, in its typical form inhabiting southern Norway and western Sweden. The nominate and darkest form, L. fuscus fuscus, inhabits northern Norway and the Baltic. New data on the moulting of primaries support previously found differences between these two subspecies.
10.2307/3676305|Dialects both on a local and a continental scale are found in the Yellowhammer Emberiza citrinella. Various aspects of dialect distribution in an overlap area in Denmark are described. Males were closer to each other than expected from a random distribution, probably due to habitat patchiness. Distances to similar dialect males were shorter than to dissimilar ones. Among two dialect groups nearest neighbours did more often sing similar than dissimilar songs. Territories were often changed between years, and habitat preferences within a dialect group of Yellowhammers could not be found. Some song post characteristics (height, fraction of birds at a maximum height) differed between dialects. Yellowhammers with different dialects used different nest sites, even if sites were chosen by females. These differences may be brought about by kin association.
10.2307/3676311|During cold and wet summers 0-8 d old chicks from small (2-6 chicks) Willow Grouse Lagopus lagopus lagopus broods grew faster and survived better than chicks from large broods (8-14 chicks). Chicks from large broods spent longer time being brooded by the hen and had consequently shorter time available for feeding than chicks from small broods. These results agree with the finding that cold and wet weather prevents sufficient food intake in Willow Grouse chicks.
10.2307/3676212|The influence of a spraying with DDT over Whitethroat territories was studied in South Sweden. Atmospheric fall-out, vegetation, insects and Whitethroat young were sampled and analysed for chlorinated hydrocarbons. The stomach contents of 46 Whitethroat young were examined. Samples of vegetation, insects and Whitethroat young from sprayed territories had significantly higher concentrations of  DDT compared with unsprayed territories. The proportion of metabolites in samples from unsprayed territories and territories sprayed with 0.2 1 DDT/ha was higher than in territories sprayed with 2.0 1 DDT/ha. The total concentration of DDT was always higher in breast muscles than in brain tissues of the same bird. Starved young had higher levels of  DDT in both breast muscles and brain tissues than unstarved young.
10.2307/3676727|The interspecific territorial relationships of Acrocephalus warblers in Europe are reviewed and compared with those of marsh-inhabiting species in North America. In each pair of species, one arrives on the marsh early, establishes territories, is interspecifically aggressive, and eventually loses habitat space to the later arriving species. The second species arrives later, is less or not at all interspecifically aggressive, has smaller territories or no territories or is larger in size, and usurps habitat already occupied by the earlier arriving species. I interpret the non-agressiveness and the smaller territories of late arriving species to be adaptations that permit them to occupy territories in habitat already occupied by an aggressive, territorial species. The larger size of two late arriving species may be adaptations or, more likely, preadaptations, permitting them to establish territories in already occupied habitat. Interspecific aggression of the early arriving species in these cases seems to be a non-adaptive consequence of the two species possessing features that stimulate intraspecific aggression.
10.2307/3676690|The proportion of birds showing distraction display changed considerably between years, increasing gradually from 1979 to 1982, and decreasing from 1982 to 1983. The pattern was similar in both sexes. Neither the proportion nor the intensity of distraction display shown by parents during the first three weeks after hatching showed any significant variation with the age of their chicks. The proportion of distraction display shown by cocks was positively correlated with the number of pairs km<sup>-2</sup>. No correlation was found between the proportion of distraction display and age distribution, physical condition, and phenological development, for either hens or cocks. Although no significant correlation was found between chick production and the proportion of distraction display for the whole population, mean brood size was significantly larger where parents showed distraction display than where they did not. The proportion of broods accompanied by both parents varied insignificantly between 74% in 1982 and 89% in 1980. Broods accompanied by both parents were larger than broods accompanied by lone hens, though not significantly so. From 1979 to 1982, the proportion of cases where both parents in a pair showed identical distraction behaviour gradually decreased from 86 to 60%, and then increased to 70% in 1983. When there was discrepancy in the intensity of distraction display within pairs, hens more often gave the stronger display.
10.2307/3676664|Various passerines enhance their cold resistance in winter through a form of metabolic acclimatization. This involves an improved ability to sustain elevated rates of regulatory thermogenesis, primarily through shivering. This muscular activity depends principally on catabolism of fatty acids. Significantly, establishment and daily replenishment of substantial fat reserves are associated with winter acclimatization in many passerines. This acclimatization also appears linked with winter increases in the activities of certain catabolic enzymes in skeletal muscle, notably -hydroxyacyl Co-A dehydrogenase and phosphofructokinase. The factors that initiate and regulate winter acclimatization in passerines are poorly understood. The metabolic character of this form of adjustment, which certainly involves processes affecting deposition, mobilization, and use of energy substrates assures that an array of hormones will be involved. We review several possible candidates, emphasizing glucagon, corticosterone, and the thyroid hormones. Recent studies indicate seasonal variation in levels of thyroid hormones, but not of corticosterone in free-living individuals of the American Goldfinch Carduelis tristis, a prominent species in studies of passerine winter acclimatization.
10.2307/3675919|Certain factors which appear to be decisive in habitat selection by breeding Thrush Nightingales are set out. This species favours deciduous coppices which are usually low and shady. Some dense thickets providing good shelter are always present in the territories. A proportion of bare ground without field vegatation is also important because the species feeds mostly on the ground. The small coppices where territories are established occur in open environments, near water or fields; this improves the audibility of the birds song. The position of the Thrush Nightingale in the bird community is also presented. It belongs to the guild of ground feeders, but unilke most other species of this guild is strongly adapted for foraging inside woodlands. On the other hand, it is also partly able to utilize other zones of vegatation. It can sometimes forage in field vegetation, on branches and boughs of trees, or even in the air. Its main diet consists of insects, mostly Lepidopteran larvae. In terms of habitat requirements and morphological similarities, the Thrush Nightingale has only two potential competitors, the Robin Erithacus rubecula L. and the Redwing Turdus iliacus L. However, the competition between these species seems usually to be weak. The effect of man on habitats is presumably the most important reason for population fluctuations of the Thrush Nightingale in Finland.
10.2307/3675891|The nesting of the Canada Goose and the Greylag Goose was studied in some archipelagoes in the Straits of Kalmar. Compared with the Greylag Goose, the Canada Goose nests in more open terrain, claims a larger territory, and shows a more pronounced territorialism. Most attacks were intraspecific but the Canada Geese often attacked Greylag Geese as well, although they tolerated these at closer distance than conspecifics. In some instances Canada Geese seemed to prevent Greylag Geese from nesting within their territories, but on the whole it is possible for the Greylag Goose to breed successfully with the larger and stronger Canada Goose. Both species have shown a numerical increase in the investigated area.
10.2307/3676844|Four mate guarding variables (start of guarding, end of guarding, length of the guarding period, intensity of guarding) were studied in 51 nesting cycles of Swallows Hirundo rustica. Mate guarding was affected by attributes of the male (high body weight and old age leading to guarding ending late) and by external social factors (colonial Swallows starting to guard early, for a long time, at a high rate, but ending earlier than solitary males; less male biased operational sex ratio leading to a low guarding intensity; males starting to guard late in the nesting cycle did so for a short period and at a low guarding intensity, and their female mates experienced more extra-pair copulations than those of other males). Mate guarding may be costly to males, and accordingly those Swallows starting to guard with a high body weight were able to end their guarding period later than other males. Guarding males may incur an opportunity cost by guarding rather than engaging in extra-pair copulations. Male Swallows experiencing less male biased operational sex ratios during their guarding period finished mate guarding earlier than other males.
10.2307/3676141|Observations made on the Varangerfjord, N. E. Norway, during 1974 indicate that there is a large Dunlin passage through the area. Ringing recoveries suggest that juveniles which pass through the area during August move down the west coast of Norway, whilst adults, moving through during July, take a more easterly route, moving overland to the Gulf of Bothnia and into the Baltic.
10.2307/3676861|Niche relationships of three sympatric Strix owl species in Finland were studied with respect to four environmental parameters: activity, food, breeding habitat and nest-site. The niches of Ural and Tawny Owls have the highest mutual overlap indicating possible interspecific competition, which may cause the patchy occurrence of the Tawny Owl in southern Finland. The Ural Owl has the widest niche, that of Tawny Owl is 73% and that of Great Grey Owl only 48% of the niche of the first-mentioned species. The Great Grey Owl is a r-strategist, which has adapted to the vole cycles in the northern taiga zone by being nomadic, opportunistically selecting its breeding habitats, using commonly available nest-sites, being a vole specialist, laying large clutches and being active during day and night. The Tawny Owl again is adapted to the more stable, southern environment, since it breeds in productive habitats, is a food generalist, as a resident species defends its nest-hole, is nocturnal and a K-strategist. Considering distribution, breeding habitat and daily activity, the Ural Owl is intermediate, but because of its large size it is capable of being a food generalist, resident and a K-strategist. Thus, the life-history traits of the three owl species agree relatively well with the correlates of r-and K-selection, apart from the large size of the Great Grey Owl. This may be an adaptation to the capturing of voles below the deep snow and to the hard wintering and breeding conditions.
10.2307/3676619|Insectivorous passerines were trapped during autumn and spring migration in an <tex-math>$0.02\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> Sinai desert oasis 300 km south and 2000 km north of the northern and the southern edges of the birds' cross-desert route. Mean number of recaptures and mean number of days between first and last captures were used for estimating the lengths of common species' stopover periods and the size of their stopping-over populations, assuming a constant probability of staying an additional day and a constant daily probability of capture. Ca 80% of the birds were captured only once, and probably stayed one day. Species' mean observed and estimated stopovers ranged from 1 to 5 d and 1.5 to 13.6 d, respectively. More birds stopped-over, and stopovers were on the average longer, (a) in autumn than in spring, (b) in early than in late autumn, (c) in late than in early spring, (d) in species and seasons with large stopping-over populations, (e) in females than in males (in two species with sexual dimorphism) in spring, and (f) in species encountering the oasis early on their autumn route than in species reaching it late. We propose that numbers alighting and stopover lengths depend on when and where an oasis is encountered. Birds tend to overfly oases or to stop for only one day either when the oasis is close to the point of migration initiation or when it is advantageous to reach breeding territories fast.
10.2307/3676711|The allocation of mammals, lizards, and insects captured by a nesting Great Grey Shrike and a nesting Kestrel hunting in the same clear-cut was recorded. Both predators carried most mammals (large prey) to the nest, and consumed all insects (small prey) at the capture site. The small predator (Great Grey Shrike) carried most lizards (medium-sized prey) to the nest, whereas the large predator (Kestrel) consumed most lizards at the capture site, although the distance from lizard capture sites to the nest did not differ between the two predators. If the allocation pattern found applies in general, traditional nest-based food analyses overstimate the proportion of lizards in the overall diet of the Great Grey Shrike and underestimate it in the Kestrel.
10.2307/3676571|The seasonal changes in body composition of Rock Ptarmigan from northern Norway were examined. Body composition remained essentially stable throughout the year, but apparent changes related to the digestive system took place. The caeca increased in weight from 22 g in September to 48 g in March. The amount of dissectible body fat was negligible throughout the year. Our data indicate that, unlike the Svalbard Ptarmigan, the Norwegian Rock Ptarmigan is not adapted to withstand prolonged periods of starvation at any time of the year.
10.2307/3676225|The synchronous fledging of young Guillemots Uria spp. has been considered an adaptation to reduce predation. The timing of 326 fledgings and of 73 predation attempts was recorded at Bear Island. The actual predation rate is low (0.6-2.2 per cent) when fledglings drop directly onto the sea. It is substantially increased (17.5 per cent) when access to the sea is hampered by difficult terrain. Synchronous fledging at colonies with difficult terrain. does reduce predation by overwhelming predators with the numbers of the young.
10.2307/3676806|Annual variations in the total nitrogen content of Red Grouse faeces in spring reflected variations in the growth and N content of their main food, ling heather Calluna vulgaris. The N metabolism of birds eating low-protein, high-polyphenol diets such as heather is poorly understood. This was described by analysing the N in faeces into six chemical fractions. Variation in these fractions was partitioned statistically into principal components on the working assumption that each component reflected a distinct metabolic process. Annual variations in the first principal component were related to the amount of overwinter dieback in the heather but not to the heather's total N content or growth. Variations in the second were closely related to the total N content and growth of heather but not to overwinter dieback. Protein appeared to be in short supply in the birds' diet. However, annual variations in the first principal component of faecal N occurred independently of the total N contents of food and faeces. Therefore the total N content of the birds' diet probably did not reflect its nutritive value and total faecal N was probably not a reliable index of dietary quality. No measured aspect of N metabolism was related to the birds' breeding success.
10.2307/3676649|The present study investigates territorial behaviour in response to a simulated intrusion into the territory, and plasma levels of reproductive hormones of both sexes of migratory European Robins Erithacus rubecula in the wintering and the breeding area. Males and females aggressively defended individual territories and sang in the wintering area. In the breeding area only males defended territories and sang. Males defending winter territories had low, while males defending breeding territories had elevated levels of luteinizing hormone (LH) and testosterone (T). This suggests that male territorial behaviour including singing in the wintering area occurs without elevated levels of T. In contrast, some females defending winter territories had elevated, while females on breeding territories had low T levels. Female LH and estradiol ( E<sub>2</sub>) levels were low in winter and elevated in spring. These profiles suggest that female winter territorial aggression and/or singing are facilitated by T. It is concluded that male and female migratory Robins have evolved different mechanisms for the control of their territorial behaviour in the wintering area compared to the breeding area.
10.2307/3676425|I examined the effects of shrub density on the distribution and abundance of Black-throated Blue Warblers Dendroica caerulescens within a northern hardwood forest in New Hampshire, U.S.A. I found different responses to shrub density at two different spatial scales (plot and territory). At the scale of 15 ha study plots, the number of breeding birds on seven plots was positively related to shrub density, suggesting that areas having a high density of shrubs were selected by the birds. Selection of shrubs was further supported by an experiment in which the density of Black-throated Blue Warblers declined to zero in the three years after leaves were removed from shrubs on a 14 ha plot. In contrast to the plot scale results, the territory scale analysis demonstrated that shrub density was not greater inside than outside territories in any of 11 analyses (five plots, each studied for two or three years). Thus, within plots, territories were not located in areas where shrub density was high. No other vegetation variable consistently differed between inside and outside of territories within plots. The plot scale analyses provide an example of how the vertical structure of a habitat can affect the distribution of bird species. The conflicting results at the two scales point out the importance of considering several scales in studies of distribution and abundance, but they also raise the question of why a bird would preferentially select plots with dense shrubs and then not locate its territory so that shrub density is maximized. I argue that all territories on plots where average shrub density is above a threshold level will contain enough small dense patches of shrubs for the birds, especially if these patches are important for nesting rather than for foraging. If this argument is valid, then habitat selection at the scale of the territory may not be necessary for Black-throated Blue Warblers.
10.2307/3675923|The numbers of Guillemots on selected cliff ledges of the island of Copinsay, Scotland, were counted four times a day both before egg-laying and at around the time of hatching. Counts of arrivals and departures and behavioural observations were also made at a small study colony. Early season counts showed great variation, the major factors responsible being the time of day, the state of the tide, wind speed and disturbance by gulls. Numbers were more constant later in the season, although they still varied with time of day and there was also some evidence that wind speed and precipitation affected them. There was an upward trend in numbers during this time; behavioural observations suggested that this was due to greater attendance by birds with chicks.
10.2307/3676241|The length of wing, bill, and tarsus of a Dipper population wintering in the province of Smland, southern Sweden, was investigated. Wing length proved to be statistically different between sexes. About 99% of all Dippers can be sexed in this way; no breeding pairs have hitherto been found in which the two sexes could not be significantly separated by this characteristic. Length of bill and tarsus also differed between sexes although the overlap was considerable.
10.2307/3676794|The mating system of Kentish Plovers was studied in Hungary in 1988-91. Pairs renested together after clutch failure on 11 occasions. In addition, two males and one female changed mates (sequential polygyny and polyandry) between clutches. Biparental care lasted 5.95.9 (s.d.) d (n = 20) from hatching to desertion, usually by the female. The duration of biparental care was not related to the sex of the deserting parent, but male-deserted broods hatched earlier than female-deserted ones. In 5 out of 11 cases when pairs renested together, they moved between breeding sites (11.85.8 (s.d.) km), as did all three birds who changed mates (10, 24 and 24 km). These recorded distances suggest that the low reported frequency of mate change may be more a reflection of the high level of breeding dispersal than of the rarity of mate change.
10.2307/3676883|During the prelaying season Common Uria aalge and Brunnich's Guillemot U. lomvia off Finnmark, northern Norway fed exclusively on capelin Mallotus villosus. In mixed flocks Common Guillemots took smaller fish than Brunnich's Guillemots. In the absence of Common Guillemots, Brunnich's Guillemots fed on a wider size spectrum and also included the small fish otherwise eaten by Common Guillemots. A comparison of the size distribution of fish eaten and those caught in trawl net samples suggested that Common Guillemots fed mainly on maturing female capelin in the upper water masses, whereas Brunnich's Guillemots dove deeper and fed on mature and spent male and female capelin caught near the bottom.
10.2307/3676656|Data from a long-term field study show that adult White-crowned Sparrows were often engaged simultaneously in parental care and in postnuptial molt indicating that these functions were not prohibited from overlapping by energetic constraints and that there is strong selection for molt not to be delayed unduly. There was no constant phase relationship between stage of reproduction and initiation of molt. In this sense, the two functions appeared to be scheduled and regulated separately. The seasonal schedules for onset of gonadal refractoriness and of postnuptial molt were nearly identical, however, and all indications are that molt began in individuals right after refractoriness. This raises the distinct possibility that one mechanism or set of hormonal conditions could be inducing both events simultaneously.
10.2307/3676918|In a southern Spanish marsh Little Egrets and Black-tailed Godwits were attacked by kleptoparasitic Black-headed Gulls. Compared with godwits, egrets were less likely to drop their prey to gulls. The only evasive feeding tactic seen was deployed by godwits, and consisted of handling prey under water when kleptoparasitic gulls were present, thus reducing risks of food loss to them.
10.2307/3676900|The relative direction of crossing of the upper mandible with respect to the lower was recorded in 383 Crossbills and 322 Two-barred Crossbills collected in Canada. There was no significant difference between the occurrence of right-billed and left-billed Crossbills, but a highly significant excess of left-billed Two-barred Crossbills existed. In both species, the direction of bill crossing was independent of sex, age, and geographic locale. It is suggested that these ratios may be related to those of two distinct seed cone morphologies described in several coniferous tree species.
10.2307/3676111|Nocturnal passerine migration in S Sweden was studied by radar filming and ceilometer observations during seven weeks in the autumns of 1971 and 1972. Five mass movements occurred, during which the vast majority of all birds involved passed through the area monitored. The weather situation accompanying these events was characterized by NW or NE winds after a cold front passage. Tracks were SSE/SE with NW winds and SW/SSW with NE winds. Movements towards SW/SSW comprised the largest numbers of echoes. Origin and goals of the birds and their reaction to wind, in particular, are discussed.
10.2307/3676850|A population of Starlings in New Zealand has been starting to breed about one day later on average each year for the past 17 years. Individual birds and first-year breeders show the same pattern, so changes in population structure are not responsible. Neighbouring populations behave normally, ruling out climatic factors, and the habitat and food supply appear unchanged. Can anyone suggest an explanation?
10.2307/3676760|Samples of breast feathers of Golden Plovers were collected from live birds captured in spring and autumn staging areas in The Netherlands. Three types of feathers were distinguished: winter and summer feathers, and a peculiar type, called the striped feather. Striped feathers were not found in spring, but made up about 20% of the feathers in samples collected in autumn. Examination of skins of birds collected on the breeding grounds showed that striped feathers develop on the breast and belly of Golden Plovers around the last week of incubation. After arrival in The Netherlands, striped as well as summer feathers are replaced by winter feathers (post-breeding moult). The moult, on the breeding grounds, of part of the ventral summer plumage to special (short-lasting) striped feathers is named the partial breeding moult, and appears hitherto undescribed in other birds. The appearance of striped feathers makes the summer plumage of Golden Plovers less contrasting. This leads us to propose that the balance between selection for a distinctive plumage and for camouflage changes in the course of the season and has thus lead to the evolution of this peculiar moult.
10.2307/3676600|During 1984-87, nesting habitats of 72 radio-marked Black Grouse Tetrao tetrix were studied at Boda in central Sweden. There was a marked preference to place nests in younger stands (trees 0.5-3.0 m) compared to mature and maturing forests. Egg predation was significantly lower in the preferred stands than in stands with trees > 3.0 m. We found no difference in selection of nesting habitat between older birds and yearlings, despite a large age-related difference in breeding success earlier reported for the hens in this study. Total cover at nest sites varied considerably, but we found no relationship between cover and egg predation.
10.2307/3676559|A study of the Kerguelen Tern, a species restricted to three groups of islands in the southern Indian ocean, was carried out in the Crozet archipelago. Kerguelen Terns foraged for small fish throughout the year, mostly in breakers. During breeding, significant numbers of terrestrial arthropods were also eaten from around the nest. The date of laying of the single egg varied between years, apparently in connection with wind conditions. In a delayed breeding season, only the early breeders fledged their chick. The failure of late breeders is thought to result from competition with the sympatric Antarctic Tern Sterna vittata, which normally has a later breeding schedule than the Kerguelen Tern. A comparison of clutch sizes and laying dates among Antarctic Terns from different localities suggests that a clutch size of one egg for both Antarctic and Kerguelen Terns on Crozet may result from the coexistence of these two closely related species.
10.2307/3676522|Age composition of breeding Tengmalm's Owls in relation to population fluctuations of voles and age-related breeding performance were studied in 1981-86 in western Finland. Three age classes were identified: first-year, second-year, and older owls. The most common age class of females was 1-year-old and that of males was 2-year-old. A larger proportion of females than males bred as yearlings, possibly because the breeding success of a pair is largely dependent on the male's ability to provide food. First-year breeders were most frequent in peak years, when many immigrant young owls entered the breeding population. Yearling-yearling pairs performed less well in their breeding attempts than did pairs of 2-year-old mates, which in turn did less well than did older pairs. The nests of first-year males had smaller prey stores than those of second-year males, which in turn had smaller stores than nests of older males. A lack of experience and shortage of food, rather than "saving themselves for later life", seemed to cause poor performance of yearlings.
10.2307/3676170|Information from the European ringing schemes is used to establish the general migration pattern of the Grey Wagtail Motacilla cinerea in Europe. A number of recoveries are extracted for life-table analysis and the results compared with information on reproduction. Based on the reproduction data the life-table is adjusted to a model for a stable population, where total population turn-over is estimated to approx. 3 and 4 years in the Danish and British population respectively. From the British population index the rate of increase (r) is calculated to 0.173. The value of r and the model for a stable population is used in a discussion of the possible events during the repopulation of former breeding places following the severe winter mortality in 1962-63. Finally it is suggested that more attention should be drawn to the ecological significance (sensu 'biotic potential') of r obtained under conditions of natural population increase than to the theoretical r<sub> max</sub> value, which is rarely ever encountered under field conditions.
10.2307/3676413|The post-fledging movements of young birds are poorly understood and difficult to study. Relatively little attention has been paid to the exploration-like elements of post-fledging movements. Thus, young birds visit and perhaps revisit a number of sites and collect sufficient navigational information to allow them to return, often months later, to at least some of these sites. My aim in this paper is twofold: (1) to consider some of the potential functions of post-fledging exploration and the characteristics that each may impart to the behaviour; and (2) to suggest analytical techniques by which researchers with access to suitable ringing returns may use their data to investigate the behaviour. In part, post-fledging exploration appears to be aimed at the location of areas suitable for breeding (the following summer) and, where appropriate, for overwintering. However, a pilot study of three species of passerines ringed in Britain suggests that longer post-fledging journeys do not necessarily translate into the adoption of more-distant breeding sites. Instead, the distance and direction of post-fledging exploration is a function of the furthest distance a bird is ever likely to travel from its birth site. Taken together, these data support a "navigational target" hypothesis. The size and orientation of this target may be optimal for the risk of navigational error to which each species is exposed. The larger targets may be elongated along a N-S axis and birds may bias the direction of their first spring return migration to one side (E-W) of the target.
10.2307/3676604|Black Grouse in Finland have been fed with oats in winter since the late 1960s. Winter feeding sites provide an opportunity to test the importance of winter nutrition in the wild. The weights (adjusted for wing length) of captured yearling hens were significantly lower than those of adult hens, but there was no evidence of any increase in weight associated with the extra food. Preliminary data on radio-tagged hens show no correlation between their winter weight and some parameters of breeding success.
10.2307/3676737|The autumn migration speed of 62 passerine species was estimated on the basis of short-time Swedish ringing recoveries (n = 2212). The average migration speed was lowest among short-distance migrants (<tex-math>$\text{mean}=28\ {\rm km}\ {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math>) and highest among long-distance migrants (<tex-math>$\text{mean}=60\ {\rm km}\ {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math>). The maximum individual speed exceeded <tex-math>$100\ {\rm km}\ {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math> in several species. For many species the migration speed increased along the route and late migrants also seemed to attain a higher speed than early conspecifics. In some cases adult birds migrated significantly faster than juveniles. Recoveries made 1-3 days after ringing were used for estimating the length of migratory flights. The average flight length among nocturnal migrants (177 km) was significantly longer than that of diurnal migrants (111 km). Most flights made by nocturnal migrants lasted for less than half the dark period. Such relatively short flights made during the first part of migration may relate to the slow initial migration speed found in many species.
10.2307/3676505|In Common Eiders, females other than the mother often protect young from predators. This study was designed to determine if failed nesters and females which loose their young shortly after hatching (brood abandoners) participate in such rearing activities. Brood caring females always reacted aggressively towards approaching gulls and stayed close to the young during disturbance. The behaviour of failed nesters and brood abandoners towards broods and crches was similar. Their crche attendance was highly temporal and independent of the time since they had lost their eggs or hatched their young. They usually left the crches at the slightest disturbance, and during gull attacks failed nesters showed no reaction while a few brood abandoners tending crches reacted aggressively. Most of the crche attendance in nest-failing and brood abandoning females is presumably motivated by selfish interest, e.g. seeking safety from predators or kleptoparasites. The so-called "visiting" females or "aunts" in Eider crches should be divided in two categories: broody females showing protective behaviour and females temporarily attending crches and showing no broodiness. Failed nesters and most of the brood abandoners belong to the latter category. Most of the females showing protective behaviour probably belong to the non-breeding cohort (young and/or non-breeding birds).
10.2307/3675875|Young Oystercatchers without experience with the adult bird and food were used in model tests. Since under natural conditions the adult presents food to the young in or beneath the tip of the red bill, a disposition of the young to peck at objects of the bill colour, similarly as in Larids, could be expected. However, the young in general showed no preference for any of the colours red, yellow, green and blue; only black had a relatively low score. It was found that "inexperienced" young respond to unspecific sounds and oblong objects in a vertical position and are disposed to peck at the lower part of such objects and especially at contrasting spots near this part. These initial responses, combined with the ability of learning the characteristics of edible objects very fast, are sufficient for the development of specific responses in parental feeding.
10.2307/3676449|The anti-predator behaviour of night-feeding Dunlins Calidris alpina was studied on a tidal flat in the Danish Wadden Sea. The observations indicated that Dunlins at night depress vocalization compared with day-feeding birds. Moreover, when Dunlins were approached by a raptor during day-time almost all took flight. In contrast, when Dunlins were disturbed at night only about 60% took flight, while most of the remaining birds froze. It is suggested that depressed vocalization and freezing at night are means to escape detection by owls. How the behavioural dichotomy (freezing and escape) during nocturnal disturbance is accomplished and how it affects the spacing behaviour of night-feeding Dunlins are discussed.
10.2307/3676320|The song of the Thrush Nightingale recorded from different distances in open, semiopen and closed habitats both in calm and windy weather was subjected to sonagraphic analysis. Some play-back experiments with normal, degraded and manipulated songs were made. The song of the Thrush Nightingale has two striking characteristics: the loudness of the song and the wideness of the frequency range used. The loudness of the song becomes apparent in the "castanet like" phrases and the wideness of the frequency range in the "rattling" phrase. Both of these phrases carry species-specific information. The song transmitted in a closed habitat, a dense deciduous forest, was degraded by attenuation. In windy weather the song transmitted in an open habitat attenuated more than in calm weather. The most degradeable elements in the song are the high-pitched elements and the elements with a wide frequency range. In the play-back experiments the birds responded stronger to the songs recorded from short distance than to the more degraded songs which were recorded from longer distance.
10.2307/3676524|A parent bird feeding its young often has the potential to increase its effort depending on how much the other parent is prepared to work. For life-history reasons such as reduced confidence in paternity and higher mating success with age (Houston and Davies 1985), we could expect Pied Flycatcher males to be prepared to work less than females in feeding young. We tested this idea by measuring the feeding rates of males and females in monogamous pairs; and also by a removal experiment, to see how much more single parents were prepared to work than members of a pair. Unaided males or females raised fewer young, which were also of lower fledging weight, than did pairs. Single males increased their feeding efforts as much as single females, and in monogamous pairs both sexes had similar feeding rates, thus contradicting our expectation. The model of Houston and Davies (1985) assumes that increasing effort affects adult mortality only after the independence of the young. In reality, adults might die before that time, and then the joint interest of both parents in staying alive at least until the independence of young, may have led to the stable "agreement" of Pied Flycatcher mates in contributing equally to the feeding af nestlings.
10.2307/3676830|A Sand Martin colony in the subalpine (subarctic) birch belt at Ammarns, Swedish Lapland (65N, 590 m a.s.l.), was studied from 1968 through 1985 (excl. 1970-1971). Colony size varied between 8 (1985) and 80 (1975) pairs, and the colony was deserted completely during egg-laying in 1979. Start of egg-laying varied from 3 June (1984) to 28 June (1982), and most often took place between 10 and 20 June. The start of laying was closely correlated with the date when 50% of the ground was snow-free. This date was about one month before start of egg-laying and before arrival of the Sand Martins. There was a much weaker correlation between start of egg-laying and temperature in late May and early June, indicating that the length of the snow-free period before arrival was more important. Temperature after arrival, however, modified the effects of the general advancement of spring. There was a critical temperature range (mean temperature of 5-7C or maximum temperature of 10-12C) below which temperatures deterred onset of laying. A temperature below this range after some pairs had started laying deterred new pairs from starting. Abundance of flying insects rather than temperature as such is likely to be the critical factor determining the start of laying, but there are no data on insect abundance during the early stages of breeding. The seasonal decline of clutch size was <tex-math>$0.2\ \text{eggs}\ {\rm wk}^{-1}$</tex-math> within years, but less between years with different median dates of laying.
10.2307/3676676|This paper documents the daily activities and feeding rates of Barnacle Geese Branta leucopsis through the autumn and winter in relation to changes in biomass of their food supply. Energy intake and expenditure were estimated and energy surplus or deficit for each month calculated. A net surplus was achieved in the months of October (<tex-math>$+235\ {\rm kJ}\ {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math>) and November (<tex-math>$+247\ {\rm kJ}\ {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math>) when most food was available. Geese suffered a net deficit in December (<tex-math>$-225\ {\rm kJ}\ {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math>) and January (<tex-math>$-113\ {\rm kJ}\ {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math>) when biomass and food quality were lowest. In February, when grass began to grow again, the birds achieved a surplus once again (<tex-math>$+167\ {\rm kJ}\ {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math>). Body mass changes through the winter were modelled using observed intake rates and estimated energy expenditure. Body mass predictions were consistent with observed mass and body condition changes. It is argued that mass loss in midwinter in this species is enforced by the limited feeding opportunity and declining food supply rather than an adaptive response to reduce predation risk. Geese gain substantial body reserves in autumn prior to this predictable mass loss. As soon as daylength and food biomass allow, lost reserves are replaced and mass increases rapidly in preparation for migration and breeding.
10.2307/3676349|Puffins Fratercula arctica were studied on Skomer Island, Wales (5144N, 519W) during 1972-77. Annual survival of breeding adults was 95%. Each year, 20-27% adults were without nesting burrows, and 2% were absent from the colony. 64% of pairs with burrows fledged a chick, with 5-16% not laying, 22-25% eggs not hatching, and 5% chick mortality. Much of the egg loss was caused by disturbance from prospecting Manx Shearwaters Puffinus puffinus which competed with Puffins for burrows. Data on the feeding and growth of chicks is given. Young Puffina first returned to the colony at two, or more usually three, years old. Four years was the earliest age for first breeding. At least 10-16% fledglings survived to four years old; it was not clear whether enough survived to replace adult mortality.
10.2307/3676099|A number of population parameters for the Common Guillemot are presented, derived from a study of marked birds on Skomer Island, Wales, and from recoveries of ringed birds. Breeding success on Skomer averaged 0.7 chicks/pair, and in two years adult survival averaged 91.5%. Guillemots returned to Skomer in their second year, and prior to breeding birds congregated in clubs. Guillemots first bred at four years old, but most of them probably breed for the first time in their fifth year. Two different estimates for the survival rate of birds up to five years old were: 16% and 20%. Juvenile survival calculated from ringing recoveries varied from 27% for southern England, where numbers are stable or decreasing, to 41% in north-east Canada, where numbers have increased. Between 1972 and 1977 the Skomer Guillemot population remained at a similar level. If adult survival is 91.5% and 100 pairs of Guillemots produce 70 chicks, 17 (24%) of these must survive to breeding age to maintain a stable population. Factors influencing population size are discussed.
10.2307/3676709|Rates of primary-feather growth with respect to increase in length and increase in feather mass were estimated for nestlings of a range of bird species. The relationships between primary feather growth-rate constants and adult primary-feather length, primary-feather mass and adult body mass for these species are described. As adult body size increases, flight-feather growth is completed in a shorter proportion of the post-hatching growth period. The rate of deposition of primary-feather mass scales to final (asymptotic) primary-feather mass with a similar scaling exponent as that relating rates of overall growth in body mass to adult weight.
10.2307/3676741|Secondary females of polygynous males often have a lower breeding success, because they receive no or reduced male help. Widowed females, facing a similar problem, are known to copulate with other males who may then adopt the brood. I here report on a special case of polyandry where a secondary female obtained parental care from three males. By behaving as an unpaired female towards a widowed male she managed to get help from this male. It is suggested that soliciting EPCs could result in male help under certain conditions.
10.2307/3676568|Effects of snow depth and rate of snowmelt on reproduction of a montane ground-nesting passerine were examined in a 5-year study of Dark-eyed Juncos Junco hyemalis in northern Utah, USA. Distribution of clutch sizes differed significantly among years. Although most clutches contained four eggs, 3-egg clutches, due primarily to second nestings, were more common during a year of early snowmelt and 5-egg clutches were most common during two years of late snowmelt. Average clutch size was lowest in an early snowmelt year and average clutch size and date at which meadows became snow-free were significantly positively correlated. Average hatching date of 4-egg clutches was also significantly positively correlated with date at which meadows became snow-free demonstrating that most birds tracked the pattern of snowmelt. Early snowmelt may allow more pairs to attempt second nesting, but late-lying snow causes breeding to be delayed, allowing time for only one nesting attempt. During this delay, female juncos continue to feed and some may gain enough reserves to produce larger clutches, accounting for the increase in average clutch size in years of late snowmelt. Three female juncos examined in June 1982, a period of late snowmelt, had significantly more lipid reserves than did six males collected at the same time, suggesting that females are not physiologically stressed while awaiting snowmelt. By tracking snowmelt patterns, juncos synchronize production of young with peak summer insect abundance and potentially decrease risk of predation. Snow depth and rate of snowmelt are thus proximate environmental factors that may influence the reproductive ecology of ground-nesting passerines.
10.2307/3676185|Food, feeding behaviour, habitat selection when feeding, and food selection of downy Goldeneye ducklings are treated. Food analyses (n=10), studies of feeding methods and locations of wild broods, and complementary work on feeding behaviour and food selection of captive birds, are described. In the food analyses, fresh water insects dominated. Four kinds of feeding methods were observed: diving (most frequent), surface feeding, dabbling, and pecking at emergent plants. Three kinds of feeding locations were watched: open water (most frequent), vegetation of water-lilies, and vegetation of emergent plants. The food selection studies indicate selective feeding and preference for freely swimming prey. No size preference was found. The ducklings' feeding behaviour favours detection and catching of prey which is active and freely swimming or well exposed on bottom or on vegetation.
10.2307/3676513|The resident population of Song Sparrows breeding on Mandarte Island, British Columbia fluctuated markedly between 1975 and 1989. A major population crash occurred during a week of unusually severe winter weather in early February 1989. Over 90% of Song Sparrows alive on the island in mid-January 1989 disappeared by 9-12 February 1989. The high mortality was accompanied by directional natural selection favoring female birds with longer wings. No selection was detected among males. We addressed the alternative hypothesis that Song Sparrows died of disease rather than poor weather. The population of Fox Sparrows Passerella iliaca wintering on Mandarte also declined sharply during the same period as Song Sparrows. The contemporaneous decline in the population size of these two species supports the conclusion that severe weather caused the population crashes. However, Fox Sparrows survived the poor weather better than Song Sparrows, possibly because of greater fat reserves in the former species. The effect of cold weather on population size of Song Sparrows was local. Sex-specific adult mortality was highest on Mandarte, lowest at a nearby mainland site provided with supplemental winter food, and intermediate on similar islands near Mandarte. Our findings suggest three general points of interest. First, avian populations can be studied for a relatively long time (here, 14 yr) before rare but critical environmental effects on population size are found. Second, local populations comprising a large metapopulation can show highly variable responses to severe environmental conditions. Finally, if populations at nearby sites can behave very differently, community interactions dependent upon population densities of interacting species may also vary on the same local scale (Wiens 1977).
10.2307/3676682|Recent models of body mass regulation predict that small birds wintering under thermally stressful conditions should show increases in the dawn minima of their body mass and fat reserves with the approach of midwinter. This seasonal increase in energy reserves is hypothesized to function as insurance against the increased thermal demands during the short cold days of midwinter, when snowstorms can further reduce the already-deteriorating food supply. Superimposed on this winter fattening strategy, there should be a daily increase in the amount of fat stored for the coming night of fasting. To investigate patterns of variation in their body mass and fat reserves, Gray Jays Perisoreus canadensis were captured repeatedly near the northern limit of their range in Alaska between 7 September and 16 December 1987. As predicted, the dawn minima of body mass and fat stores tended to increase with the approach of midwinter. In addition, the results suggest that the jays increased their energy reserves later in the day, and that they facultatively increased their reserves in response to lower temperatures, heavier snowfall, and windier conditions. These results indicate that there was a seasonal increase in energy reserves associated with decreasing photoperiod, and that superimposed on this pattern was a daily cycle sensitive to contemporaneous climatic conditions. Thus, the jays appeared to have increased fasting capacity during those times when the risk of energetic shortfall was heightened.
10.2307/3676809|The distribution of landbirds throughout Australia is positively correlated with their distribution in the New England region of New South Wales, but only weakly, and negatively, correlated with local density. Local distribution is more strongly correlated with local density. This indicates that abundant species may tolerate or disperse into a range of habitats locally but that other factors influence their distribution on a continental scale, such as replacement by ecologically or phylogenetically similar species. Local density is positively correlated with niche breadth of foraging method and tree species, but not with niche breadth of substrate type or height. There are no positive correlations between any measures of distribution and niche breadth of foraging, though niche breadth for plant species is negatively correlated with breeding range. Thus, there is a tendency for generalists to be more abundant locally, but they do not appear to be more widespread. A broad foraging niche therefore does not seem to be the reason why widespread species may be locally abundant.
10.2307/3676061|This comparative study of the trophic diversity of the Barn Owl Tyto alba is based on published data from Germany, France, Switzerland, Portugal, and Spain. Shannon's information function and Pielou's evenness index were used to assess trophic diversity. Barn Owls from temperate localities showed a strongly stenophagous diet, biomass consumed being almost entirely from mammalian preys, whereas birds from southern, Mediterranean localities fed on more varied kinds of prey, trophic diversity being much greater there. Such a 'generalization' of the diet should be interpreted as a predator response compelled by the decrease in diversity and abundance of small mammals which takes place in the Mediterranean regions studied.
10.2307/3675920|Weights of 900 Brent Geese captured at 30 sites while flightless are examined. The geese included representatives of two breeding stocks and some moult-immigrants. The population to which an individual belonged seemed to have less effect on its weight than did its age, sex, recent breeding effort or the site where it was moulting. The mean weights, in kg, of adult males were 1.37  0.35, of adult females 1.23  0.40, of yearling males 1.22  0.26, and of yearling females 1.16  0.28. Females that had laid tended to weigh less than non-breeders taken in the same place. Though the weather in the spring and summer of 1974 was exceptionally poor, so that no geese nested and there was little plant growth, moulting geese weighed as much in late July 1974 as in the other years. The geese at a few sites weighed well above the general average. The mean weights of these moulters are only 5-7% less than the annual means of a collection of published weights of other Brent Geese. Capture caused appreciable temporary loss of weight, averaging 80 g after 5 d. Measurements of the growth of the longest primary feather indicated a mean daily increment of about 6 mm d<sup>-1</sup>; the geese being able to fly again before the wings are fully grown, the flightless period was no more than 22-25 d. Individuals with well grown new primaries weighed less than those caught at the same time and not yet showing new primaries, the difference being more marked in males.
10.2307/3676561|The properties of five wing shape indices were evaluated using data on the wing morphology of 540 Dark-eyed Juncos Junco hyemalis. These indices differed in their ability to detect age and sex related differences in wing shape. Correlations among the indices revealed that some between-index comparisons are not valid. Wing symmetry and pointedness, as identified by these indices, are not independent dimensions of wing shape. Comparison of the indices with an independent assessment of wing shape (PCA of the original variables) showed that no two indices of wing pointedness measure the same components of wing shape variation. Wing shape indices do not provide an unequivocal method for the analysis of wing shape and we recommend the use of alternative techniques such as multivariate analysis.
10.2307/3676467|We investigated the temporal associations between courtship feeding and copulatory behaviour prior to and during the egg-laying stage of Common Terns Sterna hirundo. The occurrence of courtship feeding did not affect either the likelihood of successful cloacal-contact copulations or the number of cloacal-contacts per copulation bout. In addition, courtship feeding did not appear to induce mounting behaviour. However, this finding is largely dependent on the manipulation of data prior to statistical analysis. We suggest that such manipulations be standardized and explicitly defined in future studies.
10.2307/3676121|Before and during the two breeding seasons of 1976 and 1977 the tits were fed with sun-flower seeds and nutrient enriched tallow in a <tex-math>$1.8\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> area. A <tex-math>$5.5\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> area was used as a control. The tits were not fed in experimental area in 1978. The aim was to find whether the tits take advantage of a rich food supply at the time of breeding. Laying was advanced in both species by 2-8 d in 1976 and 1977 but not in 1978. Clutch-size and number of fledglings were not significantly affected in any of the species. Fitness was improved by increasing the survival of the offspring rather than their number. The nestlings of the fed Crested Tits were heavier. There was a slight trend towards more second broods in the experimental area.
10.2307/3675876|During seven seasons Great Snipe lek behaviour was studied in westcentral Sweden. A general information about the lek and the males visiting is given as well as an account of the drumming display. A territorial system is established on the lek. Territories are not fixed between years. Territorial behaviour as intimidating, fighting and chasing is described. Chasing predominates when a female arrives for mating late in the evening. Courtship behaviour and copulation was observed. The social organization at the lek is described. Two groups of males are identified, territorial and non-territorial males. One difference used to separate these groups of males is the attendance to the lek. The non-territorials spending much shorter time at the lek. There is also a difference in attendance within the group of non-territorials suggesting one group being birds on migration. All copulation observed were performed by the territorial males known to be oldest.
10.2307/3676665|The extent to which control over adrenal steroidogenic function is established during embryogenesis, and therefore the ability of precocial neonates to withstand stress, is probably an important determinant of breeding success. Studies on the ontogeny of adrenal steroidogenic function in birds, however, have been limited to the chicken Gallus domesticus and the duckling Anas platyrhynchos. Up to the 21st day of embryogenesis, the temporal patterns of adrenal gland development in these species are similar. By the 15th day the adrenal anlage is encapsulated and consists of islands of chromaffin cells distributed throughout a mass of structurally typical steroidogenic cells; at this time the steroidogenic cells are responsive to 1-24 ACTH and they contain small quantities of corticosterone and aldosterone. During the next six days the corticotropic responsiveness increases although the inducible response of cells from the 21 day-old emerging chick embryo is less than that of cells from the 21 day-old duck embryo. In the duckling, corticotropic responsiveness increases further during the next week preceding emergence. Also the steroidogenic cells in the emerging duck embryo, but not those in the emerging chicken embryo, preferentially synthesize aldosterone in response to angiotensin II. Although catecholamines and acetylcholine each suppress basal unstimulated rates of corticosterone and aldosterone release from the steroidogenic tissue, none has an effect on 1-24 ACTH-inducible corticosteroid release.
10.2307/3676444|Local enhancement is one way individuals may realize foraging advantages from grouping. A distinction between fine-level and coarse-level local enhancement is made, the latter often being neglected in theoretical research on group foraging. In the former case, an individual has a higher feeding rate as a member of a group because individuals copy other group members' foraging, whereas in the latter, groups simply attract other individuals to patches where food is particularly abundant and copying does not occur within the group. Coarse-level local enhancement may decrease the time needed to find profitable feeding patches in spatially and temporally variable environments. A review of the empirical literature indicated that coarse-level local enhancement is typical in bird species foraging in open habitats and in large groups with relatively little competition between group members whereas the opposite attributes fit the species for which fine-level local enhancement had been documented. Furthermore, species in which coarse-level local enhancement prevails usually forage in temporary groups. However, coarse-level and fine-level local enhancement are not necessarily mutually exclusive, but which one is more important in a particular case may be habitat-dependent.
10.2307/3675882|(1) Food and habitat utilization, activity and territorial behaviour in the Common Buzzard Buteo buteo L. and the Rough-legged Buzzard B. lagopus Pontopp. were studied in southern Sweden where the two species winter sympatrically. (2) Both species maintained virtually exclusive territories both intra- and interspecifically. (3) The species showed nearly identical food choice, and the overlap value was calculated to be 0.99. The Common Buzzards were, however, found to take slightly more Apodemus spp than the Rough-legs. (4) Habitat distribution of the two species was very similar, and the overlap was found to be 0.88, but the Common Buzzards perched (i.e., looked for prey) more often in groves and swamps and less often in moist and dry meadows than the Rough-legs. However, both species preferred to hunt in areas with high rodent densities and avoided the poorer habitats. (5) Rough-legged Buzzards were found to hover to some extent, especially in strong wind, while the Common Buzzards did not make use of this hunting technique or at least only very rarely. Calculations of the power requirement in both species showed, however, that the Common Buzzard would require less energy for hovering than the Rough-legs. The hunting success of hovering Rough-legs indicates that hovering is an expensive method to obtain rodents except under high wind velocities. Since both species in most cases hunt using a "sit and wait strategy" the species compete for suitable perching sites. (6) The diel periodicity in both species was found to be almost identical with a flight activity peak around noon. (7) Because of the great ecological similarities between the two species it seems adaptive for them to defend territories both intra- and interspecifically. The largely separate winter distribution of the two species suggests that individuals of both species have higher fitness when they do not have to compete with members of the opposite species.
10.2307/3676396|Thirty-two Great Tit Tit broods were sampled using the neck-collar method. Fifty percent (n = 526) of the prey brought to the nestlings were Lepidoptera imagines (moths), almost exclusively Noctuidae. Peridroma saucia was the main moth species brought. Caterpillars were only abundant very early in the nestling stage, moths being more abundant during most of this period. We conclude that, in orange groves, the Great Tit breeding population depends heavily on moths to feed the nestlings. Fledging successs does not seem to be affected by this major change in the diet, though clutch size is smaller than in other habitats.
10.2307/3676432|To study possible density-dependent processes and differences in reproductive success between populations of the Great Tit breeding at high and low latitudes longterm data from Oulu, Finland (17 yr) and Budapest, Hungary (19 yr) were analysed. Large fluctuations and low productivity as a consequence of high nestling mortality were recorded in the northern population, where neither intra- nor interspecific density-dependent effects were found. High density and high productivity were shown in the Central European population, where intraspecific density-dependent clutch size reduction was found. Interspecific density-dependent clutch size reduction and hatching failure due to competitor species were also found in this population.
10.2307/3676754|Recoveries of Shags ringed at colonies in north Europe showed marked differences between regions in the timing and extent of dispersal from colonies outside the breeding season. In addition to differences between populations, age-related and annual variations occur. Whereas some populations were comparatively consistent in their year to year dispersal patterns and there were no age related differences, others, e.g. the Forth/Farnes, showed marked age related and annual variations. Populations on exposed coasts showed greater variation in dispesal between years, possibly due to influences of weather on food availability. For most populations, median winter movements were generally less than 100 km, and winter ranges of different breeding populations were relatively discrete. North Norwegian Shags apparently undergo migratory rather than dispersive movements but important biases may be included in the data. It is concluded that "eruptive" movements are merely the later stages in a graded response to deteriorating environmental conditions and the occurrence of such behaviour in different populations is determined by the availability of sheltered feeding conditions.
10.2307/3676290|The geographical variation of Podiceps auritus was studied from 376 museum specimens. Ageing and description of plumages and moults are given. The geographical variation consists mainly in a clinal reduction of pigmentation in Siberia towards ssp. cornutus (Gmelin, 1788) in North America, and a much longer and thicker bill in ssp. arcticus Boje, 1822, in Iceland and Northern Norway (including N. Scotland, Faeroes, Jutland up to 1860). The distinctiveness of this race is further supported by data on egg dimensions, ethology, and ecology. In contrast to nominate race, ssp. arcticus is less specialized in habitat selection and feeding. The geographical variation is explained mainly as character displacement, due to the presence of P. griseigena, and the absence of other grebe species in Iceland and Northern Norway. Historical viewpoints on the origin of ssp. arcticus are given.
10.2307/3676736|We assume that the fat levels of a small bird in winter reflect a tradeoff between starvation and predation. This tradeoff is formalized by finding the level of fat that minimizes total mortality (starvation plus predation) in a given environment. A bird is characterised in terms of its level of energy reserves. The bird starves if these reserves fall to zero. In general, the probability that the bird is killed by a predator increases with increasing reserves. We consider two models. In both at each time unit during a day a bird can choose, as a function of its reserves, to forage or to rest. In the forage vs rest model there is only one foraging option. In the foraging intensity model the bird can choose from a range of options, where options with a high energetic gain also incur a high predation risk. We find the optimal level of reserves for various environments, together with the resulting levels of starvation and predation. Unless food availability is very high, an improvement in overall availability results in a decrease in the mean reserves at dusk (MRD); in the foraging intensity model there is also a trend towards choosing safer foraging options with lower mean gains. An increase in variability, either as a result of a decreased probability of finding food or an increase in interruptions of foraging, increases MRD. The increase in reserves is not sufficient to prevent an increase in starvation. As a result, reserves and starvation can be positively correlated across environmental conditions. The level of starvation tends to be lower than the level of predation, but the ratio of starvation to predation tends to increase as conditions become worse. In the middle of winter, the days are short and the nights are long and cold. The optimal response to a decrease in daylength involves an increase in both dawn and dusk levels of reserves. This pattern is also found when overnight expenditure increases but daylength is constant. In this context we show that when temperatures are very low, a small saving in energy can result in a substantial increase in survival probability. The relevance of this result for evaluating the importance of hypothermia is discussed.
10.2307/3676450|Two female Pied Flycatchers Ficedula hypoleuca laid their eggs in the same nest, but at different times. This resulted in two size classes among the nestlings. The females did not preferentially feed the young to whom they were genetically related, and the male siring the smaller young only, provided relatively more food for the larger nestlings.
10.2307/3676365|To study the influence of plumage coloration on male-male interactions and female choice of males, I dyed territorial males of the White-crowned Sparrow Zonotrichia leucophrys pugetensis. I compared (1) control males with normal black-and-white crown, (2) males with (dyed) black crown, showing less contrast than normal males, and (3) males with normal crown and (dyed) black breast, being more conspicuous than males of group (1) and (2). Before manipulation, morphological and behavioural traits were similar among male groups. Males were caught on newly established territories, manipulated in captivity, and released when their territories had been occupied by replacement males. Coloration did not influence the degree to which males regained their territories, suggesting that the black colour was unimportant in contests between males. Male pairing rate after release did not differ significantly among male groups, and females did not prefer the most conspicuous males.
10.2307/3676721|Greenfinches located food faster in groups as they were informed by feeding flock mates about its location (local enhancement). Still, gains in search efficiency due to local enhancement were insufficient to balance the smaller shares obtained from depletable patches by individuals in a flock and the intake rate for the average individual decreased. Stable foraging groups, based on an increased intake rate for every member, are therefore not possible. Improvements in search efficiency decreased with increasing flock size as the proportion of patch revisits increased. In spite of finding food faster, intake rates of group forages will decrease unless patches are too large or too ephemeral to be depleted. The decrease in intake rates at group foraging further requires that solitary birds gain from using memory while foraging, a benefit which is eroded in flocks. Still, a reduced risk of starvation could reconcile group foraging with reduced intake rates since local enhancement reduces the variance in food intake.
10.2307/3675983|The efficiency of the international standard for estimating population density and changes was tested in two woodland plots (46 and 70 ha). Population changes were poorly reflected when only 10 surveys per year were conducted. This was due to yearly differences in total census efficiency. The efficiency was different for different species and was affected also by the time of the censuses in relation to the breeding cycle. Recommendations to overcome some difficulties are given.
10.2307/3676792|An index of condition was developed for wild Red Grouse chicks aged 10-30 days. This was derived from the difference between the observed weight and that expected from the chick's age, or stage of feather development. To measure it, the chicks needed to be caught only once. Variations in condition among different broods of wild chicks were greater than variations among broods of captive chicks in the same years, probably because the wild chicks' environment was harsher and more variable. Within years, the condition of wild chicks was not related to their brood size. Among years, mean condition was correlated both with breeding success and with the biomass of green heather food available in spring. This was because the chicks' condition and survival were poor for two years following an episode of severe weather damage to the heather.
10.2307/3676275|The cycle of the male sex organs in Pied Flycatchers from northern and southern Sweden is described. The results are discussed in relation to the breeding behaviour of the species. The birds were colour banded and watched daily in the field to ascertain the exact breeding situation of every investigated male. The Pied Flycatcher has an extremely early testicular regression, which is well synchronised with the normal hatching time, independent of year and latitude. Once spermatogenesis has been initiated it ceases after a definite time, and no prolongation seems possible. The activity of the Leydig cells declines rapidly immediately after the egg-laying period. This can be correlated with changes in singing activity, and with the aggressive and polygamous behaviour of the species. The sex ratio in the broods was determined; and equal sex ratio, 1:1, was found.
10.2307/3676414|A four year study was carried out on the hybridization between Carrion Crow and Hooded Crow in four overlap areas in northwestern Italy, in order to ascertain whether assortative mating occurred. The number of hybrid pairs was lower than expected whereas the number of homomorphic black pairs was higher. Differences between observed and expected frequencies were statistically significant. It is suggested that the low fitness of hybrids is the ultimate reason why individuals should mate assortatively whereas some differences in courtship (such as vocalizations, postures, perception of colour differences) may be one of the proximate factors enabling this.
10.2307/3676838|For centuries sea bird fowling in the Faroe Islands has been regulated by a series of traditionally developed and adopted rules so as to keep the bird populations on a steady level while, at the same time, giving a maximum yield. In a speach in the Danish Parliament in 1854 a Faroese MP said: "Fowling in the Faroe Islands is carried out by peculiar methods, which aim at maintaining this important industry for generations to come." Ownership of certain parts of the bird colonies puts the responsibility upon the individual owner not to overexploit his part of the colony. In villages with common ownership of the bird colonies, rules were set by the annual community meeting. Maximum bag was regulated yearly according to observations of bird population growth or decline. In the vertical Guillemot Uria aalge cliffs a certain number of birds were allowed to be taken from each ledge ("subcolony"), and each of these had a place name. The fowling of Puffin Fratercula arctica and Guillemot is discussed with special reference to how traditional knowledge (accumulated during at least 300 yr) compares with present ecological knowledge.
10.2307/3676804|Banding data for 1975-1985 were used to determine the latitudinal distribution of sex and age (males only) classes of the American Goldfinch Carduelis tristis during winter in eastern North America. Males wintered north of females, and among males, immatures wintered farther north than adults. Analysis of recovery data suggested that age and sex differences in winter distribution resulted from differences in distance migrated from the breeding grounds. The results are discussed in light of existing hypotheses proposed to explain differential migration. Geographic differences in the winter distribution of the sexes are qualitatively consistent with predictions of both the body size and social dominance hypotheses, but neither these, nor the arrival time hypothesis, can explain why male goldfinches make longer migrations from the breeding grounds as adults. We propose that young goldfinches may be physiologically or behaviorally incapable of making long migrations during their first autumn.
10.2307/3675917|The Ural Owl and the Tawny Owl have ranges in Scandinavia which meet in central Sweden between 60N and 61N with only a small overlap. These two owl species were compared with respect to their food and habitat utilization within the narrow zone where sympatry occurs. Their food utilization, despite their conspicuous size difference, was nearly identical ( = 0.96), both species feeding mainly upon Arvicola terrestris and Microtus agrestis. Changes in prey composition between years were parallel. However, the Ural and Tawny Owls were clearly segregated by habitat ( = 0.44) and thus did not compete directly. The Tawny Owl preferred arable land and the Ural Owl taiga forest with a large proportion of open habitats such as mires and clear-fellings. The present parapatric distribution border coincides closely with the sudden change in vegetation in central Sweden, where northern coniferous forest is replaced by a mixed farmland habitat. Partly due to modern forestry a large proportion of Ural Owl pairs lack suitable nest sites and produce no young. Thus, the distribution pattern is probably mainly due to differences in habitat preferance but may secondarily be an effect of nest site scarcity among Ural Owls. It is suggested that provision of abundant nest-boxes may lead to the Ural Owl extending its range into that of the Tawny Owl and possibly to intensified competitive interactions.
10.2307/3676770|A 32 g telemetry unit for birds is described. Elements included are a motion sensor and a radio transmitter, plus onboard storage for one week of activity data. This combined direct-transmitting and storing telemetry unit provided activity data from Kittiwakes Rissa tridactyla in Svalbard in 1985. The principles of the device are presented, with some results to illustrate its performance.
10.2307/3676496|Capercaillie hens laid fertilized eggs for an average of 24 d (range 22-26 d) after separation from males. New matings are likely necessary prior to renesting in this species to insure fertilized repeat clutches. The seasonal decline in fertility often observed in captive Capercaillie is likely a result of some hens not remating, while concurrently continuing to lay beyond the fertile period.
10.2307/3675946|The postjuvenile moult pattern of captive individuals from two Scandinavian (Ume 6320N and Andya 6916N) Starling populations was studied. The birds were hand-raised and kept under constant environmental conditions which made it possible to investigate possible endogenous differences in the circannual time-program of the moult. Birds from Ume went through a complete moult significantly faster than did birds from Andya. This was particularly pronounced when considering the remiges. Birds from Andya also showed a greater temporal segregation of the moult of different parts of the plumage. The results show that there is a difference in the endogenous circannual rhythm of moult between birds from the two populations. This is in good agreement with the different natural annual cycles birds from these two populations show, i.e. birds from Andya are non-migratory and lay two clutches per year, whereas birds from Ume are completely migratory and lay only a single clutch per year.
10.2307/3676439|In a choice between different experimental plots, Wigeon initiated grazing bouts in fertilized vegetation plots in late April and early May, but switched to clipped plots at the end of May. There was a positive correlation between the frequency of plots first visited and time spent grazing in these same plots, as well as between the mean length of grazing bouts in different plots and the time spent grazing in those plots. Wigeon spent more time grazing in fertilized plots during the mid afternoon and evening in the early breeding period (late April and early May) than in the late breeding period (late May and early June). The mean peck rates in different plots did not differ during the early period, but later decreased as a result of increasing vegetation height. There was a positive correlation between the mean nitrogen concentrations in leaf tips and time spent grazing. Furthermore, there was a positive correlation between nitrogen concentration and the mean duration of grazing bouts. The extrinsic and intrinsic factors affecting the birds' selection of particular plots during the breeding season are discussed.
10.2307/3676657|Like other penguin species, molting Emperor Aptenodytes forsteri and King A. patagonica penguins remain ashore and fast for several weeks during which their entire plumage is simultaneously renewed. Molt therefore involves the use of endogenous lipid reserves and body protein to meet the nutrient requirements not only for new feather synthesis, but also for the increase in energy expenditure associated with the decrease in thermal insulation. This energetic and metabolic stress results in a 45% decrease in body mass and in a 50% loss of body protein. There is no evidence that metabolic hormones such as glucagon, insulin and corticosterone play a major role in the control of metabolic events specifically related to molt. In contrast, the marked increase in circulating thyroxine at the onset of new feather synthesis in adult Emperor and King penguins, and in Emperor Penguin chicks, suggests that this hormone triggers molt by stimulating the development of the new plumage. On the other hand, triiodothyronine could intervene in the control of energy metabolism in situations of acute cold exposure, as during the loss of old feathers in the antarctic adult Emperor Penguins.
10.2307/3676658|Fasting to initiate reproductive involution and body weight loss has been commonly employed for commercial induced molt procedures involving the Domestic Fowl Gallus domesticus. This mimics the anorexia associated with natural molt in some wild avian species. A body weight loss of approximately 30% was found to produce optimum postmolt reproductive performance with regard to rate of egg production and eggshell quality. Lipid in the shell gland was found to be reduced only after a body weight loss of 25% was achieved. Others have reported an induced molt to be associated with an increase in the shell gland phosphatidylcholine to phosphatidylethanolamine ratio and an increase in tissue accumulation of calcitriol. We have reported an increased concentration and activity of shell gland calcitriol receptor as well as an increase in calbindin-D28k. These results suggest that complete involution of the oviduct and shell gland is necessary for complete restructuring and rejuvenation. There was evidence that a high protein diet during recrudescence aids in the rapid return to reproductive function.
10.2307/3676270|Ptarmigan chicks feed primarily on blueberry in the summer and on willow and birch in winter. Experiments showed that chicks less than 10 wk old have a poorly developed ability to feed on willow. At the age of 12 wk or older they master willow eating to perfection even when it is offered to them for the first time in their life. The survival value of this and other known age-determined developments in Ptarmigan chicks is briefly discussed.
10.2307/3676340|Phenotypic correlations between body size and egg dimensions were poor in the Great Tit and Pied Flycatcher populations studied in northern Finland. Heritability of egg volume was high in the Great Tit, 0.860.29. The phenotypic effect of a female upon egg dimensions was great, about 60% of total variance, and this was interpreted as the approximate effect of additive genetic factors. The age of the female had slight effects on egg dimensions, and clutches of different years and the first and second clutches of the same year had similar egg dimensions, although clutch size decreased significantly during the season in the Great Tit. However, egg size as well as the effect of non-heritable factors on egg size increased in replacement clutches laid shortly after the first clutch. The high heritability of egg dimensions implies that egg size should rapidly respond to differential selection pressures, but geographical variation in egg size has not been found in the species studied. However, selection pressures affecting the adaptive variation of egg size in an English Great Tit population were concluded to differ from those operating in northern Finland.
10.2307/3676495|Food habits and trophic convergence between Palearctic Eagle Owl and Nearctic Great Horned Owl were studied on the basis of the taxonomic composition of their diet, trophic diversity and mean weight of prey. Within each faunal region six biomes were distinguished: Mediterranean shrubland, temperate deciduous forest, boreal conifer forest, grassland, temperate desert, and mountain. Three prey assemblages dominated the diet of the two owls but maximum frequencies were not always attained in similar Palearctic and Nearctic biomes. Thus, lagomorphs dominated in the Mediterranean shrubland (Eagle Owl) and temperate deciduous forest (Great Horned Owl), respectively; voles (Cricetidae) dominated the diet of both owls in the boreal conifer forest; desert rodents (gerbils, jerboas and kangaroo rats) and invertebrates dominated their diet in deserts. The diet of the two owl species reached maximum trophic diversity in temperate deciduous forest and deserts and minimum mean weight of prey in the deserts. Great Horned Owls tended to have a more diverse diet than Eagle Owls. Limited trophic convergence between the two species of owl could be due to differences between similar Palearctic and Nearctic biomes in the composition of prey assemblages and abundance of the preferred prey (lagomorphs), and to intra- and interspecific differences in the body weight of the owls.
10.2307/3676120|The rearing activities of the Common Eider Somateria mollissima were studied in the Grand Manan Archipelago, N.B., Canada. Tide and time of day were both correlated with a number of different activities. Generally, tide affected physical or biotic aspects of the environment while time of day was related to the internal need to feed. Eiders concentrated along sheltered, rockweed-covered shores, feeding most actively at tides when food was most available but with a concurrent diurnal feeding pattern that had peaks of activity early and late in the day. Tide, time of day, and status of the birds interacted in determining the use of various nearshore habitats. Groups of females and young travelled from the nesting islands to rearing areas 5-8 km away. This departure was timed, by tide and time of day, to minimize gull (Larus spp.) predation and to use favourable currents.
10.2307/3676155|Bird species richness increases strongly with bog area. Slopes of log-log area-species regressions (z-values) on raised bogs are high (0.35-0.62), even when only large (> 100 ha) bogs are considered. The density of most waders is higher on larger (> 50 ha) than on smaller bogs. Wader density increases northwards and also as bogs become rounder and wetter. We suggest that variations in wetness, predation pressure and food density are the causes of these patterns of wader density. The density of passerines decreases northwards but for other groups the reverse trend is present. The increasing wetness northwards on raised bogs and the higher density of rodents are possible causes of these trends. From a conservation point of view, one large bog is on average more valuable than several small bogs with the same combined area.
10.2307/3676641|The pattern of plasma concentrations of growth hormone (GH) during growth and development is very similar in all species of birds studied. Plasma concentrations of GH rise during late embryonic and early post hatching development. This reflects increased GH secretion. There are considerable increases in the number of somatotrophs, in the pituitary content of GH and in the sensitivity to GH secretagogues. Later in development, plasma concentrations of GH decline due to an increase in clearance and a reduction in secretion. This ontogenic pattern of circulating concentrations of GH is remarkably similar in four avian orders suggesting that this was found in the common ancestor and that strong evolutionary pressure existed to retain this pattern. The ontogenic pattern of liver GH receptors is inversely related to the concentration of GH. During development, plasma concentrations of GH are elevated by the same environmental factors (e.g. nutrition, toxicants) which attenuate growth. This may be part of the "catch-up" growth mechanisms to ensure growth to an optimal size once the temporary constraint has been removed.
10.2307/3676811|This paper reports a study which examined whether the diel activity pattern of lapwings varies cyclically in relation to moonphase during the non-breeding season (July to February). The main aim of the study was to test the model proposed by Spencer (1953) that Lapwings feed by day and roost at night during most of the lunar month, except for a few days around full moon, when the pattern is reversed. A lunar rhythm of the type proposed by Spencer was detected during winter but not in summer, while the evidence for its existence in autumn was equivocal. In winter, the lunar rhythm was interrupted by low temperature, dense cloud or heavy rain at night, which suggests that the behaviour is opportunist and not endogenous. The nature and adaptive significance of the link between the daily activity pattern of Lapwings and the lunar cycle are discussed.
10.2307/3676909|Behaviour of Bar-tailed Godwits Limosa lapponica was studied in northern Norway. The Ceremonial Flight consisted of four phases, of which the Limping Flight had the most striking visual and vocal components. Noisy and conspicuous Pursuit Flights, in which males followed their mates closely, occurred in the pre-laying period and often attracted unmated males. Ground courtship involved raising the tail, and in Erect Courtship the bill pointed slightly upwards. Aggressive postures lacked tail erection, and the bill slanted downwards. Altogether, nine different kinds of vocalizations were recognized, apparently parts of a graded communication system. It is concluded that the Ceremonial Flight mainly has heterosexual functions (signalling unmated status and re-enforcing the pair bond), and that the tail erection in courtship may be an ancestral character.
10.2307/3676091|Dead gulls marked either with leg rings or bill tags were dropped in the North Sea to simulate a mortality incident. Recovery rates were 0.3% for rings and 19.3% for the more durable and conspicuous tags. Recovery places were mainly in Norway but spread between 58 and 70N. Reports were also spread over a long time with a median interval of 142 d. Most bodies had probably decomposed in six months and many in less so many reports probably referred to plastic markers alone. The distribution of recoveries was broadly in line with that predicted by wind vector analysis. Bodies moved at 11.9% of the wind speed as measured at Bergen, but it was 3.0 times more windy in the North Sea, so the real relative drift rate was 4.0%. It is concluded that a major bird mortality incident in the North Sea would not readily be detected or measured by emergency beached bird surveys.
10.2307/3676587|Three potential explanations for lowered spring densities of territorial cock Spruce Grouse (Dendragapus canadensis) in pine forests of southwestern Alberta were investigated over two years by counting males on 12 pairs of plots (x = 31.9 ha), half of which had all territorial cocks removed in the first year. Invoking a lack of potential recruits as one explanation for low mean densities (5.8 cocks <tex-math>$100\ {\rm ha}^{-1}$</tex-math>) on the sample of plots was considered unsupported because the density of males remained the same overall in the second year despite the removal of 45% of territorial cocks in the first year. Furthermore, the proportion of yearlings in the territorial population increased from 8% in the first year to 25% in the second year. An alternative hypothesis suggested that the low density of territorial cocks resulted from resident males occupying ever larger territories as the forests matured, thereby forcing numbers down locally. This explanation was also rejected because, under this hypothesis, increased numbers were not predicted on any plots, yet 25% of them showed an increase in the second year. The counts of territorial cocks on the two groups of plots came closest to satisfying the predictions of the third hypothesis, namely that as pine forests matured (tree height increased, stem density and shrub cover declined), they became progressively less attractive to potential male recruits. As predicted, plots on which grouse were either absent in both years or declined in numbers in the second year had significantly lower stem densities and shrub cover than those plots on which the density of grouse remained constant or increased.
10.2307/3676802|Possible causes and reproductive consequences of natal dispersal in both sexes of the Collared Flycatcher Ficedula albicollis were investigated using data from a longterm population study on the island of Gotland in the Baltic. Females moved further than males. Of several factors related to natal conditions, only natal brood size was significantly related to dispersal distance, females from small broods moving further than those from large broods. No association between population density and natal dispersal was found. Increased natal dispersal distance was associated with low reproductive success among females and low survival rate among males. For both females and males this association was only significant among birds hatched late in the season. Natal dispersal distance of resident species has been found to show positive, negative, or no correlation with population density and time of birth. I suggest that the use of simple correlations, which fail to detect other relationships than monotonically increasing or decreasing ones, may be one explanation for this inconsistency. It is suggested that prior knowledge of a breeding area may tend to raise the quality of sites chosen and that short-dispersers therefore are more successful than long-dispersers. This may be an important advantage of philopatry.
