10.2307/40168302|Sanderlings (Calidris alba) breed within a small latitudinal range in the arctic while spreading in winter virtually throughout temperate and tropical marine beaches of the world. This paper examines spatial variation in Sanderlings nonbreeding density across the New World, documents annual cycle differences between populations wintering in California and those wintering in Peru and Chile, and then explores demographic and ecological factors underlying Sanderlings migration to different wintering grounds. Densities during the nonbreeding season are higher on the Pacific coast than on the Atlantic at all censused latitudes in the New World, and reach a peak in southwestern Peru and northwestern Chile adjacent to the Humboldt Current. Populations wintering in California spend a larger fraction of the year on the wintering site than do those wintering in Peru and Chile. Adults replace primaries during prebasic molt in both regions, as do first-winter Sanderlings in Peru and Chile. First-winter birds in California do not molt primaries. Comparisons of weight and time-activity budgets near the northern and southern ends of the winter distributions along the Pacific coast of the western hemisphere indicate that resource conditions are more favorable for Sanderlings in the south. /// Los playeros (Calidris alba) se reproducen en un rango de distribucin latitudinal muy circunscripto en el rtico, mientras que en invierno se dispersan hacia las playas templadas y tropicales de los mares del mundo. Este trabajo examina la variacin espacial en la densidad de playeros no anidadores en el Nuevo Mundo, presenta informacin sobre diferencias en los ciclos anuales entre las poblaciones que invernan en California y aquellas que invernan en Per y Chile y as explorar factores demogrficos y ecolgicos fundamentando las migraciones de playeros a diferentes reas de invernacin. Se observa que para todas las latidues censadas en el Nuevo Mundo las densidades durante la estacin no reproductiva son mayores en la costa del Pacfico que en la del Atlntico, teniendo su pico maximo en el suroeste de Per y el noroeste de Chile, adyacentes a la corriente de Humbolt. Las poblaciones que invernan en California pasan una mayor parte del ao en el sitio de invernada que las poblaciones que invernan en Peru y Chile. Los adultos reemplazan las primarias durante la muda prebasica en ambas regiones tal como lo hacen los playeros jvenes ("first-winter") que pasan su primera invernada en Peru y Chile. Los playeros que pasan la primera invernada en California no mudan las primarias. Comparaciones del peso y patrones de actividad cerca de los limites norte y sur de las reas de invernada a lo largo de la costa del Pacfico del hemisferio occidental indican que las condiciones de los recursos en el sur son mas favorables para los playeros.
10.2307/40157543|The Slaty Antshrike is currently considered a single polytypic species (Thamnophilus punctatus) that ranges from Belize to southeastern Brazil. We present evidence that its distribution is highly patchy and that geographic representatives differ in vocalizations and external morphology. As a consequence, we recommend that six species be recognized within the complex and that the taxonomic position of two additional taxa, potentially warranting species status, be reevaluated when their vocalizations and behavior are better known. Recognition at the species level has important conservation implications because most members of the complex are concentrated in tropical dry-forest habitats that are rapidly disappearing in the Neotropics. Moreover, our results suggest that studies of taxa occupying dry forest can provide new insights into the evolution of Neotropical birds. /// A choca-bate-cabo (Thamnophilus punctatus)  correntemente considerada uma espcie politpica nica que se distribui de Belize at o sudeste do Brasil. Apresentamos evidncia que sua distribuio  bem espalhada e que seus representantes geogrficos diferem em vocalizaes e morfologia externa. Como consequncia, recomendamos que sejam reconhecidas seis espcies dentro do complexo e que a posio taxonmica de dois txons adicionais, potencialmente merecedores do "status" de espcie, sejam reavaliados quando suas vocalizaes e comportamento estiverem melhor conhecidas. O reconhecimento ao nvel de espcie trn importante implicao na conservao porque a maioria dos membros do complexo esto concentrados em hbitats tropicais de floresta seca que esto rapidamente desaparecendo nos Neotrpicos. Alm disso, nossos resultados sugerem que estudos de txons que ocupam florestas secas podem fornecer novas perspectivas para entender a evoluo de aves neotropicais.
10.2307/40157536|Threatened birds of the Americas (1992) detailed 327 species, of which only four had ranges entirely outside the Neotropics, showing how important this latter region is for global bird conservation, contributing 30% of all threatened birds on earth. Brazil had 97 threatened species, Peru 64, and Colombia 56. These countries, plus Mexico, held three-quarters of all threatened birds in the Americas. Over 78% (256) of all threatened bird species possessed ranges of less than 50,000 km. Some 57% of all threatened birds were confined to wet forest, 17% to dry forest, and 10% to grasslands, a rapidly disappearing habitat type. Over 76% suffered from loss of habitat (for 49% this is the only threat); 16% and 11% suffered significantly from hunting and trade respectively, and 8% were threatened as a function of their restricted ranges. Roughly 30% (twice as many as in Africa) were Endangered (highest category), another 30% divided equally between Indeterminate and Vulnerable, 30% were Rare, and 10% were Insufficiently Known (lowest). Of 146 species in the two highest categories, only nine were under sufficient management regimes, 23 might already have become extinct, 16 needed immediate intervention, and 42 needed very urgent attention. Parrots (28% of New World species threatened) and cracids (26%) suffered disproportionately through the combination of habitat loss and intensive human exploitation (trade and hunting respectively). A key means of saving threatened species lies in the identification and protection of areas in which they are sympatric.
10.2307/40157531|Isozyme electrophoresis was used to assess genetic variation in potoos (Nyctibiidae), a distinctive Neotropical family of caprimulgiform nightbirds. Interspecific levels of genetic differentiation among potoos are extremely high (range of Nei's D = 0.191-1.172) and are comparable to intergeneric levels of differentiation in other bird families. In addition, levels of genetic differentiation between populations of both Nyctibius grandis and N. griseus from east and west of the Andes are comparable to the high genetic distances found in cross-Andes comparisons in other isozyme studies of Neotropical birds. These data suggest that extant potoo lineages are quite old, and that substantial genetic diversity exists in potoos that is not conveyed in the current taxonomy, in which most potoo species lack named or described intraspecific variation, and all species share a single genus. Phylogenetic analysis of isozyme data supports the monophyly of Nyctibiidae through comparisons with outgroups from five other caprimulgiform families. Our results also support the monophyly of a clade composed of Nyctibius maculosus, N. leucopterus, and N. griseus, and confirm maculosus and leucopterus as sister taxa. The relationships of other potoos remain essentially unresolved, although there is weak support for the placement of N. bracteatus as the basal taxon. Relationships among caprimulgiform families are also essentially unresolved by these data, although there is some support for a clade composed of Caprimulgidae, Aegothelidae, and Eurostopodidae. The very high genetic distances from Steatornis to all other caprimulgiforms indicate that it represents the earliest branching lineage in the order. /// Electroforesis de protenas fue usado para estudiar la variacin gentica de los nictibios (Nyctibiidae), una familia Neotropical de aves nocturnas. Los niveles de diferencia entre las especies de nictibios son altos (Nei's D = 0.191 hasta 1.172), tan alto como los niveles que se encuentran entre los gneros en otras familias de aves. Los niveles de diferencia entre las dos especies con representantes en los dos lados de los Andes (el occidente y el oriente), Nyctibius grandis y N. griseus, estn de acuerdo con esos observados en otros estudios de aves de quienes los representantes ocurren en los ambos lados de las montaas. Estos resultados sugieren que los lineajes evolucionarios de nictibios son antiguos y que bastante diversidad genetica existe que no se puede reconocer con la taxonomia corriente. Un anlisis filogentico de los datos indica que los nictibios pertenecen a un grupo monofiltico y diferente de otros grupos de aves nocturnas. Los resultados tambien apoyan la existencia de un grupo monofiltico compuesto de N. maculosus, N. leucopterus y N. griseus, en que las especies maculosus y leucopterus tienen una relacin mas cercana que con griseus. Las relaciones evolucionarias de los otros nictibios no fueron resolvadas, sin embargo los datos sugieren que N. bracteatus es la especie mas antigua. Tampoco resolvamos las relaciones entre las familias caprimulgiformas, aunque los datos sugieren que Caprimulgidae, Aegothelidae y Eurostopodidae son consanguineos. La grande distancia gentica que existe entre Steatornis y otras familias en el estudio, indica que Steatornis es la familia mas antigua de las aves nocturnas.
10.2307/40166836|Determining the degree of connectivity between breeding and wintering populations is critical for understanding the ecology and evolution of migratory systems. We analyzed stable hydrogen isotopic compositions in tail feathers ($\delta {\rm{D}}_{\rm{w}} $) collected from 26 sites in 11 countries throughout the wintering range of the American Redstart (Setophaga ruticilla), a Nearctic-Neotropical migratory passerine bird. Feathers were assumed to have molted on the breeding grounds, and $\delta {\rm{D}}_{\rm{w}} $ was used to estimate breeding origin. Values of $\delta {\rm{D}}_{\rm{w}} $ were highly correlated with longitude of sampling location, indicating that breeding populations were generally distributed along the east-west axis of the wintering grounds. Within the Caribbean region, Florida, and Bahamas, $\delta {\rm{D}}_{\rm{w}} $ values were negatively correlated with winter latitude, which suggests that American Redstarts exhibit a pattern of chain migration in which individuals wintering at northern latitudes are also the most northern breeders. To identify the most probable breeding regions, we used a likelihood-assignment test incorporated with a prior probability of breeding abundance using Bayes's rule. Expected D values of feathers from five breeding regions were based on interpolated D values from a model of continent-wide growing-season D values in precipitation ($\delta {\rm{D}}_{\rm{p}} $) and were adjusted to account for a discrimination factor between precipitation and feathers. At most wintering locations, breeding assignments were significantly different from expected frequencies based on relative breeding abundance. Birds wintering in eastern and western Mexico had a high probability of breeding in northwest and midwest North America, whereas birds in the Greater and Lesser Antilles were likely to have originated from breeding regions in the northeast and southeast, respectively. Migratory connectivity, such as we report here, implies that the dynamics of breeding and nonbreeding populations may be linked at a regional scale. These results provide a key opportunity for studying the year-round ecology and evolution of spatially connected populations in a migratory species. Received 12 September 2005, accepted 25 May 2006. /// Es importante determinar el grado de conectividad entre las poblaciones en reproduccin y las poblaciones en invernada, para entender la ecologa y evolucin de los sistemas migratorios. Analizamos la composicin isotpica de hidrgeno estable ($\delta {\rm{D}}_{\rm{w}} $) en plumas de la cola de Setophaga ruticilla, una especie de ave migratoria Nertica-Neotropical, colectadas a lo largo de las reas de invernada en 26 sitios en 11 pases. Se admiti que las plumas haban crecido en los sitios de anidacin y $\delta {\rm{D}}_{\rm{w}} $ se uso para estimar el origen de nacimiento. Los valores de $\delta {\rm{D}}_{\rm{w}} $ estuvieron altamente correlacionados con la longitud de las localidades muestreadas, lo que indica que las poblaciones en reproduccin estuvieron, por lo general, distribuidas a lo largo del eje este-oeste de los sitios de invernada. Los valores de $\delta {\rm{D}}_{\rm{w}} $, dentro de la regin caribea, Florida y Bahamas, estuvieron negativamente correlacionados con la latitud invernal, lo que sugiere que Setophaga ruticilla presenta un patrn de migracin en cadena en el cual los individuos que pasan el invierno en latitudes mas norteas tambin son los que se reproducen mas al norte. Para identificar las regiones de reproduccin ms probables, utilizamos una prueba de probabilidad de asignacin incorporada con una probabilidad a priori de abundancia reproductiva usando la regla de Bayes. Los valores esperados de D de las plumas de cinco regiones de reproduccin se basaron en valores interpolados de D de un modelo de crecimiento estacional de valores de D, a lo largo del continente, en la precipitacin ($\delta {\rm{D}}_{\rm{p}} $) y se ajustaron para explicar un factor de discriminacin entre la precipitacin y las plumas. En la mayora de las localidades de invernada, las asignaciones reproductivas fueron significativamente diferentes de las frecuencias esperadas basadas en la abundancia relativa de reproductores. Las aves que invernaron en el este y oeste de Mxico tuvieron una alta probabilidad de reproducirse en el noroeste y medio oeste de Amrica del Norte, mientras que las aves en las Antillas mayores y menores probablemente se originaron en zonas de reproduccin en el noreste y sureste, respectivamente. La conectividad migratoria, como la que reportamos aqu, involucra que la dinmica de las poblaciones en reproduccin y fuera de la temporada reproductiva puede estar ligada en una escala regional. Estos resultados ofrecen una oportunidad clave para el estudio del ciclo anual ecolgico y evolutivo de las poblaciones conectadas espacialmente en especies migratorias.
10.1525/om.2010.67.1.6|In this review I summarize the history of the subspecies concept and the major debates and issues surrounding its use, with an emphasis on ornithology, in which the concept originated. The study of subspecific variation in birds has been an important driving force in the development of evolutionary biology. Subspecific study has also been essential in the description and preservation of biodiversity. Although controversy has surrounded the concept of subspecies since its inception, it continues to play an important role in both basic and applied science. I cover 10 relevant issues that have been largely resolved during this 150-year controversy, although not all are widely appreciated or universally accepted. These include nomenclature, sampling theory, evolutionary biology, and the heterogeneity of named subspecies. I also address three big unresolved questions and some of the philosophy of science related to them: What are subspecies, how do we diagnose them, and what does subspecific variation mean? Discordance between genotypic and phenotypic data at these shallow evolutionary levels should be expected. The process of diagnosing states that exist along a continuum of differentiation can be difficult and contentious and necessarily has some arbitrariness; professional standards can be developed so that such diagnoses are objective. Taxonomies will change as standards do and as more data accrue. Given present evidence, our null hypothesis should be that subspecific variation probably reflects local adaptation. In looking forward, it seems assured that geographically partitioned variationand the convenient label "subspecies"will continue to play an integral role in zoology.
10.1525/om.2012.74.1.23|Anthropogenic noise can limit the ability of birds to communicate by masking their acoustic signals. Masking, which reduces the distance over which the signal can be perceived by a receiver, is frequency dependent, so the different notes of a single song may be masked to different degrees. We analyzed the individual notes of mating vocalizations produced by Greater Sage-Grouse (
44145282|Migration has evolved to allow organisms to undertake life-history functions in the most appropriate place at the most appropriate time. Migration creates seasonal ecological linkages that have important implications for survival, population dynamics, response to climate change, and conservation. Although advances in bird-borne tracking technology have promoted knowledge of avian migratory ecology, major information gaps remain for most avian species, including seabirds. Ours is the first study to electronically track the migration and wintering of Northern Gannets (Morus bassanus; hereafter "gannets") from almost all their North American breeding range, in multiple years and with multiple tracks from individual birds. Gannets used distinct wintering areas and aggregated in several major hotspots. Most adults remained along the northeast North American coast, and breeding populations displayed only weak migratory connectivity. Unexpectedly, the Gulf of Mexico was revealed to be an important wintering area for adults. Individual gannets displayed remarkable winter-site fidelity with extensive range overlap across years. Timing, rates of movement, and use of stopovers during migration depended strongly on winter destination and also on sex, colony, and year. Females left the colony prior to males in fall, but, contrary to expectation, earlier spring arrival of males was not detected. Variation in seasonal constraints was emphasized by faster and shorter spring migrations compared with fall. Migratory duration, distance, and timing of arrival and departure from the winter grounds were all repeatable, suggesting strong individual conservation in these traits, while variability in the timing of colony departure and arrival, migratory speed, and the extent of stopovers en route imply greater environmental influences on these behaviors. Three of 46 gannets displayed a radically different round-trip migration and overwinter strategy by undertaking the first recorded (and repeated), round-trip trans-Atlantic migrations to the coast of Africa, where gannets breeding in Europe overwinter. Trans-Atlantic crossings were as rapid as 5 days. Gannets breeding at all of the North American colonies located in easternmost Canada in Newfoundland made trans-Atlantic migrations. This contrasts with no such crossings by a much larger sample of gannets breeding in the species' largest North American colony (Bonaventure Island) in the Gulf of St. Lawrence. Similar trans-Atlantic migrations have not been recorded in the well-studied European colonies. The discovery of this trans-Atlantic connection has implications for interaction, connectivity, and phylogeographic radiation between the eastern and western Atlantic populations and suggests that migratory animals have a surprising capacity for successful movement beyond their known migrations. We discuss our results in the broader context of seabird migration. The observed patterns of migratory timing and scale-dependent connectivity present a novel opportunity to assess the ecological and conservation implications during migration and on the wintering grounds. The overall weak connectivity suggests that gannets, as a population, may have the capacity to respond to modest environmental change. However, the repeatability of some characters implies that any response may be slow because the population will respond, but not necessarily the individuals. The lability of migratory tactics in the population as a whole combined with remarkable individual consistency in some, but not all, migration parameters offers rare insight into the relative contributions of genetic and environmental factors controlling migration. La migration a volu pour permettre aux organismes d'accomplir les fonctions de leur cycle biologique  l'endroit et au moment les plus appropris. La migration cre des liens cologiques saisonniers ayant des rpercussions importantes sur la survie, la dynamique, l'adaptation aux changements climatiques et la conservation des populations. Bien que les avances technologiques relatives aux dispositifs fixs sur les oiseaux pour les suivre aient permis d'amliorer nos connaissances de l'cologie des migrations aviaires, il subsiste d'importantes lacunes  ce sujet pour la plupart des espces d'oiseaux, y compris les oiseaux marins. Notre tude est la premire qui permette de suivre lectroniquement la migration et l'hivernage de Fous de Bassan (Morus bassanus; ci-aprs  fous ) rpartis dans presque toute leur aire de nidification nord-amricaine, sur plusieurs annes et avec des tracs multiples pour les mmes individus. Les fous ont utilis des aires d'hivernage distinctes et se sont rassembls dans quelques zones de concentration majeure. La plupart des adultes sont demeurs le long de la cte nordest de l'Amrique du Nord, et les populations nicheuses n'ont prsent qu'une connectivit migratoire faible. Fait inconnu jusque-l, le golfe du Mexique s'est avr tre une aire d'hivernage importante pour les adultes. Individuellement, les fous ont t remarquablement fidles  leur site d'hivernage, l'aire utilise se chevauchant de faon importante d'une anne  l'autre. La chronologie de migration, le taux de dplacement et l'utilisation des haltes migratoires taient fortement lis  la destination d'hivernage de mme qu'au sexe,  la colonie et  l'anne. Les femelles ont quitt la colonie avant les mles  l'automne, mais contrairement aux attentes, l'arrive plus htive des mles au printemps n'a pas t dtecte. Les migrations printanires taient plus rapides et plus courtes que celles  l'automne, faisant ressortir la variation des contraintes saisonnires. La grande reproductibilit de la dure et de la distance de la migration, de mme que de la chronologie d'arrive et de dpart de l'aire d'hivernage donne  penser qu'il existe une forte rtention individuelle de ces caractristiques, tandis que la variabilit de la chronologie de dpart et d'arrive  la colonie, de la vitesse de migration et de l'importance des haltes migratoires implique l'existence d'une influence environnementale plus grande sur ces comportements. Trois des 46 fous ont accompli un cycle migratoire et adopt une stratgie d'hivernage radicalement diffrents des autres, en effectuant (et de faon rpte) les premiers allersretours migratoires transatlantiques jusqu'aux ctes de l'Afrique jamais enregistrs, rejoignant sur leur aire d'hivernage les fous nichant en Europe. Les traverses de l'Atlantique prenaient aussi peu que 5 jours. Les fous provenant des colonies nord-amricaines les plus  l'est au Canada, soit  Terre-Neuve, ont fait ces migrations transatlantiques. Ce rsultat contraste avec le fait qu'aucun fou provenant de la plus grande colonie d'Amrique du Nord (l'le Bonaventure, dans le golfe du Saint-Laurent) n'a effectu une traverse de cet ordre, mme avec un chantillon beaucoup plus grand d'oiseaux. Des migrations transatlantiques de ce genre n'ont jamais t rapportes chez les colonies d'Europe, pourtant bien tudies. La dcouverte de cette connexion transatlantique a des incidences quant  l'interaction, la connectivit et la radiation phylogographique entre les populations des deux cts de l'Atlantique, et laisse croire que les animaux migrateurs ont la capacit surprenante d'effectuer des dplacements profitables au-del des migrations connues. Nous mettons en perspective nos rsultats dans le contexte plus large de la migration chez les oiseaux marins. Les tendances observes pour la chronologie de migration et la connectivit selon l'chelle considre prsentent une nouvelle possibilit d'valuer les effets sur le plan de l'cologie et de la conservation au moment de la migration et de l'hivernage. La connectivit relativement faible dans l'ensemble indique que les fous, considrs en tant que population, pourraient avoir la capacit de rpondre  des changements environnementaux modestes. Cependant, le caractre reproductible de certains attributs implique que toute raction pourrait tre lente puisque la population ragira, mais pas ncessairement les individus. L'adaptabilit des stratgies migratoires dans l'ensemble de la population, combine avec la remarquable constance individuelle pour certains des paramtres de migration (mais pas tous), offre un rare aperu de la contribution relative des facteurs gntiques et environnementaux qui contrlent la migration.
10.2307/40168291|Protein electrophoresis and discriminant function analysis (DFA) were used to analyze differences between members of a sibling species pair, Mionectes oleagineus and M. macconnelli (Tyrannidae). Three populations were examined: oleagineus from Bolivia, where it is sympatric with macconnelli, macconnelli from Bolivia, where it is sympatric with oleagineus, and oleagineus from northeastern Peru, where macconnelli does not occur. In spite of the extreme similarity in external morphology of the two Mionectes, genetic distance measures indicate that these species have diverged as much as other avian congeners. Percentage of polymorphic loci and average heterozygosity values are typical for birds, and no fixed differences were detected. DFA of morphological characters showed that the two species could be correctly separated 91.2% of the time. Contrary to predictions of competition theory, sympatric oleagineus and macconnelli are morphologically more similar to each other than either is to allopatric oleagineus. /// Se usaron electroforesis de protenas y anlisis de funcin discriminatoria (DFA) para analizar las diferencias entre miembros de un par de especies gemelas, Mionectes oleagineus y M. macconnelli (Tyrannidae). Tres poblaciones fueron examinadas: oleagineus de Bolivia, donde esta especie se encuentra junto con ("sympatrica") macconnelli; macconnelli de Bolivia donde se encuentra junto con oleagineus; y oleagineus del noreste de Per donde no se encuentra macconnelli. A pesar de las similaridades morfolgicas externas de ambas especies de Mionectes, las medidas de distancias genticas indican que estas especies han divergido tanto entre si como con respecto a otras especies de aves congenricas. Porcentajes de "loci" polimrficos y valores promedios de heterocigoticidad, son los tpicos para aves, y no se detectaron diferencias fijas. DFA de carcteres morfolgicos muestran que las dos especies pueden ser separadas correctamente el 91,2% de las veces. Contrariamente con las predicciones en la teora de competitin, las especies "sympatricas" oleaginus y macconnelli morfologicamente son ms similares entre si que cualquiera de ellas lo es con la aloptrica oleagineus.
10.2307/40168306|A survey of the clutch size of 217 species of passerines of the humid neotropics shows that two is the prevailing number of eggs, sets of one and three are less frequent, and larger sets are rare. Contrary to what we should expect from the theory of maximum reproduction--that birds rear as many young as they can ade-quately nourish--unaided females commonly have broods as large as those attended by both parents, sometimes with helpers. Failure to find consistent correlation between clutch size and number of nest attendants, diet, habitat, or type of nest (other than the well-known tendency of hole-nesters to rear larger broods) leads us to seek some factor, or factors, that profoundly influence the reproduction of most birds of the humid neotropics. Not to be neglected is the high percentage of nest failures, greater in forest than in neighboring clearings and plantations, and greater at low than at high elevations. Available evidence leaves the effect of human visits on nest losses uncertain; hatching failure due to infertility, faulty incubation, or other intrinsic factors appears to be no greater in the tropics than at higher latitudes; predation is certainly responsible for most losses. The major factor responsible for the small clutches of tropical birds of many kinds appears to be, as Cody and Ricklefs have argued, the less strongly contrasting seasons of the humid tropics--a measure of which is the annual march of evapotranspiration--as compared with northern lands. The restrained reproductive effort of tropical birds is adjusted to their low annual mortality in a climate that does not force birds to confront a season of scarcity and stress unless they undertake hazardous migrations. Moreover, the high incidence of predation on nests makes it advantageous to limit the energy expended on a brood, so that, if this fails, strength remains for repeated trials. Also, the smaller the brood, the fewer the feeding visits that may reveal the nest's location to predators. Because ornithology was born in the north temperate zone where broods tend to be large, we ask why the broods of tropical birds are so small. If more ornithologists had grown up in the tropics, we would be asking why birds at high latitudes lay so many eggs--a question easier to answer. /// Un estudio del tamao de las nidadas de 217 especies de passeri-formes de las regiones hmedas neotropicales, muestra que el nmero prevaleciente de huevos en una nidada es dos; siendo menos frecuentes nidadas de uno o tres huevos y son raras las nidadas ms grandes. Contrariamente a lo que deberamos esperar, si consideramos la teora de mxima reproduccin--que las aves cran tantos polluelos como les es posible alimentar--las hembras que no tienen ayuda cudan nidadas tan grandes como aquellas nidadas que son atendidas por ambos padres, que algunas veces tienen ayudantes. El no encontrar una correlacin consistente para la relacin entre el tamao de la nidada y el nmero de encargados del nido, dieta, habitat o tipo de nido (otra que la tendencia conocida para los anidadores en huecos que cran grandes nidadas), nos hace considerar ciertos factores que influyen profundamente la reproduccin de la mayora de las aves de las regiones hmedas de los neotrpicos. Algo que no debe ser descuidado es el alto procentaje de fracasos de anidacin, los cuales son mayores en el bosque que en las zonas abiertas o plantaciones cercanas y mayor a baja que a altas elevaciones. No est claro que efecto tienen las visitas humanas en las prdidas de nidos; fracasos de eclosin debido a infertilidad, incubacin defectuosa, u otros factores intrnsecos que parecen no ser ms importantes en los trpicos que en otras latitudes ms elevadas; la depredacin es por cierto la mayor responsable en la mayora de las prdidas. El factor mayormente responsable por el tamao pequeo de las nidadas de las aves neotropicales de cualquier tipo parece ser, tal como lo discutiesen Cody y Ricklefs, el menor contraste entre las estaciones en los trpicos hmedos--lo cual puede ser medido por la marcha anual de evapo-transpiracin--si se compara con tierras septentrionales. El esfuerzo reproductivo moderado de las aves tropicales, se ajusta a la baja mortalidad anual en un clima que no fuerza a las aves a enfrentar una estacin de escasez y "stress," a no ser que participen en migraciones riesgosas. Mas an la gran incidencia de depredacin en los nidos hace ventajoso limitar el gasto de energia en una nidada, de manera que si falla, an quedar con fuerzas suficientes para intentarlo nuevamente. As mismo, cuanto ms pequea sea la nidada, ser menor cantidad de visitas para alimentacin que podr revelar la posicin del nido a los depredadores. Debido a que los estudios ornitholgicos nacieron en las zonas templadas del norte, donde las nidadas tienden a ser grandes, nos preguntamos, porque las nidadas de aves tropicales son pequeas. Si ms ornitlogos hubiesen crecido en los trpicos, nos estaramos preguntando porque las aves de latitudes ms elevadas ponen tantos huevos--una pregunta ms fcil de responder.
10.2307/40166799|We conducted a meta-analysis to provide a current assessment of the population characteristics of California Spotted Owls (Strix occidentalis occidentalis) resident on four study areas in the Sierra Nevada and one study area in southern California. Our meta-analysis followed rigorous a priori analysis protocols, which we derived through extensive discussion during a week-long analysis workshop. Because there is great interest in the owl's population status, we used state-of-the-art analytical methods to obtain results as precise as possible. Our meta-analysis included data from five California study areas located on the Lassen National Forest (1990-2000), Eldorado National Forest (1986-2000), Sierra National Forest (1990-2000), Sequoia and Kings Canyon national parks (1990-2000), and San Bernardino National Forest (1987-1998). Four of the five study areas spanned the length of the Sierra Nevada, whereas the fifth study area encompassed the San Bernardino Mountains in southern California. Study areas ranged in size from 343 km (Sequoia and Kings Canyon) to 2,200 km (Lassen). All studies were designed to use capture-recapture methods and analysis. We used survival in a meta-analysis because field methods were very similar among studies. However, we did not use reproduction in a meta-analysis because it was not clear if variation among individual study-area protocols used to assess reproductive output of owls would confound results. Thus, we analyzed fecundity only by individual study area. We examined population trend using the reparameterized Jolly-Seber capture-recapture estimator (
10.2307/40166723|Sexual coercion was defined previously as "use by a male of force, or threat of force, that functions to increase the chances that a female will mate with him at a time when she is likely to be fertile, and to decrease the chances that she will mate with other males, at some cost to the female." Forced extrapair copulation (FEPC), a well-known phenomenon in waterfowl, is reexamined in detail as a prime example of sexual coercion in birds. Monogamy is the basic mating system in almost all waterfowl, opportunities for polygyny are rare, and males of many species seek extra-pair copulations (EPCs). Presence of a male intromittent organ in waterfowl, thought to have evolved in association with copulation while swimming, makes forced EPC feasible. Evidence (as follows) for FEPC as a secondary male reproductive strategy is reviewed: males involved are usually paired, eggs can be fertilized, FEPC attempts focus on fertile females, males have elaborate tactics to secure FEPCs, males defend their mates against FEPC by other males, and males perform forced pair copulation after FEPC has occurred on their mates. Females resist FEPC and show elaborate escape behavior (flying, diving, hiding, sneaking). Female resistance may be a tactic to preserve the pair-bond and the investment of the mate. Incubating female dabbling ducks have special "repulsion" behavior that indicates their nonfertile status and seems to discourage males from FEPC. Females incur costs from FEPC, including risk of injury or death during multimale FEPC attempts, energetic costs of escape behavior, and abandonment of nesting attempts caused by harassment. FEPC has been recorded in 55 species of waterfowl in 17 genera. FEPC apparently is absent in swans, shelducks and sheldgeese, steamer ducks, and most sea ducks. In some of these cases, there may be a trade-off between territoriality and FEPC. Other avian groups in which FEPC has been reported include albatrosses, pelicans, herons, gulls, auks, bee-eaters, swallows, waxbills, and corvids. Females may be especially vulnerable to FEPC in breeding colonies when left unguarded by the mate. In general, FEPC appears to be uncommon in birds other than waterfowl, but there are some species in which males do appear to be able to overpower females. Many opportunities for future research are noted.
10.2307/40157563|A new species of tyrant-flycatcher (Tolmomyias) is described from the western Amazon basin. The species occurs in the sub-canopy of river-edge and vrzea forest, and is syntopic with three other members of the genus (T. assimilis, T. poliocephalus and T. flaviventris). The plumage of the new species is quite distinctive, but the wing-formula resembles that of T. sulphurescens, and the vocalizations of the new species are similar to those of some populations of T. sulphurescens as well. Furthermore, the new species appears to be parapatric with T. sulphurescens insignis, with which it may show an unusual pattern of "opposite-bank" replacement in vrzea and river-edge habitats. /// Se describe una nueva especie de atrapamoscas (Tyrannidae: Tolmomyias) de la parte occidental de la cuenca amaznica. La nueva especie se encuentra en el subdosel del bosque del margen de ro y vrzea, y es simptrica con tres otros miembros del gnero (T. assimilis, T. poliocephalus, y T. flaviventris). El plumaje de la nueva especie es muy distinctive pero la formula de la ala se parece a T. sulphurescens , y las vocalizaciones de la nueva especie son parecidas a algunas de las poblaciones de T. sulphurescens tambin. Adems, la nueva especie parece ser paraptrica con T. sulphurescens insignis, con la cual podra demostrar un patrn poco comn de reemplazo de "rivera opuesta" en vrzea y hbitats de la margen de ro.
10.1525/om.2012.74.1.91|Noise pollution can mask or distort bird songs, which can inhibit mating success, predator detection, and parental response to begging calls. We examined the impact of road construction noise on territory selection, reproductive success, and behavior of the federally endangered Golden-cheeked Warbler (
10.2307/40157529|The taxonomy and South American distribution of three species of Tiaris grassquits are reviewed. I focus on the two most widespread species, Dull-colored Grassquit (T. obscura) and Sooty Grassquit (T. fuliginosa), because together they form a circum-Amazonian distribution. Membership of the Dull-colored Grassquit in Tiaris has been proposed only recently. Although only four subspecies of Dull-colored Grassquit are currently recognized, this species contains at least six diagnosable populations that include a "leapfrog" pattern of geographic variation through the Andes. In contrast, insufficient specimen material is available to diagnose apparently isolated populations of the Sooty Grassquit that occur north, east, and south of the Amazon Basin. The three currently recognized subspecies are not separable based on the male plumage characters used to describe them. South American subspecies of the primarily West Indian Blackfaced Grassquit (T. bicolor) occur syntopically with T. obscura and T. fuliginosa in northern South America. The similarity of these three species has lead to confusion regarding their South American distributions, and many specimens have been incorrectly identified. I present the first records of Dull-colored Grassquit for Paraguay and possibly Brazil, and of Sooty Grassquit for Bolivia. I also present an unpublished record of Sooty Grassquit for Colombia. Colombian specimens previously referred to this species are actually T. obscura. /// Se hizo una evaluatin de la taxonoma y de la distribucin de tres especies de Tordillos Tiaris. Pongo mayor enfoque en las dos especies que tiene la ms amplia distribucin en Sudamrica, Tordillo pardo (T. obscura) y Tordillo ahumado (T. fuliginosa), porque los dos juntas forman una distribucin circum-Amaznica. Se ha propuesto solo recientemente que los Tordillos pardo pertenecen a los miembros de Tiaris. Aunque solamente se reconocen cuatro subespecies de Tordillo pardo; las especies contienen a lo menos seis poblaciones diagnosticables que incluyen un patrn de "saltacabrilla" de variacin geogrphica a travs de los Andes. A diferencia, aunque hay tres subespecies, aparentemente no hay suficientes caractersticas diferentes disponibles para hacer un diagnstico de las poblaciones aisladas del Tordillo ahumado que se encuentran por la parte norte, este, y sur del Amazonia. Las subespecies sudamericanas principalmente del Tordillo comn antillano (T. bicolor) ocurren de una manera sintpica con T. obscura y T. fuliginosa en la parte norte de sudamrica. La similitud entre estas tres especies ha creado mucha confusin en cuanto a su distribucin sudamericana y muchos especmenes han sido identificados de una manera incorrecta. Presento los primeros rcords del Tordillo pardo para Paraguay y posiblemente de Brasil, y del Tordillo ahumado para Bolivia. Tambin presento un rcord no publicado del Tordillo ahumado para Colombia. Otros especmenes colombianos que han sido referidos a esta especie son realmente T. obscura.
10.2307/40168308|The Shiny Cowbird (Molothrus bonariensis), an avian brood parasite, was originally confined to South America, Trinidad, and Tobago. During the last 86 years it has rapidly spread into the West Indies. The relationship between the Shiny Cowbird and the Yellow-hooded Blackbird (Agelaius icterocephalus) in Trinidad, an area of long parasite-host interaction, is compared with the relationship between the cowbird and the Yellow-shouldered Blackbird (A. xanthomus) in Puerto Rico, an area of recent cowbird-host interaction. The level of parasitism suffered by the Yellow-shouldered Blackbird (94.2% of nests) is significantly greater than that sustained by the Yellow-hooded Blackbird (44.8% of nests). This difference is related to dissimilarities between the two blackbird species in nest placement and form of nest defense. In mangrove study areas in Puerto Rico 61 percent (11 of 18) of the resident passerine species were parasitized by the Shiny Cowbird. Cowbird parasitism reduced host productivity, depressing their nest success rate below that of non-parasitized nests. Parasitized pairs had fewer eggs and fledged fewer of their own chicks than did nonparasitized pairs. The high rates of parasitism observed for some species in Puerto Rico probably reflect the cowbird's recent arrival and exploitation of an island avifauna presumably lacking effective anti-parasite defenses. Some nesting species, however, have effective anti-parasite strategies, including alien egg rejection and nest guarding. The species of the recently exposed Puerto Rican avifauna are classified as acceptors and rejectors of alien eggs, behavioral categories also found in populations long associated with brood parasites. The rate of parasitism was negatively correlated with degree of a species' aggressive response toward the Shiny Cowbird, with regularly parasitized species showing less aggression toward cowbirds than non-parasitized species. Behavior effective in avoiding parasitism is similar to that used by certain birds in evading nest predation, and we suggest that anti-predator behavior is a preadaptation for countering cowbird parasitism. /// El Tordo Lustroso (Molothrus bonariensis), una ave parasitca, se encontraba originalmente confinada a Sur America, Trinidad, y Tobago. Durante los ltimos 86 aos, esta ave se ha expandido rapidamente en la region Caribea. Una comparacin importante es entre el Turpial de Agua (Agelaius icterocephalus) en Trinidad, una regin donde el Tordo Lustroso es endmico, y la Mariquita de Puerto Rico (A. xanthomus), una regin donde el Tordo Lustroso ha reciente llegado. El nivel del parasitismo (94.2%) sostenido por La Mariquita es significativamente ms grande que el sostenido por el Turpial de Agua (44.8%). Esta diferencia est relacionado con diferentes sitios de anidacin e el grado de defensa de los nidos. En areas de estudio de Puerto Rico, 61 por ciento ( 11 de 18) de las especies paserinas residente estaban siendo parasitados. El parasitismo del tordo efecta al hospedero por reducir la productivida del hospedero, disminuyendo el xito del periodo de anidacin en comparacin con los nidos no parasitados. Parejas parasitadas producen menos huevos y pajaros volantones que parejas no-parasitados. Los altos indices de parasitismo observado para algunos especies en Puerto Rico estn probablemente relacionados a la reciente llegado del tordo y a la explotacin por parte de este de la fauna islea que presumablemente carece de defensas antiparasiticas efecivas, incluyendo el rechazo de huevos extraos y vigilancia del nido. Encontramos que, al igual que en poblaciones de aves que tienen largos periodos coevolutivos con este tipo de parasitismo de crianza, las recientemente expuesta poblaciones de aves anidando en Puerto Rico fueron dividas en categorias discretas de aceptor y no-aceptor de huevos extrans. El indice de parasitismo resulto estar negativamente correlacionado con la respuesta agresiva de los especies hacia el tordo, siendo las especies parasitados las que demuestran menos agresin hacia el tordo que las especies no parasitados. El comportamiento efectivo para evitar el parasitismo es similar al el usado por ciertos aves para evadir los depredadores de nidos, y nosotros sugerimos que el comportamiento de un antidepredador es preadaptivo contra el parasitismo del Tordos lustroso.
10.2307/40587708|Ernst Mayr's 22 years at the American Museum of Natural History were not only formative years for him; they were a period of unprecedented growth and development in the Department of Ornithology. Here, I recount some of the events of those years. Los 22 aos de Ernst Mayr en el Museo Americano de Historia Natural no slo fueron aos formativos para l; fueron un perodo de crecimiento y desarrollo sin precedentes en el Departamento de Ornitologa. En este ensayo recuento algunos de los eventos de aquellos aos.
10.2307/40168292|Three subspecies of the Lesser Nighthawk ( Chordeiles acutipennis) are recognized in southwestern United States and in Middle America; texensis (with inferior as a synonym), Texas to California, south to the northern arid regions of Mexico, a large pale form with a pale and finely vermiculated juvenal plumage; micromeris, northern arid zone of Yucatan Peninsula, a small pale form with gray juvenal plumage with coarser dark markings; an littoralis, central Mexico south to Costa Rica (separating the ranges of texensis and micromeris), a medium-sized richly colored form with juveniles a darker gray with a generally brownish cast. /// En el sudoeste de los Estados Unidos y en Amrica Central se reconocen tres subespecies del halcn nocturno (Chordeiles acutipennis): texensis (con inferior como sinnimo), desde Texas hasta California, y hacia el sur hasta las regiones ridas del norte de Mxico, es grande y plido con un plumaje juvenil plido y suavemente vermiculado; micromeris, de la zona rida del norte de la pennensula de Yucatn, es plido y pequeo y los juveniles presentan un plumaje grisaseo con marcas gruesas oscuras y littoralis que se encuentra desde el centro de Mxico hacia el sur hasta Costa Rica (separando las reas de distribution de texensis y micromeris), siendo de tamao mediano con vistosa coloratin, los juveniles son gris oscuro, generalmente, con tonos amarronados.
10.1525/om.2011.70.1.109|Myanmar is a large, biodiverse country located between India and China in the west and east, and south of Tibet. Kachin State, situated in far northern Myanmar, is expected to be especially biodiverse because of its habitat and climatic diversity, ranging from lowland riparian areas to the high-elevation Himalayan Mountains. These areas of northern Myanmar are especially poorly known biologically, largely because of their difficult terrain, rugged mountains, and enormous rivers. We summarize the ornithological history of northern Myanmar and document the names, dates, and geographic areas (along with a bilingual gazetteer of names) of major ornithological expeditions. Because foreign naturalists made most of the bird collections, the resulting material is scattered around the world. We have compiled and organized information about past research and collections, and we suggest areas for future research investment. To date, few local areas within northern Myanmar have been surveyed, including the far northern region of Kachin State up to the last village of Tahawndam, the southeastern part of Kachin State around Laukkaung-Hpimaw, the southern part of Kachin around the town of Myitkyina, the northwestern area of Putao District, the northeastern part of Kachin around Taron and Thala Wang, and the central part of Kachin around the Triangle, which is the area between the May Hka River and Mali Hka River. Our analysis identifies several significant geographic areas where additional collection and documentation are needed, biodiversity is high, and local endemism is likely. These areas include the upper area of Chimili pass, the northeast portion of Kachin, the Kumon range, the central portion of Kachin, and the Hponkan Razi Wildlife Sanctuary.
10.2307/40166890|Sabah is the Malaysian state representing former British North Borneo. It is well known for its rich forests, impressive mountains (including Mt. Kinabalu), and diverse avifauna. Ornithologists have explored and published on the birds of Sabah since the 1850s. This monograph reviews the work of these ornithologists by providing an historical overview of their explorations and studies; a gazetteer describing the sites at which they worked; an annotated checklist summarizing what they learned about birds, particularly in regard to distribution, habitat preferences, and breeding; and a bibliography of ornithological and related publications. The purpose of this report is to set the stage for future research on the birds of Sabah. This goal is accomplished in two ways. First, by reviewing what has been done, the history and gazetteer serve as a guide for expedition planners, wildlife managers, conservationists, and other scientists as they seek information on study sites. Certain parts of Sabah have been well studied (e.g., the East and West coasts), but other areas are poorly explored (e.g., the northcentral mountains and the south-central uplands). Second, by summarizing what is known about the birds of Sabah, the annotated checklist and bibliography provide a guide to research needs. Although a great deal is known about the distribution of birds in Sabah, remarkably little work has been done on bird ecology and evolution. Only a handful of modern, quantitative studies have been conducted on the population genetics, phylogeny, biogeography, migration, community ecology, or autecology of Sabah's birds. This dearth of ornithological information is a burden for conservationists, as they struggle to preserve the last bits of forest in Sabah, but it presents a great opportunity for bird researchers.
10.2307/40157553|During eight weeks of fieldwork between July and September 1993 we inventoried the avifauna of the central Ro Tuichi valley, depto. La Paz, northwestern Bolivia. The valley supports a complex mosaic of habitat types, including dry forest, lower montane rainforest, and floodplain forest. This study emphasized bird surveys of the 1,200 km tract of inter-Andean dry forest. Most of this dry forest valley falls within the boundaries of the newly created Parque Nacional Madidi. A list of the 275 bird species that were recorded is presented, along with notes on preferred habitat, relative abundance, and evidence. Species accounts are provided for noteworthy records, including one species new to Bolivia, (Basileuterus chrysogaster), four species new to depto. La Paz, (Dendrocygna viduata, Buteo albonotatus, Micrastur semitorquatus, and Cyanerpes cyaneus), and five additional species (Neomorphus geoffroyi, Myrmotherula grisea, Herpsilochmus sp., Cranioleuca sp., and Oxyruncus cristatus). Biogeographically, the avifauna represents an interesting mixture of species from dry and open habitats, lowland Amazonian rainforest, lower montane rainforest, as well as a number of species with wide elevational ranges. The central Ro Ibichi dry forest is a high priority for conservation. Its large pristine area, low human population, close proximity and dependence on surrounding humid ecosystems, and isolated geographical position make it ideally situated for preservation. Additionally, no other Andean or lowland dry forests are represented in Bolivian protected areas, and Neotropical dry forests are threatened throughout their Neotropical range. The conservation importance is further underscored by the high bird diversity for such dry forests, the unique biogeographical bird species mixture, and the presence of rare, poorly known, undescribed, threatened, endemic, and range-restricted bird species. Parque Nacional Madidi represents one of the best opportunities in South America for the conservation of inter-Andean dry forests and a number of other globally threatened ecosystems. /// Durante ocho semanas de trabajo de campo entre Julio y Septiembre de 1993 realizamos un inventario de la avifauna de una regin de 1,200 km de bosque seco interandino del valle central del Ro Tuichi, depto. de La Paz, noroeste de Bolivia. Este valle mantiene un mosaico complejo de diferentes tipos de habitats, incluyendo bosque seco, bosque Iluvioso de baja montaiia, y bosque estacionalmente inundado. La mayor parte del bosque seco de este valle se encuentra dentro los limites de la reciendeclarado Parque Nacional Madidi. Una lista de las 275 especies de aves que fueron registradas es presentada, junto con notas sobre las preferencias de habitas, abundancia relativa, y evidencia. Algunos registros son proporcionadas para una especie nueva para Bolivia, (Basileuterus chrysogaster), cuatro especies nuevas para el depto. de La Paz, (Dendrocygna viduata, Buteo albonotatus, Micrastur semitorquatus, y Cyanerpes cyaneus) y cinco especies adicionales (Neomorphus geoffroyi, Myrmotherula grisea, Herpsilochmus sp., Cranioleuca sp., y Oxyruncus cristatus), para los cuales obtuvimos notables registros. Biogeogrficamente, la avifauna representa una interesante mezcla de especies de habitats secos y abiertos, bosque lluviosos de tierras bajas amazonicas, bosques lluviosos de baja montaa, asi tambin un nmero de especies con amplio rango altitudinal. El bosque deciduo de este valle representa uno de los mejores ejemplos de su tipo en los Neotropicos, y esta idealmente situado para la preservacin debido a su gran dimension y estatus pristino, la baja poblacin humana, y aislamiento del valle. La importancia de su conservacin es ms valiosa por la alta diversidad de especies de aves para tales bosques secos, la singular mezcla biogeogrfica de especies de aves, y la presencia de especies de aves raras, poco conocidas, no descritas, amenazadas, y de rango restringido. Parque Nacional Madidi representa una de las mejores oportunidades en Sud America para la conservacin del bosques secos interandinos y un sinnmero de otras ecosistmas globalmente amenazados.
10.2307/40168325|The only storks in the New World, the Wood Stork (Mycteria americana), the Maguari Stork (Ciconia maguari), and the Jabiru (Jabiru mycteria), were studied in the llanos of Venezuela. Stork weights and linear measurements are given, and behaviors are described and compared. The storks use both different foraging-techniques and intraspecific foraging-associations; these may result in resource partitioning among the storks and with other waterbirds. Although their diets of mostly aquatic organisms overlap broadly, available data suggest that the percent of each food class taken, and prey-sizes, are not alike. The three storks also differ in morphology, resident status, pair bond length, breeding months, nest-site preference, and nesting dispersion. The timing and amount of annual rainfall influences the storks' breeding months through the availability and abundance of food. /// En los llanos de Venezuela fueron estudiadas las nicas especies de cigueas del Nuevo Mundo, la Ciguea Gabn (Mycteria americana), la Ciguea Americana (Ciconia maguari) y el Jabir (Jabiru mycteria). Se brinda informacin sobre pesos y medidas lineales de las cigueas y se describen y comparan comportamientos. Las cigueas usan tanto tcnicas de alimentatin y diferentes como asociaciones de forraje interespecincas; esas pueden resultar en la reparticin de los recursos entre cigueas as como con otras aves acuticas. Aunque sus dietas son mayormente de organismos acuticos y se superponen ampliamente, la informacin disponible sugiere que el porcentaje de cada clase de comida consumida y el tamao de las presas, no son similiares. Las tres cigueas tambin son diferentes en sus aspectos morfolgicos, situacin como residentes, duracin de parejas, meses de reproduccin, sitios preferidos para anidacin y dispersin de anidacin. La poca y la cantidad de lluvias anuales, influyen en los meses de reproduccin a travs de la disponibilidad y abundancia de comida.
10.2307/40168274|Pyrrhura picta eisenmanni, a new subspecies, is described from a series of 11 specimens taken in the southern corner of the Azuero Peninsula, Los Santos Province, Panama. It resembles most closely P. picta subandina of northern Colombia and represents an extension of this mainly South American species to these mountains of Panama. /// Una nueva subespecie, Pyrrhura picta eisenmanni se describe en base a 11 especmenes coleccionados en el extremo sur de la Pennsula de Azuero, en la provincia de los Santos, Panam. Ella se asemeja ms a la subespecie P. picta subandina del norte de Colombia y el hallazgo de estos ejemplares representa una extensin en el rango de distribucin de esta especie primeramente sudamericana hasta esas montaas panameas.
10.2307/40168287|The beech (Nothofagus) forests of Patagonia (southern South America) are isolated from other South American forests by 1100 (Andean forests of northwestern Argentina) to 1400 (lowland forests of southern Brazil) km of nonforest vegetation (including matorral, steppe, monte, espinal, pampa grassland, chaco woodland). This isolation makes the Nothofagus forest biome an island-like biota. Its avifauna includes 46 species of 40 genera, in 21 families of breeding landbirds. The patterns of ecological, elevational, and latitudinal distribution of these forest-inhabiting species of birds suggest that they have a wide habitat-niche, a pattern characteristic of truly insular taxa. Isolate formation has taken place in populations of a few species living on outlying islands but has led to insular speciation in three cases only, in the genera Aphrastura, Anairetes, and Sephanoides. The majority of forest species show no geographical variation on the continent. Only two cases of actual or potential continental speciation were detected, in the genera Pteroptochos and Scytalopus. Both are centered on the valley of the Rio Bo-Bo (central Chile), which may act as a barrier to gene flow. Several forest-dwelling allospecies are members of superspecies including one or more other allospecies that occupy forest or nonforest vegetation elsewhere in South America or in North America. Endemism is high in the Patagonian forest avifauna; about 41 percent of the species and allospecies, and 10 percent of the genera, are restricted in their distribution to the Nothofagus forest region. Levels of endemism were analyzed taking into account three different classifications of these birds, in order to assess the effects of changes in taxonomic practice on our evaluation of endemism. Levels of endemism in Patagonian forest birds (inhabiting a habitat island) are intermediate between the lower levels found in Tasmanian forest birds (a continental island) and the high levels found in New Zealand forest birds (an oceanic island group). Endemism in Patagonian forest birds is concentrated among the species that belong to families now distributed in South America, or to families that have been attributed to old autochthonous faunal elements (especially the Furnariidae and the Rhinocryptidae). The implications of these findings are discussed in terms of the Cenozoic history of the Patagonian forest region. The cycles of glaciation and deglaciation of the Pleistocene have played an important role in the development of the present avifauna. Niche shifts have been a biologically significant element in the evolution of several forest birds whose ancestors probably came from open vegetation farther north in the Andes or east in the lowlands of southern South America. The present fauna is a mixture of old relicts and of several strata of more or less recent immigrants. /// Los bosques de hayas (Nothofagus) de Patagonia (la porcin ms austral de Sudamrica) estn aislados de otros bosques sudamericanos por 1.100 km (bosques andinos del noroeste argentino) hasta 1.400 km (bosques de galeras del sur de Brazil) por vegetacin no boscosa (incluyendo matorral, estepa, monte, espinal, pampas y monte chaqueo). Esta aislacin convierte a los bosques de Nothofagus en una biota de tipo insular. Su avifauna incluye 46 especies en 40 gneros, en 21 familias de aves terrestres anidadoras. Los modelos de distribution ecolgica, altitudinal y latitudinal de las especies habitantes de estos bosques sugieren que poseen un amplio nicho-habitat, situacin caracterstica de taxa verdaderamente insulares. Se ha producido diferenciacin ("isolate formation") en poblaciones de pocas especies que viven en islas perifricas, pero se ha producido especiacion insular en slo tres casos, en los gneros Aphrastura, Anairetes y Sephanoides. La mayora de las especies de bosque no presentan diferenciacin geogrfica en el continente. Slo dos casos de especiacin actual o potencial han sido detectados en situaciones continentales: en los gneros Pteroptochos y Scytalopus. Ambos estan centrados en el valle del ro Bo-Bo (regin central de Chile), que puede actuar como barrera para el flujo gentico. Varias alloespecies de habitats boscosos son miembros de superespecies las cuales incluyen una o ms alloespecies que ocupan vegetacin boscosa y no boscosa en otros sitios en Amrica del Sur y del Norte. El nivel de endemismo en Patagonia es alto, alrededor del 41 por ciento de las especies y alloespecies y el 10 por ciento de los gneros tienen su distribucin restringida a los bosques de Nothofagus de la regin. Los niveles de endemismo se analizaron tomando en consideratin 3 diferentes clasificaciones para estas aves, de manera de preever los efectos de cambios en la prctica taxonmica en nuestro evaluacin de endemismo. Los niveles de endemismo en las aves de los bosques patagnicos (habitando un habitat insular) son intermedios entre los niveles bajos que se encuentran en las aves de bosques de Tasmania (una isla continental) y los niveles altos de las aves de los bosques de Nueva Zelandia (un grupo de islas ocenicas). El endemismo en las especies de aves del bosque patagnico se concentra alrededor de especies pertenecientes a familias actualmente distribuidas en Sudamrica o familias que han estado atribudas a elementos faunsticos autctonos muy antiguos ("old autochthonous") (especialmente los Furnariidae y los Rhinocryptidae). Las implicaciones producto de estos hallazgos son discutidas en relatin con la historia del cenozoico de los bosques de la regin patagnica. Los ciclos de avance y retroceso de los glaciares durante el Pleistoceno han jugado un papel importante en el desarrollo de la avifauna actual. El cambio de nichos ha sido un elemento biolgico significativo en la evolucin de varias aves de bosques cuyos antecesores provienen probablemente de la vegetacin de campo abierto ms al norte en los Andes o en las llanuras orientales del sur de Sudamrica. La fauna actual es una mezcla de los vestigios antiguos y de inmigrantes mas o menos recientes de varios estratos.
10.2307/40166827|Following the introduction of West Nile virus (WNV) into the United States, in New York City in 1999, from its historical range in the eastern hemisphere, this mosquito-borne virus caused an intense outbreak in local bird populations and a small epidemic in the associated human population. West Nile virus became established in this focal area, and in 2000 it spread north and south from there during the summer transmission season. The virus continued to expand during the next six years, ultimately affecting all the continental states and most of North America. The strain of WNV introduced was uncharacteristically virulent as a disease agent in native avian species in North America. Corvid species, particularly the American Crow (Corvus brachyrhynchos), were affected the most, and mortality in American Crows and other corvid species was used as a sensitive sentinel system to detect the presence and movement of the virus through a public-health-reporting and laboratory-testing national surveillance program. American Crows were also the earliest indicator of virus activity in most locations and a useful predictor of human cases. The temporal and spatial pattern and rapidity of the continental spread of WNV, as detected by the national surveillance system, matched the semiannual migratory movements of hundreds of millions of North American birds. Subsequent dissemination of the virus to Canada, the Caribbean, Mexico, and Central America fit this method of spread as well. Nationwide bird mortality from WNV infections has been dramatic in North America during the past seven years, with ~48,000 dead birds of >200 species reported as WNV-positive. Experimental studies have elucidated the susceptibility and reservoir competence of a number of bird species. The actual effect of the mortality on bird populations is not known because of the insensitivity of national population-census data available on birds. Few regional declines in bird populations have been detected; however, effects of WNV on local populations of American Crow and Greater Sage-Grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) has been observed in some localities. Geographic distribution of WNV transmission is not continuous across local landscapes, and unexposed birds of susceptible species can serve as a source to repopulate local affected areas when overall populations are high. Bird infections and mortality from WNV peak during August-September, at the height of the mosquito-transmission period, but extend from April to November each year in some states. West Nile virus is able to persist through winter and reappear annually in spring in temperate regions of the continent, and the mechanisms responsible for this recrudescence are unique and largely unknown. Prevention of WNV focuses on mosquito control to suppress virus transmission, particularly during the summer amplification period, but other strategies, such as early targeted mosquito control and possibly wildlife vaccines, would be beneficial. Information from ecological studies and realistic mathematical models are needed for management of this disease. Received 6 June 2005, accepted 30 November 2005. /// Despus de la llegada del virus del Oeste del Nilo (VON) a los Estados Unidos, especficamente a la ciudad e Nueva Cork en 1999, causo un brote intenso en las poblaciones de aves locales y una pequea epidemia en la poblacin humana. El virus del Oeste del Nilo se estableci en esta rea en particular, y en el ao 2000 se extendi hacia el norte y sur durante el verano. El virus contino extendindose por los siguientes seis aos, para finalmente llegar a afectar todos los estados continentales y la mayora de Norte Amrica. La cepa introducida del virus del oeste del Nilo era inusitadamente virulenta como agente infeccioso en aves nativas de Norte Amrica. Las especies mas afectadas fueron los crvidos, particularmente Corvus brachyrhynchos, y la mortalidad en esta especie y otras especies de crvidos fue usada como un sistema sensible de monitoreo para detectar la presencia y movimiento a travs de un programa de vigilancia nacional de cobertura de salud publica y pruebas de laboratorio. Corvus brachyrhynchos fueron los primeros indicadores de la actividad infecciosa del virus en la mayoria de los sitios y fueron tambin el medio por los cuales se predijeron casos en humanos. Los patrones de espacio y tiempo asi como la rapidez de la propagacin continental del VON, de acuerdo a lo registrado por el sistema de vigilancia nacional, coincidi con los movimientos migratorios semianuales de cientos de millones de aves de Norte Amrica. Las propagaciones subsiguientes del virus hacia Canad, el Caribe, Mxico y Centroamrica tambin siguieron el mismo patrn de propagacin. La mortalidad de aves a nivel nacional debido a las infecciones del VON ha sido verdaderamente dramtica en Norteamrica durante los ltimos siete aos, donde aproximadamente 48,000 aves muertas pertenecientes a mas de 200 especies diferentes fueron reportadas VON positivas. Estudios experimentales han aclarado la susceptibilidad y la capacidad de reserva de un nmero de especies de aves. El efecto real de la mortalidad en las poblaciones de aves no se conoce debido a la insensibilidad de informacin disponible sobre censos poblaciones de aves a nivel nacional. Solo algunas disminuciones regionales en las poblaciones de aves han sido detectadas; sin embargo, efectos del VON en poblaciones locales de Corvus brachyrhynchos y de Centrocercus urophasianus han sido observados en algunas localidades. La transmisin de el VON no presenta un patrn de distribucin geogrfico continuo a lo largo de regiones locales, y aves no expuestas de especies susceptibles pueden servir como una fuente para repoblar reas localmente afectadas cuando las poblaciones en general son altas. Las infecciones y mortalidad en aves debido a el VON fueron mas altas durante los meses de Agosto y Septiembre, coincidiendo con la temporada de moscos transmisores, pero se extendi de Abril a Noviembre de cada ao en algunos estados. El virus del Oeste del Nilo es capaz de persistir durante el invierno y reaparecer anualmente en primavera en regiones templadas del continente y los mecanismos responsables de esta extensin son nicos y ampliamente desconocidos. La prevencin de el VON se basa en el control de moscos para evitar la transmisin del virus, especialmente durante el periodo de verano, aunque otras estrategias tales como el control temprano de los moscos y posibles vacunas para especies de fauna silvestres serian de gran beneficio. Las informaciones provenientes de estudios ecolgicos y de modelos matemticos reales son necesarias para el manejo de esta enfermedad.
10.2307/40157534|Austral migrants are bird species that breed in temperate South America during the southern summer and migrate north for the austral winter. Tyrant flycatchers are the dominant group of austral migrants. Detailed examination of geographical and seasonal distribution of flycatchers in Bolivia reveals that 57 species or subspecies show evidence of seasonal movements. Most of these (33 taxa) are present within the country throughout the year, and many of these have overlapping breeding and wintering ranges, as is typical of austral migrants. Of the taxa present in Bolivia during only part of the year, 18 occur exclusively as winter residents, five as summer residents, and one solely as a transient. Bolivian austral migrant tyrannids tend to occur in the lowland, puna, and valle life zones, where they occupy mainly scrub, woodland, and open habitats. Relatively few breed in humid areas, including the Amazonian lowlands and upper tropical and subtropical zones, but 16 species occur mainly or exclusively in winter in Amazonia, where they tend to occupy secondary and edge habitats. Many austral migrant tyrannids show seasonal elevational differences in Bolivia, in addition to latitudinal differences. Pseudocolopteryx acutipennis is the most extreme of the species studied in range of seasonal elevational differences and delayed timing of migration. The easternmost portions of the Bolivian Andes may be important as a migration route for long-distance austral migrants, including tyrannids. /// Las aves migradoras australes son aquellas especies que se reproducen en Amrica del Sur durante el verano y migran hacia el norte cuando llega el invierno. Los Tyrannidae son el grupo dominante de aves migradoras australes. Un estudio detallado de la distribucin estacional y geogrfica de los migradores australes de la familia Tyrannidae de Bolivia revel que 57 especies y subespecies tenan movimientos estacionales. La mayora de stos (33 taxones) estn presentes en el pas durante todo el ao, y muchos presentan superpositin de sus rangos de apareamiento y de invierno, como es tpico de los migradores australes. De los taxones presentes en Bolivia durante slo una parte del ao, 18 residen exclusivamente durante el invierno, cinco son residentes de verano, y uno solo es transitorio. Los tirnidos que son migradores australes tienden a habitar las zonas de vida de reas bajas, puna, y valles, donde ocupan ambientes de matorral, arbustivos, y abiertos. Algunos pocos se aparean en reas hmedas, incluidas los bajos del Amazonas y las zonas tropicales y subtropicales superiores, pero 16 especies existen en Amazonia principalmente o exclusivamente en el invierno, donde tienden a ocupar ambientes secundarios y marginales. Muchos de los tirnidos migradores australes de Bolivia muestran tanto diferencias estacionales de altitud como diferencias latitudinales. Pseudocolopteryx acutipennis es la especie que presenta un mayor rango de diferencias estacionales de altitud y retardo migratorio. Las reas de ms del este de los Andes bolivianos podran ser importantes rutas migratorias para los migradores australes de larga distancia, incluyendo los Tyrannidae.
10.1525/om.2013.78.1.1|The survival probability of birds during the juvenile period, between the end of parental care and adulthood, is highly variable and has a major effect on population dynamics and parental fitness. As such, a large number of studies have attempted to evaluate potential predictors of juvenile survival in birds, especially predictors related to parental care. Lacks hypothesis linking body reserves accumulated from parental care to the survival of naive juveniles has organized much of this research, but various other predictors have also been investigated and received some support. We reviewed the literature in this area and identified a variety of methodological problems that obscure interpretation of the body of results. Most studies adopted statistical techniques that missed the opportunities to (1) evaluate the relative importance of several predictors, (2) control the confounding effect of correlation among predictor variables, and (3) exploit the information content of collinearity by evaluating indirect (via correlation) as well as direct effects of potential predictors on juvenile survival. Ultimately, we concluded that too few reliable studies exist to allow robust evaluations of any hypothesis regarding juvenile survival in birds. We used path analysis to test potential predictors of juvenile survival of 2,631 offspring from seven annual cohorts of a seabird, the Nazca Booby (
10.1525/om.2012.74.1.63|Increasing evidence suggests that anthropogenic noise from urbanization affects animal acoustic communication. We investigated whether the begging calls of nestling Eastern Bluebirds (
10.2307/40168285|Trinidad was last connected to the South American mainland about 11 ,000 years ago. Tobago has been separated for much longer (probably at least 2 million years), but during periods of lowered sea level, the water gap between Tobago and Trinidad may have been reduced to as little as 5 km. The avifauna of the two islands, excluding species that are widely distributed on the South American mainland, can be divided into four distributional categories, Andean, Northern Venezuelan, Caribbean, and Amazonian-Guianan. The Andean element is very closely related to the montane avifauna of the Cordillera de Caripe and Paria peninsula of north-eastern Venezuela, more so than the latter is to the avifauna of the mountains farther west in Venezuela. The northern Venezuelan and Caribbean elements are small and undifferentiated, and their presence in the islands would be expected on the basis of their present distributions in adjacent areas. The Amazonian-Guianan element is more puzzling, as several of its members are geographically very isolated from the mainland populations; the degree of subspecific differentiation in this group is higher than that in the Andean element. The presence of the Amazonian-Guianan element in Trinidad and Tobago indicates a former extension of the Amazonian-Guianan avifauna up the east coast of Venezuela at a time when the sea level was low. In spite of the fact that Tobago has been an island for about 200 times as long as Trinidad, its avifauna is only slightly more differentiated from that of the mainland. The most likely explanation of this apparent anomaly is that Tobago was so close to the mainland during periods of lowered sea level that it was effectively in biotic contact. /// Trinidad ha estado en contacto por ltima vez con el continente sudamericano hace aproximadamente 11 .000 aos. Tobago ha estado separada por mucho ms tiempo (probablemente dos millones de aos por lo menos), pero durante perodos de descenso del nivel de los mares, el estrecho de agua entre Tobago y Trinidad puede haber sido reducido hasta 5 km de ancho. La avifauna de estas dos islas, excluyendo aquellas especies que se encuentran ampliamente distribudas en el continente sudamericano, pueden ser divididas en 4 categoras de distribucin: andinas, venezolanas del norte, caribeas y amaznico-guyanas. La categora andina est muy cercanamente relacionada con la avifauna de montaas de la cordillera de Caripe y la pennsula de Paria en el noreste venezolano y est ms relacionada que en el caso de la avifauna de la pennsula con la avifauna de las montaas venezolanas, ms al oeste. Los elementos del norte de Venezuela y del Caribe son pocos e indiferenciados y su presencia en las islas es lgica en base a su distribucin actual en reas adyacentes. El elemento amaznico-guyana es ms enigmtico, debido a que varios de sus miembros se encuentran muy aislados de las poblaciones continentales, el grado de diferenciacin subespecifica en este grupo es mayor que en el elemento andino. La presencia del elemento amaznico-guyana en Trinidad y Tobago indica que en el pasado hubo una extensin de la fauna amaznico-guyana por la costa este de Venezuela durante el perodo en que el nivel del mar fue ms bajo. A pesar de que Tobago ha sido una isla por un perodo 200 veces mayor que Trinidad, la avifauna de la primera est slo levemente ms diferenciada de la del continente que la de la ltima. La explicatin ms apropiada para esta aparente anomala sera que Tobago ha estado tan cercana al continente durante los perodos en que disminuy el nivel del mar que existi contacto biolgic ("biotic contact") entre ambos.
10.2307/40166899|Swainson's Thrush (Catharus ustulatus) is a long-distance Nearctic-Neotropical migrant that includes two major subspecies groups: the russet-backed group (C. u. ustulatus) of the Pacific Coast and the olive-backed inland group (C. u. swainsoni) (American Ornithologists' Union [AOU] 1998, Evans Mack and Yong 2000). The two groups are most easily distinguished by differences in plumage characteristics, breeding and wintering location, and some vocalizations (Evans Mack and Yong 2000). Historical controversy over the taxonomic treatment of the ustulatus and swainsoni groups suggests that they have previously been considered on the border between subspecies and recently diverged sister species (reviewed in Bond 1963). Several authors emphasize the differences between the groups in breeding habitat and the lack of intergradation in regions where they co-occur (Bent 1949, Phillips 1991). Other authors emphasize their similarities, citing extensive intergradation along the eastern slope of the Sierra Nevada (Grinnell and Miller 1944). Inthe past decade, a number of studies have brought further clarity to the extent of genetic, behavioral, ecological, and acoustic divergence between the ustulatus and swainsoni subspecies groups. Here, I review these recent advances in our knowledge, identify future research questions, and discuss potential implications of divergence on the taxonomic treatment of the two groups according to the AOU's guidelines for naming species (AOU 1998, Johnson et al. 1999). Received 25 July 2006, accepted 9 February 2007. /// Catharus ustulatus es un migrador de larga distancia, Nertico-Neotropical. Incluye dos grupos importantes de subespecies: en la costa del Pacfico, el grupo de "espalda caf-rojizo", C. u. ustulatus, y, en el interior, el grupo de "espalda olivcea", C. u. swainsoni (American Ornithologists' Union 1998, Evans Mack and Yong 2000). Ambos grupos se diferencian fcilmente por las caractersticas del plumaje, sitios de reproduccin y rea de invernada, adems de vocalizaciones (Evans Mack and Yong 2000). La controversia sobre el tratamiento taxonmico de los grupos ustulatus y swainsoni, sugiere que han sido previamente considerados en el lmite entre subespecies y especies hermanas que recientemente divergieron (revisado en Bond 1963). Varios autores enfatizan las diferencias entre los grupos en reas de reproduccin y la falta de intergradacin en las regiones en que coexisten (Bent 1949, Phillips 1991). Otros autores subrayan sus similitudes, aludiendo adems a una extensiva intergradacin en la vertiente este de la Sierra Nevada (Grinnell and Miller 1944). En la dcada pasada, varios estudios clarificaron los niveles de divergencia gentica, de comportamiento, acsticas y ecolgica entre los grupos de subespecie ustulatus y swainsoni. En este estudio, reviso los trabajos anteriores, identifico futuras preguntas de investigacin, y discuto las implicaciones taxonmicas para ambos grupos de acuerdo con las reglas establecidas por la Unin de Ornitlogos Americanos (American Ornithologists' Union 1998, Johnson et al. 1999).
10.2307/40166847|Residing in waters just west of the Americas, in a roughly triangular area from about 50N to 50S and out along the equator, are 26 distinct taxa of storm-petrels (Hydrobatidae), a diversity far greater for this group than in any equivalent stretch of the world ocean. We sought to understand how so many forms can co-occur within this very poorly known family. We describe the ranges, at-sea behavior, and marine habitat affinities of 22 (of the 26) distinct forms included within 5 (of 6) genera and 16 (of 20) species of storm-petrel, all of which occur in that portion of the Pacific Ocean that stretches from the California Current south through the Humboldt Current and out to 170W along the equator. We base our analysis on data collected during 23 cruises conducted in the eastern Pacific during the period 1980-1995. We also provide, for the first time for most forms, information on the annual cycle, as well as abundance estimates based on at-sea censusing during both the breeding and nonbreeding periods. Such information is unknown for almost all populations of storm-petrels, unless their at-sea range has been thoroughly censused. We include the following storm-petrels in our analysis: Leach's (Oceanodroma leucorhoa; represented by a light-rumped form, O. l. leucorhoa, and several dark-rumped forms: O. l. socorroensis, O. l. cheimomnestes, and O. l. chapmani), Band-rumped (O. castro), Ashy (O. homochroa), Least (O. microsoma), Wedge-rumped (O. tethys; represented by two races: O. t. tethys and O. t. kelsalli), Black (O. melania), Markham's (O. markhami), Ringed (O. hornbyi), Wilson's (Oceanites oceanicus; represented by two races: O. o. oceanicus and O. o. chilensis), White-vented (Oceanites gracilis; represented by two races: O. g. gracilis and O. g. galapagoensis), White-bellied (Fregetta grallaria; represented by three races: F. g. grallaria, F. g. segethi, and F. g. titan), Black-bellied (F. tropica), White-throated (Nesofregetta fuliginosa), and Whitefaced (Pelagodroma marina; represented by two races: P. m. dulciae and P. m. maoriana). Information was gathered by strip censuses (400-600 m wide), observations of storm-petrel behavior along cruise tracks, and collection of specimens. Within the entire study area, we made 9,308.1 h of observation and surveyed 111,029 km2 of ocean, including 61,131 km in boreal spring-austral autumn and 49,898 km in boreal autumn-austral spring. Surveys included 768.3 h within 1,000 km of the South American coast; >11,203.7 km of ocean was surveyed, 7,382.1 km in austral autumn and 3,821.6 km in austral spring. Surveys within 500 km of North America included 2,557.2 h over 12,473 km in boreal spring and 3,061.3 km in boreal autumn. We also collected specimens during numerous stops where oceanographic studies were being conducted by other researchers who were also aboard the ship. For the majority of taxa, our surveys covered the entire at-sea range of the taxon. We had complete coverage for the following storm-petrels: Ringed, White-vented, Markham's, O. t. segethi race of White-bellied, both races of Wedge-rumped, Galpagos race of Band-rumped (O. c. bangsi), races of dark-rumped Leach's (O. l. socorroensis, O. l. cheimomnestes, and O. l. chapmani), and Ashy. During boreal autumn, we also had nearly complete coverage for Black and Least storm-petrels, both of which vacate the Gulf of California after the breeding season. We also had nearly complete coverage of the Pacific range of the White-throated Storm-Petrel. Using generalized additive models, population estimation was quite satisfactory for these taxa. Our results indicate that most storm-petrel taxa in the study area have robust populations, this report presenting the first estimates ever for most of the taxa treated. On the other hand, meager populations are indicated for Ashy and White-throated storm-petrels, for two races of White-bellied Storm-petrel (F. g. grallaria and F. g. titan), and for Band-rumped Storm-Petrels in Hawaii. All appear to have populations of <10,000 birds, especially in the case of the newly rediscovered (present study) but apparently nearly extinct population of F. g. titan on Rapa Island. The eastern Pacific is oceanographically heterogeneous at the middle to large scale, and such heterogeneity with strong environmental gradients apparently contributes in a major way to the diversity of storm-petrels in the area. The occurrence patterns of all forms sorted along gradients, such as those for sea-surface temperature and salinity and thermocline depth and strength, all of which separate the major current systems and water masses in the region. Except for the three endemic storm-petrels of the Humboldt Current (White-vented, Ringed, and Markham's storm-petrels), species were further sorted at a smaller scale in accord with a habitat gradient from shelf to slope to pelagic waters. Gradients in ocean productivity correspond with, and are affected by, gradients in the above physical habitat features. Flight and foraging behavior also differentiated species ecologically. Finally, intense competition for nesting space is indicated for many taxa by clear evidence of "floating populations" (i.e., surpluses of breeding adults denied the chance to breed owing to lack of nesting space). In part, these surpluses are the result of intense competition for limited nesting space and are resolved by body size, with a size differential dictating what taxa can breed sympatrically (on the same island). At sea, especially in areas of high ocean productivity where habitats are more finely demarcated than elsewhere, storm-petrels sort by foraging habitat likely derived from trophic competition that was far more intense during glacial periods. At that time, continental shelves were much narrower and, therefore, depth-defined foraging zones were more closely packed than at present or throughout the Holocene. Where species co-occur at sea, the two factors that explain co-occurrence among most storm-petrel species are foraging habitat and body size, with competition for food being resolved by the latter, which affects prey size, as well as by foraging behavior. Overall, the high degree of speciation among storm-petrels of the eastern Pacific is likely a product of relatively sparse nesting islands sprinkled among a confluence of distinct water types separated by intense environmental and productivity gradients. Received 15 June 2005, accepted 19 September 2006. /// Existen 26 taxa diferentes de paios (Hydrobatidae) en un rea casi triangular en los 50 N y 50 S y a lo largo del ecuador en las aguas al oeste de Amrica, lo que representa una diversidad mucho mayor para este grupo en comparacin con cualquier otra zona de los ocanos mundiales. Buscamos entender como es que tantas formas diferentes pueden presentarse dentro de esta familia tan poco conocida. Describimos las variedades, en comportamiento en altamar, y las afinidades de hbitats marinos de 22 (de las 26) formas distintas que estn incluidas dentro de los 5 (de los 6) gneros y 16 (de las 20) especies de paos, los cuales todos se presentan en esa parte del Ocano Pacifico que se angosta desde el sur de la corriente de California hasta la corriente de Humboldt y hasta los 170 oeste a lo largo del Ecuador. Apoyamos nuestro anlisis en datos obtenidos durante 23 cruceros en el este del Pacfico durante el periodo de 1980-1995. Tambin ofrecemos, por primera vez para la mayora de las formas, informacin en el ciclo anual, as como tambin estimaciones de abundancia basadas en censos en altamar durante la temporada de reproduccin y fuera de sta. Tal informacin es desconocida para casi todas las poblaciones de paos, a menos que su rango en altamar haya sido estudiado a fondo. Incluimos las siguientes especies de paos en nuestro anlisis: Oceanodroma leucorhoa (representada por una forma de rabadilla clara, O. l. leucorhoa, y varias formas de rabadilla obscura, O. l. socorroensis, O. l. cheimomnestes, y O. l. chapmani), O. castro, O. homochroa, O. microsoma, O. tethys (representada por dos razas: O. t. tethys y O. t. kelsalli), O. melania, O. markhami, O. hornbyi, Oceanites oceanicus (representada por dos razas: O. o. oceanicus and O. o. chilensis), O. gracilis (representada por dos razas: O. g. gracilis and O. g. galapagoensis), Fregetta grallaria (representada por tres razas: F. g. grallaria, F. g. segethi, and F. g. titan), F. tropica, Nesofregetta fuliginosa, y Pelagodroma marina (representada por dos razas: P. m. dulciae and P. m. maoriana). La informacin se obtuvo mediante censos en franjas (400-600 m de ancho), observaciones del comportamiento de paos a lo largo de la travesa de los cruceros y la colecta de especmenes. En toda el rea de estudio, realizamos 9,308.1 h de observaciones y muestreamos 111,029 km de ocano, incluyendo 61,131 km en primavera boreal-otoo austral y 49,898 km en otoo boreal-primavera austral. Los muestreos incluyeron 768.3 h en 1,000 km a lo largo de la costa de Sudamrica; mas de 11,203.7 km de ocano fue muestreado, 7,382.1 km en otoo austral y 3,821.6 km en primavera austral. Los muestreos dentro de 500 km de Norte Amrica incluyeron 2,557.2 h sobre 12,473 km en primavera boreal y 3,061.3 km en otoo boreal. Tambin colectamos especmenes durante numerosas paradas dnde se realizaron estudios oceanogrficos por otros investigadores quienes tambin estaban a bordo del barco. Para la mayora de las taxa, nuestros muestreos cubrieron el rango total en altamar para el taxn. Tuvimos una cobertura completa para las siguientes especies: O. hornbyi; O. gracilis; O. markhami; O. t. segethi; O. t. tethys and O. t. kelsalli; O. c. bangsi; O. l. socorroensis, O. l. cheimomnestes, O.l. chapmani y O. homochroa. Durante el otoo austral, tambin tuvimos una cobertura casi completa para O. melania y O. microsoma, las cuales desocupan el Golfo de California despus de la temporada de reproduccin. Tambin tuvimos una cobertura casi completa en la distribucin del pacifico de N.fulginosa. La estimacin poblacional usando modelos aditivos generalizados fue bastante satisfactoria para estos taxa. Nuestros resultados indican que la mayora de los taxa de paos en el rea de estudio tienen poblaciones robustas, este reporte presenta las primeras estimaciones para la mayora de los taxa estudiados. Por otro lado, las poblaciones pequeas estn representadas por O. homochroa; N.fulginosa; F. g. grallaria and F. g. titan; y O. castro en Hawai. Todas estas especies parecen tener poblaciones mayores de 10,000 aves, especialmente en el caso de la poblacin recientemente redescubierta (este estudio) pero aparentemente casi extinta de F. g. titan en la isla Rapa. El este del ocano pacifico es, oceanogrficamente, homogneo a una escala mediana a larga, y esta heterogeneidad con gradientes ambientales aparentemente fuertes contribuye grandemente a la diversidad de paos en el rea. Los patrones de presencia de todas las formas a travs de los gradientes, tales como aquellos de temperatura superficial del mar y salinidad y profundidad y fuerza de las termoclinas, las cuales separan la mayora de los sistemas actuales y masas de aguas en la regin. A excepcin de tres especies endmicas de panos de la corriente de Humboldt (O. gracilis, O. hornbyi, and O. markhami), las especies fueron clasificadas a una escala mas pequea de acuerdo con un gradiente de hbitat desde la plataforma a la pendiente hasta las aguas pelgicas. Los gradientes en productividad ocenica corresponden con, y son afectados por, gradientes en las caractersticas fsicas del hbitat. El vuelo y el comportamiento de forrajeo tambin diferenciaron a las especies ecolgicamente. Finalmente, la intensa competencia por espacio para anidar esta indicado para muchos taxa por medio de la clara evidencia de "poblaciones flotantes" (los excesos de adultos en reproduccin que no pudieron aparearse debido ala falta de espacio para anidar). En parte, estos excesos de individuos son el resultado de la intensa competencia por espacio limitado para anidar y se resuelve por el tamao del cuerpo, con una diferencia de tamao que dicta que taxa puede reproducirse simptricamente (en la misma isla). En alta mar, especialmente en reas de alta productividad ocanica dnde hbitats estn mas finamente demarcados que en ninguna otra parte, paos clasificados por sus hbitos de forrajeo probablemente se derivaron de competencias trficas que fueron mucho mas intensas durante los periodos glaciares. Durante esta era las plataformas continentales estaban mas angostas y, por lo tanto, las zonas de forrajeo definidas por profundidad estaban mas estrechas que en el presente o a travs del Holoceno. Donde las especies concurren en altamar, los dos factores que explican esta concurrencia entre la mayora de las especies de paos son hbitat de forrajeo y tamao corporal, siendo la competencia por alimento resuelta por esta ultima, lo que afecta el tamao de la presa as como tambin por el comportamiento de forrajeo. En general, el alto grado de especiacion entre los paos del este del Pacifico es probablemente producto de islas de anidacin relativamente esparcidas entre distintos tipos de aguas separadas por intensos gradientes de productividad y ambientales.
10.2307/40166905|Many species of birds that depend on grassland or savanna habitats have shown substantial overall population declines in North America. To understand the causes of these declines, we examined the habitat requirements of birds in six types of grassland in different regions of the continent. Open habitats were originally maintained by ecological drivers (continual and pervasive ecological processes) such as drought, grazing, and fire in tallgrass prairie, mixed-grass prairie, shortgrass prairie, desert grassland, and longleaf pine savanna. By contrast, grasslands were created by occasional disturbances (e.g., fires or beaver [Castor canadensis] activity) in much of northeastern North America. The relative importance of particular drivers or disturbances differed among regions. Keystone mammal speciesgrazers such as prairie-dogs (Cynomys spp.) and bison (Bison bison) in western prairies, and dam-building beavers in eastern en seis regiones del continente. Habitats abiertos originalmente se mantenian por conductores ecologicos (procesos ecologicos continuos y perdurables), como sequia, pastoreo, y/o fuego como en praderas de pastizal alto, mediano, y corto, pastizal desertico y sabana de pino de hoja larga. En contraste, los pastizales se crearon por disturbios ocasionales (fuego o actividad de castores) en el noreste de Norte America. Especies claves de mamiferos (como perrito de las praderas y bisonte en las praderas del oeste y castores en bosque deciduos del este) jugaron un papel crucial, y frecuentemente no apreciado, manteniendo sistemas de pastizales. Mientras el fuego fue importante en prevenir la invasion de especies lenosas en praderas de pastizal alto y mediano, el pastoreo jugo un papel mas importante en mantener la vegetacion tipica de pastizales cortos y deserticos. Alta presion de pastoreo por perrito de las praderas y bisontes crearon una capa de "cesped pastoreado" que es el habitat preferido por algunas especies de aves de pastizal que estan restringidas a las Grandes Planicies y pastizales deserticos. Muchas especies de aves de pastizal estan vulnerables porque la actividad humana ha destruido sus habitats de anidacion, migracion e invernacion directamente mediante la conversion a areas de cultivo o construccion, o indirectamente mediante la modification de patrones de pastoreo, supresion de fuego, o interfiriendo con otros procesos ecologicos que originalmente mantenian el pastizal abierto. El entendimiento de los procesos ecologicos que mantenian el sistema de pastizal es sumamente importante para esfuerzos de mejoramiento, restauracion, o creation de habitats para aves de pastizal y otros organismos. Consecuentemente, de alta prioridad deberia de ser la preservacion de grandes areas de pastizal natural o seminatural donde estos procesos se podrian estudiar. Sin embargo, muchas especies de pastizal ahora dependen principalmente de habitats artificiales manejados para maximizar la production de ganado, madera, u otros productos. Con un claro entendimiento de los requerimientos de habitat de aves de pastizal y los procesos que originalmente moldearon sus habitats seria posible mantener sus poblaciones en terrenos manejados como ranchos ganaderos, granjas, y plantaciones de pino. El manejo apropiado de tierras privadas sera critico para la preservacion adecuada de areas de habitat de anidacion, migracion e invernacion para aves de pastizal y savana. deciduous forestsplayed a crucial, and frequently unappreciated, role in maintaining many grassland systems. Although fire was important in preventing invasion of woody plants in the tallgrass and moist mixed prairies, grazing played a more important role in maintaining the typical grassland vegetation of shortgrass prairies and desert grasslands. Heavy grazing by prairiedogs or bison created a low "grazing lawn" that is the preferred habitat for many grassland bird species that are restricted to the shortgrass prairie and desert grasslands. Ultimately, many species of grassland birds are vulnerable because people destroyed their breeding, migratory, and wintering habitat, either directly by converting it to farmland and building lots, or indirectly by modifying grazing patterns, suppressing fires, or interfering with other ecological processes that originally sustained open grassland. Understanding the ecological processes that originally maintained grassland systems is critically important for efforts to improve, restore, or create habitat for grassland birds and other grassland organisms. Consequently, preservation of large areas of natural or seminatural grassland, where these processes can be studied and core populations of grassland birds can flourish, should be a high priority. However, some grassland birds now primarily depend on artificial habitats that are managed to maximize production of livestock, timber, or other products. With a sound understanding of the habitat requirements of grassland birds and the processes that originally shaped their habitats, it should be possible to manage populations sustainably on "working land" such as cattle ranches, farms, and pine plantations. Proper management of private land will be critical for preserving adequate breeding, migratory, and winter habitat for grassland and savanna species. Received 12 December 2006, accepted 24 April 2007. /// Muchas especies de aves que dependen de habitats de pastizal o savana han mostrado disminuciones significativas en sus poblaciones en Norte America. Para poder entender las causas de estas disminuciones examinamos los requerimientos de habitat de aves en seis regiones del continente. Habitats abiertos originalmente se mantenan por conductores ecolgicos (procesos ecolgicos continuos y perdurables), como sequa, pastoreo, y/o fuego como en praderas de pastizal alto, mediano, y corto, pastizal desrtico y sabana de pino de hoja larga. En contraste, los pastizales se crearon por disturbios ocasionales (fuego o actividad de castores) en el noreste de Norte America. Especies claves de mamferos (como perrito de las praderas y bisonte en las praderas del oeste y castores en bosque deciduos del este) jugaron un papel crucial, y frecuentemente no apreciado, manteniendo sistemas de pastizales. Mientras el fuego fue importante en prevenir la invasin de especies leosas en praderas de pastizal alto y mediano, el pastoreo jugo un papel mas importante en mantener la vegetacin tpica de pastizales cortos y desrticos. Alta presin de pastoreo por perrito de las praderas y bisontes crearon una capa de "csped pastoreado" que es el habitat preferido por algunas especies de aves de pastizal que estn restringidas a las Grandes Planicies y pastizales desrticos. Muchas especies de aves de pastizal estan vulnerables porque la actividad humana ha destruido sus habitats de anidacion, migracin e invernacion directamente mediante la conversin a reas de cultivo o construccin, o indirectamente mediante la modificatin de patrones de pastoreo, supresin de fuego, o interfiriendo con otros procesos ecolgicos que originalmente mantenan el pastizal abierto. El entendimiento de los procesos ecolgicos que mantenan el sistema de pastizal es sumamente importante para esfuerzos de mejoramiento, restauracin, o creacin de habitats para aves de pastizal y otros organismos. Consecuentemente, de alta prioridad debera de ser la preservacin de grandes reas de pastizal natural o seminatural donde estos procesos se podran estudiar. Sin embargo, muchas especies de pastizal ahora dependen principalmente de habitats artificiales manejados para maximizar la produccin de ganado, madera, u otros productos. Con un claro entendimiento de los requerimientos de habitat de aves de pastizal y los procesos que originalmente moldearon sus habitats seria posible mantener sus poblaciones en terrenos manejados como ranchos ganaderos, granjas, y plantaciones de pino. El manejo apropiado de tierras privadas ser critico para la preservacin adecuada de areas de habitat de anidacion, migracin e invernacion para aves de pastizal y savana.
10.2307/40168290|Based on similarities in vocalizations, behavior, and morphology, we hypothesized that the White-browed Spinetail ("Synallaxis" gularis) is more closely related to species in the genus Cranioleuca than to other species of Synallaxis. We tested this hypothesis by using starch gel electrophoresis and specific staining techniques to compare the protein products from thirty genetic loci of gularis to those of four other species of Synallaxis and five species of Cranioleuca. Two species of Schizoeaca were included in the study as an outgroup. Vocalizations of selected taxa were compared by spectrographic analysis. Both the molecular and vocal evidence support our hypothesis. The mean unbiased genetic distance (D of Nei 1978) from gularis to Cranioleuca species was 0.29, whereas the mean distance to Synallaxis species was 0.52. The supposed outgroup, Schizoeaca, fell so much closer to Cranioleuca than to Synallaxis (mean D of 0.31 vs 0.47) that no cladistic analysis was attempted. We recommend resurrection of the genus Hellmayrea for gularis, and suggest possible relationships with several other synallaxine genera. The protein data also indicate that Schizoeaca helleri and S. harterti, recently lumped with S. fuliginosa, are quite well differentiated at the molecular level (D = 0.13) and probably should be retained as full species. /// Basandonos en similaridades de vocalizaciones, comportamiento y morfologa, proponemos como hiptesis que el trepador de frente blanca ("Synallaxis" gularis) est ms cercanamente relacionado a especies del gnero Cranioleuca que a otras especies del gnero Synallaxis. Para comprobar esta hiptesis utilizamos electroforesis por medio de gelatina de fcula y tcnicas de tinte especficas para comprobar los productos protenicos de 30 "loci" genticos de gularis con aquellos de otras cuatro especies de Synallaxis y cinco especies de Cranioleuca. Se incluyeron dos especies de Schizoeaca como un grupo raz comparativ "outgroup." Se compararon, por medio de anlisis espectrogrfico vocalizaciones de taxas especficas. Los resultados de ambos estudios, molecular y vocal, respaldan nuestra hiptesis. La distancia gentica imparcial promedio ("mean unbiased genetic distance") ( D en Nei 1978) desde gularis hasta especies Cranioleuca fue 0.29, mientras que la distancia promedio hasta especies de Synallaxis fue 0.52. El supuesto "outgroup," Schizoeaca, estuvo mucho ms cercano a Cranioleuca que a Synallaxis (promedio D de 0.31 versus 0.47) por lo que no se intent realizar ningn anlisis cladstico. Recomendamos usar el gnero Hellmayrea para gularis y sugerimos relaciones posibles con varios otros gneros synallaxines. Los datos de protenas tambin indican que Schizoeaca helleri y S. harterti, recientemente englobados con S. fuliginosa, estn suficientemente diferenciados a nivel molecular (D = 0.13) y probablemente deben ser mantenidos como especies independientes.
10.2307/40166897|Subspecies, or geographic races, are diagnosable populations that, at least during the breeding season, are largely allopatric with other subspecies of the same species. In attempts to give objectivity to the subspecies concept, arbitrary rules have been applied for the recognition of subspecies (e.g., the "75% rule," whereby 75% of the individuals should be identifiable to subspecies; there are several other rules). As a case study, I examined the usefulness of the subspecies concept in describing geographic variation of a polytypic American songbird, the Savannah Sparrow (Passerculus sandwichensis). About 21 subspecies of this species have been recognized in the taxonomic literature, but much of the geographic variation is clinal. I argue that there is little value in subdividing a clinal continuum into different subspecies. Rather, the use of subspecies is best restricted to distinctive, and usually geographically isolated, populations. I show that this has been done for only a few of the named subspecies of Savannah Sparrows. Received 31 July 2006, accepted 6 March 2007. /// Las subespecies, o razas geogrficas, son poblaciones generalmente aloptricas (al menos durante la poca de reproductin) y que se pueden diferenciar claramente de otras subespecies de la misma especie. Se han propuesto diferentes reglas para asignar individuos a una determinada subespecie, e.g. "la regla del 75%" (75% de los individuos tienen que ser identificables como subespecie), en un intento de dar objetividad al concepto de subespecie. Como caso de estudio, discuto la utilidad del concepto de subespecie para describir la variacin geogrfica de Passerculus sandwichensis. Se han reconocido cerca de 21 subespecies, pero gran parte de la variacin geogrfica es clinal. Argumento que es de poco valor el subdividir una clina continua en subespecies diferentes. Se debe restringir el uso de subespecies para poblaciones bien diferenciadas y aisladas geogrficamente. Muestro que sto se ha hecho slo para unas pocas de las subespecies de Passerculus sandwichensis.
10.2307/40168326|On the Atlantic coast of South America, populations of Royal Tern, Sterna maxima, show two different calendars of breeding activity. In French Guiana, boreal breeding occurs within the same period as in the northern hemisphere (April-August). In the southern Argentina population, austral reproduction occurs during the southern hemisphere spring and summer (October-March). This latter population migrates northward to winter in Uruguay and (principally) southern Brazil. No data are available on the status of this species between French Guiana (5N) and Rio de Janeiro (23S) on the northern and eastern coasts of Brazil. The plumage status of specimens from Brazil, Uruguay, and Argentina suggests tentatively that only a few puzzling specimens from Brazil are individuals from boreal breeding populations. On the other hand, no banded bird from North America has been recovered from Brazil, Uruguay, or Argentina. Nonetheless, these three populations are mensurally indistinguishable from each other and from those breeding in the southern United States and should, therefore, be treated as S. m. maxima. /// En la costa atlntica de Sudamrica las poblaciones de gaviotn real, Sterna maxima, muestran dos calendarios diferentes de actividad reproductora. En la Guayana Francesa, la reproduccin boreal ocurre en el mismo periodo que en el hemisferio norte (abril-agosto). En la poblacin del sur de Argentina, la reproduccin austral ocurre durante la primavera y el verano del hemisferio sur (octubre-marzo). Esta ultima poblacin migra hacia el norte para pasar el invierno en Uruguay y (principalmente) en el sur de Brasil. No se dispone de informacin sobre la situacin de esta especie entre Guayana Francesa (5N) y Rio de Janeiro (23S) en las costas del norte y este de Brasil. Las condiciones del plumaje de los especmenes de Brasil, Uruguay y Argentina sugieren, tentativamente, que slo unos pocos e intrigantes ejemplares de Brasil son individuos de poblaciones con reproduccin boreal. Por otra parte ni en Brasil, Uruguay o Argentina se nan recuperado gaviotines reales marcados en America del Norte. De cualquier manera, estas tres poblaciones no se pueden diferenciar entre si por sus medidas lineales, ni tampoco con la poblacin que anida en el sur de los Estados Unidos de Norteamica y por lo tanto deben ser tratadas como S. m. maxima.
10.1525/om.2011.70.1.142|Many species in Southeast Asia are hardly known in many aspects (biology, ecology, distribution, plumage characteristics), especially in the southeastern sub-Himalayan Mountains in the border region of Myanmar, China, northeast India, and Tibet. During a September 2005 survey of Naung Mung, Putao District, Kachin State, Northern Myanmar, we obtained specimens of three species evidently in first basic plumage, for which this plumage type was new, hardly known, or significantly different from that seen in specimens in collections or descriptions in the literature. After thorough examination, we identified these specimens as immature members of the following muscicapid species: White-tailed Robin (
10.2307/40166813|Historically, the Shiny Cowbird (Molothrus bonariensis; hereafter "cowbird") was confined to South America, Trinidad, and Tobago. Within the past century, cowbirds have expanded their range into the West Indies, bringing them into contact with avian communities that have never experienced brood parasitism. Because of their small populations, high degree of isolation, and lack of experience with cowbirds, West Indian birds are at greater risk of harm from cowbird contact than mainland birds. Cowbird parasitism was the single most important factor in the reduced reproductive output of the endangered Yellow-shouldered Blackbird (Agelaius xanthomus; hereafter "blackbird"), a Puerto Rican endemic. Roost counts estimated that the blackbird population declined in southwestern Puerto Rico from 1,663 individuals (1974-1975) to 266 (1981-1982). Cowbird trapping in upland areas near blackbird nesting areas in mangroves and cowbird feeding areas has proved successful in managing cowbirds and increasing blackbird populations. Removal of cowbird eggs and nestlings from artificial nesting structures has resulted in fewer parasitized blackbird nests. As a result of those measures, cowbird parasitism of blackbirds has fallen from 95% (1973-1983) to <3% (2000-2003) and, judging from roost counts in 2004, the blackbird population has increased to 800 individuals in southwestern Puerto Rico. Cowbird management programs have excellent potential to reduce the adverse effects of cowbird parasitism; however, trapping within nesting areas is not recommended, because it may increase the probability of capturing and stressing breeding blackbirds. /// Histricamente, Molothrus bonariensis estaba confinado a Sudamrica, Trinidad, y Tobago. A lo largo del siglo pasado, Molothrus bonariensis ha expandido su rea a las Indias Orientales, lo que los ha puesto en contacto con comunidades de aves que nunca antes haban experimentado el parasitismo de cra. Debido a su pequeo tamao poblacional, alto grado de aislamiento, y falta de experiencia previa con Molothrus, las aves de las Indias Orientales estn en un mayor riesgo de dao causado por los tordos que las especies continentales. El parasitismo por el Molothrus bonariensis fue el nico y ms importante factor responsable de la reduccin del xito reproductivo de Agelaius xanthomus, una especie en peligro endmica de Puerto Rico. Mediante conteos en dormideros se estim que la poblacin Agelaius xanthomus disminuy en el sudeste de Puerto Rico de 1,663 individuos (1974-1975) a 266 (1981-1982). El trampeo Molothrus bonariensis en zonas altas cercanas a las reas de nidificacin de Agelais xanthomus, zonas de manglares y reas de alimentatin de M. bonariensis demostr ser exitoso en manejar a los M. bonariensis e incrementar las poblaciones de A. xanthomus. La remocin de huevos y pichones de M. bonariensis de las estructuras de nidificacin artificiales se tradujo en un menor nmero de nidos de A. xanthomus parasitados. Como consecuencia de dichas medidas, el parasitismo del M. bonariensis sobre la A. xanthomus cay del 95% (1973-1974) a <3% en (2000-2003) y, basndonos en los conteos en dormideros durante 2004, la poblacin de A. xanthomus en el sudeste de Puerto Rico, habra aumentado a 800 individuos. Los programas de manejo del M. bonariensis tienen un excelente potencial de reducir los efectos adversos del parasitismo. Sin embargo, el trampeo dentro de las reas de nidificacin debera evitarse ya que aumenta la probabilidad de capturar y provocar estrs en los A. xanthomus nidificantes.
10.1525/om.2011.70.1.153|Species distribution and species diversity pattern have vexed ornithologists in Southeast Asia and the Himalayas. The species diversity debate continues, because the baseline data for such analysis are still very incomplete, especially in some parts of Asia. We conclude, from currently available data sets such as museum specimens, that the ornithological affinities of northern Kachin State are rather with the eastern sub-Himalayas and western Yunnan, and we cannot (yet) confirm a spatially narrow turnover zone between South and Southeast Asia. Nevertheless, the local endemism of bird species (i.e., sub-Himalayan slopes of northern Kachin State) is high and there is a strongly marked elevational turnover from south to north. Recent surveys in Assam, Arunachal Pradesh (northeast India), Yunnan (southwest China), and Kachin State (northern Myanmar) have revealed taxa not previously known, including three from Arunachal Pradesh and Kachin State since 1997. The descriptions are based on museum work in combination with genetic analysis and extensive field studies (e.g.,
10.2307/40166900|We investigated the distribution of interior subspecies of Sage Sparrows (Amphispiza belli nevadensis and A. b. canescens) in Owens Valley, eastern California. Our primary goals were to establish the geographic limits of subspecies' nesting ranges in this region, to examine whether the two forms are in contact, and to elucidate their evolutionary history. Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) analysis and discriminant-function classification of size pointed to a narrow contact zone near Bishop, Inyo County, with evidence for limited sympatry and possible intergradation or hybridization. Estimates of mtDNA gene flow are low. The contact zone occurs toward the northern end of a bioclimatic gradient that spans the valley from the Great Basin in the north (cold and wet) to the Mojave Desert in the south (hot and dry). Ecological and bioclimatic data show slightly different patterns but generally suggest a transition that coincides with the distributional limits of the two forms. According to population genetic measures, both subspecies have expanded rapidly into Owens Valley. Because A. b. nevadensis and A. b. canescens occupy distinctive vegetation-climate associations, local adaptation to conditions in this region determines the extent to which the two forms can coexist at the margins of their respective ranges. Received 30 July 2006, accepted 9 February 2007. /// En este trabajo, mostramos los resultados de una intensa investigacin sobre la distribucin de las subespecie de interior del Zacatonero de artemisa (Amphispiza belli nevadensis and A. b. canescens) en el valle de Owens, al este de California. El objetivo principal de nuestro estudio fue establecer los lmites geogrficos de los rangos de nidificacin de las subespecies en la regin, con el fin de determinar si ambas formas se encuentran en contacto, y as elucidar su historia evolutiva. Los anlisis de ADN mitocondrial y una funcin discriminante para el tamao de las aves revelaron una delgada zona de contacto cercana a Bishop, condado de Inyo, con evidencia de simpatra limitada y posible intergradacin o hibridacin. Las estimaciones del flujo gnico para el mtDNA dan valores bajos. La zona de contacto ocurre en el lmite norte del gradiente bioclimtico que cubre el valle desde la gran cuenca hidrogrfica en el norte (fro/ hmedo) hasta el desierto de Mojave en el sur (caluroso/seco). Los datos ecolgicos y bioclimticos muestran patrones levemente distintos pero, por lo general, sugieren una transicin que coincide con los lmites de distribucin de las dos formas. De acuerdo con los parmetros poblacionales estudiados, las dos subespecies se han extendido rpidamente en el valle de Owens. Dado que A. b. nevadensis y A. b. canescens ocupan asociaciones diferentes de vegetacin-clima, las adaptaciones locales a las condiciones de cada regin determinan hasta qu punto las dos formas pueden coexistir en los mrgenes de sus rangos respectivos.
10.2307/40157562|The Yellow-browed Toucanet Aulacorhynchus huallagae, previously known only from one specimen, was rediscovered at the type locality in 1979. Here the species occupies a narrow elevational band (2,100-2,350 m), and there is little elevational overlap with sympatric species of toucan. The species probably occurs both north and south of the type locality, but nonetheless has a very restricted distribution; we are not aware of any immediate threat, however, to the forests in which A. huallagae is found. Aulacorhynchus huallagae forms a superspecies with two taxa, A. haematopygus and A. coeruleicinctus, found to the north and south, respectively. /// El Toucancito de Ceja Amarilla (Aulacorhynchus huallagae), que anteriormente solo se conoca de un espcimen, fue redescubierto en la localidad del tipo en 1979. Aqu la especie habita una zona altitudinal muy estrecha (2,100-2,300 m), y hay muy poco traslapo altitudinal con especies simptricas de toucanes. La especie probablemente se encuentra al norte y al sur de la localidad tipo, sin embargo tiene una distribucin muy restringida. No obstante, no estamos enterados si hay alguna amenaza inmediata a los bosques donde A. huallagae se encuentra. Aulacorhynchus huallagae forma una superespecie con dos especies, A. haematopygus y A. coeruleicinctus, que se encuentran al norte y al sur, respectivamente.
10.1525/om.2010.67.1.114|Species and subspecies delineations were traditionally defined by morphological and behavioral traits, as well as by plumage characteristics. Molecular genetic data have more recently been used to assess these classifications and, in many cases, to redefine them. The recent practice of utilizing molecular genetic data to examine taxonomic questions has led some to suggest that molecular genetic methods are more appropriate than traditional methods for addressing taxonomic uncertainty and management units. We compared the North American Tetraoninaewhich have been defined using plumage, morphology, and behaviorand considered the effects of redefinition using only neutral molecular genetic data (mitochondrial control region and cytochrome oxidase subunit 1). Using the criterion of reciprocal monophyly, we failed to recognize the five species whose mating system is highly polygynous, with males displaying on leks. In lek-breeding species, sexual selection can act to influence morphological and behavioral traits at a rate much faster than can be tracked genetically. Thus, we suggest that at least for lek-breeding species, it is important to recognize the possibility that morphological and behavioral changes may occur at an accelerated rate compared with the processes that led to reciprocal monophyly of putatively neutral genetic markers. Therefore, it is particularly important to consider the possible disconnect between such lines of evidence when making taxonomic revisions and definitions of management units.
10.1525/om.2011.70.1.1|Any analysis of species distributions in Southeast Asia must confront several difficulties, including weak baseline data, a coarse sampling grid, and confused taxonomy. A critical portion of this region, namely the southeastern Himalayas and associated sub-Himalayan areas, are high in species richness and yet are poorly sampled or understood from an ornithogeographic and conservation perspective. Recent surveys in Assam, Arunachal Pradesh (northeast India), Yunnan (southwest China), and Kachin State (northern Myanmar) have revealed new taxa, confirming the hypothesis that the mountain range is of global conservation importance. In this monograph, we summarize current knowledge, historical and recent collection activities, and taxonomic, systematic, and biogeographic revisions and consider the need for additional work and where in the region that work should be focused.
10.2307/40157525|Two morphologically similar antbirds, Cercomacra tyrannina and C. parkeri sp. nov., are sympatric in the foothills of the Cordillera Occidental and Cordillera Central of the Colombian Andes. The two taxa appear to replace each other elevationally: C. tyrannina--sea level to ca. 730 m; C. parkeri--ca. 1,130 to 1,830 m. Colombian populations of C. tyrannina exhibit significant clines in plumage color and size that are consistent with the predictions of Gloger's and Bergmann's ecogeographic rules. /// Dos hormigueros morfolgicamente similares, Cercomacra tyrannina y C. parkeri sp. nov. son sympatrica en las lomas de las Cordilleras Occidentales y Central de las Andes Colombianas. Las dos taxa probablemente se reemplazan a diferentes niveles: C. tyrannina--nivel de mar ca 730 m; C. parkeri--ca. 1,130 to 1,830 m. La poblacin de C. tyrannina Colombiana demuestra significante clines en el color de plumaje y tamao que es consistente con las reglas ecogeogrficas de Gloger y Bergmann.
10.2307/40168288|From 14 June to 5 July 1979 we studied the avifauna at two localities in Depto. Tumbes, Peru, near the Ecuadorean border. We obtained specimens of six species and 15 subspecies new for Peru, and collected specimens and natural history information on such poorly known taxa as Ortalis erythroptera, Synallaxis tithys, Automolus erythrocephalus, and Thamnophilus zarumae. /// Entre el 14 de junio y el 5 de julio de 1979 estudiamos la avifauna de dos localidades cercanas a la frontera con Ecuador en el Departamento de Tumbes, Per. Obtuvimos espcimenes de seis especies y 15 subespecies nuevas para el Per y coleccionamos espcimenes e informatin sobre la historia natural de taxa poco conocida como: Ortalis erythroptera, Synallaxis tithys, Automolus erythrocephalus y Thamnophilus zarumae.
10.2307/40168273|Field and museum work reveal that the Thryothorus euophrys complex includes two species, one of which is described here, and that there is an additional subspecies of T. euophrys, also described in this paper. Both new forms are from Peru. /// Trabajos llevados a cabo en el campo y en museos muestran que el complejo taxonmico de Thryothorus euophrys incluye dos especies, una de las cuales es descrita en el presente trabajo, y que existe una subespecie adicional de T. euophrys, la cual tambin se describe. Estas dos nuevas formas taxonmicas se encuentran en Per.
10.1525/om.2013.77.1.1|Historically, comparative study of the skeleton of hummingbirds has focused on systematics, emphasizing differences between hummingbirds and other birds and only rarely addressing differences within Trochilidae. This monograph covers both approaches, and comparisons within Trochilidae are framed within recently published, plausible phylogenetic hypotheses. The data are derived mainly from museum collections of anatomical specimens, covering ~256 species of 102 genera of hummingbirds, and 11 genera of other Apodiformes. Although the syringeal skeleton is included, emphasis is on the axial and appendicular skeletons.
10.2307/40168298|Relationships between foraging behavior and external measurements of the bill, wings, tarsus, and tail are analyzed for 94 representative species of tyrant flycatchers (one quarter of the family). Results are presented in three parts: (1) Allometric relationships are summarized for external measurements, followed by general correlations between measurements (corrected for body size) and foraging mode. Upward-strikers have wide bills, short wings, long tarsi, and reduced tails; perch-gleaners and ground-foragers both have narrow bills, and with the latter also showing substantially longer legs; aerial-hawkers have triangular bills, extremely long wings (as do long-distance migrants), and short legs. Generalists, using many prey capture techniques, have intermediate structural features. (2) Using three sample analyses I show that relative sizes of certain characters vary continuously among species along a quantitative scale of foraging behavior. The morphology-behavior functions suggest adaptive interpretations for much of the observed structural variation. Evolutionary change in structure appears to accompany fine-scale changes along behavioral spectra. Extreme structural peculiarity characterizes the most behaviorally specialized forms, and even could limit evolutionary flexibility at the end-points. These relationships support the notion that evolution proceeds most easily from generalized form and behavior, through intermediate conditions, to the most extreme behavioral and morphological specializations. (3) I speculate on the directions along which increasingly specialized descendants evolved from generalized ancestors in the Tyrannidae, suggesting that these pathways are still visible in present-day forms. The great diversity within the Tyrannidae results, in part, from the unusually competitorfree environment within which the nonoscine lineages may have evolved. This environment allowed various flycatcher species to stop along certain routes toward specialization, remaining or even proliferating at stable intermediate points while certain others continued to specialize further. In this way, today's family Tyrannidae may illustrate pathways of morphological and behavioral specialization long since obliterated in most other modern bird families. /// Se analiza la relacin entre el comportamiento de alimentacin y medidas externas del pico, alas, tarso y cola para 94 especies representativas de atrapa moscas tirano (un cuarto de la familia). Los resultados se presentan en tres partes: (1) Se resumen las relaciones alomtricas para medidas externas, seguido por una correlacin entre medidas (corregidas para el tamao del cuerpo) y el modelo empleado para alimentarse. Las especies que picotean hacia arriba ("upward-strikers") tienen picos anchos, alas cortas, tarsos largos y cola reducida; aquellas aves que picotean posadas en ramas ("perch-gleaners") as como las que se alimentan en el suelo ("ground-foragers") tienen picos angostos y estas ltimas aves muestran patas singularmente largas; las que cazan en el aire ("aerial-hawkers") tienen picos triangulares, alas extremadamente largas (tal como las que migran grandes distancias) y patas cortas. Aquellas aves que usan tcnicas diferentes para la captura de sus presas ("generalists") presentan componentes intermedios. (2) Utilizo anlisis de tres ejemplos para mostrar que los tamaos relativos de ciertos caracteres varan continuamente entre especies a lo largo de una escala cuantitativa de comportamiento de forraje. Las funciones de comportamiento-morfologa sugieren interpretaciones adaptativas para la mayora de las variaciones estructurales observadas. Los cambios evolucionarios en la estructura, pareceran acompaar cambios muy pequeos en los espectros de comportamiento. La presencia de peculiaridades estructurales externa caracteriza a las formas con comportamientos ms especializados e inclusive podran limitar la flexibilidad evolucionaria en los puntos de los espectros. Estas relaciones soportan la idea de que evolutin avanza ms fcilmente desde formas y comportamientos generalizados a travs de las condiciones intermedias hacia las especializaciones ms extremas de comportamiento y morfologa. (3) Especulo sobre las direcciones a lo largo de las cuales evolucionaron los descendientes mayormente especializados de ancestros generalizados en los Tyrannidae, sugiriendo que esas direcciones an son visibles en formas de la actualidad. La gran diversidad en Tyrannidae resulta en parte por la inusual falta de competidores en el medio en el cual es posible que hayan evolucionado los linajes de no-oscines. Este medio permiti que varias especies de atrapa moscas se detuvieran a lo largo de determinadas rutas de especializacin permaneciendo o inclusive proliferando en puntos intermedios estables, mientras que otras continuaron especializandose an ms. De esta manera, la familia actual de Tyrannidae puede ilustar rutas de especializacin de comportamiento y morfologa que hace mucho han sido obliteradas en otras familias de aves actuates.
10.2307/40166901|Comparing phylogeographic histories of codistributed species can reveal how common historical events and processes have influenced lineage diversification across species. Within the California Floristic Province, the phylogeographies of a diversity of plants and animals have been studied; however, only a few bird species have been examined in this region. We compared phylogeographic histories of three species of birds--Wrentit (Chamaea fasciata), California Thrasher (Toxostoma redivivum), and White-headed Woodpecker (Picoides albolarvatus)--to each other as well as to the phylogeographic histories of other California taxa. Qualitatively comparing phylogeographies of these three species reveals some similarities and some differences. All three species exhibit similar levels of sequence divergence, experienced recent range expansions, and show a division between southern and northern populations in the vicinity of the Transverse Ranges. However, nested-clade phylogeographic analysis suggests that different processes have influenced current patterns of genetic structure in these three species. Other taxa within California show a similar division between northern and southern populations; however, our species did not show concordant geographic breaks elsewhere that have been identified for other species. Using a statistical assessment of concordance, our data showed more agreement across a broader regional scale than among closely spaced populations. Phylogeographic trees of the three species showing relationships among counties were not statistically congruent with each other or with a tree representing other California taxa. However, at the broader level of geomorphic province, the Wrentit and White-headed Woodpecker showed complete concordance. Received 30 June 2006, accepted 5 February 2007. /// La comparacin de la historia filogeogrfica de las especies con distribuciones similares, puede revelar cmo los eventos histricos y los procesos comunes que han experimentado estas especies han influenciado la diversificacin de sus linajes. Dentro de la provincia florstica de California, se ha estudiado la filogeografia de diversas plantas y animates; sin embargo, slo se han estudiado unas pocas especies de aves. En este estudio, comparamos la historia filogeogrfica de tres especies de aves--Chamaea fasciata, Toxostoma redivivum y Picoides albolarvatus; adems, comparamos la historia filogeogrfica de otros taxones califomianos. Las comparaciones cualitativas de la filogeogrfia entre las tres especies antes mencionadas, revelan algunas diferencias y similitudes. Las tres especies muestran niveles similares de divergencia gentica, presentando, adems, expansiones recientes en sus rangos de distribucin y mostrando una divisin entre las poblaciones del norte y del sur en las cercanas de los rangos transversales. Sin embargo, los anlisis filogeogrficos de clados encajados (NCA) sugieren que los patrones de estructura gentica en estas tres especies han sido determinados por procesos diferentes. Otros taxones dentro de California muestran una divisin similar entre las poblaciones del norte y del sur; sin embargo, nuestras especies no muestran una interrupcin en otras reas geogrficas, las que han sido identificadas en especies con una misma distribucin. Utilizando un anlisis estadstico de correspondencia nuestras aves muestran mayor concordancia a travs de una amplia escala regional que entre poblaciones que esten cercanamente espaciadas. Los rboles filogeogrficos de las tres especies que muestran las relaciones entre condados no son estadsticamente congruentes entre ellos, como tampoco lo son con los rboles de otros taxones de California. Sin embargo, al nivel ms amplio de la provincia geomrfica, existe una total congruencia entre Chamaea fasciata y Picoides albolarvatus.
10.2307/40168303|Data on egg color, nest type, and nest location for bird species nesting at the Amazonian localities of Belem and Manaus, Brazil were examined for possible adaptations against predation and other negative environmental factors. White egg color and spotting was not related to sunlight, except in the negative sense that concealed eggs in any habitat lacked pigments. White eggs, often with spots, were also associated with thin nests in which eggs were visible from below; such eggs may resemble transparent holes in the canopy, in the fashion of transparent wings of certain understory butterflies. Blue eggs normally were found in thick, dark cup nests in dappled sunlight, apparently imitating spots of light on dark foliage in the manner of black-and-blue butterflies of similar zones. Buff (pink) color was most common among eggs placed against dull substrates, and when combined with spotting, resembles the "tiger" pattern known for certain butterflies of dull substrates. Oven-shaped nests were always thick, but evidently not for protection against weather; pouch nests, open above and to the weather, were also thick. More likely, such large nests had to be thick to discourage predator entry or detection of contents. Pouch nests were not necessary on thin supports (although a deep nest may secondarily keep eggs and young from rolling out); cup nests also occurred in such locations. Pale nests were more common on pale supports and in open areas, dark nests on dark supports and in dark locations, but hypotheses of heat gain or loss in relation to nest color were not supported. Small nests tended to be concealed from above, but none were oven-shaped; protection was against predators, not against sun or rain. Cavity nests were rare within 1 m of the ground, another fact explicable only if nests provide protection against predators rather than against sun or rain. A number of environmental factors, such as human interference (especially with ground or cavity nests) or low vegetation (grass, palms, second growth) limited nest sites. Limitation of nest sites may be as important as limitations of foraging niches in areas with limited foliage height diversity. No postulated anti-weather function for nests was demonstrated; my data supported only anti-predator functions as reasons why birds build nests or have pigmented (rather than white) eggs. /// Se examin informatin respecto al color de los huevos, tipo de nido y ubicacin de los mismos, para especies de aves que anidan en Beln y Manaos, en la regin amaznica de Brasil, para identificar posibles adaptaciones en contra de la depredacion y otros factores ambientales negativos. Ni los huevos de color bianco y ni los moteados, estuvieron relacionados con luz solar, excepto en el sentido negati vo que los ocultaba en cualquier ambiente carente de pigmentacin. Los huevos blancos, generalmente moteados, tambin estuvieron asociados a nidos muy delgados en los que los huevos podan ser vistos desde abajo, esos huevos pueden asemejarse a agujeros transparentes en una bveda o techo, algo similar a las alas transparentes de ciertas mariposas del nivel bajo del bosque. Los huevos azules se encontraron normalemente en nidos gruesos oscuros con forma de copa salpicados de luz solar aparentemente imitando manchas de luz en follaje oscuro de la misma manera que las mariposas azul y negro de areas similares. El color ante (rosado) fue ms comn entre los huevos puestos contra substratos poco coloridos y cuando estuvieron combinados con manchas se asemejaron al modelo "tigre," conocido en ciertas mariposas de substratos apagados. Los nidos en forma de homo, siempre fueron gruesos, pero evidentemente no para protectin climtica, nidos en forma de bolsa, abiertos en su extremo superior y a los efectos climticos, tambin fueron gruesos. Es ms probable que esos nidos grandes sean gruesos para desalentar el ingreso de los depredadores o que el contenido sea detectado. Los nidos en forma de bolsa no estuvieron necesariamente fijados a elementos delgados (aunque un nido profundo puede secundariamente prevenir que los huevos y los polluelos se cagan del nido); tambin se encontraron en esa posicion nidos en forma de copa. Nidos palidos fueron ms comunes en soportes plidos y en reas abiertas, nidos oscuros en soportes oscuros y reas oscuras, pero estas hiptesis de ganancia o prdida de temperatura en su relacin con el color del nido no fueron soportadas. Los nidos pequeos suelen estar ocultos por arriba pero ninguno tuvo forma de homo, la proteccin fue contra los depredadores, pero no contra el sol o la lluvia. Fue raro encontrar nidos en huecos en el primer metro desde el nivel del suelo, otro factor slo explicable si los nidos proveen proteccin contra depredadores, no contra el sol o la lluvia. Una serie de factores ambientales, tales como interferencia humana (especialmente con nidos en el suelo o en cavidades) o vegetacin baja (pastos, palmeras, vegetacin secundaria) limita los sitios para anidar. El disponer de limitados sitios de anidacin puede ser tan importante como la Iimitacin de nichos de forraje enreas con limitada diversidad de follaje de altura. No se demostr ningn postulado anti-clima en la funcin de los nidos; mis datos slo indican que las aves construyen los nidos o ponen huevos pigmentados (en lugar de blancos) como funcion anti-depredadora.
10.2307/40166831|We used screening techniques based on polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to explore the avian hematozoan parasites (Plasmodium spp. and Haemoproteus spp.) of two previously uninvestigated regions of continental South America. Comparisons of tropical-zone Guyana and temperate-zone Uruguay revealed that overall prevalence of Plasmodium and Haemoproteus species detected in a diverse sampling of potential hosts was significantly higher in Guyana. The difference in prevalence between the two geographic zones appears to be attributable to ecological differences rather than taxonomic sampling artifacts. Diversity of hematozoan haplotypes was also higher in Guyana. We found no relationship between hema-tozoan haplotype and host family sampled within or between regions. We found very few Plasmodium and no Haemoproteus haplotypes shared between the two regions, and evidence of geographic structuring of hematozoan haplotypes between the two regions. We suggest that a lack of hematozoan haplotype transmission between the two regions may be attributable to the migratory patterns of each region's avian hosts. Received 11 April 2005, accepted 21 November 2005. /// Usamos tcnicas de investigacin basadas en reaccin en cadena de polmeros (RCP) para explorar hemoparsitos avcolas (Plasmodium spp. y Haemoproteus spp.) en dos regiones no investigadas de Sudamrica. Las comparaciones de la zona tropical de Guyana y de la zona templada de Uruguay revelaron que la frecuencia general de especies de Plasmodium y Haemoproteus encontrados en una muestra diversa de hospederos potenciales fue significativamente ms alta en Guyana. La diferencia en frecuencia entre las dos zonas geogrficas aparentemente se debe a diferencias ecolgicas que debido al muestreo taxonmico. La diversidad de hematozoos haplotpicos fue tambin ms alta en Guyana. No encontramos una relacin entre hematozoos haplotpicos y familias de hospederos muestreados dentro o entre las regiones. Encontramos solo algunos cuantos haplotipos de Plasmodium en comn entre las dos regiones, pero no se encontraron haplotipos de Haemoproteus, ni evidencia de una estructuracin geogrfica de haplotipos de hematozoos entre las dos regiones. Por lo que sugerimos que la ausencia de transmisin de haplotipos de hematozoos entre las dos regiones puede ser atribuida a los patrones de emigracin, para cada regin, de las aves hospederas.
10.2307/40168281|Geographic variation in several common species of Amazon birds is studied through computer analyses and hand-contouring of mensural and color characters. Contour maps of individual characters illustrate regional gradients in character variation within Amazonia. These patterns permit meaningful application of the subspecies concept. Broad rivers are barriers to dispersal for some forest interior species, introducing steps or breaks in regional gradients of geographically variable characters. The extent of these breaks varies considerably between species, and they disappear entirely in the headwater regions of the Amazon tributaries. The strongflying, canopy and forest-edge species show gentle clinal variation in Amazonia, with gradients not broken by major rivers. Pitangus sulphuratus shows symmetrical, parallel clines of increasing body size both north and south of the Amazon basin. In Myrmoborus myotherinus, character variation is pronounced, though quite different between males and females in central Amazonia. Broad regions of uniform character expression, connected by narrow transition zones, correspond to areas of species endemism, whose origins may lie in the historical climatic and vegetational fluctuations in the Amazon basin. /// Se estudi la variacin geogrfica de varias especies de aves amaznicas comunes por medio de anlisis con computadora y perfiles hechos a mano de caractersticas de colores y medidas. Mapas de perfiles "contour" de variaciones para cada caracterstica individual presentan gradientes regionales para las variaciones de carcteres ("character variation") en la regin amaznica. Estos modelos permiten aplicaciones significativas del concepto de subespecie. Los ros anchos representan barreras de dispersin para algunas especies que viven en pleno bosque, introduciendo pasos o brechas en los gradientes regionales de los carcteres de variacin geogrfica. La extensin de estas brechas vara considerablemente entre especies y desaparecen completamente en la zona de las nacientes de los ros tributarios del Amazonas. Especies que tienen mucha resistencia volando, viven en el nivel tope del bosque y en los bordes de los bosques presentan una suave varicin clinal en la regin amaznica con gradientes que no son interrumpidos por grandes ros. Pitangus sulphuratus presenta variaciones a lo largo de su rango de distribucin ("clines"), aumentando las medidas de su cuerpo en forma simtrica y paralela tanto al norte como al sur de la cuenca amaznica. En Myrmoborus myotherinus, la variacin de carcteres es pronunciada aunque levemente diferente entre machos y hembras en la regin amaznica central. Amplias regiones con expresin de carcteres uniforme, conectadas por estrechas franjas de transicin, corresponden a reas de endemismo de especies cuyos orgenes pueden estar relacionado a fluctuaciones histricas de clima y vegetacin en la cuenca amaznica.
10.2307/40157545|To reassess taxonomic relationships within Dendrocolaptes, I examined plumage variation in the five members of the genus. Following a descriptive analysis of the species, I conducted cladistic and phenetic analyses of a suite of 21 plumage characters along with bill color. Results suggest that approximately one-fifth of the presently recognized subspecies are invalid. Many taxa were based on inadequate sampling at a geographic scale too coarse to expose subtle variation of a clinal nature. A cladistic analysis of plumage characters did not support the monophyly of Dendrocolaptes, although the barred species-group was monophyletic. Within the barred species group, trans-Andean and cis-Andean representatives each formed monophyletic subgroups, but D. concolor was placed within the Amazonian D. certhia. Dendrocolaptes hoffmannsi was placed as the sister-group to the barred taxa in contrast to the conclusions of some previous workers. The relationships predicted by phenetic techniques paralleled the cladistic analysis except that the Nech and Central American populations of D. certhia were separated, as were D. concolor and the Amazonian D. certhia. The inability of the quantitative techniques to support monophyly of Dendrocolaptes likely resulted from the fact that the streaked Dendrocolaptes exhibit the ancestral character state, and therefore differ little from the outgroups based on plumage patterns. Although subspecies distributions within Dendrocolaptes conform to areas of endemism proposed by Haffer (1967, 1985) and Cracraft (1985), relationships among most taxa were too weakly defined to make strong predictions regarding the events responsible for isolating populations. This inability to infer relationships was likely due, in large part, to convergence among taxa occurring sympatrically and in regions within similar climatic conditions. /// Para re-evaluar los vinculos taxonmcos dentro del gnero Dendrocolaptes, se examin las variaciones en el plumaje de cinco miembros del gnero. En base a un anlisis descriptivo de las especies se realizaron anlisis cladsticos y fenticos de un grupo de 21 caracteres del plumaje, adems del color del pico. Los resultados sugieren que aproximadamente un quinto de las subespecies actualmente reconocidas no son vlidas. Muchos grupos taxonmicos se basaron en muestras inadecuadas recolectadas en una escala geogrfica muy gruesa como para revelar sutiles variaciones graduales. Un anlisis cladstico de los caracteres del plumaje, no respald la condicin monofiltica del gnero Dendrocolaptes, aunque el grupo de especies con bandas era monofiltico. Dentro del grupo de especies con bandas, los representantes transandinos y cisandinos forman sub-grupos monofilticos, respectivamente, pero se coloc a D. concolor con la especie amaznica D. certhia. Dendrocolaptes hoffmannsi se coloc como un grupo hermano al de las especies con bandas, contrario a las conclusiones de algunos trabajos previos. Los vinculos pronosticados por las tcnicas fenticas son paralelos a los obtenidos por el anlisis cladstico, excepto que las poblaciones Nechi y centroamericanas de D. certhia fueron separadas, al igual que D. concolor y la especie amaznica de D. certhia. La incapacidad de las tcnicas cuantitativas de apoyar la condicin monofiltica del gnero Dendrocolaptes, probablemente result del hecho que los Dendrocolaptes con rayas exhiben caracteres del estado ancestral y, por consiguiente, difieren poco de los grupos extremos en base a los patrones de plumaje. Aunque la distribucin de subespecies dentro del gnero Dendrocolaptes conforma a las reas de endemismo propuestas por Haffer (1967, 1985) y Cracraft (1985), los vinculos entre la mayora de los grupos taxonmicos fueron muy dbilmente definidos como para hacer pronsticos firmes respecto a los acontecimientos responsables por el aislamiento de las poblaciones. Esta incapacidad de diferenciar vinculos se debe probablemente, en gran parte, a la convergencia entre los grupos taxonmicos que ocurren en forma simpatrica, y en regiones con condiciones climticas similares.
10.2307/40168300|The ranges of the Black Oystercatcher (Haematopus bachmani) and the American Oystercatcher (Haematopus palliatus frazari) overlap for approximately 480 km along the Pacific coast of Baja California. Phenotypes are variable, especially in coloration, and hybridization has long been known. Yet, at most localities parental morphs predominate, hybrids are uncommon, and assortative mating occurs when possible. The historical record is sufficiently detailed to allow demonstration of changes in the hybrid zone. At the turn of the century--or whenever they were first studied--most populations were composed largely of parental morphs. After intensive collecting, resulting in the virtual extermination of some populations, recolonization occurred from both north and south. The reconstituted populations differed from the original ones, and by the 1920s and 1930s the frequency of hybridization was high. Recently, however, many populations have returned to their original composition. The prevalence of parental forms, a demonstration of assortative mating, and the resumption of stability in the zone of hybridization after a period of dynamic change, all show that there is selection against hybridization in this zone of secondary contact and that the two forms are specifically distinct. The nature of the selective forces remains to be determined. /// Los rangos de distribucin del ostrero negro (Haematopus bachmani) y el ostrero americano (Haematopus palliatus frazari) se superponen por aproximadamente 480 km a lo largo de la costa del Pacfico de Baja California. Los fenotipos son variables, especialmente en coloracin y desde hace mucho se conocen casos de hbridacin. Todava, en la mayora de las localidades las formas parentales ("parental morphs") son las predominantes, los hbridos son poco comunes y los apareamientos se dan entre iguales cuando es posible. Los registros histricos son suficientemente detallados como para permitir demostrar cambios en la zona de hbridos. A fines del siglo pasado o cuando se llevaron a cabo los primeros estudios, la mayora de las poblaciones estaban compuestas comnmente por "parental morphs." Despus de la intensa coleccin de especmenes, que produjo la exterminacin "virtual" de algunas poblaciones, ocurri una recolonizacin tanto desde el norte como el sur. Las poblaciones reconstitudas fueron diferentes de aquellas originales y en las dcadas de 1920 y 1930 la frecuencia de hbridos fue alta. Sin embargo recientemente muchas poblaciones han regresado a su composicin original. La prevalecencia de "parental forms," una demostracin de apareamiento selectivo ("assortative mating") y una reasuncin de la estabilidad en zonas de hibridacin luego de un perodo de cambios dinmicos--todo indica que existe una seleccin en contra de los hbridos en estas zonas de contacto secundario y que las dos formas de ostreros son distintas a nivel de especie. Las caractersticas de las fuerzas de seleccin esperan ser determinadas.
10.2307/40166722|One of the most extreme examples of conflict between the sexes occurs in the Superb Fairy-wren (Malurus cyaneus), a cooperatively breeding bird in which 72% of nestlings were produced by extra-pair fertilizations. Males that gained extra-pair paternity were almost exclusively dominant breeding males out- side the group and not helpers. Group size had a significant effect on the number of young sired by males on their own territory. Males breeding in a pair (no helpers) sired more young (41%, 71/175 young) and provided more parental care (42% of feeding visits) than dominant breeding males that lived in groups with helpers (19%, 56/292 young; 25% of feeding visits). This pattern of extra-group paternity was a result of female choice and control of fertilization. When females lived in a group, helpers compensated for the lower parental assistance of the dominant breeding male, so all offspring were provisioned fully and there was no cost to the female or male in terms of reduced nestling survival. Thus, the mate choice of females with helpers was not constrained by the importance of male parental assistance. In unassisted pairs, females had no alternative source of parental assistance and may have allowed their mates greater paternity to ensure the assistance of the mates in providing parental care. The reduced workload of dominant breeding males in groups did not increase their survival; rather, it allowed them more time to engage in courtship displays to females on other territories. This increased display rate of males in groups was associated with a greater likelihood of gaining extra-group fertilizations, and it may have compensated males in groups for their lower within-pair paternity. The release of females from the constraint of male parental care was due to helpers, whereas the reduction in male parental care was most likely the result of a paternity cue and not simply the presence of helpers per se. After controlling statistically for group size, males provided less parental care when they had lower paternity. Thus, a detailed knowledge of the alternatives available to females (other sources of parental assistance) and males (opportunities for extra-pair matings) may be necessary to understand male and female reproductive strategies.
10.2307/40166718|Extra-pair behavior differs among populations of Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus). In the population that I studied in Washington State, female redwings actively seek extra-pair copulations (EPCs), whereas female redwings in a New York population do not. Females in my study population benefited from copulating with extra-pair males by increasing the proportion of young they fledged; females in other redwing populations may either gain or lose from extra-pair activity. In Washington, increased fledging success resulted from significantly lower depredation rates of clutches laid by females that copulated with multiple males. In addition, a lower proportion of nestlings tended to starve in broods containing extra-pair young. Females that engaged in EPCs improved their reproductive success by gaining additional nest defense from extra-pair males and access to additional food resources on extra-pair territories. Variation in female extra-pair behavior among redwing populations can be attributed both to differences in male behavior towards social mates that have engaged in EPCs and to differences in social and ecological factors that enhance the incentive for females to seek EPCs. Female incentive to initiate copulations with multiple males is considerable in my study population due to a large number of adjacent male neighbors that can potentially contribute to extra-pair nest defense, an increased risk of sperm depletion because of a high degree of polygyny, and a limited food supply that can be augmented by foraging on extra-pair territories. Further evaluation of the importance of these factors in shaping female extra-pair behavior will require additional observations of female behavior in other redwing populations and experimental tests in which breeding conditions are manipulated and their effect on female extra-pair mating patterns assessed.
10.2307/40157528|Recent molecular data have shown that the genus Caryothraustes (Cardinalinae) as currently recognized is paraphyletic because one of its member species, humeralis, is not the closest relative of the other two species in the genus. Therefore, a new genus is created for this species, the Yellow-shouldered Grosbeak, formerly known as Caryothraustes humeralis. /// Recientes datos moleculares han mostrado que el gnero Caryothraustes (Cardinalinae) como es reconocido actualmente, es parafiltico, porque una de sus especies integrantes, humeralis, no tiene la relacin ms prxima con las otras dos especies del gnero. Por lo tanto, se crea un nuevo gnero para la especie conocida antiguamente como "Caryothraustes" humeralis.
10.2307/40166805|The abundance of artiodactyls, marine mammals, waterfowl, seabirds, and other animals in 18th- and 19th-century California astonished early explorers, and the incredible wildlife densities reported in their accounts are routinely taken as analogues for the original or pristine zoological condition. However, recent analyses of archaeological fish and mammal materials from California and elsewhere in western North America document that those early historic-period faunal landcsapes represent poor analogues for prehistoric environments, because they postdate a dramatic 16th- or 17th-century population-crash of native hunters. The superabundance of tame wildlife witnessed during the early historic period may only reflect population irruptions that followed the demise of their main predators. While analyses of archaeological faunas from California have documented that prehistoric peoples had substantial impacts on populations of fish and mammals, harvest pressure on bird populations has yet to be documented. The hypothesis that prehistoric hunters caused depressions of avian taxa is tested here through a description and analysis of the Emeryville Shellmound avifauna: the first substantial, well-documented archaeological bird sequence for the late Holocene of California. A total of 64 species is represented by the 5,736 identified bird specimens derived from the stratified Emeryville deposits that date from between 2,600 and 700 years ago; waterfowl, cormorants, and shorebirds dominate the collection. Chrono-stratigraphic trends in relative taxonomic abundances and age structure within those groups are consistent with long-term anthropogenic depressions resulting from expansion of regional human populations over the occupational history of the mound. In general, large-sized bird species, those that occupied habitats closer to bayshore human residences, and those that were otherwise sensitive to human hunting pressure decreased in numbers over time. In the waterfowl assemblage, geese (Branta canadensis, B. hutchinsii, Anser albifrons, Chen caerulescens, C. rossii) declined significantly over time as compared with ducks, and the remains of the largest-sized geese (B. canadensis moffitti, A. albifrons, C. caerulescens) declined as compared with the smaller ones (e.g. B. hutchinsii, C. rossii). As hunting returns from local patches decreased over time, ever-increasing use was made of more distant, marine-oriented duck taxanamely scoters (Melanitta fusca and M. perspicillata). Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritis) were especially hard-hit by human harvesting activities, which caused the extirpation of local island-based colonies; changes in the relative age and species composition of the regional Phalacrocorax fauna; and, ultimately, a nearly complete abandonment of cormorant hunting. Finally, the largest species of shorebirdsMarbled God wits (Limosa fedoa), Long-billed Curlews (Numenius americanus), and Whimbrels (N. phaeopus)declined significantly over time, in comparison with smaller shorebird species. None of those patterns are correlated with changes in pertinent paleoenvironmental records that might indicate that they were caused by climate-based environmental change. They suggest, however, that activities of human foragers had a fundamental influence on the late Holocene avian fauna of the region, and that records of bird abundances, distributions, and behavior from the early historic period are anomalous in the context of the past several thousand years of intensive human harvesting. The conclusions presented here challenge the conventional wisdom regarding prehistoric landscape ecology in North America and have important implications for analyses that require information on long-term population histories, including those involving modern patterns in genetic diversity directed toward conservation-related problems. Received 10 April 2004, accepted 6 August 2004. /// La abundancia de artiodctilos, mamferos marinos, aves acuticas (Anseriformes), aves marinas y otros animales en California durante los siglos 18 y 19 deslumbr a los primeros exploradores, y las densidades increbles de fauna silvestre mencionadas en sus informes son tomadas de modo rutinario como anlogas a la condicin zoolgica original o prstina. Sin embargo, anlisis recientes de materiales arqueolgicos de peces y mamferos provenientes de California y de otros sitios del oeste de Amrica del Norte sealan que estos escenarios histricos tempranos de la fauna representan analogas equivocadas de los ambientes prehistricos, ya que ellos son posteriores a una reduccin dramtica de las poblaciones de cazadores nativos ocurrida durante el siglo 16 o 17. La superabundancia de fauna silvestre dcil observada durante el perodo histrico temprano puede slo reflejar irrupciones en las poblaciones que siguieron a la cada de sus principals depredadores. Mientras que los anlisis de la fauna arqueolgica de California han documentado que las poblaciones humanas prehistricas tuvieron un impacto substancial en las poblaciones de peces y mamferos, no se ha documentado an la presin de cosecha en las poblaciones de aves. La hiptesis de que los cazadores prehistricos causaron reducciones de taxa de aves es evaluada aqu a travs de la descripcin y el anlisis de la avifauna de Emeryville Shellmound: la primera secuencia arqueolgica de aves substancial y bien documentada del Holoceno tardo de California. Un total de 64 especies de aves est representado por 5736 ejemplares identificados, derivados de los depsitos estratificados de Emeryville, que datan de entre 2,600 y 700 aos atrs; dominan la coleccin los Anseriformes, los cormoranes y las aves playeras. Las tendencias crono-estratigrficas en las abundancias taxonmicas relativas y en la estructura de edades dentro de esos grupos son consistentes con las disminuciones a largo plazo de las poblaciones humanas, resultantes de la expansin regional de estas poblaciones durante el perodo de ocupacin del sitio arqueolgico. En general, las especies de aves de gran tamao, las que ocuparon ambientes cercanos a las playas habitadas por humanos y aquellas que de otro modo eran sensibles a la presin antrpica de caza decrecieron en abundancia con el tiempo. Entre los Anseriformes, los gansos (Branta canadensis, Anser albifrons, Chen caerulescens, C. rossii) declinaron significativamente con el tiempo en comparacin con los patos, y los restos de gansos de gran tamao (B. canadensis moffitti, A. albifrons, C. caerulescens) declinaron en comparacin con los ms pequeos (e.g. B. canadensis minima, C. rossii). A medida que la abundancia de presas cazadas en parches locales declin con el tiempo, se increment el uso de taxa ms afines a ambientes marinos ubicados a mayor distancia, como Melanitta fusca y M. perspicillata. El cormorn Phalacrocorax auritas fue especialmente afectado por las actividades de cosecha de los humanos, que causaron la extirpacin de colonias locales ubicadas en islas, cambios en la edad relativa y la composicin de especies de la fauna regional de Phalacrocorax y, finalmente, el abandono casi total de la caza de cormoranes. Finalmente, las especies de aves playeras de mayor tamao, Limosa fedoa, Numenius americanus y N. phaeopus, declinaron significativamente con el tiempo, en comparacin con especies playeras de menor tamao. Ninguno de estos patrones estn correlacionados con variaciones en los registros paleo-ambientales que puedan indicar que fueron causados por cambios en el clima. Sin embargo, estos patrones sugieren que las actividades de los humanos recolectores tuvieron una influencia fundamental en la avifauna regional del Holoceno tardo, y que los registros de las abundancias, distribuciones y comportamiento de las aves del perodo histrico temprano son anmalas en el contexto de los ltimos varios miles de aos de cosecha intensa por parte de humanos. Las conclusiones presentadas aqu desafian la creencia convencional sobre la ecologa de paisajes prehistricos en Amrica del Norte y tienen implicancias importantes para los anlisis que requieren informacin de historias poblacionales de largo plazo, incluyendo aquellas que consideran patrones modernos en diversidad gentica dirigidos a problemas de conservacin.
10.2307/40166717|In light of current knowledge of the behavioral and genetic complexity of avian mating systems, both conventional classifications of mating systems and traditional models for their evolution are inadequate. In this paper we attempt to provide a synthetic view of the major avian mating systems, recognizing common aspects without imposing arbitrarily rigid categories. Our scheme incorporates both genetic and social aspects of mating systems and focuses on individual mating tactics. Although classification tends to imply stasis, we suggest that mating systems may be quite fluid in both ecological and evolutionary time. Flow is possible because the range of mating tactics available to both male and female birds is not limited by the mating system. Thus, individuals may respond quickly to the opportunities and constraints of changing circumstances. The movement of populations or species between mating system types may also be closely related to the fluctuating heritability of traits used in mate choice. We suggest that conditional mating tactics and female mating (as opposed to parental) tactics are key mating system parameters. Predictions (such as the expected relationship between paternity and male parental investment) that ignore conditional mating tactics, or explanations (such as for consortship patterns) that ignore conditional or female mating tactics are likely to be simplistic or erroneous. Future understanding of avian mating systems will be most enhanced by close analysis of the opportunities and activities of all phenotypic classes within a population, and by experimental manipulation of those opportunities. Genetic, developmental, and historical constraints that may affect the expression of mating tactics should also receive more attention. As this kind of information becomes available, a more complete, accurate, and integrated understanding of avian mating systems will be possible.
10.2307/40166844|The variation in microscopic characters of plumulaceous feathers is well known to be useful as an aid in species identifications. However, until now, the phylogenetic significance of these characters has not been thoroughly investigated. In the first part of this study, electron and light microscopy were used to examine the range of variation in downy feather characters of more than 145 species of shorebirds (Charadriiformes) and outgroup taxa. The major results of Part 1 demonstrate that similarities and differences exist in the microscopic features within this order, that different downy types (true down vs. contour feather down) of the same individual may have different microscopic structures, that some shorebirds have villi (previously unknown on the barbule bases of this group), and 38 microscopic feather characters are deemed useful for phylogenetic study. In Part 2, parsimony analysis was used to assess the phylogenetic value of these characters by comparing feather results to hypotheses based on osteological data and traditional classification. Three different taxa lists are analyzed using the computer software PAUP, Star (*) version. Although initial analyses of 111 taxa and 38 feather characters found more than 10,000 equally parsimonious trees, the analyses provided evidence that feather characters were tracking some natural groupings in this order. Additional analyses on two smaller sets of taxa used feather characters alone (38 characters), osteological characters alone (68 characters), and a combination of both character types to search for shortest trees. The final reduced-taxa analysis shows that feather character tree statistics and character indices are comparable to those of skeletal characters. Incongruence in tree topologies is noted in the placement of plovers with sandpipers according to feather characters. Indices of total-evidence trees for 154 shortest trees are higher than either of the data sets alone. Convergence in microscopic feather characters of loons and auks has been documented here for the first time and a functional hypothesis for nodal morphology is proposed. In this study of Charadriiformes, microscopic feather characters prove to be comparable to osteological characters in tracking phylogeny. However, better results are achieved when the data sets are combined. These results support the utility of microscopic feather characters in phylogenetic studies and in microscopic identification of avian species from fragmentary evidence.
10.1525/om.2013.75.1.1|Population declines in songbirds are often attributed to regional habitat loss and fragmentation caused by land-use practices, which might be further aggravated by climate change. These concerns are particularly evident in the Intermountain West, where riparian areas are considered a priority for conservation because of predicted reductions in winter precipitation and increases in spring temperatures. These climatic changes might increase the susceptibility of species reliant on riparian areas to regional extirpation from loss of habitat. The Willow Flycatcher (
10.2307/40166895|Problems in deciphering the patterns and causes of geographic variation and speciation in birds occupied Ned Johnson (e.g., Johnson 1980, Cicero and Johnson 1998, Johnson and Cicero 2002) and many other ornithologists for much of their lives, but the recent onslaught of molecular studies and associated analytical methods are providing breakthroughs in understanding these evolutionary phenomena. In particular, coalescent theory and Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) applications have shown that bird species are sometimes strongly structured into well-differentiated populations by historical subdivision, high philopatry, and small effective population sizes, whereas other species that have recently recolonized parts of their range are effectively panmictic. These are the sorts of results that were impossible to obtain from studies of geographic variation in phenotypic characters alone. Recovery of well-supported species trees from gene trees is much more likely when multiple genes are sequenced, and provides the means for inferring divergence times and patterns and processes of evolution in birds. As in other vertebrates, patterns of cladogenesis in large clades of birds correlate with major paleoenvironmental changes and associated adaptive radiations, reminding us that much of current biodiversity on the planet had its genesis in the distant past. Received 24 July 2006, accepted 5 February 2007. /// Ornitlogos como Ned Johnson, entre muchos otros, han dedicado gran partede sus carreras a analizar las causas y patrones en la variacin geogrfica y la especiacin enaves (e.g. Johnson 1980, Cicero and Johnson 1998, Johnson and Cicero 2002). Recientemente,los estudios moleculares y los mtodos analticos asociados han provisto de las herramientas necesarias para entender estos fenmenos evolutivos. En particular, el uso de la teora de coalescencia y los algoritmos asociados a las cadenas de Markov Monte Carlo han demostrado que algunas especies de aves presentan una estructura poblacional muy marcada, producto de subdiviciones histricas, filopatra y tamaos poblacionales efectivos reducidos, mientras que otras especies que recientemente han recolonizado una parte de su rea de distribucin son panmticas. Estos resultados son difciles de obtener estudiando nicamente la variacin geogrfica de caracteres fenotpicos. Al igual que en otros vertebrados, los patrones de cladognesis en grandes clados de aves se correlacionan con eventos paleoambientales y radiaciones adaptativas asociadas, recordndonos que gran parte de la biodiversidad del planeta tuvo su gnesis en un pasado lejano.
10.1525/om.2010.67.1.141|The Cinnamon Teal (
10.2307/40587707|Ernst Mayr last attended a meeting of the American Ornithologists' Union (AOU) in 1983, and several generations of ornithologists know him only through his publications. Students (and younger ornithologists) probably associate his name primarily with the Biological Species Concept that he championed for more than 60 years, or identify him as an architect of the Evolutionary Synthesis that revolutionized thinking about evolution in the 1940s. Those with a theoretical or historical bent will be familiar with his contributions to the history and philosophy of biology, as exemplified by The Growth of Biological Thought (1982), Toward a New Philosophy of Biology (1988), and One Long Argument (1991), all published after Mayr's "retirement." Older AOU members will recall his early contributions to avian systematics and biogeography, which came full circle in 2001 with the publication of The Birds of Northern Melanesia by Mayr and Jared Diamond. Many of Mayr's writings express his deep admiration of Charles Darwin and argue that Darwin's contributions resulted, in no small measure, from the fact that he was a naturalist who was fascinated with and stimulated by the immense diversity of life in the world around him. I argue that, in addition to his well-deserved recognition as ornithologist, systematist, evolutionist, historian, and philosopher, Ernst Mayr is a naturalist in the Darwinian tradition. To support this thesis, I present accounts of his early activities and his interactions with "amateur" ornithologists (especially youthful ones), a content analysis of one of his seminal works, and a discussion of the careers and personal experiences of the graduate students he supervised. I conclude that Mayr meets Futuyma's definition of a naturalist as "a person who is inexhaustibly fascinated by biological diversity, and who does not view organisms merely as models, or vehicles of theory but, rather, as the [thing].. . that excites our admiration and our desire for knowledge, understanding, and preservation" (Futuyma 1998: 2). Ernst Mayr asisiti por ltima vez a un congreso de la American Ornithologists' Union (AOU) en 1983, y muchas generaciones de ornitlogos slo lo conocen a travs de sus publicaciones. Los estudiantes (y ornitlogos ms jvenes) probablemente asocian su nombre principalmente con el concepto biolgico de especie por el que abog por ms de sesenta aos, o lo identifican como uno de los arquitectos de la sntesis evolutiva que revolucion el pensamiento sobre la evolucin en la dcada de 1940. Aquellos con un inters ms terico o histrico estarn familiarizados con las contribuciones de Mayr a la historia y la filosofa de la biologa, ejemplificadas por tres libros publicados luego de su "retiro": El Crecimiento del Pensamiento Biolgico (" The Growth of Biological Thought", 1982), Hacia una Nueva Filosofa de la Biologia (" Toward a New Philosophy of Biology", 1988) y Un Argumento Largo (" One Long Argument", 1991). Los miembros mayores de la AOU recordarn sus contribuciones a la sistemtica y biogeografia de las aves, que se cristalizaron en 2001 con la publicacin de Las Aves del Norte de Melanesia ("The Birds of Northern Melanesia") por parte de Mayr y Jared Diamond. Muchos de los escritos de Mayr expresan su profunda admiracin hacia Charles Darwin y aducen que las contribuciones de Darwin fueron, no en pequea medida, el producto de su condicin de naturalista fascinado con y estimulado por la inmensa diversidad de la vida en el mundo que lo rodeaba. En este ensayo, propongo que adems de su bien merecido reconocimiento como ornitlogo, sistemtico, evolucionista, historiador y filsofo, Ernst Mayr fue un naturalista en la tradicin de Darwin. Para apoyar esta tesis, presento recuentos de sus actividades tempranas y sus interacciones con ornitlogos "aficionados" (especialmente con los jvenes), un anlisis de uno de sus trabajos seminales y una discusin de las carreras y experiencias personales de los estudiantes que l supervis. Concluyo que Mayr satisface la definicin de naturalista de Futyuma, como una persona incansablemente fascinada con la diversidad biolgica, que no ve a los organismos simplemente como modelos o como objetos para plantear teoras, sino como aquello que excita nuestra admiracin y deseo de conocimiento, entendimiento y preservacin (Futuyma 1998: 2).
10.2307/40168294|Sericossypha albocristata has consistently been placed in the Thraupinae, a taxon of New World nine-primaried oscines, in all ornithological works concerned with South America. Doubt regarding this arrangement has persisted, however, with opinion generally favoring placement in the Cotingidae, a suboscine taxa. I analyzed six skeletal characters, five cranial and one postcranial, of S. albocristata in a survey of the Cotingidae and Thraupinae. In all instances S. albocristata possessed structural characters similar to the Thraupinae but not the Cotingidae, and no characters shared with cotingas were not likewise shared with tanagers. The nine-primaried condition of S. albocristata is an additional character shared with all tanagers and differing from the contingas, which possess a functional tenth primary. While this analysis establishes the relationship of S. albocristata to the New World nine-primaried oscines, it does not provide a basis for determining its relationship to the tanagers. A new bony structure, the Processus manubrii, of the sternum that was not found in any other species surveyed is described for S. albocristata. /// En todos los trabajos ornitolgicos concernientes a Sudamrica se ha considerado repitadamente a Sericossypha albocristata miembro de la subfamilia Thraupinae, un taxn del Nuevo Mundo de los oscines de nueve primarias. Sin embargo han persistido dudas respecto a este arreglo, con opiniones generalmente favorables a su colocacion taxonmica con Cotingidae, una taxa suboscine. He analizado seis caracteres seos, cinco craniales y uno postcranial, en S. albocristata en un reconocimiento de los Cotingidae y Thraupinae. En todas las instancias S. albocristata poseey carcteres estructurales similares a los de Thraupinae, pero no a los de Cotingidae, y no hubo carcteres compartidos con las cotingas que no fueran tambin compartidos con las tanagaras. La conditin de nueve primarias que se encuentra en S. albocristata es un carcter adicional compartido con todas las tangaras y diferenciante de las cotingas las cuales que poseen una decima primaria funcional. Si bin este anlisis establece la relacin de S. albocristata, con los oscines de nueve primarias del Nuevo Mundo, no provee una base para su relacin con las tanagaras. Una nueva estructura sea del esternn, el Processus Manubrii, que no se encuentra en ninguna otra especie inspeccionada, es descrito para S. albocristata.
10.2307/40157538|Relationships among 14 species of araaris (toucans) in the genus Pteroglossus (Ramphastidae) were addressed using allozyme data. Low levels of genetic differentiation among species in the genus were found in comparison to most other studies of Neotropical birds. A scenario relating life-history characteristics of organisms to possible levels of genetic differentiation is proposed. Analyses of allozyme genetic distance data identified two major groups of species: the first group includes members of the torquatus complex (torquatus, frantzii, sanguineus, and erythropygius), flavirostris, mariae, castanotis, and pluricinctus; the second group includes inscriptus, bitorquatus, and beauharnaesii. Of three outgroups (Ramphastos, Selenidera, and Baillonius), the monotypic Saffron Toucanet, Baillonius bailloni, is most allozymically similar to Pteroglossus. Mitochondrial DNA sequences of the cytochrome b gene confirm low levels of genetic differentiation among members of the Pteroglossus torquatus complex. Because genetic distances among most species are low, congruence of these branching patterns with phylogenies based on other character systems is assessed. Biogeographic implications of the phylogenetic pattern are also discussed. /// Se vieron las relaciones entre 14 especies de araaris (tucanes) en el gnero de Pteroglossus (Ramphastidae) usando datos de alozimas. Se encontraron niveles bajos de diferenciacin gentica entre las especies en comparacin a otros estudios de aves neotropicales. Se propone un escenario que relaciona las caractersticas de la historia de vida de los organismos a posibles niveles de diferenciacin gentica. El anlisis de los datos de la distancia gentica de las alozimas identifie dos grupos principales de especies: el primer grupo incluye miembros del complejo torquatus (torquatus, frantzii, sanguineus, y erythropygius), flavorostris, mariae, castanotis, y pluricinctus; el segundo grupo incluye inscriptus, bitorquatus, y beauharnaesii. De los tres grupo externo (Ramphastos, Selenidera, y Baillonius), el Toucanet azaf rn monotpico, Baillonius bailloni, es ms parecido en sus alozimas a Pteroglossus. Las secuencias del ADN mitocondrial del gen del citocroma b confirman niveles bajos de diferenciacin gentica entre miembros del complejo de los Pteroglossus torquatus. Porque las distancias genticas entre la mayora de las especies son bajas, discuto estos patrones de ramificacin con filogenias basadas en otros sistemas de caracteres. Tambin se discuten las implicaciones biogeogrficas del patrn filogentico.
10.2307/40157527|The taxonomy of the genus Scytalopus (Aves; Rhinocryptidae) is revised. Full descriptions of the 10 Ecuadorian taxa are given, with some indication of their annual cycle, and details of their vocalizations, habitats, and geographical distribution. Notes are given on all extralimital forms, and a new taxonomy based on vocal data, and often supported by new distributional and genetic data, is proposed. The number of species in the genus rises from 11 to 37, two or three of which remain unnamed. Two additional populations are identified as being distinct, but their geographical distributions have not been satisfactorily delimited. Sonagrams of most taxa are presented. Three new species are named and described. Full species status is proposed for most taxa ranked as subspecies by Zimmer (1939) and Peters (1951). Several of these species have sympatric distributions, and others have different songs. Allopatric taxa with the same body mass and elevational distributions, and with relatively similar, but yet distinctive songs are united into superspecies. /// Se revisa la taxonoma del gnero Scytalopus (Aves; Rhinocryptidae), uno de los gneros ms problemticos del mundo. Se dan descripciones completas de los 10 taxa ecuatorianos, con algunas indicaciones sobre su ciclo anual, y detalles de sus vocalizaciones, habitats, y distribucin geogrfica. Tambin se dan notas sobre todas las formas extralimitales, y se propone una nueva taxonoma basada en datos de vocalizaciones, en muchos casos respaldados por nuevos registros geogrficos y anlisis genticos. El nmero de especies en este gnero sube de 11 hasta 37, dos o tres de ellas permanecen innominanadas. Adicionalmente dos poblaciones han sido claramenete identificadas, pero su distribucin geogrfica todava no est satisfactoriamente delimitada. Sonogramas de las vocalizaciones conocidas para casi todas las especies se presentan. Tres especies nuevas han sido nominadas y descritas. Se propone el status de especie para la mayora de los taxa ubicados como subespecie por Zimmer (1939) y Peters (1951). Algunas de estas especies tienen distribuciones simptricas, otras tienen cantos diferentes. Taxa alloptricos con el mismo peso corporal y la misma distribucin altitudinal, y con cantos relativamente similares pero an distintos, se agrupan en superespecies.
10.2307/40157557|Until recently the endemic Tumbesan swallow, Tachycineta [albilinea] stolzmanni, was known from only a handful of specimens, with nothing known about its natural history. Because of this dearth of information, stolzmanni has been treated for the past sixty years as a subspecies of the Mangrove Swallow (Tachycineta albilinea) of Central America. Newly acquired data on the vocalizations, nest structure, and morphology of stolzmanni indicate that it deserves specific status. /// Hasta recientemente la golondrina de Tumbes, Tachycineta [albilinea] stolzmanni, era conocida por pocos especmenes y no se conoca algo de su historia natural. Debido a la escacez de informatin, stolzmanni ha sido tratada en los ltimos sesenta aos como una subespecie de la golondrina manglera (Tachycineta albilinea) de Centroamrica. Informacin adquirida recientemente sobre las vocalizaciones, estructura del nido y morfologa de stolzmanni indica que merece reconocimiento como especie.
10.2307/40166802|Five species of obligate ant-following birdsPhlegopsis nigromaculata, Myrmeciza fortis, Rhegmatorhina melanosticta, Gymnopithys salvini (Thamnophilidae), and Dendrocincla merula (Dendrocolaptidae)and two species of army ants (Eciton burchelli and Labidus praedator) were studied in Amazonian Peru over five years. Here, I explore aspects of species coexistence in these five ecologically similar birds through analyses of their population ecology, resource use, behavior, and spatial movement patterns. Mean home-range size of each antbird species was reduced through reliance on the unpredictable but abundant foraging opportunities at L. praedator swarms. This little-known ant species played a pivotal role in expanding the foraging resource available to the obligate ant-following birds, which allowed an increase in the birds' population densities well above what would be supported solely by the better-known E. burchelli army ants. Two of the five bird species (D. merula and M. fortis) displayed resource selectivity among antswarms by foraging significantly more with one of the two ant species. The woodcreeper D. merula further segregated from the four antbirds in its utilization of white-lipped peccary (Tayassu peccari) herds as a foraging resource; the peccaries act as "beaters'' of arthropod prey in a manner similar to that of the army ants. The three antbirds that did not prefer one army ant species over the other (P. nigromaculata, R. melanosticta, and G. salvini) segregated by body mass, which may allow differential use of space along the width of an antswarm front. That size difference would permit a smaller, more subordinate species to "fit" along the front of a swarm that was already "full" to a different bird species. Population dynamics of the birds were not stable over five years of data collection, and total population of obligate ant-followers declined by almost half over the course of the study. It is suggested that periodic population fluctuations are a normal occurrence in guilds of obligate ant-followers and may be exacerbated by the lack of territoriality exhibited by most of these species. Lower population density correlated with decreased interference competition among individuals. Population fluctuations may increase the ability of the subordinate species R. melanosticta to coexist with the larger, dominant P. nigromaculata in floodplain forest. Nest-site selection may contribute to niche breadth among the obligate ant-followers. I provide descriptions of the nests, eggs, and nestlings of P. nigromaculata, R. melanosticta, and G. salvini, which were undescribed at the start of the present study. Received 22 November 2003, accepted 3 February 2004. /// Se estudiaron cinco especies de aves que siguen hormigas arrierasPhlegopsis nigromaculata, Myrmeciza fortis, Rhegmatorhina melanosticta y Gymnopithys salvini (Thamnophilidae) y Dendrocincla merula (Dendrocolaptidae)y dos especies de estas hormigas (Eciton burchelli y Labidus praedator) en la Amazona peruana durante cinco aos. En este trabajo se exploran aspectos de la coexistencia de estas cinco especies ecolgicamente similares por medio de anlisis de su ecologa poblacional, uso de recursos, comportamiento y patrones espaciales de movimiento. El tamao promedio del rango de hogar de cada especie de Thamnophilidae fue reducido por su dependencia en las impredecibles pero abundantes oportunidades de forrajear que brindan los ejrcitos de L. praedator. Esta especie de hormiga jug un papel determinante para expandir los recursos disponibles para las aves, lo que permiti un incremento en la densidad poblacional de stas ms all de los niveles que podran mantenerse nicamente con las hormigas de la especie E. burchelli. Dos de las cinco especies de aves (D. merula y M. fortis) exhibieron selectividad de recursos entre legiones de hormigas, forrajeando signficativamente ms junto a una de las dos especies de hormigas. Adems, el trepatronco D. merula se segreg ecolgicamente de las otras cuatro especies de aves en trminos de su utilizacin de manadas de huanganas (Tayassu peccari) como recurso de forrajeo; estos animales espantan artrpodos que pueden ser depredados por las aves en una forma similar a como lo hacen las hormigas arrieras. Las tres especies que no prefirieron una especie de hormiga sobre la otra (P. nigromaculata, R. melanosticta y G. salvini) se segregaron en trminos de su peso corporal, lo que podra permitir un uso diferencial del espacio en el frente de avance de los ejrcitos de hormigas. Las diferencias de tamao podran permitir que las especies ms pequeas y subordinadas puedan acomodarse en el frente de un ejrcito que ya estara lleno para individuos de otra especie. Las dinmicas poblacionales de las aves no fueron estables a travs de los cinco aos de toma de datos, y el total de la poblacin de aves seguidoras de hormigas declin a casi la mitad durante el curso del estudio. Se sugiere que las fluctuaciones poblacionales peridicas son eventos normales en los gremios de aves que siguen hormigas obligatoriamente, y que stas podran ser acentuadas por la falta de territorialidad exhibida por la mayoria de las especies. Los tamaos poblacionales menores se correlacionaron con una competencia por interferencia reducida entre individuos. Las fluctuaciones poblacionales podran incrementar la habilidad de la especie subordinada R. melanosticta para coexistir en el bosque del plano de inundacin con P. nigromaculata, que es ms grande y dominante. La selectin de sitios de nidificacin podra contribuir a la amplitud del nicho entre las aves seguidoras de hormigas. Aqu proveo descripciones de los nidos, huevos y pichones de P. nigromaculata, R. melanosticta y G. salvini, los cuales no haban sido descritos al comienzo de este estudio.
10.2307/40168286|The islands of Aruba, Curaao, and Bonaire, here called South Caribbean Islands, claim few indigenous land bird species (34) and even fewer waterbirds and seabirds (27). In contrast, the number of non-breeding visitors from North America (102 species) and other parts of the West Indies (1 species and 3 subspecies), regular visitors and stragglers from South America (2 and 24 species, respectively), and non-breeding seabirds (27 species), is remarkably large (159 species). The islands constitute real crossroads for birds moving across the Caribbean Sea in all directions. The birds originate from as far as Canada in the north and Argentina in the south. In the past fifty years, species have been added to the known avifauna whenever ornithologists have visited the islands. The present paper summarizes the occurrence of 77 species recorded in the islands for the first time since the last checklist (Voous 1965). These new data are discussed against faunistic and zoogeographical backgrounds. Patterns of migration and wandering are considered, as are the temporary appearance and nesting of fresh-water birds (freshwater bird nomadism), the occurrence of seabirds and introduced birds, and avian extinction and conservation. /// Las islas de Aruba, Curaao y Bonaire, aqu llamadas Islas del sur del Caribe, poseen pocas especies de aves terrestres indgenas (34) y an menos aves acuticas y marinas (27). En contraste la cantidad de visitantes no anidadores desde Amrica del Norte (102 especies) y otras partes de las Indias Occidentals (1 especie y 3 subespecies) y tambin visitantes regulares y rezagados de Amrica del Sur (2 y 24 especies respectivamente) y aves marinas no anidadoras (27 especies) es notablemente grande (159 especies en total). Estas islas constituyen un verdadero cruce de rutas para aves que se mueven en todas direcciones a lo largo del mar Caribe. Las aves provienen desde tan lejos como Canad al norte y Argentina al sur. Durante los ltimos 50 aos, cada vez que las islas fueron visitadas por ornitlogos, se aument el nmero de especies en la avifauna. En el presente trabajo se presenta un resumen sobre la presencia de 77 especies registradas en las islas por primera vez despus la ltima lista de aves (Voous, 1965). Esta nueva informacin es discutida con respecto a los parmetros faunsticos y zoogeogrficos. Se consideran los modelos migratorios y de dispersiones irregulares tales como la presencia temporaria y anidacin de aves acuticas ("fresh-water bird nomadism"), la aparicin de aves marinas e introducidas y conservacin y extincin de aves.
10.2307/40157548|The ecologically diverse valley of the upper middle Ro Huallaga, depto. Hunuco, Per, is isolated by mountains on the south, east and west and supports several endemic subspecies of birds. We herein describe a new subspecies of Myrmoborus leucophrys from the humid forest near Tingo Mara, and of Phrygilus alaudinus from the rain-shadow desert near the town of Hunuco. /// El valle del Ro Huallaga medio en el depto. Hunuco, Per, es ecologicamente diverso y esta aislado por cordilleras al sur, este, y oeste. En este valle viven varias subespecies de aves endemicas. Aqui publicamos la descripcin de una nueva subespecie de Myrmoborus leucophrys del bosque hmedo de las cercanas de la ciudad de Tingo Mara, y de una nueva subespcie de Phrygilus alaudinus de la zona arida de las cercanas de la ciudad de Hunuco.
10.2307/40157556|The St. Lucia Nightjar (Caprimulgus otiosus) exhibits minimal vocal and plumage differentiation from mainland forms of the Rufous Nightjar (C. rufus), and, therefore, we consider otiosus conspecific with rufus. Caprimulgus rufus otiosus appears to be resident on the northeastern section of St. Lucia, Lesser Antilles; specimen records from Venezuela are considered erroneous. We recognize the following described subspecies: otiosus (St. Lucia), minimus (Costa Rica to N. Venezuela), rufus (NW Brazil, S. Venezuela, east through the Guianas, and south to south of the Ro Amazonas), and rutilus (S. Brazil, N. Argentina, E. Bolivia). /// Las vocalizaciones y el plumaje del tapacaminos de Santa Luca (Caprimulgus otiosus) y de la forma continental C. rufus, son muy parecidas, por lo que se les considera como conespecficos. Caprimulgus rufus otiosus aparentemente es residente de la seccin noreste de Santa Luca en las Antillas Menores; consideramos que los registros de Venezuela son errneos. Nosotros reconocemos las siguientes subespecies descritas: otiosus (Santa Luca), minimus (de Costa Rica al N de Venezuela), rufus (NW Brazil, S Venezuela, E de las Guyanas hasta el lado sur del Ro Amazonas), y rutilus (S Brazil, N Argentina y E Bolivia).
10.2307/40166896|Debate over species concepts has been a persistent theme in biology. We briefly summarize competing species concepts and facets of the debate itself. We maintain that the inherent subjectivity within all species concepts is likely to ensure continued disagreement on where to place species limits. Although the debate itself contributes to the understanding of speciation and evolutionary processes, it can take on political overtones through posturing, caricatures, and provocative statements. Empirically, neither basic nor applied science would seem to have been slowed appreciably because the species-concept debate remains unresolved. Similarly, continued disagreement must be placed in its proper context (e.g., be shelved) when considering the preservation of biodiversity. To a considerable extent, this has occurred within the conservation community. The biological species concept (BSC) and its inclusion of diagnosably distinct populations as subspecies remain dominant in ornithology. This may be attributable, in part, to the seemingly infinitely fine divisions possible under phylogenetic species concepts (PSC)-which, among other things, could strain public credulity over what constitutes a species. Nevertheless, the strengths of each of these concepts are being applied to improve our understanding of biodiversity. The longstanding disagreement over species concepts should not become an impediment to responsible conservation and wildlife management. It probably has not occurred broadly yet, but there may be potential for such an effect in the political arena. Received 30 July 2006, accepted 23 February 2007. /// El concepto de especie es un tema polmico en biologa. Resumimos brevemente los distintos conceptos de especie y las facetas del debate. Consideramos que la subjetividad inherente a todos los conceptos de especie garantiza un continuo desacuerdo en como delimitar las especies. Aunque el debate en si mismo contribuye a entender el proceso de especiacin y otros procesos evolutivos, muchas veces se desarrolla en trminos demasiado caricaturescos, burlescos y provocativos. De hecho, la continuidad del debate no parece haber ralentizado ni la ciencia bsica ni la aplicada. De igual modo, el continuo desacuerdo debe contextualizarse cuando consideramos la conservacin de la diversidad. El concepto biolgico de especie (BSC) y la inclusin de las poblaciones diagnosticables como subespecies, sigue predominando en ornitologa. Esto puede deberse en parte a las infinitas divisiones que se pueden realizar bajo el concepto filogentico de especie (PSC), lo que entre otras cosas, puede afectar el entendimiento del pblico en general sobre qu es una especie. Sin embargo, los puntos fuertes de cada concepto se estn aplicando para llegar a un mejor entendimiento de la biodiversidad. Este desacuerdo histrico sobre el concepto de especie no tiene por qu ser un impedimento para una poltica responsable para la conservacin y gestin de la vida salvaje.
10.2307/40166716|Many researchers have explored the ramifications of the idea that extra-pair copulation (EPC) is a male reproductive tactic to obtain parentage while avoiding parental investment since this concept was advanced by Trivers in 1972. Consortship between males and their fertile mates has been interpreted almost exclusively in terms of mate guarding by males. Females have been thought to benefit little, if at all, from extra-pair activities. This mindset has persisted and influences our interpretation of patterns of reproductive success revealed by molecular markers. Here we briefly trace the historical development of this line of reasoning and the newer, contrasting view--well represented in this volume--that females as well as males have EPC tactics. We identify specific contributions made by authors in this volume, contrast their approaches, and discuss the implications of their results for the understanding of avian mating systems and the role of sexual selection in avian social evolution. Finally, we illustrate the richness of this collection of papers by expanding on key points.
10.2307/40168289|The currently recognized genus of Neotropical flowerpiercers, Diglossa (?Thraupinae), is polyphyletic as shown primarily by the structure of the corneous tongue. The species caerulescens, cyanea and glauca constitute the genus Diglossopis Sclater 1856, whereas the remaining species form the restricted genus Diglossa Wagler 1832. These genera are not closely related to one another within the New World nine-primaried oscines and have acquired their frilled tongue and other nectar feeding adaptations independently. Similarities in the flower-piercing nectarivorous habits and the bill structures of the two genera are examples of convergent evolution. /// El gnero actualmente reconocido para mieleros, Diglossa (?Thraupinae), tiene su origen en varios linajes ("polyphyletic") tal como lo muestra principalmente la estructura de la lengua cornea. Las especies caerulescens, cyanea y glauca constituyen el gnero Diglossopis Sclater 1856, mientras que las restantes especies, el gnero restringido Diglossa Wagler 1832. Estos gneros no estn cercanamente relacionados entre s con los oscines de nueve primarias del Nuevo Mundo y han adquirido su lengua escarolada y otras adaptaciones para su alimentatin de nctar, de manera independiente. Las similaridades en los hbitos nectarvoros de picar flores y en la estructura del pico de los dos gneros son ejemplos de evolutin convergente.
10.2307/40168305|Afrotropical Piciformes include the barbets (Capitonidae), honeyguides (Indicatoridae), and woodpeckers (Picidae), and neotropical Piciformes include barbets, toucans (Ramphastidae, here regarded as an offshoot of, and closely related to, barbets), and woodpeckers. The relationship of the other extant supposed piciforms, i.e., jacamars (Galbulidae) and puffbirds (Bucconidae), to the families just mentioned is controversial, and they are not considered here. Many complex factors affect adaptive radiation of bird families and orders. Access to continental areas from without, opportunities presented for speciation, relatively small sample sizes, and uniqueness of associated biotic and climatic events on different continents are some of these. The paucity of fossils also makes comparisons difficult. The taxa discussed are of uncertain origin. The pantropical Capitonidae are diverse and numerous in the Afrotropics (seven genera, 42 species), and much less so in the neotropics (three genera, seven species), unless toucans are included (six genera, 33 species), whereupon the diversity and numbers become more comparable. Honey- guides are primarily Afrotropical (four genera, 15 species) with penetration of southern Asia by one genus (two species). Other than the one genus of honeyguide (Indicator) reaching Asia, all other genera of neotropical and Afrotropical barbets, toucans, and honeyguides are endemic to those regions. Afrotropical picid genera number only six, and of the 26 species, 23 represent the three endemic genera, two of which (Campethera, 10 species, Dendropicos, 12 species) show the only radiations of picids in that region. In contrast the neotropics have 95 species of picids in 11 genera, four of which are endemic. Climatic and other historical factors affecting distribution of forests, but more particularly of woodlands, have played a major role in the radiation of Afrotropical barbets, honeyguides, and the two genera of woodpeckers. Honeyguides themselves may have influenced the radiation of the other two groups, upon which they are nest parasites. Surprisingly few piciforms have entered the Afrotropics from without (only the picid genera Sasia from Asia and Picoides from Eurasia), or left the region (only the two honeyguides, perhaps one Jynx, and probably the ancestor of Picoides). In the neotropics opportunities for speciation have been greater because of alternating wet-dry periods in Amazonia and other areas, and because of the Andean uplift and its associated biotic effects. There has also been some immigration of picids into the neotropics from the north. Picoides is definitely an Old World derivative that entered North, and then South America. Middle America and the West Indies have been important secondary centers of radiation in the neotropics, with emigration of species of Melanerpes, Colaptes, and Campephilus to the nearctic, of Dryocopus to the nearctic, Eurasia, and Southern Asia, and, remarkably, of Picumnus and Celeus to (or conceivably but not likely from) southern Asia. Radiation in the genera of these families is discussed. Understanding the patterns of radiation poses great problems because of a lack of data on factors (insect faunas, predators, non-piciform and even non-avian competitors, and floral differences) that could have affected them. Nest parasitism by honeyguides in the Afrotropics, and the usurpation of nest cavities in both the Afrotropics and neotropics by diverse other birds, mammals, and other animals are apt to have had a major influence on woodpecker radiation, as is the competition of bark foragers (this may be more severe in the Afrotropics, where even some barbets are likely competitors). The factors having the most important influence on the nature of and differences in radiation patterns discerned are probably the historical ones mentioned above. /// Los Piciformes de Africa tropical incluyen chaboclos (Capitonidae), mieleros ("honeyguides") (Indicatoridae), y carpinteros (Picidae); los Piciformes neotropicales incluyen chaboclos, tucanes (Ramphastidae, aqu considerados como derivados de y cercanamente relacionado a, chaboclos) y carpinteros. Es controversial la relacin de las familias anteriormente mencionadas con las otras existentes, su puestamente Piciformes, por ejemplo jacares (Galbulidae) y chacurues (Bucconidae), por lo que en este trabajo no se los considera. Muchos factores complejos afectan la radiaccin adaptativa de las familias y rdenes de aves. Algunos de ellos son: acceso a reas continentales desde afurera, oportunidad presentada para especiacin, cantidad de ejemplares relativamente pequea y singularidad de eventos biticos y climticos asociados en diferentes continentes. Tambin se hacen dificiles las comparaciones debido a la escasez de fsiles. Las taxas discutidas son de origen incierto. Los capitonidae pantropicales son diversos y numerosos en Africa tropical (siete generos, 42 especies) y muchos menos en el neotrpico (tres gneros y siete especies) a no ser que se incluyen los tucanes (seis gneros y 33 especies), de manera que las diversidad y los nmeros se hacen ms comparables. "Honeyguides" son principalmente afrotropicales, (cuatro gneros y 15 especies) con penetracin al sur de Asia por un gnero (dos especies). Con exceptin del gnero de "honeyguide" (Indicator) que llega a Asia, todos los otros gneros de chaboclos, tucanes y "honeyguides" son endmicos de esas regiones. Los picidos de Africa tropical comprenden solamente seis gneros y de las 26 especies, 23 representan los tres gneros endmicos, dos de los cuales (Campethera, 10 especies, Dendropicos, 12 especies) muestran la nica radiacin de picidos en esa regin. En contraste en la regin neotropical hay 95 especies de picidos en 11 gneros, cuatro de los cuales son endmicos. Factores climaticos e histricos que afectaron la distributin de los bosques, pero ms particularmente de las zonas arbustivas; han jugado un rol importante en la radiacin de chaboclos, "honeyguides" y dos gneros de carpinteros del Africa tropical. Los propios "honeyguides" pueden haber infludo en la radiaci6n de los otros 2 grupos, en cuyos nidos desovan como aves parsitas. Sorpresivamente, pocos piciformes han entrado a los tropicos africanos desde afuera (slo el gnero Sasia de Asia y el Picoides de Eurasia) o partido de la regin (slo los dos "honeyguides," quizs un Jynx y probablemente el antecesor de Picodies). En los neotropicos las oportunidades de especiacidn han sido mayores, debido a los perodos de sequa y de humedad de la Amazonia y otras reas y la elevacin de los Andes y sus efectos biticos asociados. Tambin ha habido cierta inmigracin de picidos desde el norte hacia los neotrpicos. Picodies es definitivamente una forma del Viejo Mundo que primero ingreso a Amrica del Norte y luego a Sudamrica. Amrica Central y las Antillas han sido secundariamente importantes como centros de radiacin en la regin neotropical, con inmigracion de especies de Melanerpes, Colaptes y Campephilus hacia el neortico y de Dryocopus hacia el neortico, Eurasia y Sudasia y de manera remarcable Picumnus y Celeus hacia (o concebible pero no probable desde) Sudasia. Se discute la radiation en los gneros de estas familias. Al tratar de entender los patrones de radiacin se presentan bastantes problemas debido a la falta de datos sobre factores que pueden haber afectado dicha radiacin (fauna de insectos, depredadores no-picidos e inclusive competidores que no son aves). La reproductin parsita de los "honeyguides" en el Africa tropical y la usurpacin de huecos de anidacin de diversas aves del Africa tropical y los neotrpicos por aves, mamferos y otros animales pueden haber infludo en la radiacin de carpinteros, tanto como la competencia de los comedores en cortezas (esto puede ser ms serio en Africa tropical donde algunos de los chaboclos son posibles competidores). Es posible que los factores histricos mencionados anteriormente hayan tenido la mayor influencia en la naturaleza de, y diferencia en, los patrones de radiacin discernidos.
10.1525/om.2010.67.1.172|The 14 papers in this monograph represent the first broad-based evaluation of avian subspecies in decades and one of few, if any, multifaceted treatments of subspecies for any taxon. As such, there are multiple points of agreement and disagreement. Most authors consider the concept of subspecies a valid taxonomic category for units below the species level. All authors point to the need to reexamine taxa with modern methods to confirm their identity as subspecies. All authors also agree that the best approach to recognizing a subspecies is to include multiple characters (e.g., an mtDNA study alone will not suffice). However, issues regarding the reconciliation of data sets in which we expect evolutionary rates to differ, how various methods are implemented and compared, and the statistical analyses used have not been resolved. We conclude by calling for renewed interest in examining avian subspecies that have not had modern approaches applied to their classification. Each species evaluated will add to an improved understanding of avian diversity and its generation and will be a significant contribution to conservation.
10.2307/40168316|Twenty-two fish-eating predators on a Peruvian lake show differences in hunting technique, habitat use, prey sizes, and prey species. The swimming predators take mostly different prey species. Waders differ in their prey species and sizes, and in the habitats in which they hunt. Perchers and cruisers hunt from different heights and take prey of different sizes and species. Many of the same types of differences are evident between groups using different hunting techniques, although several species pairs have remarkably similar diets. /// Veintidos depredadores de peces en un lago de Per muestran diferencias en las tcnicas de pesca, uso del habitat, tamao y especies de las presas. Los depredadores nadadores, atrapan mayormente diferentes especies de presas. Las aves zancudas difieren en las especies y tamaos de las presas as como en los habitats en los cuales pescan. Aves que se posan para pescar ("perchers") y otras que recorren mucha distancia en su bsqueda por presas ("cruisers") pescan desde diferentes alturas y atrapan presas de diferentes tamaos y especies. Son evidentes muchas diferencias del mismo tipo entre grupos que usan distintas tcnicas de pesca, aunque varios pares de especies tienen dietas remarcablemente similares.
10.2307/40157533|Percnostola rufifrons jensoni, a new subspecies of Black-headed Antbird, is described from northeastern Peru on the north bank of the Amazon River east of its confluence with the Napo River. Comparison with the three other subspecies and the historical taxonomic treatment of formicariids suggests this complex consists of two pairs of subspecies that should be ranked as species, Percnostola rufifrons rufifrons + Percnostola rufifrons subcristata (= Percnostola rufifrons, the Black-headed Antbird, with two subspecies rufifrons and subcristata) and Percnostola rufifrons minor + Percnostola rufifrons jensoni (= Percnostola minor, the Amazonas Antbird, with two subspecies minor and jensoni). /// Percnostola rufifrons jensoni, una nueva subespecie de Hormiguero Cabecinegro, ha sido descrita desde el noreste del Per sobre el banco norte del Ro Amazonas al este de su confluencia con el Ro Napo. Comparaciones hechas con las otras tres subespecies, adems del tratamiento histrico del grupo de los formicridos, sugieren que este complejo consiste de dos pares de subespecies que deben ser jerrquizados como especies, Pernostola rufifrons rufifrons + Percnostola rufifrons subcristata (= Percnostola rufifrons, el Hormiguero Cabecinegro, con dos subespecies rufifrons y subcristata) y Percnostola rufifrons minor + Percnostola rufifrons jensoni (= Percnostola minor, el Hormiguero Amazonas, con dos subespecies minor y jensoni).
10.2307/40168315|This two-year study seeks to quantify the relations of the breeding, molt, and population movements of hummingbirds, with the flowering seasons of their foodplants, at La Montura, a site in premontane rain forest at 1000 m on the Caribbean slope of Costa Rica. The community comprises 22 hummingbird species (9-10 residents, 5-6 regular seasonal visitors, the rest rare to accidental), that collectively visit at least 70 species of plants, ca. 50 of which they pollinate. Patterns of flower visitation by the birds allow partitioning of the community into subcommunities, each with its own seasonal rhythm. These are: (a) Lancebill Subcommunity: the Green-fronted Lancebill (Doryfera ludovicae) and five species of large shrubby epiphytes, and probaby several bromeliads. Morphologically, the bird's long, slender, nearly straight bill and the flowers' correspondingly shaped corolla tubes characterize this subcommunity. The five principal foodplants bloomed in a nearly perfectly staggered sequence through the study period; breeding in D. ludovicae coincided with periods of greatest flower abundance, molt with intermediate flower availability, (b) Hermit Subcommunity: chiefly the Green Hermit (Phaethornis guy) with its long, decurved bill, and 19 understory and subcanopy flowers with correspondingly shaped corollas. Flower availability is high during breeding, peaks during the period of molt-breeding overlap, and declines during molt and quiescent periods; the species of Heliconia appear to supply critical nectar resources for breeding. P. guy's foodplants show staggered blooming sequences when the bird's breeding and nonbreeding periods are analyzed separately. Also included here is the White-tipped Sicklebill (Eutoxeres aquila), whose visits to the study area are linked to the blooming of a single foodplant. (c) Heliodoxa-Marcgravia Subcommunity: the Green-fronted Brilliant (Heliodoxa jacula) and three species of sphingid- or bat-pollinated Marcgravia, about which the bird's breeding and molting cycles appear to be organized. The three Marcgravia species bloom in a staggered sequence that is exploited by H. jacula, but this cannot reflect a coevolutionary relationship as the hummingbird is a nectar thief, (d) "Generalized" Subcommunity: various small- to medium-sized, straight-billed hummingbirds, and flowers with straight, short- to medium-length corollas. Sufficient overlap in flower visitation exists within this assemblage to preclude further subdivision. The principal hummingbird species (Lampornis hemileucus, Eupherusa nigriventris, Elvira cupreiceps) breed in close association with the blooming of a series of canopy epiphytes, mostly in the family Ericaceae. Many individuals of the latter two species, plus Colibri delphinae, emigrate following breeding and at least the start of molt; their places are taken by several species of post- breeding seasonal visitors from other elevations, which mostly exploit the flowers of the abundant understory treelet Cephaelis elata. Most La Montura hummingbirds breed from the mid- to late wet season, through the early dry season, roughly October through March, and molt from March through June, into the early rainy season. Males of many species molt one to two months ahead of females. The cycle of H. jacula is displaced one to two months earlier than those of most species, while that of P. guy is nearly the opposite: breeding April-September, molting July-November. Differences in seasonality in other humming-bird-flower communities reflect different climatic regimes and taxonomic affinities-e.g., in all areas Ericaceae bloom mainly in the wet season, Heliconia mostly June-August. The various hummingbird-flower communities in the wet forests of Costa Rica show similar divisions into subcommunities, given different species richnesses and taxonomic affinities. In dry forest and second growth, most or all species pertain to the generalized subcommunity. The relation between plant-pollinator interactions and flowering seasons is reassessed in the light of changing nectar demands of the birds due to breeding and molt. It is concluded that competition for pollinators may be an important selective force in the spacing of flowering seasons, but that its intensity varies according to the annual cycles of the pollinators, and cannot be assessed properly without taking the pollinators' biology into account. Finally, based on ecological and biogeographical evidence, it is argued that many (but by no means all) of the bird-flower interactions in the La Montura community represent true coevolved mutualisms. /// Este estudio de dos aos, pretende cuantificar la relacin de la reproduccin, muda y movimientos de poblaciones de colibres con las pocas de floracin de sus plantas alimenticias, en La Montura, un sitio de la selva lluviosa premontana a 1.000 m de altura en la ladera caribea costarricense. La comunidad est compuesta por 22 especies de colibres (9-10 residentes; 5-6 visitantes regulares estacionales y el resto raros o accidentales) que visitan en forma collectiva el menos 70 especies de plantas, de las cuales polinizan casi 50. Los patrones de las aves para visitar las flores, permiten dividir la comunidad en subcomunidades, cada una con su propio ritmo estacional. Estas son: a- Subco- munidad Pico de Lanza: el pico de lanza mayor (Doryfera ludovicae) y cinco especies de arbustos epfitos grandes y probablemente varias bromelias. Esta subcomunidad est caracterizada morfolgicamente por el pico largo fino y casi recto, que corresponde con la forma del tubo de las corolas de las flores. Las cinco plantas principales de alimentacin florecen en secuencia casi perfecta a lo largo del perodo de estudio; la temporada de reproduccin de D. ludovicae coincide con la gran abundancia de flores; la muda con disponibilidad intermedia de flores. b- Subcomunidad Ermitao: Comandada por el ermitao verde (Phaethornis guy) con su pico largo, curvado hacia abajo y 19 flores con sus corolas de forma similar del sotobosque ("understory") y del subdosel bajo las copas de los rboles ("subcanopy"). La disponibilidad de flores es alta durante la reproduccin, teniendo su pico mximo durante el perodo en que la muda y reproduccin se superponen, y declina durante la muda y los perodos de poca actividad ("quiescent"); las especies Heliconia parecen proveer recursos de nctar crticos para reproducir. Las plantas de las cuales se alimenta P. guy florecen en secuencia una tras otra cuando se analizan separadamente los perodos de reproduccin y no-reproduccin del ave. Tambin se incluye ac al Pico de hoz colioliva (Eutoxeres aquila) cuyas visitas al rea de estudio entuvieron relacionadas al florecimineto de una sola planta de alimentacin. c- Subcomunidad Heliodoxa-Marcgravia: el colibr jacula (Heliodoxa jacula) y tres especies de Marcgravia, polinizadas por polillas de la familia Sphingidae o murcilagos, sobre las cuales parece estar basado el ciclo de reproduccin y muda del ave. Las tres especies de Marcgravia florecen en una secuencia que es utilizada por H. jacula, pero esto no refleja una relacin de coevolucin, ya que el colibr es un Iadrn de nctar, d- Subcomunidad "Generalizada": varios picaflores de tamao pequeo a mediano, de pico recto y flores de corola recta corta o mediana. En este grupo existe suficiente superposicin en las visitas a las flores, lo cual imposibilita mayores subdivisiones. Las principales especies de picaflores (Lampornis hemileucus, Eupherusa nigriventris, Elvira cupreiceps) reproducen en asociacin ntima con una serie de epfitas de las copas de los rboles mayormente de la familia Ericaceae. Muchos individuos de estas dos ltimas especies, adems de Colibri delphinae emigran luego de la reproduccin o como mximo cuando comienza la muda; sus lugares son ocupados por varias especies de vistantes post-reproductivos de otras elevaciones, que mayormente utilizan las flores abundantes del arbolito Cephaelis elata, del nivel de vegetacin inferior. La mayora de los picaflores de La Montura reproducen desde la mitad o final de la estacin hmeda hasta el principio de la temporada seca, aproximadamente desde octubre hasta marzo y mudan desde marzo hasta junio, cuando comienza la estacin de las lluvias. Machos de muchas especies mudan uno o dos meses antes que las hembras. El ciclo de H. jacula est desplazado de uno a dos meses antes que el de la mayora de las especies, mientras que el de P. guy es casi lo opuesto: reproduce entre abril y septiembre y muda entre julio y noviembre. Las diferencias en las estaciones en otras comunidades de flores y picaflores refleja rgimenes climticos diferentes y afinidades taxonmicas por ejemplo en todas las reas las Ericceas florece mayormente en la estacin hmeda y Heliconia de junio a agosto. Las diversas comunidades de flores y picaflores en los bosques hmedos de Costa Rica muestran divisiones en subcomunidades similares, habiendo diferentes riquezas de especies y afinidades taxonmicas. En bosque seco y vegetacin secundaria, la mayora o todas las especies pertenecen a la subcomunidad generalizada. La relacin entre la interaccin planta-polinizador y temporada de floracin est reevaluada a la luz de los cambios en las demandas de nctar de las aves debido a la reproduccin y muda. Se concluye que la competencia por polinizadores puede ser una fuerza selectiva de importancia en la temporada de estaciones de floracin, pero cuya intensidad vara de acuerdo con el ciclo anual de los polinizadores, y no puede serpropiamente determinado sin tomar en cuenta la biologia de los polinizadores. Fi- nalmente basandose en evidencias ecol6gicas y biogeograficas, se discute que muchas (pero por cierto no todas) las interacciones ave-flor en la comunidad de La Montura representan verdaderos mutualismos coevolucionados.
10.2307/40168318|Reports of cooperative behavior among promiscuous species and cooperative performance of pre-nest reproductive activities such as mate attraction, courtship, and copulation are rare. Factors that influence the likelihood of helping behavior occurring in promiscuous species are considered. The occurrence of pre-nest helping behavior and factors that may have selected against its presence in most species and favored its evolution in the groups in which it is found are discussed. It is argued that help with pre-nest activities should be detrimental to both the helper and recipient in species with lasting pair bonds. /// Son raros los informes sobre comportamiento cooperativo entre especies promiscuas y sobre el desempeo cooperativo de actividades reproductivas pre-anidadoras, tales como atraccin de pareja, cortejo y copulacin. Se consideran los factores que influyen en la probabilidad de comportamiento de ayuda que se presenta en especies promiscuas. Se discute la presencia de comportamiento de ayuda pre-anidadora y los factores que pueden haber sido seleccionados en contra de su presencia en la mayora de las especies y los que pueden haber favorecido su evolucin en los grupos en que se presenta dicho comportamiento. Se discute que la ayuda en las actividades pre-anidadoras debe ser detrimente para ambos, el ayudante y el ayudado, en especies con vnculos de pareja perdurables.
10.2307/40168293|The genus Myiarchus is diagnosed on the basis of shared derived character states of two morphological complexes, the nasal capsule of the skull and the supporting elements of the syrinx, as well as by a shared derived pattern of nesting behavior. Equivocal species having "aberrant" external morphology (validus, magnirostris, semirufus, antillarum and sagrae) are reexamined with respect to this diagnosis, and their assignment to Myiarchus justified. Laniocera, Lipaugus, and Nesotriccus are examined and found to be unrelated to Myiarchus and inappropriately assigned to the subfamily Tyranninae, whereas Sirystes, Casiornis, Rhytipterna, and Deltarhynchus share with Myiarchus a derived character state of the nasal capsule, nest in tree-cavities, so far as is known, and are properly considered near relatives. An unsuspected near relative of Myiarchus, Ramphotrigon, formerly allied with the "flatbills," is found to share the same derived state of the nasal capsule and is now known to nest in tree-cavities. These latter six genera constitute the myiarchine assemblage within the subfamily Tyranninae. Two branches of myiarchine flycatchers are defined by differences in syringeal morphology and possibly by differences in the materials used to line the nest-cavities. Deltarhynchus and Ramphotrigon are each other's closest relative, share a unique syringeal morphology, and nest in tree-cavities not lined with fur and feathers. A second branch, consisting of Rhytipterna, Sirystes, Casiornis, and Myiarchus, share an equally unique syringeal morphology and, so far as is known, nest in tree-cavities lined with fur and feathers. Attila does not share the diagnostic characters of the myiarchine flycatchers but may be the sister group of that assemblage. /// El gnero Myiarchus se diagnostica sobre la base de patrones de caracteres derivados compartidos ("shared derived character states") de dos complejos morfolgicos, la cpsula nasal del crneo y los elementos de soporte de la siringe, as como tambin por un patrn derivado compartido de comportamiento de anidacin ("shared derived pattern of nesting behavior"). Se reexaminan especies ambiguas que poseen morfologa externa "aberrante" (validus, magnirostris, semirufus, antillarum y sagrae) con respecto a este diagnstico y se justifica la inclusin de estas especies en el gnero Myiarchus. Se examinaron Laniocera, Lipaugus y Nesotriccus y se encontr que no estn relacionados con Myiarchus as como que han sido asignados a la subfamilia Tyranninae indebidamente, mientras que Sirystes, Casiornis, Rhytipterna y Deltarhynchus comparten con Myiarchus un patrn de caracteres derivados ("derived character state") de las cpsulas nasales, por lo que se sabe, anidan en cavidades en los rboles y estn considerados apropiadamente como parientes cercanos. Ramphotrigon, un insospechado pariente cercano de Myiarchus, anteriormente asociado con los picos chatos (Tolmomyias spp. y Rhynchocyclus spp.), se encontr que comparte el mismo patrn derivado de cpsula nasal y ahora se sabe que anida en huecos en los rboles. Estos ltimos seis gneros constituyen el ensamble "myiarchine" dentro de la subfamilia Tyranninae. Dos ramas de atrapa moscas del grupo myiarchine son definidos por las diferencias en la morfologa de la siringe y posiblemente por las diferencias respecto a los materiales utilizados para forrar la cavidad donde anidan. Deltarhynchus y Ramphotrigon son los parientes ms cercanos para ambos, comparten una morfologa de siringe nica y anidan en cavidades de rboles que no estn forradas con piel o plumas. Una segunda rama compuesta por Rhytipterna, Sirystes, Casiornis y Myiarchus, comparten as mismo una morfologa de siringe nica, y por lo que se sabe, anidan en cavidades de rboles forradas con piel y plumas. Attila no comparte los caracteres diagnsticos de los atrapa moscas del grupo myiarchine, pero podra ser un grupo hermano ("sister group") de ese ensamble.
10.1525/om.2013.76.1.1|We used PCR and DNA sequencing to screen for haemosporidian parasites (
10.1525/om.2011.71.1.1|The encephalitic arthropod-borne viruses (arboviruses) can cause a variety of serious human and wildlife diseases, including eastern equine encephalomyelitis, western equine encephalomyelitis, St. Louis encephalitis, Japanese encephalitis, and West Nile neuroinvasive disease. Understanding how these pathogens are dispersed through the environment is important both in managing their health-related impact and in interpreting patterns of their genetic variability over wide areas. Because many arboviruses infect wild birds and can be amplified to a level that makes birds infectious to insect vectors, numerous workers have suggested that the movements of migratory birds represent a major way that these viruses can be transported on a local, continental, and intercontinental scale. Virus transport by birds can, in theory, explain the colonization of new geographic regions by arboviruses, why some arboviruses in widely separated areas are genetically similar, and how arboviruses annually recur in temperate latitudes following interrupted transmission during the winter months. The four scenarios in which a bird could transport an arbovirus include (1) a viremic bird moving while it maintains a viremia sufficient to infect an arthropod that feeds on it at a new locale; (2) a bird previously infected by an arbovirus maintaining a chronic, low-level virus infection that, perhaps because of the stresses associated with annual movement, recrudesces to produce a viremia high enough to infect an arthropod at a new locale or at a different time of year; (3) an infected bird moving and then directly transmitting the virus to other animals either by being preyed upon or scavenged or when other birds contact its saliva or feces; and (4) a bird transporting virus-infected arthropods that drop off at a new location. The idea that birds spread arboviruses is based largely on records of virus-positive birds of unknown movement status caught during the migration season, serological data showing that migrant birds were exposed to virus in the past, and indirect inferences about arbovirus movement based on patterns of genetic variation in viruses in different geographic locations. We review the direct and indirect evidence for these scenarios. Although there are a few records of migrant birds having moved arboviruses over long distances, we conclude that there is no strong empirical evidence that wild birds play a major role in the dispersal of these pathogens at the continental or intercontinental levels or that arboviruses routinely become established at new foci or are seasonally reintroduced into established foci as a result of transport by birds. Additional field and laboratory studies on how virus infection directly affects a bird's likelihood of moving are needed. Researchers interested in virus transport should focus on the extent to which birds move viruses locally and how local transport contributes to arbovirus dispersal more generally, whether virus-infected arthropod vectors disperse long distances, and the extent to which arboviruses are maintained at established foci through vertical transmission and overwintering by adult vectors. Unjustified assumptions that wild birds disperse pathogens could negatively affect the conservation of many migratory species throughout the world and cause public health resources to be diverted into ineffective ways to predict or prevent disease spread.
10.1525/om.2010.67.1.123|Many authors have criticized the use of subspecies, but most of this criticism has been directed at the inconsistent treatment of subspecies rather than the inutility of diagnosable populations. To assess the validity of a taxon, one must include in the analysis those characters used in the original diagnosis and remember that different character sets may lack geographic concordance. We examined morphometric variation using 3,027 specimens representing all five species and 30 subspecies in the woodcreeper genus
10.2307/40166809|The collection of papers in this Ornithological Monograph resulted from a symposium entitled "Ecology and Evolution of Host-Parasite Interactions and Cowbird Management," which the authors organized for the American Ornithologists' Union Annual Meeting in Urbana, Illinois, in 2003. The purpose of the symposium was to share knowledge and ideas among researchers and managers. The unifying theme focused on research that contributes to management of cowbirds and their hosts. The papers were selected because they deal with critical management issues: laws, efficacy of cowbird control, endangered hosts, landscape and landscape-use issues, and evolutionary implications. Cowbirds discussed include Brown-headed (Molothrus ater), Bronzed (M. aeneus), and Shiny cowbirds (M. bonariensis); hosts discussed include Yellow-shouldered Blackbird (Agelaius xanthomus), Least Bell's Vireo (Vireo bellii pusillus), Southwestern Willow Flycatcher (Empidonax traillii extimus), Black-capped Vireo (Vireo atricapilla), and Kirtland's Warbler (Dendroica kirtlandii). Each chapter also highlights the need for future research. /// El conjunto de trabajos de este Ornithological Monograph es el resultado de un simposio titulado "Ecologa y Evolucin de las interacciones Hospedero-parsito de cra y Manejo de los Molothrus spp. parsitos." que fue organizado por los autores durante el Congreso Anual de la "American Ornithologists' Union" en Urbana, Illinois durante el ao 2003. El propsito de este simposio fue que los investigadores y los responsables de las prcticas de manejo pudieran compartir sus conocimientos e ideas. El tema unificador se centr en aquellas investigaciones que contribuyeran al manejo de los tordos parsitos y sus hospederos. Los trabajos fueron seleccionados en base a que trataran cuestiones crticas de manejo: leyes, eficacia en el control de los tordos parsitos, hospederos en peligro, cuestiones a nivel paisaje y uso del ambiente, e implicancias evolutivas. Los trabajos incluyeron a los parsitos Molothrus ater, M. aeneus, y M. bonariensis, as como a los hospederos Agelaius xanthomus, Vireo belli pusillus, Empidonax traillii extimus, Vireo atricapilla, y Dendroica kirtlandii. Adems, cada captulo resalta la necesidad de futuras investigaciones.
10.2307/40157530|An undescribed population of antbirds in the Cercomacra tyranninalnigrescens complex that is sympatric with Cercomacra tyrannina was discovered north of Manaus, Brazil. The new population differs from Cercomacra tyrannina in plumage, certain mensural characters, and especially voice. Based on similarity of the song, the undescribed form from Manaus is considered conspecific with Cercomacra tyrannina laeta. However, because of the sympatry of the Manaus population with Cercomacra tyrannina, laeta must be elevated to full species level, with three subspecies: Cercomacra laeta laeta in extreme southeastern Amazonia; C. laeta sabinoi in northeastern Brazil; and a new subspecies described in this paper, known only from the vicinity of Manaus and eastern Roraima, approximately 650 km north Manaus. The population of Cercomacra tyrannina north of the Amazon River and west of the Rio Negro, formerly assigned to Cercomacra tyrannina laeta, is shown to be allied with Cercomacra tyrannina rather than Cercomacra laeta. In this paper, we recognize a valid species and subspecies from two areas whose avifaunas are among the best known in tropical South America. The cryptic species, Cercomacra laeta, was already represented by many dozens of specimens in museum collections. Our findings demonstrate that the accurate cataloging of the planet's biodiversity will rely not only on expeditions to remote mountain valleys but also on a careful analysis of specimens and information already at our disposal. /// Uma populao ainda no descrita do complexo Cercomacra tyranninal nigrescens foi descoberta em simpatria com C. tyrannina ao norte de Manaus, Brasil. Esta nova populao difere de Cercomacra tyrannina pela plumagem, certas medidas, e sobretudo por suas vocalizaes. De acordo com as similaridades apresentadas por este ltimo carater, a forma no descrita de Manaus foi considerada coespecfica com Cercomacra tyrannina laeta. Em virtude dessa simpatria com Cercomacra tyrannina, laeta deve ser elevada ao nvel de espcie, estando composta de trs subespcies, a saber: Cercomacra laeta laeta do sudeste extremo da Amaznia, C. laeta sabinoi do nordeste do Brasil, e uma subespcie nova, descrita neste trabalho, conhecida apenas dos arredores de Manaus e leste de Roraima, cerca de 650 km ao norte de Manaus. A populao de Cercomacra tyrannina encontrada ao norte do Rio Solimes e oeste do Rio Negro, anteriormente atribuida  Cercomacra tyrannina laeta, na verdade revelou-se mais relacionada  Cercomacra tyrannina que Cercomacra laeta. A espcie revalidada no presente trabalho pertence a avifauna de duas reas sul-americanas relativamente bem trabalhadas desde o ponto de vista ornitolgico, estando representada em colees por vrias dzias de espcimens. Esta constatao demonstra que a precisa catalogao da biodiversidade mundial depende no apenas de expedies a lugares remotos, mas tambm de uma anlise detalhada das informaes e exemplars j disponveis.
10.2307/40168314|The avian community composition, and foraging behavior and social organization of birds of two humid forest sites near timberline in the Bolivian Andes were studied and compared to the same features of montane communities in other regions, particularly New Hampshire. Most of the difference in species richness between the tropical and temperate latitude sites can be explained by the addition of "tropical" resources not specially used by, or unavailable to, temperate birds, i.e., fruit, nectar, epiphytic vegetation, and bamboo thickets. When Andean species using these resources are eliminated, the overall species richness between the two regions is very similar, as are other community characteristics, such as use of foraging strata of different heights. The foraging maneuvers used by Andean birds are also discussed in detail. Almost 50 percent of the Andean species are regular participants in mixed-species flocks. In this respect, as well as with regard to the finer categories of social organization, the Andean community is very similar to one in montane Costa Rica but differs in important ways from others in Venezuela and New Hampshire. /// Se estudi la composicin de la comunidad avcola y los comportamientos de forraje y organizacin social de aves en dos sitios de bsques hmedos cercanos al lmite superior boscoso ("timberline") en los Andes bolivianos y se los compar con los de otras comunidades montaosas similares en otras regiones, particularmente en Nueva Hampshire, E.E.U.U. La mayora de las diferencias en la riqueza de especies entre las reas de latitudes templadas y tropicales se pueden explicar por la presencia de recursos "tropicales" adicionales no especialmente usados o fuera del alcance de las aves de regiones templadas (por ej. frutas, nctar, vegetacin epfita y caaverales). Cuando se eliminan las especies andinas que usan esos recursos Is riqueza total de especies entre las dos regiones es muy similar, as como lo son otras caractersticas de la comunidad tales como el uso de estratos de forraje de deferentes alturas. Tambin se discuten en detalle las maniobras de forraje usadas por las especies andinas. Casi el 50% de las especies andinas participan de las bandadas de varias especies de manera regular. En este aspecto, as como con respecto a las categoras mas detalladas de organizacin social, la comunidad andina es muy similar a una en montaas costarricences, pero diferente en aspectos importantes de otras en Venezuela y Nueva Hampshire, en el noreste de E.E.U.U.
10.2307/40168301|The small size of clutches of tropical species of birds when compared with clutch sizes of related species at higher latitudes has been known for a long time. Several contending theories and their variations have been proposed. The most prominent suggest that clutch size is determined by the amount of energy available to the parents for reproduction. Others propose that reproduction is adjusted to the mortality rate, small clutches occurring in populations whose members are favored with long life expectancies. The theory supported in this paper was first proposed by R. E. Moreau. It states that individuals may produce more offspring in a season or in a lifetime by reducing the number of chicks in a brood relative to the maximum number of young that could be reared under prevailing conditions. The parents of larger broods have shorter life expectancies and, thus, produce fewer broods and, in the long run, fewer young. The development of these and several other minor hypotheses is reviewed, and the theories are evaluated with respect to the data and arguments offered in their support. My version of Moreau's theory is most fully discussed and is applied to single-brooded species with clutch sizes that vary geographically (e.g., phasianids), single-brooded species without geographic variation (e.g., procellariiforms), multibrooded species with geographic variation (e.g., many passerine species), and multibrooded species without geographic variation (e.g., doves and hummingbirds). The patterns of variation in these groups are consistent with Moreau's theory, although available information is scanty, especially with regard to the life expectancies of birds and to the number of broods produced in a breeding season. The theory seems to offer explanations for several lingering problems: (a) Ricklefs' observation that clutch size variation is surprisingly similar among species having widely different foraging behaviors and occupying habitats varying as much as 10-fold in productivity, (b) the similarity in clutch sizes in species with uniparental care and related species with biparental care, (c) the greater clutch sizes at higher latitudes of populations of nocturnal species, and (d) the evolution of populations whose clutch sizes are contrary to the general trend. The theoretical argument suggests that patterns of clutch size variation cannot be understood without considering differences in survivorship schedules, ages of first and last reproduction, and the number of broods reared by parents during the breeding season. The need for research on these life history parameters is urged. /// Por largo tiempo se ha sabido que las nidadas ("clutch") de las especies de aves tropicales son ms pequea que las nidadas de las especies relacionadas de latitudes ms elevadas. Se han propuesto varias teoras opuestas y sus variaciones. La teora ms destacada sugiere que el tamao de la nidida est determinado por la cantidad de energa de la cual podrn disponer los padres para reprodicir. Otros proponen que la reproduccin se ajusta a la tasa de mortalidad, por lo que se dan "clutches" pequeos en poblaciones cuyos individuos tienen una expectatin de vida larga. La teora sostenida en este trabajo fue primero propuesta por R. E. Moreau. Segn esta teora los individuos podrn producir ms descendientes en una temporada de reproduccin o durante su vida, si reducen el nmero de polluelos en la nidada en relatin con el nmero mximo de polluelos que podrn ser criados bajo las condiciones reinantes. Los padres de nidadas ms grandes tendrn expectativas de vida ms corta y por ende producirn menos nidadas y a largo plazo menos polluelos. Se revee el desarrollo de estas y otras varias hiptesis menores y se evaluan las teoras en relacin a los datos y argumentos ofrecidos para su demostracin. Mi versin de la teora de Moreau es discutida ms detalladamente y es aplicada a una especie que produce una sola nidada estacional y en la que el tomao del "clutch" vara de acuerdo con su ubicacin geogrfica (por ej. phasianids), una especie que produce una sola nidada por temporada y no presenta variacin geogrficas (por ej. procellariiforms), una especie que produce mutliples nidadas por temporada con variaciones geogrficas (por ej. muchas especies de passeriformes) y una especie connidadas mltiples durante la estacin sin variacin geogrfica (por ej. palomas y colibres). Los patrones de variacin de estos grupos son consistentes con la teora de Moreau, si bin la informacin disponible es escasa, especialmente en lo que se refiere a espectativas de duracin de vida y el nmero de nidadas producidas durante una temporada reproductiva. La teora parece ofrecer explacaciones para varios problemas que existen desde hace bastante tiempo: (a) la observacin de Ricklefs en la que la variacin en el tamao de los "clutches" es, sorprendentemente, constante entre especies que tienen patrones de forraje ampliamente diferentes y ocupan habitats que varan hasta 10 veces en productividad; (b) la similaridad en el tamao de los "clutches" en aquellas especies en que slo uno de los padres cra los polluelos y especies relacionadas en las que ambos padres se encargan de la cra de los polluelos; (c) el mayor tamao en los "clutches" en especies de hbitos nocturnos en poblaciones de latitudes ms elevadas y (d) evolucin de poblaciones en las que los tamaos de los "clutches" son contrarios a las normas generales. Los argumentos tericos sugieren que los modelos de variacin en el tamao de los "clutches" no pueden ser entendidos sin considerar las diferencias en niveles de sobrevivencia, edad en la primera y ltima reproduccin y el nmero de nidadas criadas por los padres durante la temporada reproductiva. Se recomienda que se investiguen esos parmetros en la historia de vida.
10.2307/40157542|Current efforts to study and conserve Neotropical birds suffer from imprecise delineations of their geographic distributions. By coding geographic data to small sectors, the geographic information system described in this paper provides fine-grained computer mapping of avian ranges that portrays distributions clearly without sacrificing important information such as which side of a river a taxon has been found. The sector approach also supports graphical and statistical analyses that relate the distribution of taxa to one another and to other geographically variable factors such as climate and habitat. /// Esforos atuais em estudo e conservao de aves Neotropicais sofrem com o impreciso delineamento de suas distribuies geogrficas. O sistema de informaes geogrficas descrito neste artigo, atravs da codificao de dados geogrficos em pequenos setores, fornece recursos para mapeamento informatizado de alta definio das distribuies de aves, que as retratem claramente sem prejuzo de informaes importantes, tais como qual margem do rio tern sido o txon encontrado. A abordagem em setores favorece ainda anlises grficas e estatsticas que relacionam a distribuio entre os txons e entre estes e fatores variveis geograficamente, como clima e hbitat.
10.2307/40166825|Influenza A viruses are naturally reservoired in wild bird populations, in which they generally exist as low-pathogenic subtypes. Historically, concern about avian influenza virus (AIV) in wild birds is related to its potential effects on agriculture and human health, and not to health issues of wild bird populations. Several subtypes (primarily H5 and H7) have caused severe outbreaks of disease in domestic bird populations. In some cases, genetic and spatial temporal analyses suggest that these high-pathogenic subtypes may originate in wild bird populations that transmit low-pathogenic forms to domestic birds; after passage in domestic birds, the low-pathogenic subtypes convert to high-pathogenic subtypes. These observations suggest that monitoring AIV activity in wild bird populations, especially waterfowl, may improve risk assessment for poultry producers. Other cases, as exemplified by recent outbreaks of H5N1, suggest that the highly pathogenic subtypes have spilled over into wild populations from domestic production and live-bird markets in Asia. The risk paths (i.e. how the virus gets from waterfowl to domestic birds or vice versa) are not well understood and should be the subject of further research. The number of outbreaks of high-pathogenic AIV is increasing, as is the number of domestic birds that are culled in efforts to contain the spread of infection. These efforts have enormous economic implications. Surveillance has been focused on domestic production of these species. The role of the natural disease ecology of feral swine and quail in generation of avian and human reassortants has not been investigated, but is an area of concern. Direct transmission from birds to humans or other mammals is also possible, as evidenced by human infections caused by H9N2. Because the H5N1 subtype has become endemic to Southeast Asia, and because the human population is immunologically naive, the concern of a pandemic is increased. Although there is little anyone can do about the natural reservoir of AIV in birds, increased information about how the viruses are maintained, transmitted, and moved across the landscape in nature would provide valuable information about agricultural and human-health risk assessment. Received 5 August 2005, accepted 8 January 2006. /// Los virus de la influenza A se encuentran de manera natural en las poblaciones de aves silvestres, donde por lo general se encuentran como subtipos de baja patognesis. Anteriormente, la preocupacin sobre el virus de la influenza avcola (VIA) en aves silvestres, estaba relacionada con los efectos potenciales en la agricultura y en la salud humana, y no en asuntos sobre la salud de las poblaciones de aves silvestres. Algunos subtipos, especialmente H5 y H7, han causado severos brotes en poblaciones de aves domsticas. En algunos casos, anlisis genticos y de espacio-tiempo han sugerido que estos subtipos altamente patgenos pudieron haberse originado en poblaciones de aves silvestres que transmitieron formas de baja patognesis a aves domesticas; y al suceder esto, los subtipos de baja patognesis se convirtieron en subtipos de alta patognesis. Estas observaciones sugieren que el monitoreo de VIA en aves silvestres, especialmente aves acuticas, podra mejorar las evaluaciones de riesgo para los productores de aves de corral. En otros casos, como por ejemplo los recientes brotes de H5N1, sugieren que los subtipos altamente patgenos han sido transmitidos a las aves silvestres a travs de las aves de corral y la comercializacin deanes vivas en los mercados de Asia. Las vas de contagio (por ejemplo, la forma en que el virus pasa de las aves acuticas a las aves domesticas o viceversa) continan sin entenderse y deben ser sujetas a futuras investigaciones. El nmero de brotes de VIA altamente patgenos ha ido en aumento, al igual que el numero de aves domesticas que son seleccionadas con la intencin de detectar la infeccin. Estas selecciones tienen grandes consecuencias econmicas. La vigilancia se ha enfocado en la produccin domestica de estas especies de aves. El papel ecolgico de enfermedades naturales en puercos salvajes y en codornices en generaciones de recombinantes avcolas y humanos no ha sido investigado, pero es un tema de importancia. La transmisin directa de aves a humanos u otros mamferos tambin es posible, como lo demuestran las infecciones humanas causadas por H9N2. Debido a que el subtipo H5N1 se ha vuelto endmico del sureste de Asia, y dado que la poblacon humana es vulnerable inmunologicamente, la preocupacin de una pandemia es mayor. Aunque es poco lo que se puede hacer con respecto al hospedero natural de VIA en aves, el aumento de la informacin, en cuanto como los virus son mantenidos, transmitidos y desplazados a travs de el ambiente natural, proveer informacin valiosa sobre las evaluaciones de riesgo de la salud humana y de la agricultura.
10.2307/40168312|Two kinds of permanent, multi-species flocks inhabit the lowland forest of Amazonian Peru, canopy and understory flocks. Each flock type has a core composed of 5 to 10 different species of largely insectivorous birds, and each species is represented by a single bird, a mated pair, or a family group. Besides these core species, the flocks are joined by individuals of an additional 80 species with varying degrees of regularity. Since 1976, color-marking and long-term following of hundreds of individuals of flock species has demonstrated that the individuals of the core species generally spend their entire lives in one flock. Species that have higher population densities than the core species enter and leave flocks as flocks pass through their territories, whereas species with lower population densities than the core species alternate between several flocks on a daily or hourly basis. Based on 1500 h and 250 h of following individually-recognizable understory flocks and canopy flocks, respectively, I present territory maps for the 25 understory and seven canopy flocks occurring on a 1.8 km study plot. I also present population density estimates for 78 flock species and detail their use of the 32 different study flocks. The population density estimates for some understory flock species are several times lower than Karr's (1971) estimates for the same species in Panama. Density compensation is hypothesized to explain this difference. /// Dos tipos de bandadas permanentes compuestas por varias especies conjuntas habitan las zonas bajas del bosque amaznico peruano, las bandadas que viven en las copas de los arboles ("canopy) y las que estn en la vegetacin inferior ("understory"). Cada tipo de bandada tiene un componente basico ("core") que vara entre 5 o 10 especies diferentes, mayormente aves insectvoras y cada especies est representada por: n unico individuo, una pareja o un grupo familiar. Ademas del "core" se unen a la bandada, con varios grado de regularidad, individuos de 80 especies adicionales. Desde 1976, por medio de marcacin con colores y seguimientos por largos perodos de cientos de individuos de especies participantes en bandadas, se ha demostrado que los individuos de las especies del "core" pasan generalmente todas sus vidas en una sola bandada. Especies que tienen una mayor densidad de poblacin que las especies del "core" entran y salen de las bandadas a medida que estas pasan por sus territorios, mientras que aquellas especies cuya densidad es menor que la de las especies del "core" de la bandada alternan entre diversas bandadas en base a un patrn horario o diario. Presento mapas de los territorios para 25 bandadas de vegetacin inferior y 7 bandadas de las copas de los rboles que se presentaron en el rea de estudio de 1,8 km, basandome en 1500 h y 250 h de seguimientos de bandadas de vegetacin inferior y de las copas de los rboles respectivamente, que eran reconocibles individualmente. Tambin presento estimaciones de la densidad de poblacin de 78 especies de bandadas y detallo su presencia en las 32 diferentes bandadas estudiadas. Las estimaciones de densidad de poblacin para algunas especies de bandadas de la vegetacin inferior son varias veces menores que las estimaciones que brindase Karr (1971) para las mismas especies en Panam. Para explicar estas diferencias se sugieren compensaciones de densidad.
10.2307/40166812|In 1988 at Fort Hood, Texas, after high parasitism (up to 91%) of the endangered Black-capped Vireo (Vireo atricapilla) by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) and associated low nest success (<5%), a cowbird control program was implemented. We review and re-assess data related to that program and provide an update on control efforts. Initial control efforts were beneficial but limited. With onset of more intensive control efforts in 1991, parasitism fell below 20%, and Black-capped Vireo nest success rose above 20%. Number of Black-capped Vireo pairs within three study areas at Fort Hood also increased over time. Parasitism and Black-capped Vireo nest success varied with management (i.e. different combinations of trapping, shooting, and cattle grazing) across regions of Fort Hood, but generally decreased and increased, respectively, over time. Because removal techniques were applied simultaneously, it is difficult to determine the magnitude of effect that individual techniques had on parasitism and Black-capped Vireo nest success. A reduction in cattle stocking rate on the East Range of Fort Hood appeared to reduce parasitism during 1997-1998. However, an earlier cattle removal on West Fort Hood had no apparent effect on parasitism. We attribute reductions in parasitism on West Fort Hood primarily to shooting, because trapping efforts there have been minimal. Fort Hood currently meets both local and regional recovery goals for the Black-capped Vireo. We attribute success in meeting those goals primarily to cowbird control. /// En 1988 en Fort Hood, Texas luego de detectar un alto parasitismo (ms del 91%) de Vireo atricapilla por parte de Molothrus ater asociado a un bajo exito de nidificacin (<5%), se aplic un programa de control de Molothus ater. Aqu revisamos y reevaluamos los datos relativos a aquel programa y proveemos una actualizatin sobre la eficacia del control. La eficacia de control inicial fue benfica pero limitada. Con el inicio de esfuerzos de control ms intensos en 1991, el parasitismo cay por debajo del 20%, y el xito de nidificacin de Vireo atricapilla se elev a ms del 20 %. El nmero de parejas de Vireo atricapilla en tres sitios de estudio dentro de Fort Hood tambin se increment a lo largo del tiempo. Tanto el parasitismo como el xito de nidificacin de Vireo atricapilla variaron con el tipo de manejo (e.j. diferentes combinaciones de trampeo, caza con armas de fuego, y pastoreo de ganado) entre regiones de Fort Hood. En general, el parasitismo disminuy y el xito de nidificacin se increment a lo largo del tiempo. Debido a que las tcnicas de remocin de Molothrus ater fueron aplicadas simultneamente, es difcil determinar la magnitud del efecto individual de cada una sobre las tasas de parasitismo y el xito de nidificacin de Vireo. atricapilla. Una reduccin en la carga ganadera en el rango este de Fort Hood aparentemente redujo el parasitismo durante 1997-1998. Sin embargo, una remocin de ganado ms temprana en el oeste de Fort Wood no tuvo efecto aparente sobre el parasitismo. Nosotros atribuimos las reducciones en parasitismo en el este de Fort Wood primariamente a la caza con armas de fuego, ya que el esfuerzo de trampeo en dicha rea fue mnimo. Fort Hood actualmente cumple tanto con las metas locales y regionales de recuperatin de Vireo atricapilla. Nosostros consideramos que el xito logrado en el cumplimento de dichas metas es debido principalmente al control de Molothrus ater.
10.2307/40157535|The birds of the Fazendas Dimona, Porto Alegre, and Esteio, and adjacent areas, ca. 80 km north of Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil, have been intensively studied since 1979. Stotz and Bierregaard (1989) published a list of 352 species, based on seven years of study. Here we modify that list based on an additional eight years of work at the same sites. We add 49 species, revise the identification of four species, and remove seven species, for a total of 394 species. We also list 12 additional species as "hypothetical," requiring further substantiation, and revise the status of numerous species. Additions include 22 species believed to have been overlooked previously, 15 species believed to have colonized the area recently in response to anthropogenic change, and 12 species that are probably vagrants from habitats not well represented in the study area. Status revisions reflect an increase in availability and diversity of secondary habitats or better knowledge of vocalizations of birds that are much more commonly heard than seen. Specimens indicate that Campylorhamphus procurvoides and Hemitriccus zosterops, not C. trochilirostris and H. minor, are present at the site. We also present evidence that Hemitriccus z. zosterops and H. z. griseipectus are distinct species, and we report the first Brazilian records (including specimens) of Phylloscartes virescens. Comparison with the avifauna of two well-studied sites in Amazonian Peru, Manu National Park and Tambopata Reserve, reveals similar species richness in the terra firme forest component of all three sites. The difference in richness between the sites is because of the variety of habitat types present at each. We suggest that habitat heterogeneity, not primary productivity or rainfall as have been proposed elsewhere, is the major determinant of patterns in bird species richness within Amazonia. /// As aves das fazendas Dimona, Porto Alegre, e Esteio, e das reas adjacentes, a cerca de 80 km ao norte de Manaus, Amazonas, Brasil, foram estudadas intensivamente desde 1979. Stotz e Bierregaard (1989) publicaram uma lista com 352 espcies, baseada em sete anos de estudo. Modificamos essa lista a partir de mais oito anos trabalhando nas mesmas reas. Acrescentamos 49 espcies, corrigimos a identificao de quatro, e removemos sete, resultando num total de 394 espcies. Tambm listamos doze espcies adicionais como "hipotticas," que necessitam maiores evidncias de sua ocorrncia, e revisamos o status de vrias espcies. Adies incluem 22 espcies provavelmente negligenciadas anteriormente, 15 espcies que acreditamos terem colonizado a rea recentemente em resposta a mudanas antropognicas, e 12 espcies que provavelmente so visitantes irregulares de ambientes pouco representados na rea de estudo. As revises de status refletem urn aumento na disponibilidade e diversidade de vegetao secundria e um maior conhecimento das vocalizaes de aves que so muito mais comumente ouvidas do que vistas. Espcimes indicam a presena na rea de estudo de Campylorhamphus procurvoides e Hemitriccus zosterops, em vez de C. trochilirostris e H. minor. Tambm apresentamos evidncia de que Hemitriccus z. zosterops e H. z. griseipectus so espcies distintas, e confirmamos com exemplares o primeiro registro de Phylloscartes virescens para o Brasil. A comparao desta avifauna com a de duas reas igualmente bem conhecidas na Amaznia peruana, o Parque Nacional de Manu e a Reserva Tambopata, revela uma riqueza de espcies semelhante nas reas de floresta de terra firme dos tres locais. A maior riqueza total nas reas peruanas  devido  maior variedade de tipos de hbitats presentes. Sugerimos que a heterogeneidade de habitats  o maior fator determinante de padres de riqueza de espcies de aves dentro da Amaznia, em vez da produtividade primria ou pluviosidade propostas anteriormente.
10.2307/40168296|During the past century the classifications of the suboscine passerine birds have included the following groups, as in Wetmore (1960): Superfamily Furnarioidea- Dendrocolaptidae, Furnariidae, Formicariidae, Conopophagidae, Rhinocryptidae; and Superfamily Tyrannoidea-Cotingidae, Pipridae, Tyrannidae, Oxyruncidae, Phytotomidae, Pittidae, Acanthisittidae, Philepittidae. DNA-DNA hybridization data and congruent morphological characters show that a revision of this arrangement is indicated, as follows: (1) Woodcreepers (Dendrocolaptinae) and ovenbirds (Furnariinae) are subfamilies of the Furnariidae. (2) The Formicariidae of Wetmore (1960) is a diphyletic assemblage divisible into ground antbirds (Formicariidae), which are closely related to the gnateaters (Conopophagidae) and tapaculos (Rhinocryptidae), and typical antbirds (Thamnophilidae), which diverged from the lineage leading to the furnariids, formicariids, conopophagids, and rhinocryptids before these groups diverged from one another. (3) The Tyrannoidea includes only the New World taxa of Wetmore (1960). Pittidae is the sister group of the Eurylaimidae, and the New Zealand wrens (Acanthisittidae) are descendants of the oldest known branch in the suboscine phylogeny (Sibley et al. 1982). Affinities of the Philepittidae are uncertain, but the family is presumed to belong to the Old World suboscine infraorder Eurylaimides. (4) The Tyrannidae of Wetmore (1960) is divided into the Mionectidae, which consists of several genera previously thought to be tyrannids, and the Tyrannidae, which includes the Tyranninae, Tityrinae, Cotinginae, and Piprinae. (5) The Tyranninae includes most of the genera of tyrant flycatchers. (6) The Tityrinae (becards, tityras, Schiffornis) is the sister group of the Tyranninae. (7) The Cotinginae includes the cotingas, plantcutters (Phytotoma), and the Sharpbill (Oxyruncus) (Sibley et al. 1 984). (8) The Piprinae includes the manakins, except Schiffornis which, tentatively, is the descendant of an early branch from the tityrine lineage. /// Durante el siglo pasado la clasificacin de aves passeriformes suboscines ha includo, tal como aparece en Wetmore (1960), los siguientes grupos: Superfamilia Furnarioidea-Dendrocolaptidae, Furnariidae, Formicariidae, Conopophagidae, Rhinocryptidae; y Superfamilia Tyrannoidea-Cotingidae, Pipridae, Tyrannidae, Oxyruncidae, Phytotomidae, Pittidae, Acanthisittidae, Philepittidae. Datos de hibridacin de ADN-ADN y caracteres morfolgicos congruentes muestran que sera necesaria una revisin de este arreglo de la siguiente manera: (1) Los trepadores (Dendrocolaptinae) y horneros (Furnariinae) son subfamilias de los Furnariidae. (2) El Formicariidae de Wetmore (1960) es una union de dos filos ("diphyletic") divisible entre los hormigueros terrestres (Formicariidae), (que estn cercanamente relacionados con las perlitas (Conopophagidae) y los tapaculos (Rhinocryptidae) y tpicos hormigueros (Thamnophilidae) que se apartaron del linaje que form a los furnariidos, formicariidos, conopophagidos y rhinocryptidos, antes de que esos grupos se separasen entre si. (3) El Tyrannoidea incluye nicamente la taxa de Wetmore (1960) para el Nuevo Mundo. Pittidae es el grupo hermano ("sister group") de los Eurylaimidae, y los salta paredes (Acanthisittidae) de Nueva Zelanda son descendientes de la rama ms antigua conocida en la filogena de los suboscines (Sibley et al. 1982). Son inciertas las afinidades de los Philepittidae, pero se presume que la familia pertenece al infraorden suboscine Eurylaimides del Viejo Mundo. (4) El Tyrannidae de Wetmore (1960) se divide en Mionectidae, formado por varios gneros previamente considerados como tyrannidos y la Tyrannidae, que incluye Tyranninae, Tityrinae, Cotinginae y Piprinae. (5) El Tyranninae incluye a la mayora de los gneros de atrapa moscas tiranos. (6) El Tityrinae (cabezones, rechinadores, Schiffornis) es el grupo hermano del Tyranninae. (7) El Cotinginae incluye las cotingas, los cortaplantas (Phytotoma), y los picoafilados (Oxyruncus) (Sibley et al. 1984). (8) El Piprinae incluye las matracas, excepto Schiffornis, el cual es considerado tentativamente descendiente de una rama ms antigua del linaje de los tityrines.
10.2307/40157549|The Tapajs National Park in central Brazilian Amazonia is one of the world's largest tropical rainforest reserves. Studies of the region's avifauna began almost 90 years ago, when Emilie Snethlage made collections at Vila Braga and Ilha de Goyana. More than 2,000 bird specimens have been collected in the region; important observational studies have also been carried out, in particular in the last two decades. This paper presents a summary of the relevant collections at the Museu Paraense Emlio Goeldi (Belm, Brazil), Carnegie Museum (Pittburgh, USA), and Museu de Zoologia da Universidade de So Paulo (So Paulo, Brazil), and of observations made by T. A. Parker, III, T. S. Schulenberg, H. Sick, and D. C. Oren in visits to the Park. The number of bird species recorded totals 448 for the region and 387 for the park. With 19 species of Dendrocolaptidae, the park has more woodcreeper species than any other Neotropical site. /// O Parque Nacional do Tapajs, localizado na parte central da Amaznia brasileira,  uma das maiores reservas de floresta tropical do mundo. Estudos da avifauna da regio se iniciaram h quase 90 anos, quando Emilie Snethlage coletou espcimes ornitolgicos em Vila Braga e na ilha de Goyana. No total, mais de 2000 espcimes de aves foram coletados na regio; foram elaborados tambm estudos baseados em observaes, especialmente durante as ltimas duas dcadas. O presente trabalho apresenta um compndio dos dados das colees relevantes do Museu Paraense Emlio Goeldi (Belm, Brasil), Carnegie Museum (Pittsburgh, EUA), e Museu de Zoologia da Universidade de So Paulo (So Paulo, Brasil), bem como observaes de T. A. Parker, III, T. S. Schulenberg, H. Sick e D. C. Oren durante visitas ao parque. O nmero de espcies de aves registrado na regio totaliza 448, sendo 387 para o parque. Com 19 espcies de dendrocolaptdeos, o parque sustenta a fauna mais rica de arapaus conhecida no Neotrpico.
10.1525/om.2011.70.1.95|The breeding avifauna of northern Myanmar is extremely poorly known, largely because of unfavorable rainy-season conditions. Previous breeding-season surveys in this high-biodiversity region are lacking, and very few voucher specimens document breeding altitudes and periods. During June to July 2006, we conducted mist-netting, visual, and auditory surveys of the sub-Himalayan avifauna in Putao District, northern Myanmar. A total of 138 species were definitely recorded. Because of the preliminary nature of the surveys, only specific records and general patterns are discussed here. We netted juveniles of two species (
10.2307/40166707|Eleven previously unidentified fossil avifaunas from Pliocene and Pleistocene localities in the Florida peninsula are presented, within which are included the description of a new species of anhinga (Anhinga beckeri), woodcock (Scolopax hutchensi), and pygmy-owl (Glaucidium explorator), and a new genus and species of condor (Aizenogyps toomeyae). The paleospecies Milvago readei, Dorypaltus prosphatus, and Protocitta dixi are considered to be synonymous with the living taxa Milvago chimachima, Vanellus chilensis, and Pica pica, respectively. These 11 avifaunas supplement the existing record of fossil birds from Florida that collectively provide a unique chronology of originations and extinctions of 239 extinct and extant taxa during a climatically dynamic period that began approximately 2.5 million years ago (Ma). Topographic and bathymetric maps of the peninsula are used with Geographic Information Systems software to model and correlate sea-level changes with the location and age of major fossil sites, the avian chronology, and presumed primary habitat of each represented taxon. These analyses indicate range expansions of Neotropical, western North American, and continental forest birds into the Florida peninsula during glacial stages, and the isolation, extirpation, or extinction of many of these taxa during interglacial stages. The relatively rapid climatic cycles of the Plio-Pleistocene, combined with the low topography of the peninsula, caused significant loss of wetland habitat during interglacial marine transgressions, especially in southern Florida. This habitat reduction probably accounted for extinctions of many wetland birds, especially those with relatively small body-size, in the late Pliocene. Additional extinctions recorded in the early Pleistocene resulted in a gradual loss of species richness in these communities by the end of the Pleistocene, when modern wetlands were established. Climatic events in the Pleistocene influenced terrestrial communities with the periodic formation and fragmentation of the Gulf Coast corridor, a mosaic of dry, thorn-scrub, savannah, wetlands, and hammocks, that united Neotropical regions to the south with western North America and the Florida peninsula. This corridor developed with the emergence of the shallow continental shelf in the Gulf of Mexico during glacial stages, which in some cases more than doubled the land area of the peninsula and allowed numerous species of mammals, birds, reptiles, and plants to extend their ranges into Florida. Fragmentation of this corridor during interglacial stages caused loss of species richness, probably from loss of habitat heterogeneity in the peninsula. Unlike wetland communities, modern terrestrial communities did not develop until the early Holocene, after the last fragmentation of the corridor and extinction event at 0.01 Ma. Fossil passerine remains suggest that North American continental migration patterns began developing in the peninsula in the late Pliocene, and were fully established by the late Pleistocene, but Neotropical migration patterns may not have developed until the early Holocene. The chronology presented here provides a model of avian biogeography and community development in the Florida pen- insula during the ice ages that can be tested with future paleontological research.
10.2307/40157567|From September 1975 through November 1976, we studied breeding of 26 species of antbirds (Formicariidae) at Limoncocha, in equatorial Amazonian Ecuador. At Limoncocha, where daylength, rainfall, temperature, and insect population sizes showed almost no seasonality, the antbirds appeared to breed all year. Evidence for breeding included the finding of nests and the use of dissections on both male and female birds. A high overlap of molting and breeding also was noted. Aseasonal breeding may be a result of an unfluctuating environment, a situation infrequently encountered, even in the tropics. Therefore, aseasonal breeding in birds is rare. /// Desde de Septiembre de 1.975 hasta Noviembre de 1.976, nosotros estudimos la crianza de 26 especies de hormigueros (Formicariidae) en Limococha, en el Ecuador Amaznico. Donde la luz del da, la lluvia, temperatura y una gran cantidad de insectos, no se encontr en una estacin especial, los hormigueros aparecieron para criar durante todo el ao. Evidencias de las crianzas incluyeron el hallazgo de nidos y el uso de la disecacin en el caso de los pajaros macho y hembra. Tambien se noto un cambio de plumaje en el mismo tiempo que se criaron. La crianza durante todo el ao puede ser un resultado de un unfluctuante medo ambiente, una situacin no frecuentemente encontrada en los trpicos. Por esta razon, este tipo de crianza de pajaros es muy dificil de encontrar.
10.2307/40157568|The Austral Canastero Asthenes anthoides (King, 1831; Furnariidae), endemic to Patagonia and Tierra del Fuego (southern South America south of about 37S), was studied in 1985-1988. Fieldwork showed the Austral Canastero to be (a) relatively widespread and locally common in mesic shrubsteppes, (b) absent from grasslands, and (c) more common in Tierra del Fuego than it was 90-100 years ago. These observations contrast with reports stating (a) that A. anthoides is vanishing and threatened because its formerly extensive grassland habitat has been virtually destroyed by overgrazing, and (b) that its occurrence in shrublands today reflects a relictual distribution in a marginal habitat. To resolve these divergent points of view, the habitat preferences, status, and distribution of A. anthoides are reviewed. Recent field surveys revealed that A. anthoides is not rare and occurs both on the Patagonian mainland and in Tierra del Fuego. A. anthoides is most frequently found in mesic shrubsteppe receiving 350-450 mm of rain/year, with an upper stratum of shrubs (Chiliotrichum and Berberis), and a ground stratum of tussock-grasses (Festuca). A. anthoides is also present in three other habitats: (1) more humid, tall and dense woodland with small trees (Nothofagus antarctica), (2) drier, low and open shrubsteppe with shrubs (Mulinum spinosum) and some grass tussocks, and (3) drier, low shrubsteppe with uniform stands of Lepidophyllum cupressiforme without grass cover. In its mesic shrubsteppe habitat A. anthoides reaches densities of up to one singer per ha. A. anthoides was looked for, but not found in spite of repeated visits, in the extensive grasslands of Magallanes receiving 200-300 mm of rain/year. The geographical range of A. anthoides seems to be disjunct. A population in northwestern Patagonia (western Neuqun, western Ro Negro, and western Chubut, Argentina; and adjacent Chile in uble, Malleco, and Aysn) may be geographically isolated from a southern population inhabiting the Patagonian mainland (southern Santa Cruz, Argentina, and Magallanes, Chile) and northern Tierra del Fuego (in both Argentina and Chile). Nineteenth and early twentieth century reports mentioned that A. anthoides was rare in Tierra del Fuego, whereas the species is common there today. A. anthoides has thus increased numerically in the last 90-100 years and is not vanishing on Tierra del Fuego. On the Patagonian mainland this species is relatively localized and patchily distributed but is not rare where found. There is no evidence suggesting that A. anthoides occupied the formerly more widespread grasslands of Patagonia, that its alleged rarity is due to grassland destruction from overgrazing by sheep, or that its modern shrubland habitat is marginal. All steppe habitats, including grasslands where A. anthoides does not occur, and shrubsteppes, including the Chiliotrichum-Festuca shrubsteppe where it is found most commonly, are overgrazed. In Chilean Fuego-Patagonia, grasslands support on average one sheep per 2 ha, and shrubsteppes twice as many sheep, on average one per hectare. Overgrazing has degraded both grasslands and shrubsteppes, and the shrubsteppe habitat where A. anthoides lives is no less impacted by grazing than the grasslands where it does not occur. The apparent distributional gap between northern and southern populations of A. anthoides is located in a low rainfall area where the climate is too arid for the mesic shrubsteppe (degraded or not) favored by this species. Careful exploration of mesic shrubsteppe pockets along the eastern Andean foothills of western Santa Cruz may therefore reveal the presence of A. anthoides there. Even though the southern population of A. anthoides does not seem threatened, its shrubsteppe habitat is not only subject to intensive sheep grazing pressure (too many sheep/ha), but also to overgrazing on a large geographical scale. In Chilean Fuego-Patagonia over 80% of grazing land is now eroded because of overgrazing (55% of it moderately to severely). Increased deterioration of shrubsteppe could therefore alter the status of A. anthoides for the worse. Consequently the long-term status of this species remains uncertain. A. anthoides is the only member of a group of closely related allopatric and parapatric taxa that consistently occupies a shrubby habitat, the others being reported to live in grasslands. Considered by some authors to be a subspecies of a group of canasteros including A. wyatti, A. punensis, and A. sclateri, allopatric A. anthoides is sufficiently distinct morphologically to be treated as a species. This Patagonian endemic could serve as an indicator species, whose density in shrubsteppes of Fuego-Patagonia might give an easily obtainable measure of the health of its habitat. /// Asthenes anthoides (King, 1831; Furnariidae), llamado Espartillero Austral o Canastero manchado chico en Argentina y Canastero del sur en Chile, especie endmica de la Patagonia y Tierra del Fuego (Amrica austral al sur del 37S), fue estudiada en 1985-1988. El trabajo de campo mostr que (a) A. anthoides tiene una distribucin relativamente amplia, siendo comn, localmente, en la estepa arbustiva msica, (b) se encuentra ausente en pajonales o estepas con dominancia de gramneas, y (c) ha aumentado numericamente en Tierra del Fuego en los ltimos 90-100 aos. Dichas observaciones no concuerdan con informes previos segn los cuales (a) A. anthoides estara desapareciendo y se encontrara amenazada, debido a que el sobrepastoreo por ovinos practicamente destruy los pajonales, originariamente su ambiente preferencial, y (b) que su presencia actual en estepa arbustiva correspondera a una distribucin relictual en un ambiente marginal. Para tratar de resolver estos puntos de vista divergentes, se han analizado las preferencias ecolgicas, status, y distribucin geogrfica de A. anthoides. El trabajo de campo del autor revel que A. anthoides no es una especie rara. La especie fue encontrada en la Patagonia continental y en Tierra del Fuego. A. anthoides habita ms frecuentemente en estepa arbustiva msica alta con 350-450 mm de lluvia/ao, con un estrato superior de arbustos (Chiliotrichum y Berberis) y un estrato inferior de gramneas (Festuca). A. anthoides se encuentra presente en otros tres ambientes: (1) matorral alto y denso con pequeos rboles (Nothofagus antarctica) y mayor pluviosidad anual, (2) estepa arbustiva ms baja y abierta, con arbustos (Mulinum spinosum) y algunas gramneas, y bajo regimen pluviomtrico, y (3) estepa arbustiva baja de Lepidophyllum cupressiforme, uniformemente distribuido, sn gramneas, y con baja pluviosidad. En su ambiente preferencial de estepa arbustiva msica la densidad de A. anthoides puede alcanzar hasta un indivduo por ha. A. anthoides no fue encontrada en los pajonales extensos de Magallanes, con precipitacion anual de 200-300 mm, ms alla de que este ambiente fue visitado durante varias ocasiones. El rango de distribucin de A. anthoides parece ser disyuncto, con una poblacin en el noroeste de la Patagonia (oeste de Neuqun, oeste de Ro Negro, y oeste de Chubut, Argentina; y zonas adyacentes de Chile en uble, Malleco y Aysn) que probablemente se encuentra geogrficamente aislada de una poblacin austral que ocupa la parte continental de la Patagonia austral (sur de Santa Cruz, Argentina, y Magallanes, Chile), y la zona norte de Tierra del Fuego (Argentina y Chile). Informes del siglo pasado y del comienzo del siglo veinte sealan la rareza de A. anthoides en Tierra del Fuego, sn embargo la especie es actualmente comn en esta isla. Estos datos sugieren que A. anthoides ha aumentado numericamente en los ltimos 90-100 aos, y no indican que la especie esta desapareciendo de Tierra del Fuego. En la Patagonia continental esta especie esta ms localizada y su distribucin es disyunta, pero donde se encuentra no es rara. No hay informacin que indique que (a) A. anthoides ocupaba los extensos pajonales de la Patagonia de antao, (b) su supuesta rareza actual resultara de la destruccin de pajonales por sobrepastoreo ovino, o (c) su habitat arbustivo actual es marginal. Todos los ambientes de la estepa, incluyendo los pajonales donde A. anthoides no habita actualmente, y las estepas arbustivas, incluyendo la estepa arbustiva con Chiliotrichum-Festuca donde la especie se encuentra con ms frecuencia, estan sobrepastoreados. En Fuego-Patagonia Chilena, los pajonales tienen una carga media de 1 oveja/2 ha y las estepas arbustivas dos veces ms, con un promedio de 1 oveja/ha. Por lo tanto, el sobrepastoreo ha degradado ambos pajonales y estepas arbustivas y la estepa arbustiva donde habita A. anthoides ha sido tan deteriorada por sobrecarga ovina como lo han sido los pajonales donde esta especie no se encuentra. La distribucin aparente disyunta entre las poblaciones septentrionales y meridionales de A. anthoides se encuentra localizada en una zona con poca precipitacin anual, que corresponde a una zona donde el clima es demasiado rido para el desarrollo de las estepas arbustivas msicas ocupadas por A. anthoides, sea tanto en reas con o sin degradacin por sobrepastoreo. Exploraciones de campo en zonas de estepa arbustiva msica, a lo largo de la franja oriental del piedemonte de los Andes en el oeste de Santa Cruz, deberan revelar la presencia de A. anthoides. Aunque la poblacin austral de A. anthoides no parece amenazada, su ambiente de estepa arbustiva esta sometido no solo a pastoreo ovino intensivo (demasiado ovinos/ha) sino tambin a sobrepastoreo a gran escala geogrfica. En Fuego-Patagonia Chilena, ms del 80% del rea de uso agropecuario esta erosionado por sobrepastoreo (55% de esto de manera moderada a severa). Un aumento de la deterioracin de las estepas arbustivas empeorara el status de A. anthoides. Esto significa que el status futuro de A. anthoides no esta asegurado. Asthenes anthoides es el nico miembro de un grupo de taxones aloptridos o paraptridos estrechamente emparentados, que ocupa un ambiente arbustivo de manera exclusiva. Las otras formas se consideran como ecolgicamente ligadas a pajonales. Considerado por algunos autores como una subespecie de un grupo de canasteros o espartilleros que incluyen A. wyatti, A. punensis, y A. sclateri, la forma aloptrida A. anthoides es suficientemente distinta morfolgicamente, como para ser considerada una especie. Esta especie endmica podra servir como especie indicadora cuya densidad en la estepa arbustiva de Tierra del Fuego y Patagonia podra proporcionar una medida de la salud relativa de dichas estepas de facil obtencin.
10.1525/om.2012.74.1.36|Several urban-adapted species sing at a higher frequency in noisy urban areas than in quiet locations. Yet it remains unclear whether the ability to adjust signals in response to noise is related to an ability to persist in noisy areas, because signal change and habitat use are infrequently measured within a single study. We investigated occupancy and signal change in response to noise in the Blue-gray Gnatcatcher (
10.1525/om.2010.67.1.62|Dissatisfaction with the subspecies unit of classification is, in part, a consequence of the failure of many of those who have described subspecies to follow the conceptual definition of the subspecies, namely that it should represent diagnosable units. The antiquity of the descriptions of most subspecies (median year of description of currently recognized subspecies estimated to be 19081909) means that the majority predated any statistical tools for assessing diagnosability. The traditional subspecies concept, as originally construed, identifies minimum diagnosable units as terminal taxa, and I suggest that it is thus essentially synonymous with the phylogenetic species concept. Therefore, both must deal with the fundamental difficulties inherent in using diagnosability as a criterion. Application of monophyly as a criterion for taxon rank at the population level has inherent difficulties. An advantage of the biological species concept is that it incorporates, in its classification of taxa, assessments of gene flow and reproductive isolation, which are critical components of the evolutionary process. Critics of the biological species concept persistently overlook the fact that it includes the subspecies rank as a necessary component of that concept for distinct populations within biological species. Analyses that require terminal taxa can, with care, be conducted under the biological species concept using subspecies plus monotypic species. Critics of the biological species concept with respect to its application have missed the biological and political disadvantages of treating minimum diagnosable units as the primary unit of conservation concern. Human perception is in accord with ranking such minimum diagnosable units below the species rank; socially and scientifically, humans consider diagnosable units of other humans as distinct groups but not separate species.
10.1525/om.2011.70.1.30|The Gaoligong Shan Mountains (GLGS) of southwestern Yunnan, China, which form the southeastern extent of the Himalaya Mountains, are a narrow range running north-south, rising over 4,000 m in the north and receding into the lowlands in the south. The range is defined by the Irrawaddy lowlands to the west and by the Nujiang (also known as the Salween River) to the east. We summarize results of five recent ornithological expeditions that surveyed altitudinal transects in the southern and northern GLGS. The GLGS are a designated UNESCO World Heritage Site and are considered a hotspot by multiple conservation organizations. We used bird distributions to examine the hotspot status of the GLGS, and we discuss the value of the local species diversity for conservation. We found that the GLGS have tremendous avian diversity for a temperate region, with at least 486 documented avian taxa in the region. However, there is relatively little endemism in the GLGS per se, and 50% of GLGS breeding bird species are near the edge of their range. Our data do not suggest that the GLGS are a major evolutionary center for birds; however, the larger eastern Himalaya region (of which the GLGS are a part), does appear to be a center of endemism and evolution. The GLGS may have beenand are likely to remain-an important and precious refuge for the preservation of Asian montane forest birds.
10.1525/om.2010.67.1.54|The century-long debate over the meaning and utility of the subspecies concept has produced spirited print but only superficial consensus. I suggest that genuine consensus about subspecies is an impossible goal, because trinomial epithets will inevitably be applied to a heterogeneous mix of evolutionary phenomena, thereby precluding genuine standardization of the concept. Populations that have intermediate levels of phenotypic differentiation and geographic isolation from one another often fall into a region I refer to as the "zone of art," where even skilled experts can disagree about the validity of any one subspecific treatment. The trinomial system cannot accurately represent the kind of information now available about genetic and character variation across space. Instead, ever more accurate tools are being perfected for quantitative, standardized descriptions of variation. These analysesnot subspecies classificationswill keep providing new scientific insights into geographic variation. Even more important, those of us who propose, debate, set, or enforce scientifically based conservation policies need to recognize that trinomial nomenclature survives primarily as a tool of convenience that cannot be viewed as strict science and should not be called on to establish or resolve crucial policy issues such as endangered-species listings. I have described new subspecies myself, and I regard the concept as a useful convenience. However, I submit that art and judgment will always be involved in practice and that no one trinomial treatment can be scientifically proved to be the biologically correct one. In this context, the subspecies concept itself is simply too heterogeneous to be classified as strict science.
10.2307/40166810|Brood-parasitic Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) have been implicated in the Federally-endangered status of five hosts as well as in declines of numerous other Nearctic-Neotropical passerines that breed in North America. Cowbird control is an integral management strategy in the recovery plans of all five hosts. Although there are a few exceptions, a line appears to be drawn between managers, whose main objective is to increase host population numbers, mainly through cowbird control, and academic researchers, who want empirical evidence that cowbirds cause declines and that cowbird control actually works. The objectives here are to (1) provide a brief summary of the status of cowbird hosts, (2) provide background on when and why cowbird management became controversial, (3) discuss the federal laws protecting cowbirds and inconsistencies in interpretation of laws, (4) discuss some concerns about widescale cowbird control, and (5) discuss some management issues regarding Bronzed Cowbirds (M. aeneus) and Shiny Cowbirds (M. bonariensis). /// El tordo parsito de cra Molothrus ater ha sido implicado en la situacin de "Federalmente en peligro" de cinco especies de hospedadores, as como de otros numerosos Paserines Nertico-Neotropicales que se reproducen en Norteamrica. El control de los tordos parsitos es una estrategia de manejo integral dentro del plan de recuperacin de dichas cinco especies de hospedadores. Si bien existen algunas pocas excepciones, sera necesario trazar una va de comunicacin entre las personas a cargo del manejo en s, cuyo objetivo principal es incrementar el tamao poblacional de los hospedadores mediante el control de los tordos parsitos, y los investigadores acadmicos que buscan evidencias empricas que demuestren que dicho control realmente funciona. Los objetivos aqu desarrollados son: (1) proveer de un breve compendio sobre la situacin de los hospedadores de los tordos parsitos, (2) proveer de la informacin bsica acerca de cundo y por qu el manejo de los tordos puede transformarse en una medida controvertida, (3) discutir las leyes federales que protegen a los tordos y las inconsistencias en la interpretacin de las mismas, (4) discutir algunos asuntos relativos al manejo a gran escala de los tordos parsitos, y (5) discutir brevemente algunas cuestiones de manejo referidas a otras dos especies de tordos parsitos: M. aeneus y M. bonariensis.
10.2307/40168323|I describe the interactions between Yellow-rumped Caciques (Cacicus cela) in southeastern Peru and three species that often pirate their nests or destroy their eggs and kill nestlings. Individuals of one of these species, the Piratic Flycatcher (Legatus leucophaius) harass caciques until they abandon their nests, which the flycatchers then use for their own eggs and young. The second species, the Russet-backed Oropendola (Psarocolius angustifrons), sometimes destroys the eggs or kills the young in cacique nests near its own in mixed colonies. The third species, the Troupial (Icterus icterus), exhibits both forms of behavior, it takes over a nest for its own use and then destroys the eggs and kills the young in adjacent cacique nests. The driving force behind nest destruction is unlikely to be interspecific competition for food because caciques, oropendolas, and Troupials forage in very different microhabitats. Instead, I hypothesize that the adaptive value of the destruction of neighboring nests is the creation of a maze of empty nests which makes it difficult for predators to find the occupied active nest. Direct observations of predator attacks on colonies indicate that such mazes are effective defenses against several frequent nest predators. Because nest pirates are very rare compared with the cacique host, their impact on the distribution of host nests appears to be negligible. Rarity of the piratic species relative to the host may be a necessary condition for the evolution of nest piracy, as in mimicry. /// Describo la interaccin entre la calandria (Cacicus cela) en el sureste de Per y tres especies que comnmente piratean sus nidos o destruyen sus huevos y matan los polluelos. Individuos de una de estas especie, el atrapa moscas pirata (Legatus leucophaius) hostigas a las calandrias hasta que ellas abandonan sus nidos, los cuales son usados por los atrapa moscas para sus propios huevos y polluelos. La segunda especie, el oropndola de lomo rojizo (Psarocolius angustifrons), a veces destruye los huevos y mata a los polluelos en los nidos de calandrias cercanos a sus propios nidos en colonias mixtas. La tercera especie, el troupial (Icterus icterus), presenta ambas formas de comportamiento, se apodera del nido para su propio uso y luego destruye los huevos y polluelos de los nidos de calandrias circundantes. La fuerza que lleva a la destruccin de los nidos dificilmente sea competencia interespecifica, ya que las calandrias, los oropndolas y los troupiales se alimentan en microhabitats muy diferentes. Mi hiptesis, en cambio, es que el valor adaptativo de la destruccin de los nidos vecinos es la creacin de un laberinto de nidos vacios que dificulte a los depredadores, el encontrar el nido activo. Observaciones directas de ataques de depredadores a colonias, indican que semejantes laberintos son defensas efectivas contra ataques firecuentes de depredadores de nidos. Debido a que los piratas de nidos son muy raros comparandolos con las calandrias anfitrionas, su impacto en la distribucin de la especie anfitriona parece ser mnimo. La rareza en la abundancia de la especie pirata en relacin con la especies pirateada, parece una condicin necesaria para la evolucin del comportamiento de pirata de nidos como en el caso de mmica.
10.2307/40166837|Population-specific genetic tags and stable isotope ratios are markers that can be used to track migratory birds throughout their annual cycle and determine their degree of migratory connectivity or the geographic linking of individuals or populations between different stages of the annual cycle. Until recently, few data had been obtained on the connectivity of small-bodied migrant birds such as warblers. Here, we combined geographic differences in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA), stable hydrogen isotope (D) analysis, and banding records to assess migratory connectivity in the northern yellow warbler (Dendroica petechia; aestiva group) populations and describe their migration patterns. To use mtDNA variation to identify the geographic breeding region from which birds originated (eastern lineage: eastern and central North America; western lineage: western and central North America; southern lineage: southwest United States), we genotyped 133 wintering birds obtained from 23 sites in Mexico, Central America, and Venezuela; 438 spring migrants from 32 stopovers in North America; and 428 fall migrants from 30 stopovers in North America. There was strong segregation between lineages throughout the annual cycle: the eastern lineage was present in eastern and central North America during migration, and in Yucatan (Mexico), Panama, and Venezuela during the wintering season; the western lineage was present in central and western North America during migration and in Mexico and Panama during the wintering season; the southern lineage was restricted to western Mexico during the wintering season. The distributions of eastern and western lineages indicated strong continental-scale connectivity and a parallel migration system. We conducted D analysis on 94 feather samples collected from wintering birds captured on eight wintering areas and on 347 feather samples taken from migrants captured on six spring stopovers and five fall stopovers located in the United States and Mexico. For a large portion of these samples (n = 407), genotypic information was also available, and we combined these two types of information to create lineage-specific isotopic subregions to which birds were then assigned. The addition of the isotopic marker suggested weak connectivity between Mexican states along the Pacific coast and the west coast of North America, as well as between southeastern Mexican states along the Gulf Coast and central North America. Overall, the combined genetic and isotopic information identified the following migratory routes: in spring, there were three main flyways: a trans-Gulf route taken by eastern migrants passing through New York and Louisiana; a circum-Gulf route taken by eastern and western migrants passing through Veracruz, Mexico; and a western route taken by western birds passing through Nevada. In fall, there were two main flyways: the trans-Gulf route taken by eastern migrants passing through Alabama and the western-circum-Gulf routes taken by western migrants passing through California and possibly through New Mexico. We obtained 6 banding records between breeding and wintering grounds and 46 banding records of migration movements through Canada and the United States, ranging from 1921 to 2002. For records between the breeding and wintering grounds, we recorded a wide diversity in breeding origins, providing independent support that Central America received migrants from a very wide array of breeding locales in North America. Mapping of migration movements suggested strong links between breeding grounds in eastern Canada and stopovers in the eastern United States; strong links between breeding grounds and stopovers along the Pacific coast from Alaska to California; and poorly defined links between breeding grounds and stopovers within central North America, concordant with patterns observed in the other markers. In summary, the combined use of three types of markers provided sufficient resolution to detect general patterns of migratory connectivity in a widely distributed species. In terms of conservation, the finding of a parallel migration system suggests that migrant species with similar broad ranges could be managed using "phylogeographic flyways" to define demographically cohesive management units. Received 14 November 2005, accepted 7 July 2006. /// Los marcadores genticos especficos de las poblaciones y la proporcin de istopos estables, son marcadores que puedes ser usados para rastrear a las aves migratorias a lo largo de su ciclo anual y as determinar el grado de conexin migratoria o la unin geogrfica de los individuos o poblaciones entre las diferentes etapas de su ciclo anual. Recientemente se han obtenido datos sobre la conexin de aves migratorias de talla pequea como lo son las aves pertenecientes a la familia Parulidae. Aqu, combinamos las diferencias geogrficas en ADN mitocondrial (ADNmt), anlisis de istopos estables de hidrogeno (D) y registros de anillamiento para evaluar la conexin migratoria en las poblaciones de la subespecie Dendroica petechia aestiva y describimos sus patrones de migracin. Para identificar la regin geogrfica reproductiva de la cual las aves se originaron (linaje oriental: este y centro de Amrica del Norte; linaje occidental: oeste y centro de Amrica del Norte; linaje sureo: suroeste de Estados Unidos) mediante el uso de ADNmt, se obtuvieron los genotipos de 133 aves en invernada en 23 sitios en Mxico, Amrica Central y Venezuela; as como los genotipos de 438 aves migratorias en primavera de 32 reas de descanso en Amrica del Norte y los genotipos de 428 aves migratorias en otoo de 30 sitios de descanso en Amrica del Norte. Existi una fuerte segregacin entre los diferentes linajes a lo largo del ciclo anual: el linaje oriental estuvo presente en el este y centro de Amrica del Norte durante la migracin y en Yucatn (Mxico), Panam y Venezuela durante la temporada de invierno; el linaje occidental estuvo presente en el centro y oeste de Amrica del Norte durante la migracin y en Mxico y Panam durante la temporada de invierno; el linaje sureo estuvo restringido al oeste de Mxico durante la temporada de invierno. La distribucin de los linajes orientales y occidentales indic una fuerte conectividad a nivel continental y un sistema migratorio paralelo. Realizamos anlisis de istopos estables (D) en 94 plumas colectadas en aves en invernada capturadas en ocho sitios de invernada y en 347 plumas colectadas de aves migratorias capturadas en seis sitios de descanso durante la primavera y cinco sitios de descanso localizados en los Estados Unidos y Mxico. Existi informacin genotpica disponible para una gran parte de estas muestras (n = 407), y combinamos estos dos tipos de informacin para crear subregiones isotpicas especificas de los linajes a los cuales las aves fueron asignadas. La adicin de marcadores isotpicos sugirieron una conexin dbil entre los estados Mexicanos a lo largo de la costa del Pacifico y la costa oeste de Amrica del Norte, as como tambin entre los estados del sureste de Mxico a lo largo de la costa del Golfo y el centro de Amrica del Norte. En general, la combinacin de informacin de istopos y genotipos pudieron identificarse las siguientes rutas migratorias: en primavera, hubieron tres rutas principales: la ruta trans-Golfo utilizada por aves migratorias del este pasando por Nueva York y Louisiana; una ruta circum-Golfo utilizada por aves migratorias del este y oeste pasando por Veracruz, Mxico; y una ruta occidental utilizada por aves migratorias del oeste pasando por Nevada. En el otoo, se observaron dos rutas principales: la ruta trans-Golfo usada por aves migratorias del este pasando por Alabama y la ruta circum-Golfo occidental usada por aves migratorias del oeste pasando por California y probablemente por Nuevo Mxico. Obtuvimos 6 registros de anillamiento entre los sitios de reproduccin e invernada y 46 registros de anillamiento de movimientos migratorios en Canad y Estados Unidos, entre los aos 1921 al 2002. Para los registros entre los sitios de invernada y reproduccin, registramos una amplia diversidad en cuanto al origen de reproduccin, dando un apoyo independiente a que Amrica Central recibi aves migratorias proveniente s de una gran variedad de sitios de reproductin en Amrica del Norte. Los mapas de los movimientos migratorios sugiri fuertes enlaces entre los sitios de reproduccin en el este de Canad y los sitios de descanso en el este de los Estados Unidos; as como fuertes enlaces entre los sitios de reproduccin y sitios de descanso a lo largo de la costa del Pacifico desde Alaska hasta California; y enlaces poco definidos entre los sitios de reproductin y de descanso dentro de Amrica del Norte, lo que concuerda con los patrones observados en los otros marcadores. En resumen, el uso combinado de los tres tipos de marcadores ofreci suficiente resolucin para detectar patrones generales de conexin migratoria en especies ampliamente distribuidas. En trminos de conservacin, el encontrar un sistema de migracin paralela sugiere que las especies migratorias con rangos amplios similares podran ser manejadas usando rutas de vuelo "filogeogrficas" para definir unidades de manejo cohesivas demogrficamente.
10.2307/40166720|When female control of EPCs is included as an important feature of extra-pair mating systems, our understanding of male mating strategies can become quite different. We illustrate this by examining how breeding synchrony of females affects extra-pair mating tactics. If females choose extra-pair mates, then breeding synchrony is expected to promote EPCs, rather than reduce opportunities for EPCs. When extra-pair mating systems are viewed as leks (Wagner, Chapter 6), it becomes clear that males should compete most intensely for EPCs when the availability of fertile females is highest. Likewise, females may also benefit directly from breeding synchrony if a simultaneous comparison of competing and displaying males allows for a more reliable assessment of male quality. We show how this model applies to the Hooded Warbler where males attempt EPCs when their mates are fertile, females seek EPCs from neighboring males, and EPFs are most common during the peak of fertility. Furthermore, in comparisons among species, breeding synchrony is generally associated with an extra-pair mating system.
10.2307/40166828|In a marked population of cooperatively breeding American Crows (Corvus brachyrhynchos) studied for 17 years in Ithaca, New York, the effect of West Nile virus (WNV) was local but dramatic during 2002-2003. In two consecutive years, >35% of American Crows in well-known families died or disappeared between late July and early October, the primary WNV season in the state of New York. West Nile virus was confirmed as the cause of death in nearly all tested birds. Risk of mortality did not differ with age, sex, or breeding status of birds, but adult mortality increased 10-fold and juvenile mortality 3-fold above normal levels for this population as measured during 1990-1998. Four times as many breeders died during August-October as disappeared during an entire year between 1995 and 1998. Social effects were assessed by comparing changes from 2001, before WNV was present, through 2005, two years after the high mortality of 2003. Although no significant decreases in group size, frequency of helping, average age of breeders, or territory density were observed after two years of WNV presence, the direction of most changes suggested that repeated years of WNV presence would likely affect social structure. Unusual social events, including female territory-budding and adoption of and subsequent helping by unrelated juveniles, were documented in 2004-2005. American Crows filled territory vacancies very slowly. The presence of breeding-age auxiliaries on territories may counter rapid social change and breeding declines in cooperatively breeding crow populations, but repeated years of such high mortality are likely to cause both significant social disruption and severe population declines among American Crows. Received 5 August 2005, accepted 30 November 2005. /// El efecto de el virus del Oeste del Nilo (VON) fue especifico pero dramtico durante el 2002-2003, en una poblacin marcada de Corvus brachyrhynchos que presentaban reproduccin cooperativa la cual fue estudiada durante 17 aos en Ithaca, Nueva York. En dos aos consecutivos mas del 35% de Corvus brachyrhynchos pertenecientes a familias conocidas murieron o desaparecieron entre finales de Julio y principios de Octubre, coincidiendo con la primera temporada del VON en el estado de Nueva York. Se confirmo que el virus del Oeste del Nilo fue la causa de mortalidad e casi todas las aves examinadas. El riego de mortalidad no fue diferente con la edad, sexo o estado de apareamiento de las aves, pero la mortalidad de adultos y juveniles se incremento diez y tres veces, respectivamente, arriba de los niveles normales para esta poblacin de acuerdo a los datos obtenidos durante 1990-1998. La mortalidad de individuos en reproduccin durante los meses de Agosto-Octubre fue cuatro veces mayor que los individuos que desaparecieron durante un ano completo entre 1995 y 1998. La evaluacin de los efectos sociales se realizo mediante la comparacin de cambios desde el 2001, antes de que el VON estuviera presente, hasta el 2005, dos anos despus de la alta mortalidad del 2003. Aunque no se detectaron, despues de dos anos de la presencia de el VON, reducciones significativas en el tamao de los grupos, la frecuencia de ayuda, la edad promedio de los individuos en reproduccin o la densidad territorial, la direccin de la mayora de los cambios sugiri que la presencia de el VON en anos subsecuentes tendra una alta probabilidad de afectar la estructura social. Los eventos sociales no muy comunes, incluyendo hembras compartiendo territorio y la adopcin y subsiguiente ayuda de individuos juveniles no emparentados, fueron registrados en el 2004 al 2005. Corvus brachyrhynchos ocuparon territorios disponibles muy lentamente. La presencia en los territories de individuos auxiliares en edad reproductiva puede mostrar cambios sociales rpidos y reducciones en reproduccin en las poblaciones de Corvus con reproduccin cooperativa, pero subsiguientes anos de alta mortalidad pueden probablemente causar alteraciones sociales significativas y drsticas reducciones poblaciones entre Corvus brachyrhynchos.
10.2307/40166829|We surveyed the permanent-resident bird community of a fragmented Ohio landscape for West Nile virus (WNV) antibodies to determine which species carried antibodies, what percentage of the individuals in each species carried antibodies, and whether antibodies were retained from one year to the next. Eight of 20 species carried antibodies in at least one year. For species with >10 captures, the seroprevalence ranged from <1% in Downy Woodpeckers (Picoides pubescens) to 33% in Northern Cardinals (Cardinalis cardinalis). About 10 young-of-the-year were seropositive each year, which indicates the presence of active viral transmission in the preceding summer. All four seropositive birds from year one that were recaptured in year two were seropositive again, indicating that in at least two species, antibodies may persist. These results suggest that permanent-resident birds are either largely unaffected by WNV or are generally susceptible to mortality when infected with it. The exception is the Northern Cardinal, which may be an important reservoir species for the virus. Seroprevalence in Northern Cardinals was high in both years, and females had higher seroprevalence than males. Received 30 April 2005, accepted 23 November 2005. /// Estudiamos una comunidad permanentes de aves residentes en una regin fragmentada del estado de Ohio para detectar cuales especies de aves eran portadoras de anticuerpos del virus del Oeste del Nilo (VON), as como determinar que porcentaje de individuos en cada especies eran portadores de anticuerpos y si estos anticuerpos eran conservados de un ano al otro. De 20 especies de aves, ocho eran portadoras de anticuerpos en al menos un ao. Para las especies con mas de 10 capturas, el rango de la sero-frecuencia fue de menos del 1% en Picoides pubescens hasta 33% en Cardinalis cardinalis. Alrededor de 10 juveniles fueron sero-positivos cada ao, lo que indica la presencia de una infeccin viral activa en el verano anterior. Las cuatro aves sero-positivas del ao uno que fueron recapturadas en el ao dos fueron sero-positivas nuevamente, indicando que en al menos dos especies, los anticuerpos pueden subsistir. Estos resultados sugieren que las aves residentes son ampliamente no afectadas por el VON o que son por lo general susceptibles a mortalidad cuando son infectadas con el virus. La exceptin es Cardinalis cardinalis, la cual puede ser un hospedero importante para el virus. La sero-frecuencia en Cardinalis cardinalis fue alta en ambos aos, y las hembras tuvieron una sero-frecuencia mayor que los machos.
10.2307/40157524|Ted Parker died in August 1993 at age 40, in an airplane crash while conducting aerial assessments of threatened habitats in Ecuador. Parker's two decades of work in the Neotropics strongly influenced many field ornithologists. Although he published numerous papers, the majority of his data and many of his ideas were never published. Through example, conversations, and extensive correspondence, he directly influenced the methodology and conceptual orientation of many others. We summarize his major discoveries and highlight his primary themes, particularly the importance of knowledge of (a) bird vocalizations for faunal surveys, and (b) voice, habitat, and foraging behavior for systematics. His Rapid Assessment Program, sponsored by Conservation International, was a landmark approach for conservation biology. /// Ted Parker muri en agosto de 1993, a la edad de 40 aos, en un accidente de avin mientras realizaba una evaluacin area de los hbitats amenazados en el Ecuador. Las dos dcadas de trabajo del Sr. Parker en el Neotrpico influenciaron fuertemente a muchos ornitlogos de campo. Aunque l public numerosos artculos cientficos, la mayora de sus datos y muchas de sus ideas nunca fueron publicadas. Mediante su ejemplo, sus conversaciones, y su extensa correspondencia, l influenci directamente la metodologa y orientacin conceptual de muchos otros. Resumimos sus mayores descubrimientos y resaltamos sus temas primarios, en particular la importancia del conocimiento de (a) las vocalizaciones de las aves en los levantamientos de fauna, y (b) la voz, el hbitat y el comportamiento alimentario en la sistemtica. Su Programa de Evaluacin Rpida, patrocinado por Conservation International, marc un hito en la manera de enfocar la biologa de la conservacin.
10.2307/40166838|The previous two chapters present detailed case studies describing the connectivity in two Nearctic-Neotropical migratory songbirds, the American Redstart (Setophaga ruticilla) and the northern yellow warbler (Dendroica petechia; group aestiva). Using different approaches, these studies demonstrate how multiple sources of information and assignment techniques can be combined to reveal broad patterns of connectivity between breeding, wintering, and migration periods. Here, we summarize the results of these studies and briefly discuss whether these tools can be applied to other systems. We also explicitly address the assumptions, limitations, and potential sources of variation in these approaches. Next, we discuss how patterns of connectivity can be used to advance our understanding of population dynamics and make sound conservation decisions. Finally, we outline a few key ideas for future projects that we believe would make significant contributions to improving our ability to link migratory populations, placing emphasis on projects that would be suitable for graduate students interested in pursuing research in this field. /// Los dos captulos anteriores presentan casos detallados que describen la conexin Nertica-Neotropical de dos especies migratorias de aves canoras, Setophaga ruticilla y Dendroica petechia; grupo aestiva). Mediante el uso de diferentes anlisis, estos estudios demostraron como mltiples fuentes de informacin y tcnicas de asignacin pueden se combinadas para demostrar patrones generales de conexin entre los sitios de reproduccion, de invernada y los perodos de migracin. En este capitulo, resumimos los resultados de estos estudios y discutimos brevemente si estas herramientas pueden ser utilizadas en otros sistemas. Tambin nos referimos ampliamente a las suposiciones, limitaciones y a las fuentes potenciales de error en estos anlisis. Acto seguido, discutimos como los patrones de conexin pueden ser usados para mejorar nuestro entendimiento sobre dinmica poblacional y tomar decisiones responsables sobre conservacin. Por ultimo, hacemos nfasis en algunas ideas clave para los proyectos futuros que creemos harn contribuciones importantes para el mejoramiento de nuestra habilidad de enlazar las poblaciones de aves migratorias, poniendo nfasis en proyectos que creemos serian apropiados para estudiantes de postgrado interesados en este campo de investigacin.
10.2307/40168324|Cocos Island, Costa Rica, is a small and lushly forested island in the tropical eastern Pacific Ocean between Costa Rica and the Galapagos Archipelago. During two expeditions there, I quantified the stomach contents, available food (i.e., foliage-inhabiting arthropods sampled with sweep nets), foraging behavior, and morphology of the endemic Cocos Island Flycatcher (Nesotriccus ridgwayi, Tyrannidae). Nesotriccus individuals captured a diversity of arthropods in proportion to their availability (P  0.1), using diverse foraging tactics. Stages of the birds' annual cycles differed during the two expeditions, but diet and foraging behavior were remarkably consistent. Fulgoroid Homoptera dominated stomach contents (43-64% of prey individuals), and probably explain why Nesotriccus foraged regularly with acrobatic pursuits (11-12% of all feeding tactics) much like a mainland Homoptera specialist, Terenotriccus erythrurus. Nesotriccus is morphologically and behaviorally distinct from its primarily frugivorous mainland relatives, Phaeomyias and Capsiempis; its wings and tail are structurally convergent with those of Terenotriccus, but its bill is comparatively longer and probably evolved for the capture of non-homopteran insects. Nesotriccus is a food specialist or generalist depending on one's frame of reference--available food, mainland insectivorous flycatchers, closest mainland relatives, or other resident land birds on the island. The diet and adaptations of Nesotriccus, in combination with other evidence, strongly support the hypothesis that insufficient abundance of many resource types precludes persistence in Cocos Island forests by virtually all but the endemic land birds. High endemism of the depauperate land bird fauna on the island appears to have resulted as much from this ecological impoverishment as from a lack of potential immigrants. /// La Isla del Coco es una isla costarricense pequea y densamente arbolada en el ocano Pacfico tropical, entre Costa Rica y el Archipilago de las Galapagos. Durante dos expediciones a la isla cuantifique los contenidos estomacales, alimento disponible (es decir artrpodos habitantes de los follajes muestreados con redes a mano), comportamiento de forraje y morfologia del atrapamoscas endmico (Nesotriccus ridgwayi, Tyrannidae) de la Isla del Coco. Individuos de Nesotriccus utilizan diversas tacticas de forraje para capturar una diversidad de artrpodos en proporcin a disponibilidad (P  0.1). Las etapas del ciclo anual de las aves fueron diferentes durante las dos expediciones, pero la dieta y el comportamiento de forraje fueron consistentes de manera remarcable. Los contenidos estomacales estuvieron dominados por Homoptera (Fulgoroidae, 43-64% de los individuos presa) y probablemente eso explique porque Nesotriccus forrajea regularmente con cazas acrobticas (11-12% de todas las tcticas de alimentacin) de manera muy similar a la especialista en Homoptera del continente Terenotriccus erythrurus. Nesotriccus es morfolgicamente y por su comportamiento, distinto de sus parientes del continente, primariamente frugvoros, Phaeomyias y Capsiempis; sus alas y cola son de estructura convergente con aquellas de Terenotriccus pero su pico es comparativamente mas largo y probablemente ha evolucionado para capturar insectos no-homopteros. Nesotriccus se alimenta como un especialista o no-especialista, dependiendo del marco de referenda en el que se lo ubique--comida disponible, los atrapamoscas insectvoros del continente, parientes ms cercanos del continente u otras aves terrestres residentes en la isla. La dieta y adaptaciones de Nesotriccus, en combinacin con otra evidencia, apoya fuertemente la hiptesis de que las aves, con exceptin de las terrestres endmicas, al no disponer de manera abundante de muchos tipos de recursos se les hace imposible la permanencia en bosques de la Isla del Coco. El alto endemismo de la pauprrima fauna de aves terrestres de la isla, parece haber resultado tanto por su empobrecimiento ecolgico como por la falta de inmigrantes potenciales.
10.1525/om.2012.74.1.6|Many avian species have long been exposed to loud natural sounds such as streams, waterfalls, and wind. However, anthropogenic noise pollution is a relatively recent phenomenon that birds now have to cope with throughout much of the world. Early investigations on bird responses to noise tended to focus on physical damage to ears, stress responses, flight or flushing responses, changes in foraging, and other behavioral reactions. These studies were often conducted under laboratory conditions because determining effects of noise on free-ranging birds is particularly difficult, in that we rarely have the opportunity to isolate noise as a single testable variable. By coupling introduced noise on the landscape (e.g., from gas well compressors) with ecologically similar controls, investigators have recently found additional responses, including avoidance of noisy areas, changes in reproductive success, and changes in vocal communication. Numerous investigators have compared urban birds with their rural counterparts in quieter surroundings and found that at least some birds can compensate for the masking effect of noise through shifts in vocal amplitude, song and call frequency, and song component redundancies, as well as temporal shifts to avoid noisy rush-hour traffic. Sounds have presumably always been part of the environment, but noise pollution has escalated over the past century, especially the past few decades, disturbing the integrity of natural ecosystems. This review provides general background information, updates on the most current literature, and suggestions for future research that will enhance our comprehensive knowledge and ability to mitigate negative effects of noise.
10.2307/40168283|Recent Louisiana State University Museum of Zoology fieldwork on the east slope of Serrana a de Pirre at Cana is discussed. A list of bird species recorded by us along a 600-1550 m elevational gradient, with specimen data, and with an indication of relative abundance, is given. Information is presented on the status, behavior, and habitat preferences of 25 species of poorly known birds. Six are restricted to the highlands of Darin, Panama. We report the first specimen of Purplethroated Woodstar (Calliphlox mitchellii) for Central America with comments on the identification of female woodstars. We discuss the effects of long-termed human disturbance on a tropical forest fauna. /// La informacin obtenida recientemente sobre la vertiente oriental de la Serrana de Pirre en Cana, Darin por el Museo de Zoologa de la Universidad del Estado de Luisiana es presentada en este trabajo. Se presenta una lista de especies de aves observadas a lo largo del gradiente de 600 a 1.550 m junto con informacin de cada ejemplar y una indicacin sobre su abundancia relativa. Tambin se presenta informacin sobre el estado biolgico ("status"), comportamiento y preferencia de habitat para 25 especies de aves poco conocidas. Seis especies se encuentran restringidas a la zona montaosa del Darin, Panam. Se presenta informacin sobre el primer espcimen del "Woodstar" de garganta purpura (Calliphlox mitchellii) para America Central con comentarios para la identificatin de hembras de estas aves. Se discuten los efectos que han causado las perturbaciones producidas por grupos humanos durante largo tiempo, en fauna de un bosque tropical.
10.2307/40587710|For 75 years, from his 1926 Ph. D. dissertation on the range expansion of the Serin (Serinus serinus) in Europe, to 2001, when he and Jared Diamond published the 492-page book The Birds of Northern Melanesia: Speciation, Ecology, and Biogeography, Ernst Mayr was interested in, thought about, and published on biogeography in general, and biogeography of birds in particular. Evolutionary biologists probably think that Mayr's most substantial contributions to 20th-century biology are (1) his views on species and speciation, as expounded in Systematics and the Origin of Species (Mayr 1942) and Animal Species and Evolution (Mayr 1963); (2) his ideas on evolution in general, as expressed in What Evolution Is (Mayr 2001); and (3) his understanding of the entire field of biology, which he reviewed in 77ns is Biology (Mayr 1997). For their part, historians of science are likely to consider The Growth of Biological Thought (Mayr 1982) his masterpiece. Biogeographers and ornithologists, however, will add that another of Mayr's original and long-lasting contributions to biological thought consists of his many publications on biogeography, a field that fascinated him as much as, or even more than, systematics and evolution. Mayr's interests in biogeography have encompassed all the topics that are still current today in this field, such as continental drift and plate tectonics, geographic barriers, colonization, disjunctions, dispersal, ecological displacement, endemism, extinction, faunal buildup and decay, faunal elements, forest refuges, range expansion, and turnover. This is a remarkably broad range of subjects and, even more remarkably, he contributed original ideas to each of them. Here, Mayr's contributions to biogeography are reviewed through an analysis of his most important publications in this field. Durante 75 aos, desde 1926 cuando public su tesis doctoral sobre la expansin del rango de distribucin de Serinus serinus en Europa, hasta 2001 cuando conjuntamente con Jared Diamond public el libro de 492 pginas, Las Aves del Norte de Melanesia: Especiacin, Ecologa y Biogeografia ("The Birds of Northern Melanesia: Speciation, Ecology, and Biogeography"), Ernst Mayr ha estado interesado en, y ha publicado trabajos sobre biogeografia en general, y particularmente sobre biogeografia de aves. Es probable que los bilogos evolutivos opinen que las contribuciones ms substanciales de Mayr al pensamiento biolgico del siglo XX, fueron (1) sus ideas sobre especies y especiacin, las cuales fueron expuestas en Sistemtica y el Origen de las Especies ("Systematics and the Origin of Species", Mayr 1942) y en Especies Animales y Evolucin ("Animal Species and Evolution", Mayr 1963); (2) su pensamiento sobre evolucin en general, expresado en Qu es Evolucin ("What Evolution Is", Mayr 2001); y (3) su comprensin de todos los campos de la biologa, la cual demostr en Esto es Biologa ("This is Biology", Mayr 1997). Los historiadores de la ciencia, por su parte, consideran como su obra maestra El Crecimiento del Pensamiento Biolgico ("The Growth of Biological Thought", Mayr 1982). A suvez, los biogegrafos y ornitlogos, opinan que otras contribuciones de Mayr al pensamiento biolgico, originales y permanentes en el tiempo, son sus publicaciones en biogeografia, un campo en el cual Mayr se interes igualmente, o quizs ms que en el de la sistemtica. El inters de Mayr sobre la biogeografia ha incluido todo el rango de temas que an fascinan a los especialistas, como deriva continental y tectnica de placas, barreras geogrficas, colonizacin, discontinuidades, dispersin, desplazamiento ecolgico, endemismo, extincin, aumento o disminucin de faunas, elementos de la fauna, refugios forestales, cambios de la avifauna, extensiones de rango y substitucin de faunas. Es notable que no slo explor tal amplio rango de temas, sino que adems en cada uno de ellos, Mayr contribuy con ideas originales. El objetivo de este artculo es evaluar las contribuciones de Mayr a la biogeografia, por medio de un anlisis de sus publicaciones ms importantes en este campo.
10.1525/om.2012.74.1.78|We used three site types to address whether noise from gas well compressors interfered with our ability to detect birds in the Rattlesnake Canyon Habitat Management Area, San Juan County, New Mexico: (1) gas wells without compressors (control), (2) gas wells with compressors turned off only during surveys (T-off), and (3) gas wells with compressors running during the surveys (T-on). We conducted 571 bird surveys at 294 point-count locations, which were 50150 m from gas well pads. We measured sound pressure levels (SPLs) at point locations: control mean = 38.6  3.0 (SD) dB(A); T-off mean = 55.0  5.2 dB(A), measured with compressors on; and T-on mean = 52.7  4.5 dB(A). We observed significant differences in species richness, individual abundance, and bird diversity among site types; the differences existed between control and T-on sites and between T-off and T-on sites, but not between control and T-off sites. Species richness, individual abundance, and species diversity were all significantly and negatively influenced by SPL values. A significantly higher proportion of birds were detected on T-off sites compared with T-on sites for 13 species; this compares with only one species that was detected more at T-on sites than at T-off sites. Our results strongly suggest that noise emitted from gas well compressors significantly impaired our ability to detect birds. We determined that the detection threshold is ~45 dB(A), beyond which noise impairs human ability to detect birds within 60 m. These results are relevant to bird surveys in areas where natural and anthropogenic noise may negatively bias detections.
10.2307/40157547|For almost three decades, structural habitat complexity has been regarded as a primary ecological factor responsible for maintaining high species diversity of tropical bird communities. However, differences in habitat complexity between temperate and tropical forests have not been documented sufficiently. Differences between temperate and tropical forests were quantified by measuring 36 variables related to understory habitat structure. Structural components of temperate and tropical habitats differed significantly in several features. However, no differences were found in overall habitat heterogeneity (i.e. complexity) between temperate and tropical forests. To search for "bird-related" factors important in maintaining high tropical species diversity, we compared habitat selection between foliage-gleaning insectivorous birds in temperate and tropical forest understories. The tropical species were more specialized in horizontal and vertical habitat selection, and had lower "niche breadths" in foraging substrate and in foraging height. Tropical species also showed less interspecific overlap in most foraging variables than did temperate species. Therefore, higher species diversity, at least within this guild of birds in tropical and temperate forest understories, can be attributed at the proximate level to greater specialization and "tighter species packing," and may be more independent of greater habitat complexity than previously thought. /// Por casi tres decadas, la complejidad estructural del habitat se ha considerado como el principal factor ecologico responsable de mantener la alta variedad de especies encontrada en comunidades de pajaros tropicales. Sin embargo, la diferencia en complejidad del habitat entre bosques templados y bosques tropicales no ha sido suficientemente quantificada. Nosotros quantificamos diferencias entre bosques templados y bosques tropicales midiendo 36 variables relacionadas a la estructura del habitat bajo el dosel y encontramos varias diferencias significativas en componentes estructurales entre habitats tropicales y templados. Sin embargo, no encontramos diferencias en la heterogeneidad del habitat (complejidad) entre bosques templados y tropicales. Buscando factores que fueran importantes en mantener la alta diversidad de las especies de pajaros tropicales, comparamos la seleccion del habitat entre pajaros insectivoros que usan el follaje bajo el dosel en bosques templados y tropicales. Las especies tropicales estaban mas especializadas en su seleccion de habitats al nivel horizontal y vertical, teniendo pequenos nichos en el substrato y altitud del area donde forrajeaban. En la mayoria de las variables relacionadas al forraje, las especies tropicales tambien demonstraron menos traslapo entre-especies que las especies templadas. Concluimos pues que la alta variedad de especies, por lo menos dentro de este grupo de pajaros que viven bajo el dosel en bosques templados y tropicales, se puede atribuir inicialmente a mayor especializacion y concentracion de especies y puede que sea mas independiente de la total complejidad del habitat de lo que actualmente se cree.
10.2307/40168295|A conebill collected in October 1980 in Dpto. Puno, Peru is considered a hybrid between Conirostrum ferrugineiventre and Oreomanes fraseri. Both genera are former members of the "Coerebidae," a family now not usually recognized, as it is thought to be polyphyletic. Conirostrum and Oreomanes are now usually regarded as belonging to different phyletic lineages. Hybridization between these genera, coupled with their basic similarities in plumage coloration and pattern and in general morphology, suggests that Conirostrum and Oreomanes are more closely related than was previously recognized, but leaves unanswered the question of their relationships to other nine-primaried oscines. /// En octubre de 1980 se coleccion un pico de cono en el Departamento de Puno, Per, el cual es considerado un hbrido entre Conirostrum ferrugineiventre y Oreomanes fraseri. Ambos gneros fueron miembros del "Coerebidae", una familia que en la actualidad no es usualmente reconocida, pues se la considera compuesta por diversos linajes ("polyphyletic"). Conirostrum y Oreomanes actualmente son considerados como pertenecientes a diferentes linajes de filos. La hibridacin entre esos dos gneros, unida a sus similaridades bsicas en coloratin y modelo de plumajes y morfologa en general, sugieren que Conirostrum y Oreomanes estn ms estrechamente relacionados que lo que se reconoca anteriormente, pero queda sin respuesta la cuestin de sus relaciones con los otros oscines de nueve primarias.
10.2307/40168284|Several birds typical of southeastern Brazil's isolated and cold mountains have most probably been derived from Andean/Patagonian ancestors following Pleistocene glaciation. Typical species endemic to that area include Itatiaia Spinetail (Schizoeaca moreirae), Long-tailed Cinclodes (Cinclodes pabsti), and Mouse-colored Tapaculo (Scytalopus Speluncae). Uniquely among Andean-Patagonian derivatives, Band-winged Nightjar (Caprimulgus longirostris) has also colonized low-lands, even reaching tropical, urban Rio de Janeiro. Secondary radiation has led to at least one species of Andean origin (Brasilia Tapaculo, Scytalopus novacapitalis) colonizing the central Brazil Plateau, apparently having followed the inland movement of coastal forests. Extension southward of Amazonian heat and northward of patagonian aridity are advanced in explanation for the rupture of a formerly continuous band of vegetation linking the Andes and southeastern Brazil, with resulting isolation and speciation of landbirds. /// varias aves tpicas de las montaas aisladas y fras del sureste de Brasil han derivado muy probablemente de ancestros andino-patagnicos luego de las glaciaciones del pleistoceno. Especies endmicas tpicas de esa rea incluyen Schizoeaca moreirae, Cinclodes pabsti, y scytalopus speluncae. La chotacabra serrana (Caprimulgus longirostris) es nica entre los descendientes andinopatagnicos, ya que tambin ha colonizado las tierras bajas e incluso ha llegado a las reas urbanas y tropicales en Ro de Janeiro. La Radiacin Secundaria Ha hecho que al menos una especie de origen andino (Scytalopus novacapitalis) colonice la meseta central de Brasil, aparentemente habiendo seguido las extensiones tierra adentro del bosque atlntico. La extensin del calor amaznico hacia el sur Y de la aridez patagnica hacia el norte brindan una hiptesis para explicar la ruptura de una banda de vegetacin que en el pasado era continua y enlazaba los Andes con el sur de Brasil, dando como resultado la aislacin y especiacin de aves terrestres.
10.2307/40166816|Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater; hereafter "cowbird") parasitism is costly to host fitness, especially for smaller hosts whose nestlings have to compete with larger cowbird nestlings that often hatch earlier. Those fitness costs select for a variety of host defenses, including inconspicuous nests, aggression toward cowbirds, deserting parasitized nests, burying cowbird eggs, and ejecting cowbird eggs from nests. Egg ejection is the most effective defense against parasitism, but there are only 30 hosts known to regularly eject cowbird eggs. Evolutionary lag is the most likely reason that relatively few hosts demonstrate ejection. However, once ejection evolves in a host, some evidence indicates that it is maintained for long periods of time, even in the absence of brood parasitism-which suggests that host communities are becoming increasingly resistant to parasitism over time. With progressively fewer naive hosts to exploit, cowbirds may specialize on just a few host species. Retention of host defenses is also important because cowbirds were probably more common in the past, when mammalian megafauna were present. As a result, not every newly exposed host population requires cowbird control programs, because many have maintained defenses after inheriting them from ancestors that were exposed to parasitism, making them well defended against new bouts of parasitism. Several hosts that are currently the focus of control programs demonstrate defenses against parasitism, and their populations have increased. We suggest that the time has come to relax control of some of those species, to determine whether they can sustain their populations in the presence of parasitism and to allow their natural defenses to increase, so that they will not be perpetually dependent on human intervention. /// El parasitismo de Molothrus ater es costoso en trminos de la adecuacin de sus hospederos, en especial de aquellos de pequeo tamao cuyos pichones deben competir con los pichones de Molothrus ms grandes que en general eclosionan ms temprano. Estos costos en adecuacin seleccionan en favor de varias defensas por parte de los hopederos, que incluyen: nidos inconspicuos, agredir a los Molothrus, abandonar los nidos parasitados, y enterrar o rechazar los huevos de M. ater del nido. El rechazo del huevo es la defensa ms efectiva contra el parasitismo, pero se sabe que slo 30 especies de hospederos rechazan regularmente los huevos de M. ater. El retraso evolutivo es la causa ms probable para explicar porqu tan bajo nmero de hospederos demuestran rechazo. Sin embargo, una vez que el rechazo evoluciona en un hospedero, existe evidencia indicando que es mantenido por largo tiempo, an en ausencia de parasitismo de cra. Este ltimo fenmeno sugerira que las comunidades de hospederos se estaran volviendo cada vez ms resistentes al parasitismo. Con una progresin hacia un menor nmero de hospederos "inocentes" para explotar, los Molothrus pueden especializarse en unas pocas especies hospederas. La retencin de las defensas en los hospederos es tambin importante porque los Molothrus fueron probablemente ms abundantes en el pasado, cuando la megafauna de mamferos estaba presente. En consecuencia, no todas las especies de hospederos recientemente expuestas al parasitismo por Molothrus requeriran de programas de manejo de Molothrus. Muchas de ellas podran mantener defensas que habran heredado de ancestros que si estuvieron expuestos al parasitismo, haciendo que estuvieran bien defendidas contra nuevos eventos de parasitismo. Varios hospederos que actualmente son centro de programas de control demostraron defensas contra el parasitismo, y sus poblaciones se han incrementado. Nosotros sugerimos que ha llegado el tiempo de relajar el control sobre algunas de dichas especies, y de esta manera determinar si pueden mantener sus poblaciones en presencia del parasitismo. Al mismo tiempo, se estara permitiendo que sus defensas naturales se incrementaran, y de este modo, que no dependieran perpetuamente de la intervencin humana.
10.2307/40168278|This study provides the background for examining the historical biogeography of the South American avifauna by postulating 33 areas of endemism and listing representative endemic taxa for each area. The results of this analysis suggest that most avian species are narrowly endemic rather than widely distributed, which implies that phylogenetic analysis of different avian lineages should provide important evidence about the histories of the areas of endemism. Generally speaking, previous discussions about South American biogeography have interpreted most areas of endemism as Pleistocene forest "refugia." An alternative possibility is proposed here, namely that many of these areas are considerably older than the Pleistocene and that hierarchical patterns of endemism were established prior to that epoch. This view implies that the physiographic evolution of South America was probably as crucial in forming patterns of avian differentiation as were habitat changes caused by cyclical Pleistocene climates. /// Este estudio brinda una base para examinar histricamente la biogeografia de la avifauna sudamericana, proponiendo 33 reas de endemismo y nombrando taxa endmica representativa para cada rea. Los resultados de este anlisis sugieren que la mayora de las especies de aves son endmicas en reas muy pequeas ("narrowly endemic") en lugar de ampliamente distribudas, lo cual implica que los anlisis filogenticos de los distintos linajes de aves deben proveer evidencias de importancia para explicar la historia de las reas de endemismo. Generalmente, en discusiones previas respecto de la biogeografa sudamericana, la mayora de las reas de endemismo se han interpretado como "refugios" de los bosques del pleistoceno. En el presente trabajo se propone una posibilidad alternativa; muchas de esa reas son considerablemente ms antiguas que el pleistoceno y los patrones jerrquicos de endemismo fueron establecidos previamente a esa poca. Este punto de vista implica que la evolucin fisiogrfica de Sudamrica fue probablemente tan importante en la formacin de modelos de diferenciacin de avifauna como los cambios en los habitats causados por los ciclos climticos del pleistoceno.
10.2307/40587706|On the occasion of Ernst Mayr's recent passing, it is interesting to examine his career with two themes in mind: (1) the role of accidental events that fell his way and how he responded to them, and (2) his work within and outside ornithology and how each affected the other. Most important is that his central interests as a naturalist profoundly influenced all his empirical and theoretical work. His outlook as a naturalist, his broad empirical studies, and his ornithological knowledge permitted him significant new insights into the history and philosophy of biology. He showed that an understanding of the biology of a group of organisms, such as birds, provides a valid foundation for advances in biology. Con motivo del deceso reciente de Ernst Mayr, es interesante examinar su carrera teniendo en mente dos temas: (1) el rol de los eventos accidentales que interrumpieron su camino y cmo l respondi a los mismos, y (2) su trabajo dentro y fuera de la ornitologa y cmo uno afect al otro. Lo ms importante es que su inters central como naturalista influenci profundamente todo su trabajo emprico y terico. Su perspectiva como naturalista, sus estudios empricos amplios y su conocimiento ornitolgico le permitieron brindar significativos puntos de vista nuevos en cuanto a la historia y la filosofa de la biologa. l mostr que el entendimiento de la biologa de un grupo de organismos como las aves brinda una base vlida para avances en biologa.
10.2307/40157565|The avifauna of an isolated patch of Amazonian upland savanna in the Brazilian state of Amap was studied during October-November 1990. A total of 179 species was recorded, some of which were found for the first time in Amap or were known from this state only by old sight records. Forty-six species are known to inhabit savanna habitats in Amap. They may be grouped into four major distribution categories: (a) fourteen species with widespread distribution; (b) three species with distribution restricted to the savannas of northern South America; (c) two species distributed in a patchy fashion almost all the way around Amazonia; and (d) twenty-seven species with ranges centered in the open vegetation in Central Brazil. North of the Amazon, the high density of Central Brazilian species is found in Amap and Maraj savannas. This may indicate that possibly the most recent connections between savannas of the Cerrado Region in central Brazil and the islands of Amazonian savannas occurred along the Atlantic coast instead of across central Amazonia. This contrasts with what has been generally suggested by some proponents of the refuge theory. An urgent plan of conservation for Amazonian savannas is necessary, as large areas of this unique environment have been drastically modified in the last few decades. /// A avifauna de uma localidade de uma ilha de campo amaznico de terra firme no Estado do Amap, Brasil, foi estudada entre Outubro e Novembro de 1990. 179 espcies foram registradas para esta localidade, algumas das quais foram encontradas pela primeira primeira vez para o Amap ou foram conhecidas deste Estado somente com base em registros visuais antigos. Um total de 46 espcies registradas para o Amap so associadas primariamente com campos de terra firme. A distribuio destas espcies podem ser agrupadas em quatro grandes categorias: (a) quatorze espcies largamente distribuidas na Amrica do Sul; (b) trs espcies com distribuio centrada nas savanas do norte da Amrica do Sul; (c) duas espcies com distribuio em ilhas de vegetaes abertas em torno da Amaznia; e (d) vinte e sete espcies com o centro da distribuio centradas no Brasil central. Nos enclaves de campos de terra firme localizados ao norte do Rio Amazonas, a mais alta densidade de espcies com distribuies centradas no Brasil Central est nas savanas do Amap e Maraj. Isto pode indicar que talvez as conexes mais recentes entre estes enclaves e a regio do cerrado no Brasil Central ocorreram ao longo da costa Atlntica e no pelo centro da Amaznia, como tern sido geralmente proposto por alguns proponentes da teoria dos refgios. Um plano urgente de conserva para as ilhas de campos de terra firme dentro da Amaznia  necessrio, por causa que grandes reas deste tipo de ambiente singular tern sido drasticamente modificadas durante as ltimas dcadas.
10.1525/om.2010.67.1.24|Scientific debate over identification of taxa below the species level has persisted for centuries. This issue can be especially problematic for avian species, because dispersal is often orders of magnitude greater than in other vertebrates, leaving genetic differences among groups proportionately smaller. While the debate lingers, management decisions, often with millions of dollars and potential extinctions resting on the outcome, are regularly made by agencies tasked with maintaining lists of threatened and endangered taxa. With outdated taxonomic treatments and no formal policy or guidelines for defining species or subspecies, agencies have no authority to cite in determining limits to species or subspecies ranges. Lack of guidance from professional organizations regarding taxonomic criteria and lists does not benefit these species of concern. Here, we describe how subspecies designations are evaluated under the Endangered Species Act, tradeoffs between maintaining the biological species concept in avian taxonomy versus adopting a phylogenetic species approach, and why it is imperative for scientific organizations to maintain updated taxonomic treatments regardless of the species concept they use.
10.1525/om.2008.65.1.1|The evolution of longevity requires that the marginal investment in self-maintenance at the expense of reproductive effort is favored by realizing a longer reproductive lifespan. This can occur when extrinsic mortality factors (weather, predators, etc.) are less important than intrinsic mortality factors, such as the physiological cost of reproduction. Long-lived pelagic seabirds have low annual reproductive output and prolonged offspring growth periods that are thought to have evolved to accommodate marine resource variability. The life-history theory of senescence predicts that these same taxa should minimize
10.2307/40157539|Numerous well-differentiated and geographically representative taxa of birds (subspecies and species) meet in southern Amazonia along zones of secondary contact whose locations are independent of the courses of large and small rivers and their floodplains. Many of these contact zones cross the rivers at right angles, and others are displaced locally. Representative taxa that meet in the Rio Madeira-Rio Tapajs interfluvium inhabit the southern portion in the headwater region and the northern portion in the Amazonian lowlands, respectively. A number of northeastern Amazonian species extend their ranges across the lower Amazon River southward and, in some cases, exhibit secondary contact with relatives of southeastern Amazonia. The representative members of another group of species and subspecies pairs (which, in most cases, are separated by the wide lower Rio Tapajs) are in direct contact in the Rio Teles Pires region, the eastern headwater stream of the Rio Tapajs. Further contact zones cross large rivers in upper Amazonia. Birds that exhibit zones of contact include not only canopy birds but also species of the middle levels of the forest and some that are restricted to the rainforest understory. Contact zones represent regions of major biogeographic discontinuity in a continuous rainforest environment. An historical interpretation of their origin as zones of secondary contact implies large-scale separation of the respective bird populations during one or more periods of rainforest reduction during the geological past. Numerous indications of climatic-vegetational fluctuations during the Cenozoic, i.e., the Tertiary and Quaternary periods, and before are known from peripheral and central portions of Amazonia and other tropical areas of the world; these favor a refugial interpretation for the origin of the representative taxa of birds (and other animals) and their distribution patterns. Geographic separation of populations to the north and south of the Amazon River was caused by Pleistocene sea-level fluctuations that alternately flooded and exposed the central portions of the Amazon Valley (as well as portions of the continental shelf regions of South America) during interglacial and glacial periods, respectively. /// Vrias espcies e subespcies de aves bem diferenciadas e geograficamente representativas encontram-se ao longo de zonas de contato secundrio na regio sul da Amaznia. Essas zonas no esto relacionadas a cursos de rios grandes ou pequenos, nem a reas inundveis. Taxa representativos que se encontram no interflvio dos rios Madeira-Tapajs habitam, respectivamente, a poro sul na regio de cabeceira e a poro norte nas terras baixas Amazonenses. Vrias espcies do nordeste da Amaznia tm sua distribuio estendida em direo sul e em alguns casos exibem contato secundrio com espcies relacionadas do sudoeste da Amaznia. Outro grupo de pares de espcies e subespcies (que na maioria dos casos esto separadas pelo Rio Tapajs) esto em contato direto na regio do Rio Teles Pires, o rio de cabeceira ao leste do Rio Tapajs. Outras zonas de contato atravessam grandes rios na regio superior da Amaznia. Aves que exibem zonas de contato incluem espcies de dossel e de nvel intermedirio, e algumas espcies de sotobosque. Zonas de contato representam regies de grande descontinuidade biogeogrfica em um ambiente de floresta contnua. Uma interpretao histrica de sua origem como zonas de contato secundrio refere-se  separao em larga escala de populaes de aves durante um ou mais perodos de contrao da mata durante o passado geolgico. Durante o Cenozico (durante os perodos Tercirio, Quaternrio e anteriores), flutuaes climatico-vegetacionais so conhecidas de regies perifricas e centrais da Amaznia, e de outras reas tropicais do mundo. Essa evidncia sugere a hiptese de refgios para a origem e distribuio de taxa representativos de aves (e outros animais). A separao geogrfica de populaes ao norte e ao sul do Rio Amazonas deve-se a flutuaes do nvel do mar que inundavam e expunham, alternadamente, a regio central do Vale da Amaznia (e a regio das plataformas continentais da Amrica do Sul) durante perdos interglaciais e glaciais, respectivamente.
10.2307/40157573|This paper reports the findings of several surveys of the avifauna of the region surrounding the town of Alta Floresta, Mato Grosso, Brazil. We recorded a total of 474 species, many of which are regional endemics, which makes Alta Floresta one of the richest known sites in Brazil and all of eastern Amazonia. We provide information for a number of species range extensions and for species for which there were few previous records for Brazil. We also provide information on the vocalizations, foraging ecology, and habitat preferences for many rare or localized species that are poorly known. Of particular interest to us were a number of birds that, at least locally, are restricted in distribution to stands of spiny bamboo (Guadua sp.). The relevance of our findings to previously conducted surveys, current biogeographic hypotheses, and the many urgent regional conservation problems (including conservation priorities), are discussed. /// Apresentam-se os resultados de vrios levantamentos ornitolgicos da regio prxima a Alta Floresta, Mato Grosso, Brasil. Tendo um total de 474 espcies, inclusive muitas endmicas da regio, Alta Floresta  um dos stios mais ricos do Brasil e de toda a Amaznica oriental. Descrevemos extenses de distribuio de vrias espcies, muitas dessas tendo puocos registros no pas. Tambm descrevemos vocalizaes, ecologia de forrageamento, e preferncia de habitat em algumas espcies raras ou mal conhecidas. Particularlmente interessantes so espcies que, pelo menos localmente, so restritas a tabocais (bambuzais de Guadua sp.). Discutimos os resultados no contexto de levantamentos anteriores, hipteses biogeogrficas, e problemas urgentes regionais de conservao.
10.2307/40168320|For six years we studied the territorial systems and group composition of three species of antwren in the lowland tropical forest on Barro Colorado Island, Panama. Checker-throated Antwrens (Myrmotherula fulviventris) and Dotwinged Antwrens (Microrhopias quixensis) co-defended small (1.5 ha) territories that remained stable for the entire study. White-flanked Antwrens (Myrmotherula axillaris) defended larger (2-4 ha) more overlapping, and more fluctuating territories. We suggest that the territorial system of Dot-winged and Checker-throated antwrens is based on stable areas of dense vine-tangles, whereas White-flanked Antwrens are much less dependent on these areas. White-flanked Antwrens and Dot-winged Antwrens occur in small family groups; young remain with parents for long periods, occasionally overlapping breeding efforts in the following rainy season. Checker-throated Antwren young disperse relatively quickly. No difference in demography or population dynamics accounts for the interspecific variation in group size. Foraging ecology is the best predictor of nonbreeding season group size, not only in antwrens, but in understory insectivores in general. Foliage-gleaning species have the greatest tendency toward clan formation. We suggest that adults of foliage gleaning species are the least sensitive to disturbance from the addition of conspecifics (young) foraging in close proximity. /// Hemos estudiado los sistemas territoriales y la composicin de grupos de tres especies de pjaros hormigueros en las tierras bajas del bosque tropical de la Isla de Barro Colorado, Panam, durante seis aos. El hormiguero de garganta ajedrezada (Myrmotherula fulviventris) y el matorralero (Microrhopias quixensis) codefienden pequeos territories (1,5 ha) que nan permanecido estables a lo largo de todo el estudio. Los hormigueros de flancos blancos (Myrmotherula axillaris) defienden territorios mayores (2-4 ha) que se superponen ms y son ms fluctuantes. Sugerimos que los sistemas territoriales de las dos primeras especies estan basados en reas de vida estables en vegetacin enmaraada y densa, mientras que la ltima especie es mucho menos dependiente de esas reas. El matorralero y el hormiguero de flancos blancos, se encuentran en pequeos grupos familiares, los jvenes permanecen junto a los padres por largos perodos de tiempo y ocasionalmente se superponen a los esfuerzos reproductivos de la siguiente temporada de lluvia. Los jvenes del hormiguero de garganta ajedrezada se dispersan relativamente rpido. No se cuenta con diferencias en la demografia o en la dinmica de las poblaciones para explicar la variacin interespecfica en el tamao de los grupos. La ecologa de forraje es el mejor elemento para predecir el tamao de los grupos fuera de la temporada de reproduccin no slo en hormigueros, sin tambin de insectivoros en vegetacin inferior en general. Las especies que picotean comida de las hojas "foliage-gleaning") tienen la mayor tendencia a la formacin de clanes. Sugerimos que los adultos de las especies "foliage-gleaning" son menos sensibles a ser perturbados por la presencia adicional de con-especficos (los jvenes) forrajeando muy cerca.
10.2307/40168317|We ask how disturbance affects the land birds of the Pearl Archipelago, Panama. We analyze 15 censuses conducted on 11 islands between 1971 and 1978. Avian abundances are highly predictable among islands and years. Two islands with unusual forests support unique bird communities. The nine remaining islands form two groups. The first includes large islands and their immediate satellites. These islands support several bird species that are not found on the second group of small, isolated islands. Community structure is similar among islands within each group and consistently different among islands drawn from different groups. These patterns are repeatable from year to year despite disturbances such as fire, windstorms, and drought, that occurred between 1971 and 1978. We conclude that disturbance has minimal impact on this community, and we suggest that disturbance will be more important to sessile organisms than to mobile organisms. The number of Pearl Islands whose avifaunas are known is increased from four to 14. The species-area relation is exponential. /// Nos preguntamos en que manera las aves del Archipilago de las Perlas son afectadas por perturbaciones. Analizamos 15 censos conducidos en 11 islas entre 1971 y 1978. Se puede predecir con relativa certeza la abundancia de aves a lo largo de las islas y los aos. Dos islas que poseen bosques inusuales, soportan comunidades avcolas nicas. Las nueve islas restantes forman dos grupos. El primero incluye islas grandes y sus islas satlites que las circundan inmediatamente. Estas islas tienen varias especies de aves que no se encuentran en el segundo grupo de islas pequeas y aisladas. La estructura de la comunidad es similar entre islas de un mismo grupo, y consistentemente diferente si se las compara con islas de grupos diferentes. Estos modelos se repiten ao tras ao, a pesar de perturbaciones tales como incendios, tormentas de viento y sequas, que nan ocurrido entre 1971 y 1978. Nuestra conclusin es que las perturbaciones tienen un efecto mnimo en esta comunidad y sugerimos que sern mucho ms importantes para organismos ssiles que para organismos mbiles. El conocimiento de la avifauna de las islas del Archipilago de las Perlas se incrementado de 4 a 14. La relacin entre el nmero de especies y el rea de la isla es exponential.
10.2307/40166719|Differences among species in breeding system and degree of sexual dimorphism are thought to be mirrored by species-level differences in past or present sexual selection. The greater the deviation from monogamy, the greater the potential influence of sexual selection on the sex that is more variable in reproductive success (RS). The recent discovery of extra-pair fertilizations (EPFs) in apparently (i.e., socially) monogamous bird species, and the fact that EPFs have the potential to increase variance in RS of such species, led us to quantify EPFs in Dark-eyed Juncos and to explore the relative impact of EPFs on male and female variation in RS. We obtained season-long measures of frequency of EPFs, numbers of mates acquired, and apparent RS (young produced in nests of social mates) and genetic RS for 50 male and 45 female juncos studied during two breeding seasons in Virginia, USA. Forty-two of the 50 males produced offspring and 19 of these 42 (45.2%) lost paternity to EPFs. Thirty-eight of the 45 females produced offspring, and 13 of the 38 (34.2%) had at least one young sired by EPFs. There were no cases of conspecific brood parasitism. Of 187 young, 53 (28%) were sired by EPFs. Males that gained EPFs rarely suffered losses, and males that were victims of EPFs rarely gained by them. The result was that some males were more successful than others. We calculated variance in male and female apparent and genetic RS and mating success (MS, number of mates per season). We also calculated statistical dependence of RS on mating success. Among males, apparent reproductive success was less variable (standardized variance [SV] = 0.55) than genetic success (SV = 0.72), indicating that EPFs increased variance in male RS. The sex difference in variance in genetic success (male SV = 0.72, female SV = 0.51) was considerably less than the sex difference in variance in mating success (male SV = 0.65, female SV = 0.37). Interestingly, in both males and females, genetic RS increased with number of mates, suggesting that sexual selection, when defined as the statistical dependence of RS on MS, was acting on both sexes. To our knowledge this is the first study to report EPF-based sexual selection in a socially monogamous female songbird. Although an increase in RS with MS will clearly cause selection to favor attributes of individuals that mate multiply, some would argue that selection should be called sexual only in situations in which access to additional mates is necessary to increased RS. Others see value in the statistical definition employed here. Regardless of the definition, more interspecific comparisons of males and females with respect to variance in apparent RS, genetic RS, MS, and the relative degree of dependence of RS on MS, should prove useful in determining whether and how these measures relate to degree of sexual dimorphism.
10.2307/40157566|We surveyed the avifauna of two humid lowland forest sites in eastern Rondnia, Brazil. Although Rondnia has been suggested as a site of a Pleistocene refugium for birds and contains a number of species and subspecies endemic to it, the state has attracted little field work by modern ornithologists. We provide locality lists with information on relative abundance, habitat use and migratory status for Cachoeira Nazar, on the Rio Jiparan, and Pedra Branca, on the Rio Anari. The species list of 459 at Cachoeira Nazar is the largest for any single locality in Brazil. We also report in more detail on 30 species that are poorly known or for which eastern Rondnia represented a significant range extension. One species of bird (Rondonia Bushbird, Clytoctantes atrogularis) was recently described from the site (Lanyon et al. 1990), and an additional species (Gray-throated Leaftosser, Sclerurus albigularis) was recorded from Brazil for the first time. /// Apesar de seu grande nmero de espcies e subespcies de aves endmicas, o estado de Rondnia  mal explorado por ornitlogos. Fizemos um levantamento de aves em duas localidades no leste do estado de Rondnia, Brasil, e fornecemos aqui listas com informaes sobre a abundnia relativa, o uso de habitat, e a categoria migratria de cada ave encontrada em Cachoeira Nazar, no Rio Jiparan, e em Pedra Branca, no Rio Anari. Com 459 especies, a lista de Cachoeira Nazar  a maior existente para uma nica localidade no Brasil. Fornecemos mais detalhes sobre trinta espcies que so pouco conhecidas, ou que mostram uma grande extenso em rea de distribuio. Uma espcie de ave (choca-de-garganta-preta, Clytoctantes atrogularis) foi recentemente decrita nesta localidade (Lanyon et al. 1990). Uma outra espcie (vira-folha-de-garganta-cinza, Sclerurus albigularis) foi registrada pela primeira vez no Brasil.
10.2307/40168322|A large number of neotropical bird species in many families regularly eat fruit. We discuss the physiological, morphological, and behavioral adaptations associated with eating fruits. Fruits present a number of difficulties for the frugivores, such as the low protein to calorie ratio, the watery bulk, and the undigestible seed mass. Although we find no consistent morphological adaptations for digesting fruits, we show that important adaptations in digestive physiology are to be expected. Both large and small birds have similarly diverse diets, but small birds, such as tanagers and manakins, eat mainly small, carbohydrate-rich fruits, while large species, such as cotingas and toucans, eat a wider range of fruit sizes including both small, carbohydrate-rich fruits and large, lipid-rich fruits. Most fruit-eaters have large gapes, and many birds swallow fruits whole, although a number of bird species, both small and large, may facultatively eat some large fruits piecemeal. Tanagers and some emberizid finches generally eat fruits by mashing the pulp, swallowing the pulp, juices and small seeds, but dropping medium and large seeds. Birds that take fruits on the wing usually have short, wide, flat bills, whereas those that reach fruits from perches often have long and narrow bills. Differences in bill structure affect the manner of fruit handling and may influence fruit selection. Most species take fruits either primarily on the wing or primarily from perches. We divide these two general foraging methods into four foraging maneuvers on the wing (hovering, stalling, swooping, and snatching) and three foraging maneuvers from a perch (picking, reaching, and hanging). These foraging techniques differentially affect access to fruits. Differences in flight maneuvers are associated with differences in wing-loading, wing aspect ratio, and degree of slotting. Likewise differences in ability to reach fruit from a perch are correlated with differences in tarsus shape and leg musculature. Very few birds are able to reach fruits well and also pluck them expertly on the wing. The dichotomy of frugivorous birds into specialists and generalists, with only a couple exceptions, is not supported by comparison of diet, behavior, morphology, or function as dispersers. The important differences among fruit-eating birds depend on the constraints of morphology on behavior. Differences in digestive systems, bill strength and shape, wing and leg morphology, and body weight differentially affect the accessibility of fruits, the ease with which they are handled, the rate at which they are eaten, the efficiency with which they are digested, and thus influence which fruits are selected. The presence of fruit-eating birds in so many families is not evidence for lack of requirements for eating fruits but rather represents adaptive specialization to exploit fruits displayed in different ways. /// En las zonas neotropicales se encuentran un gran numero de especies de aves pertenecientes a numerosas familias cuya dieta consiste de frutas. Presentamos una discusin sobre las adaptaciones fisiolgicas, morfolgicas y de comportamiento que estn asociadas con la costumbre de comer frutas. El comer frutas le presenta una serie de problemas a aves frugvoras como por ejemplo: una relacin baja entre protenas y caloras, un gran volumen de materia acuosa y la presencia de semillas indigeribles. Aunque no encontramos adaptaciones digestivas morfolgicas generates para comer frutas, demostramos que adaptaciones digestivas fisiolgicas en aves frugvoras son de esperarse. Las aves frugvoras, tanto las grandes como las pequeas, tienen dietas similares en cuanto a la diversidad de frutas. Sin embargo, las aves pequeas, como las tangaras y los saltarines, se alimentan mayormente de frutas pequenas que son ricas en carbohidratos; mientras que las aves de mayor tamao, como las cotingas y los tucanes, se alimentan de frutas de diversos tamaos; tanto de frutas pequeas ricas en carbohidratos, como de frutas grandes ricas en lipidos. La mayora de las especies frugvoras tienen un rictus ancho y muchas ingieren la fruta entera sin despedazarla. Sin embargo, algunas especies, tanto grandes como pequeas, tienen la capacidad facultativa de comerze la fruta trozo a trozo. Las tangaras y algunos de los pinzones usualmente se comen la fruta despus de aplastarla con el pico. Usando este mtodo ellos ingieren la pulpa, el jugo y las semillas pequeas, pero rechazan las semillas grandes y medianas. Las especies que obtienen la fruta volando, generalmente tienen picos cortos, anchos y de poca profundidad. Mientras que las que obtienen la fruta desde una percha comnmente tienen picos largos y estrechos. Estas diferencias en la estructura del pico afectan la manera en que el ave manipula la fruta y pueden influenciar el proceso de seleccin entre diferentes frutas. La mayora de las especies usan uno de dos mtodos principales para obtener las frutas, las toman volando o las toman desde una percha. Para las especies que obtienen las frutas volando, dividimos las maniobras de forrajeo en cuatro categoras: "hovering," "stalling," "snatching" y "swooping." Para las especies que obtienen la fruta desde una percha, dividimos las maniobras de forrajeo en tres categorias: "picking," "reaching" y "hanging." Todos estos metodos de forrajeo afectan de manera diferente el acceso que un ave pueda tener a una fruta. Las diferencias en maniobras de vuelo estn asociadas con diferencias aerodinmicas como el "wing-loading," "wing aspect ratio" y el grado de "slotting." De igual manera, las diferencias entre las especies en la abilidad de alcanzar frutas desde una percha estn asociadas con diferencias en la forma del tarso y la musculatura de las patas. Son muy pocas las especies que tienen la capacidad de obtener frutas desde una percha fcilmente y a la misma vez poder tomar frutas en vuelo con destreza. La dicotomia existente entre aves frugvoras "especialistas" y aves frugvoras "generalistas" no est apoyada por nuestras comparasiones de las dietas, comportamientos, morfolgias, o la funcin de las especies como dispersoras de semillas. Las diferencias mas importantes entre las aves frugvoras se basan en las restricciones impuestas por la morfologa y el comportamiento del ave. Diferencias en el sistema digestivo, la fuerza y connguracin del pico, la morfologa de las patas y alas y el peso del ave afectan de la manera diferente la accesibilidad de las frutas, la facilidad con que se manipulan, la rapidez con que se ingieren y la eficiencia con que se digieren y por lo tanto, influyen de manera muy importante en el proceso de seleccin entre diferentes frutas. La presencia de tantas aves frugvoras pertenencientes a numerosas familias no representa una evidencia de que no se necesitan adaptaciones para comer frutas, si no demuestra numerosas especializaciones adaptivas para ex- plotar frutas que estn presentadas en maneras diferentes.
10.2307/40168313|The sociobiology of mixed species flocks is reviewed and used as a basis for evaluating the adaptive significance of flocking. Virtually all data currently available deal with mixed flocks of insectivores, so this review deals primarily with those flocks with only minimal reference to flocks of frugivores and granivores. Most insectivorous species that participate in mixed flocks remain paired and defend exclusive feeding territories year round. Territoriality restricts intraspecific group sizes in flocks to single pairs or small family groups. Since territorial individuals are forced to leave a flock whenever it moves beyond their respective territory boundaries, there is a high turnover rate in flock composition. Some species reduce or eliminate turnover by aligning their respective territories so that they overlap completely. This alignment enables individuals of these species to remain permanently associated in the same mixed flock (except during some phases of the breeding cycle). Territory sizes of mixed flocking species are small (< 1-10 ha), and territory holders forage throughout their entire territories every few days. Foraging ranges of mixed flock participants remain relatively constant throughout the year with slight expansions due to increased trespassing during some periods of the year. The foraging niches of mixed flocking insectivores include a wide array of behaviors. Analyses of foraging niches reveal little overlap among most species, although sympatric congeners of at least one genus of Formicariidae (Myrmotherula) appear to overlap more than expected. Hypotheses concerning the adaptive significance of flocking are categorized as those predicting that flocking enhances foraging or reduces predation pressure. Analyses of spatial use and foraging niche characteristics of flocking species support some of both hypothesis categories. In general, however, the small intraspecific group sizes and home ranges resulting from permanent territoriality, and the high diversity of foraging niches tend to minimize the applicability of forage enhancement hypotheses. Limited cases of imitative foraging and foraging facilitation from the flushing of insects (beater effect) are reported. Predation reduction, through improvement of surveillance, appears to be an important function of mixed species flocking. Support for this conclusion is still largely indirect, but increasing field evidence is accumulating. /// Se revee la sociobiologa de bandadas mixtas (compuestas por varias especies) y se usa como una base para evaluar el significado adaptativo de andar en bandadas. Casi toda la informatin disponible se refiere a bandadas mixtas de insectvoros, por lo que esta revisin se refiere en forma mnima a bandadas de frugvoros o granvoros. La mayora de las especies insectvoras que participan de bandadas mixtas se mantienen en pareja y defienden territorios de alimentacin exclusivos durante todo el ao. Esta territorialidad restringe el tamao de los grupos intraespecficos en una bandada a unicamente pares o pequeos grupos familiares. Debido a que individuos territorialistas estn obligados a salir de la bandada cuando esta se translada fuera de los lmites de sus territorios, hay un alto nivel de cambio en la composicin de la bandada. Algunas especies disminuyen o eliminan el intercambio de individuos, alineando sus respectivos territorios, de manera que ellos se superpongan completamente. Esta alineacin le permite a los individuos de esa especie quedar asociados permanentemente en la misma bandada mixta (excepto durante algunas fases del ciclo reproductive). Las superficies de los territorios de varias especies participantes de bandadas mixtas son pequenas (<1-10 ha) y los ciudadores de los territorios forrajean a lo largo de todos sus territorios cada pocos dias. Los rangos de forraje de miembros de bandadas mixtas son relativamente constantes a lo largo del ao con pequeas expansiones debido al aumento de las intrusiones durante ciertos perodos del ao. Los nichos de forrajeo de bandadas mixtas de insectivoros incluyen una amplia variedad de comportamientos. Anlisis de nichos de forraje revelan poca superposicin entre la mayora de las especies, aunque congneres simptricos de al menos un gnero de Formicariidae (Myrmotherula) parecen superponerse ms que los esperado. Las hiptesis concernientes al significado adaptativo de andar en bandadas estn clasificadas como aquellas que predicen que facilitan el forrajeo o que reducen las presiones de depredacin. Anlisis del uso espacial y de las caractersticas de los nichos de forraje de especies en bandadas, apoyan algo de ambas categoras hipotticas. Sin embargo, en general, los grupos pequeos intraespecficos y reas de vida pequeas debidas a territorios permanentes y la gran diversidad de nichos de forraje tienden a minimizar la aplicabilidad de la hiptesis de realce de forraje. Se informa sobre casos de imitacin de forraje y facilitamiento de forraje debido a la desaparicin de insectos ("beater effect"). El mejoramiento de la vigilancia parece ser una funcin importante de las bandadas compuestas por varias especies ya que disminuye la depredacin. Los elementos que apoyan esta conclusin son muy indirectos, pero cada vez se estn acumulando ms evidencias desde el campo.
10.2307/40168321|Several species of vultures are commonly found in neotropical forests, but none has occupied the forested regions of the Old World. It is suggested that a greater abundance of food for large scavenging animals may exist in New World forests because of their higher mammalian biomass and the complexity of their invertebrate communities. Cathartid vultures are highly efficient at searching for food and may be the major scavengers of large mammal carcasses in the neotropical forest. /// Se encuentran varias especies de butres en bosques neotropicales, pero ninguno ha ocupado regiones boscosas en el Viejo Mundo. Se sugiere que la mayor abundancia de comida para animales carroeros, existente en los bosques del Nuevo Mundo se debera a su mayor biomasa de mamferos y a la complejidad de su comunidad de invertebrados. Los buitres de la familia Cathartidae son muy eficientes buscando comida y pueden ser los mayores carroeros de carcasas de mamferos grandes en los bosques neotropicales.
10.2307/40168319|The host-parasite interactions between a generalist brood parasite, the Shiny Cowbird (Molothrus bonariensis), and one of its hosts, the Chalk-browed Mockingbird (Mimus saturninus), were studied from 1972 to 1979 at a study site in Buenos Aires Province, Argentina. Particular attention was paid to the possible co-evolution of host defenses and parasite counterdefenses in the system. Field observations and experiments were used to estimate selective pressures and to detect correlative responses in both species. The relationship between host and parasite is characterized by a high incidence of parasitism, as cowbird eggs were observed in 78.1 percent (50 of 65) of the mockingbird nests. Parasitism reduced the mean number of mockingbirds reared per nesting attempt by 69.9 percent (0.93 in non-parasitized nests, 0.28 in parasitized ones). Reproductive success of the parasite was low, as only six young cowbirds were reared from 102 eggs (5.9%); still, the lower success of the cowbird in nests of other local passerines makes mockingbirds a reasonably good host choice. Possible mockingbird defenses against brood parasitism include early nesting (before the cowbird laying season) and nest guarding. Cowbird eggs in the study site are of two morphs, immaculate and spotted, occurring in roughly equal frequencies in nests of most host species. Mockingbirds ejected nearly all immaculate cowbird eggs, but few spotted ones. Cowbird nestlings in mixed broods have a significantly lower chance of fledging than host nestlings: 37 percent starved in one to seven days. The smaller size and (presumably) the lower competitive ability of the parasitic nestling may explain this. This differential pattern of mortality resembles brood reduction; it may not have evolved as an antiparasitic defense of mockingbirds. Shiny Cowbirds do not seem to have evolved any specific, successful adaptation to deal with this particular host, except perhaps gregariousness during nest searching; this may counteract nest guarding by mockingbirds. There was no evidence that cowbirds avoided laying immaculate eggs in nests of this host, although the success for this egg morph was almost zero. Female cowbirds that lay immaculate eggs have alternative, suitable hosts. No evidence exists of host fidelity among female Shiny Cowbirds, and probably most individuals that parasitize mockingbirds are reared by more abundant host species with fewer antiparasite defenses. /// Entre 1972 y 1979 en un sitio de estudio de la provincia de Buenos Aires, se estudi la interactin entre anfitrin y parsito en una especie de ave que parasita nidos de diferentes especies de aves, el Molothrus bonariensis y una de sus especies anfitrionas, Mimus saturninus. Se prest particular atencio a la posibilidad de coevolucin de defensa del anfitrin y la contradefensa del parsito en el sistema. Se realizaron observaciones de campo y experimentos para determinar las presiones selectivas y detectar respuestas correlativas en ambas especies. La relacin entre la especie anfitriona y la parsita se caracteriza por una gran incidencia de parasitismo ya que los huevos de Molothrus bonariensis fueron observados en 78.1 por ciento (50 de 65) de los nidos de Mimus saturninus. La presencia del parsito redujo el promedio de polluelos de saturninus criados por nido en 69.9 por ciento (0.93 en nidos no parasitados y 0.28 en parasitados). El xito reproductivo del parsito fue bajo, ya que slo seis jovenes fueron criados de un total de 102 huevos (5.9%); pero de cualquier manera el poco xito de los bonariensis en nidos de otros passeriformes, hace que sea rasonablemente buena la eleccin del saturninus como especie anfitriona. Es posible que las defensas del saturninus en contra del parasitismo de la nidada incluya anidacin temprana (antes de que el bonariensis comience su poca de desove) y cuidado del nido. Los huevos del bonariensis, en el rea de estudio, fueron de dos diferentes formas, lisos o moteados, presentandose en frecuencia ms o menos similar en los nidos de la especie anfitriona. Los saturninus echaron del nido casi todos los huevos lisos, pero slo unos pocos de los moteados. Los polluelos de bonariensis en nidadas mixtas, tienen significativamente posibilidades ms bajas de que sus cras sobrevivan que los de la especie anfitriona: 37 por ciento murieron de hambre entre el primero y el sptimo da. El tamao ms pequeo y (presumiblemente) la menor habilidad competitiva de los pichones parsitos pueden explicar esto. Estos diferentes patrones de mortalidad se asemejan a la reduccin de la nidada; puede que no haya evolucionado como una defensa antiparsita. Los Molothrus bonariensis no parecen haber desarrollado ninguna adaptacin especfica y exitosa para sobreponerse a esta especie anfitriona "dificil," con excepcin quizs de su comportamiento gregario durante la bsqueda de nidos; esto puede ser contrarrestado por el cuidado del nido del Mimidae. No hubo evidencias de que el tordo evitar desovar huevos lisos en nidos de esta anfitriona, a pesar de que el xito de ese tipo de huevos fue casi cero. Hembras de los tordas que ponen huevos lisos tienen alternativamente otras especies anfitrionas. No hay evidencias de que exista una fidelidad hacia la especie anfitriona y es probable que la mayora de los individuos que parasitan sean criados por otras especies ms abundantes con menor cantidad de defensas antiparasitarias.
10.2307/40168275|Geographic variation in the measurements and coloration of Panterpe insignis is described, with particular reference to a newly discovered population on Volcn Miravalles in the Cordillera de Guanacaste of northwestern Costa Rica. This population, which extends the distribution of the species ca. 50 km to the northwest, has probably been isolated since the Pleistocene and is sufficiently differentiated to warrant recognition as P. i. eisenmanni, new subspecies. The ecology and annual cycle of the Volcn Miravalles population, and seasonal movements in other populations, are briefly described. /// Se describe la variacin en las medidas y coloracin de Panterpe insignis en relacin con su distribucin geogrfica, refirindose especialmente a una poblacin recientemente descubierta en el Volcn Miravalles de la Cordillera de Guanacaste en el noroeste costarricense. Esta poblacin, cuyo descubrimiento extiende el rango de distribucin de la especie aproximadamente 50 km hacia el noroeste, probablemente ha permanecido aislada desde el pleistoceno y se diferencia de manera suficiente como para garantizar el reconocimiento de P. i. eisenmanni, subesp. nova. Se describe brevemente la ecologa y el ciclo anual de esta poblacin del Volcn Miravalles, as como los movimientos estacionales de otras poblaciones.
10.1525/om.2010.67.1.42|Avian taxonomists have traditionally used subspecies to describe geographic variation in morphology, plumage, and song. A complementary evolutionary perspective is that subspecies are incipient species, representing the first stages of speciation. Here, I review the evidence that subspecies may capture early stages of the speciation process and consider what we have learned about factors that drive subspecies diversification. I apply variants on the birthdeath model to species age and subspecies richness data from 1,100 bird species. Clade-wide estimates of species diversification rates correlate positively with subspecies origination (hereafter "subspeciation") rates but not subspecies richness; thus, the evidence for heritable factors promoting speciation and subspeciation is equivocal. Subspeciation rates are higher among insular than among continental species, although this result is highly sensitive to the definition of insularity.
10.2307/40168309|In an attempt to understand ecological constraints on bird species distributions, the only major neotropical island system, the West Indies were studied. Discussed among previously-described patterns of structure from a 12 island study are: incidence regressions for guild membership on islands, using four simple food/ foraging guilds (frugivores, gleaning insectivores, flycatching insectivores, and nectarivores); saturation curves for total species and guild membership within habitats on large islands; and size differences coexistingbetween coexisting members of insectivorous and nectarivorous guilds in all island habitats and between coexisting frugivores on small and medium islands. The existence of size shifts and other responses have shown these to be real patterns and not the result of either redundancy in species lists or chance colonizations. Here this approach is expanded where possible to include 26 West Indian islands (excluding the Bahamas and extralimital islands) using published species distributions. The correlation between guild membership and total number of land-bird species on an island holds for frugivores and insectivores throughout the West Indies. Patterns of guild membership saturation and size differences between coexisting guild members (except large island frugivores) seem to apply to all islands but Jamaica and Grand Cayman; on these islands some habitats appear to be supersaturated (by West Indian standards) and guild members of unusually similar size coexist. The unusual patterns of structure on Jamaica may reflect resource differences from other islands, its proximity to source areas, or both. The variations found on Cuba and Grand Cayman may be the results of climatic constraints on the resources of those islands, which are regularly exposed to temperate weather patterns. The distributional patterns of West Indian bird species are next discussed in the context of these apparent ecological constraints. The existence of ecological counter-parts on different islands, habitat or size shifts due to varying competition, and other such patterns are noted. Situations where the ecological rules seem to be strained by present bird distributions are also indicated. In many cases the interactions between the ecological variation of a species and its taxonomic distinctions are readily apparent; further analyses at the subspecies level would yield further examples of this interaction. In conclusion, West Indian patterns of bird community structure are compared with those on eight neotropical land-bridge islands. The regressions for guild membership in relation to total land bird species in the West Indies very closely describe the same relationships for insectivorous and frugivorous guilds on land-bridge islands. Only for nectarivores does the West Indian pattern differ greatly from the land-bridge island pattern. Habitat saturation patterns differ, and size separations within guilds rarely occur on the land-bridge islands, probably because of species-area relationships very different from those of the West Indies. Nevertheless, the convergence of at least some of the structural patterns on all neotropical islands suggests that someday the constraints of community assembly for communities as large as the 200 species of Trinidad may be understood. With this knowledge, it should be easier to understand the ecological constraints at work in the diverse tropical mainland avifaunas. /// En un intento por entender los constreimientos ecolgicos en la distribucin de aves se estudi el uico gran sistema insular neotropical-las Antillas. A lo largo de estudios realizados previamente fueron discutidos patrones de estructuras de 12 islas, tales como: las correlaciones de incidencia de miembros de grupos ecolgicos ("incidence regressions for guild membership") en islas usando cuatro grupos simples de comida/forrajeo (frugvoros, espigadores ("gleaning") de insectos, atrapa-moscas, y nectarvoros); curvas de saturation para el total de especies y socios de grupos ecolgicos ("guild membership") en habitats de islas grandes; y diferencias de tamao entre miembros coexistentes de grupos ecolgicos de insectvoros y nectarvoros en todos los habitats de islas y entre frugvoros coexistentes en islas pequeas y medianas. La existencia de cambios de medidas u otras respuestas han mostrado que estos son verdaderos patrones y no el resultado de ya sea redundancia en la lista de especies o colonizacin al azar.Este intento es extendido, cuando es posible, hasta inclur 26 islas antillanas (excluyendo Bahamas e islas extralimtrofes) usando distribuciones de especies publicadas. La correlacin entre los socios de grupos ecolgicos y el nmero total de especies de aves terrestres en una isla se mantiene para frugvoros e insectvoros, a lo largo de todas las Antillas. Parecen aplicarse patrones de saturacin de socios de grupos ecolgicos y diferencias en tamaos entre miembros coexistentes del mismo grupo (excepto para grandes fugvoros insulares) para todas las islas con excepcin de Jamaica y Gran Cayman; en esas islas algunos habitats parecen estar supersaturados (para lo normal en las Antillas) y coexisten miembros de un grupo ecolgico de medidas inusualmente similares. Los inusuales patrones de estructura en Jamaica pueden reflejar diferencias de recursos con respecto a otras islas, su proximidad a reas de origen, o ambos. Las variaciones encontradas en Cuba y Gran Cayman, pueden ser los resultados de constreimientos climaticos en los recursos de esas islas, que estan expuestos regularmente a patrones de clima templado. A continuacin se discuten los patrones de distributin de las especies de aves de las Indias Occidentals en el contexto de esos constreimientos ecolgicos. Se describe la existencia de contrapartes ecolgicos en diferentes islas, habitat o cambio de tamao debido a competencia variable y otros patrones similares. Tambien se indican las situaciones donde las reglas ecolgicas parecen haber sido presionadas por las distribuciones actuates de aves. En muchos casos las interacciones entre variacion ecolgica de una especie y sus distribuciones taxonmicas son fcilmente aparentes; ms anlisis al nivel de subespecie producir ejemplos de esta interaccin. En conclusin se comparan los patrones de estructura de la comunidad de aves de las Indias Occidentals con aquellos en ocho islas neotropicales unidas al continente ("land bridge islands"). Las regresiones para socios de grupos ecolgicos en relacin al total de especies de aves terrestres de las Indias Occidentals describe muy cercanamente las mismas relaciones para socios insectvoros y frugvoros en islas unidas al continente. El patrn de las Indias Occidentals slo difiere notablemente del de las islas unidas al continente en el caso de los nectarivoros. Los patrones de saturaci6n de habitats difieren y las separaciones entre socios se puede presentar raramente en las islas unidas al continente, probablemente porque la relacin especie-area es muy diferente de aquellas en las Indias Occidentals. Sim embargo la convergencia de al menos algunos de los patrones estructurales de todas las islas neotropicales sugiere que algun da podrn entenderse los constreimientos del ensamble de la comunidad para comunidades tan grandes como la de las 200 especies de Trinidad. Con este conocimiento deber ser fcil ms entender los constreimientos ecolgicos que trabajan en las diversas avifaunas tropicales continentales.
10.2307/40157559|We used spot-map methods to census birds in two plots (40 ha and 80 ha) representing the early and middle stages of primary succession generated by the meandering of the Manu River in southeastern Peru in 1983 and 1985. We distinguished seven distinct successional stages beginning with the first plant communities growing on open beaches (Tessaria: stage 1) and proceeding through mature floodplain forest (stage 7). Each successional stage was more structurally and floristically complex. One plot was dominated by early successional vegetation (stages 1-5) and the other was dominated by middle-to-late stages (5-6). We supplemented spot-map data with mist netting to census nonterritorial species, principally nectarivores and frugivores. Because the earliest successional stage (Tessaria) covered only small (<3 ha) areas on any given meander tongue, we censused six additional stands to characterize their bird communities. Species richness increased along the successional gradient, but not uniformly. Structurally simple Tessaria stands (stage 1) contained more diverse communities of breeding birds than the next two successional stages, which appeared to have few resources available to birds. After stage 3, breeding species richness increased by 31-71 species per successional stage as a distinct canopy layer formed (stage 4), fruiting trees became more available (stages 5-6) and the vertical structure of the forest became fully developed (stage 7: 71 more species than stage 6). Early successional bird communities (stages 1-3) were dominated by a few very abundant insectivores and omnivores, but wanderers from the adjacent forest plus Nearctic and austral migrants seasonally outnumbered breeding residents. Many species that breed in Tessaria stands were restricted to just one or two of the seven stands censused. The middle stages of succession had the highest estimated richness, abundance, and biomasses of nectarivores and frugivores. Nectarivore abundance reflected the huge stands of Heliconia that dominate the understory of mid-successional stages. Bark foragers reached their highest abundance in late successional stages as the dominant canopy tree species of middle successional stages (e.g., Cedrela odorata) began to die off, but remained standing. Middle successional stages lacked many of the insectivores characteristic of more structurally complex mature forest. Among the missing species were understory flockers, ant-followers, ground foragers, and many arboreal insectivores that participate in canopy flocks. Species of early and middle stages tended to be more abundant on average than those of mature forest. Early-/and late-successional bird communities had few species in common, and many congeners segregated along this successional gradient. Most species characteristic of early successional vegetation, however, were also found in many other kinds of natural and anthropogenic disturbances. The Tessaria beaches of the Manu lacked most species endemic to the same successional stage on the larger rivers in the Amazon system. Mid-successional stages had relatively fewer species restricted to them, but some of these species are rare and endemic to southwestern Amazonia. Many characteristic species of floodplains reached their peak abundances in stages 4-6. Mid-successional stages, therefore, may play a greater role in contributing to the unusually high species richness of western Amazonia than had previously been recognized. These results point to the importance of preserving natural, undammed meandering rivers in conserving the avian diversity of Amazonia. Logging and agricultural development of mid-successional floodplain forests probably has a negative impact on regional bird communities. Not all species of the early and middle stages of succession have adapted to human-generated secondary succession. Recovery of the full diversity and richness of tropical bird communities following disturbance may take several hundred years, although care must be taken when extrapolating results from primary to secondary successional gradients. /// Durante 1983 y 1985, se utiliz el mtodo de mapeo de territories para censar aves en dos parcelas (40 ha y 80 ha), las cuales representan las etapas temprana y media de sucesin primaria generadas por los meandros del rb Man en el sureste de Per. Se pudieron distinguir siete etapas de sucesin que van desde las primeras comunidades vegetales que crecen en las playas abiertas (Tessaria: etapa 1), hasta el bosque maduro en la llanura aluvial (etapa 7); siendo cada una de stas etapas ms compleja estructural y floristicamente que las anteriores. Una de las parcelas estuvo compuesta por vegetacin temprana (etapas 1-5), mientras que la otra fue representada por etapas medias a tardas de sucesin (5-7). Para censar especies no territoriales, principalmente aves nectarvoras y frugvoras, se suplment el mtodo de mapeo de territorios con el uso de redes de viento. Debido a que la etapa ms temprana de sucesin (Tessaria) abarc solamente reas muy paqueas (<3 ha) en cada uno de los meandros del no, se censaron seis zonas adicionales para poder caracterizar a las communidades de aves que ste hbitat sostiene. La riqueza de especies de aves se increment a lo largo del gradiente de sucesin florstica, ste incremento sin embargo, no fue uniforme. Las zonas estructuralmente ms simples, compuestas por Tessaria (etapa 1) soportaron comunidades ms diversas de aves anidando que las dos etapas siguientes de sucesin; aparentemente stas ltimas etapas contienen menos recursos disponibles para las aves. A partir de la tercera etapa, la riqueza de especies de aves se increment entre 31 y 71 especies por etapa como resultado de la formacin de una capa adicional de la vegetatin (etapa 4), el aumento en la disponibilidad de rboles frutales (etapas 5 y 6), y el desarrollo completo de la estructura vertical del bosque (la etapa 7 present 71 especies ms que la etapa 6). Las comunidades de aves en las etapas tempranas de sucesin (etapas 1-3), estuvieron compuestas principalmente por unas cuantas especies muy abundantes de insectvoros y omnvoros; las especies errantes del bosque adyacente y las migratorias neotropicales y australes, sin embargo, excedieron estacionalmente en nmero a las residentes anidantes. Muchas de las especies que anidan en zonas dominadas por Tessaria estuvieron restringidas nicamente a una o dos de las siete etapas censadas. Las etapas medias de sucesin tuvieron los niveles ms altos de riqueza, abundancia y biomasa estimadas de frugvoros y nectarvoros; la alta abundancia de stos ltimos refleja la gran cantidad de reas dominadas por Helicorina que ocupan la mayor parte del sotobosque y las etapas medias de sucesin. A medida que las especies de rboles dominantes en las etapas medias de sucesin (e.j. Cedrela odorata) comenzaron a morir permaneciendo de pie, especies que forrajean en la corteza de los rboles alcanzaron su mayor abundancia en las etapas de sucesin tarda. Las etapas medias de sucesin se caracterizaron por la ausencia de muchos de los insectvoros caractersticos de bosques maduros estructuralmente ms complejos; entre las especies ausentes destacan especies de parvadas del sotobosque, especies que se alimentan de hormigas, especies que forrajean en el suelo, y muchas especies de insectvoros arboreos que forman parte de parvadas del dosel. En promedio las especies de las etapas mediana y temprana tendieron a ser ms abundantes que las del bosque maduro. Las comunidades mediana y tarda de aves tuvieron pocas especies en comn, y muchos congneres fueron segregados a lo largo de ste gradiente de sucesin; la mayora de las especies caractersticas de vegetacin temprana fueron sin embargo registradas en muchos otros tipos de perturbaciones naturales y antropognicas. En las playas de Tessaria de Manu no se registraron la mayora de las especies endmicas de la misma etapa de sucesin en rios mayores en el sistema Amaznico. Las etapas medias de sucesin presentaron relativamente menos especies restringidas a ellas, algunas de stas sin embargo, son raras y endmicas de la Amazonia del suroeste. Muchas especies caractersticas de llanuras aluviales alcanzaron sus mayores abundancias en las etapas 4-6; las etapas de sucesin media por consiguiente, probablemente cumplen un papel ms importante al que se haba reconocido previamente en su contribucin a la inusual riqueza de especies de la Amazonia del oeste. Estos resultados sugieren la importancia para conservar la diversidad de aves de la Amazonia, de preservar rios naturales que tengan meandros, y que no formen parte de presas; la tala y el desarrollo de agricultura afectan probablemente a las comunidades regionales de aves de una manera negativa. No todas las especies de aves de etapas tempranas y medias de sucesin se nan adaptado a la sucesin secundaria generada por el hombre, la recuperacin de la total diversidad y riqueza de especies de comunidades de aves tropicales despus de perturbaciones puede tomar varios cientos de aos, se debe tener cuidado sin embargo al extrapolar resultados de gradientes de sucesin primaria a secundaria.
10.2307/40168330|During the 20th century, the economy of Trinidad has changed from an agricultural to an industrial one, with accompanying urbanization. Drainage of swampland, human encroachment into both marshland and foothills, the development of cattle ranches and the neglect of traditional cocoa and citrus estates have brought about significant ecological change. Human population increase has led to both pollution and some over-exploitation of wild areas through tourism. In this century the Horned Screamer and the Blue-and-yellow Macaw have been extirpated from Trinidad, populations of six seed-eating species, mostly Oryzoborus and Sporophila spp., have been decimated by trappers, and the Scarlet Ibis, first encouraged to breed by the establishment of a sanctuary, has recently ceased to do so, possibly because of mismanagement of the sanctuary. Species showing range expansions include Cattle Egret, Southern Lapwing, Yellow-headed Caracara, White-tailed and Pearl Kites, Olivaceous Cormorant, Tropical Mockingbird, and Azure Gallinule. The wintering Dickcissel is present some years in enormous numbers, but entirely absent other years. /// Durante el siglo XX la economa de Trinidad ha cambiado de agrcola a industrial, acompaada por desarrollo urbano. El drenaje de tierras pantanosas, la invasin humana a las reas pantanosas y a las colinas, el desarrollo de ranchos ganaderos y el descudo de las plantaciones de cacao y ctricos, ha producido cambios ecolgicos significativos. El incremento de las poblaciones humanas ha producido cotaminacin, as como sobreexplotacin de reas silvestres para el desarrollo turstico. En este siglo el Anhima cornuta y el Ara ararauna han sido extirpados de Trinidad, poblaciones de seis comedores de semillas, mayormente Oryzoborus y Sporophila spp., han sido destrudas por los cazadores que usan trampas y en un principio se fomento la reproductin del Ibis (Eudocimus ruber) por medio del establecimiento de un sanctuario, pero recientemente ha dejado de reproducirse, probablemente debido al mal manejo del sanctuario. Las especies que muestran expansiones en sus rangos de distributin son la garcita bueyera (Bulbulcus ibis), Vanellus chilensis, Milvago chimachima, Elanus leucurus, Gampsonyx swainsonii, Phalacrocorax olivaceus, Mimus gilbus, y Porphyrula flavirostris. El invernante Spiza americana est presente durante algunos aos en grandes cantidades, pero otros aos est completamente ausente.
10.2307/40157558|The bird community of a small (22-ha) oxbow lake, Cocha Cashu, of the Manu River in the Amazon basin of southeastern Peru was studied during 11 field seasons, 1979-1989. Here, field observations on the population status, interactions with predators, and social systems are summarized for many of the 186 species that regularly occurred there. Oxbow lakes such as Cocha Cashu are characterized by narrow but very productive strips of marsh, shrubs, isolated trees, and vines along their borders. These habitats attract high populations of resident and nonterritorial birds, but also attract predators. In addition to species confined to the lake margins, Cocha Cashu attracted many forest birds to abundant flowering and fruiting trees (especially figs and Lauraceae) and isolated nest sites that provided some protection from mammalian predators. Birds respond to the constraints of limited habitat, high population density, and intense predation through various kinds of group living, including coloniality, cooperative breeding, and mono and multi-species flocking. The various kinds of sociality further influence the kinds of mating systems observed on the lake, with several species showing polygynous mating behavior. Anti-predator adaptations included mobbing of some but not all nest predators, and vigilance coupled with alarm calling against raptors that attack adult birds. Cacicus cela used different escape tactics when faced with different kinds of predators. Mobbing and group vigilance were effective at deterring most, but not all, avian predators.Interspecific aggression appeared to be most intense around cavity nests and some fruiting trees. Possible cooperative breeding was documented for two species in which this behavior has not previously been described (Ramphocelus carbo and R. nigrogularis). Relative to forest habitats, lake-margin birds showed a stronger tendency to form mono-specific than multi-species flocks, perhaps because variable resource availability and high population densities of some species precluded the formation of stable, multi-species flocks. Oxbow lakes strongly affect local patterns of species richness and abundance, but appear to have few specialists that do not occur in other aquatic, wetland, or second-growth habitats associated with riverine systems. The combination of rich foraging and nesting resources concentrated in a small area and high predation pressure influence life histories, population dynamics, and community structure of birds of this oxbow lake. /// Durante 11 estaciones de campo (1979-1989) se estudi a la comunidad de aves de un pequeo recodo de ro (22 ha) en Cocha Cashu en el ro Manu, Per. En ste estudio se resumen las observaciones sobre el estado de la poblacin, interacciones con depredadores, y sistemas sociales para las 168 especies que regularmente ocurren en la zona de estudio. Los recodos tales como Cocha Cashu se caracterizan por contener lineas muy angostas, pero muy productivas de pantanos, arbustos, rboles aislados y vainas a lo largo de sus bordes; stos tipos de hbitats atraen grandes poblaciones de aves residentes y no territoriales, sin embargo tambin atraen depredadores. Adems de las especies confinadas a los mrgenes del lago, Cocha Cashu atrajo muchas aves de bosque hacia los rboles florales y frutales que son muy abundantes (especialmente higos y Laureaceae), y hacia sitios aislados de anidacin que proveyeron de proteccin contra los mamiferos depredadores. La respuesta de las aves a las restricciones de la poca disponibilidad del hbitat, altas densidades de poblacin, y altos niveles de depredacin consiste en distintos tipos de vida en grupo los cuales incluyen colonialidad, anidacin cooperativa, y la formaci6n de parvadas mono y multiespecificas. Los distintos tipos de vida social influyen a su vez las distintas variantes en los sistemas reproductivos que se observan en el lego, existiendo asi distintas especies que muestran un comportamiento reproductivo de tipo polignico. Las adaptaciones contra los depredadores incluyeron el asalto de algunos, pero no todos los depredadores de nidos, y la vigilancia asociada con llamados de alarma contra las rapaces que atacan a las aves adultas; Cacius cela utiliz diferentes tcticas contra distintos depredadores. Los asaltos a depredadores, y la vigilancia en grupo fueron efectivos para auyentar a la mayora, pero no a todas las aves depredadoras. La agresin interespecfica aparent ser ms intensa al rededor de nidos en cavidades y algunos rboles frutales. La posibilidad de anidacin cooperativa se document para dos especies en las cuales no se haba descrito anteriormente (Ramphocelus carbo y R. nigrogularis). Las aves de los mrgenes de los lagos mostraton una mayor tendencia a formar parvadas mono-especficas, en comparacin a las parvadas multi-especficas de las aves de bosque; sto se debe probablemente a que la variable disponibilidad de recursos, y las altas densidades de poblacin de algunas especies imposibilitaron la formatin de parvadas multiespecficas estables. Los recodos de los ros afectan fuertemente los patrones de riqueza especfica y abundancia, stos recodos sin embargo, parecen contener pocos especialistas que no ocurren en otros hbitats acuticos y de humedales de crecimiento secundario asociados a sistemas riverinos. La combinacin de recursos ricos para el forrajeo y la anidacin concentrados en una rea pequea, asi como las altas presiones de depredacin influyen las historias de vida, las dinmicas de poblacin, y la estructura de la comunidad de aves en ste recodo del ro.
10.1525/om.2011.73.1.1|Animals often exhibit predictable geographic variation in morphology, and such ecogeographic patterns reflect local adaptation to varying environmental conditions. The most common of these patterns are termed Bergmann's, Allen's, and Gloger's rules. I studied morphological variation in the Hawaii Elepaio (
10.2307/40168279|The distribution of Andean wetland habitats in the Pleistocene and present is reviewed and considered in relation to the known distribution of waterbirds. Analysis based on suture zones, disjunctions, core areas for endemic taxa, and phylogenetic relationships suggests evolutionary processes closely tied to events in the Pleistocene. The distributions of species that prefer barren habitats suggest a center of origin in the glacial Lake Michn on the Bolivian Altiplano. Other glacial refugia that gave rise to new taxa were Lake Atacama in Chile, Lake Junn in Peru, and the large lakes that previously were present in the Bogot area, Colombia. Semi-open refugia along the Andean slopes had slight evolutionary significance. The inhabitants of Andean marsh habitats are generally poorly differentiated, morphologically, from lowland counterparts, and most probably they immigrated to the area in postglacial time. The colonization of the Andes was almost unidirectional, from the southern lowlands, which has resulted in a strong northward reduction of taxa adapted to barren habitats. The previous lakes of the Bogot area received propagules from other directions, including from North America, but the many marsh birds in this area have not shown adaptive shifts in response to vacant niches in barren habitats. /// Se revee la distribucin de los habitats pantanosos de los Andes tanto durante el pleistoceno como en la actualidad y se los considera en relacin con la distribucin conocidas de aves acuticas. Anlisis basados en zonas de sutura, disjuncin, reas centrales para grupos taxonmicos endmicos y relaciones filogenticas, sugieren procesos de evolucin cercanamente relacionados con sucesos del pleistoceno. La distribucin de especies que prefieren habitats estriles hace suponer que el lago glacial Michn, en el altiplano boliviano, ha sido el centro de origen (de las mismas). Otros refugios glaciales, como el lago de Atacama en Chile, la laguna de Junn en Per y los grandes lagos que se encontraban anteriormente en el rea de Bogot, Colombia, tambin brindaron origen a nuevos grupos taxonmicos. Refugios semidescubiertos en las laderas de los Andes tienen escaso significado a nivel de evolucin. Los habitantes de los habitats pantanosos andinos generalmente presentan pocas diferencias morfolgicas respecto a sus contrapartes en las tierras bajas, y probablemente han emigrado hacia el rea luego de la poca glacial. La colonizacin de los Andes fue casi unidireccional desde las tierras bajas del sur, lo cual ha determinado que hacia el norte se de una marcada disminucin de taxa adaptada a los ambientes estriles. Los lagos que existan anteriormente en el rea de Bogot haban sido colonizados desde otras direcciones, incluyendo Amrica del Norte, pero muchas de las aves acuticas de esta area no muestran cambios adaptativos con respecto a los nichos vacantes en los habitats estriles.
10.2307/40168276|Analysis of geographic variation based on 686 specimens showed that the Least Grebes (Tachybaptus dominicus) of North and Central America, the Greater Antilles, and the Atlantic drainage of South America merit separation as the subspecies brachypterus, dominicus, and brachyrhynchus, respectively. Two smaller isolates, T. d. bangsi of Baja California, and a new subspecies from the Pacific slope of Ecuador are also recognized. Samples from Jamaica and Hispaniola, Cuba, and Puerto Rico differ significantly from each other, but the differences are insufficient to merit recognition as subspecies. Least Grebes from the Atlantic drainage of North America between latitudes 9 and 25N averaged slightly larger than those from the Pacific drainage. No noticeable trends were noted within the range of the species in the Atlantic drainage of South America. /// Al analizar geogrficamente las variaciones que presentan 686 especmenes de zambullidor chico (Tachybaptus dominicus) de Amrica del Norte y Central, las Antillas Mayores y la cuenca atlntica de Sudamrica, se observa que merecen reconocerse subespecies de brachypterus, dominicus y brachyrhynchus, respectivamente. Tambin deben reconocerse como subespecies, dos poblaciones mas pequeas y aisladas: T. d. bangsi, de Baja California y una nueva subespecie en las vertientes del Pacfico de Ecuador. Los ejemplares de Jamaica, Espaola, Cuba y Puerto Rico, si bien se diferencan de manera significativa entre s, no presentan una diferenciacin suficiente como para que sean reconocidos como subespecies distintas. Los zambullidores chicos de la cuenca del Atlntico de Amrica del Norte, entre las latitudes 9 y 25N son estadsticamente ms grandes que aquellos de la cuenca del Pacfico. No se ha notado que exista una tendencia en la variacin dentro del intervalo de distribucin para la especie en la cuenca del Atlntico sudamericano.
10.1525/om.2010.68.1.1|Between December 1951 and April 1967, Thomas R. Howell made 13 separate research trips to Nicaragua. The result was a collection of over 2,000 bird skins and at least 16 publications that form the backbone of Nicaraguan ornithology. In the late 1970s, Howell began working on a manuscript that was intended to be his major contribution to the ornithology of the country. The first version of this "Check-list of the Birds of Nicaragua" was not ready until 1983, and many different typewritten versions circulated among a small but growing number of Nicaraguan biologists for the next two decades. Partly because of Howell's passion for detail and completeness, and finally because of his failing health in the late 1990s, the check-list was never published before his death in December 2004. This monograph remedies what had become a significant obstacle to further studies in the country by providing, in Howell's own words, a comprehensive background for subsequent explorations. It documents the 654 species (611 supported with specimen evidence) known to have occurred in Nicaragua as of 1993, the date of the last substantial revision of the manuscript, and also provides a rationale for anticipating another 44 species. The publication of this significant chapter in the history of Central American bird studies is offered both as a tribute to Tom Howell's enthusiasm and contributions and as a frame of reference and springboard for current and future ornithologists inspired to study the rich and still largely unexplored avifauna of Nicaragua.
10.2307/40157572|This paper reports the findings of several surveys of the avifauna of the region surrounding two remote fishing camps in the upper Ro Orinoco region of Amazonas, Venezuela. This area is of particular interest because it has been little-explored by ornithologists, and because of the predominance in the region of habitats derived from white-sand soils. We provide information on a number of range extensions, including one species (Pale-bellied Mourner, Rhytipterna immunda) for which there were no previous records for Venezuela. We also provide information on the vocalizations, foraging ecology, and habitat preferences for many rare or poorly known species, including Mitu tomentosa, Neomorphus rufipennis, Notharchus ordii, Myrmotherula cherriei, and Hylophilus brunneiceps. Our observations of Hylophilus brunneiceps also have taxonomic implications. The soil-based insularity of the local terra firme habitat as a factor limiting local bird distributions is also discussed. /// Este papel reporta los encuentros de varios reconocimientos de la avifauna de la region rodeando dos campamentos de pezca remotos en la parte superior del Ro Orinoco en la region de la Amazonas, Venezuela. Esta rea es de interes particular porque se ha explorado poco departe de ornitlogos y porque la predominancia de habitacones en la region se diriven de terrenos de arena-blanca. Proveemos informacon sobre varias extensones, incluyendo un especie (Rhytipterna immunda) por el cual no se encuentran archives anteriores en Venezuela. Tambien proveemos informacon sobre las vocalizacones, forraje ecologico, y habitacones preferidas departe de muchos especies raros  poco conocidos incluyendo Mitu tomentosa, Neomorphus rufipennis, Notharchus ordii, Myrmotherula cherrei, y Hylophilus brunneiceps. Nuestras observacones de Hylophilus brunneiceps tambien tiene implicacones taxonomicas. La insulacon de la base terrena cercano, habitacones terra firme, como punto que limita la distribucon de pajaros tipicos tambien se discute.
10.1525/om.2010.69.1.1|Differentiation and speciation without extended isolation appear to be common among migratory animals. Historical oversight of this is probably due to temporal distortion in distribution maps and a tendency to consider that lineages had different historical traits, such as being sedentary or much less mobile. Mobility among cyclic migrants makes population isolation difficult, and diminished levels of intraspecific differentiation occur in avian migrants (I term this "Montgomery's rule"). Nevertheless, many lineages have differentiated despite increased mobility and a high propensity for gene flow, conditions that speciation theory has not addressed adequately. Populations of seasonal migrants usually occur in allopatry and sympatry during a migratory cycle, and this distributional pattern (heteropatry) is the focus of a model empirically developed to explain differentiation in migratory lineages. Divergence arises through disruptive selection from resource competition and heterogeneously distributed cyclic resources. Heteropatric speciation is a type of ecological speciation in which reproductive isolation increases between populations as a byproduct of adaptation to different environments that enhances breeding allopatry and allochrony despite degrees of sympatry that occur during the nonbreeding period in migration cycles. Mating or pair bonding in nonbreeding areas is rare. Patterns such as leapfrog migration and limited morphological divergence suggest that differentiation is driven by these ecological factors rather than by sexual selection or nontemporal changes in the resource base itself, although the additional presence of either of the latter would have additive divergent effects. Migratory lineages provide a largely neglected series of natural experiments in speciation in which to test predictions stemming from this model and others focusing on ecological speciation.
10.2307/40157561|We surveyed birds in an arid valley at 1,500 m elevation in the Andes of western depto. Santa Cruz, Bolivia, in January and February, and in June and July. This is one of the only localities with xeric vegetation to be surveyed in an arid intermontane valley of the Eastern Andes. The 50 species breeding or presumed to be breeding in the arid scrub provides a striking example of high species richness at tropical latitudes. Differences between the surveys in January-February ("summer" wet season) and the one in June ("winter" dry season) show strong seasonality in the presence/ absence or abundance in 32 of the 92 regularly occurring species. Whereas at least 51 species were breeding or probably breeding during the January-February surveys, only five were breeding or probably breeding during the June-July survey. Subcutaneous fat levels were scored as "no fat" or "low" in 95% of all individuals collected. Most species occurring at this Andean locality have primarily lowland, rather than Andean, geographic distributions. /// Investigamos las aves en un valle rido a 1,500 m de altura en los Andes al oeste del Departamento de Santa Cruz, Bolivia, en Enero y Febrero, y en Junio y Julio. Esta es una de las nicas localidades con vegetacin xerofitica a ser investigadas en un valle rido intermontano en los Andes Orientales. Las 50 especies que se reproducen o que se presume que se reproducen en arbustos ridos nos d un notable ejemplo de una gran riqueza de especies en latitudes tropicales. Las differencies entre las investigaciones en Enero-Febrero ("verano" estacin hmeda) y la de Junio ("invierno" estacin seca) muestran una fuerte estacionalidad en la presencia/ausencia o abundancia en 32 de las 92 especies que regularmente estn presentes. Considerando que por lo menos 51 especies se estaban reproduciendo o probablemente reproduciendo durante la investigacin de Enero-Febrero, solamente seis se estaban reproduciendo o probablemente reproduciendo durante la investigacin de Junio-Julio. Los niveles de grasa subcutnea fueron calificados como "sin grasa" o "bajo" en 95% de todos los individuos colectados. La mayoria de las especies que ocurren en esta localidad andina tienen primordialmente distribucin geogrfica de tierres bajas, en vez de andina.
10.2307/40166826|We examined changes in group sizes of House Finches (Carpodacus mexicanus; hereafter "finches"), at feeders over the course of establishment of a novel disease caused by the bacterium Mycoplasma gallisepticum. Our goal was to identify factors linked with the severity of decline in sizes of finch groups, with the aim of inferring causes of variation in rates of disease transmission and disease-induced mortality. We found that only site-specific density-dependence consistently predicted the sizes of declines in finch group sizes. By contrast, there were no differences in declines among habitats known to differ in finch abundance, or among regions with different overall abundances of finches. We also failed to find differences in declines along a gradient of winter temperature. Our results suggest that the effects of disease on host populations in this system are primarily determined by interactions among finches at individual sites, with little consistent influence of factors extrinsic to these local groups. Received 6 April 2005, accepted 29 November 2005. /// Examinamos los cambios en el tamao de grupos de Carpodacus mexicanus en los alimentaderos durante el establecimiento de una enfermedad nueva causada por la bacteria Mycoplasma gallisepticum. Nuestra meta fue el identificar los factores asociados con la severa reduccin en el tamao de los grupos de C. mexicanus, con el objetivo de inferir causas en la tasa de transmisin de la enfermedad y de mortalidad debido a la enfermedad. Encontramos que solamente factores denso-dependientes y especficos a un sitio, predijeron constantemente las dimensiones de las reducciones en el tamao de los grupos de C. mexicanus. En contraste, no hubo diferencias en las reducciones entre los habitats que se sabia que se diferenciaban en cuanto a abundancia de C. mexicanus, o entre regiones con diferentes abundancias de C. mexicanus. No pudimos encontrar diferencias en las reducciones a lo largo de un gradiente de temperaturas invernales. Nuestros resultados sugieren que los efectos de la enfermedad en la poblacin hospedera en este sistema estn principalmente determinados por interacciones entre C. mexicanus en sitios nicos, con poca influencia de factores extrnsecos a esos grupos locales.
10.2307/40157564|Over 50 species of Neotropical birds have been recorded foraging for animal prey in bromeliads. Of these bird species, Pseudocolaptes lawrencii is one of the most specialized. At a montane rainforest site in Costa Rica, 74% of its documented foraging efforts were in epiphytic bromeliads. P. lawrencii selected large bromeliads and foraged for arthropods within leaf litter and organic debris trapped in the plants. Based on our analyses of the bromeliad prey base and bird stomach contents, P. lawrencii was an opportunistic predator of the litter-inhabiting arthropods. Birds consumed dermapterans, orthopterans, arachnids, and coleopterans in proportions equal to the prey's availability and did not select for prey size. However, P. lawrencii avoided isopods. P. lawrencii did not consume aquatic insect larvae, which were the largest component of the bromeliad prey base and occurred in 80% of bromeliads sampled. /// Mas de 50 especies de aves Neotropicales han sido estudiadas mientras forrajean por animates en bromelias. De estas especies de aves, Pseudocolaptes lawrencii es una de las mas especializadas. En un bosque tropical montaoso en Costa Rica, se encontr que el 74% de los atentos de forrajeo fueron en bromelias epifiticas. Pseudocolaptes lawrencii selecciono bromelias grandes y forrajeo en las hojas y los escombros orgnicos atrapados en las bromelias. Basado en nuestro anlisis de los animales encontrados en las bromelias y el contenido estomacal de las aves, concluimos que P. lawrencii es un predador oportunistico de los artrpodos que viven en los escombros orgnicos. Las aves consumieron dermapteros, orthopteros, aracnidos y coleopteros en proporciones idnticas a la disponibilidad de estas presas. No se encontr seleccin de presas, sin embargo, P. lawrencii evito isopodos. No consumi larvas de insectos acuticos, la presa mas abundante y se encontr en un 80% de las bromelias estudiadas.
10.2307/40166814|Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater, hereafter "cowbirds") provide one of the best case studies for demonstrating the need to consider multiple spatial scales in managing a species and designing conservation strategies. An adaptive management program to reduce cowbird parasitism levels through reduction of cowbird abundance should mirror the multiple spatial scales to which cowbirds respond. At the continental scale (>50 km), cowbirds are widespread across most of North America, and their abundance declines with distance from the center of their distribution in the Great Plains and Midwest. Generally, cowbird parasitism frequency is highest in, and declines with distance from, the Midwest; however, abundance at that broad scale is by no means indicative of parasitism frequency at the local level, because regional, landscape, and local factors play a significant role in cowbird abundance, distribution, and parasitism levels. At the regional scale (10-50 km), cowbird abundance and cowbird:host ratio decline with increasing forest cover, resulting in lower parasitism levels in the Midwest, where most of the relevant research has been conducted. Studies from forested regions of the East and Far West and from nonforested systems are under-represented; nevertheless, it is clear that increasing the spatial extent of contiguous habitat for host species is a key priority in cowbird management. Within the landscape scale (<10 km), density and dispersion of feeding sites strongly influence cowbird distribution and abundance. Cowbirds are known to commute >10 km between feeding and breeding habitats; removal of feeding opportunities for cowbirds near targeted management areas is a key control measure. Removal of livestock-centered feeding sites has traditionally been a management focus. However, cowbirds use agricultural fields, residential backyards, and recreational areas, too, and those feeding opportunities need to be considered in land-use planning and zoning. Locally, cowbird breeding abundance and distribution are strongly influenced by habitat type, vegetation structure, and passerine species richness; however, variation in regional or local cowbird abundance may affect local cowbird distribution. Local management should strive to protect habitat for large host populations while reducing habitat edges and, in grasslands, known cowbird perching sites. Comparative studies of cowbird breeding-site use are needed in most regions, and future comparisons would benefit if field researchers used a consistent, standardized protocol for vegetation measurement. /// Molothrus ater provee de uno de los mejores estudios de caso que demuestran la necesidad de tener en cuenta distintas escalas para el manejo de la especie y el diseo de estrategias de conservatin. Un programa de manejo adaptativo que busque reducir los niveles de parasitismo del M. arter por medio de la reductin de su abundancia debera reflejar las distintas escalas espaciales a las cuales los M. ater responden. A una escala continental (>50 km), los M. ater estn extendidos a lo largo de prcticamente toda Norteamrica, y su abundancia disminuye con la distancia del centro de su distribucin (Grandes Planicies y Medio Oeste). Generalmente, la frecuencia de parasitismo por M. ater es mayor en el Medio Oeste, y disminuye con la distancia al mismo. Sin embargo, su abundancia a una escala mayor de ninguna manera es indicativa de las tasas de parasitismo a nivel local, porque los factores a nivel regional, paisaje, y locales juegan un rol significativo sobre la abundancia y distribucin de los M. ater, y los niveles de parasitismo. A una escala regional (10-50 km), la abundancia de M. ater y la relacin M. ater: hospedero disminuye con el incremento de la cobertura por bosques, implicando un menor nivel de parasitismo en el Medio Oeste, lugar donde se llevaron a cabo la mayora de los estudios relevantes. Estudios realizados en reas boscosas del Este y Lejano Oeste, y de sistemas no boscosos estn sub-representados. Sin embargo, es obvio que en estos sistemas un incremento en la extensin del hbitat continuo apto para las especies hospederas es una prioridad clave en el manejo de M. ater. Dentro de la escala a nivel paisaje (<10 km), la densidad y dispersin a sitios de alimentacin influye marcadamente sobre la distribucin de M. ater y su abundancia. Se sabe que los M. ater pueden moverse a >10 km entre hbitats de alimentacin y reproductin en cosecuencia, la remocin de oportunidades de alimentacin cercanas a zonas-objetivo de manejo, es una medida clave para su control. Sin embargo, los M. ater tambin usan campos agrcolas, parques residenciales, y reas recreativas, por lo que aquellas oportunidades de alimentacin deberan ser consideradas dentro de las planificaciones de uso y zonificacin. Localmente, la abundancia de los M. ater reproducindose y su distribucin est altamente influenciada por el tipo de hbitat, la estructura de la vegetacin, y la riqueza de Paseriformes. Sin embargo, la variatin regional o local de la abundancia de M. ater puede afectar su propia distribucin. Las personas a cargo del manejo local deberan procurar proteccin de hbitats que mantuvieran grandes poblaciones de hospederos, junto con la reduccin de sus bordes y, en los pastizales, la reduccin de sitios usados por M. ater como percha. En la mayora de las regiones es necesario llevar a cabo estudios comparados sobre el uso de sitios reproductivos por parte del tordo, y las futuras comparaciones se beneficiaran si los estudios de campo se basaran en el uso de protocolos consistentes y estandarizados de las medidas vegetacin.
10.1525/om.2010.67.1.162|We examined genetic and morphological characteristics of the Song Sparrows (
10.1525/om.2010.67.1.90|The Slate-throated Redstart (
10.2307/40157544|Analyses of several characters indicate that two bamboo specialist foliage-gleaners in the Furnariidae--Anabazenops fuscus (White-collared Foliage-gleaner) of southeastern Brazil and Automolus dorsalis (Dusky-cheeked Foliage-gleaner) of western Amazonia--are sister species. The nest site of Automolus dorsalis, above-ground in cavities, indicates that this species does not belong with other species in the genus. Similarities in foraging behavior and vocalizations, as well as similarities in plumage, provide evidence for a close relationship between dorsalis and Anabazenops. Although some morphological similarities are evident, analyses of eight mensural characters were equivocal with regard to a close relationship between these two species. We recommend that A. dorsalis be moved to the genus Anabazenops. Relationships of these two species with other taxa in the subfamily Philydorinae are investigated. /// Anlisis de varios caracteres indican que dos especies de la familia Furnariidae--Anabazenops fuscus (White-collared Foliage-gleaner) del sureste de Brasil y Automolus dorsalis (Dusky-cheeked Foliage-gleaner) del oeste de la Amazona--son especies hermanas. Las dos especies son especialistas de bamb. La ubicacin del nido de Automolus dorsalis en huecos naturales del bamb indica que la especie no pertenece al gnero Automolus. Los nidos de las otras especies de Automolus se ubican en huecos entre las barrancas. Semejanzas entire comportamiento de forrajeo y vocalizaciones, as como semejanzas entre el plumaje, proveen evidencias de una relacin entre dorsalis y el gnero Anabazenops. Aunque algunas semejanzas morfolgicas sean evidentes, anlisis de ocho medidas son ambiguas con respecto a una relacin entre las dos especies. Recomendamos que A. dorsalis sea cambiado al gnero Anabazenops. Relaciones con otros grupos taxonmicos de la subfamilia Philydorinae son investigadas.
om.2010.67.1.103|Subspecies have been viewed as important biological entities that provide evidence of adaptation and early stages of speciation and that stimulate biological research on behavior, ecology, and other non-systematic questions. However, the history of subspecies and the lack of congruence with molecular data have led to questions about whether they help or hinder studies in avian biology and conservation. The Sage Sparrow (
10.1525/om.2012.74.1.47|Human-altered landscapes often include structural features, such as higher levels of impervious surface cover (ISC) and less vegetation, that are likely to affect the transmission of avian vocalizations. We investigated the relationships between human habitat modifications and signal transmission by measuring four acoustic parameterspersistence, reverberation, and signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of broadcast tones, as well as absolute ambient noise levelin each of 39 avian breeding territories across an anthropogenic disturbance gradient. Using a geographic information system, we quantified the amounts of different habitat features (e.g., ISC, grass, trees) at each site; a principal component analysis was used to identify which of these habitat features commonly co-occurred (e.g., habitat suites ). Finally, we used a model selection process to explore whether the habitat suites predicted the acoustic parameters. Tone persistence was higher and reverberation was lower in more open, grassy habitats than in areas with more vertical anthropogenic structures. In more human-modified sites, ambient noise levels were higher, leading to lower SNR. In habitats with low levels of human modification, we found that even small increases in the total amount of opengrassy area will quickly improve the acoustic space of singing birds. However, our results also indicated that there may be a critical level of human habitat modification above which the addition of natural areas does not benefit avian communication. Thus, we recommend that managers focus their efforts on preserving pre-existing natural habitat, rather than attempting to introduce it into areas that have already received significant human modification.
10.2307/40168334|The papers in this monograph are reviewed in the context of the progressive stages of ornithological knowledge and of current neotropical ornithological research in general. Active fields of study not represented in these pages are listed, to reflect more completely the breadth of research on birds of the neotropics in the 1980's. /// En esta monografia se repasan los artculos en los contextos de las etapas progresivas del conocimiento ornitolgico y de las investigaciones de ornitologa neotropical, en general. Se mencionan los campos de investigacin activos que no estn representados en estas pginas para reflejar de la manera ms completa posible la amplitud de las investigaciones en aves neotropicales en la dcade de 1980.
10.2307/40168327|Nest, eggs, and downy young of the recently described White-headed Flightless Steamer-Duck (Tachyeres leucocephalus) are described and compared with those of other species of steamer-duck. Nests of T. leucocephalus, like those of other steamer-ducks, are shallow bowls lined heavily with down, and typically located in dense woody shrubs on peninsulas and off-shore islands. Egg size of T. leucocephalus is most similar to that of T. brachypterus, but eggs of all species of Tachyeres overlap substantially in their dimensions. Downy young of T. leucocephalus differ from those of congeners in eyelid and back color, and facial pattern. These characters are used to construct a key to the downy young of the four species of Tachyeres. /// Los nidos, huevos, y pichones de Tachyeres leucocephalus estan descritos y comparados con los de las otras especies del gnero. Los nidos de T. leucocephalus semejan cuencos pocos profundos forrados con plumn y estan situados tipicamente abajo de arbustos ubicados en islotes y peninsulas. Los huevos de T. leucocephalus tienen un tamao mas semejante a los de T. brachypterus pero las dimensiones de los huevos de todas las especies de Tachyeres se superponen. Los pichones de T. leucocephalus se distinguen de otros del mismo gnero en el color de los prpados y la espalda, y el dibujo de la distribucin de las manchas de la cabeza. Se presenta una clave para la identificacin de los pichones de patos vapores.
10.2307/40168297|Recent classifications of the Ochthoeca diadema species-group recognize three species, diadema, frontalis, and pulchella, with the taxon jelskii considered a subspecies of pulchella. The present study shows that the species-group is composed of two superspecies, diadema, which includes pulchella, and frontalis, which includes jelskii. Frontalis is sympatric with diadema or pulchella throughout its range from central Colombia to central Bolivia. Jelskii is parapatric with the three other species. /// Recientes clasificaciones del grupo-especie ("species-group") Ochthoeca diadema reconocen tres especies, diadema, frontalis y pulchella, con el taxn jelskii considerado como subespecie de pulchella. El presente estudio muestra que el grupo-especie est compuesto por 2 superespecies, diadema que incluye a pulchella y frontalis que incluye a jelskii. Frontalis se encuentra junto con ("sympatric") diadema o pulchella en todo su rango de distribucin desde el centro de Colombia hasta el centro de Bolivia. Jelskii se encuentra en distintas reas ("parapatric") que las otras tres especies.
10.2307/40166811|Cowbird (Molothrus spp.) control is a major focus of recovery-oriented management of two endangered riparian bird species,the Least Bell's Vireo (Vireo bellii pusillus) and Southwestern Willow Flycatcher (Empidonax traillii extimus). During the past 20 years, annual trapping of cowbirds at Least Bell's Vireo and Southwestern Willow Flycatcher breeding sites has eliminated or reduced parasitism in comparison with pretrapping rates and, thereby, significantly increased seasonal productivity of nesting pairs. Enhanced productivity, in turn, has resulted in an 8-fold increase in numbers of Least Bell's Vireos; Southwestern Willow Flycatcher abundance, however, has changed little, and at some sites has declined despite cowbird control. Although generally successful by these short-term measures of host population response, cowbird control poses potential negative consequences for long-term recovery of endangered species. As currently employed, cowbird control lacks predetermined biological criteria to trigger an end to the control, making these species' dependence on human intervention open-ended. Prolonged reliance on cowbird control to manage endangered species can shift attention from identifying and managing other factors that limit populations--in particular, habitat availability. On the basis of our analysis of these long-term programs, we suggest that cowbird control be reserved for short-term crisis management and be replaced, when appropriate, by practices emphasizing restoration and maintenance of natural processes on which species depend. /// El manejo orientado hacia la recuperacin de dos especies de aves ribereas Vireo belli pusillus y Empidonax trailli extimus se ha focalizado principalmente en el control de los Molothrus spp parsitos. Durante los pasados 20 aos, la captura anual de los Molothrus en las reas de nidificacin de Vireo belli pusillus y Empidonax trailli extimus ha eliminado o reducido el parasitismo en comparacin con las tasas previas a la captura y, en consecuencia, ha incrementado significativamente la productividad estacional de las parejas reproductivas. Ese mejora en productividad, a su vez, ha resultado en que el nmero de Vireo belli pusillus se incrementara 8 veces. La abundancia de Empidonax trailli extimus en cambio, ha variado poco, e incluso en algunos sitios, se ha reducido a pesar del control de los Molothrus. Aunque aparentemente el control de Molothrus fue exitoso por los resultados obtenidos a corto plazo, el control de los Molothrus posee consecuencias potencialmente negativas para la recuperacin a largo plazo de las especies en peligro. De la forma en que es actualmente aplicado, el control de los Molothrus carece de criterios biolgicos predeterminados que permitan dejar de aplicarlo. Esto implica que las especies que se quiera proteger dependan eternamente de la intervencin humana. El hecho de que que el manejo de las especies en peligro se base en la dependencia prolongada en el control de los Molothrus podra distraer la atencin sobre la identificacin y el manejo de otros factores que limitan dichas poblaciones-en particular, la disponibilidad de hbitat. Basndonos en nuestro anlisis de estos programas a largo plazo, sugerimos que el control de Molothrus quede reservado para las crisis de manejo de corto plazo. Cuando fuera apropiado, es de esperar que dicho manejo sea reemplazado por prcticas enfatizadas hacia la restauracin y el mantenimiento de los procesos naturales de los cuales esas especies en realidad dependen.
10.2307/40168328|Nesting data were collected over two seasons at two study sites approximately 20 km apart in Buenos Aires Province, Argentina. Community composition differed between sites. The data include brief descriptions of nests, eggs, and nestlings. The duration of incubation and nestling periods are also presented. Maximum likelihood estimators of nest survivorship are calculated separately for nests with eggs and nests with nestlings. Nestlings of eight species were parasitized with botfly larvae (probably Philornis sp.). Broadly speaking, species that nest in complex or closed nests have higher survivorship than species which build cup nests. However, a comparison of mortality of the Rufous Hornero and the Saffron Finch using nests of the former indicates that the behavior of the species contributes greatly to survivorship. Saffron Finches nesting in hornero nests show poorer survivorship than the horneros themselves. Nonetheless, Saffron Finches using these nest sites have superior survivorship to those which use other nests. The demographic data also permit the rejection of the hypothesis of prevention of total nest failure as the selective agent favoring asynchronous hatching in the Rufous Hornero. /// Se coleccion informacin de anidacin durante dos temporadas en dos sitios distantes 20 km entre s, en la provincia de Buenos Aires, Argentina. La composicin de la comunidad difiere entre ambos sitios. Los datos incluyen breves descripciones de nido, huevos y polluelos. Tambin se presenta informacin respecto a la duracin de la incubacin y el perodo de anidacin. Se calculan separadamente las estimaciones mximas de sobrevivencia, para nidos con huevos y nidos con polluelos. Polluelos de ocho especies estaban parasitados por larvas de la mosca (probablemente Philornos sp.). Generalmente, las especies que anidan en nidos complejos o cerrados tienen mayor tasa de sobrevivencia que las especies cuyos nidos tienen forma de copa. Sin embargo una comparacin de la mortalidad del hornero Rufous y el Pinzn Saffron usando nidos de hornero indican que la sobrevivencia est relacionada con el comportamiento de la especie. Pinzones Saffron que anidan en nidos de horneros, tienen menor sobrevivencia que los mismos horneros. A pesar de lo cual, los pinzones que usan nidos de hornero tienen mayor sobrevivencia que los pinzones que usan otros nidos. La informacin demogrfica tambin permite rechazar la hiptesis de prevencin de fracaso total de anidacin como un agente selectivo favoreciendo la incubacin as-incrnica del hornero Rufous.
10.2307/40166721|The discovery that socially monogamous birds copulate outside the pair-bond compels us to view mating and parental care relationships separately. The operation of sexual selection via extra-pair copulation suggests that the mating behaviors of monogamous species are more similar to those of promiscuous species than previously thought. Males in many promiscuous species aggregate in display arenas called leks, which form in response to females seeking copulation. This chapter reviews and synthesizes evidence that the mating systems of monogamous birds that pursue extra-pair copulations resemble those of promiscuous species. Razorbills (Alca torda) demonstrate that males in a monogamous species form leks for extra-pair copulation. Results from studies of Purple Martins (Progne subis) indicate that lek mechanisms may contribute to colony formation. These studies, combined with other evidence, suggest that the lek models can operate in many more contexts than those in which they were originally proposed. The "hidden lek" hypothesis predicts that the same mechanisms that form leks in promiscuous species can also explain certain aggregations of territories of monogamous species.
10.2307/40157551|A number of bird species in southwestern Amazonia are associated with stands of bamboo. We studied the birds in bamboo in two regions, eastern Rondnia near the Rio Jiparan where a single small patch was located, and near Alta Floresta, in northern Mato Grosso, where several extensive bamboo stands were explored. We found a moderately large bamboo avifauna at each site, with eight species in Rondnia and ten at Alta Floresta. In species accounts, we discuss the significance of these records and provide notes on the ecology and behavior of these bamboo species. For most of these species, these records represented significant range extensions. Four species were recorded in Brazil for the first time. We also located a population of Poecilotriccus tricolor, previously known from a unique type, in Rondnia. We determined that it should be treated as a weakly differentiated subspecies of Poecilotriccus capitalis. /// Vrias espcies de aves no sudoeste da Amaznia associam-se com bambuzais. Investigamos as aves de bamb em duas regies: na regio leste de Rondnia, perto ao rio Jiparan onde encontramos um pequeno bambuzal, e perto de Alta Floresta, no norte de Mato Grosso, onde emploramos vrios bambuzias. Encontramos uma avifauna bastante diversa associada com bambs, composta de oito espcies em Rondnia, e de dez em Atla Floresta. No relato de espcies, discutimos a importncia destes registros, e fornecemos imformaes sobre a ecologia e o comportamento destas espcies. Para a maioria destas espcies, estes registros representam um aumento significante na rea de distribuio. Quatro espcies foram registradas no Brasil pela primeira vez. Tambm, localizamos uma populao de Poecilotriccus tricolor, antes conhecido smente do holotipo, em Rondnia. Determinamos que esta forma  uma subespcie pouco differenciada de Poecilotriccus capitalis.
10.2307/40168331|Although Cuba has strict hunting regulations and protective laws, as well as an excellent system of preserves, some species and races of Cuban birds are endangered. Here, I discuss the current status of these and bring the Red Data Book up-to-date for Cuban birds. Most of the endangered races are those inhabiting keys off the coast of Cuba. Endemic Cuban species are, as a whole doing well and benefitting from newly established preserves. Two endemics, the Cuban Kite and the Zapata Wren are very rare and, perhaps, nearly extinct. The wren may recover now that its Zapata Swamp habitat is protected. Gundlach's Hawk is more common than reported by earlier workers. The Bachman's Warbler, although recently sighted, is essentially extinct as a non-breeding bird on Cuba. /// A pesar de que Cuba posee regulaciones estrictas para la caza y leyes de proteccin, as como un excelente sistema de reservas, algunas especies y razas de aves cubanas estn en peligro de extincin. En el presente trabajo discuto la situacin actual de estas aves y actualizo el Libro Rojo de Datos ("Red Data Book") para las aves cubanas. La mayora de las razas que estn en peligro de extincin son aquellas que habitan en los cayos fuera de la costa de Cuba. Las especies endmicas cubanas, en general, se encuentran bien, y aprovechando del nuevo sistema de reservas establecido. Dos especies endmicas, el Gaviln Caguarero y la Fermina son muy raros y posiblemente cercanos a su extincin. La poblacin de la Fermina podra recuperarse ahora que la cinaga de Zapata est protegida. El Gaviln Coliargo es ms comn ahora que lo que haban manifestado otros autores anteriormente. La Bijirita de Bachman, aunque ha sido vista recientemene, se le puede considerar virtualmente extinguida, aunque no cra en Cuba.
10.2307/40168282|This paper reports on the distribution, behavior and ecology of 43 species from the Huancabamba region in the Andes of northern Peru. Included are 23 species new to Peru, and five recorded in that country for the second time. The rediscoveries of Grallaricula peruviana, Myiophobus lintoni, and Incaspiza ortizi are reported. The natural history of additional rare species, including Gallinago imperialis, Nyctibius leucopterus, Hapaloptila castanea, Myornis senilis, Notiochelidon flavipes, and Buthraupis wetmorei, is also discussed. Lists of species recorded along two elevational gradients (west slope of western cordillera and east slope of eastern cordillera) are presented, with an indication of elevational distribution, relative abundance, and social system. Twenty-six species are found to be at the southern limits of their distribution; most of these are replaced by closely related congeners south of the Ro Maran. The Ro Maran valley represents one of the most important barriers to montane forest birds along the eastern slope of the Andes. Its efficacy as a barrier is enhanced by the relative aridity of the western slope of the Andes, which increases as one moves south in Peru. /// En este trabajo se presenta informacin sobre la distribucin, el comportamiento y la ecologa de 43 especies de la regin de Huancabamba en los Andes del norte peruano. Se incluyeron 23 especies nuevas para el Per y cinco registradas por segunda vez en ese pas. Se informa sobre el redescubrimiento de Grallaricula peruviana, Myiophobus lintoni y Incaspiza ortizi. Tambin se discuten aspectos de la historia natural de especies raras, incluyendo Gallinago imperialis, Nyctibius leucopterus, Hapaloptila castanea, Myornis senilis, Notiochelidon flavipes y Butharaupis wetmorei. Se presentan listas de especies localizadas a lo largo de 2 gradientes elevacionales (la vertiente oeste de la cordillera occidental y la vertiente este de la corillera oriental) con indicaciones de distribucin altitudinal, abundancia relativa y sistema social. Se encontr que 26 especies estn en el lmite sur de sus rangos de distribucin, la mayora de las cuales estn reemplazadas al sur del Ro Maran por sus congneres mas cercanamente relacionadas. El valle del Ro Maran representa una de las barreras ms importantes para aves de ceja de selva a lo largo de las vertientes orientales de los Andes. Su eficacia como barrera se ve realzada por la relativa aridez de las vertientes occidentals de los Andes, las cuales se tornan an ms ridas a medida que uno se dirige al sur del Per.
10.1525/om.2012.74.1.101|Increases in anthropogenic noise (hereafter noise) exposure may negatively affect reproductive success for breeding birds because noise may mask sounds of approaching predators. However, we recently found that increases in noise amplitude positively influenced nest survival through a decrease in nest predation. On the basis of this result, we hypothesized that noise may result in (1) a numerical decrease in predators in noisy areas or (2) a functional predator response, in which predators are present but noise interferes with their ability to locate nests. We separated the effects of nest predation risk due to a numerical decrease in predators and risk associated with activity at the nest using artificial-nest experiments on control and noisy treatment sites and within a broad range of noise exposure. Our results concurred with results from natural nests regarding patterns of predation, which suggests that common predators may be less abundant in areas with increased noise exposure. Additionally, cameras paired with artificial nests photographed Western Scrub-Jays (
10.2307/40587709|Ernst Mayr's empirical research at the American Museum of Natural History between 1931 and 1953 was focused largely on species-and genus-level systematics in the rich but then little-known bird fauna of the Southwest Pacific. Here, through four case studies, I trace the enormous advances he made in systematics knowledge, practice, and theory, culminating in his development of the Biological Species Concept, with its supporting treatise, Systematics and the Origin of Species (Mayr 1942). La investigacin emprica de Ernst Mayr en el Museo Americano de Historia Natural entre 1931 y 1953 se enfoc principalmente en la sistemtica a nivel de especies y gneros de la avifauna rica pero entonces poco conocida del sudoeste del Pacfico. En este ensayo, a travs de cuatro estudios de caso, recapitulo los enormes avances que l hizo sobre el conocimiento, la prctica y la teora de la sistemtica, culminando en su desarrollo del concepto biolgico de especie, con el tratado que lo avala, Sistemtica y el Origen de las Especies ("Systematics and the Origin of Species", Mayr 1942).
10.2307/40168304|Frequent reports of prey depletion by shorebird populations at temperate latitudes suggest that competition for food may be an active agent of natural selection on timing of migration. Yet rates of change in prey populations in coastal habitats used by migratory shorebirds in the tropics have not been considered. Therefore, I measured invertebrate densities in four intertidal feeding areas on the Pacific coast of Panama. Marked sites in each area were sampled in mid- January, late February or early March, and late April of 1978. Sites in one area, La Boca, were sampled again in mid- January and late February, 1979. Prey sizes were determined from fecal castings collected in the four areas and from a published analysis of the stomach contents of plovers collected in one of the study areas. During the 7-week period prior to the departure of wintering birds in April, the density of all invertebrate macrofauna decreased by 12%. The density of prey taxa increased by 10% during this same period. Prey patchiness, within study areas, decreased significantly during this 7-week period. The standing stock of polychaetes, within the size range taken by shorebirds, increased from 14.1 cm/m in early March to 26.8 cm/m in late April. The increase in standing stock was accompanied by a decrease in the density of large individuals and a decrease in the average length of worms. Changes in the density and patchiness of prey taxa were not consistent from year to year. The observed lack of consistency points toward disruptive rather than synchronizing selection on timing of migration in the neotropics. /// Noticias frecuentes sobre el agotamiento de presas producidos por poblaciones de aves costeras en latitudes templadas, sugieren que la competencia por comida puede ser un agente activo de seleccin natural del tiempo de migracin. Sin embargo hasta ahora no se han considerado los cambios occurridos en las poblaciones de presas de los habitats costeros utilizados por aves migratorias costeras en lois trpicos. Por ello med la densidad de invertebrados en cuatro reas litorales de alimentatin en la costa del Pacfico en Panam. Se tomaron muestras en cada sitio marcado a mediados de enero, fines de febrero o principios de marzo y fines de abril de 1978. En el rea La Boca se tomaron muestras de los sitios marcados a mediados de enero y fines de febrero de 1979. El tamao de las presas fue determinado por el contenido de las feces juntado en las cuatro reas y por datos publicados sobre anlisis de contenidos estomacales de chorlitos, coleccionados en una de las reas de estudio. Durante el perodo de siete semanas previo a la partida en abril de las ves in vernantes, la densidad de toda la macrofauna de invertebrados disminuy un 12%. La densidad de la taxa de las presas incremento un 10% durante ese mismo perodo. Concentraciones dispersas de presas ("prey patchiness") en el rea de estudio, disminuyeron de manera significativa durante este periodo de siete semanas. La cantidad de lombrices, dentro del rango de tamaos comidos por los chorlitos, se incremento de 14, 1cm/m a comienzos de marzo hasta 26,8 cm/m a fines de abril. Este incremento en la cantidad de poliquetos (lombrices) fue acompaado por una disminucin en la densidad de individuos grandes y una disminucin en el tamao promedio de las lombrices. Los cambios en la densidad y distributin de concetracin ("patchiness") de la taxa presa no fueron consistentes de un ao a otro. La ausencia de consistencia observada indica una seleccin disruptiva en lugar de sincronizante en el tiempo de migracin en los trpicos del Nuevo Mundo.
10.2307/40157560|One reason suggested for the high avian species diversity in tropical forests is increased specialization on resources that are absent in temperate habitats. This study investigates in detail one such specialization, namely foraging for arthropods in suspended aerial leaf-litter in lowland tropical rainforest. Up to 16 species at two southwestern Amazonian sites constitute a guild of specialized dead-leaf foragers that make up roughly 11% of the region's insectivorous bird species. Most dead-leaf specialists are ovenbirds (Furnariidae) or antbirds (Formicariidae) that are characteristic members of mixed-species foraging flocks in the understory or canopy. These specialists, compared with other insectivores, tended to use more acrobatic postures and manipulated foraging substrates with the bill or feet. These species segregated to some extent by habitat, including several congeneric replacements. The guild reaches its highest diversity in a belt across southwestern Amazonia and along the base of the Andes, where bamboo and other disturbance-related microhabitats add to forest heterogeneity. Individual dead leaves, as resources for birds, were abundant in all forest types and supported higher prey densities (number per leaf) than adjacent live foliage. Prey density was highest in larger leaves, especially in large, crumpled Cecropia leaves. The arthropod fauna of aerial leaf-litter was similar among seasons, habitats, and sites, being dominated by spiders, roaches, other orthopterans, and small beetles. This contrasts greatly with arthropods available on live foliage. Guild members differed significantly from each other in either foraging height, size or type of leaves searched, diet composition, or prey size, although overlaps between species pairs were usually high (0.900). Although twice as many species were supported in low-lying forest than in upland forest, ecological overlaps among species in each habitat were usually similar. Behavioral similarity among species was not related to dietary overlap. Size of prey taken, however, was correlated with bill size, except that the largest species, Xiphorhynchus guttatus, ate surprisingly small prey. Diet composition of all species differed significantly from prey availability in dead leaves, with orthopterans selected by all species and small roaches and spiders often avoided. Censuses of 92 mixed-species flocks revealed no negative and only two positive associations between species, suggesting that birds join flocks independent of other species present. Co-occurring Myrmotherula leucophthalma and M. ornata in the same flocks were not aggressive and converged in foraging height and substrate use. In contrast, co-occurring Automolus foliage-gleaners tended to diverge in foraging height and exhibited overt aggression. Niche segregation among dead-leaf foragers therefore represents a balance between benefits and constraints imposed by feeding in a mixedspecies flock; that is, increased vigilence and group defense of territories versus feeding close to potential competitors. Dead-leaf specialization evolved independently in several bird families but shows strong phylogenetic constraints among genera. Phylogenetic study of Myrmotherula antwrens revealed that all specialist species were related and that they have been evolving separately from other antwrens perhaps for as long as nine million years. Foraging specialization is therefore a primitive trait within this group (and probably others), appearing before the radiation of modern species. Study of present-day ecology may not elucidate factors leading to the evolution of such specialization, especially without concurrent phylogenetic analyses. /// Una de las razones sugeridas para la gran diversidad de aves en los bosques tropicales es el aumento en la especializacin sobre recursos que estn ausentes en hbitats templados. Este estudio investiga en detalle una de tales especializaciones, esto es, el forrajeo para artrpodos en hojarasca suspendida en bosques tropicales de tierras bajas. Hasta 16 especies de aves en dos sitios en el suroeste de Amazonia consituyen un tipo de forrajeadores especializados en la hojarasca, los cuales forman aproximadamente el 11% de las especies de pjaros insectvoros de la regin. La mayora de los especialistas en hojarasca son pizpitas (Furnariidae) o pjaros comehormigas (Formicariidae), que son miembros caractersticos de bandadas mixtas de forrajeo en el sotobosque o el dosel. Estos especialistas, comparados con otros insectvoros, tendieron a colocarse en posturas ms acrobticas y a manipular el sustrato de forrajeo con las patas o el pico. Estas especies se segregaban por hbitat, hasta cierto punto, incluyendo varios congneres que les reemplazaban. Esta asociacin alimentaria alcanz su mayor diversidad en la faja a travs del suroeste de Amazonia y a lo largo de la base de los Andes, donde las bambas y otros microhbitats de reas perturbadas le aaden heterogeneidad al bosque. Hojas muertas individuales, como recurso para los pjaros, eran abundantes en todos los tipos de bosque y sostuvieron una mayor densidad de presas (nmero por hoja) que el follaje vivo adyacente. La densidad de presas fue mayor en hojas ms grandes, especialmente en las hojas arrugadas grandes de Cecropia. La fauna artrpoda de la hojarasca suspendida fue similar a travs de las estaciones del ao, hbitats, y sitios, siendo dominada por araas, cucarachas, otros ortpteros y escarabajos pequeos. Esto contrasta grandemente con los artrpodos disponibles en el follaje vivo. Miembros de las distintas asociaciones alimentarias difirieron significativamente uno del otro en altura de forrajeo, tamao o tipo de hojas forrajeadas, composicin de la dieta, o el tamao de la presa, aunque los solapamientos ecolgicos entre parejas de especies fueron usualmente altos (0.900). Aunque se encontr el doble de especies en terrenos bajos comparados con bosques en terrenos altos, el solapamiento ecolgico entre las especies en cada hbitat fue usualmente similar. La similaridad en el comportamiento entre especies no estuvo relacionada con el solapamiento diettico. El tamao de las presas cazadas, sin embargo, estuvo correlacionado con el tamao del pico, excepto que la especie ms grande Xiphorhynchus guttatus, consumi presas sorpresivamente pequeas. La composicin diettica de todas las especies difiri significativamente de la disponibilidad de presas en hojas muertas, siendo los ortpteros seleccionados por todas las especies, mientras que cucarachas y araas pequeas fueron evitadas. Censos de 92 bandadas de especies mixtas no revelaron asociaciones negativas y solamente dos asociaciones positivas entre especies, lo que sugiere que las aves se asocian con bandadas independientemente de qu otras especies estn presentes. Individuos de Myrmotherula leucophthalma y M. ornata que se encontraban en las mismas bandadas no eran agresivos y convergan en la altura y substrato utilizado. En contraste, Automolus tendi a divergir en la altura de forrajeo y exhibi agresin abiertamente. La segregacin de nichos entre forrajeros de hojas muertas, por lo tanto, representa un balance entre beneficios y costos impuestos por alimentarse en bandadas de especies mixtas; esto es, aumento en la vigilancia y la defensa grupal de territorios versus la alimentacin cerca de competidores potenciales. La especializacin en hojas muertas evolucion independientemente en varias Familias de aves, pero muestra fuertes restricciones filogenticas entre Gneros. El estudio filogentico de Myrmotherula revel que todas las especies especialistas estaban relacionadas y han estado evolucionando separadamente de otros del mismo Gnero, quizs por tanto como nueve millones de aos. La especializacin en el forrajeo, por lo tanto, es un rasgo primitivo dentro de este grupo (y probablemente otros), que aparece antes de la radiacin evolutiva de especies modernas. El estudio de la ecologa actual puede no elucidar factores que conlleven a la evolucin de tal especializacin, especialmente sin los anlisis filogenticos correspondientes.
10.1525/om.2011.72.1.1|
               
10.2307/40168280|The neotropical avifauna, comprising approximately 3300 species, is the richest in the world. Most of the 1100 species of the suboscine Passeriformes (suborder Tyranni) are found in South America where they outnumber oscines (song-birds) two to one and locally three to one. The majority of suboscines is insectivorous, including many tyrant-flycatchers and furnariids adapted to open, and even terrestrial, environments. In South America the seed-eating niche is left to the oscines (finches, buntings, grosbeaks). From an historical perspective, the neotropical avifauna is comprised of (a) a Southern Hemisphere Element, (b) a Northern Element, (c) a South American Element, and (d) an Unanalyzed Element. The known fossil avifauna of the Cenozoic includes 60 families (9 extinct), 193 genera (51 extinct), and 274 species (94 extinct) of landbirds and freshwater birds. Most of these fossil South American birds are non-passeriform, only 10 families of Passeriformes being represented. Pliocene faunas are quite distinct from present avifaunas at both generic and specific levels. Faunal turnover rates in the Pleistocene are markedly increased as compared to the Late Tertiary and may reflect increased rates of allopatric speciation during the Pleistocene. Numerous bird species are clustered in fairly restricted portions of the extensive neotropical lowlands, and characterize a series of areas of endemism (15 in the neotropical forests and seven in the South American nonforest regions) each with 10 to 50 species and many subspecies. Most contact zones of subspecies and closely related parapatric species cluster between the central portions of areas of endemism. Large Amazonian rivers delimit, along their wide lower portions, the ranges of many bird species. Ecological interactions of species, rather than the inability to cross the watercourses or to circumvent rivers in the headwater region, often appear to cause coincidence of species' range borders with rivers. Another conspicuous biogeographic phenomenon is the wide disjunction of numerous conspecific populations. Consistent and coterminous distribution patterns exist in diverse bird families that differ widely in their feeding preferences; examples include omnivorous toucans and trumpeters, insectivorous puffbirds, jacamars, woodpeckers, antbirds, flycatchers, and icterids, and predominantly frugivorous guans, parrots, cotingas, manakins, and tanagers. An attempt is made to determine historical interrelationships of some areas of endemism on the basis of the phylogenetic patterns of selected endemic taxa and data on geological and climatic-vegetational changes (range fragmentations). Extensive vegetational fluctuations during the Pleistocene probably determined the present patterns of differentiation and distribution of most subspecies and species of neotropical birds. Analysis of the older patterns of speciation pertaining to the long time span of the Tertiary period will follow when more information becomes available on the geological and paleontological history of the neotropical avifauna. /// La avifauna neotropical consta de aproximadamente 3.300 especies, siendo la ms rica del mundo. La mayora de las 1.100 especies de los Passeriformes suboscines (suborden Tyranni) se encuentran en Sudamrica, donde sobrepasan en dos a uno y localmente tres a uno a los oscines (aves cantoras). La mayora de los suboscines son insectvoros, incluyendo muchos atrapa moscas y furnariidae adaptados a espacios abiertos e inclusive medios terrestres. En Sudamrica el nicho correspondiente a los semilleros ha sido ocupado por oscines (pinzones, trigueros y pepiteros). Si analizamos la avifauna neotropical a travs de una perspectiva histrica, vemos que est compuesta por (a) un elemento del hemisferio sur; (b) un elemento del norte; (c) un elemento sudamericano y (d) un elemento aun no analizado. La avifauna fsil del cenozoico, actualmente conocida, incluye 60 familias (9 extinguidas), 193 gneros (51 extinguidos) y 274 especies (94 extinguidas) de aves acuticas y terrestres. La mayora de estas aves fsiles de Sudamrica son no-passeriformes, slo 10 familias de Passeriformes estn representadas. Las avifaunas del plioceno son muy diferentes a las actuales, a nivel de gnero y de especie. Los cambios acaecidos en la fauna durante el pleistoceno son notablemente mayores si los comparamos con el terciario tardio y podran reflejar una mayor taza de especiacin aloptrica en diferentes reas durante el pleistoceno. Numerosas especies de aves se agrupan en porciones relativamente reducidas de las extensas llanuras neotropicales, las cuales caracterizan una serie de reas de endemismo (15 para los bosques neotropicales y siete para las regiones no boscosas de Sudamrica) cada una posee entre 10 y 50 especies y muchas subespecies. La mayora de las zonas de contacto entre subespecies y tambin especies paraptricas cercanamente relacionadas se agrupan entre las partes centrales de las reas de endemismo. Los grandes ros amaznicos delimitan a lo largo de sus anchos cauces inferiores, los rangos de distribucin de muchas especies de aves. Las interacciones ecolgicas de las especies, ms que la inhabilidad para cruzar el agua o salvar las nacientes de los ros, a menudo parece determinar la coincidencia en los lmites de los rangos de distribucin de las especies, con los ros. Otro fenmeno biogeogrfico conspicuo es la amplia disyuncin de numerosas poblaciones conespecficas. Diversas familias de aves que difieren ampliamente en sus preferencias alimenticias, presentan modelos de distribucin consistentes y limtrofes; por ejemplo omnvoros tales como tucanes y trompeteros; insectvoros como "puffbirds," "jacamars," carpinteros, "antbirds," atrapa moscas y de la familia Icteridae y de manera predominante frugvoros "guans," loros, cotingas, "manakins" y "tanagers." Se intenta determinar de manera histrica la interrelacin existente en algunas reas de endemismo en base a modelos filogenticos de determinados grupos taxonmicos endmicos e informacin en cambios geolgicos y en la vegetacin debidos a factores climticos ("range fragmentation"). Las extensas fluctuaciones en la vegetacin durante el pleistoceno, probablemente determinaron los modelos actuales de diferenciacin y distribucin para la mayora de las especies y subespecies de aves neotropicales. Cuando se disponga de ms informacin sobre geologa y la historia paleontolgica de la avifauna neotropical se llevarn a cabo anlisis de modelos de especiacin ms antiguos, pertenecientes al largo perodo del Terciario.
10.2307/40157550|Deforestation of Brazil's Atlantic Forest has threatened many plant and animal species with extinction. Here, the importance of protected areas in the Atlantic Forest Region of Brazil for the conservation of many of the most endangered bird species in the region is emphasized. A list of species is presented for four national parks and two biological reserves within the Atlantic Forest domain. /// O desmatamento da Mata Atlntica no Brasil tern ameaado de extino muitas espcies de plantas e animais. Este trabalho enfatiza a importncia das reas protegidas na regio da Mata Atlntica para a conservao de aves consideradas ameadas de extino. Listas de espcies de aves so apresentadas para quatro parques nacionais e duas reservas biolgicas pertencentes ao Domino da Mata Atlntica.
10.2307/40157546|The "brown" assemblage of New World spine-tailed swifts consists of three groups distinguishable by size: small C. vauxi, medium C. chapmani, and large C. pelagica. Two of the three species groups are migratory: the vauxi group undertakes short movements from northern temperate to tropical latitudes, and some populations in tropical highlands may move to lowlands. The pelagica group makes long-distance movements. Chaetura andrei is not a valid taxon; the nominate form pertains to the vauxi species group. It is proposed that the taxa C. andrei meridionalis and C. chapmani viridipennis be elevated to species rank. The latter two taxa are probably more closely related to C. pelagica than to the species in which they are currently placed. All three groups, small, medium, and large, constitute the pelagica superspecies. /// El grupo "caf" de los vencejos de cola de espina del Nuevo Mundo esta constituido por tres subgrupos diferenciados por el tamao: el pequeo, C. vauxi, el mediano, C. chapmani y el grande, C. pelagica. Dos de los tres subgrupos emigran despus del perodo de nidificacin; dentro del subgrupo de vauxi, los que viven en la zona templada norte emigran a latitudes mas trpicales y al parecer los que viven en las zonas templadas tropicales emigran desde las partes altas a las bajas. El subgrupo pelagica emigra transequatorialmente. Se encontr que C. andrei no es un taxn vlido, la especie pertenece al subgrupo C. vauxi. Tambin se encontr que las subespecies C. andrei meridionalis y C. chapmani viridipennis estn taxonomicamente mas cercanas a C. pelagica que sus respectivas especies. Los tres subgrupos, el pequeo, el mediano y el grande pertenecen a la superespecie pelagica.
10.2307/40157554|A review of the composition of five montane avifaunas in northwestern South America and southern Central America confirmed the distinctness of these communities from adjacent lowland areas. Excluding species that depend on aquatic resources, 1,800 bird species from 52 families were classified according to principal life zones in this review. There were 1,366 species associated with lowland areas, whereas 877 species occurred in montane areas (i.e., generally above 1,200 or 1,500 m elevation). Nearly one-half of these montane species are restricted to these high elevations, with the greatest diversity found within subtropical zones, followed by temperate and pramo zones, respectively. Comparisons with lowland avifaunas revealed that montane communities differed in trophic structure as well as familial composition. Specifically, montane communities had proportionately more nectarivores than expected by chance. When compared to randomly generated montane communities, nearly 30% of the families differed significantly in number of species from that expected if these communities were randomly assembled; eight families were more species-rich and seven families less species-rich in montane areas than expected. Moreover, montane areas had a greater number and percentage of species with restricted ranges than did lowland areas. Overall, 217 montane species (24.7%) had small geographic ranges; 142 of these were restricted to one of the five montane regions reviewed here. As evidence of the endangerment of these montane communities, nearly 10% (82) of the species are listed as threatened or near-threatened. Montane habitats are under extreme pressure from human activities. Most urban centers are located in or close to the mountains in the regions reviewed here. Given the high diversity and singularity of these avifaunas, together with high levels of habitat alteration, protection of montane ecosystems should become a priority for conservation efforts in the Neotropics. /// Una revisin de la composicin de cinco avifaunas de montaa en el Noroeste de Sur Amrica y el sur de Centro Amrica confirm la diferencia de estas comunidades con las de las tierras bajas. Sin incluir especies que dependen de recursos acuticos, 1,800 especies de aves de 52 familias fueron clasificadas de acuerdo a las principales zonas de vida. 1,366 especies fueron asociadas con areas de tierras bajas, de las cuales 877 especies se encontraron en areas montaosas (generalmente encima de 1,200-1,500 m de elevacin). Casi la mitad de estas especies de areas montaosas estn restringidas a estas elevaciones altas, encontrndose la mayor diversidad en zonas subtropicales, seguidas por zonas templadas y de pramo respectivamente. Comparaciones con avifaunas de tierras bajas revelan que las comunidades de montaa difieren en estructura trfica as como en la composicin de las Familias. Especficamente, las comunidades de montaa tuvieron proporcionalmente mayor nmero de nectarvoros que los esperados al azar. Se compararon avifaunas de montaas con comunidades ensambladas al azar usando simulaciones de Monte Carlo. En estas comparaciones, cerca del 30% de las familias se diferenciaron significativamente en el nmero de especies; ocho fueron mas ricas y siete fueron menos ricas en areas montaosas de lo esperado. Adems, las areas de montaa tuvieron un mayor nmero y porcentaje de especies con rangos restringidos que las de tierras bajas. Un total de 217 especies de montaa (24.7%) tuvieron rangos geogrficos pequeos; 142 de estas fueron restringidas a una de cinco regiones de montaa que fueron revisadas en este trabajo. Cerca del 10% (82) de estas especies se encuentran enlistadas como amenazadas o casi-amenazadas, lo que evidencia el peligro de extincin de estas comunidades de montaa. Los areas de montaa se encuentran bajo extrema presin por actividades humanas. Muchas de los centros urbanos se encuentran localizados en  cerca de las montaas que fueron revisadas. La proteccin de los ecosistemas de montaa debe ser una prioridad para los esfiierzos de conservacin en los Neotrpicos debido a la alta diversidad y singularidad de estas avifaunas, as como a los altos niveles de alteracin en los habitats.
10.2307/40166817|Brood parasitism by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater; hereafter "cow- birds") reduces the reproductive output of individual hosts and has been the subject of considerable research and management activity. Many current management practices aimed at controlling parasitism are based on outdated perceptions. Among these are that cowbirds are increasing in range and abundance; cowbirds are relatively new to North America; cowbird parasitism reduces or limits population sizes of host species; new host populations are defenseless against parasitism; and cowbird control increases reproductive output and populations of hosts. Instead, cowbird numbers have declined significantly in recent decades. Cowbirds have been in North America for at least a million years, and their numbers likely peaked when mammalian megafauna were present during the Pleistocene. Thus, effects on hosts have occurred over a long period, and any recent extinction threats posed by cowbirds are likely attributable to anthropogenic changes. Because of this long history of contact with cowbirds, many hosts that nest in nonforested habitat have had long periods to evolve adaptations against parasitism, and evidence clearly demonstrates that they retain those defenses from past bouts of parasitism and, hence, are often well defended when parasitism is renewed. Cowbird parasitism is only one of many factors that can limit avian populations, and despite such factors, avian populations can still produce enough young to remain stable. There is no evidence that cowbirds are a serious threat to the survival of any passerines other than several taxa that are listed as federally endangered species. Cowbird control does not always translate into increased population sizes for those endangered species, and habitat loss is the most critical factor limiting their populations. Current management programs based on these outdated perceptions have shifted the focus away from the most critical issue threatening avian populations, namely anthropogenic habitat disturbance. A serious shortcoming of cowbird control programs is that they are open-ended; this is because local cowbird numbers in control areas are usually unchanged year after year as a result of extensive dispersal of new cowbirds into those areas. In some cases, control programs have become excessive and have been co-opted by special interests, particularly in Texas, where a broad statewide program to control cowbirds has been used to legitimize environmentally harmful actions that can hinder recovery of endangered species and affect avian diversity in general. We provide a series of questions that should be addressed before the initiation of cowbird control programs. Most importantly, we encourage managers to determine whether cowbirds are an important pressure on the host populations they oversee, whether resources used for control programs could have greater management benefits if used differently, and whether it is possible to define conditions that will indicate that annual cowbird control is no longer needed. /// El parasitismo de cra por Molothrus ater reduce el xito reproductivo de los individuos hospederos, por lo que ha sido el sujeto de considerable nmero de actividades de investigacin y manejo. Muchas de las prcticas de manejo usuales que pretenden controlar el parasitismo se basan en percepciones anticuadas. Entre ellas, que M. ater est incrementando su rango de distribucin y abundancia, que M. ater es relativamente nuevo en Norteamrica, que el parasitismo de M. ater reduce o limita los tamaos poblacionales de las especies hospederas, que las nuevas poblaciones de hospederos estn indefensas contra el parasitismo, y que el control de M. ater aumenta el tamao y la productividad de las poblaciones de los hospederos. Sin embargo, el nmero de M. ater ha declinado significativamente en dcadas recientes. M. ater ha estado en Nortemrica por al menos un milln de aos, y sus nmeros pareciera que tuvieron un mximo en el Pleistoceno, cuando la megafauna de mamferos estaba an presente. En consecuencia, los efectos sobre sus hospederos han existido durante un largo perodo, y cualquier riesgo de extincin reciente propuesto que involucrara a M. ater, podra ser atribuido a cambios antropognicos. Debido a esta larga historia de contacto con M. ater, muchos hospederos de hbitats no boscosos han tenido un largo perodo para desarrollar adaptaciones en contra del parasitismo. Adems, existe evidentia clara de que retienen aquellas defensas desarrolladas durante eventos pasados de parasitismo y que, frecuentemente, estn bien defendidos cuando el parasitismo se renueva. El parasitismo por M. ater es slo uno de los numerosos factores que pueden limitar las poblaciones de aves, y a pesar de dichos factores, estas poblationes pueden an producir suficientes juveniles como para permanecer estables. No existe evidencia de que M. ater sea una seria amenaza para la supervivencia de ningn Passeriforme excepto aquellos pocos taxa que estn en la lista de especies en peligro a nivel federal. El control de M. ater no siempre se traduce en un incremento en el tamao poblacional de aquellas especies en peligro, y la prdida de hbitat es el factor ms crtico que limita dichas poblaciones. Los programas de manejo usuales basados en aquellas percepciones anticuadas han desviado el foco alejndolo del ms crtico problema que amenaza las poblaciones de aves, nos referimos a los disturbios antropognicos del hbitat. Un serio defecto de los programas de control de M. ater es que no tienen fin. Esto es debido a que los nmeros de M. ater en reas de control se mantienen prcticamente constantes ao a ao como resultado de una amplia dispersin de nuevos individuos hacia dichas reas. En algunos casos, los programas de control se han convertido en excesivos y han sido adoptados por intereses especiales, particularmente en Texas, donde un amplio programa que abarca todo el estado para el control de M. ater, ha sido utilizado para legitimar prcticas ambientales dainas que pueden obstruir la recuperacin de especies en peligro y afectar la diversidad de aves en general. Nosotros proponemos una serie cuestiones que deben ser abordadas antes de iniciar los programas de control de M. ater. Ms an, alentamos a los responsables del manejo para que determinen si los M. ater son una presin importante sobre las poblaciones de hospederos que ellos vigilan, si los recursos usados en los programas de control de M. ater podran resultar en manejos ms beneficiosos al ser invertidos en forma diferente, y si es posible definir las condiciones que indiquen que el control anual de M. ater no es ms necesario.
10.1525/om.2011.70.1.10|We initiated ornithological exploration of the sub-Himalayan region of Myanmar in 1997. The work had five main goals: to conduct a basic inventory of the avifauna, to identify special conservation needs, to investigate ornithogeographic affinities, to build knowledge of the ecology and seasonal movement patterns of the large number of poorly known birds, to clarify pathogen patterns, and to create a distributional database for understanding how climate change is affecting local and regional distribution over time. After five expeditions to northern Myanmar, we have recorded 413 species, expanded the known range for several species, and described a new subspecies for
10.2307/40168310|Using censuses from three forest types on Jamaica, West Indies, I compared the proportions of migrant wood warblers (Pamlinae) and resident nineprimaried oscines, to determine whether statistical evidence for an impact of the migrants on the resident species exists. These two assemblages contributed equally to the total numbers of birds in the main community sampled (Southern Riverine Forest). Migrants accounted for 20 to 55 percent of individuals in Southern Riverine forest, 12 to 19 percent in Montane Humid Forest, and 30 to 41 percent in Mangrove woodland. Numbers of migrants and residents were not correlated across 12 riverine forest censuses, indicating neither repulsion nor positive covariation. Results are compared with data reported by Lack (1976). In summer when migrant warblers are absent, resident populations are augmented by arrival of three abundant breeding migrants. The case of the Yellow Warbler, Dendroica petechia, cited by Lack as evidence for competitive displacement by migrants, is reexamined and an alternative explanation presented. Compared with resident species, the assemblage of migrant warblers showed comparable species richness and variability across censuses, but showed greater species diversity, despite greater morphologic uniformity. The results of this study and Lack's obtained six years apart show good concordance. /// He comparado la proporcin de gorjeadores migratorios (Parulinae) y oscines residentes de nueve primarias, utilizando censos de tres tipos de bosques en la isla de Jamaica en las Antillas, para determinar si existe una evidencia estadstica sobre el impacto que las aves migratorias causan a las residentes. Estos dos grupos contribuyen de igual manera al nmero total de aves en la principal comunidad estudiada (bosque riverino del sur). La cantidad de aves migratorias fue de 20 a 55 por ciento de los individuos en el bosque riverino del sur, 12 a 19 por ciento en bosque montaoso hmedo y 30 a 40 por ciento en bosques de manglares. Los nmeros de aves migratorias y residentes no tuvieron correlacin a lo largo de 12 bosques riverinos censados, indicando que no existe ni repulsin, ni covariacin positiva. Los resultados son comparados con information que presentara Lack (1976). En el verano cuando los gorjeadores migratorios estn ausentes, las poblaciones residentes aumentan con la llegada de tres especies migratorias anidadoras abundantes. Se reexamina y presenta una explicacin alternativa respecto al caso del gorjeador amarillo, Dendroica petechia, citado por Lack como evidencia de desplazamiento competitivo por una especie migratoria. Comparados con especies residentes, el grupo de gorjeadores migratorios presentaba una riqueza y variedad de especies comparable a lo largo de los censos, pero se observa una mayor diversidad de especies, a pesar de la mayor uniformidad morfolgica. Los resultados de este trabajo y los de Lack, hace 6 aos, muestran una buena concordancia.
10.2307/40168333|Individuals of a tropical forest avian community at a site near Catemaco in southern Veracruz were captured, banded, and observed during field work in the winters of 1973-1974 and 1974-1975. The site was revisited and resampled in November-December 1980 and 1981. Vegetation on the site had been changed during the interim as a result of human activity, from mature forest to various forms of disturbed forest and second growth. Changes in avian populations associated with habitat alteration included drastic decreases in total numbers of forest-dwelling migrant and resident species and individuals on the site and changes in the behavior of individuals from territoriality to nomadism. We hypothesize that destruction of mature forest will cause declines in forest-dwelling tropical residents and wintering migrants that breed in temperate North America. /// Durante un estudio de campo llevado a cabo en los inviernos 1973-1974 y 1974-1975, se capturaron, anillaron y observaron individuos de una comunidad de aves de un bosque tropical en una localidad cerca de Catemaco en el sur de Veracruz. El sitio fue visitado nuevamente y se volvieron a juntar muestras en noviembre-diciembre de 1980 y de 1981. Como resultado de la actividad humana durante el intern, la vegetacin del sitio ha cambiado de bosque maduro a varios tipos de bosque alterado y vegetacin secundaria. Cambios en las poblaciones de aves, asociados con la alteracin del habitat, incluyeron disminucin drstica en el nmero total de especies que habitan en el bosque, tanto residentes como migratorias, ya sea para cantidad de especies o de individuos; as mismo hubo cambios en el comportamiento de individuos--anteriormente territoriales, ahora nmades. Nuestra hiptesis es que la destruccin del bosque maduro causar reducciones en las especies tropicales residentes que habitan en el bosque, as como en las aves migratorias que invernan en la regin pero que reproducen en regiones templadas de Amrica del Norte.
10.2307/40166820|This review grew out of our realization that models play an increasingly important role in conservation but are rarely used in the research of most avian biologists. Modelers are creating models that are more complex and mechanistic and that can incorporate more of the knowledge acquired by field biologists. Such models require field biologists to provide more specific information, larger sample sizes, and sometimes new kinds of data, such as habitat-specific demography and dispersal information. Field biologists need to support model development by testing key model assumptions and validating models. The best conservation decisions will occur where cooperative interaction enables field biologists, modelers, statisticians, and managers to contribute effectively. We begin by discussing the general form of ecological modelsheuristic or mechanistic, "scientific" or statisticaland then highlight the structure, strengths, weaknesses, and applications of six types of models commonly used in avian conservation: (1) deterministic singlepopulation matrix models, (2) stochastic population viability analysis (PVA) models for single populations, (3) metapopulation models, (4) spatially explicit models, (5) genetic models, and (6) species distribution models. We end by considering the intelligent use of models in decision-making, which requires understanding their unique attributes, determining whether the assumptions that underlie the structure are valid, and testing the ability of the model to predict the future correctly. Received 30 August 2005, accepted 25 November 2005. /// Esta revisin surgi al reconocer que los modelos juegan un papel cada vez ms importante en conservacin, pero son raramente usados en las investigaciones realizadas por la mayora de los bilogos que trabajan con aves. En la actualidad se estn creando modelos complejos que involucran mecanismos que podran incorporar ms del conocimiento que han adquirido los bilogos de campo. Estos modelos requieren que los bilogos de campo provean informacin ms especfica, utilicen tamaos muestrales mayores y que en algunos casos provean nuevos tipos de datos, como demografa en hbitats especficos e informacin sobre dispersin. Los bilogos de campo deben apoyar el desarrollo de modelos a travs de la prueba de los supuestos claves y la validacin de los modelos. Las mejores decisiones en conservacin ocurrirn al existir una interaccin cooperativa y efectiva entre bilogos de campo, bilogos que realizan modelos, estadsticos y personas que trabajan en manejo. Comenzamos discutiendo la forma general de los modelos ecolgicosheursticos o que describen mecanismos, "cientificos" o estadsticosy luego destacamos la estructura, las fortalezas y debilidades y las aplicaciones de seis tipos de modelos que se utilizan comnmente en la conservacin de aves: (1) modelos determinsticos matriciales de una nica poblacin, (2) modelos de anlisis estocsticos de viabilidad poblacional (AVP) para una nica poblacin, (3) modelos metapoblacionales, (4) modelos espacialmente explcitos, (5) modelos genticos y (6) modelos de la distribucin de las especies. Terminamos considerando el uso inteligente de modelos en la toma de decisiones, lo que requiere entender los atributos especficos de cada modelo, determinar si los supuestos que subyacen a la estructura son vlidos y probar la habilidad del modelo para predecir el futuro correctamente.
10.2307/40157537|The collection and preservation of helminth parasites from birds under field conditions are discussed and suggestions are made for identification and deposition of specimens. We also report on the parasitic helminths observed during study skin preparation during an expedition to Bolivia in 1989. Of the approximately 272 bird species collected (1,110 individuals), nematodes were detected in 43 species (16%). Nematodes from 28 of the bird species could be identified, representing 12 species and 10 genera. This represents the only published report of nematode parasites of birds from Bolivia, including 2 new host and 12 new geographic records. These data provide additional baseline information on the helminth parasites of Neotropical birds that is necessary to understand the consequences of parasitic infections. /// Se discuten la coleccin y preservacin de parsitos helmintos de las aves bajo condiciones de campo y se hacen sugerencias para la identificatin y deposicin de los especmenes. Tambin reportamos sobre los helmintos parasticos observados durante la preparacin de especmenes de aves colectados en una expedicin a Bolivia en 1989. De las aproximadamente 272 especies de aves colectadas (1,110 individuos), 43 especies (16%) hospedaban nematodos. En 28 de las especies de aves, se pudieron identificar nematodos representando doce especies y 10 gneros. Esto representa el nico reporte publicado de parsitos de nematodos para las aves de Bolivia, incluyendo dos nuevos huspedes y 12 nuevos rcords geogrficos. Estos datos proporciona informacin adicional para datos bsicos sobre parsitos helmintos de aves neotropicales. Datos como estos son necesarios para poder lograr entender las consequencias de infecciones parasticas.
10.2307/40157540|In this paper we document with analysis of tape recordings the unusual song of the Neotropical Lawrence's Thrush (Turdus lawrencii). This song belongs in the category of "vocal appropriation" under the broad heading of "vocal copying" in the sense of Dobkin (1979). Study of recordings of about 30 individuals of Lawrence's Thrush, all probably males, revealed imitations of 173 bird species, as well as those of frogs and insects. Males sing for hours from song posts in the rain-forest canopy, with intermissions of five to 15 minutes, presumably during which they feed. The song is a halting, thrasher-like (Mimidae) rendition that sometimes exceeds 250 phrases without a break. In such a sequence, vocal copying of as many as 51 bird species has been detected. Individual singers almost never respond visibly to playback of such song, suggesting that it is directed to females. Based on its vocal behavior, we predict this species will prove to have an atypical thrush mating system, either promiscuous or polygynous. Copying by three other species of Neotropical thrushes is discussed. /// En este artculo documentamos el canto excepcional de Turdus lawrencii a travs de un analysis de grabaciones. Este canto est clasificado dentro de la categora de "apropriacon vocal" bajo el concepto general de "copias vocales" en el sentido de Dobkin (1979). El estudio de grabaciones de 30 individuos de Turdus lawrencii, probablamente machos en su totalidad, revela imitaciones de 173 especies de aves, tanto como imitaciones de ranas e insectos. Machos cantan por horas desde perchas en el docel del bosque lluvioso, con interrupciones de cinco a 15 minutos, perodo en el cual supuestamente se alimentan. El canto con sus cortas pausas se parece a las vocalizaciones tpicas para la familia Mimidae y a veces excede 250 frases sin descansar. En tales sequencias, se han detectado copias vocales de hasta 51 especies de aves. Los individuos cantantes casi nunca responden de forma obvia a las grabaciones de sus propios cantos, indicando que stos son dirigidos a las hembras. Basandonos en su comportamiento vocal, predecimos que esta especie tiene un sistema de apareamiento promiscuo o polignico, cual no es tpico para los trdidos. Tambin discutimos las imitaciones por tres otras especies neotropicales de la familia Turdidae.
10.1525/om.2011.70.1.64|We analyzed passerine biodiversity and phylogeography in the Sino-Himalayan region with respect to neighboring areas, especially the Siberian taiga zone to the north and tropical Asia southeast of the Himalayas and mountainous parts of southwest China. Fresh results, informative about evolutionary processes in that area, were obtained mainly by the application of new methods in passerine systematics, acoustic and molecular genetic markers. It became evident that species with areas in the Himalayas and southwest China and, in addition, often with disjunct areas in Siberia, actually belong to swarms of closely related, mostly allopatric species. In many cases these differ markedly in vocalizations and are deeply split according to molecular genetic markers. External morphology of the constituent taxa quite often remained surprisingly homogeneous and thus resulted in traditional subspecies status of single populations at best. Other such well-differentiated taxa were often overlooked and only discovered by molecular genetic techniques. Within the Himalayas, contrary to current thinking, intra-range differentiation is well developed in some taxa but still largely unresolved because of deficient sampling along the Himalayan chain. Both subspecies and allopatric species are also concerned here. Apparently, the Himalayas were mostly settled from the east following intra-range diversification. Immigration from the west into the Himalayas was a much rarer event and, impeded by the monsoons, immigrants reached just west Nepal and, with respect to evolutionary history, did not diverge further. Himalayan endemic passerines are few and mainly confined to the western part.
10.2307/40157532|Audio recordings of tropical birds are important tools for biologists involved in the study, management, and conservation of birdlife; the ability to acoustically identify a species in a number of tropical habitats is essential. Recording method, equipment, and the condition of equipment can affect the accuracy and quantity of audio recordings collected. Suitability of currently available analog recording systems, emerging digital recording formats, and differing microphone designs for field work varies. This paper discusses essential and effective criteria that can be used to select a recording system based upon research goals and financial resources. To survey and study tropical birds, biologists increasingly recognize that it is essential to be able to identify the birds by their sounds and to have the skill to make audio recordings of their voices (Parker 1991). Although several papers have been written on making audio recordings of bird sounds for research (Gulledge 1976; Wickstrom 1982; Ranft 1991; Vielliard 1993), recent advances in recording technology, together with the specific requirements of the tropical researcher, warrant revisiting and updating the information presented in these publications. This paper presents the fundamental technical information required to master the operation of a field recording system and prepares the recordist for situations that may be encountered in the tropics. /// Las grabaciones del sonido de aves tropicales son herramientas importantes para los bilogos envueltos en el estudio, manejo y conservacin de las aves. La habilidad para identificar acsticamente a una especie en varios tipos de hbitats tropicales es esencial. El mtodo de grabacin, equipo y la condicin del equipo, pueden afectar la exactitud y cantidad de grabaciones coleccionadas. La conveniencia de los sistemas de grabacin anlogos disponibles al presente, los formatos de grabaciones digitales actuales y los diferentes diseos de micrfonos para trabajo de campo varan. Este artculo discute los criterios esenciales y efectivos que pueden ser utilizados para seleccionar un sistema de grabacin basado en las metas de investigacin y los recursos financieros disponibles. Para estudiar y hacer censos de aves tropicales, los bilogos reconocen que es esencial poder identificar los pjaros por sus sonidos y tener las destrezas para hacer grabaciones de sus voces (Parker 1991). Aunque varias publicaciones sobre la preparacin de grabaciones de sonidos de aves han sido escritas para la investigacin (Gulledge 1976, Wickstrom 1982, Ranft 1991, Vielliard 1993), avances recientes en la tecnologa de grabacin, junto con los requerimientos especficos del investigador del trpico, ameritan revisar y poner al da la informacin presentada en estas publicaciones. Este artculo presenta la informacin tcnica fundamental requerida para dominar la operacin de un sistema de grabaciones en el campo y prepara al grabador de sonidos de aves para situaciones que se pueden encontrar en los trpicos.
10.2307/40168311|The foraging niche relations of ciconiiform wading birds in hyperseasonal wet savannas are influenced by seasonal fluctuations in rainfall, water depth, and food abundance and availability. The ciconiiform wading bird community of the Venezuelan Llanos includes 22 species, that of the Florida Everglades includes 15. Both faunas contain more species of herons than ibises, spoonbills, or storks. The Llanos supports terrestrial ibises, very large storks, and species that live in mated pairs year-round, types of wading birds not found in the Everglades. The wading bird community of the Everglades is numerically dominated by a single species, whereas abundances are more equitably distributed among species in the Llanos. Seasonal cycles of prey availability, bird migration, and fluctuating water depth influence packing of species in the wading bird community of both savannas. The Llanos includes relatively more terrestrial habitat than does the Everglades and supports a greater variety and amount of potential prey. Thus the Llanos provides more diverse foraging opportunities. Wading bird species found in both areas feed on analogous types of prey, although the diets of some species in the Llanos include types of prey with no analogue in the Everglades, the fish fauna of which is derived from temperate North America. /// Las relaciones de los nichos de forraje de la comunidad de aves zancudas ciconiformes en savanas excesivamente hmedas estn influenciendas por las fluctuaciones estacionales de lluvias, profundidad del agua y abundancia y disponibilidad de comida. La comunidad de aves zancudas ciconiformes de los llanos venezolanos incluye 22 especies, mientras que la de los Everglades en Florida, E.E.U.U. incluye 15. Ambas avifaunas contienen mayor cantidad de especies de garzas que de ibis, picos de esptula o cuchara y cigueas. En los llanos se encuentran ibis terrestres, ciguenas muy grandes y especies que viven en pareja duranta todo el ano, tipos de aves zancudas que no se encuentran en los Everglades. La comunidad de aves zancudas de los Everglades est dominada en el aspecto numrico por una sola especie, mientras que la abundancia de especies de los llanos est distribuda de manera ms equitativa. Ciclos estacionales de disponibilidad de presas, migracin de aves y fluctuacin de la profundidad de las aguas son quienes influyen en el compactamiento de las especies de la comunidad de aves zancudas de ambas savanas. Los llanos incluyen relativamente mayor cantidad de habitats terrestres que los Everglades y poseen una mayor variedad y cantidad de posibles presas. As los llanos preveen diversidad de oportunidades de forrajeo. Las aves zancudas encontradas en ambas reas se alimentan en tipos de presas anlogas, aunque las dietas de algunas especies de los llanos incluyen presas que no tienen anlogos en los Everglades, la ictiofauna que se deriva del clima templado de Amrica del Norte.
10.1525/om.2010.67.1.35|The utility of subspecies in studies of evolution and migration and in conservation planning has been debated hotly for a half-century. Inconsistent and sometimes sloppy application of the subspecies concept has led some to deem it a failure, but recent quantitative definitions of subspecies have put the concept on more rigorous footing. Nonetheless, the molecular revolution has added fuel to the fire as researchers attempt to test subspecies by genetic means. Until a sound and defensible null expectation is developed for genetic differentiation of subspecies, genetic approaches will be fraught with problems. A test for monophyly is insufficient, because parapatric subspecies interbreed by definition. Moreover, because much geographic variation may arise via natural selection, tests restricted to selectively neutral genetic data are likewise problematic. Moreover, long-standing charges of subjectivity in the naming and diagnosis of subspecies must be addressed if subspecies are to continue to be accepted as valid taxonomic entities. Statistical advances, including pairwise tests, spline regression, module identification in neural networks, Monmonier's algorithm, and unsupervised, fuzzy
10.2307/40157552|The Rufous-sided Pygmy-Tyrant (Euscarthmus rufomarginatus, Tyrannidae) was rediscovered in high-grass bushy savannas ("campo-cerrados") in western Mato Grosso and nearby Bolivia. Pairs of this species hop wrenlike low in the vegetation, at times in mixed-species flocks, eating insects and fruits; a twittery song and January fledgling were noted. Two other small grassland flycatchers, the Bearded Tachuri (Polystictus pectoralis) and Sharp-tailed Tyrant (Culicivora caudacuta), are in more open remnant grasslands ("campos") of interior South America. Single adults care for tachuri fledglings, pairs (with family groups until winter) in Sharp-tails. All three flycatcher species are now rare, owing to destruction of huge areas by agribusiness, and annual burning of many remnant savannas. Other rare savanna species needing research include Blue-eyed Ground-Dove (Columbina cyanopis), encountered only once in our studies, and Ochre-breasted Pipit (Anthus nattereri), one of several species that prefer lightly grazed or burned savanna. Birds of natural savannas shift every few years with local fires: tall-grass species move to older grassland and fire-followers to the new burns. Large or connected reserves are needed to provide both types of habitat; small reserves protected from fire turn to scrub, while annually burned ranches save few birds. /// Notas sobre trs pequenos tirandeos dos campos nativos, com comentrios sobre o desaparecimento das savanas diversificadas pelo fogo na Amrica do Sul. A maria-corrura (Euscarthmus rufimarginatus, Tyrannidae) foi redescoberta nos campos cerrados arbustivos com gramineas altas a oeste de Mato Grosso e cercanias de Bolivia. Pares desta espcie saltitam como as corruras, baixo na vegetao e por vezes juntam-se aos bandos mistos, alimentando-se de insetos e frutos; foi notado um filhote em janeiro. Dois outros tiranideos pequenos, o tricolino-canela, Polystictus pectoralis e a maria-docampo, Culicivora caudacuta, so encontrados mais comumente em remanescentes campestres mais abertos do interior da Amrica do Sul. Apenas um dos adultos cuida dos filhotes em P. pectoralis, e o casal (com grupos familiares ate o inverno) em C. caudacuta. Atualmente, todas as trs espcies so raras, devido  destruio de grandes reas para agricultura e o fogo anual em muitos dos cerrados remanescentes. Outras espcies raras de cerrado que necessitam ser pesquisados incluem a rolinha-brasileira, Columbina cyanopis, encontrada somente uma vez durante nossos estudos e, o caminheiro-grande, Anthus nattereri, uma das vrias espcies que preferem pastos levemente utilizados ou os cerrados queimados. As aves dos cerrados naturais mudam a cada poucos anos com os fogos locais: espcies de gramas altas mudam-se para os campos mais desenvolvidos e as seguidoras-de-fogo para as reas recentemente queimadas. Reservas grandes ou interligadas so necessrias para proporcionar ambos os tipos de habitat; pequenas reservas protegidas do fogo transformam-se em arbustos densos, enquanto os pastos queimados anualmente retm poucas aves.
10.1525/om.2010.67.1.79|Outdated and overly lumped alpha taxonomy among the world's island birds has serious consequences for scientific research and conservation. The underestimation of biodiversity on islands obscures their role as speciation laboratories, distorts sampling in genetic studies, biases research planning, leads to neglect of endangered island species mistakenly classified as subspecies, and reduces potentially valuable information that might be gathered by recreational birders. Suggestions such as abandoning the biological species concept and the subspecies category in favor of the phylogenetic species concept create new problems and disrupt widely understood terminology. I review avian taxonomic history in the Hawaiian Islands, speciation patterns in Pacific island pigeons and doves, and patterns of variation in the widespread Polynesian Starling (
10.2307/40157541|This study presents information on the seasonal status of a cloud-forest avifauna on Colombia's Pacific Andean slope at 950-1050 m elevation. Two hundred seventy-one species were recorded at the 70-80 ha site. About 64% of these were year-round residents. The remainder (36%) were vagrants and species showing varying degrees of seasonal movements; 22% were short-distance (elevational or local) migrants, 8% were long-distance migrants from North America. Short-distance migrants were predominantly frugivores and nectarivores; over half (58%) of all nectarivores were elevational migrants. Seasonal movements were recorded in all months, but short-distance migrants were most numerous March-June and November-January, periods when migrants from both the highlands and lowlands were present. The abundance of flowers and fruits also showed two small peaks. About twice as many short-distance migrant nectarivores came from high elevations as low elevations. A majority of short-distance migrant frugivores also were from the highlands. Eight Tangara tanagers, although resident, showed significant expansions and contractions of foraging range, diversity of fruit eaten, and amount of fruit included in their diet, an indication that these birds track resource levels, and that variation in fruit abundance affects the dynamics of frugivore populations. /// Este estudio muestra una informacin preliminar de cambios estacionales de la avifauna de un bosque nublado en la vertiente pacifica de los Andes colombianos. Se registr un total de 271 especies en un rea entre 70-80 ha. Alrededor de un 36% de las especies mostraron evidencias de movimientos estacionales; 22% presentaban movimientos altitudinales o locales y 8% eran aves migratorias de larga distancia que se reproducen en Norte Amrica. Las aves migratorias de corta distancia eran principalmente nectivoros y frugiforos; 58% de los nectivoros eran aves migratorios que se presentaban movimientos altitudinales o locales. Los movimientos estacionales fueron complejas y distribuidos a lo largo del ao, pero ms aves migratorias de corta distancia estuvieron presente durante los perodos de marzo a junio y de noviembre a enero, epocas cuando provena especias de elevacines mayores y menores. La abundancia de flores y fruitas tambien mostraron evidencias de cambios estacionales. Los nectivoros migratorios provena predominantemente de elevacines mayores; tambien la majora de frugforos estacionales provena de regiones altas. Ocho especies de Tangara no mostran evidencias de movimientos altitudinales pero mostraron aumentos y reduccines de sus rangos de alimentaciones, equalmente en la diversidad y cantidad de frutas consumidos.
10.2307/40157569|We describe the foraging behavior and vocalizations of four Myrmotherula antwrens endemic to the Atlantic Forest biome of Brazil: minor (Salvadori's Antwren), unicolor (Unicolored Antwren), snowi (Alagoas Antwren), and urosticta (Band-tailed Antwren). Application of these data in intrageneric comparisons suggests that minor is most closely related to M. schisticolor (Slaty Antwren) and M. sunensis (Rio Suno Antwren) and that unicolor is a member of the "plain-winged" group, which we suggest is monophyletic, including M. behni (Plain-winged Antwren), M. grisea (Ashy Antwren), and M. snowi. Based on significant heterogynism and external morphological distinctions and, to a lesser extent (owing to inadequate and ambiguous samples of songs), vocal differences, we recommend that snowi, originally described as a subspecies of unicolor, be elevated to species rank. M . urosticta is the Atlantic Forest representative of the widespread urostictal longipennis (Long-winged Antwren) complex. We discuss the concept that foraging data sets must be quantified to be comparable or applicable in systematic revision. /// Descrevemos os hbitos de forrageamento e vocalizaes de quatro espcies do gnero Myrmotherula endmicas ao bioma brasileiro da Mata Atlntica: minor, unicolor, snowi e urosticta. A aplicao desses dados em comparaes intragenricas sugere que M. minor  mais proximamente relacionada a M. schisticolor e M. sunensis e que M. unicolor  membro do grupo de espcies de "asas-lisas" - o qual sugerimos considerar monofiltico - incluindo M. behni, M. grisea e M. snowi. Baseado na significante heteroginia e diferenas morfolgicas externas e, em menor extenso (considerando que a amostra existente  inadequada e ambgua), diferenas no repertrio vocal, recomendamos que M. snowi, originalmente descrita como subespcie de M. unicolor, seja elevada ao nvel de espcie. M. urosticta  o representante na Mata Atlntica do - bem espalhado - complexo urostictal longipennis. Discutimos o conceito que dados de forrageamento devem ser quantificados para ser comparveis ou aplicveis em revises sistemticas.
10.2307/40157555|It has been proposed that the closest relatives of the endemic Whistling Warbler (Catharopeza bishopi) are the Plumbeous (Dendroica plumbea), Arrow-headed (Dendroica pharetra), and the Elfin Woods (Dendroica angelae) warblers. We present vocal, plumage, structural, and behavioral data that indicate that Catharopeza is not closely related to Dendroica; these data suggest that the closest living relative of Catharopeza is the Phaeothlypis group of the basileuterine warblers. /// Se ha propuesto que los grupos filogenticamente ms cercanos a Catharopeza bishopi son Dendroica plumbea, D. pharetra y D. angelae. En este escrito, mostramos caracteres de vocalizacin, plumaje, estructura y comportamiento sugieren que el grupo ms cercano a Catharopeza es el grupo Phaeothlypis, que se considera parte de Basileuterus. Se presenta la sugerencia que D. plumbea no es un miembro de la misma superespecie como D. pharetra y D. angelae.
10.2307/40166815|Brown-headed cowbirds (Molothrus ater; hereafter "cowbirds") often forage with grazing ungulates. Although domestic livestock have largely replaced American bison (Bos bison) as the cowbird's foraging associate, recent restoration of bison to their former territories has increased opportunities for cowbirds to interact with this native grazer. During summer 2002, we studied the behavior of cowbirds and bison in a 27,000-ha shortgrass prairie pasture in northeastern New Mexico. We monitored afternoon distribution of bison and native ungulates within the pasture. We used radiotelemetry to monitor daily movements and behavior of female cowbirds breeding in adjacent pinyon and juniper woodlands; we located and monitored host nests to measure parasitism rates. Our objectives were to (1) measure the spatial and temporal distribution of bison, (2) examine effects of daily changes in bison distribution on breeding and foraging strategies of female cowbirds, and (3) compare the behavior of cowbirds in a bison-grazed landscape with that in a cattle-grazed one. The number of bison within 10 km of the radiotagged cowbirds' breeding grounds varied daily, ranging from 6 to 1,161 individuals. Radiotagged female cowbirds (n = 10) were typically involved in breeding activities in pinyon-juniper woodlands in the mornings and commuted an average of 7.24 km to prairie sites to feed during afternoons. Radiotagged cowbirds fed primarily with bison (77.0% of feeding relocations), but they also fed with elk (Cervus elaphus; 9.9%), without ungulates at a dry lakebed (10.6%), and in a bison-handling corral (1.9%). When few bison were within 10 km of the cowbird breeding ranges, cowbirds foraged with elk or without ungulates. Mean commuting distance was related to distance of the nearest bison from the breeding grounds. Females in the bison-grazed landscape commuted farther and had larger feeding areas and overall home ranges than those in the cattle-grazed landscape. Differences in commuting behavior resulted from bison mobility and differences in management strategies. Increased commuting distances caused by bison mobility may result in reduced egg-laying rates for cowbirds, potentially benefiting breeding songbirds. /// Molothrus ater suele alimentarse junto a ungulados herbvoros. Aunque el ganado domstico ha reemplazado al bisonte americano (Bos bison) como especie asociada durante la alimentacin de M. ater, la restauracin reciente de los bisontes a sus territorios habituales ha incrementado las oportunidades que tiene M. ater de interactuar con este herbvoro nativo. Durante el verano de 2002 estudiamos el comportamiento de los M. ater y bisontes en una pradera de pastos cortos de 27,000 ha en el nordeste de Nuevo Mxico. Monitoreamos la distribucin de bisontes y ungulados nativos durante la tarde dentro de la pastura. Utilizamos radiotelemetra para monitorear los movimientos y el comportamiento diario de las hembras de M. ater reproducindose en zonas adyacentes a bosques de piones y enebros, y localizamos y monitoreamos nidos de los hospederos para medir las tasas de parasitismo. Nuestros objetivos fueron: (1) medir la distribucin espacial y temporal de los bisontes, (2) examinar el efecto del cambio diario en la distribucin del bisonte en la reproduccin y estrategias de alimentacin de las hembras de M. ater, y (3) comparar el comportamiento de los M. ater en un ambiente que es mantenido por el pastoreo de bisontes contra otro mantenido por el pastoreo de ganado domstico. El nmero de bisontes dentro de los 10 km de las reas reproductivas de M. ater con radiotransmisores variaron diariamente, en un rango de 6 hasta 6,161 individuos. Las hembras de M. ater con radiotransmisores (n = 10) tpicamente se involucraron en actividades reproductivas en los bosques de pin-enebro durante la maana, mudndose en promedio a 7.24 km de distancia a alimentarse a zonas de praderas durante la tarde. Los M. ater con radiotransmisores se alimentaron principalmente con los bisontes (77% de las relocalizaciones de alimentacin), pero se alimentaron tambin con alces (Cervus elaphus; 9.9%), sin ungulados en un fondo seco de lago (10.6%), y en un corral para la manipulacin de bisontes (1.9%). Cuando haba pocos bisontes dentro de los 10 km de las reas reproductivas de los M. ater, stos se alimentaron con alces o sin ungulados. La distancia media de movimiento de los M. ater estuvo relacionada con la distancia al bisonte ms cercano de su rea de reproduccin. Las hembras de M. ater de ambientes mantenidos por el pastoreo de bisontes se mudaron ms lejos y posean reas de alimentacin y reas de accin totales mayores que aquellas pertenecientes a ambientes mantenidos por el pastoreo de ganado. Las diferencias en los movimientos fueron causadas por la movilidad de los bisontes y diferencias en estrategias de manejo. El aumento en la movilidad de las hembras de M. ater causado por la movilidad de los bisontes podran implicar una disminucin en su tasa de puesta de huevos, potencialmente beneficiando a las aves canoras.
10.2307/40157571|New information on the vocalizations, behavior, and habitat of populations of the Rusty-backed Spinetail (Cranioleuca vulpina) reveal that it actually consists of two species-level taxa: a wide-ranging, polytypic species (C. vulpina) that occupies vrzea and riverine forests and flooded savanna woodlands north and south of the Amazon, and a more specialized form (C vulpecula) restricted to successional habitats on islands in the Amazon and its major white-water tributaries. Long considered a subspecies of C. vulpina, C. vulpecula is shown to be morphologically, vocally, and ecologically distinct from sympatrically distributed populations, with no evidence of intergradation. I found C. vulpecula to be common on Ilha Marchantaria in the Rio Solimes near Manaus, Brazil, a major eastward extension of its known range. One form or another of C. vulpina occupies the adjacent "mainland" banks of the river north and south of Marchantaria, as well as black-water islands in the nearby Rio Negro. /// Novas informaes sobre vocalizaes, comportamento, e habitat de populaes do joo-do-rio (Cranioleuca vulpina) revelam que este taxon contm duas espcies: uma (C vulpina) politpica, de ampla distribuio, habitando vrzea, mata de galeria, e savanas inundveis ao norte e sul do Rio Solimes-Amazonas, e a outra (C. vulpecula) especializada em ambientes sucessionais de ilhas no Rio Solimes e seus principais afluentes de gua branca. Cranioleuca vulpecula, por muito tempo tratada como subespcie de C. vulpina,  morfologicamente, vocalmente, e ecologicamente distinta de populaes simptricas de C. vulpina, sem evidncia de intergradao. Cranioleuca vulpecula  comm na Ilha Marchantaria no Rio Solimes em frente a Manaus, Amazonas, Brasil, ou outra de C. vulpina ocorre em reas adjacentes, nas margens do rio e nas ilhas de gua preta do Rio Negro.
10.2307/40168299|The purpose of this article is to explore the connection between past and present environments and evolutionary forces operating on Darwin's finches. The finches diversified from a single ancestral stock on the modern Galpagos Islands probably between 0.5 and 1.5 million years before present. During this time, they were probably exposed to fluctuating climates, and some species are likely to have gone extinct. Climatic conditions have varied from present conditions to much drier ones in the last 50,000 years, during which time all modern species of finches were present. Currently, some finch populations are subjected to intense directional selection on morphological variation in times of drought when food supply is low; possibly selection operates also under extreme wet conditions, but in an opposite direction. Unusually dry conditions and unusually wet conditions each occur once every decade, on average. Given a potential life span of 15 to 20 years, an individual finch may experience at least one drought and one wet year in its life-time. The main implication of these results and suggestions is that natural selection, both in the past and currently, is responsible for at least some and perhaps most of the differences between species. Modern analyses of selection can be extrapolated to yield estimates of the forces and conditions necessary to transform one species into another in the past, which is the key evolutionary process in the adaptive radiation. /// La finalidad de este artculo es explorar la coneccin entre el ambiente actual y pasado y las fuerzas evolucionarias operante en los pinzones de Darwin. Los pinzones se han diversificado a partir de un nico grupo ancestral en las modernas islas Galpagos probablemente entre los ltimos 0,5 y 1,5 millones de aos. Es muy probable que durante ese tiempo los pinzones se vieran expuestos a climas fluctuantes y quizas algunas especies se extinguieran. Las condiciones climticas han variado desde las condiciones actuales a otras mucho ms secas en los ltimos 50.000 aos, tiempo en el cual todas las especies modernas de pinzones, ya existan. Actualmente, algunas poblaciones de pinzones estn sujetas a una intensa seleccin direccional en variaciones morfolgicas en tiempos de sequa cuando hay poca disponibilidad de comida; posiblemente la seleccin tambin se produce en condiciones de extrema humedad, pero en direccin contraria. Como promedio, una vez en cada dcada se dan condiciones de inusual sequa y as como tambin de humedad extraordinaria. Si consideramos que los pinzones tienen un lapso potencial de vida de entre 15 y 20 aos, un individuo puede experimentar al menos una vez en su vida un ao de inusual sequa y otro de inusual humedad. La principal implicatin de estos resultados y sugerencias es que la seleccin natural, tanto en el pasado como actualmente, es responsable de al menos algunas y quizs la mayora, de las diferencias entre especies. Se pueden extrapolar modernos analisis de seleccin para producir estimaciones de las fuerzas y condiciones necesarias en el pasado, para transformar una especie en otra, lo cual es la llave de los procesos evolucionarios en radiacin adaptativa.
10.2307/40166898|Understanding how hybridization may affect extant and emerging taxa requires knowledge of the origins, viability, and breeding tendencies of hybrid individuals. We examined the geographic and environmental underpinnings of invasion and hybridization among native North American members of the genus Strix. In the early 20th century, the Barred Owl (S.varia) started expanding westward through southern Canada. Since 1973, the species has been invading habitats of the Spotted Owl (S. occidentalis), usually displacing but occasionally hybridizing with two Spotted Owl subspecies (S. o. occidentalis and S. o. caurina) to yield viable offspring that often disperse long distances before breeding. Given the high dispersal capabilities of the hybrids, questions remain as to whether hybrid offspring are preferentially colonizing environments that are characteristically different from their natal territories. Further questions surround the proximate origins of the Barred Owl range expansion. We show that the westward range expansion of the Barred Owl was spatiotemporally concomitant with historical increases in summer temperature and that the expansion corridor was positioned at relatively high latitudes because of habitat restrictions. These results provide quantitative support to previous claims that that the Barred Owl range expansion was largely shaped by natural processes. We also show that first filial Barred x Spotted hybrid owls occupy similar environments before and after postnatal dispersal and are randomly distributed both geographically and climatically with respect to parentals. We discuss the climatic mechanisms that may be influencing these dynamics, and conclude with implications for conservation of Strix spp. Received 5 July 2006, accepted 5 February 2007. /// Para entender cmo la hibridacin puede afectar a taxones existentes y emergentes, se necesita conocer los orgenes, la viabilidad y las tendencias de apareamiento de los individuos hbridos. En este trabajo, examinamos las bases geogrficas y ambientales de la invasin e hibridacin entre miembros del genero Strix, nativos de Norte Amrica. A principios del siglo 20, S. varia comenz a expandirse desde el oeste hacia el sur de Canad. Desde 1973, la especie ha invadido habitats de S. occidentalis, generalmente desplazndolo, aunque ocasionalmente hibridando con dos de sus subespecies (S. o. occidentalis y S. o. caurina) y produciendo una progenie viable que normalmente se dispersa a grandes distancias antes de reproducirse. Dada la gran capacidad de dispersin de los hbridos, nos preguntamos si su descendencia coloniza preferentemente ambientes distintos de sus territorios de origen. Cabe tambin preguntarse por el origen de la expansin del rango de S. varia. Nuestros resultados muestran que la expansin de su rango hacia el oeste est relacionada histricamente con un aumento de las temperaturas estivales; adems, el corredor de la expansin se localiz a latitudes altas, sto debido a restricciones en el hbitat. Estos resultados apoyan cuantitativamente las hiptesis de que la expansin del rango de distribucin de S. varia estuvo determinada por procesos naturales. Adems, mostramos que los hbridos descendientes del cruce S. varia x S. occidentalis ocupan ambientes similares, tanto climtica como geogrficamente, al de los parentales, presentando, adems, una distribucin aleatoria. Discutimos los mecanismos climticos que podran estar influenciando estas dinmicas y concluimos con implicaciones para la conservacin de Strix.
10.1525/om.2009.66.1.1|The hypothesis that birds are maniraptoran theropod dinosaurs (the "BMT hypothesis") has become widely accepted by both scientists and the general public. Criticism has usually been dismissed, often with the comment that no more parsimonious alternative has been presented with cladistic methodology. Rather than taking that position, we ask here whether the hypothesis is as overwhelmingly supported as some claim. We reanalyzed a standard matrix of 46 taxa and 208 characters from a recent paper by Clark, Norell, and Makovicky, and we found statistical support for the clades Coelurosauria and Maniraptoriformes and for a clade of birds and maniraptorans. Note, however, that because the matrix contains only birds and theropods, it assumes that the origin of birds lies within the Theropoda. In addition to this problem,
10.2307/40157526|We describe a new species of tyrant flycatcher (Tyrannidae) based on nine specimens from the forested Andean foothills of southeastern Peru and one specimen from adjacent northern Bolivia. The new form appears most closely related to Phylloscartes flaviventris. We cite evidence that the latter species is endemic to the coast range of northern Venezuela. We hypothesize that these two sister-species are more distantly related to a third, P. superciliaris, which has a relictual distribution in midmontane forests of Middle America and the northern Andes. The new species is an obligate member of mixed-species flocks and forages high in the canopy of intact primary forest. In Peru it inhabits moist forest between 650 and 1,200 m elevation; elevational range may be somewhat lower in Bolivia, but even there the species is confined to the foothills. Conservation of large tracts of these vanishing forests is essential for the persistence of this and many other species narrowly restricted to the Andean foothills. /// Decribimos una especie nueva de atrapamoscas (Tyrannidae), conocida de nueve ejemplares de los bosques hmedos premontanos del sudeste de Per, y un ejemplar del norte de Bolivia. El pariente mas cercano de la nueva especie es Phylloscartes flaviventris, que es endmico a las montaas de la costa venezolano. Nuestra hiptesis es que Phylloscartes superciliaris es el pariente ms cercano a esta par de especies. Phylloscartes superciliaris, tambin, tiene una patrn de distribucin de tipo-reliquia en los bosques de elevaciones medias en Amrica Central y los Andes al norte. La nueva especie es un miembro obligado de bandadas mixtas, y forrajea en las copas de bosque primario. En Per, la distribucin elevacional est limitada entre 650 y 1,200 m. La distribucin elevacional en Bolivia puede ser un poco ms baja, pero todava la especie est limitada a los bosques premontanos. Es esencial la conservacin de reas grandes de estos bosques, que son desapareciendo, para la persistencia de esta especie y muchas otras, que son especialistas dependientes de los bosques premontanos en los Andes.
10.2307/40168329|Excessive trapping for the cagebird trade during the early 20th century placed the Red Siskin, Carduelis cucullata, a Neotropical cardueline finch, in grave danger of extinction. 1981 estimates indicated only 600 to 800 individuals in scattered small populations in the western and central regions of the northern cordilleras of Venezuela, and trapping of these populations still continues. Capture, sale, and export of Red Siskins has been illegal in Venezuela since the 1940's, but protection has not succeeded because trapping occurs in remote regions difficult to police, and the birds are smuggled out of Venezuela to nearby Curaao. Red Siskins are protected under CITES, but the Netherlands is not a signatory party, hence CITES regulations do not apply in Curaao or Holland. Red Siskins are semi-nomadic, use many types of habitat including scrub woodland and evergreen forest, and feed on a variety of seeds and fruits. The main breeding season is May-July, with a secondary peak in November-December. Management recommendations include further field studies, establishment of national parks or reserves where Red Siskin populations are numerically strongest, and cooperation by the Netherlands and Curaao governments in stopping the smuggling of endangered animals into Curaao. /// La excesiva captura para el comercio de aves de jaula a comienzos del siglo XX puso al cardenalito, Carduelis cucullata, un pinzn neotropical, en grave peligro de extincin. Las estimaciones de 1981 indican que hay slo entre 600 y 800 individuos dispersos en pequeas poblaciones en las regiones del oeste y central de las cordilleras del norte de Venezuela y las capturas an continuan en esas poblaciones. La captura, venta y exportacin de C. cucullata en Venezuela es ilegal desde la dcada de 1940, pero la proteccin no ha tenido xito debido a que las capturas continan en regiones remotas dificiles de controlar para la polica y las aves son sacadas de contrabando de Venezuela hacia la cercana isla de Curaao. C. cucullata est protegida por CITES (Convencin para el Trfico Internacional de Especies de Flora y Fauna en Peligro de Extincin) pero Holanda no es signataria de la convencin, por lo que las regulaciones de CITES no se aplican a Curaao u Holanda. C. cucullata es seminmade, usa muchos tipos de habitats incluyendo bosques arbustivos y perennes y se alimenta de una variedad de semillas y frutas. La principal temporada de reproduccin es mayo-julio, con un pico secundario en noviembre-diciembre. Las recomendaciones de manejo incluyen ms estudios de campo, establecimiento de parques nacionals y reservas donde las poblaciones de C. cucullata son numricamente ms grandes, y cooperacin de los gobiernos de Curaao y Holanda, para detener el contrabando hacia Curaao, de esta ave en peligro de extincin.
10.2307/40166902|The so-called "walking eagle," currently known as Wetmoregyps daggetti from the Pleistocene of southern California and northern Mexico, is practically identical in morphology and proportion to the living Savanna Hawk (Buteogallus meridionalis) but ~40% larger. It should therefore be known as Buteogallus daggetti, new combination. Its habits were perhaps like those of a Savanna Hawk in that it was capable of taking much larger prey, given that the weight of B. daggetti may have exceeded that of the modern Secretarybird (Sagittarius serpentarius), and it may have occupied a similar niche. Any connection between its extinction and the disappearance of the North American mammalian megafauna is dubious at best. Received 27 November 2006, accepted 5 February 2007. /// Wetmoregyps daggetti, encontrado en el Pleistoceno en el sur de California y norte de Mxico, es prcticamente idntico en morfologa y en proporciones al gaviln pita venado Buteogallus meridionalis, aunque un 40% ms grande. Por lo tanto, debe considerarse como Buteogallus daggetti. Probablemente, sus hbitos eran muy similares a los del gaviln pita venado, siendo capaz de capturar grandes presas. Su tamao excede al del secretario (Sagittarius serpentarius), pudiendo ocupar un nicho similar. Cualquier conexin entre la extincin de Wetmoregyps daggetti y la desaparicin de la megafauna de mamferos en Norte America es, cuando menos, dudosa
10.2307/40168337|More than 50 species of flightless rails (Gruiformes: Rallidae) have been discovered on islands throughout the world, including members from most of the tribes and genera of the family. In the present study, qualitative and morphometric analysis of 3,220 study skins, more than 1,200 associated (complete and partial) skeletons, approximately 4,000 disassociated subfossil elements, and pectoral dissections of 41 fluid-preserved specimens formed the primary basis for investigation. Analyses emphasized statistical comparisons of flightless species with closest flighted relatives, augmented by analyses of data on body mass, wing areas, wing lengths, clutch sizes, egg dimensions, and ecophysiological parameters. These were integrated with a companion cladistic analysis and current evolutionary theory. Flightless members of the Rallidae span more than two orders of magnitude in body mass. Univariate comparisons of skin specimens confirmed a repeated pattern of relatively or absolutely shortened wings and (with a few exceptions) tails in flightless taxa. Greatest reductions in relative wing size were evident in Habroptila wallacii, Gallirallus australis-group, Tricholimnas spp., Habropteryx insignis, Amaurornis ineptus, and Tribonyx mortierii. These shifts were confounded by diverse changes in body size; most flightless species were characterized by increases in body size of various magnitudes (greatest in Porphyrio mantelligroup, Nesotrochis debooyi, Gallirallus australis-group, Tricholimnas lafresnayanus, Aphanapteryx bonasia, Erythromachus leguati, Diaphorapteryx hawkinsi, and Amaurornis ineptus), whereas a minority showed substantial decreases (Cabalus modestus), modest decreases (Dryolimnas aldabranus, Rallus recessus, Gallirallus wakensis, Atlantisia rogersi, most flightless Porzana, and Tribonyx hodgenorum), or virtual stasis (Porzana palmeri) in directly measured or estimated body masses. Sexual dimorphism was significant in virtually all external dimensions, although magnitudes of these differences were substantially less than within-sex differences between congeners. Although confounded by subspecific variation in some taxa, indications were found of inflated variance in some external dimensions (e.g., tail length) of flightless species relative to flighted relatives (e.g., Amaurornis ineptus). Limited data on wing loadings--ratios of body mass divided by area of wings--confirmed that two flightless species had significantly higher values than flighted relatives of similar size. Only the estimate for bulky Porphyrio hochstetteri exceeded the "threshold of flightlessness" of Meunier, whereas the value for tiny, flightless Porzana atra was roughly one fourth of the threshold value. The latter indicates the inapplicability of this criterion in taxonomic groups (e.g., Rallidae) in which reductions of the pectoral musculature are critical to flightlessness. Principal component analyses (PCAs) and canonical analyses (CAs) of studyskins provided multidimensional discrimination of species and sexes within key clades with respect to both size and shape. These not only confirmed the variably pronounced reductions in relative wing length and overall size in flightless species indicated by univariate analyses, but revealed that corresponding multivariate shifts were exceptionally great in Porphyrio hochstetteri, Porzana sandwichensis, and Amaurornis ineptus, and that sexual dimorphism was exaggerated in P. hochstetteri, Habroptila wallacii, Gallirallus owstoni, and Cabalus modestus. PCAs of lengths of extracted remiges revealed that flightless species, in addition to differences in overall size, were characterized by disproportionately short (in extreme cases, absent) distal primary remiges (i.e., had more rounded wings). Remiges displayed several important trends associated with flightlessness: reductions in length relative to body size; variably pronounced changes in shape; disproportionate shortening of the distalmost remiges, resulting in comparatively rounded wings; losses of the distalmost one or two remiges primarii and several remiges secundarii (a minority of taxa); and microanatomical reductions in the integrity of margins of vanes ("fringing"). Univariate comparisons confirmed the relative and (in some cases) absolute reductions in lengths of wing elements, and also quantified the reductions in dimensions of elements of the pectoral girdle and widths of appendicular elements. These shifts were accompanied by increased size of the cranium and pelvic apparatus in a number of flightless taxa (e.g., Porphyrio hochstetteri, Gallirallus australis-group, Amaurornis ineptus, and Tribonyx mortierii). Subfossil coots (Fulica chathamensis-group and F. newtoni) largely qualify as allometrically enlarged versions of typical congeners, comparable to two large Andean coots (Fulica cornuta and F. gigantea). Univariate sexual dimorphism was significant in most rallids. However, intersexual differences in bill lengths of several subfossil rails (Diaphorapteryx hawkinsi, Aphanapteryx bonasia, and possibly Cabalus modestus) were exceptionally great and suggestive of intersexual differences in feeding niche. Bivariate correlations within flightless species differed from those for flighted species, notably in the low correlations between most sternal measurements and other osteological variables, a pattern indicative of the virtual disjunction between sternum and other skeletal elements in flightless species. Comparisons of proportions within the pectoral limb revealed that the antebrachium, carpometacarpus, and (to a generally lesser degree) the phalanges were disproportionately short and the brachium was disproportionately long in flightless species. These patterns and the disproportionately robust alulae in flightless rails are consistent with the effects of two largely perpendicular developmental axes acting on both the skeletal and muscular derivatives of the mesoderm in the avian pectoral limb: a primary, proximal-distal growth axis; and a secondary, cranial-caudal growth axis that principally affects the manus. Proportions within the pelvic limb showed a diversity of shifts associated with the loss of flight, one of the most marked being a disproportionate elongation of the pedal digits in highly aquatic Fulica. Ratios of humerus length divided by femur length provided a remarkably robust indicator of flight capacity of rallids (with the exception of natatorial Fulica), with ratios for flighted taxa averaging above 0.90, whereas those for flightless taxa averaged below 0.90. A PCA of detailed matrices of skulls displayed the diversity of size and bill manifested by species of the Rallidae, among which the most extreme bill shapes (and probably foraging modes) were those of several flightless species (e.g., Capellirallus karamu, Diaphorapteryx hawkinsi, Aphanapteryx bonasia, and Erythromachus leguati). Pectoral allomorphosis (intraspecific allometry) displayed higher slopes in many flightless species, consistent with termination of pectoral growth at an earlier stage of skeletal development through heterochrony. CAs of skeletal measurements within clades confirmed relative magnitudes of shifts related to loss of flight that were broadly consistent with those apparent in PCAs, and confirmed significant increases in sexual dimorphism in most flightless lineages. Qualitative changes associated with flightlessness were found in most pectoral elements (especially the humerus and sternum), with many extending to the extinct adzebills (Gruiformes: Aptornithidae), and corroborated homoplasy among flightless species. Tallies of these apomorphies indicated that the most-derived flightless lineages were Porphyrio hochstetteri, Habroptila wallacii, Gallirallus australis-group, Cabalus modestus, Capellirallus karamu, and Diaphorapteryx hawkinsi. Comparisons of the pectoral musculature of rails revealed that reductions in bulk and cranial extents of mm. pectoralis et supracoracoideus were the most conspicuous myological changes. As a percentage of mean body mass, these underwent reductions among flightless taxa as high as 15% (Gallirallus australis and Tribonyx mortierii) and as low as 5-6% (Dryolimnas aldabranus and Gallinula comeri). Also typical of most flightless rails was an increase in the prominence of m. cucullaris capitis pars clavicularis (associated with the caudal regression of the apex carina sterni), attenuation of mm. biceps brachii et humerotriceps, greater distal extent of m. pronator superficialis relative to the underlying (foreshortened) radius, and a corresponding increase in the impressio m. brachialis relative to the ulna. A minority of flightless rails also showed variably pronounced weakening of fibrous portions of m. rhomboideus profundus, m. flexor digitorum superficialis, and m. ulnometacarpalis ventralis, and increased conformational variation in several muscles of the manus (mm. abductor alulae capita dorsale et ventrale, and m. extensor brevis alulae). PCAs of mean muscle measurements indicated greatest morphometric shifts in Gallirallus australis, G. wakensis, Atlantisia rogersi, Porzana palmeri, and Gallinula comeri, patterns not entirely congruent with reductions in breast muscles. A correspondence analysis of ecomorphological variables principally discriminated three groups: small crakes on small, extremely isolated islands (Porzana palmeri and P. atra), large terrestrial species from New Zealand (Porphyrio hochstetteri and Gallirallus australis), and robust, aquatic species from moderately large islands (Habroptila wallacii, Amaurornis ineptus, and Tribonyx mortierii). Most flightless rails manifest variably pronounced increases in size, and in accordance with the substantial literature on giantism, these shifts appear to confer selective advantages related to thermodynamics, procurement of mates, territoriality, capacity for fasting, and interspecific competition. These gains were accompanied by negative implications, including greater total energetic requirements, diminished capacity for stealth, and vulnerability to selected environmental and predatory agents, with the latter contributing to the minority of flightless rails showing dwarfism. Changes in body size are accompanied by allometric changes in numerous, fundamental ecophysiological parameters, among which are several critical to flight capacity. Departures from familial isometry in relative wing size accompany flightlessness in most cases, but in rails reductions in pectoral musculature (and the associated skeleton) appear to be paramount, changes that were associated with variably pronounced changes in the integument, modifications in bill shape, increased sexual dimorphism, energetically efficient reductions in basal metabolic rates, and changes in reproductive and dietary parameters. The latter are consistent with r-K shifts in life histories, and most of the ecological changes are typical of insular birds. Heterochrony, combining pectoral paedomorphosis with (in most taxa) peramorphosis of the axial and pelvic complexes, appears to underlie most anatomical apomorphies related to flightlessness in rails. Morphological and ecological changes in flightless rails provide a strong qualitative analogy with those of vertebrate and invertebrate endemics of caves (troglomorphs). Phylogenetic reconstructions of rallids are replete with morphological homoplasy, apparent irreversibility of the apomorphy associated with flightlessness, and only a few candidates for speciation following the loss of flight. Many rails show metapopulational demographic characteristics, and a number of migratory species show high vagrancy and qualify as consummate colonists of islands. These qualities suggest that a number of flighted rails, especially a core group with high fecundities and longdistance migratory patterns, may maintain dispersal polymorphisms in which a minority of progeny are predisposed to vagrancy and colonization of insular habitats. Insular colonizations occasioned thereby essentially represent "permanent migratory stopovers" followed by evolutionary refinements for year-round residency. The highly convergent morphology of flightless rails indicates a shared, readily triggered, canalized bifurcation in ontogeny that leads to the morphological and physiological changes that result in flightlessness. Conditional advantages of resources redirected in flightless lineages (e.g., conversion of investments in musculature, pectoral skeletons, and metabolic characteristics) are substantial, as indicated by the exorbitant anatomical and physiological requirements of the primary capacity surrendered, migration. The potential for this transformation may be preserved through dispersal polymorphisms and bethedging against overdependence on ephemeral, variable, natal breeding locales. Alternative patterns of dispersal also may be accelerated in some rallids through selectively maintained, environmentally induced plasticity through threshold traits or developmental reactionnorms within small demes subject to founder effects, genetic drift, and population bottlenecks. Distributions of flightless rails are explainable by a complex history of colonizations by flighted ancestors, a scant number of colonizations or nearisland expansions by flightless lineages, and extinctions related to small demes, marginal habitats, earthquakes, volcanoes, El Nio-La Nina events, and (especially) tsunamis of islands during recent millennia. Many flightless rails encountered ecological opportunities beyond those of continental confamilials. Selective advantages under these circumstances were accrued through decreased clutch size, increased egg size, and protracted developmental periods. Flightlessness in rails represents the selectively advantageous, ontogenetically mediated conversion of anatomical and caloric assets of the pectoral apparatus and associated metabolic parameters related to flight toward multiple evolutionary alternatives of intensified selective importance in insular habitats and the adoption of a nonmigratory lifestyle. The evolutionary scenario can be summarized as follows: migration-imposed anatomical and physiological requirements for migration preconditioned key rallids for a conversion of resources; vagrancy (possibly enhanced by polymorphism of dispersal and accelerated cladogenetic capacity maintained among metapopulations) provided opportunities for insular colonization; one or a suite of similar alternative, heterochronic, developmental avenue(s) retained by key rallids (perhaps triggered and hastened as threshold traits or by developmental reaction norms) facilitated the anatomical and physiological transformation to the local optimal, flightless phenotype(s) after colonization; successful colonization may have been advanced by differences in preferred stopover habitats between sexes and ages, and the acceleration of kin-selected altruism among close relatives migrating in concert; concomitant changes in size carried multiple allometrically related changes in physiology and metabolism; and despite a resilience to natural disasters (notably tsunamis), anthropogenic agencies ultimately led to extinction for most flightless lineages effectively by breaching key aspects of insularity essential to their provision of refuge. Accordingly, the "ideal avian colonist" would possess a combination of a capacity to modulate metabolic and physiological parameters; manifest dispersal polymorphism that includes long-distance, gregarious vagrancy as one component tactic; comparatively high sexual dimorphism or a potential for such; and expanded ontogenetic variance and cladogenesis that facilitates evolutionary changes in size and pectoral paedomorphosis.
10.2307/40168307|Bananaquits nesting in association (<1 m) with wasp (Polybia) nests had significantly lower nest predation rates than neighbors with nests not associated with wasp nests. Males mated to females nesting near wasp nests were more likely to retain their mates through the breeding season than males mated to females having nests unassociated with wasp nests. A survey of Bananaquit and Polybia nests indicated that trees containing nests of both were more frequent than expected by chance. Within the same tree, the distance between Bananaquit nests and the nearest wasp nest averaged 82.3 cm  10.3 (s.e.). Females nesting close to wasp nests one year did not usually nest with wasps in the following year. Also, removal of Bananaquit nests near wasp nests did not cause the females to re-nest with wasps. A probability model is presented as a null hypothesis to explain how spatial association between bird and wasp nests may arise. It is shown that a bird's random choice of a nest site in conjunction with increased nest success for nests close to wasp nests can (during several breeding attempts) produce a bird-wasp nesting association. /// Los reinitas que anidaron en asociacin (=1 m) con nidos de avispas (Polybia) tenan una tasa de depredacin significativamente ms baja que sus vecinos anidando sin asociacin con nidos de avispas. Los machos que se aparearon con hembras que anidaban cerca de nidos de avispas fueron ms propensos a retener sus parejas a lo largo de la estacin reproductiva, que los machos que se aparearon con hembras que anidaron sin asociarse con nidos de avispas. Un estudio de nidos de colibr bananero y Polybia indic que fue ms frecuente encontrar rboles que contuviesen nidos de ambos que lo que se poda esperar por chance. En un mismo rbol, la distancia promdeio entre nidos de colibres y el nido de avispa ms cercano, fue de 82,3 cm 10,3 cm (DS). Las hembras que anidaron un ao cerca de un nido de avispa, no lo hicieron al ao siguiente. As mismo, el remover un nido de colibr cercano a un nido de avispa no hizo que la hembra volviese a anidar cerca del nido de avispas. Se presenta un modelo de probabilidades como hiptesis nula, que explica como puede originarse la asociacin espacial entre aves y avispas. Se muestra que la eleccin al azar de un sitio de anidacin en conjuncin con el aumento de xito de anidacin para nidos cercanos a nidos de avispas puede (durante varios intentos reproductivos) producir una asocciacin de anidacin entre aves y avispas.
10.2307/40166830|A multispecies colony of seabirds was studied on the island of Genovesa, in the northern part of the Galpagos archipelago, Ecuador, in 2003, to establish baseline health parameters and to test specifically for Chlamydophila psittaci, known to exist elsewhere in the archipelago. Twenty-three Red-footed Boobies (Sula sula), 24 Great Frigatebirds (Fregata minor), 25 Nazca Boobies (S. granti), and 19 Swallow-tailed Gulls (Creagrus furcatus) were hand-restrained for venipuncture and collection of lacrimo-choanal-cloacal combination swabs. White blood cell (WBC) counts, differentials, and packed cell volumes were obtained and plasma chemistry analyses performed on the blood samples. Presence-absence and parasitemias of circulating hemoparasites were determined by microscopic evaluation of peripheral blood smears. Haemoproteus-like hemoparasites were found in three of the seabird species sampled. Prevalences were 29.2% (7 of 24) in Great Frigatebirds, 15.8% (3 of 19) in Swallow-tailed Gulls, and 8.7% (2 of 23) in Red-footed Boobies; none of the Nazca Boobies were infected. Parasitemia levels were relatively low within each of the infected species. Individual Great Frigatebirds with Haemoproteus infections also exhibited significantly higher heterophil-to-lymphocyte concentration ratios than birds not infected with Haemoproteus, an indication that birds infected with Haemoproteus were also physiologically stressed or, alternatively, that they were actively fighting the infection. Haemoproteus prevalences within Great Frigatebirds on Genovesa were not significantly different from those previously reported from conspecific hosts in the Hawaiian Islands. To compare seabird hemoparasite data with those for a sympatric terrestrial species, Galapagos Doves (Zenaida galapagoensis) were sampled on Genovesa in 2004 and screened for Haemoproteus previously reported in Galapagos Doves on other islands. Prevalence in this terrestrial endemic was high (42.3%; 11 of 26), and several birds exhibited relatively high parasitemia levels. Chlamydophila psittaci was not found in any birds by either serology or antigen detection methods. Received 29 August 2005, accepted 8 September 2005. /// Estudiamos una colonia multiespecfica de aves marinas en la isla de Genovesa, en la zona norte del archipilago de las Galpagos en Ecuador, en el ao 2003, para determinar parmetros de salud bsicos y probar particularmente por la presencia de Chlamydophyla psittaci, de la cual se sabe su existencia en el resto del archipilago. Se tomaron muestras de sangre y de exudados combinados cloacales y lagrimo-coanales de 23 Sula sula, 24 Fregata minor, 25 Sula granti y 19 Creagrus furcatus. De las muestras de sangre, se obtuvieron conteos de glbulos blancos, diferenciales y volmenes celulares empaquetados, adems de realizar anlisis qumicos del plasma. La presencia-ausencia y parasitemias de hemoparsitos circulantes fueron determinadas por medio de evaluaciones microscpicas de frotis de sangre perifrica. Hemoparsitos parecidos a Haemoproteus fueron encontrados en tres de las especies de aves marinas muestreadas. Las frecuencias de la presencia de hemoparsitos fue de 29.2% (7 de 24) en Fregata minor, 15.8% (3 de 19) en Creagrus furcatus y 8.7% (2 de 23) en Sula sula; ningn individuo de Sula granti estuvo infectado. Los niveles de parasitemia fueron relativamente bajos en cada una de las especies infectadas. Individuos de Fregata minor infectados con Haemoproteus tambin mostraron proporciones significativamente altas en concentraciones de heterofil a linfocitos en comparacin con las aves no infectadas, lo que indica que las aves infectadas con Haemoproteus tambin estuvieron estresadas fisiolgicamente o tambin pudieron estar luchando activamente la infeccin. Las frecuencias de Haemoproteus en individuos de Fregata minor en la isla de Genovesa no fueron significativamente diferentes de las frecuencias previamente registradas en hospederos con especficos en las islas Hawaianas. Para comparar la informacin de la presencia de Hemoparsitos en aves marinas con datos de especies terrestres simpticas, se muestrearon individuos de Zenaida galapagoensis en la isla de Genovesa en el ano del 2004 y se determino la presencia de Haemoproteus, la cual haba sido reportada previamente en individuos de Zenaida galapagoensis provenientes de otras islas. La frecuencia en esta especie terrestre endmica fue alta (42.3%; 11 de 26) y algunas aves presentaron niveles de parasitemia relativamente altos. Chlamydophyla psittaci no se encontr en ninguna de las aves cuando se utilizaron mtodos de deteccin serolgicos o de antgeno.
10.2307/40168332|Some important man-caused changes in the distributions of Colombian bird populations are discussed. Examination of the changes is based on a preliminary Blue List of 135 species with declining populations. Canopy frugivores dominate the list, followed by terrestrial and aquatic species, respectively. There are proportionately more highland species on the list than lowland species. Two regions, the central Colombian highlands, and the Cauca-Magdalena lowlands contain more declining species than other avifaunal regions. Almost two-thirds of Colombia's endemic species have been placed on the list. Some species have profited from deforestation or other human activities, and these are discussed. /// Se discuten algunos cambios importantes, causados por el hombre, en las distribuciones de poblaciones de aves colombianas. El reconocimiento de los cambios est basado en la Lista Azul preliminar de 135 especies con poblaciones en disminucin. Los frugvoros del tope del bosque dominan la lista, seguidos respectivamente por especies terrestres y acuticas. Proporcionalmente en la lista hay ms especies de tierras altas que de tierras bajas. Dos regiones, las tierras altas del centro de Colombia y las tierras bajas de Cauca-Magdalena, presentan ms especies en disminucin que otras regiones de avifaunas. Casi dos tercios de las especies endmicas de Colombia estn includas en la lista. Se discute tambin la ganancia que obtuvieron otras aves por la deforestacin y otras actividades humanas.
44145285|Distribution of nonbreeding migrant birds in relation to variation in food availability has been hypothesized to result from the interaction of dominance hierarchies and variable movement responses, which together may have sex- and age-specific consequences. We predicted that site fidelity, movements, and abundance of Kirtland's Warblers (Setophaga kirtlandii) wintering on the island of Eleuthera in the Commonwealth of the Bahamas (hereafter "The Bahamas") would be correlated with food abundance but vary by sex and age. We found that the species' food resources (fruits and arthropods) typically declined during a winter but varied between winters (years) and study sites. Rainfall is a driver of variation in fruit abundance, as indicated by an information-theoretic evaluation of abiotic factors that influence fruit abundance. Despite variation in food availability, the proportions of fruits and arthropods in the diet of Kirtland's Warblers (88% of 90 fecal samples with both) varied little within or between winters or with sex or age class. Overwinter site persistence was low and variable among study sites (average = 43%, range: 11-67%); as predicted, site fidelity within and between winters differed by sex (males > females) and age class (adults > juveniles). However, knowledge of only sex and age was insufficient to predict site persistence in a model-selection framework in the absence of other contributing variables from the confidence set of models (i.e., food resources and/or habitat structure) for two model sets. These analyses further indicated that measures of food resources, either foliage arthropods or fruits, were reliable positive predictors of site fidelity, given the respective confidence set of models. Birds that shifted between study sites within a winter moved to sites with higher biomass of ripe fruit and ground arthropods, such that late-winter densities of Kirtland's Warblers were positively related to the biomass of fruits and ground arthropods. Sex and age differences in corrected body mass and fat were significant from midwinter through late winter, consistent with expected outcomes of dominance and experience. Differences in corrected body mass were evident by 16 April, when males had greater corrected mass than females, and by 26 April, when corrected mass of males was greater for adults than for juveniles. Late-winter rain had a positive effect on corrected body mass, corraborating previous Kirtland's Warbler studies that showed carryover effects on the breeding grounds and that survival in the following year was positively correlated with March rainfall in The Bahamas. Given that drought reduces the food resources and body condition of Kirtland's Warblers in The Bahamas, which negatively affects survival and breeding of Kirtland's Warblers in North America, conservation efforts in the Bahamas archipelago should focus on protecting the least-drought-prone early-successional habitats and sites with favored fruit species. La distribucin de aves migratorias no reproductivas en relacin a la variacin en la disponibilidad de alimento est siendo hipotetizada como un resultado de la interaccin de las jerarquas de dominancia y las respuestas de movimientos variables, que conjuntamente pueden tener consecuencias especificas con la edad y sexo. Predecimos que la fidelidad al sitio de invernada, los movimientos y la abundancia de las reinitas de Kirtland (Setophaga kirtlandii) invernando en la isla de Eleuthera en las Bahamas podran estar correlacionadas con la abundancia de alimento, pero varan por sexo y edad. Encontramos que la abundancia de recursos alimenticios de la especie (frutos y artrpodos) disminuy durante un invierno, pero no entre inviernos (aos) y sitios de estudio. La precipitacin es un impulsor de la variacin en la abundancia de frutos, como es indicada por la evaluacin de la informacin terica de los factores abiticos que influyen en la abundancia de alimento. A pesar de la variacin en la disponibilidad de alimento, las proporciones de frutos y artrpodos en la dieta de las reinitas de Kirtland (88% de 90 muestras fecales con ambos tipos de alimentos) variaron poco dentro y entre inviernos, o con sexos o clases de edad. La persistencia al sitio durante el invierno fue baja y variable entre sitios (promedio = 43%, rango = 11-67%); tal como fue predicho en este estudio, la fidelidad al sitio dentro y entre inviernos vario entre sexos (machos > hembras) y clases de edad (adultos > juveniles). Sin embargo, el conocimiento de solo el sexo y edad fue insuficiente para predecir la persistencia al sitio en un esquema de seleccin de modelos en ausencia de otras variables de un grupo de modelos confiables (i.e., recursos alimenticios y/o estructura del hbitat) para dos grupos de modelos. Estos anlisis adems indicaron que las mediciones de recursos alimenticios, ya sean artrpodos de follaje o frutos fueron predictores positivos confiables, dada las respectivas confiabilidades de los modelos. Las aves que cambiaron entre sitios de estudio dentro de un invierno se movieron hacia sitios con mayor biomasa de frutos maduros y artrpodos del suelo, as que las densidades al final del invierno de reinitas Kirtland fueron positivamente correlacionadas con la biomasa de frutos y artrpodos del suelo. Las diferencias de sexo y edad en masa corporal corregida y grasa fueron significativas desde mediados hasta finales de invierno, consistente con los resultados esperados de dominancia y experiencia. Diferencias en masa corporal corregida fueron evidentes hacia el 16 de abril, cuando los machos presentaron mayor masa corporal corregida que las hembras, y el 26 de abril, cuando la masa corporal corregida de adultos fue mayor que los juveniles. La precipitacin al final de invierno tuvo un efecto positivo sobre la masa corporal corregida, corroborando los estudios previos de la especie, que mostraron efectos de arrastre en los cuarteles de invierno, y que la supervivencia en el ao siguiente fue positivamente correlacionada con la precipitacin de marzo en las Bahamas. Dado que la sequa reduce los recursos alimenticios y condicin corporal de las reinitas Kirtland en las Bahamas, este factor tambin afecta negativamente la supervivencia y reproduccin de esta especie en Norteamrica. Los esfuerzos de conservacin en el archipilago de Bahamas deben enfocarse en la proteccin de los habitats de sucesin temprana menos susceptibles a las sequas y los sitios con mayor riqueza de especies de frutos.
10.2307/40157570|Melbourne Armstrong Carriker, Jr. (1879-1965) traveled and collected birds and mallophaga in Central America and South America from Colombia to Bolivia. He collected more than 53,000 bird specimens and described many new species and subspecies from his collections. From 1934-1938 he worked in Bolivia, and afterwards wrote a manuscript of his adventures and travails that was never published. I have excerpted sections of that manuscript describing travel on the rivers, and work in the Andes and Chaco. /// Melbourne Armstrong Carriker, Jr. (1879-1965) viaj y colect ejemplares de aves y de mallaphagos en Amrica Central y tambien en Amrica Sur, de Colombia a Bolivia. Obtuv mas de 53,000 muestras de aves, y de sus colecciones describi muchas especies y subespecies nuevas. Desde 1934-1938, Carriker trabaj en Bolivia y despus escribi sus aventuras, pero el manuscrito nunca fue publicado. Yo he extraido partes del manuscrito describiendo viajes por los rios bolivianos, y trabajos en los Andes y chaco boliviano.
10.2307/40168277|Coeligena torquata eisenmanni, a new race of the Collared Inca hummingbird, is described from mid-elevation cloud forest in the northern Cordillera Vilcabamba, a front-range of the Andes in south-central Peru. Its plumage pattern and its geographic range provide a link between the northern, white-banded torquata subspecies group and the southern, rufous-banded inca group, confirming the conspecificity of the two groups. Lowlands of the Ro Apurmac valley form a barrier between C. t. eisenmanni and the neighboring race to the west and northwest, C. t. insectivora. /// Se describe una nueva raza de picaflor inca de collar, Coeligena torquata eisenmanni, que ha sido encontrado en el bosque de neblinas de elevacin mediana en el norte de la cordillera de Vilcabamba, la cual forma parte de la cordillera de los Andes en el centro-sur del Per. Las caractersticas de su plumaje as como su rango de distribucin la enlazan con las subespecies del grupo torquata del norte, de banda blanca, y con el grupo austral inca, de banda rojiza, confirmando de esta manera la conespecificidad ("conspecificity") de los dos grupos. Las tierras bajas del valle del ro Apurmac forman la barrera entre C. t. eisenmanni y C. t. insectivora, la raza vecina hacia el oeste y noroeste.
10.2307/40157547|For almost three decades, structural habitat complexity has been regarded as a primary ecological factor responsible for maintaining high species diversity of tropical bird communities. However, differences in habitat complexity between temperate and tropical forests have not been documented sufficiently. Differences between temperate and tropical forests were quantified by measuring 36 variables related to understory habitat structure. Structural components of temperate and tropical habitats differed significantly in several features. However, no differences were found in overall habitat heterogeneity (i.e. complexity) between temperate and tropical forests. To search for "bird-related" factors important in maintaining high tropical species diversity, we compared habitat selection between foliage-gleaning insectivorous birds in temperate and tropical forest understories. The tropical species were more specialized in horizontal and vertical habitat selection, and had lower "niche breadths" in foraging substrate and in foraging height. Tropical species also showed less interspecific overlap in most foraging variables than did temperate species. Therefore, higher species diversity, at least within this guild of birds in tropical and temperate forest understories, can be attributed at the proximate level to greater specialization and "tighter species packing," and may be more independent of greater habitat complexity than previously thought. /// Por casi tres decadas, la complejidad estructural del habitat se ha considerado como el principal factor ecologico responsable de mantener la alta variedad de especies encontrada en comunidades de pajaros tropicales. Sin embargo, la diferencia en complejidad del habitat entre bosques templados y bosques tropicales no ha sido suficientemente quantificada. Nosotros quantificamos diferencias entre bosques templados y bosques tropicales midiendo 36 variables relacionadas a la estructura del habitat bajo el dosel y encontramos varias diferencias significativas en componentes estructurales entre habitats tropicales y templados. Sin embargo, no encontramos diferencias en la heterogeneidad del habitat (complejidad) entre bosques templados y tropicales. Buscando factores que fueran importantes en mantener la alta diversidad de las especies de pajaros tropicales, comparamos la seleccion del habitat entre pajaros insectivoros que usan el follaje bajo el dosel en bosques templados y tropicales. Las especies tropicales estaban mas especializadas en su seleccion de habitats al nivel horizontal y vertical, teniendo pequenos nichos en el substrato y altitud del area donde forrajeaban. En la mayoria de las variables relacionadas al forraje, las especies tropicales tambien demonstraron menos traslapo entre-especies que las especies templadas. Concluimos pues que la alta variedad de especies, por lo menos dentro de este grupo de pajaros que viven bajo el dosel en bosques templados y tropicales, se puede atribuir inicialmente a mayor especializacion y concentracion de especies y puede que sea mas independiente de la total complejidad del habitat de lo que actualmente se cree.
10.2307/40168295|A conebill collected in October 1980 in Dpto. Puno, Peru is considered a hybrid between Conirostrum ferrugineiventre and Oreomanes fraseri. Both genera are former members of the "Coerebidae," a family now not usually recognized, as it is thought to be polyphyletic. Conirostrum and Oreomanes are now usually regarded as belonging to different phyletic lineages. Hybridization between these genera, coupled with their basic similarities in plumage coloration and pattern and in general morphology, suggests that Conirostrum and Oreomanes are more closely related than was previously recognized, but leaves unanswered the question of their relationships to other nine-primaried oscines. /// En octubre de 1980 se coleccion un pico de cono en el Departamento de Puno, Per, el cual es considerado un hbrido entre Conirostrum ferrugineiventre y Oreomanes fraseri. Ambos gneros fueron miembros del "Coerebidae", una familia que en la actualidad no es usualmente reconocida, pues se la considera compuesta por diversos linajes ("polyphyletic"). Conirostrum y Oreomanes actualmente son considerados como pertenecientes a diferentes linajes de filos. La hibridacin entre esos dos gneros, unida a sus similaridades bsicas en coloratin y modelo de plumajes y morfologa en general, sugieren que Conirostrum y Oreomanes estn ms estrechamente relacionados que lo que se reconoca anteriormente, pero queda sin respuesta la cuestin de sus relaciones con los otros oscines de nueve primarias.
10.2307/40168284|Several birds typical of southeastern Brazil's isolated and cold mountains have most probably been derived from Andean/Patagonian ancestors following Pleistocene glaciation. Typical species endemic to that area include Itatiaia Spinetail (Schizoeaca moreirae), Long-tailed Cinclodes (Cinclodes pabsti), and Mouse-colored Tapaculo (Scytalopus Speluncae). Uniquely among Andean-Patagonian derivatives, Band-winged Nightjar (Caprimulgus longirostris) has also colonized low-lands, even reaching tropical, urban Rio de Janeiro. Secondary radiation has led to at least one species of Andean origin (Brasilia Tapaculo, Scytalopus novacapitalis) colonizing the central Brazil Plateau, apparently having followed the inland movement of coastal forests. Extension southward of Amazonian heat and northward of patagonian aridity are advanced in explanation for the rupture of a formerly continuous band of vegetation linking the Andes and southeastern Brazil, with resulting isolation and speciation of landbirds. /// varias aves tpicas de las montaas aisladas y fras del sureste de Brasil han derivado muy probablemente de ancestros andino-patagnicos luego de las glaciaciones del pleistoceno. Especies endmicas tpicas de esa rea incluyen Schizoeaca moreirae, Cinclodes pabsti, y scytalopus speluncae. La chotacabra serrana (Caprimulgus longirostris) es nica entre los descendientes andinopatagnicos, ya que tambin ha colonizado las tierras bajas e incluso ha llegado a las reas urbanas y tropicales en Ro de Janeiro. La Radiacin Secundaria Ha hecho que al menos una especie de origen andino (Scytalopus novacapitalis) colonice la meseta central de Brasil, aparentemente habiendo seguido las extensiones tierra adentro del bosque atlntico. La extensin del calor amaznico hacia el sur Y de la aridez patagnica hacia el norte brindan una hiptesis para explicar la ruptura de una banda de vegetacin que en el pasado era continua y enlazaba los Andes con el sur de Brasil, dando como resultado la aislacin y especiacin de aves terrestres.
10.2307/40166816|Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater; hereafter "cowbird") parasitism is costly to host fitness, especially for smaller hosts whose nestlings have to compete with larger cowbird nestlings that often hatch earlier. Those fitness costs select for a variety of host defenses, including inconspicuous nests, aggression toward cowbirds, deserting parasitized nests, burying cowbird eggs, and ejecting cowbird eggs from nests. Egg ejection is the most effective defense against parasitism, but there are only 30 hosts known to regularly eject cowbird eggs. Evolutionary lag is the most likely reason that relatively few hosts demonstrate ejection. However, once ejection evolves in a host, some evidence indicates that it is maintained for long periods of time, even in the absence of brood parasitism-which suggests that host communities are becoming increasingly resistant to parasitism over time. With progressively fewer naive hosts to exploit, cowbirds may specialize on just a few host species. Retention of host defenses is also important because cowbirds were probably more common in the past, when mammalian megafauna were present. As a result, not every newly exposed host population requires cowbird control programs, because many have maintained defenses after inheriting them from ancestors that were exposed to parasitism, making them well defended against new bouts of parasitism. Several hosts that are currently the focus of control programs demonstrate defenses against parasitism, and their populations have increased. We suggest that the time has come to relax control of some of those species, to determine whether they can sustain their populations in the presence of parasitism and to allow their natural defenses to increase, so that they will not be perpetually dependent on human intervention. /// El parasitismo de Molothrus ater es costoso en trminos de la adecuacin de sus hospederos, en especial de aquellos de pequeo tamao cuyos pichones deben competir con los pichones de Molothrus ms grandes que en general eclosionan ms temprano. Estos costos en adecuacin seleccionan en favor de varias defensas por parte de los hopederos, que incluyen: nidos inconspicuos, agredir a los Molothrus, abandonar los nidos parasitados, y enterrar o rechazar los huevos de M. ater del nido. El rechazo del huevo es la defensa ms efectiva contra el parasitismo, pero se sabe que slo 30 especies de hospederos rechazan regularmente los huevos de M. ater. El retraso evolutivo es la causa ms probable para explicar porqu tan bajo nmero de hospederos demuestran rechazo. Sin embargo, una vez que el rechazo evoluciona en un hospedero, existe evidencia indicando que es mantenido por largo tiempo, an en ausencia de parasitismo de cra. Este ltimo fenmeno sugerira que las comunidades de hospederos se estaran volviendo cada vez ms resistentes al parasitismo. Con una progresin hacia un menor nmero de hospederos "inocentes" para explotar, los Molothrus pueden especializarse en unas pocas especies hospederas. La retencin de las defensas en los hospederos es tambin importante porque los Molothrus fueron probablemente ms abundantes en el pasado, cuando la megafauna de mamferos estaba presente. En consecuencia, no todas las especies de hospederos recientemente expuestas al parasitismo por Molothrus requeriran de programas de manejo de Molothrus. Muchas de ellas podran mantener defensas que habran heredado de ancestros que si estuvieron expuestos al parasitismo, haciendo que estuvieran bien defendidas contra nuevos eventos de parasitismo. Varios hospederos que actualmente son centro de programas de control demostraron defensas contra el parasitismo, y sus poblaciones se han incrementado. Nosotros sugerimos que ha llegado el tiempo de relajar el control sobre algunas de dichas especies, y de esta manera determinar si pueden mantener sus poblaciones en presencia del parasitismo. Al mismo tiempo, se estara permitiendo que sus defensas naturales se incrementaran, y de este modo, que no dependieran perpetuamente de la intervencin humana.
10.2307/40168278|This study provides the background for examining the historical biogeography of the South American avifauna by postulating 33 areas of endemism and listing representative endemic taxa for each area. The results of this analysis suggest that most avian species are narrowly endemic rather than widely distributed, which implies that phylogenetic analysis of different avian lineages should provide important evidence about the histories of the areas of endemism. Generally speaking, previous discussions about South American biogeography have interpreted most areas of endemism as Pleistocene forest "refugia." An alternative possibility is proposed here, namely that many of these areas are considerably older than the Pleistocene and that hierarchical patterns of endemism were established prior to that epoch. This view implies that the physiographic evolution of South America was probably as crucial in forming patterns of avian differentiation as were habitat changes caused by cyclical Pleistocene climates. /// Este estudio brinda una base para examinar histricamente la biogeografia de la avifauna sudamericana, proponiendo 33 reas de endemismo y nombrando taxa endmica representativa para cada rea. Los resultados de este anlisis sugieren que la mayora de las especies de aves son endmicas en reas muy pequeas ("narrowly endemic") en lugar de ampliamente distribudas, lo cual implica que los anlisis filogenticos de los distintos linajes de aves deben proveer evidencias de importancia para explicar la historia de las reas de endemismo. Generalmente, en discusiones previas respecto de la biogeografa sudamericana, la mayora de las reas de endemismo se han interpretado como "refugios" de los bosques del pleistoceno. En el presente trabajo se propone una posibilidad alternativa; muchas de esa reas son considerablemente ms antiguas que el pleistoceno y los patrones jerrquicos de endemismo fueron establecidos previamente a esa poca. Este punto de vista implica que la evolucin fisiogrfica de Sudamrica fue probablemente tan importante en la formacin de modelos de diferenciacin de avifauna como los cambios en los habitats causados por los ciclos climticos del pleistoceno.
10.2307/40587706|On the occasion of Ernst Mayr's recent passing, it is interesting to examine his career with two themes in mind: (1) the role of accidental events that fell his way and how he responded to them, and (2) his work within and outside ornithology and how each affected the other. Most important is that his central interests as a naturalist profoundly influenced all his empirical and theoretical work. His outlook as a naturalist, his broad empirical studies, and his ornithological knowledge permitted him significant new insights into the history and philosophy of biology. He showed that an understanding of the biology of a group of organisms, such as birds, provides a valid foundation for advances in biology. Con motivo del deceso reciente de Ernst Mayr, es interesante examinar su carrera teniendo en mente dos temas: (1) el rol de los eventos accidentales que interrumpieron su camino y cmo l respondi a los mismos, y (2) su trabajo dentro y fuera de la ornitologa y cmo uno afect al otro. Lo ms importante es que su inters central como naturalista influenci profundamente todo su trabajo emprico y terico. Su perspectiva como naturalista, sus estudios empricos amplios y su conocimiento ornitolgico le permitieron brindar significativos puntos de vista nuevos en cuanto a la historia y la filosofa de la biologa. l mostr que el entendimiento de la biologa de un grupo de organismos como las aves brinda una base vlida para avances en biologa.
10.2307/40157565|The avifauna of an isolated patch of Amazonian upland savanna in the Brazilian state of Amap was studied during October-November 1990. A total of 179 species was recorded, some of which were found for the first time in Amap or were known from this state only by old sight records. Forty-six species are known to inhabit savanna habitats in Amap. They may be grouped into four major distribution categories: (a) fourteen species with widespread distribution; (b) three species with distribution restricted to the savannas of northern South America; (c) two species distributed in a patchy fashion almost all the way around Amazonia; and (d) twenty-seven species with ranges centered in the open vegetation in Central Brazil. North of the Amazon, the high density of Central Brazilian species is found in Amap and Maraj savannas. This may indicate that possibly the most recent connections between savannas of the Cerrado Region in central Brazil and the islands of Amazonian savannas occurred along the Atlantic coast instead of across central Amazonia. This contrasts with what has been generally suggested by some proponents of the refuge theory. An urgent plan of conservation for Amazonian savannas is necessary, as large areas of this unique environment have been drastically modified in the last few decades. /// A avifauna de uma localidade de uma ilha de campo amaznico de terra firme no Estado do Amap, Brasil, foi estudada entre Outubro e Novembro de 1990. 179 espcies foram registradas para esta localidade, algumas das quais foram encontradas pela primeira primeira vez para o Amap ou foram conhecidas deste Estado somente com base em registros visuais antigos. Um total de 46 espcies registradas para o Amap so associadas primariamente com campos de terra firme. A distribuio destas espcies podem ser agrupadas em quatro grandes categorias: (a) quatorze espcies largamente distribuidas na Amrica do Sul; (b) trs espcies com distribuio centrada nas savanas do norte da Amrica do Sul; (c) duas espcies com distribuio em ilhas de vegetaes abertas em torno da Amaznia; e (d) vinte e sete espcies com o centro da distribuio centradas no Brasil central. Nos enclaves de campos de terra firme localizados ao norte do Rio Amazonas, a mais alta densidade de espcies com distribuies centradas no Brasil Central est nas savanas do Amap e Maraj. Isto pode indicar que talvez as conexes mais recentes entre estes enclaves e a regio do cerrado no Brasil Central ocorreram ao longo da costa Atlntica e no pelo centro da Amaznia, como tern sido geralmente proposto por alguns proponentes da teoria dos refgios. Um plano urgente de conserva para as ilhas de campos de terra firme dentro da Amaznia  necessrio, por causa que grandes reas deste tipo de ambiente singular tern sido drasticamente modificadas durante as ltimas dcadas.
10.1525/om.2010.67.1.24|Scientific debate over identification of taxa below the species level has persisted for centuries. This issue can be especially problematic for avian species, because dispersal is often orders of magnitude greater than in other vertebrates, leaving genetic differences among groups proportionately smaller. While the debate lingers, management decisions, often with millions of dollars and potential extinctions resting on the outcome, are regularly made by agencies tasked with maintaining lists of threatened and endangered taxa. With outdated taxonomic treatments and no formal policy or guidelines for defining species or subspecies, agencies have no authority to cite in determining limits to species or subspecies ranges. Lack of guidance from professional organizations regarding taxonomic criteria and lists does not benefit these species of concern. Here, we describe how subspecies designations are evaluated under the Endangered Species Act, tradeoffs between maintaining the biological species concept in avian taxonomy versus adopting a phylogenetic species approach, and why it is imperative for scientific organizations to maintain updated taxonomic treatments regardless of the species concept they use.
10.1525/om.2008.65.1.1|The evolution of longevity requires that the marginal investment in self-maintenance at the expense of reproductive effort is favored by realizing a longer reproductive lifespan. This can occur when extrinsic mortality factors (weather, predators, etc.) are less important than intrinsic mortality factors, such as the physiological cost of reproduction. Long-lived pelagic seabirds have low annual reproductive output and prolonged offspring growth periods that are thought to have evolved to accommodate marine resource variability. The life-history theory of senescence predicts that these same taxa should minimize
10.2307/40157539|Numerous well-differentiated and geographically representative taxa of birds (subspecies and species) meet in southern Amazonia along zones of secondary contact whose locations are independent of the courses of large and small rivers and their floodplains. Many of these contact zones cross the rivers at right angles, and others are displaced locally. Representative taxa that meet in the Rio Madeira-Rio Tapajs interfluvium inhabit the southern portion in the headwater region and the northern portion in the Amazonian lowlands, respectively. A number of northeastern Amazonian species extend their ranges across the lower Amazon River southward and, in some cases, exhibit secondary contact with relatives of southeastern Amazonia. The representative members of another group of species and subspecies pairs (which, in most cases, are separated by the wide lower Rio Tapajs) are in direct contact in the Rio Teles Pires region, the eastern headwater stream of the Rio Tapajs. Further contact zones cross large rivers in upper Amazonia. Birds that exhibit zones of contact include not only canopy birds but also species of the middle levels of the forest and some that are restricted to the rainforest understory. Contact zones represent regions of major biogeographic discontinuity in a continuous rainforest environment. An historical interpretation of their origin as zones of secondary contact implies large-scale separation of the respective bird populations during one or more periods of rainforest reduction during the geological past. Numerous indications of climatic-vegetational fluctuations during the Cenozoic, i.e., the Tertiary and Quaternary periods, and before are known from peripheral and central portions of Amazonia and other tropical areas of the world; these favor a refugial interpretation for the origin of the representative taxa of birds (and other animals) and their distribution patterns. Geographic separation of populations to the north and south of the Amazon River was caused by Pleistocene sea-level fluctuations that alternately flooded and exposed the central portions of the Amazon Valley (as well as portions of the continental shelf regions of South America) during interglacial and glacial periods, respectively. /// Vrias espcies e subespcies de aves bem diferenciadas e geograficamente representativas encontram-se ao longo de zonas de contato secundrio na regio sul da Amaznia. Essas zonas no esto relacionadas a cursos de rios grandes ou pequenos, nem a reas inundveis. Taxa representativos que se encontram no interflvio dos rios Madeira-Tapajs habitam, respectivamente, a poro sul na regio de cabeceira e a poro norte nas terras baixas Amazonenses. Vrias espcies do nordeste da Amaznia tm sua distribuio estendida em direo sul e em alguns casos exibem contato secundrio com espcies relacionadas do sudoeste da Amaznia. Outro grupo de pares de espcies e subespcies (que na maioria dos casos esto separadas pelo Rio Tapajs) esto em contato direto na regio do Rio Teles Pires, o rio de cabeceira ao leste do Rio Tapajs. Outras zonas de contato atravessam grandes rios na regio superior da Amaznia. Aves que exibem zonas de contato incluem espcies de dossel e de nvel intermedirio, e algumas espcies de sotobosque. Zonas de contato representam regies de grande descontinuidade biogeogrfica em um ambiente de floresta contnua. Uma interpretao histrica de sua origem como zonas de contato secundrio refere-se  separao em larga escala de populaes de aves durante um ou mais perodos de contrao da mata durante o passado geolgico. Durante o Cenozico (durante os perodos Tercirio, Quaternrio e anteriores), flutuaes climatico-vegetacionais so conhecidas de regies perifricas e centrais da Amaznia, e de outras reas tropicais do mundo. Essa evidncia sugere a hiptese de refgios para a origem e distribuio de taxa representativos de aves (e outros animais). A separao geogrfica de populaes ao norte e ao sul do Rio Amazonas deve-se a flutuaes do nvel do mar que inundavam e expunham, alternadamente, a regio central do Vale da Amaznia (e a regio das plataformas continentais da Amrica do Sul) durante perdos interglaciais e glaciais, respectivamente.
10.2307/40157573|This paper reports the findings of several surveys of the avifauna of the region surrounding the town of Alta Floresta, Mato Grosso, Brazil. We recorded a total of 474 species, many of which are regional endemics, which makes Alta Floresta one of the richest known sites in Brazil and all of eastern Amazonia. We provide information for a number of species range extensions and for species for which there were few previous records for Brazil. We also provide information on the vocalizations, foraging ecology, and habitat preferences for many rare or localized species that are poorly known. Of particular interest to us were a number of birds that, at least locally, are restricted in distribution to stands of spiny bamboo (Guadua sp.). The relevance of our findings to previously conducted surveys, current biogeographic hypotheses, and the many urgent regional conservation problems (including conservation priorities), are discussed. /// Apresentam-se os resultados de vrios levantamentos ornitolgicos da regio prxima a Alta Floresta, Mato Grosso, Brasil. Tendo um total de 474 espcies, inclusive muitas endmicas da regio, Alta Floresta  um dos stios mais ricos do Brasil e de toda a Amaznica oriental. Descrevemos extenses de distribuio de vrias espcies, muitas dessas tendo puocos registros no pas. Tambm descrevemos vocalizaes, ecologia de forrageamento, e preferncia de habitat em algumas espcies raras ou mal conhecidas. Particularlmente interessantes so espcies que, pelo menos localmente, so restritas a tabocais (bambuzais de Guadua sp.). Discutimos os resultados no contexto de levantamentos anteriores, hipteses biogeogrficas, e problemas urgentes regionais de conservao.
10.2307/40168320|For six years we studied the territorial systems and group composition of three species of antwren in the lowland tropical forest on Barro Colorado Island, Panama. Checker-throated Antwrens (Myrmotherula fulviventris) and Dotwinged Antwrens (Microrhopias quixensis) co-defended small (1.5 ha) territories that remained stable for the entire study. White-flanked Antwrens (Myrmotherula axillaris) defended larger (2-4 ha) more overlapping, and more fluctuating territories. We suggest that the territorial system of Dot-winged and Checker-throated antwrens is based on stable areas of dense vine-tangles, whereas White-flanked Antwrens are much less dependent on these areas. White-flanked Antwrens and Dot-winged Antwrens occur in small family groups; young remain with parents for long periods, occasionally overlapping breeding efforts in the following rainy season. Checker-throated Antwren young disperse relatively quickly. No difference in demography or population dynamics accounts for the interspecific variation in group size. Foraging ecology is the best predictor of nonbreeding season group size, not only in antwrens, but in understory insectivores in general. Foliage-gleaning species have the greatest tendency toward clan formation. We suggest that adults of foliage gleaning species are the least sensitive to disturbance from the addition of conspecifics (young) foraging in close proximity. /// Hemos estudiado los sistemas territoriales y la composicin de grupos de tres especies de pjaros hormigueros en las tierras bajas del bosque tropical de la Isla de Barro Colorado, Panam, durante seis aos. El hormiguero de garganta ajedrezada (Myrmotherula fulviventris) y el matorralero (Microrhopias quixensis) codefienden pequeos territories (1,5 ha) que nan permanecido estables a lo largo de todo el estudio. Los hormigueros de flancos blancos (Myrmotherula axillaris) defienden territorios mayores (2-4 ha) que se superponen ms y son ms fluctuantes. Sugerimos que los sistemas territoriales de las dos primeras especies estan basados en reas de vida estables en vegetacin enmaraada y densa, mientras que la ltima especie es mucho menos dependiente de esas reas. El matorralero y el hormiguero de flancos blancos, se encuentran en pequeos grupos familiares, los jvenes permanecen junto a los padres por largos perodos de tiempo y ocasionalmente se superponen a los esfuerzos reproductivos de la siguiente temporada de lluvia. Los jvenes del hormiguero de garganta ajedrezada se dispersan relativamente rpido. No se cuenta con diferencias en la demografia o en la dinmica de las poblaciones para explicar la variacin interespecfica en el tamao de los grupos. La ecologa de forraje es el mejor elemento para predecir el tamao de los grupos fuera de la temporada de reproduccin no slo en hormigueros, sin tambin de insectivoros en vegetacin inferior en general. Las especies que picotean comida de las hojas "foliage-gleaning") tienen la mayor tendencia a la formacin de clanes. Sugerimos que los adultos de las especies "foliage-gleaning" son menos sensibles a ser perturbados por la presencia adicional de con-especficos (los jvenes) forrajeando muy cerca.
10.2307/40168317|We ask how disturbance affects the land birds of the Pearl Archipelago, Panama. We analyze 15 censuses conducted on 11 islands between 1971 and 1978. Avian abundances are highly predictable among islands and years. Two islands with unusual forests support unique bird communities. The nine remaining islands form two groups. The first includes large islands and their immediate satellites. These islands support several bird species that are not found on the second group of small, isolated islands. Community structure is similar among islands within each group and consistently different among islands drawn from different groups. These patterns are repeatable from year to year despite disturbances such as fire, windstorms, and drought, that occurred between 1971 and 1978. We conclude that disturbance has minimal impact on this community, and we suggest that disturbance will be more important to sessile organisms than to mobile organisms. The number of Pearl Islands whose avifaunas are known is increased from four to 14. The species-area relation is exponential. /// Nos preguntamos en que manera las aves del Archipilago de las Perlas son afectadas por perturbaciones. Analizamos 15 censos conducidos en 11 islas entre 1971 y 1978. Se puede predecir con relativa certeza la abundancia de aves a lo largo de las islas y los aos. Dos islas que poseen bosques inusuales, soportan comunidades avcolas nicas. Las nueve islas restantes forman dos grupos. El primero incluye islas grandes y sus islas satlites que las circundan inmediatamente. Estas islas tienen varias especies de aves que no se encuentran en el segundo grupo de islas pequeas y aisladas. La estructura de la comunidad es similar entre islas de un mismo grupo, y consistentemente diferente si se las compara con islas de grupos diferentes. Estos modelos se repiten ao tras ao, a pesar de perturbaciones tales como incendios, tormentas de viento y sequas, que nan ocurrido entre 1971 y 1978. Nuestra conclusin es que las perturbaciones tienen un efecto mnimo en esta comunidad y sugerimos que sern mucho ms importantes para organismos ssiles que para organismos mbiles. El conocimiento de la avifauna de las islas del Archipilago de las Perlas se incrementado de 4 a 14. La relacin entre el nmero de especies y el rea de la isla es exponential.
10.2307/40166719|Differences among species in breeding system and degree of sexual dimorphism are thought to be mirrored by species-level differences in past or present sexual selection. The greater the deviation from monogamy, the greater the potential influence of sexual selection on the sex that is more variable in reproductive success (RS). The recent discovery of extra-pair fertilizations (EPFs) in apparently (i.e., socially) monogamous bird species, and the fact that EPFs have the potential to increase variance in RS of such species, led us to quantify EPFs in Dark-eyed Juncos and to explore the relative impact of EPFs on male and female variation in RS. We obtained season-long measures of frequency of EPFs, numbers of mates acquired, and apparent RS (young produced in nests of social mates) and genetic RS for 50 male and 45 female juncos studied during two breeding seasons in Virginia, USA. Forty-two of the 50 males produced offspring and 19 of these 42 (45.2%) lost paternity to EPFs. Thirty-eight of the 45 females produced offspring, and 13 of the 38 (34.2%) had at least one young sired by EPFs. There were no cases of conspecific brood parasitism. Of 187 young, 53 (28%) were sired by EPFs. Males that gained EPFs rarely suffered losses, and males that were victims of EPFs rarely gained by them. The result was that some males were more successful than others. We calculated variance in male and female apparent and genetic RS and mating success (MS, number of mates per season). We also calculated statistical dependence of RS on mating success. Among males, apparent reproductive success was less variable (standardized variance [SV] = 0.55) than genetic success (SV = 0.72), indicating that EPFs increased variance in male RS. The sex difference in variance in genetic success (male SV = 0.72, female SV = 0.51) was considerably less than the sex difference in variance in mating success (male SV = 0.65, female SV = 0.37). Interestingly, in both males and females, genetic RS increased with number of mates, suggesting that sexual selection, when defined as the statistical dependence of RS on MS, was acting on both sexes. To our knowledge this is the first study to report EPF-based sexual selection in a socially monogamous female songbird. Although an increase in RS with MS will clearly cause selection to favor attributes of individuals that mate multiply, some would argue that selection should be called sexual only in situations in which access to additional mates is necessary to increased RS. Others see value in the statistical definition employed here. Regardless of the definition, more interspecific comparisons of males and females with respect to variance in apparent RS, genetic RS, MS, and the relative degree of dependence of RS on MS, should prove useful in determining whether and how these measures relate to degree of sexual dimorphism.
10.2307/40157566|We surveyed the avifauna of two humid lowland forest sites in eastern Rondnia, Brazil. Although Rondnia has been suggested as a site of a Pleistocene refugium for birds and contains a number of species and subspecies endemic to it, the state has attracted little field work by modern ornithologists. We provide locality lists with information on relative abundance, habitat use and migratory status for Cachoeira Nazar, on the Rio Jiparan, and Pedra Branca, on the Rio Anari. The species list of 459 at Cachoeira Nazar is the largest for any single locality in Brazil. We also report in more detail on 30 species that are poorly known or for which eastern Rondnia represented a significant range extension. One species of bird (Rondonia Bushbird, Clytoctantes atrogularis) was recently described from the site (Lanyon et al. 1990), and an additional species (Gray-throated Leaftosser, Sclerurus albigularis) was recorded from Brazil for the first time. /// Apesar de seu grande nmero de espcies e subespcies de aves endmicas, o estado de Rondnia  mal explorado por ornitlogos. Fizemos um levantamento de aves em duas localidades no leste do estado de Rondnia, Brasil, e fornecemos aqui listas com informaes sobre a abundnia relativa, o uso de habitat, e a categoria migratria de cada ave encontrada em Cachoeira Nazar, no Rio Jiparan, e em Pedra Branca, no Rio Anari. Com 459 especies, a lista de Cachoeira Nazar  a maior existente para uma nica localidade no Brasil. Fornecemos mais detalhes sobre trinta espcies que so pouco conhecidas, ou que mostram uma grande extenso em rea de distribuio. Uma espcie de ave (choca-de-garganta-preta, Clytoctantes atrogularis) foi recentemente decrita nesta localidade (Lanyon et al. 1990). Uma outra espcie (vira-folha-de-garganta-cinza, Sclerurus albigularis) foi registrada pela primeira vez no Brasil.
10.2307/40168322|A large number of neotropical bird species in many families regularly eat fruit. We discuss the physiological, morphological, and behavioral adaptations associated with eating fruits. Fruits present a number of difficulties for the frugivores, such as the low protein to calorie ratio, the watery bulk, and the undigestible seed mass. Although we find no consistent morphological adaptations for digesting fruits, we show that important adaptations in digestive physiology are to be expected. Both large and small birds have similarly diverse diets, but small birds, such as tanagers and manakins, eat mainly small, carbohydrate-rich fruits, while large species, such as cotingas and toucans, eat a wider range of fruit sizes including both small, carbohydrate-rich fruits and large, lipid-rich fruits. Most fruit-eaters have large gapes, and many birds swallow fruits whole, although a number of bird species, both small and large, may facultatively eat some large fruits piecemeal. Tanagers and some emberizid finches generally eat fruits by mashing the pulp, swallowing the pulp, juices and small seeds, but dropping medium and large seeds. Birds that take fruits on the wing usually have short, wide, flat bills, whereas those that reach fruits from perches often have long and narrow bills. Differences in bill structure affect the manner of fruit handling and may influence fruit selection. Most species take fruits either primarily on the wing or primarily from perches. We divide these two general foraging methods into four foraging maneuvers on the wing (hovering, stalling, swooping, and snatching) and three foraging maneuvers from a perch (picking, reaching, and hanging). These foraging techniques differentially affect access to fruits. Differences in flight maneuvers are associated with differences in wing-loading, wing aspect ratio, and degree of slotting. Likewise differences in ability to reach fruit from a perch are correlated with differences in tarsus shape and leg musculature. Very few birds are able to reach fruits well and also pluck them expertly on the wing. The dichotomy of frugivorous birds into specialists and generalists, with only a couple exceptions, is not supported by comparison of diet, behavior, morphology, or function as dispersers. The important differences among fruit-eating birds depend on the constraints of morphology on behavior. Differences in digestive systems, bill strength and shape, wing and leg morphology, and body weight differentially affect the accessibility of fruits, the ease with which they are handled, the rate at which they are eaten, the efficiency with which they are digested, and thus influence which fruits are selected. The presence of fruit-eating birds in so many families is not evidence for lack of requirements for eating fruits but rather represents adaptive specialization to exploit fruits displayed in different ways. /// En las zonas neotropicales se encuentran un gran numero de especies de aves pertenecientes a numerosas familias cuya dieta consiste de frutas. Presentamos una discusin sobre las adaptaciones fisiolgicas, morfolgicas y de comportamiento que estn asociadas con la costumbre de comer frutas. El comer frutas le presenta una serie de problemas a aves frugvoras como por ejemplo: una relacin baja entre protenas y caloras, un gran volumen de materia acuosa y la presencia de semillas indigeribles. Aunque no encontramos adaptaciones digestivas morfolgicas generates para comer frutas, demostramos que adaptaciones digestivas fisiolgicas en aves frugvoras son de esperarse. Las aves frugvoras, tanto las grandes como las pequeas, tienen dietas similares en cuanto a la diversidad de frutas. Sin embargo, las aves pequeas, como las tangaras y los saltarines, se alimentan mayormente de frutas pequenas que son ricas en carbohidratos; mientras que las aves de mayor tamao, como las cotingas y los tucanes, se alimentan de frutas de diversos tamaos; tanto de frutas pequeas ricas en carbohidratos, como de frutas grandes ricas en lipidos. La mayora de las especies frugvoras tienen un rictus ancho y muchas ingieren la fruta entera sin despedazarla. Sin embargo, algunas especies, tanto grandes como pequeas, tienen la capacidad facultativa de comerze la fruta trozo a trozo. Las tangaras y algunos de los pinzones usualmente se comen la fruta despus de aplastarla con el pico. Usando este mtodo ellos ingieren la pulpa, el jugo y las semillas pequeas, pero rechazan las semillas grandes y medianas. Las especies que obtienen la fruta volando, generalmente tienen picos cortos, anchos y de poca profundidad. Mientras que las que obtienen la fruta desde una percha comnmente tienen picos largos y estrechos. Estas diferencias en la estructura del pico afectan la manera en que el ave manipula la fruta y pueden influenciar el proceso de seleccin entre diferentes frutas. La mayora de las especies usan uno de dos mtodos principales para obtener las frutas, las toman volando o las toman desde una percha. Para las especies que obtienen las frutas volando, dividimos las maniobras de forrajeo en cuatro categoras: "hovering," "stalling," "snatching" y "swooping." Para las especies que obtienen la fruta desde una percha, dividimos las maniobras de forrajeo en tres categorias: "picking," "reaching" y "hanging." Todos estos metodos de forrajeo afectan de manera diferente el acceso que un ave pueda tener a una fruta. Las diferencias en maniobras de vuelo estn asociadas con diferencias aerodinmicas como el "wing-loading," "wing aspect ratio" y el grado de "slotting." De igual manera, las diferencias entre las especies en la abilidad de alcanzar frutas desde una percha estn asociadas con diferencias en la forma del tarso y la musculatura de las patas. Son muy pocas las especies que tienen la capacidad de obtener frutas desde una percha fcilmente y a la misma vez poder tomar frutas en vuelo con destreza. La dicotomia existente entre aves frugvoras "especialistas" y aves frugvoras "generalistas" no est apoyada por nuestras comparasiones de las dietas, comportamientos, morfolgias, o la funcin de las especies como dispersoras de semillas. Las diferencias mas importantes entre las aves frugvoras se basan en las restricciones impuestas por la morfologa y el comportamiento del ave. Diferencias en el sistema digestivo, la fuerza y connguracin del pico, la morfologa de las patas y alas y el peso del ave afectan de la manera diferente la accesibilidad de las frutas, la facilidad con que se manipulan, la rapidez con que se ingieren y la eficiencia con que se digieren y por lo tanto, influyen de manera muy importante en el proceso de seleccin entre diferentes frutas. La presencia de tantas aves frugvoras pertenencientes a numerosas familias no representa una evidencia de que no se necesitan adaptaciones para comer frutas, si no demuestra numerosas especializaciones adaptivas para ex- plotar frutas que estn presentadas en maneras diferentes.
10.2307/40168313|The sociobiology of mixed species flocks is reviewed and used as a basis for evaluating the adaptive significance of flocking. Virtually all data currently available deal with mixed flocks of insectivores, so this review deals primarily with those flocks with only minimal reference to flocks of frugivores and granivores. Most insectivorous species that participate in mixed flocks remain paired and defend exclusive feeding territories year round. Territoriality restricts intraspecific group sizes in flocks to single pairs or small family groups. Since territorial individuals are forced to leave a flock whenever it moves beyond their respective territory boundaries, there is a high turnover rate in flock composition. Some species reduce or eliminate turnover by aligning their respective territories so that they overlap completely. This alignment enables individuals of these species to remain permanently associated in the same mixed flock (except during some phases of the breeding cycle). Territory sizes of mixed flocking species are small (< 1-10 ha), and territory holders forage throughout their entire territories every few days. Foraging ranges of mixed flock participants remain relatively constant throughout the year with slight expansions due to increased trespassing during some periods of the year. The foraging niches of mixed flocking insectivores include a wide array of behaviors. Analyses of foraging niches reveal little overlap among most species, although sympatric congeners of at least one genus of Formicariidae (Myrmotherula) appear to overlap more than expected. Hypotheses concerning the adaptive significance of flocking are categorized as those predicting that flocking enhances foraging or reduces predation pressure. Analyses of spatial use and foraging niche characteristics of flocking species support some of both hypothesis categories. In general, however, the small intraspecific group sizes and home ranges resulting from permanent territoriality, and the high diversity of foraging niches tend to minimize the applicability of forage enhancement hypotheses. Limited cases of imitative foraging and foraging facilitation from the flushing of insects (beater effect) are reported. Predation reduction, through improvement of surveillance, appears to be an important function of mixed species flocking. Support for this conclusion is still largely indirect, but increasing field evidence is accumulating. /// Se revee la sociobiologa de bandadas mixtas (compuestas por varias especies) y se usa como una base para evaluar el significado adaptativo de andar en bandadas. Casi toda la informatin disponible se refiere a bandadas mixtas de insectvoros, por lo que esta revisin se refiere en forma mnima a bandadas de frugvoros o granvoros. La mayora de las especies insectvoras que participan de bandadas mixtas se mantienen en pareja y defienden territorios de alimentacin exclusivos durante todo el ao. Esta territorialidad restringe el tamao de los grupos intraespecficos en una bandada a unicamente pares o pequeos grupos familiares. Debido a que individuos territorialistas estn obligados a salir de la bandada cuando esta se translada fuera de los lmites de sus territorios, hay un alto nivel de cambio en la composicin de la bandada. Algunas especies disminuyen o eliminan el intercambio de individuos, alineando sus respectivos territorios, de manera que ellos se superpongan completamente. Esta alineacin le permite a los individuos de esa especie quedar asociados permanentemente en la misma bandada mixta (excepto durante algunas fases del ciclo reproductive). Las superficies de los territorios de varias especies participantes de bandadas mixtas son pequenas (<1-10 ha) y los ciudadores de los territorios forrajean a lo largo de todos sus territorios cada pocos dias. Los rangos de forraje de miembros de bandadas mixtas son relativamente constantes a lo largo del ao con pequeas expansiones debido al aumento de las intrusiones durante ciertos perodos del ao. Los nichos de forrajeo de bandadas mixtas de insectivoros incluyen una amplia variedad de comportamientos. Anlisis de nichos de forraje revelan poca superposicin entre la mayora de las especies, aunque congneres simptricos de al menos un gnero de Formicariidae (Myrmotherula) parecen superponerse ms que los esperado. Las hiptesis concernientes al significado adaptativo de andar en bandadas estn clasificadas como aquellas que predicen que facilitan el forrajeo o que reducen las presiones de depredacin. Anlisis del uso espacial y de las caractersticas de los nichos de forraje de especies en bandadas, apoyan algo de ambas categoras hipotticas. Sin embargo, en general, los grupos pequeos intraespecficos y reas de vida pequeas debidas a territorios permanentes y la gran diversidad de nichos de forraje tienden a minimizar la aplicabilidad de la hiptesis de realce de forraje. Se informa sobre casos de imitacin de forraje y facilitamiento de forraje debido a la desaparicin de insectos ("beater effect"). El mejoramiento de la vigilancia parece ser una funcin importante de las bandadas compuestas por varias especies ya que disminuye la depredacin. Los elementos que apoyan esta conclusin son muy indirectos, pero cada vez se estn acumulando ms evidencias desde el campo.
10.2307/40168321|Several species of vultures are commonly found in neotropical forests, but none has occupied the forested regions of the Old World. It is suggested that a greater abundance of food for large scavenging animals may exist in New World forests because of their higher mammalian biomass and the complexity of their invertebrate communities. Cathartid vultures are highly efficient at searching for food and may be the major scavengers of large mammal carcasses in the neotropical forest. /// Se encuentran varias especies de butres en bosques neotropicales, pero ninguno ha ocupado regiones boscosas en el Viejo Mundo. Se sugiere que la mayor abundancia de comida para animales carroeros, existente en los bosques del Nuevo Mundo se debera a su mayor biomasa de mamferos y a la complejidad de su comunidad de invertebrados. Los buitres de la familia Cathartidae son muy eficientes buscando comida y pueden ser los mayores carroeros de carcasas de mamferos grandes en los bosques neotropicales.
10.2307/40168319|The host-parasite interactions between a generalist brood parasite, the Shiny Cowbird (Molothrus bonariensis), and one of its hosts, the Chalk-browed Mockingbird (Mimus saturninus), were studied from 1972 to 1979 at a study site in Buenos Aires Province, Argentina. Particular attention was paid to the possible co-evolution of host defenses and parasite counterdefenses in the system. Field observations and experiments were used to estimate selective pressures and to detect correlative responses in both species. The relationship between host and parasite is characterized by a high incidence of parasitism, as cowbird eggs were observed in 78.1 percent (50 of 65) of the mockingbird nests. Parasitism reduced the mean number of mockingbirds reared per nesting attempt by 69.9 percent (0.93 in non-parasitized nests, 0.28 in parasitized ones). Reproductive success of the parasite was low, as only six young cowbirds were reared from 102 eggs (5.9%); still, the lower success of the cowbird in nests of other local passerines makes mockingbirds a reasonably good host choice. Possible mockingbird defenses against brood parasitism include early nesting (before the cowbird laying season) and nest guarding. Cowbird eggs in the study site are of two morphs, immaculate and spotted, occurring in roughly equal frequencies in nests of most host species. Mockingbirds ejected nearly all immaculate cowbird eggs, but few spotted ones. Cowbird nestlings in mixed broods have a significantly lower chance of fledging than host nestlings: 37 percent starved in one to seven days. The smaller size and (presumably) the lower competitive ability of the parasitic nestling may explain this. This differential pattern of mortality resembles brood reduction; it may not have evolved as an antiparasitic defense of mockingbirds. Shiny Cowbirds do not seem to have evolved any specific, successful adaptation to deal with this particular host, except perhaps gregariousness during nest searching; this may counteract nest guarding by mockingbirds. There was no evidence that cowbirds avoided laying immaculate eggs in nests of this host, although the success for this egg morph was almost zero. Female cowbirds that lay immaculate eggs have alternative, suitable hosts. No evidence exists of host fidelity among female Shiny Cowbirds, and probably most individuals that parasitize mockingbirds are reared by more abundant host species with fewer antiparasite defenses. /// Entre 1972 y 1979 en un sitio de estudio de la provincia de Buenos Aires, se estudi la interactin entre anfitrin y parsito en una especie de ave que parasita nidos de diferentes especies de aves, el Molothrus bonariensis y una de sus especies anfitrionas, Mimus saturninus. Se prest particular atencio a la posibilidad de coevolucin de defensa del anfitrin y la contradefensa del parsito en el sistema. Se realizaron observaciones de campo y experimentos para determinar las presiones selectivas y detectar respuestas correlativas en ambas especies. La relacin entre la especie anfitriona y la parsita se caracteriza por una gran incidencia de parasitismo ya que los huevos de Molothrus bonariensis fueron observados en 78.1 por ciento (50 de 65) de los nidos de Mimus saturninus. La presencia del parsito redujo el promedio de polluelos de saturninus criados por nido en 69.9 por ciento (0.93 en nidos no parasitados y 0.28 en parasitados). El xito reproductivo del parsito fue bajo, ya que slo seis jovenes fueron criados de un total de 102 huevos (5.9%); pero de cualquier manera el poco xito de los bonariensis en nidos de otros passeriformes, hace que sea rasonablemente buena la eleccin del saturninus como especie anfitriona. Es posible que las defensas del saturninus en contra del parasitismo de la nidada incluya anidacin temprana (antes de que el bonariensis comience su poca de desove) y cuidado del nido. Los huevos del bonariensis, en el rea de estudio, fueron de dos diferentes formas, lisos o moteados, presentandose en frecuencia ms o menos similar en los nidos de la especie anfitriona. Los saturninus echaron del nido casi todos los huevos lisos, pero slo unos pocos de los moteados. Los polluelos de bonariensis en nidadas mixtas, tienen significativamente posibilidades ms bajas de que sus cras sobrevivan que los de la especie anfitriona: 37 por ciento murieron de hambre entre el primero y el sptimo da. El tamao ms pequeo y (presumiblemente) la menor habilidad competitiva de los pichones parsitos pueden explicar esto. Estos diferentes patrones de mortalidad se asemejan a la reduccin de la nidada; puede que no haya evolucionado como una defensa antiparsita. Los Molothrus bonariensis no parecen haber desarrollado ninguna adaptacin especfica y exitosa para sobreponerse a esta especie anfitriona "dificil," con excepcin quizs de su comportamiento gregario durante la bsqueda de nidos; esto puede ser contrarrestado por el cuidado del nido del Mimidae. No hubo evidencias de que el tordo evitar desovar huevos lisos en nidos de esta anfitriona, a pesar de que el xito de ese tipo de huevos fue casi cero. Hembras de los tordas que ponen huevos lisos tienen alternativamente otras especies anfitrionas. No hay evidencias de que exista una fidelidad hacia la especie anfitriona y es probable que la mayora de los individuos que parasitan sean criados por otras especies ms abundantes con menor cantidad de defensas antiparasitarias.
10.2307/40168275|Geographic variation in the measurements and coloration of Panterpe insignis is described, with particular reference to a newly discovered population on Volcn Miravalles in the Cordillera de Guanacaste of northwestern Costa Rica. This population, which extends the distribution of the species ca. 50 km to the northwest, has probably been isolated since the Pleistocene and is sufficiently differentiated to warrant recognition as P. i. eisenmanni, new subspecies. The ecology and annual cycle of the Volcn Miravalles population, and seasonal movements in other populations, are briefly described. /// Se describe la variacin en las medidas y coloracin de Panterpe insignis en relacin con su distribucin geogrfica, refirindose especialmente a una poblacin recientemente descubierta en el Volcn Miravalles de la Cordillera de Guanacaste en el noroeste costarricense. Esta poblacin, cuyo descubrimiento extiende el rango de distribucin de la especie aproximadamente 50 km hacia el noroeste, probablemente ha permanecido aislada desde el pleistoceno y se diferencia de manera suficiente como para garantizar el reconocimiento de P. i. eisenmanni, subesp. nova. Se describe brevemente la ecologa y el ciclo anual de esta poblacin del Volcn Miravalles, as como los movimientos estacionales de otras poblaciones.
10.1525/om.2010.67.1.42|Avian taxonomists have traditionally used subspecies to describe geographic variation in morphology, plumage, and song. A complementary evolutionary perspective is that subspecies are incipient species, representing the first stages of speciation. Here, I review the evidence that subspecies may capture early stages of the speciation process and consider what we have learned about factors that drive subspecies diversification. I apply variants on the birthdeath model to species age and subspecies richness data from 1,100 bird species. Clade-wide estimates of species diversification rates correlate positively with subspecies origination (hereafter "subspeciation") rates but not subspecies richness; thus, the evidence for heritable factors promoting speciation and subspeciation is equivocal. Subspeciation rates are higher among insular than among continental species, although this result is highly sensitive to the definition of insularity.
10.2307/40168309|In an attempt to understand ecological constraints on bird species distributions, the only major neotropical island system, the West Indies were studied. Discussed among previously-described patterns of structure from a 12 island study are: incidence regressions for guild membership on islands, using four simple food/ foraging guilds (frugivores, gleaning insectivores, flycatching insectivores, and nectarivores); saturation curves for total species and guild membership within habitats on large islands; and size differences coexistingbetween coexisting members of insectivorous and nectarivorous guilds in all island habitats and between coexisting frugivores on small and medium islands. The existence of size shifts and other responses have shown these to be real patterns and not the result of either redundancy in species lists or chance colonizations. Here this approach is expanded where possible to include 26 West Indian islands (excluding the Bahamas and extralimital islands) using published species distributions. The correlation between guild membership and total number of land-bird species on an island holds for frugivores and insectivores throughout the West Indies. Patterns of guild membership saturation and size differences between coexisting guild members (except large island frugivores) seem to apply to all islands but Jamaica and Grand Cayman; on these islands some habitats appear to be supersaturated (by West Indian standards) and guild members of unusually similar size coexist. The unusual patterns of structure on Jamaica may reflect resource differences from other islands, its proximity to source areas, or both. The variations found on Cuba and Grand Cayman may be the results of climatic constraints on the resources of those islands, which are regularly exposed to temperate weather patterns. The distributional patterns of West Indian bird species are next discussed in the context of these apparent ecological constraints. The existence of ecological counter-parts on different islands, habitat or size shifts due to varying competition, and other such patterns are noted. Situations where the ecological rules seem to be strained by present bird distributions are also indicated. In many cases the interactions between the ecological variation of a species and its taxonomic distinctions are readily apparent; further analyses at the subspecies level would yield further examples of this interaction. In conclusion, West Indian patterns of bird community structure are compared with those on eight neotropical land-bridge islands. The regressions for guild membership in relation to total land bird species in the West Indies very closely describe the same relationships for insectivorous and frugivorous guilds on land-bridge islands. Only for nectarivores does the West Indian pattern differ greatly from the land-bridge island pattern. Habitat saturation patterns differ, and size separations within guilds rarely occur on the land-bridge islands, probably because of species-area relationships very different from those of the West Indies. Nevertheless, the convergence of at least some of the structural patterns on all neotropical islands suggests that someday the constraints of community assembly for communities as large as the 200 species of Trinidad may be understood. With this knowledge, it should be easier to understand the ecological constraints at work in the diverse tropical mainland avifaunas. /// En un intento por entender los constreimientos ecolgicos en la distribucin de aves se estudi el uico gran sistema insular neotropical-las Antillas. A lo largo de estudios realizados previamente fueron discutidos patrones de estructuras de 12 islas, tales como: las correlaciones de incidencia de miembros de grupos ecolgicos ("incidence regressions for guild membership") en islas usando cuatro grupos simples de comida/forrajeo (frugvoros, espigadores ("gleaning") de insectos, atrapa-moscas, y nectarvoros); curvas de saturation para el total de especies y socios de grupos ecolgicos ("guild membership") en habitats de islas grandes; y diferencias de tamao entre miembros coexistentes de grupos ecolgicos de insectvoros y nectarvoros en todos los habitats de islas y entre frugvoros coexistentes en islas pequeas y medianas. La existencia de cambios de medidas u otras respuestas han mostrado que estos son verdaderos patrones y no el resultado de ya sea redundancia en la lista de especies o colonizacin al azar.Este intento es extendido, cuando es posible, hasta inclur 26 islas antillanas (excluyendo Bahamas e islas extralimtrofes) usando distribuciones de especies publicadas. La correlacin entre los socios de grupos ecolgicos y el nmero total de especies de aves terrestres en una isla se mantiene para frugvoros e insectvoros, a lo largo de todas las Antillas. Parecen aplicarse patrones de saturacin de socios de grupos ecolgicos y diferencias en tamaos entre miembros coexistentes del mismo grupo (excepto para grandes fugvoros insulares) para todas las islas con excepcin de Jamaica y Gran Cayman; en esas islas algunos habitats parecen estar supersaturados (para lo normal en las Antillas) y coexisten miembros de un grupo ecolgico de medidas inusualmente similares. Los inusuales patrones de estructura en Jamaica pueden reflejar diferencias de recursos con respecto a otras islas, su proximidad a reas de origen, o ambos. Las variaciones encontradas en Cuba y Gran Cayman, pueden ser los resultados de constreimientos climaticos en los recursos de esas islas, que estan expuestos regularmente a patrones de clima templado. A continuacin se discuten los patrones de distributin de las especies de aves de las Indias Occidentals en el contexto de esos constreimientos ecolgicos. Se describe la existencia de contrapartes ecolgicos en diferentes islas, habitat o cambio de tamao debido a competencia variable y otros patrones similares. Tambien se indican las situaciones donde las reglas ecolgicas parecen haber sido presionadas por las distribuciones actuates de aves. En muchos casos las interacciones entre variacion ecolgica de una especie y sus distribuciones taxonmicas son fcilmente aparentes; ms anlisis al nivel de subespecie producir ejemplos de esta interaccin. En conclusin se comparan los patrones de estructura de la comunidad de aves de las Indias Occidentals con aquellos en ocho islas neotropicales unidas al continente ("land bridge islands"). Las regresiones para socios de grupos ecolgicos en relacin al total de especies de aves terrestres de las Indias Occidentals describe muy cercanamente las mismas relaciones para socios insectvoros y frugvoros en islas unidas al continente. El patrn de las Indias Occidentals slo difiere notablemente del de las islas unidas al continente en el caso de los nectarivoros. Los patrones de saturaci6n de habitats difieren y las separaciones entre socios se puede presentar raramente en las islas unidas al continente, probablemente porque la relacin especie-area es muy diferente de aquellas en las Indias Occidentals. Sim embargo la convergencia de al menos algunos de los patrones estructurales de todas las islas neotropicales sugiere que algun da podrn entenderse los constreimientos del ensamble de la comunidad para comunidades tan grandes como la de las 200 especies de Trinidad. Con este conocimiento deber ser fcil ms entender los constreimientos ecolgicos que trabajan en las diversas avifaunas tropicales continentales.
10.2307/40157559|We used spot-map methods to census birds in two plots (40 ha and 80 ha) representing the early and middle stages of primary succession generated by the meandering of the Manu River in southeastern Peru in 1983 and 1985. We distinguished seven distinct successional stages beginning with the first plant communities growing on open beaches (Tessaria: stage 1) and proceeding through mature floodplain forest (stage 7). Each successional stage was more structurally and floristically complex. One plot was dominated by early successional vegetation (stages 1-5) and the other was dominated by middle-to-late stages (5-6). We supplemented spot-map data with mist netting to census nonterritorial species, principally nectarivores and frugivores. Because the earliest successional stage (Tessaria) covered only small (<3 ha) areas on any given meander tongue, we censused six additional stands to characterize their bird communities. Species richness increased along the successional gradient, but not uniformly. Structurally simple Tessaria stands (stage 1) contained more diverse communities of breeding birds than the next two successional stages, which appeared to have few resources available to birds. After stage 3, breeding species richness increased by 31-71 species per successional stage as a distinct canopy layer formed (stage 4), fruiting trees became more available (stages 5-6) and the vertical structure of the forest became fully developed (stage 7: 71 more species than stage 6). Early successional bird communities (stages 1-3) were dominated by a few very abundant insectivores and omnivores, but wanderers from the adjacent forest plus Nearctic and austral migrants seasonally outnumbered breeding residents. Many species that breed in Tessaria stands were restricted to just one or two of the seven stands censused. The middle stages of succession had the highest estimated richness, abundance, and biomasses of nectarivores and frugivores. Nectarivore abundance reflected the huge stands of Heliconia that dominate the understory of mid-successional stages. Bark foragers reached their highest abundance in late successional stages as the dominant canopy tree species of middle successional stages (e.g., Cedrela odorata) began to die off, but remained standing. Middle successional stages lacked many of the insectivores characteristic of more structurally complex mature forest. Among the missing species were understory flockers, ant-followers, ground foragers, and many arboreal insectivores that participate in canopy flocks. Species of early and middle stages tended to be more abundant on average than those of mature forest. Early-/and late-successional bird communities had few species in common, and many congeners segregated along this successional gradient. Most species characteristic of early successional vegetation, however, were also found in many other kinds of natural and anthropogenic disturbances. The Tessaria beaches of the Manu lacked most species endemic to the same successional stage on the larger rivers in the Amazon system. Mid-successional stages had relatively fewer species restricted to them, but some of these species are rare and endemic to southwestern Amazonia. Many characteristic species of floodplains reached their peak abundances in stages 4-6. Mid-successional stages, therefore, may play a greater role in contributing to the unusually high species richness of western Amazonia than had previously been recognized. These results point to the importance of preserving natural, undammed meandering rivers in conserving the avian diversity of Amazonia. Logging and agricultural development of mid-successional floodplain forests probably has a negative impact on regional bird communities. Not all species of the early and middle stages of succession have adapted to human-generated secondary succession. Recovery of the full diversity and richness of tropical bird communities following disturbance may take several hundred years, although care must be taken when extrapolating results from primary to secondary successional gradients. /// Durante 1983 y 1985, se utiliz el mtodo de mapeo de territories para censar aves en dos parcelas (40 ha y 80 ha), las cuales representan las etapas temprana y media de sucesin primaria generadas por los meandros del rb Man en el sureste de Per. Se pudieron distinguir siete etapas de sucesin que van desde las primeras comunidades vegetales que crecen en las playas abiertas (Tessaria: etapa 1), hasta el bosque maduro en la llanura aluvial (etapa 7); siendo cada una de stas etapas ms compleja estructural y floristicamente que las anteriores. Una de las parcelas estuvo compuesta por vegetacin temprana (etapas 1-5), mientras que la otra fue representada por etapas medias a tardas de sucesin (5-7). Para censar especies no territoriales, principalmente aves nectarvoras y frugvoras, se suplment el mtodo de mapeo de territorios con el uso de redes de viento. Debido a que la etapa ms temprana de sucesin (Tessaria) abarc solamente reas muy paqueas (<3 ha) en cada uno de los meandros del no, se censaron seis zonas adicionales para poder caracterizar a las communidades de aves que ste hbitat sostiene. La riqueza de especies de aves se increment a lo largo del gradiente de sucesin florstica, ste incremento sin embargo, no fue uniforme. Las zonas estructuralmente ms simples, compuestas por Tessaria (etapa 1) soportaron comunidades ms diversas de aves anidando que las dos etapas siguientes de sucesin; aparentemente stas ltimas etapas contienen menos recursos disponibles para las aves. A partir de la tercera etapa, la riqueza de especies de aves se increment entre 31 y 71 especies por etapa como resultado de la formacin de una capa adicional de la vegetatin (etapa 4), el aumento en la disponibilidad de rboles frutales (etapas 5 y 6), y el desarrollo completo de la estructura vertical del bosque (la etapa 7 present 71 especies ms que la etapa 6). Las comunidades de aves en las etapas tempranas de sucesin (etapas 1-3), estuvieron compuestas principalmente por unas cuantas especies muy abundantes de insectvoros y omnvoros; las especies errantes del bosque adyacente y las migratorias neotropicales y australes, sin embargo, excedieron estacionalmente en nmero a las residentes anidantes. Muchas de las especies que anidan en zonas dominadas por Tessaria estuvieron restringidas nicamente a una o dos de las siete etapas censadas. Las etapas medias de sucesin tuvieron los niveles ms altos de riqueza, abundancia y biomasa estimadas de frugvoros y nectarvoros; la alta abundancia de stos ltimos refleja la gran cantidad de reas dominadas por Helicorina que ocupan la mayor parte del sotobosque y las etapas medias de sucesin. A medida que las especies de rboles dominantes en las etapas medias de sucesin (e.j. Cedrela odorata) comenzaron a morir permaneciendo de pie, especies que forrajean en la corteza de los rboles alcanzaron su mayor abundancia en las etapas de sucesin tarda. Las etapas medias de sucesin se caracterizaron por la ausencia de muchos de los insectvoros caractersticos de bosques maduros estructuralmente ms complejos; entre las especies ausentes destacan especies de parvadas del sotobosque, especies que se alimentan de hormigas, especies que forrajean en el suelo, y muchas especies de insectvoros arboreos que forman parte de parvadas del dosel. En promedio las especies de las etapas mediana y temprana tendieron a ser ms abundantes que las del bosque maduro. Las comunidades mediana y tarda de aves tuvieron pocas especies en comn, y muchos congneres fueron segregados a lo largo de ste gradiente de sucesin; la mayora de las especies caractersticas de vegetacin temprana fueron sin embargo registradas en muchos otros tipos de perturbaciones naturales y antropognicas. En las playas de Tessaria de Manu no se registraron la mayora de las especies endmicas de la misma etapa de sucesin en rios mayores en el sistema Amaznico. Las etapas medias de sucesin presentaron relativamente menos especies restringidas a ellas, algunas de stas sin embargo, son raras y endmicas de la Amazonia del suroeste. Muchas especies caractersticas de llanuras aluviales alcanzaron sus mayores abundancias en las etapas 4-6; las etapas de sucesin media por consiguiente, probablemente cumplen un papel ms importante al que se haba reconocido previamente en su contribucin a la inusual riqueza de especies de la Amazonia del oeste. Estos resultados sugieren la importancia para conservar la diversidad de aves de la Amazonia, de preservar rios naturales que tengan meandros, y que no formen parte de presas; la tala y el desarrollo de agricultura afectan probablemente a las comunidades regionales de aves de una manera negativa. No todas las especies de aves de etapas tempranas y medias de sucesin se nan adaptado a la sucesin secundaria generada por el hombre, la recuperacin de la total diversidad y riqueza de especies de comunidades de aves tropicales despus de perturbaciones puede tomar varios cientos de aos, se debe tener cuidado sin embargo al extrapolar resultados de gradientes de sucesin primaria a secundaria.
10.2307/40168330|During the 20th century, the economy of Trinidad has changed from an agricultural to an industrial one, with accompanying urbanization. Drainage of swampland, human encroachment into both marshland and foothills, the development of cattle ranches and the neglect of traditional cocoa and citrus estates have brought about significant ecological change. Human population increase has led to both pollution and some over-exploitation of wild areas through tourism. In this century the Horned Screamer and the Blue-and-yellow Macaw have been extirpated from Trinidad, populations of six seed-eating species, mostly Oryzoborus and Sporophila spp., have been decimated by trappers, and the Scarlet Ibis, first encouraged to breed by the establishment of a sanctuary, has recently ceased to do so, possibly because of mismanagement of the sanctuary. Species showing range expansions include Cattle Egret, Southern Lapwing, Yellow-headed Caracara, White-tailed and Pearl Kites, Olivaceous Cormorant, Tropical Mockingbird, and Azure Gallinule. The wintering Dickcissel is present some years in enormous numbers, but entirely absent other years. /// Durante el siglo XX la economa de Trinidad ha cambiado de agrcola a industrial, acompaada por desarrollo urbano. El drenaje de tierras pantanosas, la invasin humana a las reas pantanosas y a las colinas, el desarrollo de ranchos ganaderos y el descudo de las plantaciones de cacao y ctricos, ha producido cambios ecolgicos significativos. El incremento de las poblaciones humanas ha producido cotaminacin, as como sobreexplotacin de reas silvestres para el desarrollo turstico. En este siglo el Anhima cornuta y el Ara ararauna han sido extirpados de Trinidad, poblaciones de seis comedores de semillas, mayormente Oryzoborus y Sporophila spp., han sido destrudas por los cazadores que usan trampas y en un principio se fomento la reproductin del Ibis (Eudocimus ruber) por medio del establecimiento de un sanctuario, pero recientemente ha dejado de reproducirse, probablemente debido al mal manejo del sanctuario. Las especies que muestran expansiones en sus rangos de distributin son la garcita bueyera (Bulbulcus ibis), Vanellus chilensis, Milvago chimachima, Elanus leucurus, Gampsonyx swainsonii, Phalacrocorax olivaceus, Mimus gilbus, y Porphyrula flavirostris. El invernante Spiza americana est presente durante algunos aos en grandes cantidades, pero otros aos est completamente ausente.
10.2307/40157558|The bird community of a small (22-ha) oxbow lake, Cocha Cashu, of the Manu River in the Amazon basin of southeastern Peru was studied during 11 field seasons, 1979-1989. Here, field observations on the population status, interactions with predators, and social systems are summarized for many of the 186 species that regularly occurred there. Oxbow lakes such as Cocha Cashu are characterized by narrow but very productive strips of marsh, shrubs, isolated trees, and vines along their borders. These habitats attract high populations of resident and nonterritorial birds, but also attract predators. In addition to species confined to the lake margins, Cocha Cashu attracted many forest birds to abundant flowering and fruiting trees (especially figs and Lauraceae) and isolated nest sites that provided some protection from mammalian predators. Birds respond to the constraints of limited habitat, high population density, and intense predation through various kinds of group living, including coloniality, cooperative breeding, and mono and multi-species flocking. The various kinds of sociality further influence the kinds of mating systems observed on the lake, with several species showing polygynous mating behavior. Anti-predator adaptations included mobbing of some but not all nest predators, and vigilance coupled with alarm calling against raptors that attack adult birds. Cacicus cela used different escape tactics when faced with different kinds of predators. Mobbing and group vigilance were effective at deterring most, but not all, avian predators.Interspecific aggression appeared to be most intense around cavity nests and some fruiting trees. Possible cooperative breeding was documented for two species in which this behavior has not previously been described (Ramphocelus carbo and R. nigrogularis). Relative to forest habitats, lake-margin birds showed a stronger tendency to form mono-specific than multi-species flocks, perhaps because variable resource availability and high population densities of some species precluded the formation of stable, multi-species flocks. Oxbow lakes strongly affect local patterns of species richness and abundance, but appear to have few specialists that do not occur in other aquatic, wetland, or second-growth habitats associated with riverine systems. The combination of rich foraging and nesting resources concentrated in a small area and high predation pressure influence life histories, population dynamics, and community structure of birds of this oxbow lake. /// Durante 11 estaciones de campo (1979-1989) se estudi a la comunidad de aves de un pequeo recodo de ro (22 ha) en Cocha Cashu en el ro Manu, Per. En ste estudio se resumen las observaciones sobre el estado de la poblacin, interacciones con depredadores, y sistemas sociales para las 168 especies que regularmente ocurren en la zona de estudio. Los recodos tales como Cocha Cashu se caracterizan por contener lineas muy angostas, pero muy productivas de pantanos, arbustos, rboles aislados y vainas a lo largo de sus bordes; stos tipos de hbitats atraen grandes poblaciones de aves residentes y no territoriales, sin embargo tambin atraen depredadores. Adems de las especies confinadas a los mrgenes del lago, Cocha Cashu atrajo muchas aves de bosque hacia los rboles florales y frutales que son muy abundantes (especialmente higos y Laureaceae), y hacia sitios aislados de anidacin que proveyeron de proteccin contra los mamiferos depredadores. La respuesta de las aves a las restricciones de la poca disponibilidad del hbitat, altas densidades de poblacin, y altos niveles de depredacin consiste en distintos tipos de vida en grupo los cuales incluyen colonialidad, anidacin cooperativa, y la formaci6n de parvadas mono y multiespecificas. Los distintos tipos de vida social influyen a su vez las distintas variantes en los sistemas reproductivos que se observan en el lego, existiendo asi distintas especies que muestran un comportamiento reproductivo de tipo polignico. Las adaptaciones contra los depredadores incluyeron el asalto de algunos, pero no todos los depredadores de nidos, y la vigilancia asociada con llamados de alarma contra las rapaces que atacan a las aves adultas; Cacius cela utiliz diferentes tcticas contra distintos depredadores. Los asaltos a depredadores, y la vigilancia en grupo fueron efectivos para auyentar a la mayora, pero no a todas las aves depredadoras. La agresin interespecfica aparent ser ms intensa al rededor de nidos en cavidades y algunos rboles frutales. La posibilidad de anidacin cooperativa se document para dos especies en las cuales no se haba descrito anteriormente (Ramphocelus carbo y R. nigrogularis). Las aves de los mrgenes de los lagos mostraton una mayor tendencia a formar parvadas mono-especficas, en comparacin a las parvadas multi-especficas de las aves de bosque; sto se debe probablemente a que la variable disponibilidad de recursos, y las altas densidades de poblacin de algunas especies imposibilitaron la formatin de parvadas multiespecficas estables. Los recodos de los ros afectan fuertemente los patrones de riqueza especfica y abundancia, stos recodos sin embargo, parecen contener pocos especialistas que no ocurren en otros hbitats acuticos y de humedales de crecimiento secundario asociados a sistemas riverinos. La combinacin de recursos ricos para el forrajeo y la anidacin concentrados en una rea pequea, asi como las altas presiones de depredacin influyen las historias de vida, las dinmicas de poblacin, y la estructura de la comunidad de aves en ste recodo del ro.
10.1525/om.2011.73.1.1|Animals often exhibit predictable geographic variation in morphology, and such ecogeographic patterns reflect local adaptation to varying environmental conditions. The most common of these patterns are termed Bergmann's, Allen's, and Gloger's rules. I studied morphological variation in the Hawaii Elepaio (
10.2307/40168279|The distribution of Andean wetland habitats in the Pleistocene and present is reviewed and considered in relation to the known distribution of waterbirds. Analysis based on suture zones, disjunctions, core areas for endemic taxa, and phylogenetic relationships suggests evolutionary processes closely tied to events in the Pleistocene. The distributions of species that prefer barren habitats suggest a center of origin in the glacial Lake Michn on the Bolivian Altiplano. Other glacial refugia that gave rise to new taxa were Lake Atacama in Chile, Lake Junn in Peru, and the large lakes that previously were present in the Bogot area, Colombia. Semi-open refugia along the Andean slopes had slight evolutionary significance. The inhabitants of Andean marsh habitats are generally poorly differentiated, morphologically, from lowland counterparts, and most probably they immigrated to the area in postglacial time. The colonization of the Andes was almost unidirectional, from the southern lowlands, which has resulted in a strong northward reduction of taxa adapted to barren habitats. The previous lakes of the Bogot area received propagules from other directions, including from North America, but the many marsh birds in this area have not shown adaptive shifts in response to vacant niches in barren habitats. /// Se revee la distribucin de los habitats pantanosos de los Andes tanto durante el pleistoceno como en la actualidad y se los considera en relacin con la distribucin conocidas de aves acuticas. Anlisis basados en zonas de sutura, disjuncin, reas centrales para grupos taxonmicos endmicos y relaciones filogenticas, sugieren procesos de evolucin cercanamente relacionados con sucesos del pleistoceno. La distribucin de especies que prefieren habitats estriles hace suponer que el lago glacial Michn, en el altiplano boliviano, ha sido el centro de origen (de las mismas). Otros refugios glaciales, como el lago de Atacama en Chile, la laguna de Junn en Per y los grandes lagos que se encontraban anteriormente en el rea de Bogot, Colombia, tambin brindaron origen a nuevos grupos taxonmicos. Refugios semidescubiertos en las laderas de los Andes tienen escaso significado a nivel de evolucin. Los habitantes de los habitats pantanosos andinos generalmente presentan pocas diferencias morfolgicas respecto a sus contrapartes en las tierras bajas, y probablemente han emigrado hacia el rea luego de la poca glacial. La colonizacin de los Andes fue casi unidireccional desde las tierras bajas del sur, lo cual ha determinado que hacia el norte se de una marcada disminucin de taxa adaptada a los ambientes estriles. Los lagos que existan anteriormente en el rea de Bogot haban sido colonizados desde otras direcciones, incluyendo Amrica del Norte, pero muchas de las aves acuticas de esta area no muestran cambios adaptativos con respecto a los nichos vacantes en los habitats estriles.
10.2307/40168276|Analysis of geographic variation based on 686 specimens showed that the Least Grebes (Tachybaptus dominicus) of North and Central America, the Greater Antilles, and the Atlantic drainage of South America merit separation as the subspecies brachypterus, dominicus, and brachyrhynchus, respectively. Two smaller isolates, T. d. bangsi of Baja California, and a new subspecies from the Pacific slope of Ecuador are also recognized. Samples from Jamaica and Hispaniola, Cuba, and Puerto Rico differ significantly from each other, but the differences are insufficient to merit recognition as subspecies. Least Grebes from the Atlantic drainage of North America between latitudes 9 and 25N averaged slightly larger than those from the Pacific drainage. No noticeable trends were noted within the range of the species in the Atlantic drainage of South America. /// Al analizar geogrficamente las variaciones que presentan 686 especmenes de zambullidor chico (Tachybaptus dominicus) de Amrica del Norte y Central, las Antillas Mayores y la cuenca atlntica de Sudamrica, se observa que merecen reconocerse subespecies de brachypterus, dominicus y brachyrhynchus, respectivamente. Tambin deben reconocerse como subespecies, dos poblaciones mas pequeas y aisladas: T. d. bangsi, de Baja California y una nueva subespecie en las vertientes del Pacfico de Ecuador. Los ejemplares de Jamaica, Espaola, Cuba y Puerto Rico, si bien se diferencan de manera significativa entre s, no presentan una diferenciacin suficiente como para que sean reconocidos como subespecies distintas. Los zambullidores chicos de la cuenca del Atlntico de Amrica del Norte, entre las latitudes 9 y 25N son estadsticamente ms grandes que aquellos de la cuenca del Pacfico. No se ha notado que exista una tendencia en la variacin dentro del intervalo de distribucin para la especie en la cuenca del Atlntico sudamericano.
10.1525/om.2010.68.1.1|Between December 1951 and April 1967, Thomas R. Howell made 13 separate research trips to Nicaragua. The result was a collection of over 2,000 bird skins and at least 16 publications that form the backbone of Nicaraguan ornithology. In the late 1970s, Howell began working on a manuscript that was intended to be his major contribution to the ornithology of the country. The first version of this "Check-list of the Birds of Nicaragua" was not ready until 1983, and many different typewritten versions circulated among a small but growing number of Nicaraguan biologists for the next two decades. Partly because of Howell's passion for detail and completeness, and finally because of his failing health in the late 1990s, the check-list was never published before his death in December 2004. This monograph remedies what had become a significant obstacle to further studies in the country by providing, in Howell's own words, a comprehensive background for subsequent explorations. It documents the 654 species (611 supported with specimen evidence) known to have occurred in Nicaragua as of 1993, the date of the last substantial revision of the manuscript, and also provides a rationale for anticipating another 44 species. The publication of this significant chapter in the history of Central American bird studies is offered both as a tribute to Tom Howell's enthusiasm and contributions and as a frame of reference and springboard for current and future ornithologists inspired to study the rich and still largely unexplored avifauna of Nicaragua.
10.2307/40157572|This paper reports the findings of several surveys of the avifauna of the region surrounding two remote fishing camps in the upper Ro Orinoco region of Amazonas, Venezuela. This area is of particular interest because it has been little-explored by ornithologists, and because of the predominance in the region of habitats derived from white-sand soils. We provide information on a number of range extensions, including one species (Pale-bellied Mourner, Rhytipterna immunda) for which there were no previous records for Venezuela. We also provide information on the vocalizations, foraging ecology, and habitat preferences for many rare or poorly known species, including Mitu tomentosa, Neomorphus rufipennis, Notharchus ordii, Myrmotherula cherriei, and Hylophilus brunneiceps. Our observations of Hylophilus brunneiceps also have taxonomic implications. The soil-based insularity of the local terra firme habitat as a factor limiting local bird distributions is also discussed. /// Este papel reporta los encuentros de varios reconocimientos de la avifauna de la region rodeando dos campamentos de pezca remotos en la parte superior del Ro Orinoco en la region de la Amazonas, Venezuela. Esta rea es de interes particular porque se ha explorado poco departe de ornitlogos y porque la predominancia de habitacones en la region se diriven de terrenos de arena-blanca. Proveemos informacon sobre varias extensones, incluyendo un especie (Rhytipterna immunda) por el cual no se encuentran archives anteriores en Venezuela. Tambien proveemos informacon sobre las vocalizacones, forraje ecologico, y habitacones preferidas departe de muchos especies raros  poco conocidos incluyendo Mitu tomentosa, Neomorphus rufipennis, Notharchus ordii, Myrmotherula cherrei, y Hylophilus brunneiceps. Nuestras observacones de Hylophilus brunneiceps tambien tiene implicacones taxonomicas. La insulacon de la base terrena cercano, habitacones terra firme, como punto que limita la distribucon de pajaros tipicos tambien se discute.
10.1525/om.2010.69.1.1|Differentiation and speciation without extended isolation appear to be common among migratory animals. Historical oversight of this is probably due to temporal distortion in distribution maps and a tendency to consider that lineages had different historical traits, such as being sedentary or much less mobile. Mobility among cyclic migrants makes population isolation difficult, and diminished levels of intraspecific differentiation occur in avian migrants (I term this "Montgomery's rule"). Nevertheless, many lineages have differentiated despite increased mobility and a high propensity for gene flow, conditions that speciation theory has not addressed adequately. Populations of seasonal migrants usually occur in allopatry and sympatry during a migratory cycle, and this distributional pattern (heteropatry) is the focus of a model empirically developed to explain differentiation in migratory lineages. Divergence arises through disruptive selection from resource competition and heterogeneously distributed cyclic resources. Heteropatric speciation is a type of ecological speciation in which reproductive isolation increases between populations as a byproduct of adaptation to different environments that enhances breeding allopatry and allochrony despite degrees of sympatry that occur during the nonbreeding period in migration cycles. Mating or pair bonding in nonbreeding areas is rare. Patterns such as leapfrog migration and limited morphological divergence suggest that differentiation is driven by these ecological factors rather than by sexual selection or nontemporal changes in the resource base itself, although the additional presence of either of the latter would have additive divergent effects. Migratory lineages provide a largely neglected series of natural experiments in speciation in which to test predictions stemming from this model and others focusing on ecological speciation.
10.2307/40157561|We surveyed birds in an arid valley at 1,500 m elevation in the Andes of western depto. Santa Cruz, Bolivia, in January and February, and in June and July. This is one of the only localities with xeric vegetation to be surveyed in an arid intermontane valley of the Eastern Andes. The 50 species breeding or presumed to be breeding in the arid scrub provides a striking example of high species richness at tropical latitudes. Differences between the surveys in January-February ("summer" wet season) and the one in June ("winter" dry season) show strong seasonality in the presence/ absence or abundance in 32 of the 92 regularly occurring species. Whereas at least 51 species were breeding or probably breeding during the January-February surveys, only five were breeding or probably breeding during the June-July survey. Subcutaneous fat levels were scored as "no fat" or "low" in 95% of all individuals collected. Most species occurring at this Andean locality have primarily lowland, rather than Andean, geographic distributions. /// Investigamos las aves en un valle rido a 1,500 m de altura en los Andes al oeste del Departamento de Santa Cruz, Bolivia, en Enero y Febrero, y en Junio y Julio. Esta es una de las nicas localidades con vegetacin xerofitica a ser investigadas en un valle rido intermontano en los Andes Orientales. Las 50 especies que se reproducen o que se presume que se reproducen en arbustos ridos nos d un notable ejemplo de una gran riqueza de especies en latitudes tropicales. Las differencies entre las investigaciones en Enero-Febrero ("verano" estacin hmeda) y la de Junio ("invierno" estacin seca) muestran una fuerte estacionalidad en la presencia/ausencia o abundancia en 32 de las 92 especies que regularmente estn presentes. Considerando que por lo menos 51 especies se estaban reproduciendo o probablemente reproduciendo durante la investigacin de Enero-Febrero, solamente seis se estaban reproduciendo o probablemente reproduciendo durante la investigacin de Junio-Julio. Los niveles de grasa subcutnea fueron calificados como "sin grasa" o "bajo" en 95% de todos los individuos colectados. La mayoria de las especies que ocurren en esta localidad andina tienen primordialmente distribucin geogrfica de tierres bajas, en vez de andina.
10.2307/40166826|We examined changes in group sizes of House Finches (Carpodacus mexicanus; hereafter "finches"), at feeders over the course of establishment of a novel disease caused by the bacterium Mycoplasma gallisepticum. Our goal was to identify factors linked with the severity of decline in sizes of finch groups, with the aim of inferring causes of variation in rates of disease transmission and disease-induced mortality. We found that only site-specific density-dependence consistently predicted the sizes of declines in finch group sizes. By contrast, there were no differences in declines among habitats known to differ in finch abundance, or among regions with different overall abundances of finches. We also failed to find differences in declines along a gradient of winter temperature. Our results suggest that the effects of disease on host populations in this system are primarily determined by interactions among finches at individual sites, with little consistent influence of factors extrinsic to these local groups. Received 6 April 2005, accepted 29 November 2005. /// Examinamos los cambios en el tamao de grupos de Carpodacus mexicanus en los alimentaderos durante el establecimiento de una enfermedad nueva causada por la bacteria Mycoplasma gallisepticum. Nuestra meta fue el identificar los factores asociados con la severa reduccin en el tamao de los grupos de C. mexicanus, con el objetivo de inferir causas en la tasa de transmisin de la enfermedad y de mortalidad debido a la enfermedad. Encontramos que solamente factores denso-dependientes y especficos a un sitio, predijeron constantemente las dimensiones de las reducciones en el tamao de los grupos de C. mexicanus. En contraste, no hubo diferencias en las reducciones entre los habitats que se sabia que se diferenciaban en cuanto a abundancia de C. mexicanus, o entre regiones con diferentes abundancias de C. mexicanus. No pudimos encontrar diferencias en las reducciones a lo largo de un gradiente de temperaturas invernales. Nuestros resultados sugieren que los efectos de la enfermedad en la poblacin hospedera en este sistema estn principalmente determinados por interacciones entre C. mexicanus en sitios nicos, con poca influencia de factores extrnsecos a esos grupos locales.
10.2307/40157564|Over 50 species of Neotropical birds have been recorded foraging for animal prey in bromeliads. Of these bird species, Pseudocolaptes lawrencii is one of the most specialized. At a montane rainforest site in Costa Rica, 74% of its documented foraging efforts were in epiphytic bromeliads. P. lawrencii selected large bromeliads and foraged for arthropods within leaf litter and organic debris trapped in the plants. Based on our analyses of the bromeliad prey base and bird stomach contents, P. lawrencii was an opportunistic predator of the litter-inhabiting arthropods. Birds consumed dermapterans, orthopterans, arachnids, and coleopterans in proportions equal to the prey's availability and did not select for prey size. However, P. lawrencii avoided isopods. P. lawrencii did not consume aquatic insect larvae, which were the largest component of the bromeliad prey base and occurred in 80% of bromeliads sampled. /// Mas de 50 especies de aves Neotropicales han sido estudiadas mientras forrajean por animates en bromelias. De estas especies de aves, Pseudocolaptes lawrencii es una de las mas especializadas. En un bosque tropical montaoso en Costa Rica, se encontr que el 74% de los atentos de forrajeo fueron en bromelias epifiticas. Pseudocolaptes lawrencii selecciono bromelias grandes y forrajeo en las hojas y los escombros orgnicos atrapados en las bromelias. Basado en nuestro anlisis de los animales encontrados en las bromelias y el contenido estomacal de las aves, concluimos que P. lawrencii es un predador oportunistico de los artrpodos que viven en los escombros orgnicos. Las aves consumieron dermapteros, orthopteros, aracnidos y coleopteros en proporciones idnticas a la disponibilidad de estas presas. No se encontr seleccin de presas, sin embargo, P. lawrencii evito isopodos. No consumi larvas de insectos acuticos, la presa mas abundante y se encontr en un 80% de las bromelias estudiadas.
10.2307/40166814|Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater, hereafter "cowbirds") provide one of the best case studies for demonstrating the need to consider multiple spatial scales in managing a species and designing conservation strategies. An adaptive management program to reduce cowbird parasitism levels through reduction of cowbird abundance should mirror the multiple spatial scales to which cowbirds respond. At the continental scale (>50 km), cowbirds are widespread across most of North America, and their abundance declines with distance from the center of their distribution in the Great Plains and Midwest. Generally, cowbird parasitism frequency is highest in, and declines with distance from, the Midwest; however, abundance at that broad scale is by no means indicative of parasitism frequency at the local level, because regional, landscape, and local factors play a significant role in cowbird abundance, distribution, and parasitism levels. At the regional scale (10-50 km), cowbird abundance and cowbird:host ratio decline with increasing forest cover, resulting in lower parasitism levels in the Midwest, where most of the relevant research has been conducted. Studies from forested regions of the East and Far West and from nonforested systems are under-represented; nevertheless, it is clear that increasing the spatial extent of contiguous habitat for host species is a key priority in cowbird management. Within the landscape scale (<10 km), density and dispersion of feeding sites strongly influence cowbird distribution and abundance. Cowbirds are known to commute >10 km between feeding and breeding habitats; removal of feeding opportunities for cowbirds near targeted management areas is a key control measure. Removal of livestock-centered feeding sites has traditionally been a management focus. However, cowbirds use agricultural fields, residential backyards, and recreational areas, too, and those feeding opportunities need to be considered in land-use planning and zoning. Locally, cowbird breeding abundance and distribution are strongly influenced by habitat type, vegetation structure, and passerine species richness; however, variation in regional or local cowbird abundance may affect local cowbird distribution. Local management should strive to protect habitat for large host populations while reducing habitat edges and, in grasslands, known cowbird perching sites. Comparative studies of cowbird breeding-site use are needed in most regions, and future comparisons would benefit if field researchers used a consistent, standardized protocol for vegetation measurement. /// Molothrus ater provee de uno de los mejores estudios de caso que demuestran la necesidad de tener en cuenta distintas escalas para el manejo de la especie y el diseo de estrategias de conservatin. Un programa de manejo adaptativo que busque reducir los niveles de parasitismo del M. arter por medio de la reductin de su abundancia debera reflejar las distintas escalas espaciales a las cuales los M. ater responden. A una escala continental (>50 km), los M. ater estn extendidos a lo largo de prcticamente toda Norteamrica, y su abundancia disminuye con la distancia del centro de su distribucin (Grandes Planicies y Medio Oeste). Generalmente, la frecuencia de parasitismo por M. ater es mayor en el Medio Oeste, y disminuye con la distancia al mismo. Sin embargo, su abundancia a una escala mayor de ninguna manera es indicativa de las tasas de parasitismo a nivel local, porque los factores a nivel regional, paisaje, y locales juegan un rol significativo sobre la abundancia y distribucin de los M. ater, y los niveles de parasitismo. A una escala regional (10-50 km), la abundancia de M. ater y la relacin M. ater: hospedero disminuye con el incremento de la cobertura por bosques, implicando un menor nivel de parasitismo en el Medio Oeste, lugar donde se llevaron a cabo la mayora de los estudios relevantes. Estudios realizados en reas boscosas del Este y Lejano Oeste, y de sistemas no boscosos estn sub-representados. Sin embargo, es obvio que en estos sistemas un incremento en la extensin del hbitat continuo apto para las especies hospederas es una prioridad clave en el manejo de M. ater. Dentro de la escala a nivel paisaje (<10 km), la densidad y dispersin a sitios de alimentacin influye marcadamente sobre la distribucin de M. ater y su abundancia. Se sabe que los M. ater pueden moverse a >10 km entre hbitats de alimentacin y reproductin en cosecuencia, la remocin de oportunidades de alimentacin cercanas a zonas-objetivo de manejo, es una medida clave para su control. Sin embargo, los M. ater tambin usan campos agrcolas, parques residenciales, y reas recreativas, por lo que aquellas oportunidades de alimentacin deberan ser consideradas dentro de las planificaciones de uso y zonificacin. Localmente, la abundancia de los M. ater reproducindose y su distribucin est altamente influenciada por el tipo de hbitat, la estructura de la vegetacin, y la riqueza de Paseriformes. Sin embargo, la variatin regional o local de la abundancia de M. ater puede afectar su propia distribucin. Las personas a cargo del manejo local deberan procurar proteccin de hbitats que mantuvieran grandes poblaciones de hospederos, junto con la reduccin de sus bordes y, en los pastizales, la reduccin de sitios usados por M. ater como percha. En la mayora de las regiones es necesario llevar a cabo estudios comparados sobre el uso de sitios reproductivos por parte del tordo, y las futuras comparaciones se beneficiaran si los estudios de campo se basaran en el uso de protocolos consistentes y estandarizados de las medidas vegetacin.
10.1525/om.2010.67.1.162|We examined genetic and morphological characteristics of the Song Sparrows (
10.1525/om.2010.67.1.90|The Slate-throated Redstart (
10.2307/40157544|Analyses of several characters indicate that two bamboo specialist foliage-gleaners in the Furnariidae--Anabazenops fuscus (White-collared Foliage-gleaner) of southeastern Brazil and Automolus dorsalis (Dusky-cheeked Foliage-gleaner) of western Amazonia--are sister species. The nest site of Automolus dorsalis, above-ground in cavities, indicates that this species does not belong with other species in the genus. Similarities in foraging behavior and vocalizations, as well as similarities in plumage, provide evidence for a close relationship between dorsalis and Anabazenops. Although some morphological similarities are evident, analyses of eight mensural characters were equivocal with regard to a close relationship between these two species. We recommend that A. dorsalis be moved to the genus Anabazenops. Relationships of these two species with other taxa in the subfamily Philydorinae are investigated. /// Anlisis de varios caracteres indican que dos especies de la familia Furnariidae--Anabazenops fuscus (White-collared Foliage-gleaner) del sureste de Brasil y Automolus dorsalis (Dusky-cheeked Foliage-gleaner) del oeste de la Amazona--son especies hermanas. Las dos especies son especialistas de bamb. La ubicacin del nido de Automolus dorsalis en huecos naturales del bamb indica que la especie no pertenece al gnero Automolus. Los nidos de las otras especies de Automolus se ubican en huecos entre las barrancas. Semejanzas entire comportamiento de forrajeo y vocalizaciones, as como semejanzas entre el plumaje, proveen evidencias de una relacin entre dorsalis y el gnero Anabazenops. Aunque algunas semejanzas morfolgicas sean evidentes, anlisis de ocho medidas son ambiguas con respecto a una relacin entre las dos especies. Recomendamos que A. dorsalis sea cambiado al gnero Anabazenops. Relaciones con otros grupos taxonmicos de la subfamilia Philydorinae son investigadas.
om.2010.67.1.103|Subspecies have been viewed as important biological entities that provide evidence of adaptation and early stages of speciation and that stimulate biological research on behavior, ecology, and other non-systematic questions. However, the history of subspecies and the lack of congruence with molecular data have led to questions about whether they help or hinder studies in avian biology and conservation. The Sage Sparrow (
10.1525/om.2012.74.1.47|Human-altered landscapes often include structural features, such as higher levels of impervious surface cover (ISC) and less vegetation, that are likely to affect the transmission of avian vocalizations. We investigated the relationships between human habitat modifications and signal transmission by measuring four acoustic parameterspersistence, reverberation, and signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of broadcast tones, as well as absolute ambient noise levelin each of 39 avian breeding territories across an anthropogenic disturbance gradient. Using a geographic information system, we quantified the amounts of different habitat features (e.g., ISC, grass, trees) at each site; a principal component analysis was used to identify which of these habitat features commonly co-occurred (e.g., habitat suites ). Finally, we used a model selection process to explore whether the habitat suites predicted the acoustic parameters. Tone persistence was higher and reverberation was lower in more open, grassy habitats than in areas with more vertical anthropogenic structures. In more human-modified sites, ambient noise levels were higher, leading to lower SNR. In habitats with low levels of human modification, we found that even small increases in the total amount of opengrassy area will quickly improve the acoustic space of singing birds. However, our results also indicated that there may be a critical level of human habitat modification above which the addition of natural areas does not benefit avian communication. Thus, we recommend that managers focus their efforts on preserving pre-existing natural habitat, rather than attempting to introduce it into areas that have already received significant human modification.
10.2307/40168334|The papers in this monograph are reviewed in the context of the progressive stages of ornithological knowledge and of current neotropical ornithological research in general. Active fields of study not represented in these pages are listed, to reflect more completely the breadth of research on birds of the neotropics in the 1980's. /// En esta monografia se repasan los artculos en los contextos de las etapas progresivas del conocimiento ornitolgico y de las investigaciones de ornitologa neotropical, en general. Se mencionan los campos de investigacin activos que no estn representados en estas pginas para reflejar de la manera ms completa posible la amplitud de las investigaciones en aves neotropicales en la dcade de 1980.
10.2307/40168327|Nest, eggs, and downy young of the recently described White-headed Flightless Steamer-Duck (Tachyeres leucocephalus) are described and compared with those of other species of steamer-duck. Nests of T. leucocephalus, like those of other steamer-ducks, are shallow bowls lined heavily with down, and typically located in dense woody shrubs on peninsulas and off-shore islands. Egg size of T. leucocephalus is most similar to that of T. brachypterus, but eggs of all species of Tachyeres overlap substantially in their dimensions. Downy young of T. leucocephalus differ from those of congeners in eyelid and back color, and facial pattern. These characters are used to construct a key to the downy young of the four species of Tachyeres. /// Los nidos, huevos, y pichones de Tachyeres leucocephalus estan descritos y comparados con los de las otras especies del gnero. Los nidos de T. leucocephalus semejan cuencos pocos profundos forrados con plumn y estan situados tipicamente abajo de arbustos ubicados en islotes y peninsulas. Los huevos de T. leucocephalus tienen un tamao mas semejante a los de T. brachypterus pero las dimensiones de los huevos de todas las especies de Tachyeres se superponen. Los pichones de T. leucocephalus se distinguen de otros del mismo gnero en el color de los prpados y la espalda, y el dibujo de la distribucin de las manchas de la cabeza. Se presenta una clave para la identificacin de los pichones de patos vapores.
10.2307/40168297|Recent classifications of the Ochthoeca diadema species-group recognize three species, diadema, frontalis, and pulchella, with the taxon jelskii considered a subspecies of pulchella. The present study shows that the species-group is composed of two superspecies, diadema, which includes pulchella, and frontalis, which includes jelskii. Frontalis is sympatric with diadema or pulchella throughout its range from central Colombia to central Bolivia. Jelskii is parapatric with the three other species. /// Recientes clasificaciones del grupo-especie ("species-group") Ochthoeca diadema reconocen tres especies, diadema, frontalis y pulchella, con el taxn jelskii considerado como subespecie de pulchella. El presente estudio muestra que el grupo-especie est compuesto por 2 superespecies, diadema que incluye a pulchella y frontalis que incluye a jelskii. Frontalis se encuentra junto con ("sympatric") diadema o pulchella en todo su rango de distribucin desde el centro de Colombia hasta el centro de Bolivia. Jelskii se encuentra en distintas reas ("parapatric") que las otras tres especies.
10.2307/40166811|Cowbird (Molothrus spp.) control is a major focus of recovery-oriented management of two endangered riparian bird species,the Least Bell's Vireo (Vireo bellii pusillus) and Southwestern Willow Flycatcher (Empidonax traillii extimus). During the past 20 years, annual trapping of cowbirds at Least Bell's Vireo and Southwestern Willow Flycatcher breeding sites has eliminated or reduced parasitism in comparison with pretrapping rates and, thereby, significantly increased seasonal productivity of nesting pairs. Enhanced productivity, in turn, has resulted in an 8-fold increase in numbers of Least Bell's Vireos; Southwestern Willow Flycatcher abundance, however, has changed little, and at some sites has declined despite cowbird control. Although generally successful by these short-term measures of host population response, cowbird control poses potential negative consequences for long-term recovery of endangered species. As currently employed, cowbird control lacks predetermined biological criteria to trigger an end to the control, making these species' dependence on human intervention open-ended. Prolonged reliance on cowbird control to manage endangered species can shift attention from identifying and managing other factors that limit populations--in particular, habitat availability. On the basis of our analysis of these long-term programs, we suggest that cowbird control be reserved for short-term crisis management and be replaced, when appropriate, by practices emphasizing restoration and maintenance of natural processes on which species depend. /// El manejo orientado hacia la recuperacin de dos especies de aves ribereas Vireo belli pusillus y Empidonax trailli extimus se ha focalizado principalmente en el control de los Molothrus spp parsitos. Durante los pasados 20 aos, la captura anual de los Molothrus en las reas de nidificacin de Vireo belli pusillus y Empidonax trailli extimus ha eliminado o reducido el parasitismo en comparacin con las tasas previas a la captura y, en consecuencia, ha incrementado significativamente la productividad estacional de las parejas reproductivas. Ese mejora en productividad, a su vez, ha resultado en que el nmero de Vireo belli pusillus se incrementara 8 veces. La abundancia de Empidonax trailli extimus en cambio, ha variado poco, e incluso en algunos sitios, se ha reducido a pesar del control de los Molothrus. Aunque aparentemente el control de Molothrus fue exitoso por los resultados obtenidos a corto plazo, el control de los Molothrus posee consecuencias potencialmente negativas para la recuperacin a largo plazo de las especies en peligro. De la forma en que es actualmente aplicado, el control de los Molothrus carece de criterios biolgicos predeterminados que permitan dejar de aplicarlo. Esto implica que las especies que se quiera proteger dependan eternamente de la intervencin humana. El hecho de que que el manejo de las especies en peligro se base en la dependencia prolongada en el control de los Molothrus podra distraer la atencin sobre la identificacin y el manejo de otros factores que limitan dichas poblaciones-en particular, la disponibilidad de hbitat. Basndonos en nuestro anlisis de estos programas a largo plazo, sugerimos que el control de Molothrus quede reservado para las crisis de manejo de corto plazo. Cuando fuera apropiado, es de esperar que dicho manejo sea reemplazado por prcticas enfatizadas hacia la restauracin y el mantenimiento de los procesos naturales de los cuales esas especies en realidad dependen.
10.2307/40168328|Nesting data were collected over two seasons at two study sites approximately 20 km apart in Buenos Aires Province, Argentina. Community composition differed between sites. The data include brief descriptions of nests, eggs, and nestlings. The duration of incubation and nestling periods are also presented. Maximum likelihood estimators of nest survivorship are calculated separately for nests with eggs and nests with nestlings. Nestlings of eight species were parasitized with botfly larvae (probably Philornis sp.). Broadly speaking, species that nest in complex or closed nests have higher survivorship than species which build cup nests. However, a comparison of mortality of the Rufous Hornero and the Saffron Finch using nests of the former indicates that the behavior of the species contributes greatly to survivorship. Saffron Finches nesting in hornero nests show poorer survivorship than the horneros themselves. Nonetheless, Saffron Finches using these nest sites have superior survivorship to those which use other nests. The demographic data also permit the rejection of the hypothesis of prevention of total nest failure as the selective agent favoring asynchronous hatching in the Rufous Hornero. /// Se coleccion informacin de anidacin durante dos temporadas en dos sitios distantes 20 km entre s, en la provincia de Buenos Aires, Argentina. La composicin de la comunidad difiere entre ambos sitios. Los datos incluyen breves descripciones de nido, huevos y polluelos. Tambin se presenta informacin respecto a la duracin de la incubacin y el perodo de anidacin. Se calculan separadamente las estimaciones mximas de sobrevivencia, para nidos con huevos y nidos con polluelos. Polluelos de ocho especies estaban parasitados por larvas de la mosca (probablemente Philornos sp.). Generalmente, las especies que anidan en nidos complejos o cerrados tienen mayor tasa de sobrevivencia que las especies cuyos nidos tienen forma de copa. Sin embargo una comparacin de la mortalidad del hornero Rufous y el Pinzn Saffron usando nidos de hornero indican que la sobrevivencia est relacionada con el comportamiento de la especie. Pinzones Saffron que anidan en nidos de horneros, tienen menor sobrevivencia que los mismos horneros. A pesar de lo cual, los pinzones que usan nidos de hornero tienen mayor sobrevivencia que los pinzones que usan otros nidos. La informacin demogrfica tambin permite rechazar la hiptesis de prevencin de fracaso total de anidacin como un agente selectivo favoreciendo la incubacin as-incrnica del hornero Rufous.
10.2307/40166721|The discovery that socially monogamous birds copulate outside the pair-bond compels us to view mating and parental care relationships separately. The operation of sexual selection via extra-pair copulation suggests that the mating behaviors of monogamous species are more similar to those of promiscuous species than previously thought. Males in many promiscuous species aggregate in display arenas called leks, which form in response to females seeking copulation. This chapter reviews and synthesizes evidence that the mating systems of monogamous birds that pursue extra-pair copulations resemble those of promiscuous species. Razorbills (Alca torda) demonstrate that males in a monogamous species form leks for extra-pair copulation. Results from studies of Purple Martins (Progne subis) indicate that lek mechanisms may contribute to colony formation. These studies, combined with other evidence, suggest that the lek models can operate in many more contexts than those in which they were originally proposed. The "hidden lek" hypothesis predicts that the same mechanisms that form leks in promiscuous species can also explain certain aggregations of territories of monogamous species.
10.2307/40157551|A number of bird species in southwestern Amazonia are associated with stands of bamboo. We studied the birds in bamboo in two regions, eastern Rondnia near the Rio Jiparan where a single small patch was located, and near Alta Floresta, in northern Mato Grosso, where several extensive bamboo stands were explored. We found a moderately large bamboo avifauna at each site, with eight species in Rondnia and ten at Alta Floresta. In species accounts, we discuss the significance of these records and provide notes on the ecology and behavior of these bamboo species. For most of these species, these records represented significant range extensions. Four species were recorded in Brazil for the first time. We also located a population of Poecilotriccus tricolor, previously known from a unique type, in Rondnia. We determined that it should be treated as a weakly differentiated subspecies of Poecilotriccus capitalis. /// Vrias espcies de aves no sudoeste da Amaznia associam-se com bambuzais. Investigamos as aves de bamb em duas regies: na regio leste de Rondnia, perto ao rio Jiparan onde encontramos um pequeno bambuzal, e perto de Alta Floresta, no norte de Mato Grosso, onde emploramos vrios bambuzias. Encontramos uma avifauna bastante diversa associada com bambs, composta de oito espcies em Rondnia, e de dez em Atla Floresta. No relato de espcies, discutimos a importncia destes registros, e fornecemos imformaes sobre a ecologia e o comportamento destas espcies. Para a maioria destas espcies, estes registros representam um aumento significante na rea de distribuio. Quatro espcies foram registradas no Brasil pela primeira vez. Tambm, localizamos uma populao de Poecilotriccus tricolor, antes conhecido smente do holotipo, em Rondnia. Determinamos que esta forma  uma subespcie pouco differenciada de Poecilotriccus capitalis.
10.2307/40168331|Although Cuba has strict hunting regulations and protective laws, as well as an excellent system of preserves, some species and races of Cuban birds are endangered. Here, I discuss the current status of these and bring the Red Data Book up-to-date for Cuban birds. Most of the endangered races are those inhabiting keys off the coast of Cuba. Endemic Cuban species are, as a whole doing well and benefitting from newly established preserves. Two endemics, the Cuban Kite and the Zapata Wren are very rare and, perhaps, nearly extinct. The wren may recover now that its Zapata Swamp habitat is protected. Gundlach's Hawk is more common than reported by earlier workers. The Bachman's Warbler, although recently sighted, is essentially extinct as a non-breeding bird on Cuba. /// A pesar de que Cuba posee regulaciones estrictas para la caza y leyes de proteccin, as como un excelente sistema de reservas, algunas especies y razas de aves cubanas estn en peligro de extincin. En el presente trabajo discuto la situacin actual de estas aves y actualizo el Libro Rojo de Datos ("Red Data Book") para las aves cubanas. La mayora de las razas que estn en peligro de extincin son aquellas que habitan en los cayos fuera de la costa de Cuba. Las especies endmicas cubanas, en general, se encuentran bien, y aprovechando del nuevo sistema de reservas establecido. Dos especies endmicas, el Gaviln Caguarero y la Fermina son muy raros y posiblemente cercanos a su extincin. La poblacin de la Fermina podra recuperarse ahora que la cinaga de Zapata est protegida. El Gaviln Coliargo es ms comn ahora que lo que haban manifestado otros autores anteriormente. La Bijirita de Bachman, aunque ha sido vista recientemene, se le puede considerar virtualmente extinguida, aunque no cra en Cuba.
10.2307/40168282|This paper reports on the distribution, behavior and ecology of 43 species from the Huancabamba region in the Andes of northern Peru. Included are 23 species new to Peru, and five recorded in that country for the second time. The rediscoveries of Grallaricula peruviana, Myiophobus lintoni, and Incaspiza ortizi are reported. The natural history of additional rare species, including Gallinago imperialis, Nyctibius leucopterus, Hapaloptila castanea, Myornis senilis, Notiochelidon flavipes, and Buthraupis wetmorei, is also discussed. Lists of species recorded along two elevational gradients (west slope of western cordillera and east slope of eastern cordillera) are presented, with an indication of elevational distribution, relative abundance, and social system. Twenty-six species are found to be at the southern limits of their distribution; most of these are replaced by closely related congeners south of the Ro Maran. The Ro Maran valley represents one of the most important barriers to montane forest birds along the eastern slope of the Andes. Its efficacy as a barrier is enhanced by the relative aridity of the western slope of the Andes, which increases as one moves south in Peru. /// En este trabajo se presenta informacin sobre la distribucin, el comportamiento y la ecologa de 43 especies de la regin de Huancabamba en los Andes del norte peruano. Se incluyeron 23 especies nuevas para el Per y cinco registradas por segunda vez en ese pas. Se informa sobre el redescubrimiento de Grallaricula peruviana, Myiophobus lintoni y Incaspiza ortizi. Tambin se discuten aspectos de la historia natural de especies raras, incluyendo Gallinago imperialis, Nyctibius leucopterus, Hapaloptila castanea, Myornis senilis, Notiochelidon flavipes y Butharaupis wetmorei. Se presentan listas de especies localizadas a lo largo de 2 gradientes elevacionales (la vertiente oeste de la cordillera occidental y la vertiente este de la corillera oriental) con indicaciones de distribucin altitudinal, abundancia relativa y sistema social. Se encontr que 26 especies estn en el lmite sur de sus rangos de distribucin, la mayora de las cuales estn reemplazadas al sur del Ro Maran por sus congneres mas cercanamente relacionadas. El valle del Ro Maran representa una de las barreras ms importantes para aves de ceja de selva a lo largo de las vertientes orientales de los Andes. Su eficacia como barrera se ve realzada por la relativa aridez de las vertientes occidentals de los Andes, las cuales se tornan an ms ridas a medida que uno se dirige al sur del Per.
10.1525/om.2012.74.1.101|Increases in anthropogenic noise (hereafter noise) exposure may negatively affect reproductive success for breeding birds because noise may mask sounds of approaching predators. However, we recently found that increases in noise amplitude positively influenced nest survival through a decrease in nest predation. On the basis of this result, we hypothesized that noise may result in (1) a numerical decrease in predators in noisy areas or (2) a functional predator response, in which predators are present but noise interferes with their ability to locate nests. We separated the effects of nest predation risk due to a numerical decrease in predators and risk associated with activity at the nest using artificial-nest experiments on control and noisy treatment sites and within a broad range of noise exposure. Our results concurred with results from natural nests regarding patterns of predation, which suggests that common predators may be less abundant in areas with increased noise exposure. Additionally, cameras paired with artificial nests photographed Western Scrub-Jays (
10.2307/40587709|Ernst Mayr's empirical research at the American Museum of Natural History between 1931 and 1953 was focused largely on species-and genus-level systematics in the rich but then little-known bird fauna of the Southwest Pacific. Here, through four case studies, I trace the enormous advances he made in systematics knowledge, practice, and theory, culminating in his development of the Biological Species Concept, with its supporting treatise, Systematics and the Origin of Species (Mayr 1942). La investigacin emprica de Ernst Mayr en el Museo Americano de Historia Natural entre 1931 y 1953 se enfoc principalmente en la sistemtica a nivel de especies y gneros de la avifauna rica pero entonces poco conocida del sudoeste del Pacfico. En este ensayo, a travs de cuatro estudios de caso, recapitulo los enormes avances que l hizo sobre el conocimiento, la prctica y la teora de la sistemtica, culminando en su desarrollo del concepto biolgico de especie, con el tratado que lo avala, Sistemtica y el Origen de las Especies ("Systematics and the Origin of Species", Mayr 1942).
10.2307/40168304|Frequent reports of prey depletion by shorebird populations at temperate latitudes suggest that competition for food may be an active agent of natural selection on timing of migration. Yet rates of change in prey populations in coastal habitats used by migratory shorebirds in the tropics have not been considered. Therefore, I measured invertebrate densities in four intertidal feeding areas on the Pacific coast of Panama. Marked sites in each area were sampled in mid- January, late February or early March, and late April of 1978. Sites in one area, La Boca, were sampled again in mid- January and late February, 1979. Prey sizes were determined from fecal castings collected in the four areas and from a published analysis of the stomach contents of plovers collected in one of the study areas. During the 7-week period prior to the departure of wintering birds in April, the density of all invertebrate macrofauna decreased by 12%. The density of prey taxa increased by 10% during this same period. Prey patchiness, within study areas, decreased significantly during this 7-week period. The standing stock of polychaetes, within the size range taken by shorebirds, increased from 14.1 cm/m in early March to 26.8 cm/m in late April. The increase in standing stock was accompanied by a decrease in the density of large individuals and a decrease in the average length of worms. Changes in the density and patchiness of prey taxa were not consistent from year to year. The observed lack of consistency points toward disruptive rather than synchronizing selection on timing of migration in the neotropics. /// Noticias frecuentes sobre el agotamiento de presas producidos por poblaciones de aves costeras en latitudes templadas, sugieren que la competencia por comida puede ser un agente activo de seleccin natural del tiempo de migracin. Sin embargo hasta ahora no se han considerado los cambios occurridos en las poblaciones de presas de los habitats costeros utilizados por aves migratorias costeras en lois trpicos. Por ello med la densidad de invertebrados en cuatro reas litorales de alimentatin en la costa del Pacfico en Panam. Se tomaron muestras en cada sitio marcado a mediados de enero, fines de febrero o principios de marzo y fines de abril de 1978. En el rea La Boca se tomaron muestras de los sitios marcados a mediados de enero y fines de febrero de 1979. El tamao de las presas fue determinado por el contenido de las feces juntado en las cuatro reas y por datos publicados sobre anlisis de contenidos estomacales de chorlitos, coleccionados en una de las reas de estudio. Durante el perodo de siete semanas previo a la partida en abril de las ves in vernantes, la densidad de toda la macrofauna de invertebrados disminuy un 12%. La densidad de la taxa de las presas incremento un 10% durante ese mismo perodo. Concentraciones dispersas de presas ("prey patchiness") en el rea de estudio, disminuyeron de manera significativa durante este periodo de siete semanas. La cantidad de lombrices, dentro del rango de tamaos comidos por los chorlitos, se incremento de 14, 1cm/m a comienzos de marzo hasta 26,8 cm/m a fines de abril. Este incremento en la cantidad de poliquetos (lombrices) fue acompaado por una disminucin en la densidad de individuos grandes y una disminucin en el tamao promedio de las lombrices. Los cambios en la densidad y distributin de concetracin ("patchiness") de la taxa presa no fueron consistentes de un ao a otro. La ausencia de consistencia observada indica una seleccin disruptiva en lugar de sincronizante en el tiempo de migracin en los trpicos del Nuevo Mundo.
10.2307/40157560|One reason suggested for the high avian species diversity in tropical forests is increased specialization on resources that are absent in temperate habitats. This study investigates in detail one such specialization, namely foraging for arthropods in suspended aerial leaf-litter in lowland tropical rainforest. Up to 16 species at two southwestern Amazonian sites constitute a guild of specialized dead-leaf foragers that make up roughly 11% of the region's insectivorous bird species. Most dead-leaf specialists are ovenbirds (Furnariidae) or antbirds (Formicariidae) that are characteristic members of mixed-species foraging flocks in the understory or canopy. These specialists, compared with other insectivores, tended to use more acrobatic postures and manipulated foraging substrates with the bill or feet. These species segregated to some extent by habitat, including several congeneric replacements. The guild reaches its highest diversity in a belt across southwestern Amazonia and along the base of the Andes, where bamboo and other disturbance-related microhabitats add to forest heterogeneity. Individual dead leaves, as resources for birds, were abundant in all forest types and supported higher prey densities (number per leaf) than adjacent live foliage. Prey density was highest in larger leaves, especially in large, crumpled Cecropia leaves. The arthropod fauna of aerial leaf-litter was similar among seasons, habitats, and sites, being dominated by spiders, roaches, other orthopterans, and small beetles. This contrasts greatly with arthropods available on live foliage. Guild members differed significantly from each other in either foraging height, size or type of leaves searched, diet composition, or prey size, although overlaps between species pairs were usually high (0.900). Although twice as many species were supported in low-lying forest than in upland forest, ecological overlaps among species in each habitat were usually similar. Behavioral similarity among species was not related to dietary overlap. Size of prey taken, however, was correlated with bill size, except that the largest species, Xiphorhynchus guttatus, ate surprisingly small prey. Diet composition of all species differed significantly from prey availability in dead leaves, with orthopterans selected by all species and small roaches and spiders often avoided. Censuses of 92 mixed-species flocks revealed no negative and only two positive associations between species, suggesting that birds join flocks independent of other species present. Co-occurring Myrmotherula leucophthalma and M. ornata in the same flocks were not aggressive and converged in foraging height and substrate use. In contrast, co-occurring Automolus foliage-gleaners tended to diverge in foraging height and exhibited overt aggression. Niche segregation among dead-leaf foragers therefore represents a balance between benefits and constraints imposed by feeding in a mixedspecies flock; that is, increased vigilence and group defense of territories versus feeding close to potential competitors. Dead-leaf specialization evolved independently in several bird families but shows strong phylogenetic constraints among genera. Phylogenetic study of Myrmotherula antwrens revealed that all specialist species were related and that they have been evolving separately from other antwrens perhaps for as long as nine million years. Foraging specialization is therefore a primitive trait within this group (and probably others), appearing before the radiation of modern species. Study of present-day ecology may not elucidate factors leading to the evolution of such specialization, especially without concurrent phylogenetic analyses. /// Una de las razones sugeridas para la gran diversidad de aves en los bosques tropicales es el aumento en la especializacin sobre recursos que estn ausentes en hbitats templados. Este estudio investiga en detalle una de tales especializaciones, esto es, el forrajeo para artrpodos en hojarasca suspendida en bosques tropicales de tierras bajas. Hasta 16 especies de aves en dos sitios en el suroeste de Amazonia consituyen un tipo de forrajeadores especializados en la hojarasca, los cuales forman aproximadamente el 11% de las especies de pjaros insectvoros de la regin. La mayora de los especialistas en hojarasca son pizpitas (Furnariidae) o pjaros comehormigas (Formicariidae), que son miembros caractersticos de bandadas mixtas de forrajeo en el sotobosque o el dosel. Estos especialistas, comparados con otros insectvoros, tendieron a colocarse en posturas ms acrobticas y a manipular el sustrato de forrajeo con las patas o el pico. Estas especies se segregaban por hbitat, hasta cierto punto, incluyendo varios congneres que les reemplazaban. Esta asociacin alimentaria alcanz su mayor diversidad en la faja a travs del suroeste de Amazonia y a lo largo de la base de los Andes, donde las bambas y otros microhbitats de reas perturbadas le aaden heterogeneidad al bosque. Hojas muertas individuales, como recurso para los pjaros, eran abundantes en todos los tipos de bosque y sostuvieron una mayor densidad de presas (nmero por hoja) que el follaje vivo adyacente. La densidad de presas fue mayor en hojas ms grandes, especialmente en las hojas arrugadas grandes de Cecropia. La fauna artrpoda de la hojarasca suspendida fue similar a travs de las estaciones del ao, hbitats, y sitios, siendo dominada por araas, cucarachas, otros ortpteros y escarabajos pequeos. Esto contrasta grandemente con los artrpodos disponibles en el follaje vivo. Miembros de las distintas asociaciones alimentarias difirieron significativamente uno del otro en altura de forrajeo, tamao o tipo de hojas forrajeadas, composicin de la dieta, o el tamao de la presa, aunque los solapamientos ecolgicos entre parejas de especies fueron usualmente altos (0.900). Aunque se encontr el doble de especies en terrenos bajos comparados con bosques en terrenos altos, el solapamiento ecolgico entre las especies en cada hbitat fue usualmente similar. La similaridad en el comportamiento entre especies no estuvo relacionada con el solapamiento diettico. El tamao de las presas cazadas, sin embargo, estuvo correlacionado con el tamao del pico, excepto que la especie ms grande Xiphorhynchus guttatus, consumi presas sorpresivamente pequeas. La composicin diettica de todas las especies difiri significativamente de la disponibilidad de presas en hojas muertas, siendo los ortpteros seleccionados por todas las especies, mientras que cucarachas y araas pequeas fueron evitadas. Censos de 92 bandadas de especies mixtas no revelaron asociaciones negativas y solamente dos asociaciones positivas entre especies, lo que sugiere que las aves se asocian con bandadas independientemente de qu otras especies estn presentes. Individuos de Myrmotherula leucophthalma y M. ornata que se encontraban en las mismas bandadas no eran agresivos y convergan en la altura y substrato utilizado. En contraste, Automolus tendi a divergir en la altura de forrajeo y exhibi agresin abiertamente. La segregacin de nichos entre forrajeros de hojas muertas, por lo tanto, representa un balance entre beneficios y costos impuestos por alimentarse en bandadas de especies mixtas; esto es, aumento en la vigilancia y la defensa grupal de territorios versus la alimentacin cerca de competidores potenciales. La especializacin en hojas muertas evolucion independientemente en varias Familias de aves, pero muestra fuertes restricciones filogenticas entre Gneros. El estudio filogentico de Myrmotherula revel que todas las especies especialistas estaban relacionadas y han estado evolucionando separadamente de otros del mismo Gnero, quizs por tanto como nueve millones de aos. La especializacin en el forrajeo, por lo tanto, es un rasgo primitivo dentro de este grupo (y probablemente otros), que aparece antes de la radiacin evolutiva de especies modernas. El estudio de la ecologa actual puede no elucidar factores que conlleven a la evolucin de tal especializacin, especialmente sin los anlisis filogenticos correspondientes.
10.1525/om.2011.72.1.1|
               
10.2307/40168280|The neotropical avifauna, comprising approximately 3300 species, is the richest in the world. Most of the 1100 species of the suboscine Passeriformes (suborder Tyranni) are found in South America where they outnumber oscines (song-birds) two to one and locally three to one. The majority of suboscines is insectivorous, including many tyrant-flycatchers and furnariids adapted to open, and even terrestrial, environments. In South America the seed-eating niche is left to the oscines (finches, buntings, grosbeaks). From an historical perspective, the neotropical avifauna is comprised of (a) a Southern Hemisphere Element, (b) a Northern Element, (c) a South American Element, and (d) an Unanalyzed Element. The known fossil avifauna of the Cenozoic includes 60 families (9 extinct), 193 genera (51 extinct), and 274 species (94 extinct) of landbirds and freshwater birds. Most of these fossil South American birds are non-passeriform, only 10 families of Passeriformes being represented. Pliocene faunas are quite distinct from present avifaunas at both generic and specific levels. Faunal turnover rates in the Pleistocene are markedly increased as compared to the Late Tertiary and may reflect increased rates of allopatric speciation during the Pleistocene. Numerous bird species are clustered in fairly restricted portions of the extensive neotropical lowlands, and characterize a series of areas of endemism (15 in the neotropical forests and seven in the South American nonforest regions) each with 10 to 50 species and many subspecies. Most contact zones of subspecies and closely related parapatric species cluster between the central portions of areas of endemism. Large Amazonian rivers delimit, along their wide lower portions, the ranges of many bird species. Ecological interactions of species, rather than the inability to cross the watercourses or to circumvent rivers in the headwater region, often appear to cause coincidence of species' range borders with rivers. Another conspicuous biogeographic phenomenon is the wide disjunction of numerous conspecific populations. Consistent and coterminous distribution patterns exist in diverse bird families that differ widely in their feeding preferences; examples include omnivorous toucans and trumpeters, insectivorous puffbirds, jacamars, woodpeckers, antbirds, flycatchers, and icterids, and predominantly frugivorous guans, parrots, cotingas, manakins, and tanagers. An attempt is made to determine historical interrelationships of some areas of endemism on the basis of the phylogenetic patterns of selected endemic taxa and data on geological and climatic-vegetational changes (range fragmentations). Extensive vegetational fluctuations during the Pleistocene probably determined the present patterns of differentiation and distribution of most subspecies and species of neotropical birds. Analysis of the older patterns of speciation pertaining to the long time span of the Tertiary period will follow when more information becomes available on the geological and paleontological history of the neotropical avifauna. /// La avifauna neotropical consta de aproximadamente 3.300 especies, siendo la ms rica del mundo. La mayora de las 1.100 especies de los Passeriformes suboscines (suborden Tyranni) se encuentran en Sudamrica, donde sobrepasan en dos a uno y localmente tres a uno a los oscines (aves cantoras). La mayora de los suboscines son insectvoros, incluyendo muchos atrapa moscas y furnariidae adaptados a espacios abiertos e inclusive medios terrestres. En Sudamrica el nicho correspondiente a los semilleros ha sido ocupado por oscines (pinzones, trigueros y pepiteros). Si analizamos la avifauna neotropical a travs de una perspectiva histrica, vemos que est compuesta por (a) un elemento del hemisferio sur; (b) un elemento del norte; (c) un elemento sudamericano y (d) un elemento aun no analizado. La avifauna fsil del cenozoico, actualmente conocida, incluye 60 familias (9 extinguidas), 193 gneros (51 extinguidos) y 274 especies (94 extinguidas) de aves acuticas y terrestres. La mayora de estas aves fsiles de Sudamrica son no-passeriformes, slo 10 familias de Passeriformes estn representadas. Las avifaunas del plioceno son muy diferentes a las actuales, a nivel de gnero y de especie. Los cambios acaecidos en la fauna durante el pleistoceno son notablemente mayores si los comparamos con el terciario tardio y podran reflejar una mayor taza de especiacin aloptrica en diferentes reas durante el pleistoceno. Numerosas especies de aves se agrupan en porciones relativamente reducidas de las extensas llanuras neotropicales, las cuales caracterizan una serie de reas de endemismo (15 para los bosques neotropicales y siete para las regiones no boscosas de Sudamrica) cada una posee entre 10 y 50 especies y muchas subespecies. La mayora de las zonas de contacto entre subespecies y tambin especies paraptricas cercanamente relacionadas se agrupan entre las partes centrales de las reas de endemismo. Los grandes ros amaznicos delimitan a lo largo de sus anchos cauces inferiores, los rangos de distribucin de muchas especies de aves. Las interacciones ecolgicas de las especies, ms que la inhabilidad para cruzar el agua o salvar las nacientes de los ros, a menudo parece determinar la coincidencia en los lmites de los rangos de distribucin de las especies, con los ros. Otro fenmeno biogeogrfico conspicuo es la amplia disyuncin de numerosas poblaciones conespecficas. Diversas familias de aves que difieren ampliamente en sus preferencias alimenticias, presentan modelos de distribucin consistentes y limtrofes; por ejemplo omnvoros tales como tucanes y trompeteros; insectvoros como "puffbirds," "jacamars," carpinteros, "antbirds," atrapa moscas y de la familia Icteridae y de manera predominante frugvoros "guans," loros, cotingas, "manakins" y "tanagers." Se intenta determinar de manera histrica la interrelacin existente en algunas reas de endemismo en base a modelos filogenticos de determinados grupos taxonmicos endmicos e informacin en cambios geolgicos y en la vegetacin debidos a factores climticos ("range fragmentation"). Las extensas fluctuaciones en la vegetacin durante el pleistoceno, probablemente determinaron los modelos actuales de diferenciacin y distribucin para la mayora de las especies y subespecies de aves neotropicales. Cuando se disponga de ms informacin sobre geologa y la historia paleontolgica de la avifauna neotropical se llevarn a cabo anlisis de modelos de especiacin ms antiguos, pertenecientes al largo perodo del Terciario.
10.2307/40157550|Deforestation of Brazil's Atlantic Forest has threatened many plant and animal species with extinction. Here, the importance of protected areas in the Atlantic Forest Region of Brazil for the conservation of many of the most endangered bird species in the region is emphasized. A list of species is presented for four national parks and two biological reserves within the Atlantic Forest domain. /// O desmatamento da Mata Atlntica no Brasil tern ameaado de extino muitas espcies de plantas e animais. Este trabalho enfatiza a importncia das reas protegidas na regio da Mata Atlntica para a conservao de aves consideradas ameadas de extino. Listas de espcies de aves so apresentadas para quatro parques nacionais e duas reservas biolgicas pertencentes ao Domino da Mata Atlntica.
10.2307/40157546|The "brown" assemblage of New World spine-tailed swifts consists of three groups distinguishable by size: small C. vauxi, medium C. chapmani, and large C. pelagica. Two of the three species groups are migratory: the vauxi group undertakes short movements from northern temperate to tropical latitudes, and some populations in tropical highlands may move to lowlands. The pelagica group makes long-distance movements. Chaetura andrei is not a valid taxon; the nominate form pertains to the vauxi species group. It is proposed that the taxa C. andrei meridionalis and C. chapmani viridipennis be elevated to species rank. The latter two taxa are probably more closely related to C. pelagica than to the species in which they are currently placed. All three groups, small, medium, and large, constitute the pelagica superspecies. /// El grupo "caf" de los vencejos de cola de espina del Nuevo Mundo esta constituido por tres subgrupos diferenciados por el tamao: el pequeo, C. vauxi, el mediano, C. chapmani y el grande, C. pelagica. Dos de los tres subgrupos emigran despus del perodo de nidificacin; dentro del subgrupo de vauxi, los que viven en la zona templada norte emigran a latitudes mas trpicales y al parecer los que viven en las zonas templadas tropicales emigran desde las partes altas a las bajas. El subgrupo pelagica emigra transequatorialmente. Se encontr que C. andrei no es un taxn vlido, la especie pertenece al subgrupo C. vauxi. Tambin se encontr que las subespecies C. andrei meridionalis y C. chapmani viridipennis estn taxonomicamente mas cercanas a C. pelagica que sus respectivas especies. Los tres subgrupos, el pequeo, el mediano y el grande pertenecen a la superespecie pelagica.
10.2307/40157554|A review of the composition of five montane avifaunas in northwestern South America and southern Central America confirmed the distinctness of these communities from adjacent lowland areas. Excluding species that depend on aquatic resources, 1,800 bird species from 52 families were classified according to principal life zones in this review. There were 1,366 species associated with lowland areas, whereas 877 species occurred in montane areas (i.e., generally above 1,200 or 1,500 m elevation). Nearly one-half of these montane species are restricted to these high elevations, with the greatest diversity found within subtropical zones, followed by temperate and pramo zones, respectively. Comparisons with lowland avifaunas revealed that montane communities differed in trophic structure as well as familial composition. Specifically, montane communities had proportionately more nectarivores than expected by chance. When compared to randomly generated montane communities, nearly 30% of the families differed significantly in number of species from that expected if these communities were randomly assembled; eight families were more species-rich and seven families less species-rich in montane areas than expected. Moreover, montane areas had a greater number and percentage of species with restricted ranges than did lowland areas. Overall, 217 montane species (24.7%) had small geographic ranges; 142 of these were restricted to one of the five montane regions reviewed here. As evidence of the endangerment of these montane communities, nearly 10% (82) of the species are listed as threatened or near-threatened. Montane habitats are under extreme pressure from human activities. Most urban centers are located in or close to the mountains in the regions reviewed here. Given the high diversity and singularity of these avifaunas, together with high levels of habitat alteration, protection of montane ecosystems should become a priority for conservation efforts in the Neotropics. /// Una revisin de la composicin de cinco avifaunas de montaa en el Noroeste de Sur Amrica y el sur de Centro Amrica confirm la diferencia de estas comunidades con las de las tierras bajas. Sin incluir especies que dependen de recursos acuticos, 1,800 especies de aves de 52 familias fueron clasificadas de acuerdo a las principales zonas de vida. 1,366 especies fueron asociadas con areas de tierras bajas, de las cuales 877 especies se encontraron en areas montaosas (generalmente encima de 1,200-1,500 m de elevacin). Casi la mitad de estas especies de areas montaosas estn restringidas a estas elevaciones altas, encontrndose la mayor diversidad en zonas subtropicales, seguidas por zonas templadas y de pramo respectivamente. Comparaciones con avifaunas de tierras bajas revelan que las comunidades de montaa difieren en estructura trfica as como en la composicin de las Familias. Especficamente, las comunidades de montaa tuvieron proporcionalmente mayor nmero de nectarvoros que los esperados al azar. Se compararon avifaunas de montaas con comunidades ensambladas al azar usando simulaciones de Monte Carlo. En estas comparaciones, cerca del 30% de las familias se diferenciaron significativamente en el nmero de especies; ocho fueron mas ricas y siete fueron menos ricas en areas montaosas de lo esperado. Adems, las areas de montaa tuvieron un mayor nmero y porcentaje de especies con rangos restringidos que las de tierras bajas. Un total de 217 especies de montaa (24.7%) tuvieron rangos geogrficos pequeos; 142 de estas fueron restringidas a una de cinco regiones de montaa que fueron revisadas en este trabajo. Cerca del 10% (82) de estas especies se encuentran enlistadas como amenazadas o casi-amenazadas, lo que evidencia el peligro de extincin de estas comunidades de montaa. Los areas de montaa se encuentran bajo extrema presin por actividades humanas. Muchas de los centros urbanos se encuentran localizados en  cerca de las montaas que fueron revisadas. La proteccin de los ecosistemas de montaa debe ser una prioridad para los esfiierzos de conservacin en los Neotrpicos debido a la alta diversidad y singularidad de estas avifaunas, as como a los altos niveles de alteracin en los habitats.
10.2307/40166817|Brood parasitism by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater; hereafter "cow- birds") reduces the reproductive output of individual hosts and has been the subject of considerable research and management activity. Many current management practices aimed at controlling parasitism are based on outdated perceptions. Among these are that cowbirds are increasing in range and abundance; cowbirds are relatively new to North America; cowbird parasitism reduces or limits population sizes of host species; new host populations are defenseless against parasitism; and cowbird control increases reproductive output and populations of hosts. Instead, cowbird numbers have declined significantly in recent decades. Cowbirds have been in North America for at least a million years, and their numbers likely peaked when mammalian megafauna were present during the Pleistocene. Thus, effects on hosts have occurred over a long period, and any recent extinction threats posed by cowbirds are likely attributable to anthropogenic changes. Because of this long history of contact with cowbirds, many hosts that nest in nonforested habitat have had long periods to evolve adaptations against parasitism, and evidence clearly demonstrates that they retain those defenses from past bouts of parasitism and, hence, are often well defended when parasitism is renewed. Cowbird parasitism is only one of many factors that can limit avian populations, and despite such factors, avian populations can still produce enough young to remain stable. There is no evidence that cowbirds are a serious threat to the survival of any passerines other than several taxa that are listed as federally endangered species. Cowbird control does not always translate into increased population sizes for those endangered species, and habitat loss is the most critical factor limiting their populations. Current management programs based on these outdated perceptions have shifted the focus away from the most critical issue threatening avian populations, namely anthropogenic habitat disturbance. A serious shortcoming of cowbird control programs is that they are open-ended; this is because local cowbird numbers in control areas are usually unchanged year after year as a result of extensive dispersal of new cowbirds into those areas. In some cases, control programs have become excessive and have been co-opted by special interests, particularly in Texas, where a broad statewide program to control cowbirds has been used to legitimize environmentally harmful actions that can hinder recovery of endangered species and affect avian diversity in general. We provide a series of questions that should be addressed before the initiation of cowbird control programs. Most importantly, we encourage managers to determine whether cowbirds are an important pressure on the host populations they oversee, whether resources used for control programs could have greater management benefits if used differently, and whether it is possible to define conditions that will indicate that annual cowbird control is no longer needed. /// El parasitismo de cra por Molothrus ater reduce el xito reproductivo de los individuos hospederos, por lo que ha sido el sujeto de considerable nmero de actividades de investigacin y manejo. Muchas de las prcticas de manejo usuales que pretenden controlar el parasitismo se basan en percepciones anticuadas. Entre ellas, que M. ater est incrementando su rango de distribucin y abundancia, que M. ater es relativamente nuevo en Norteamrica, que el parasitismo de M. ater reduce o limita los tamaos poblacionales de las especies hospederas, que las nuevas poblaciones de hospederos estn indefensas contra el parasitismo, y que el control de M. ater aumenta el tamao y la productividad de las poblaciones de los hospederos. Sin embargo, el nmero de M. ater ha declinado significativamente en dcadas recientes. M. ater ha estado en Nortemrica por al menos un milln de aos, y sus nmeros pareciera que tuvieron un mximo en el Pleistoceno, cuando la megafauna de mamferos estaba an presente. En consecuencia, los efectos sobre sus hospederos han existido durante un largo perodo, y cualquier riesgo de extincin reciente propuesto que involucrara a M. ater, podra ser atribuido a cambios antropognicos. Debido a esta larga historia de contacto con M. ater, muchos hospederos de hbitats no boscosos han tenido un largo perodo para desarrollar adaptaciones en contra del parasitismo. Adems, existe evidentia clara de que retienen aquellas defensas desarrolladas durante eventos pasados de parasitismo y que, frecuentemente, estn bien defendidos cuando el parasitismo se renueva. El parasitismo por M. ater es slo uno de los numerosos factores que pueden limitar las poblaciones de aves, y a pesar de dichos factores, estas poblationes pueden an producir suficientes juveniles como para permanecer estables. No existe evidencia de que M. ater sea una seria amenaza para la supervivencia de ningn Passeriforme excepto aquellos pocos taxa que estn en la lista de especies en peligro a nivel federal. El control de M. ater no siempre se traduce en un incremento en el tamao poblacional de aquellas especies en peligro, y la prdida de hbitat es el factor ms crtico que limita dichas poblaciones. Los programas de manejo usuales basados en aquellas percepciones anticuadas han desviado el foco alejndolo del ms crtico problema que amenaza las poblaciones de aves, nos referimos a los disturbios antropognicos del hbitat. Un serio defecto de los programas de control de M. ater es que no tienen fin. Esto es debido a que los nmeros de M. ater en reas de control se mantienen prcticamente constantes ao a ao como resultado de una amplia dispersin de nuevos individuos hacia dichas reas. En algunos casos, los programas de control se han convertido en excesivos y han sido adoptados por intereses especiales, particularmente en Texas, donde un amplio programa que abarca todo el estado para el control de M. ater, ha sido utilizado para legitimar prcticas ambientales dainas que pueden obstruir la recuperacin de especies en peligro y afectar la diversidad de aves en general. Nosotros proponemos una serie cuestiones que deben ser abordadas antes de iniciar los programas de control de M. ater. Ms an, alentamos a los responsables del manejo para que determinen si los M. ater son una presin importante sobre las poblaciones de hospederos que ellos vigilan, si los recursos usados en los programas de control de M. ater podran resultar en manejos ms beneficiosos al ser invertidos en forma diferente, y si es posible definir las condiciones que indiquen que el control anual de M. ater no es ms necesario.
10.1525/om.2011.70.1.10|We initiated ornithological exploration of the sub-Himalayan region of Myanmar in 1997. The work had five main goals: to conduct a basic inventory of the avifauna, to identify special conservation needs, to investigate ornithogeographic affinities, to build knowledge of the ecology and seasonal movement patterns of the large number of poorly known birds, to clarify pathogen patterns, and to create a distributional database for understanding how climate change is affecting local and regional distribution over time. After five expeditions to northern Myanmar, we have recorded 413 species, expanded the known range for several species, and described a new subspecies for
10.2307/40168310|Using censuses from three forest types on Jamaica, West Indies, I compared the proportions of migrant wood warblers (Pamlinae) and resident nineprimaried oscines, to determine whether statistical evidence for an impact of the migrants on the resident species exists. These two assemblages contributed equally to the total numbers of birds in the main community sampled (Southern Riverine Forest). Migrants accounted for 20 to 55 percent of individuals in Southern Riverine forest, 12 to 19 percent in Montane Humid Forest, and 30 to 41 percent in Mangrove woodland. Numbers of migrants and residents were not correlated across 12 riverine forest censuses, indicating neither repulsion nor positive covariation. Results are compared with data reported by Lack (1976). In summer when migrant warblers are absent, resident populations are augmented by arrival of three abundant breeding migrants. The case of the Yellow Warbler, Dendroica petechia, cited by Lack as evidence for competitive displacement by migrants, is reexamined and an alternative explanation presented. Compared with resident species, the assemblage of migrant warblers showed comparable species richness and variability across censuses, but showed greater species diversity, despite greater morphologic uniformity. The results of this study and Lack's obtained six years apart show good concordance. /// He comparado la proporcin de gorjeadores migratorios (Parulinae) y oscines residentes de nueve primarias, utilizando censos de tres tipos de bosques en la isla de Jamaica en las Antillas, para determinar si existe una evidencia estadstica sobre el impacto que las aves migratorias causan a las residentes. Estos dos grupos contribuyen de igual manera al nmero total de aves en la principal comunidad estudiada (bosque riverino del sur). La cantidad de aves migratorias fue de 20 a 55 por ciento de los individuos en el bosque riverino del sur, 12 a 19 por ciento en bosque montaoso hmedo y 30 a 40 por ciento en bosques de manglares. Los nmeros de aves migratorias y residentes no tuvieron correlacin a lo largo de 12 bosques riverinos censados, indicando que no existe ni repulsin, ni covariacin positiva. Los resultados son comparados con information que presentara Lack (1976). En el verano cuando los gorjeadores migratorios estn ausentes, las poblaciones residentes aumentan con la llegada de tres especies migratorias anidadoras abundantes. Se reexamina y presenta una explicacin alternativa respecto al caso del gorjeador amarillo, Dendroica petechia, citado por Lack como evidencia de desplazamiento competitivo por una especie migratoria. Comparados con especies residentes, el grupo de gorjeadores migratorios presentaba una riqueza y variedad de especies comparable a lo largo de los censos, pero se observa una mayor diversidad de especies, a pesar de la mayor uniformidad morfolgica. Los resultados de este trabajo y los de Lack, hace 6 aos, muestran una buena concordancia.
10.2307/40168333|Individuals of a tropical forest avian community at a site near Catemaco in southern Veracruz were captured, banded, and observed during field work in the winters of 1973-1974 and 1974-1975. The site was revisited and resampled in November-December 1980 and 1981. Vegetation on the site had been changed during the interim as a result of human activity, from mature forest to various forms of disturbed forest and second growth. Changes in avian populations associated with habitat alteration included drastic decreases in total numbers of forest-dwelling migrant and resident species and individuals on the site and changes in the behavior of individuals from territoriality to nomadism. We hypothesize that destruction of mature forest will cause declines in forest-dwelling tropical residents and wintering migrants that breed in temperate North America. /// Durante un estudio de campo llevado a cabo en los inviernos 1973-1974 y 1974-1975, se capturaron, anillaron y observaron individuos de una comunidad de aves de un bosque tropical en una localidad cerca de Catemaco en el sur de Veracruz. El sitio fue visitado nuevamente y se volvieron a juntar muestras en noviembre-diciembre de 1980 y de 1981. Como resultado de la actividad humana durante el intern, la vegetacin del sitio ha cambiado de bosque maduro a varios tipos de bosque alterado y vegetacin secundaria. Cambios en las poblaciones de aves, asociados con la alteracin del habitat, incluyeron disminucin drstica en el nmero total de especies que habitan en el bosque, tanto residentes como migratorias, ya sea para cantidad de especies o de individuos; as mismo hubo cambios en el comportamiento de individuos--anteriormente territoriales, ahora nmades. Nuestra hiptesis es que la destruccin del bosque maduro causar reducciones en las especies tropicales residentes que habitan en el bosque, as como en las aves migratorias que invernan en la regin pero que reproducen en regiones templadas de Amrica del Norte.
10.2307/40166820|This review grew out of our realization that models play an increasingly important role in conservation but are rarely used in the research of most avian biologists. Modelers are creating models that are more complex and mechanistic and that can incorporate more of the knowledge acquired by field biologists. Such models require field biologists to provide more specific information, larger sample sizes, and sometimes new kinds of data, such as habitat-specific demography and dispersal information. Field biologists need to support model development by testing key model assumptions and validating models. The best conservation decisions will occur where cooperative interaction enables field biologists, modelers, statisticians, and managers to contribute effectively. We begin by discussing the general form of ecological modelsheuristic or mechanistic, "scientific" or statisticaland then highlight the structure, strengths, weaknesses, and applications of six types of models commonly used in avian conservation: (1) deterministic singlepopulation matrix models, (2) stochastic population viability analysis (PVA) models for single populations, (3) metapopulation models, (4) spatially explicit models, (5) genetic models, and (6) species distribution models. We end by considering the intelligent use of models in decision-making, which requires understanding their unique attributes, determining whether the assumptions that underlie the structure are valid, and testing the ability of the model to predict the future correctly. Received 30 August 2005, accepted 25 November 2005. /// Esta revisin surgi al reconocer que los modelos juegan un papel cada vez ms importante en conservacin, pero son raramente usados en las investigaciones realizadas por la mayora de los bilogos que trabajan con aves. En la actualidad se estn creando modelos complejos que involucran mecanismos que podran incorporar ms del conocimiento que han adquirido los bilogos de campo. Estos modelos requieren que los bilogos de campo provean informacin ms especfica, utilicen tamaos muestrales mayores y que en algunos casos provean nuevos tipos de datos, como demografa en hbitats especficos e informacin sobre dispersin. Los bilogos de campo deben apoyar el desarrollo de modelos a travs de la prueba de los supuestos claves y la validacin de los modelos. Las mejores decisiones en conservacin ocurrirn al existir una interaccin cooperativa y efectiva entre bilogos de campo, bilogos que realizan modelos, estadsticos y personas que trabajan en manejo. Comenzamos discutiendo la forma general de los modelos ecolgicosheursticos o que describen mecanismos, "cientificos" o estadsticosy luego destacamos la estructura, las fortalezas y debilidades y las aplicaciones de seis tipos de modelos que se utilizan comnmente en la conservacin de aves: (1) modelos determinsticos matriciales de una nica poblacin, (2) modelos de anlisis estocsticos de viabilidad poblacional (AVP) para una nica poblacin, (3) modelos metapoblacionales, (4) modelos espacialmente explcitos, (5) modelos genticos y (6) modelos de la distribucin de las especies. Terminamos considerando el uso inteligente de modelos en la toma de decisiones, lo que requiere entender los atributos especficos de cada modelo, determinar si los supuestos que subyacen a la estructura son vlidos y probar la habilidad del modelo para predecir el futuro correctamente.
10.2307/40157537|The collection and preservation of helminth parasites from birds under field conditions are discussed and suggestions are made for identification and deposition of specimens. We also report on the parasitic helminths observed during study skin preparation during an expedition to Bolivia in 1989. Of the approximately 272 bird species collected (1,110 individuals), nematodes were detected in 43 species (16%). Nematodes from 28 of the bird species could be identified, representing 12 species and 10 genera. This represents the only published report of nematode parasites of birds from Bolivia, including 2 new host and 12 new geographic records. These data provide additional baseline information on the helminth parasites of Neotropical birds that is necessary to understand the consequences of parasitic infections. /// Se discuten la coleccin y preservacin de parsitos helmintos de las aves bajo condiciones de campo y se hacen sugerencias para la identificatin y deposicin de los especmenes. Tambin reportamos sobre los helmintos parasticos observados durante la preparacin de especmenes de aves colectados en una expedicin a Bolivia en 1989. De las aproximadamente 272 especies de aves colectadas (1,110 individuos), 43 especies (16%) hospedaban nematodos. En 28 de las especies de aves, se pudieron identificar nematodos representando doce especies y 10 gneros. Esto representa el nico reporte publicado de parsitos de nematodos para las aves de Bolivia, incluyendo dos nuevos huspedes y 12 nuevos rcords geogrficos. Estos datos proporciona informacin adicional para datos bsicos sobre parsitos helmintos de aves neotropicales. Datos como estos son necesarios para poder lograr entender las consequencias de infecciones parasticas.
10.2307/40157540|In this paper we document with analysis of tape recordings the unusual song of the Neotropical Lawrence's Thrush (Turdus lawrencii). This song belongs in the category of "vocal appropriation" under the broad heading of "vocal copying" in the sense of Dobkin (1979). Study of recordings of about 30 individuals of Lawrence's Thrush, all probably males, revealed imitations of 173 bird species, as well as those of frogs and insects. Males sing for hours from song posts in the rain-forest canopy, with intermissions of five to 15 minutes, presumably during which they feed. The song is a halting, thrasher-like (Mimidae) rendition that sometimes exceeds 250 phrases without a break. In such a sequence, vocal copying of as many as 51 bird species has been detected. Individual singers almost never respond visibly to playback of such song, suggesting that it is directed to females. Based on its vocal behavior, we predict this species will prove to have an atypical thrush mating system, either promiscuous or polygynous. Copying by three other species of Neotropical thrushes is discussed. /// En este artculo documentamos el canto excepcional de Turdus lawrencii a travs de un analysis de grabaciones. Este canto est clasificado dentro de la categora de "apropriacon vocal" bajo el concepto general de "copias vocales" en el sentido de Dobkin (1979). El estudio de grabaciones de 30 individuos de Turdus lawrencii, probablamente machos en su totalidad, revela imitaciones de 173 especies de aves, tanto como imitaciones de ranas e insectos. Machos cantan por horas desde perchas en el docel del bosque lluvioso, con interrupciones de cinco a 15 minutos, perodo en el cual supuestamente se alimentan. El canto con sus cortas pausas se parece a las vocalizaciones tpicas para la familia Mimidae y a veces excede 250 frases sin descansar. En tales sequencias, se han detectado copias vocales de hasta 51 especies de aves. Los individuos cantantes casi nunca responden de forma obvia a las grabaciones de sus propios cantos, indicando que stos son dirigidos a las hembras. Basandonos en su comportamiento vocal, predecimos que esta especie tiene un sistema de apareamiento promiscuo o polignico, cual no es tpico para los trdidos. Tambin discutimos las imitaciones por tres otras especies neotropicales de la familia Turdidae.
10.1525/om.2011.70.1.64|We analyzed passerine biodiversity and phylogeography in the Sino-Himalayan region with respect to neighboring areas, especially the Siberian taiga zone to the north and tropical Asia southeast of the Himalayas and mountainous parts of southwest China. Fresh results, informative about evolutionary processes in that area, were obtained mainly by the application of new methods in passerine systematics, acoustic and molecular genetic markers. It became evident that species with areas in the Himalayas and southwest China and, in addition, often with disjunct areas in Siberia, actually belong to swarms of closely related, mostly allopatric species. In many cases these differ markedly in vocalizations and are deeply split according to molecular genetic markers. External morphology of the constituent taxa quite often remained surprisingly homogeneous and thus resulted in traditional subspecies status of single populations at best. Other such well-differentiated taxa were often overlooked and only discovered by molecular genetic techniques. Within the Himalayas, contrary to current thinking, intra-range differentiation is well developed in some taxa but still largely unresolved because of deficient sampling along the Himalayan chain. Both subspecies and allopatric species are also concerned here. Apparently, the Himalayas were mostly settled from the east following intra-range diversification. Immigration from the west into the Himalayas was a much rarer event and, impeded by the monsoons, immigrants reached just west Nepal and, with respect to evolutionary history, did not diverge further. Himalayan endemic passerines are few and mainly confined to the western part.
10.2307/40157532|Audio recordings of tropical birds are important tools for biologists involved in the study, management, and conservation of birdlife; the ability to acoustically identify a species in a number of tropical habitats is essential. Recording method, equipment, and the condition of equipment can affect the accuracy and quantity of audio recordings collected. Suitability of currently available analog recording systems, emerging digital recording formats, and differing microphone designs for field work varies. This paper discusses essential and effective criteria that can be used to select a recording system based upon research goals and financial resources. To survey and study tropical birds, biologists increasingly recognize that it is essential to be able to identify the birds by their sounds and to have the skill to make audio recordings of their voices (Parker 1991). Although several papers have been written on making audio recordings of bird sounds for research (Gulledge 1976; Wickstrom 1982; Ranft 1991; Vielliard 1993), recent advances in recording technology, together with the specific requirements of the tropical researcher, warrant revisiting and updating the information presented in these publications. This paper presents the fundamental technical information required to master the operation of a field recording system and prepares the recordist for situations that may be encountered in the tropics. /// Las grabaciones del sonido de aves tropicales son herramientas importantes para los bilogos envueltos en el estudio, manejo y conservacin de las aves. La habilidad para identificar acsticamente a una especie en varios tipos de hbitats tropicales es esencial. El mtodo de grabacin, equipo y la condicin del equipo, pueden afectar la exactitud y cantidad de grabaciones coleccionadas. La conveniencia de los sistemas de grabacin anlogos disponibles al presente, los formatos de grabaciones digitales actuales y los diferentes diseos de micrfonos para trabajo de campo varan. Este artculo discute los criterios esenciales y efectivos que pueden ser utilizados para seleccionar un sistema de grabacin basado en las metas de investigacin y los recursos financieros disponibles. Para estudiar y hacer censos de aves tropicales, los bilogos reconocen que es esencial poder identificar los pjaros por sus sonidos y tener las destrezas para hacer grabaciones de sus voces (Parker 1991). Aunque varias publicaciones sobre la preparacin de grabaciones de sonidos de aves han sido escritas para la investigacin (Gulledge 1976, Wickstrom 1982, Ranft 1991, Vielliard 1993), avances recientes en la tecnologa de grabacin, junto con los requerimientos especficos del investigador del trpico, ameritan revisar y poner al da la informacin presentada en estas publicaciones. Este artculo presenta la informacin tcnica fundamental requerida para dominar la operacin de un sistema de grabaciones en el campo y prepara al grabador de sonidos de aves para situaciones que se pueden encontrar en los trpicos.
10.2307/40168311|The foraging niche relations of ciconiiform wading birds in hyperseasonal wet savannas are influenced by seasonal fluctuations in rainfall, water depth, and food abundance and availability. The ciconiiform wading bird community of the Venezuelan Llanos includes 22 species, that of the Florida Everglades includes 15. Both faunas contain more species of herons than ibises, spoonbills, or storks. The Llanos supports terrestrial ibises, very large storks, and species that live in mated pairs year-round, types of wading birds not found in the Everglades. The wading bird community of the Everglades is numerically dominated by a single species, whereas abundances are more equitably distributed among species in the Llanos. Seasonal cycles of prey availability, bird migration, and fluctuating water depth influence packing of species in the wading bird community of both savannas. The Llanos includes relatively more terrestrial habitat than does the Everglades and supports a greater variety and amount of potential prey. Thus the Llanos provides more diverse foraging opportunities. Wading bird species found in both areas feed on analogous types of prey, although the diets of some species in the Llanos include types of prey with no analogue in the Everglades, the fish fauna of which is derived from temperate North America. /// Las relaciones de los nichos de forraje de la comunidad de aves zancudas ciconiformes en savanas excesivamente hmedas estn influenciendas por las fluctuaciones estacionales de lluvias, profundidad del agua y abundancia y disponibilidad de comida. La comunidad de aves zancudas ciconiformes de los llanos venezolanos incluye 22 especies, mientras que la de los Everglades en Florida, E.E.U.U. incluye 15. Ambas avifaunas contienen mayor cantidad de especies de garzas que de ibis, picos de esptula o cuchara y cigueas. En los llanos se encuentran ibis terrestres, ciguenas muy grandes y especies que viven en pareja duranta todo el ano, tipos de aves zancudas que no se encuentran en los Everglades. La comunidad de aves zancudas de los Everglades est dominada en el aspecto numrico por una sola especie, mientras que la abundancia de especies de los llanos est distribuda de manera ms equitativa. Ciclos estacionales de disponibilidad de presas, migracin de aves y fluctuacin de la profundidad de las aguas son quienes influyen en el compactamiento de las especies de la comunidad de aves zancudas de ambas savanas. Los llanos incluyen relativamente mayor cantidad de habitats terrestres que los Everglades y poseen una mayor variedad y cantidad de posibles presas. As los llanos preveen diversidad de oportunidades de forrajeo. Las aves zancudas encontradas en ambas reas se alimentan en tipos de presas anlogas, aunque las dietas de algunas especies de los llanos incluyen presas que no tienen anlogos en los Everglades, la ictiofauna que se deriva del clima templado de Amrica del Norte.
10.1525/om.2010.67.1.35|The utility of subspecies in studies of evolution and migration and in conservation planning has been debated hotly for a half-century. Inconsistent and sometimes sloppy application of the subspecies concept has led some to deem it a failure, but recent quantitative definitions of subspecies have put the concept on more rigorous footing. Nonetheless, the molecular revolution has added fuel to the fire as researchers attempt to test subspecies by genetic means. Until a sound and defensible null expectation is developed for genetic differentiation of subspecies, genetic approaches will be fraught with problems. A test for monophyly is insufficient, because parapatric subspecies interbreed by definition. Moreover, because much geographic variation may arise via natural selection, tests restricted to selectively neutral genetic data are likewise problematic. Moreover, long-standing charges of subjectivity in the naming and diagnosis of subspecies must be addressed if subspecies are to continue to be accepted as valid taxonomic entities. Statistical advances, including pairwise tests, spline regression, module identification in neural networks, Monmonier's algorithm, and unsupervised, fuzzy
10.2307/40157552|The Rufous-sided Pygmy-Tyrant (Euscarthmus rufomarginatus, Tyrannidae) was rediscovered in high-grass bushy savannas ("campo-cerrados") in western Mato Grosso and nearby Bolivia. Pairs of this species hop wrenlike low in the vegetation, at times in mixed-species flocks, eating insects and fruits; a twittery song and January fledgling were noted. Two other small grassland flycatchers, the Bearded Tachuri (Polystictus pectoralis) and Sharp-tailed Tyrant (Culicivora caudacuta), are in more open remnant grasslands ("campos") of interior South America. Single adults care for tachuri fledglings, pairs (with family groups until winter) in Sharp-tails. All three flycatcher species are now rare, owing to destruction of huge areas by agribusiness, and annual burning of many remnant savannas. Other rare savanna species needing research include Blue-eyed Ground-Dove (Columbina cyanopis), encountered only once in our studies, and Ochre-breasted Pipit (Anthus nattereri), one of several species that prefer lightly grazed or burned savanna. Birds of natural savannas shift every few years with local fires: tall-grass species move to older grassland and fire-followers to the new burns. Large or connected reserves are needed to provide both types of habitat; small reserves protected from fire turn to scrub, while annually burned ranches save few birds. /// Notas sobre trs pequenos tirandeos dos campos nativos, com comentrios sobre o desaparecimento das savanas diversificadas pelo fogo na Amrica do Sul. A maria-corrura (Euscarthmus rufimarginatus, Tyrannidae) foi redescoberta nos campos cerrados arbustivos com gramineas altas a oeste de Mato Grosso e cercanias de Bolivia. Pares desta espcie saltitam como as corruras, baixo na vegetao e por vezes juntam-se aos bandos mistos, alimentando-se de insetos e frutos; foi notado um filhote em janeiro. Dois outros tiranideos pequenos, o tricolino-canela, Polystictus pectoralis e a maria-docampo, Culicivora caudacuta, so encontrados mais comumente em remanescentes campestres mais abertos do interior da Amrica do Sul. Apenas um dos adultos cuida dos filhotes em P. pectoralis, e o casal (com grupos familiares ate o inverno) em C. caudacuta. Atualmente, todas as trs espcies so raras, devido  destruio de grandes reas para agricultura e o fogo anual em muitos dos cerrados remanescentes. Outras espcies raras de cerrado que necessitam ser pesquisados incluem a rolinha-brasileira, Columbina cyanopis, encontrada somente uma vez durante nossos estudos e, o caminheiro-grande, Anthus nattereri, uma das vrias espcies que preferem pastos levemente utilizados ou os cerrados queimados. As aves dos cerrados naturais mudam a cada poucos anos com os fogos locais: espcies de gramas altas mudam-se para os campos mais desenvolvidos e as seguidoras-de-fogo para as reas recentemente queimadas. Reservas grandes ou interligadas so necessrias para proporcionar ambos os tipos de habitat; pequenas reservas protegidas do fogo transformam-se em arbustos densos, enquanto os pastos queimados anualmente retm poucas aves.
10.1525/om.2010.67.1.79|Outdated and overly lumped alpha taxonomy among the world's island birds has serious consequences for scientific research and conservation. The underestimation of biodiversity on islands obscures their role as speciation laboratories, distorts sampling in genetic studies, biases research planning, leads to neglect of endangered island species mistakenly classified as subspecies, and reduces potentially valuable information that might be gathered by recreational birders. Suggestions such as abandoning the biological species concept and the subspecies category in favor of the phylogenetic species concept create new problems and disrupt widely understood terminology. I review avian taxonomic history in the Hawaiian Islands, speciation patterns in Pacific island pigeons and doves, and patterns of variation in the widespread Polynesian Starling (
10.2307/40157541|This study presents information on the seasonal status of a cloud-forest avifauna on Colombia's Pacific Andean slope at 950-1050 m elevation. Two hundred seventy-one species were recorded at the 70-80 ha site. About 64% of these were year-round residents. The remainder (36%) were vagrants and species showing varying degrees of seasonal movements; 22% were short-distance (elevational or local) migrants, 8% were long-distance migrants from North America. Short-distance migrants were predominantly frugivores and nectarivores; over half (58%) of all nectarivores were elevational migrants. Seasonal movements were recorded in all months, but short-distance migrants were most numerous March-June and November-January, periods when migrants from both the highlands and lowlands were present. The abundance of flowers and fruits also showed two small peaks. About twice as many short-distance migrant nectarivores came from high elevations as low elevations. A majority of short-distance migrant frugivores also were from the highlands. Eight Tangara tanagers, although resident, showed significant expansions and contractions of foraging range, diversity of fruit eaten, and amount of fruit included in their diet, an indication that these birds track resource levels, and that variation in fruit abundance affects the dynamics of frugivore populations. /// Este estudio muestra una informacin preliminar de cambios estacionales de la avifauna de un bosque nublado en la vertiente pacifica de los Andes colombianos. Se registr un total de 271 especies en un rea entre 70-80 ha. Alrededor de un 36% de las especies mostraron evidencias de movimientos estacionales; 22% presentaban movimientos altitudinales o locales y 8% eran aves migratorias de larga distancia que se reproducen en Norte Amrica. Las aves migratorias de corta distancia eran principalmente nectivoros y frugiforos; 58% de los nectivoros eran aves migratorios que se presentaban movimientos altitudinales o locales. Los movimientos estacionales fueron complejas y distribuidos a lo largo del ao, pero ms aves migratorias de corta distancia estuvieron presente durante los perodos de marzo a junio y de noviembre a enero, epocas cuando provena especias de elevacines mayores y menores. La abundancia de flores y fruitas tambien mostraron evidencias de cambios estacionales. Los nectivoros migratorios provena predominantemente de elevacines mayores; tambien la majora de frugforos estacionales provena de regiones altas. Ocho especies de Tangara no mostran evidencias de movimientos altitudinales pero mostraron aumentos y reduccines de sus rangos de alimentaciones, equalmente en la diversidad y cantidad de frutas consumidos.
10.2307/40157569|We describe the foraging behavior and vocalizations of four Myrmotherula antwrens endemic to the Atlantic Forest biome of Brazil: minor (Salvadori's Antwren), unicolor (Unicolored Antwren), snowi (Alagoas Antwren), and urosticta (Band-tailed Antwren). Application of these data in intrageneric comparisons suggests that minor is most closely related to M. schisticolor (Slaty Antwren) and M. sunensis (Rio Suno Antwren) and that unicolor is a member of the "plain-winged" group, which we suggest is monophyletic, including M. behni (Plain-winged Antwren), M. grisea (Ashy Antwren), and M. snowi. Based on significant heterogynism and external morphological distinctions and, to a lesser extent (owing to inadequate and ambiguous samples of songs), vocal differences, we recommend that snowi, originally described as a subspecies of unicolor, be elevated to species rank. M . urosticta is the Atlantic Forest representative of the widespread urostictal longipennis (Long-winged Antwren) complex. We discuss the concept that foraging data sets must be quantified to be comparable or applicable in systematic revision. /// Descrevemos os hbitos de forrageamento e vocalizaes de quatro espcies do gnero Myrmotherula endmicas ao bioma brasileiro da Mata Atlntica: minor, unicolor, snowi e urosticta. A aplicao desses dados em comparaes intragenricas sugere que M. minor  mais proximamente relacionada a M. schisticolor e M. sunensis e que M. unicolor  membro do grupo de espcies de "asas-lisas" - o qual sugerimos considerar monofiltico - incluindo M. behni, M. grisea e M. snowi. Baseado na significante heteroginia e diferenas morfolgicas externas e, em menor extenso (considerando que a amostra existente  inadequada e ambgua), diferenas no repertrio vocal, recomendamos que M. snowi, originalmente descrita como subespcie de M. unicolor, seja elevada ao nvel de espcie. M. urosticta  o representante na Mata Atlntica do - bem espalhado - complexo urostictal longipennis. Discutimos o conceito que dados de forrageamento devem ser quantificados para ser comparveis ou aplicveis em revises sistemticas.
10.2307/40157555|It has been proposed that the closest relatives of the endemic Whistling Warbler (Catharopeza bishopi) are the Plumbeous (Dendroica plumbea), Arrow-headed (Dendroica pharetra), and the Elfin Woods (Dendroica angelae) warblers. We present vocal, plumage, structural, and behavioral data that indicate that Catharopeza is not closely related to Dendroica; these data suggest that the closest living relative of Catharopeza is the Phaeothlypis group of the basileuterine warblers. /// Se ha propuesto que los grupos filogenticamente ms cercanos a Catharopeza bishopi son Dendroica plumbea, D. pharetra y D. angelae. En este escrito, mostramos caracteres de vocalizacin, plumaje, estructura y comportamiento sugieren que el grupo ms cercano a Catharopeza es el grupo Phaeothlypis, que se considera parte de Basileuterus. Se presenta la sugerencia que D. plumbea no es un miembro de la misma superespecie como D. pharetra y D. angelae.
10.2307/40166815|Brown-headed cowbirds (Molothrus ater; hereafter "cowbirds") often forage with grazing ungulates. Although domestic livestock have largely replaced American bison (Bos bison) as the cowbird's foraging associate, recent restoration of bison to their former territories has increased opportunities for cowbirds to interact with this native grazer. During summer 2002, we studied the behavior of cowbirds and bison in a 27,000-ha shortgrass prairie pasture in northeastern New Mexico. We monitored afternoon distribution of bison and native ungulates within the pasture. We used radiotelemetry to monitor daily movements and behavior of female cowbirds breeding in adjacent pinyon and juniper woodlands; we located and monitored host nests to measure parasitism rates. Our objectives were to (1) measure the spatial and temporal distribution of bison, (2) examine effects of daily changes in bison distribution on breeding and foraging strategies of female cowbirds, and (3) compare the behavior of cowbirds in a bison-grazed landscape with that in a cattle-grazed one. The number of bison within 10 km of the radiotagged cowbirds' breeding grounds varied daily, ranging from 6 to 1,161 individuals. Radiotagged female cowbirds (n = 10) were typically involved in breeding activities in pinyon-juniper woodlands in the mornings and commuted an average of 7.24 km to prairie sites to feed during afternoons. Radiotagged cowbirds fed primarily with bison (77.0% of feeding relocations), but they also fed with elk (Cervus elaphus; 9.9%), without ungulates at a dry lakebed (10.6%), and in a bison-handling corral (1.9%). When few bison were within 10 km of the cowbird breeding ranges, cowbirds foraged with elk or without ungulates. Mean commuting distance was related to distance of the nearest bison from the breeding grounds. Females in the bison-grazed landscape commuted farther and had larger feeding areas and overall home ranges than those in the cattle-grazed landscape. Differences in commuting behavior resulted from bison mobility and differences in management strategies. Increased commuting distances caused by bison mobility may result in reduced egg-laying rates for cowbirds, potentially benefiting breeding songbirds. /// Molothrus ater suele alimentarse junto a ungulados herbvoros. Aunque el ganado domstico ha reemplazado al bisonte americano (Bos bison) como especie asociada durante la alimentacin de M. ater, la restauracin reciente de los bisontes a sus territorios habituales ha incrementado las oportunidades que tiene M. ater de interactuar con este herbvoro nativo. Durante el verano de 2002 estudiamos el comportamiento de los M. ater y bisontes en una pradera de pastos cortos de 27,000 ha en el nordeste de Nuevo Mxico. Monitoreamos la distribucin de bisontes y ungulados nativos durante la tarde dentro de la pastura. Utilizamos radiotelemetra para monitorear los movimientos y el comportamiento diario de las hembras de M. ater reproducindose en zonas adyacentes a bosques de piones y enebros, y localizamos y monitoreamos nidos de los hospederos para medir las tasas de parasitismo. Nuestros objetivos fueron: (1) medir la distribucin espacial y temporal de los bisontes, (2) examinar el efecto del cambio diario en la distribucin del bisonte en la reproduccin y estrategias de alimentacin de las hembras de M. ater, y (3) comparar el comportamiento de los M. ater en un ambiente que es mantenido por el pastoreo de bisontes contra otro mantenido por el pastoreo de ganado domstico. El nmero de bisontes dentro de los 10 km de las reas reproductivas de M. ater con radiotransmisores variaron diariamente, en un rango de 6 hasta 6,161 individuos. Las hembras de M. ater con radiotransmisores (n = 10) tpicamente se involucraron en actividades reproductivas en los bosques de pin-enebro durante la maana, mudndose en promedio a 7.24 km de distancia a alimentarse a zonas de praderas durante la tarde. Los M. ater con radiotransmisores se alimentaron principalmente con los bisontes (77% de las relocalizaciones de alimentacin), pero se alimentaron tambin con alces (Cervus elaphus; 9.9%), sin ungulados en un fondo seco de lago (10.6%), y en un corral para la manipulacin de bisontes (1.9%). Cuando haba pocos bisontes dentro de los 10 km de las reas reproductivas de los M. ater, stos se alimentaron con alces o sin ungulados. La distancia media de movimiento de los M. ater estuvo relacionada con la distancia al bisonte ms cercano de su rea de reproduccin. Las hembras de M. ater de ambientes mantenidos por el pastoreo de bisontes se mudaron ms lejos y posean reas de alimentacin y reas de accin totales mayores que aquellas pertenecientes a ambientes mantenidos por el pastoreo de ganado. Las diferencias en los movimientos fueron causadas por la movilidad de los bisontes y diferencias en estrategias de manejo. El aumento en la movilidad de las hembras de M. ater causado por la movilidad de los bisontes podran implicar una disminucin en su tasa de puesta de huevos, potencialmente beneficiando a las aves canoras.
10.2307/40157571|New information on the vocalizations, behavior, and habitat of populations of the Rusty-backed Spinetail (Cranioleuca vulpina) reveal that it actually consists of two species-level taxa: a wide-ranging, polytypic species (C. vulpina) that occupies vrzea and riverine forests and flooded savanna woodlands north and south of the Amazon, and a more specialized form (C vulpecula) restricted to successional habitats on islands in the Amazon and its major white-water tributaries. Long considered a subspecies of C. vulpina, C. vulpecula is shown to be morphologically, vocally, and ecologically distinct from sympatrically distributed populations, with no evidence of intergradation. I found C. vulpecula to be common on Ilha Marchantaria in the Rio Solimes near Manaus, Brazil, a major eastward extension of its known range. One form or another of C. vulpina occupies the adjacent "mainland" banks of the river north and south of Marchantaria, as well as black-water islands in the nearby Rio Negro. /// Novas informaes sobre vocalizaes, comportamento, e habitat de populaes do joo-do-rio (Cranioleuca vulpina) revelam que este taxon contm duas espcies: uma (C vulpina) politpica, de ampla distribuio, habitando vrzea, mata de galeria, e savanas inundveis ao norte e sul do Rio Solimes-Amazonas, e a outra (C. vulpecula) especializada em ambientes sucessionais de ilhas no Rio Solimes e seus principais afluentes de gua branca. Cranioleuca vulpecula, por muito tempo tratada como subespcie de C. vulpina,  morfologicamente, vocalmente, e ecologicamente distinta de populaes simptricas de C. vulpina, sem evidncia de intergradao. Cranioleuca vulpecula  comm na Ilha Marchantaria no Rio Solimes em frente a Manaus, Amazonas, Brasil, ou outra de C. vulpina ocorre em reas adjacentes, nas margens do rio e nas ilhas de gua preta do Rio Negro.
10.2307/40168299|The purpose of this article is to explore the connection between past and present environments and evolutionary forces operating on Darwin's finches. The finches diversified from a single ancestral stock on the modern Galpagos Islands probably between 0.5 and 1.5 million years before present. During this time, they were probably exposed to fluctuating climates, and some species are likely to have gone extinct. Climatic conditions have varied from present conditions to much drier ones in the last 50,000 years, during which time all modern species of finches were present. Currently, some finch populations are subjected to intense directional selection on morphological variation in times of drought when food supply is low; possibly selection operates also under extreme wet conditions, but in an opposite direction. Unusually dry conditions and unusually wet conditions each occur once every decade, on average. Given a potential life span of 15 to 20 years, an individual finch may experience at least one drought and one wet year in its life-time. The main implication of these results and suggestions is that natural selection, both in the past and currently, is responsible for at least some and perhaps most of the differences between species. Modern analyses of selection can be extrapolated to yield estimates of the forces and conditions necessary to transform one species into another in the past, which is the key evolutionary process in the adaptive radiation. /// La finalidad de este artculo es explorar la coneccin entre el ambiente actual y pasado y las fuerzas evolucionarias operante en los pinzones de Darwin. Los pinzones se han diversificado a partir de un nico grupo ancestral en las modernas islas Galpagos probablemente entre los ltimos 0,5 y 1,5 millones de aos. Es muy probable que durante ese tiempo los pinzones se vieran expuestos a climas fluctuantes y quizas algunas especies se extinguieran. Las condiciones climticas han variado desde las condiciones actuales a otras mucho ms secas en los ltimos 50.000 aos, tiempo en el cual todas las especies modernas de pinzones, ya existan. Actualmente, algunas poblaciones de pinzones estn sujetas a una intensa seleccin direccional en variaciones morfolgicas en tiempos de sequa cuando hay poca disponibilidad de comida; posiblemente la seleccin tambin se produce en condiciones de extrema humedad, pero en direccin contraria. Como promedio, una vez en cada dcada se dan condiciones de inusual sequa y as como tambin de humedad extraordinaria. Si consideramos que los pinzones tienen un lapso potencial de vida de entre 15 y 20 aos, un individuo puede experimentar al menos una vez en su vida un ao de inusual sequa y otro de inusual humedad. La principal implicatin de estos resultados y sugerencias es que la seleccin natural, tanto en el pasado como actualmente, es responsable de al menos algunas y quizs la mayora, de las diferencias entre especies. Se pueden extrapolar modernos analisis de seleccin para producir estimaciones de las fuerzas y condiciones necesarias en el pasado, para transformar una especie en otra, lo cual es la llave de los procesos evolucionarios en radiacin adaptativa.
10.2307/40166898|Understanding how hybridization may affect extant and emerging taxa requires knowledge of the origins, viability, and breeding tendencies of hybrid individuals. We examined the geographic and environmental underpinnings of invasion and hybridization among native North American members of the genus Strix. In the early 20th century, the Barred Owl (S.varia) started expanding westward through southern Canada. Since 1973, the species has been invading habitats of the Spotted Owl (S. occidentalis), usually displacing but occasionally hybridizing with two Spotted Owl subspecies (S. o. occidentalis and S. o. caurina) to yield viable offspring that often disperse long distances before breeding. Given the high dispersal capabilities of the hybrids, questions remain as to whether hybrid offspring are preferentially colonizing environments that are characteristically different from their natal territories. Further questions surround the proximate origins of the Barred Owl range expansion. We show that the westward range expansion of the Barred Owl was spatiotemporally concomitant with historical increases in summer temperature and that the expansion corridor was positioned at relatively high latitudes because of habitat restrictions. These results provide quantitative support to previous claims that that the Barred Owl range expansion was largely shaped by natural processes. We also show that first filial Barred x Spotted hybrid owls occupy similar environments before and after postnatal dispersal and are randomly distributed both geographically and climatically with respect to parentals. We discuss the climatic mechanisms that may be influencing these dynamics, and conclude with implications for conservation of Strix spp. Received 5 July 2006, accepted 5 February 2007. /// Para entender cmo la hibridacin puede afectar a taxones existentes y emergentes, se necesita conocer los orgenes, la viabilidad y las tendencias de apareamiento de los individuos hbridos. En este trabajo, examinamos las bases geogrficas y ambientales de la invasin e hibridacin entre miembros del genero Strix, nativos de Norte Amrica. A principios del siglo 20, S. varia comenz a expandirse desde el oeste hacia el sur de Canad. Desde 1973, la especie ha invadido habitats de S. occidentalis, generalmente desplazndolo, aunque ocasionalmente hibridando con dos de sus subespecies (S. o. occidentalis y S. o. caurina) y produciendo una progenie viable que normalmente se dispersa a grandes distancias antes de reproducirse. Dada la gran capacidad de dispersin de los hbridos, nos preguntamos si su descendencia coloniza preferentemente ambientes distintos de sus territorios de origen. Cabe tambin preguntarse por el origen de la expansin del rango de S. varia. Nuestros resultados muestran que la expansin de su rango hacia el oeste est relacionada histricamente con un aumento de las temperaturas estivales; adems, el corredor de la expansin se localiz a latitudes altas, sto debido a restricciones en el hbitat. Estos resultados apoyan cuantitativamente las hiptesis de que la expansin del rango de distribucin de S. varia estuvo determinada por procesos naturales. Adems, mostramos que los hbridos descendientes del cruce S. varia x S. occidentalis ocupan ambientes similares, tanto climtica como geogrficamente, al de los parentales, presentando, adems, una distribucin aleatoria. Discutimos los mecanismos climticos que podran estar influenciando estas dinmicas y concluimos con implicaciones para la conservacin de Strix.
10.1525/om.2009.66.1.1|The hypothesis that birds are maniraptoran theropod dinosaurs (the "BMT hypothesis") has become widely accepted by both scientists and the general public. Criticism has usually been dismissed, often with the comment that no more parsimonious alternative has been presented with cladistic methodology. Rather than taking that position, we ask here whether the hypothesis is as overwhelmingly supported as some claim. We reanalyzed a standard matrix of 46 taxa and 208 characters from a recent paper by Clark, Norell, and Makovicky, and we found statistical support for the clades Coelurosauria and Maniraptoriformes and for a clade of birds and maniraptorans. Note, however, that because the matrix contains only birds and theropods, it assumes that the origin of birds lies within the Theropoda. In addition to this problem,
10.2307/40157526|We describe a new species of tyrant flycatcher (Tyrannidae) based on nine specimens from the forested Andean foothills of southeastern Peru and one specimen from adjacent northern Bolivia. The new form appears most closely related to Phylloscartes flaviventris. We cite evidence that the latter species is endemic to the coast range of northern Venezuela. We hypothesize that these two sister-species are more distantly related to a third, P. superciliaris, which has a relictual distribution in midmontane forests of Middle America and the northern Andes. The new species is an obligate member of mixed-species flocks and forages high in the canopy of intact primary forest. In Peru it inhabits moist forest between 650 and 1,200 m elevation; elevational range may be somewhat lower in Bolivia, but even there the species is confined to the foothills. Conservation of large tracts of these vanishing forests is essential for the persistence of this and many other species narrowly restricted to the Andean foothills. /// Decribimos una especie nueva de atrapamoscas (Tyrannidae), conocida de nueve ejemplares de los bosques hmedos premontanos del sudeste de Per, y un ejemplar del norte de Bolivia. El pariente mas cercano de la nueva especie es Phylloscartes flaviventris, que es endmico a las montaas de la costa venezolano. Nuestra hiptesis es que Phylloscartes superciliaris es el pariente ms cercano a esta par de especies. Phylloscartes superciliaris, tambin, tiene una patrn de distribucin de tipo-reliquia en los bosques de elevaciones medias en Amrica Central y los Andes al norte. La nueva especie es un miembro obligado de bandadas mixtas, y forrajea en las copas de bosque primario. En Per, la distribucin elevacional est limitada entre 650 y 1,200 m. La distribucin elevacional en Bolivia puede ser un poco ms baja, pero todava la especie est limitada a los bosques premontanos. Es esencial la conservacin de reas grandes de estos bosques, que son desapareciendo, para la persistencia de esta especie y muchas otras, que son especialistas dependientes de los bosques premontanos en los Andes.
10.2307/40168329|Excessive trapping for the cagebird trade during the early 20th century placed the Red Siskin, Carduelis cucullata, a Neotropical cardueline finch, in grave danger of extinction. 1981 estimates indicated only 600 to 800 individuals in scattered small populations in the western and central regions of the northern cordilleras of Venezuela, and trapping of these populations still continues. Capture, sale, and export of Red Siskins has been illegal in Venezuela since the 1940's, but protection has not succeeded because trapping occurs in remote regions difficult to police, and the birds are smuggled out of Venezuela to nearby Curaao. Red Siskins are protected under CITES, but the Netherlands is not a signatory party, hence CITES regulations do not apply in Curaao or Holland. Red Siskins are semi-nomadic, use many types of habitat including scrub woodland and evergreen forest, and feed on a variety of seeds and fruits. The main breeding season is May-July, with a secondary peak in November-December. Management recommendations include further field studies, establishment of national parks or reserves where Red Siskin populations are numerically strongest, and cooperation by the Netherlands and Curaao governments in stopping the smuggling of endangered animals into Curaao. /// La excesiva captura para el comercio de aves de jaula a comienzos del siglo XX puso al cardenalito, Carduelis cucullata, un pinzn neotropical, en grave peligro de extincin. Las estimaciones de 1981 indican que hay slo entre 600 y 800 individuos dispersos en pequeas poblaciones en las regiones del oeste y central de las cordilleras del norte de Venezuela y las capturas an continuan en esas poblaciones. La captura, venta y exportacin de C. cucullata en Venezuela es ilegal desde la dcada de 1940, pero la proteccin no ha tenido xito debido a que las capturas continan en regiones remotas dificiles de controlar para la polica y las aves son sacadas de contrabando de Venezuela hacia la cercana isla de Curaao. C. cucullata est protegida por CITES (Convencin para el Trfico Internacional de Especies de Flora y Fauna en Peligro de Extincin) pero Holanda no es signataria de la convencin, por lo que las regulaciones de CITES no se aplican a Curaao u Holanda. C. cucullata es seminmade, usa muchos tipos de habitats incluyendo bosques arbustivos y perennes y se alimenta de una variedad de semillas y frutas. La principal temporada de reproduccin es mayo-julio, con un pico secundario en noviembre-diciembre. Las recomendaciones de manejo incluyen ms estudios de campo, establecimiento de parques nacionals y reservas donde las poblaciones de C. cucullata son numricamente ms grandes, y cooperacin de los gobiernos de Curaao y Holanda, para detener el contrabando hacia Curaao, de esta ave en peligro de extincin.
10.2307/40166902|The so-called "walking eagle," currently known as Wetmoregyps daggetti from the Pleistocene of southern California and northern Mexico, is practically identical in morphology and proportion to the living Savanna Hawk (Buteogallus meridionalis) but ~40% larger. It should therefore be known as Buteogallus daggetti, new combination. Its habits were perhaps like those of a Savanna Hawk in that it was capable of taking much larger prey, given that the weight of B. daggetti may have exceeded that of the modern Secretarybird (Sagittarius serpentarius), and it may have occupied a similar niche. Any connection between its extinction and the disappearance of the North American mammalian megafauna is dubious at best. Received 27 November 2006, accepted 5 February 2007. /// Wetmoregyps daggetti, encontrado en el Pleistoceno en el sur de California y norte de Mxico, es prcticamente idntico en morfologa y en proporciones al gaviln pita venado Buteogallus meridionalis, aunque un 40% ms grande. Por lo tanto, debe considerarse como Buteogallus daggetti. Probablemente, sus hbitos eran muy similares a los del gaviln pita venado, siendo capaz de capturar grandes presas. Su tamao excede al del secretario (Sagittarius serpentarius), pudiendo ocupar un nicho similar. Cualquier conexin entre la extincin de Wetmoregyps daggetti y la desaparicin de la megafauna de mamferos en Norte America es, cuando menos, dudosa
10.2307/40168337|More than 50 species of flightless rails (Gruiformes: Rallidae) have been discovered on islands throughout the world, including members from most of the tribes and genera of the family. In the present study, qualitative and morphometric analysis of 3,220 study skins, more than 1,200 associated (complete and partial) skeletons, approximately 4,000 disassociated subfossil elements, and pectoral dissections of 41 fluid-preserved specimens formed the primary basis for investigation. Analyses emphasized statistical comparisons of flightless species with closest flighted relatives, augmented by analyses of data on body mass, wing areas, wing lengths, clutch sizes, egg dimensions, and ecophysiological parameters. These were integrated with a companion cladistic analysis and current evolutionary theory. Flightless members of the Rallidae span more than two orders of magnitude in body mass. Univariate comparisons of skin specimens confirmed a repeated pattern of relatively or absolutely shortened wings and (with a few exceptions) tails in flightless taxa. Greatest reductions in relative wing size were evident in Habroptila wallacii, Gallirallus australis-group, Tricholimnas spp., Habropteryx insignis, Amaurornis ineptus, and Tribonyx mortierii. These shifts were confounded by diverse changes in body size; most flightless species were characterized by increases in body size of various magnitudes (greatest in Porphyrio mantelligroup, Nesotrochis debooyi, Gallirallus australis-group, Tricholimnas lafresnayanus, Aphanapteryx bonasia, Erythromachus leguati, Diaphorapteryx hawkinsi, and Amaurornis ineptus), whereas a minority showed substantial decreases (Cabalus modestus), modest decreases (Dryolimnas aldabranus, Rallus recessus, Gallirallus wakensis, Atlantisia rogersi, most flightless Porzana, and Tribonyx hodgenorum), or virtual stasis (Porzana palmeri) in directly measured or estimated body masses. Sexual dimorphism was significant in virtually all external dimensions, although magnitudes of these differences were substantially less than within-sex differences between congeners. Although confounded by subspecific variation in some taxa, indications were found of inflated variance in some external dimensions (e.g., tail length) of flightless species relative to flighted relatives (e.g., Amaurornis ineptus). Limited data on wing loadings--ratios of body mass divided by area of wings--confirmed that two flightless species had significantly higher values than flighted relatives of similar size. Only the estimate for bulky Porphyrio hochstetteri exceeded the "threshold of flightlessness" of Meunier, whereas the value for tiny, flightless Porzana atra was roughly one fourth of the threshold value. The latter indicates the inapplicability of this criterion in taxonomic groups (e.g., Rallidae) in which reductions of the pectoral musculature are critical to flightlessness. Principal component analyses (PCAs) and canonical analyses (CAs) of studyskins provided multidimensional discrimination of species and sexes within key clades with respect to both size and shape. These not only confirmed the variably pronounced reductions in relative wing length and overall size in flightless species indicated by univariate analyses, but revealed that corresponding multivariate shifts were exceptionally great in Porphyrio hochstetteri, Porzana sandwichensis, and Amaurornis ineptus, and that sexual dimorphism was exaggerated in P. hochstetteri, Habroptila wallacii, Gallirallus owstoni, and Cabalus modestus. PCAs of lengths of extracted remiges revealed that flightless species, in addition to differences in overall size, were characterized by disproportionately short (in extreme cases, absent) distal primary remiges (i.e., had more rounded wings). Remiges displayed several important trends associated with flightlessness: reductions in length relative to body size; variably pronounced changes in shape; disproportionate shortening of the distalmost remiges, resulting in comparatively rounded wings; losses of the distalmost one or two remiges primarii and several remiges secundarii (a minority of taxa); and microanatomical reductions in the integrity of margins of vanes ("fringing"). Univariate comparisons confirmed the relative and (in some cases) absolute reductions in lengths of wing elements, and also quantified the reductions in dimensions of elements of the pectoral girdle and widths of appendicular elements. These shifts were accompanied by increased size of the cranium and pelvic apparatus in a number of flightless taxa (e.g., Porphyrio hochstetteri, Gallirallus australis-group, Amaurornis ineptus, and Tribonyx mortierii). Subfossil coots (Fulica chathamensis-group and F. newtoni) largely qualify as allometrically enlarged versions of typical congeners, comparable to two large Andean coots (Fulica cornuta and F. gigantea). Univariate sexual dimorphism was significant in most rallids. However, intersexual differences in bill lengths of several subfossil rails (Diaphorapteryx hawkinsi, Aphanapteryx bonasia, and possibly Cabalus modestus) were exceptionally great and suggestive of intersexual differences in feeding niche. Bivariate correlations within flightless species differed from those for flighted species, notably in the low correlations between most sternal measurements and other osteological variables, a pattern indicative of the virtual disjunction between sternum and other skeletal elements in flightless species. Comparisons of proportions within the pectoral limb revealed that the antebrachium, carpometacarpus, and (to a generally lesser degree) the phalanges were disproportionately short and the brachium was disproportionately long in flightless species. These patterns and the disproportionately robust alulae in flightless rails are consistent with the effects of two largely perpendicular developmental axes acting on both the skeletal and muscular derivatives of the mesoderm in the avian pectoral limb: a primary, proximal-distal growth axis; and a secondary, cranial-caudal growth axis that principally affects the manus. Proportions within the pelvic limb showed a diversity of shifts associated with the loss of flight, one of the most marked being a disproportionate elongation of the pedal digits in highly aquatic Fulica. Ratios of humerus length divided by femur length provided a remarkably robust indicator of flight capacity of rallids (with the exception of natatorial Fulica), with ratios for flighted taxa averaging above 0.90, whereas those for flightless taxa averaged below 0.90. A PCA of detailed matrices of skulls displayed the diversity of size and bill manifested by species of the Rallidae, among which the most extreme bill shapes (and probably foraging modes) were those of several flightless species (e.g., Capellirallus karamu, Diaphorapteryx hawkinsi, Aphanapteryx bonasia, and Erythromachus leguati). Pectoral allomorphosis (intraspecific allometry) displayed higher slopes in many flightless species, consistent with termination of pectoral growth at an earlier stage of skeletal development through heterochrony. CAs of skeletal measurements within clades confirmed relative magnitudes of shifts related to loss of flight that were broadly consistent with those apparent in PCAs, and confirmed significant increases in sexual dimorphism in most flightless lineages. Qualitative changes associated with flightlessness were found in most pectoral elements (especially the humerus and sternum), with many extending to the extinct adzebills (Gruiformes: Aptornithidae), and corroborated homoplasy among flightless species. Tallies of these apomorphies indicated that the most-derived flightless lineages were Porphyrio hochstetteri, Habroptila wallacii, Gallirallus australis-group, Cabalus modestus, Capellirallus karamu, and Diaphorapteryx hawkinsi. Comparisons of the pectoral musculature of rails revealed that reductions in bulk and cranial extents of mm. pectoralis et supracoracoideus were the most conspicuous myological changes. As a percentage of mean body mass, these underwent reductions among flightless taxa as high as 15% (Gallirallus australis and Tribonyx mortierii) and as low as 5-6% (Dryolimnas aldabranus and Gallinula comeri). Also typical of most flightless rails was an increase in the prominence of m. cucullaris capitis pars clavicularis (associated with the caudal regression of the apex carina sterni), attenuation of mm. biceps brachii et humerotriceps, greater distal extent of m. pronator superficialis relative to the underlying (foreshortened) radius, and a corresponding increase in the impressio m. brachialis relative to the ulna. A minority of flightless rails also showed variably pronounced weakening of fibrous portions of m. rhomboideus profundus, m. flexor digitorum superficialis, and m. ulnometacarpalis ventralis, and increased conformational variation in several muscles of the manus (mm. abductor alulae capita dorsale et ventrale, and m. extensor brevis alulae). PCAs of mean muscle measurements indicated greatest morphometric shifts in Gallirallus australis, G. wakensis, Atlantisia rogersi, Porzana palmeri, and Gallinula comeri, patterns not entirely congruent with reductions in breast muscles. A correspondence analysis of ecomorphological variables principally discriminated three groups: small crakes on small, extremely isolated islands (Porzana palmeri and P. atra), large terrestrial species from New Zealand (Porphyrio hochstetteri and Gallirallus australis), and robust, aquatic species from moderately large islands (Habroptila wallacii, Amaurornis ineptus, and Tribonyx mortierii). Most flightless rails manifest variably pronounced increases in size, and in accordance with the substantial literature on giantism, these shifts appear to confer selective advantages related to thermodynamics, procurement of mates, territoriality, capacity for fasting, and interspecific competition. These gains were accompanied by negative implications, including greater total energetic requirements, diminished capacity for stealth, and vulnerability to selected environmental and predatory agents, with the latter contributing to the minority of flightless rails showing dwarfism. Changes in body size are accompanied by allometric changes in numerous, fundamental ecophysiological parameters, among which are several critical to flight capacity. Departures from familial isometry in relative wing size accompany flightlessness in most cases, but in rails reductions in pectoral musculature (and the associated skeleton) appear to be paramount, changes that were associated with variably pronounced changes in the integument, modifications in bill shape, increased sexual dimorphism, energetically efficient reductions in basal metabolic rates, and changes in reproductive and dietary parameters. The latter are consistent with r-K shifts in life histories, and most of the ecological changes are typical of insular birds. Heterochrony, combining pectoral paedomorphosis with (in most taxa) peramorphosis of the axial and pelvic complexes, appears to underlie most anatomical apomorphies related to flightlessness in rails. Morphological and ecological changes in flightless rails provide a strong qualitative analogy with those of vertebrate and invertebrate endemics of caves (troglomorphs). Phylogenetic reconstructions of rallids are replete with morphological homoplasy, apparent irreversibility of the apomorphy associated with flightlessness, and only a few candidates for speciation following the loss of flight. Many rails show metapopulational demographic characteristics, and a number of migratory species show high vagrancy and qualify as consummate colonists of islands. These qualities suggest that a number of flighted rails, especially a core group with high fecundities and longdistance migratory patterns, may maintain dispersal polymorphisms in which a minority of progeny are predisposed to vagrancy and colonization of insular habitats. Insular colonizations occasioned thereby essentially represent "permanent migratory stopovers" followed by evolutionary refinements for year-round residency. The highly convergent morphology of flightless rails indicates a shared, readily triggered, canalized bifurcation in ontogeny that leads to the morphological and physiological changes that result in flightlessness. Conditional advantages of resources redirected in flightless lineages (e.g., conversion of investments in musculature, pectoral skeletons, and metabolic characteristics) are substantial, as indicated by the exorbitant anatomical and physiological requirements of the primary capacity surrendered, migration. The potential for this transformation may be preserved through dispersal polymorphisms and bethedging against overdependence on ephemeral, variable, natal breeding locales. Alternative patterns of dispersal also may be accelerated in some rallids through selectively maintained, environmentally induced plasticity through threshold traits or developmental reactionnorms within small demes subject to founder effects, genetic drift, and population bottlenecks. Distributions of flightless rails are explainable by a complex history of colonizations by flighted ancestors, a scant number of colonizations or nearisland expansions by flightless lineages, and extinctions related to small demes, marginal habitats, earthquakes, volcanoes, El Nio-La Nina events, and (especially) tsunamis of islands during recent millennia. Many flightless rails encountered ecological opportunities beyond those of continental confamilials. Selective advantages under these circumstances were accrued through decreased clutch size, increased egg size, and protracted developmental periods. Flightlessness in rails represents the selectively advantageous, ontogenetically mediated conversion of anatomical and caloric assets of the pectoral apparatus and associated metabolic parameters related to flight toward multiple evolutionary alternatives of intensified selective importance in insular habitats and the adoption of a nonmigratory lifestyle. The evolutionary scenario can be summarized as follows: migration-imposed anatomical and physiological requirements for migration preconditioned key rallids for a conversion of resources; vagrancy (possibly enhanced by polymorphism of dispersal and accelerated cladogenetic capacity maintained among metapopulations) provided opportunities for insular colonization; one or a suite of similar alternative, heterochronic, developmental avenue(s) retained by key rallids (perhaps triggered and hastened as threshold traits or by developmental reaction norms) facilitated the anatomical and physiological transformation to the local optimal, flightless phenotype(s) after colonization; successful colonization may have been advanced by differences in preferred stopover habitats between sexes and ages, and the acceleration of kin-selected altruism among close relatives migrating in concert; concomitant changes in size carried multiple allometrically related changes in physiology and metabolism; and despite a resilience to natural disasters (notably tsunamis), anthropogenic agencies ultimately led to extinction for most flightless lineages effectively by breaching key aspects of insularity essential to their provision of refuge. Accordingly, the "ideal avian colonist" would possess a combination of a capacity to modulate metabolic and physiological parameters; manifest dispersal polymorphism that includes long-distance, gregarious vagrancy as one component tactic; comparatively high sexual dimorphism or a potential for such; and expanded ontogenetic variance and cladogenesis that facilitates evolutionary changes in size and pectoral paedomorphosis.
10.2307/40168307|Bananaquits nesting in association (<1 m) with wasp (Polybia) nests had significantly lower nest predation rates than neighbors with nests not associated with wasp nests. Males mated to females nesting near wasp nests were more likely to retain their mates through the breeding season than males mated to females having nests unassociated with wasp nests. A survey of Bananaquit and Polybia nests indicated that trees containing nests of both were more frequent than expected by chance. Within the same tree, the distance between Bananaquit nests and the nearest wasp nest averaged 82.3 cm  10.3 (s.e.). Females nesting close to wasp nests one year did not usually nest with wasps in the following year. Also, removal of Bananaquit nests near wasp nests did not cause the females to re-nest with wasps. A probability model is presented as a null hypothesis to explain how spatial association between bird and wasp nests may arise. It is shown that a bird's random choice of a nest site in conjunction with increased nest success for nests close to wasp nests can (during several breeding attempts) produce a bird-wasp nesting association. /// Los reinitas que anidaron en asociacin (=1 m) con nidos de avispas (Polybia) tenan una tasa de depredacin significativamente ms baja que sus vecinos anidando sin asociacin con nidos de avispas. Los machos que se aparearon con hembras que anidaban cerca de nidos de avispas fueron ms propensos a retener sus parejas a lo largo de la estacin reproductiva, que los machos que se aparearon con hembras que anidaron sin asociarse con nidos de avispas. Un estudio de nidos de colibr bananero y Polybia indic que fue ms frecuente encontrar rboles que contuviesen nidos de ambos que lo que se poda esperar por chance. En un mismo rbol, la distancia promdeio entre nidos de colibres y el nido de avispa ms cercano, fue de 82,3 cm 10,3 cm (DS). Las hembras que anidaron un ao cerca de un nido de avispa, no lo hicieron al ao siguiente. As mismo, el remover un nido de colibr cercano a un nido de avispa no hizo que la hembra volviese a anidar cerca del nido de avispas. Se presenta un modelo de probabilidades como hiptesis nula, que explica como puede originarse la asociacin espacial entre aves y avispas. Se muestra que la eleccin al azar de un sitio de anidacin en conjuncin con el aumento de xito de anidacin para nidos cercanos a nidos de avispas puede (durante varios intentos reproductivos) producir una asocciacin de anidacin entre aves y avispas.
10.2307/40166830|A multispecies colony of seabirds was studied on the island of Genovesa, in the northern part of the Galpagos archipelago, Ecuador, in 2003, to establish baseline health parameters and to test specifically for Chlamydophila psittaci, known to exist elsewhere in the archipelago. Twenty-three Red-footed Boobies (Sula sula), 24 Great Frigatebirds (Fregata minor), 25 Nazca Boobies (S. granti), and 19 Swallow-tailed Gulls (Creagrus furcatus) were hand-restrained for venipuncture and collection of lacrimo-choanal-cloacal combination swabs. White blood cell (WBC) counts, differentials, and packed cell volumes were obtained and plasma chemistry analyses performed on the blood samples. Presence-absence and parasitemias of circulating hemoparasites were determined by microscopic evaluation of peripheral blood smears. Haemoproteus-like hemoparasites were found in three of the seabird species sampled. Prevalences were 29.2% (7 of 24) in Great Frigatebirds, 15.8% (3 of 19) in Swallow-tailed Gulls, and 8.7% (2 of 23) in Red-footed Boobies; none of the Nazca Boobies were infected. Parasitemia levels were relatively low within each of the infected species. Individual Great Frigatebirds with Haemoproteus infections also exhibited significantly higher heterophil-to-lymphocyte concentration ratios than birds not infected with Haemoproteus, an indication that birds infected with Haemoproteus were also physiologically stressed or, alternatively, that they were actively fighting the infection. Haemoproteus prevalences within Great Frigatebirds on Genovesa were not significantly different from those previously reported from conspecific hosts in the Hawaiian Islands. To compare seabird hemoparasite data with those for a sympatric terrestrial species, Galapagos Doves (Zenaida galapagoensis) were sampled on Genovesa in 2004 and screened for Haemoproteus previously reported in Galapagos Doves on other islands. Prevalence in this terrestrial endemic was high (42.3%; 11 of 26), and several birds exhibited relatively high parasitemia levels. Chlamydophila psittaci was not found in any birds by either serology or antigen detection methods. Received 29 August 2005, accepted 8 September 2005. /// Estudiamos una colonia multiespecfica de aves marinas en la isla de Genovesa, en la zona norte del archipilago de las Galpagos en Ecuador, en el ao 2003, para determinar parmetros de salud bsicos y probar particularmente por la presencia de Chlamydophyla psittaci, de la cual se sabe su existencia en el resto del archipilago. Se tomaron muestras de sangre y de exudados combinados cloacales y lagrimo-coanales de 23 Sula sula, 24 Fregata minor, 25 Sula granti y 19 Creagrus furcatus. De las muestras de sangre, se obtuvieron conteos de glbulos blancos, diferenciales y volmenes celulares empaquetados, adems de realizar anlisis qumicos del plasma. La presencia-ausencia y parasitemias de hemoparsitos circulantes fueron determinadas por medio de evaluaciones microscpicas de frotis de sangre perifrica. Hemoparsitos parecidos a Haemoproteus fueron encontrados en tres de las especies de aves marinas muestreadas. Las frecuencias de la presencia de hemoparsitos fue de 29.2% (7 de 24) en Fregata minor, 15.8% (3 de 19) en Creagrus furcatus y 8.7% (2 de 23) en Sula sula; ningn individuo de Sula granti estuvo infectado. Los niveles de parasitemia fueron relativamente bajos en cada una de las especies infectadas. Individuos de Fregata minor infectados con Haemoproteus tambin mostraron proporciones significativamente altas en concentraciones de heterofil a linfocitos en comparacin con las aves no infectadas, lo que indica que las aves infectadas con Haemoproteus tambin estuvieron estresadas fisiolgicamente o tambin pudieron estar luchando activamente la infeccin. Las frecuencias de Haemoproteus en individuos de Fregata minor en la isla de Genovesa no fueron significativamente diferentes de las frecuencias previamente registradas en hospederos con especficos en las islas Hawaianas. Para comparar la informacin de la presencia de Hemoparsitos en aves marinas con datos de especies terrestres simpticas, se muestrearon individuos de Zenaida galapagoensis en la isla de Genovesa en el ano del 2004 y se determino la presencia de Haemoproteus, la cual haba sido reportada previamente en individuos de Zenaida galapagoensis provenientes de otras islas. La frecuencia en esta especie terrestre endmica fue alta (42.3%; 11 de 26) y algunas aves presentaron niveles de parasitemia relativamente altos. Chlamydophyla psittaci no se encontr en ninguna de las aves cuando se utilizaron mtodos de deteccin serolgicos o de antgeno.
10.2307/40168332|Some important man-caused changes in the distributions of Colombian bird populations are discussed. Examination of the changes is based on a preliminary Blue List of 135 species with declining populations. Canopy frugivores dominate the list, followed by terrestrial and aquatic species, respectively. There are proportionately more highland species on the list than lowland species. Two regions, the central Colombian highlands, and the Cauca-Magdalena lowlands contain more declining species than other avifaunal regions. Almost two-thirds of Colombia's endemic species have been placed on the list. Some species have profited from deforestation or other human activities, and these are discussed. /// Se discuten algunos cambios importantes, causados por el hombre, en las distribuciones de poblaciones de aves colombianas. El reconocimiento de los cambios est basado en la Lista Azul preliminar de 135 especies con poblaciones en disminucin. Los frugvoros del tope del bosque dominan la lista, seguidos respectivamente por especies terrestres y acuticas. Proporcionalmente en la lista hay ms especies de tierras altas que de tierras bajas. Dos regiones, las tierras altas del centro de Colombia y las tierras bajas de Cauca-Magdalena, presentan ms especies en disminucin que otras regiones de avifaunas. Casi dos tercios de las especies endmicas de Colombia estn includas en la lista. Se discute tambin la ganancia que obtuvieron otras aves por la deforestacin y otras actividades humanas.
44145285|Distribution of nonbreeding migrant birds in relation to variation in food availability has been hypothesized to result from the interaction of dominance hierarchies and variable movement responses, which together may have sex- and age-specific consequences. We predicted that site fidelity, movements, and abundance of Kirtland's Warblers (Setophaga kirtlandii) wintering on the island of Eleuthera in the Commonwealth of the Bahamas (hereafter "The Bahamas") would be correlated with food abundance but vary by sex and age. We found that the species' food resources (fruits and arthropods) typically declined during a winter but varied between winters (years) and study sites. Rainfall is a driver of variation in fruit abundance, as indicated by an information-theoretic evaluation of abiotic factors that influence fruit abundance. Despite variation in food availability, the proportions of fruits and arthropods in the diet of Kirtland's Warblers (88% of 90 fecal samples with both) varied little within or between winters or with sex or age class. Overwinter site persistence was low and variable among study sites (average = 43%, range: 11-67%); as predicted, site fidelity within and between winters differed by sex (males > females) and age class (adults > juveniles). However, knowledge of only sex and age was insufficient to predict site persistence in a model-selection framework in the absence of other contributing variables from the confidence set of models (i.e., food resources and/or habitat structure) for two model sets. These analyses further indicated that measures of food resources, either foliage arthropods or fruits, were reliable positive predictors of site fidelity, given the respective confidence set of models. Birds that shifted between study sites within a winter moved to sites with higher biomass of ripe fruit and ground arthropods, such that late-winter densities of Kirtland's Warblers were positively related to the biomass of fruits and ground arthropods. Sex and age differences in corrected body mass and fat were significant from midwinter through late winter, consistent with expected outcomes of dominance and experience. Differences in corrected body mass were evident by 16 April, when males had greater corrected mass than females, and by 26 April, when corrected mass of males was greater for adults than for juveniles. Late-winter rain had a positive effect on corrected body mass, corraborating previous Kirtland's Warbler studies that showed carryover effects on the breeding grounds and that survival in the following year was positively correlated with March rainfall in The Bahamas. Given that drought reduces the food resources and body condition of Kirtland's Warblers in The Bahamas, which negatively affects survival and breeding of Kirtland's Warblers in North America, conservation efforts in the Bahamas archipelago should focus on protecting the least-drought-prone early-successional habitats and sites with favored fruit species. La distribucin de aves migratorias no reproductivas en relacin a la variacin en la disponibilidad de alimento est siendo hipotetizada como un resultado de la interaccin de las jerarquas de dominancia y las respuestas de movimientos variables, que conjuntamente pueden tener consecuencias especificas con la edad y sexo. Predecimos que la fidelidad al sitio de invernada, los movimientos y la abundancia de las reinitas de Kirtland (Setophaga kirtlandii) invernando en la isla de Eleuthera en las Bahamas podran estar correlacionadas con la abundancia de alimento, pero varan por sexo y edad. Encontramos que la abundancia de recursos alimenticios de la especie (frutos y artrpodos) disminuy durante un invierno, pero no entre inviernos (aos) y sitios de estudio. La precipitacin es un impulsor de la variacin en la abundancia de frutos, como es indicada por la evaluacin de la informacin terica de los factores abiticos que influyen en la abundancia de alimento. A pesar de la variacin en la disponibilidad de alimento, las proporciones de frutos y artrpodos en la dieta de las reinitas de Kirtland (88% de 90 muestras fecales con ambos tipos de alimentos) variaron poco dentro y entre inviernos, o con sexos o clases de edad. La persistencia al sitio durante el invierno fue baja y variable entre sitios (promedio = 43%, rango = 11-67%); tal como fue predicho en este estudio, la fidelidad al sitio dentro y entre inviernos vario entre sexos (machos > hembras) y clases de edad (adultos > juveniles). Sin embargo, el conocimiento de solo el sexo y edad fue insuficiente para predecir la persistencia al sitio en un esquema de seleccin de modelos en ausencia de otras variables de un grupo de modelos confiables (i.e., recursos alimenticios y/o estructura del hbitat) para dos grupos de modelos. Estos anlisis adems indicaron que las mediciones de recursos alimenticios, ya sean artrpodos de follaje o frutos fueron predictores positivos confiables, dada las respectivas confiabilidades de los modelos. Las aves que cambiaron entre sitios de estudio dentro de un invierno se movieron hacia sitios con mayor biomasa de frutos maduros y artrpodos del suelo, as que las densidades al final del invierno de reinitas Kirtland fueron positivamente correlacionadas con la biomasa de frutos y artrpodos del suelo. Las diferencias de sexo y edad en masa corporal corregida y grasa fueron significativas desde mediados hasta finales de invierno, consistente con los resultados esperados de dominancia y experiencia. Diferencias en masa corporal corregida fueron evidentes hacia el 16 de abril, cuando los machos presentaron mayor masa corporal corregida que las hembras, y el 26 de abril, cuando la masa corporal corregida de adultos fue mayor que los juveniles. La precipitacin al final de invierno tuvo un efecto positivo sobre la masa corporal corregida, corroborando los estudios previos de la especie, que mostraron efectos de arrastre en los cuarteles de invierno, y que la supervivencia en el ao siguiente fue positivamente correlacionada con la precipitacin de marzo en las Bahamas. Dado que la sequa reduce los recursos alimenticios y condicin corporal de las reinitas Kirtland en las Bahamas, este factor tambin afecta negativamente la supervivencia y reproduccin de esta especie en Norteamrica. Los esfuerzos de conservacin en el archipilago de Bahamas deben enfocarse en la proteccin de los habitats de sucesin temprana menos susceptibles a las sequas y los sitios con mayor riqueza de especies de frutos.
10.2307/40157570|Melbourne Armstrong Carriker, Jr. (1879-1965) traveled and collected birds and mallophaga in Central America and South America from Colombia to Bolivia. He collected more than 53,000 bird specimens and described many new species and subspecies from his collections. From 1934-1938 he worked in Bolivia, and afterwards wrote a manuscript of his adventures and travails that was never published. I have excerpted sections of that manuscript describing travel on the rivers, and work in the Andes and Chaco. /// Melbourne Armstrong Carriker, Jr. (1879-1965) viaj y colect ejemplares de aves y de mallaphagos en Amrica Central y tambien en Amrica Sur, de Colombia a Bolivia. Obtuv mas de 53,000 muestras de aves, y de sus colecciones describi muchas especies y subespecies nuevas. Desde 1934-1938, Carriker trabaj en Bolivia y despus escribi sus aventuras, pero el manuscrito nunca fue publicado. Yo he extraido partes del manuscrito describiendo viajes por los rios bolivianos, y trabajos en los Andes y chaco boliviano.
10.2307/40168277|Coeligena torquata eisenmanni, a new race of the Collared Inca hummingbird, is described from mid-elevation cloud forest in the northern Cordillera Vilcabamba, a front-range of the Andes in south-central Peru. Its plumage pattern and its geographic range provide a link between the northern, white-banded torquata subspecies group and the southern, rufous-banded inca group, confirming the conspecificity of the two groups. Lowlands of the Ro Apurmac valley form a barrier between C. t. eisenmanni and the neighboring race to the west and northwest, C. t. insectivora. /// Se describe una nueva raza de picaflor inca de collar, Coeligena torquata eisenmanni, que ha sido encontrado en el bosque de neblinas de elevacin mediana en el norte de la cordillera de Vilcabamba, la cual forma parte de la cordillera de los Andes en el centro-sur del Per. Las caractersticas de su plumaje as como su rango de distribucin la enlazan con las subespecies del grupo torquata del norte, de banda blanca, y con el grupo austral inca, de banda rojiza, confirmando de esta manera la conespecificidad ("conspecificity") de los dos grupos. Las tierras bajas del valle del ro Apurmac forman la barrera entre C. t. eisenmanni y C. t. insectivora, la raza vecina hacia el oeste y noroeste.
