40606439|A complex variety of marginal-marine microtidal environments from Kouchibouguac Bay, New Brunswick, Canada, present an opportunity to ichnologically and sedimentologically characterize microtidal settings in a high-latitude, temperate subarctic climate. Variations in bioturbate fabrics and distribution of infauna, analysis of the distributions of sediments and physical sedimentary structures, and the distribution of total organic carbon (TOC) can be associated with characteristic depositional processes. From these data typical sedimentary facies associations are produced. In outer estuary tidal inlets and areas of the flood-tidal deltas, strong currents and wave action eradicate the ichnological signature, resulting in variably laminated and bedded sand.In the central estuary, infauna activity coupled with generally low hydraulic energy levels lead to an absence of primary sedimentary structures. The inner estuary near bay-head deltas experiences riverine currents and freshwater influence. As a consequence, primary sedimentary structures are preserved. Mapping of infauna, sediment texture, TOC, and salinity reveals strong links between animal distribution and these three physicochemical parameters. Consequently, the distribution and type of bioturbation observed is at least passively related to grain size, TOC, and salinity. In outer estuaries and lower-central estuaries, salinity is near marine levels and fluctuates minimally. The distribution of infauna in these areas corresponds directly to sediment texture and TOC. Further up the estuaries, lower and fluctuating salinitiesin addition to sediment texture and TOC content control the distribution and diversity of infauna. Mapping of diversity and infaunal size up-estuary reveals two significant trends attributable to salinity stresses: (1) vermiform diminution, and (2) a significant decrease in infaunal diversity.
3515841|The consistency of taphonomic data collected by multiple operators in taphofacies studies is examined in order to determine if the employment of multiple operators is an acceptable way of generating the large amount of data required in taphofacies studies. Through two exercises designed to train operators in scoring taphofacies data, the consistency/repeatability of scoring data in the damage categories commonly used in taphofacies analysis was examined. The results of these tests seem to indicate that using multiple operators within a single study introduces vast amounts of inconsistency into the data. Most troubling is that consistency among operators in their scoring is so low that any attempt at comparing the results between studies by different authors would seem destined to encounter tremendous variation in the scoring of taphonomic data and not be feasible. Closer examination of the causes of the inconsistency among the operators, however, suggests that, with increased experience and a clear understanding of the definitions being employed, these problems should be reduced greatly. Based on this work, it is recommended that any taphonomic study making use of multiple operators first use a series of exercises in order to minimize the tremendous amount of error possible if consistent operators are not identified and used. While this work has focused on taphofacies studies and multiple operators, the results and recommendations presented here likely are relevant to many biological and paleontological studies that employ multiple operators.
27670336|Abundant columns of Isselicrinus ariakensis occur in a limited interval of the Upper Eocene Sakasegawa Formation in western Japan. Most of these are several centimeters in length, but curiously they usually stand upright, perpendicular to the bedding plane of the mudstone, and occur as bundles of 2 to 10 columns, with their original distal parts oriented downward. Based on detailed observation of the modes of occurrence as well as on CT scanning of the specimens, a reconstruction of the presumed mode of life is presented. The individuals of Isselicrinus adopted a relay strategy in the muddy substrate, using pre-existing upright columns as anchorage. Similar upright columns of Isselicrinus are also found, or have been reported, from other Eocene and Miocene strata in Japan, Argentina, and Denmark, suggesting that these Isselicrinus adopted this specialized mode of life as an adaptation to muddy bottoms.
10.2307/3514963| The Upper Triassic Chinle Formation was deposited at an exceptional time in Earth's paleogeographic and paleoclimatic history. During the Triassic, the supercontinent Pangaea was at its greatest size, in terms of both aggregated continental crust and exposed land area. Moreover, the exposed land was divided symmetrically about the paleoequator between the northern and southern hemispheres. These conditions were ideal for maximizing monsoonal circulation, as predicted from paleoclimate models. The Chinle was deposited between about 5to 15N paleolatitude in the western equatorial region of Pangaea, a key area for documenting the effects of the monsoonal climate. This study summarizes sedimentologic and paleontologic data from the Chinle Formation on the Colorado Plateau and integrates that data with paleoclimatic models. The evidence for abundant moisture and seasonality attest to the reversal of equatorial flow and support the hypothesis that the Triassic Pangaean climate was dominated by monsoonal circulation. The Chinle Formation contains continental lithofacies deposited in fluvial channels, crevasse splays, lakes, bogs, marshes, and lacustrine deltas that reflect abundant precipitation and shallow water tables. Paleosols and ichnofossils indicate that water tables and lake levels fluctuated episodically. Interbedded lacustrine carbonates and marginal-lacustrine siltstones and mudstones indicate longer-term but regular, episodic fluctuations in lake level. Fine-scale laminations in lacustrine carbonates suggest a seasonal influx of clastic sediment, and thus precipitation, to the basin. Uppermost Chinle strata consist of lacustrine and marginal-lacustrine mudstones interbedded with minor eolian sand sheets and eolian dunes; thus, the later Triassic reflects continued precipitation, but was marked by more pronounced and extended dry seasons. The Chinle fossil record corroborates the paleoclimatic interpretation based on sedimentologic data. The flora is consistent with moist, rather humid conditions, at least in the vicinity of fluvial channels and ponds, where most of the known plants were preserved by rapid sedimentation and burial below the water table. Invertebrates include fluvial and lacustrine unionid bivalves, gastropods, conchostracans, and ostracodes. Widespread occurrence of large unionids indicates perennial streams and lakes. Freshwater bivalves and gastropods provide evidence for seasonal climates on the basis of their ecological requirements, taphonomic occurrences, and growth banding preserved within unionid bivalve shells. A wide variety of actinopterygian fish are present, as well as isolated taxa of hybodont sharks, dipnoans, and coelacanths. The large coelacanths require the presence of perennial fluvial and/or lacustrine systems. The tetrapod fauna is dominated by aquatic forms, notably metoposaurid amphibians, and phytosaurian archosaurs; terrestrial archosaurs and synapsids are more poorly represented quantitatively. Vertebrate taphonomy and the nature of skeletal preservation also provide evidence of seasonality during Chinle deposition. 
10.2307/3515278|In situ concretions are important sources of fossil mammals in the Sucker Creek Formation (middle Miocene) in southeastern Oregon. Three discrete mammal-bearing concretion horizons occur within a 20-m volcanogenic paleosol sequence in the Devil's Gate area. Approximately 35% of collected concretions contain visually discernible bone. Concretions may also contain root casts or inorganic nuclei (e.g., pumice clasts, volcanic clays); or may be internally homogenous. The concretions themselves are mineralogically distinct from marine-derived concretion types (i.e., siderite and calcium carbonate) that more commonly preserve vertebrate remains, such as fish and sharks. Energy dispersive spectrometry (EDS), X-ray diffraction, and Microprobe techniques were used to infer geochemical interactions that occurred between bone and enclosing volcaniclastics during early concretion diagenesis. Both concentrations and distributions of chemical phases and minerals have been used to suggest that the following events occurred during their development: (1) partial dissolution of bone hydroxyapatite by groundwater and diffusion into adjacent volcaniclastic material; (2) filling of bone voids by calcite, quartz, hematite, and zeolites; (3) development of a porous fabric around the bone by the precipitation of dissolved bone hydroxyapatite, seeded by inorganically derived hydroxyapatite and calcic zeolites derived from volcanic ash; (4) deposition of a secondary zeolite fabric into voids of the dominant fabric; and (5) development of bentonitic clays around concretions during pedogenesis. Although some superficial bone was consumed during concretion diagenesis, relatively fast concretion development in this volcanic environment reduced the chance of prolonged chemical and physical destruction during later soil development. Consequently, bone-volcaniclastic interactions played an important role in the preservation of large mammal skeletal remains and rare skeletal elements of small mammals.
3515658|Taxon-specific stable carbon-isotope ratios were determined for 7 graptolite (consumer) and 4 alga (primary producer) taxa preserved as thin organic compressions within North American Silurian Konservat-Lagerstetten. Values range from -26.6<tex-math>$\textperthousand$</tex-math> for a graptolite from the Goat Island Formation, New York, to -32.3<tex-math>$\textperthousand$</tex-math> for an alga from the Cape Phillips Formation, Arctic Canada. Co-occurring graptolite taxa display nearly identical <sup>13</sup>C compositions (within 0.2<tex-math>$\textperthousand$</tex-math>). Algal taxa co-occurring with graptolite taxa have <sup>13</sup>C compositions which are 1-2<tex-math>$\textperthousand$</tex-math> more negative than those of associated graptolites. The observed isotopic offset between associated graptolites and macroalgae, both of which are common sources of organic matter in Paleozoic strata, holds implications for the interpretation of time-series <sup>13</sup>C<sub>org</sub> curves, and suggests that stable carbon-isotope composition could serve as a chemosystematic tool for discerning the affinities of organic macrofossil problematica.
10.2307/3515551|The sensitivity of taphonomic signatures to a battery of common sampling and analytic procedures is tested here using modern bivalve death assemblages from the San Blas Archipelago, Caribbean Panama, to determine (a) the magnitude of methodological artifacts and, thus, the comparability of taphofacies patterns among studies; and (b) the most efficient and robust means for acquiring damage profiles (taphonomic signatures) of death assemblages both ancient and modern. Damage frequency distributions do not stabilize below sample sizes of 120-150 individuals. Using damage to the >8 mm portion of the assemblage as a baseline (interior damage only, fragments included), it is found that qualitative trends among environments (higher damage levels in reefal skeletal gravel versus mud) and the rank-order importance of taphonomic variables per environment (intensity of damage from encrustation, boring, fine-scale alteration, edge-rounding, fragmentation) are robust to most methodological decisions. The exception is the use of target taxa: of three genera tested, only one was sensitive to the same suite of environmental differences as the total-assemblage, and taxa had disparate rank-ordering of variables. In contrast to the general robustness of qualitative trends, quantitative damage levels are affected significantly by methodology. Specifically, the measured frequency of damage is generally lower for finer size fractions and finer sieve sizes, for whole shells versus fragments, for taxonomically well-resolved specimens, for infaunal versus epifaunal species regardless of mineralogy, and for interior surfaces versus exterior or total surface area of shells. Full frequency-distribution data on states of taphonomic damage are most powerful for differentiating samples, but if single-value metrics are desired, the frequency of high-intensity damage is more powerful-and shows less between-operator variance-than presence-absence data or average damage state. To maximize the detection of damage and of between-environment differences in taphonomic signature, and to foster between-study comparisons, the following are recommended: (1) analysis of discrete size-fractions rather than broad spectra and, in particular, the separate treatment of coarse size fractions (>4 mm); (2) examination of complete assemblages (fragments as well as whole specimens; all species or broad subsets of species rather than select taxa); (S) variables scored independently (e.g., encrustation v. boring) rather than grouped into summary grades; and (4) evaluation of rank-ordering of variables in plots of threshold damage profiles as a complement to ternary taphograms.
10.2307/3514812|Biostratinomic information from the bryozoan Archimedes can be used to infer paleocurrent "senses" when other more traditional sedimentary structures are lacking. As with other elongate particles, Archimedes zooaria become oriented in the current and, upon settling, preserve a sense of the flow direction. Orientations and lengths were measured on over 200 individuals from bedding plane exposures in the Upper Mississippian Union Limestone (Green-brier Group) of West Virginia. These were separated into long and short populations and plotted on rose diagrams. The results show that long and short segments become preferentially oriented in the current and the bimodally distributed long segments can be used to infer the current sense. The current sense is defined by the line which bisects the obtuse angle created by the two maxima in the rose diagram for long segments. Statistical evaluation of the long and short populations indicate they are significant to the 99.9 percent level. Elongate fossils such as Archimedes can be used in paleocurrent evaluations and can add more detail to the interpretation of paleodepositional conditions.
20172997|Post-eruptive lacustrine sediments that infill a Middle Eocene kimberlitic diatreme near Lac de Gras (Northwest Territories, Canada) have spectacular preservation of diatom microfossils. A single undiagnosed species belonging to the genus Aulacoseira is abundant in this material and reveals, in addition to the full complement of siliceous structures comprising the frustule, an array of soft parts that hitherto have been unavailable for study in diatoms of this age. These features include the velar complex, which lines the interior of valves, layered internal membranes, lamellate plastid fragments with pyrenoid-like inclusions, and extracellular mucilagenous bodies. Both ultrastructural and cytoplasmic characters have pronounced affinities with extant congeneric taxa, with an especially close resemblance to the resting cells observed in living Aulacoseira. These observations suggest that modern cellular organization and associated ecological adaptations were present early in the history of nonmarine aulacoseiroid diatoms, implying that prolonged evolutionary stasis has characterized the ecologically important genus Aulacoseira.
10.2307/3515539|A -<tex-math>$1.5\textperthousand$</tex-math> to -<tex-math>$2\textperthousand$</tex-math> carbon isotope excursion immediately above the clay layer that defines the Cretaceous-Tertiary (K/ T) boundary has been reported in marine sediments world wide. This paper reports a similar -<tex-math>$1.5\textperthousand$</tex-math>to -<tex-math>$2.8\textperthousand$</tex-math> carbon isotope excursion recorded by C3 land plants from three temporally-controlled, stratigraphically-constrained terrestrial sections in the Western Interior of North America (Garfield County, Montana, and Slope County, North Dakota). Carbon isotope measurements of bulk sedimentary organic carbon were well-correlated with those of isolated plant cuticle, suggesting that the terrestrial organic carbon signature in these sediments parallels that of plant cuticle. Carbon isotope signatures were also independent of rock type and depositional environment, showing that the carbon isotope signature of plants, although altered, is not biased taphonomically. Because the signature in terrestrial facies records the isotope composition of paleoatmospheric CO<sub>2</sub>, this record-combined with that from marine sections-offers additional insight into changes in carbon cycling underlying the K/T negative carbon isotope excursion. For example, radiometric age determinations from the Hell Creek Road locality in Montana bracket the atmospheric carbon isotopic recovery between 65.00  0.05 Ma and 65.16  0.04 Ma. This reflects a more rapid recovery for the terrestrial biosphere than for that of the marine realm, perhaps due to lower extinction rates in land plants than in marine primary producers.
27670326|The Middle Devonian (Emsian/Eifelian) Trout Valley Formation is exposed in the northeastern corner of Baxter State Park, Maine, and is noted for its abundant plant-fossil assemblages. However, to date no invertebrate macrofaunal assemblages have been reported in this fluvial-to-marine sequence; only isolated eurypterid parts have been reported. A previously undescribed outcrop of coarse- to medium-grained siltstone characterized by megaripples preserves a restricted, transported invertebrate assemblage. The macrofossils are randomly oriented and concentrated in the ripple crests. Similar sedimentological features in other parts of the stratigraphic section indicate an estuarine, tidally influenced depositional regime. The fossil assemblage is dominated by Phthonia sectifronsan uncommon Devonian bivalve known previously from open-marine deposits. Few other fossil taxa occur. Typically associated with deep-shelf brachiopods, the presence of P. sectifrons in these estuarine deposits indicates that this taxon occupied a wider range of habitats, extending from the shallow silty shelf facies to more transitional settings. The facies associations in the Trout Valley Formation suggest that Devonian near-shore communities resembled modern bivalve-dominated near-shore communities.
25835597|The late Paleozoic ice age (LPIA) began in the Mississippian period (Visean-Serpukhovian) and is associated with a global mass extinction. This study examines how the development of high-amplitude glacioeustasy at the start of the LPIA affected the taxonomic richness and ecologic diversity of tropical marine macro-invertebrate assemblages from the Illinois Basin (United States). Rarefaction and faunal turnover analyses reveal that regional taxonomic and guild richness persist nearly unchanged across the inferred onset of the LPIA and through multiple glacioeustatic cycles spanning a total duration of 3 to 5 myr. In addition, low levels of taxonomic turnover characterize the LPIA transition and subsequent glacioeustatic cycles; 76% to 92% of pre-LPIA taxa persist into the ice age where they account for 63% to 75% of LPIA taxa. Thus, the onset of high-amplitude glacioeustasy was not a main driver of regional biotic change or extinction in the Illinois Basin at the start of the LPIA. Potential mechanisms for the regional persistence of taxonomic diversity and faunal composition despite major glacioeustasy include habitat tracking and an immigration rescue effect, where localized extinction is balanced by immigration of taxa from nearby areas. Finally, evidence from this and other studies of late Paleozoic faunal turnover suggest that persistence, not change, is the normal biotic response to high-amplitude glacioeustasy during the LPIA.
10.2307/3514905|The fabric of often intensely mottled, upper offshore to lower shoreface siliciclastic sediments of post-Paleozoic age is analyzed and the principal trace described from material collected from outcrop (U.K.) and the North Sea Basin (core). The characteristic trace of these mottled zones is Anconichnus horizontalis, which is a narrow, discontinuous, twisting, muddy fecal string within a poorly defined burrow fill depleted in mud and inertinite. This trace formed endogenically, principally in association with small-scale cross-stratification and thin (cm) event beds. Seven taphonomic-sediment associations (ichnofabrics) are recognized: 1, In siltstone to very fine-grained sandstone in thin (cm) event beds, often as the only trace; 2, In association with small-scale cross-stratification; 3, In dense concentrations in fine-grained sediment where the primary structures have been obscured; 4, Similar to (3) but with a patchy distribution of the trace; 5, Siltstone to very fine-grained sandstone, often associated with heterolithic stratification, with a higher ichnodiversity, including Phoebichnus, Palaeophycus, Thalassinoides, Rhizocorallium, Cylindrichnus and Diplocraterion; 6, As (3) but with muddy patches and sand-filled Chondrites sp.; 7, Mud dominated, with silty horizons and associated with Terebellina. Associations 1 to 4 were produced by opportunistic shallow tier burrowers penecontemporaneous with deposition of mud-depleted event beds in an offshore environment. Association 5, with diverse, later mid-tier burrowers, suggests a more equilibrium endobenthic community in aggrading sedimentation conditions, under fair weather, in the offshore transition zone to lower shoreface, while associations 6 and 7 indicated muddier offshore situations. Although Anconichnus horizontalis is often assigned to Helminthopsis in the literature, a detailed ichnotaxonomic review of Helminthopsis and similar burrows confirms that the burrow's mantle, discontinuous fecal core and non-planar aspect justify its referral to A. horizontalis.
3515673|Backscattered electron imaging of fossils exceptionally-preserved as organic compressions reveals anatomical details that are not evident either under incident light or in secondary electron images. The method can be used to differentiate between anatomical features that are superimposed, lack relief and compressed essentially to a single plane. In situ observation is possible, removing the need to liberate the fossil from the matrix by either chemical or physical means, both of which have their limitations. Fossils exceptionally preserved, at least in part, as organic compressions are characteristic of a large number of Konservat Lagersttten, and the method has significant potential for elucidating aspects of their morphology.
40960989|The Late Ordovician Taconic orogeny was associated with volcanic eruptions along the subduction zones of the Iapetus Ocean. One of these eruptions, which led to the deposition of the Deicke K-bentonite Bed, is believed to have been larger than the largest recent and subrecent volcanic eruptions (e.g., Toba, Pinatubo). The Deicke eruption has been proposed to have led to a cooling event and associated faunal turnover during the Sandbian-Katian of Laurentia based in part on the observed lowering of global surface temperature after recent mega-eruptions. We tested for a geologically resolvable climatic perturbation associated with the Deicke eruption by estimating changes in ocean temperatures from the oxygen isotope ratios of single-species separates of conodont apatite from a section of the Carimona Member of the Platteville Formation in southeastern Minnesota, United States, that includes the Deicke Kbentonite. In contrast to predictions of models invoking more or less direct volcanic forcing for Ordovician climate trends, we found no obvious or consistent change in temperature at or above the bentonite, but did see evidence of cooling (~4 C) among presumed nekto-benthic taxa in the 0.7 meters of the section below the bentonite. Thus, at least for the study area, there is no evidence that the Deicke eruption induced a significant cooling event.
10.2307/3515619|An exhumed Pliocene estuarine sequence is preserved in exquisite detail in the Quinault Formation of coastal western Washington. The thick fill of the Quinault estuarine basin (~700 m) represents a single transgressive-regressive system that was punctuated by subduction-related tectonic events, and may reflect erosion and sediment accumulation during accelerated uplift of the Olympic Mountains in the Pliocene. Sedimentation patterns in the ancient Quinault estuary were influenced strongly both by floods on the paleo-Quinault River, and by storm waves on the high-energy, open Pacific coast. Body fossils were derived from both marine and brackish faunal elements. Trace fossil suites indicate that the benthos flourished in the fluctuating physicochemical conditions of an estuary in dynamic equilibrium. An estuarine-specific trace fossil, a new ichnospecies of Psilonichnus that is attributed to burrows of the mud shrimp Upogebia pugettensis, is restricted to inlet-mouth, muddy sandstone facies. The marine-marginal marine transition is well-preserved in Quinault estuarine strata (exposed in the Point Grenville and Cape Elizabeth areas), as evidenced by: (1) distinctive sedimentologic signatures characteristic of lower shoreface, estuarine mouth, central basin, tidal creek / flat, and fluvial subenvironments; and, (2) systematic changes in trace fossil associations in the up-estuary direction, from Skolithos ichnofacies elements to a mixed Skolithos-Cruziana assemblage to Glossifungites associations with rhizome phytoburbation. Hence, Quinault strata record a classic tripartite division of an ancient estuarine system, allowing a fine-scale delineation of subenvironments in an active tectonic regime.
10.2307/3515382|To reconstruct a late Paleocene (Tiffanian) vegetation, we intensively sampled and censused plant megafossils of the Fort Union Formation from Bison Basin, Wyoming. Extensive sampling of this deposit at the local scale was undertaken to assess the species richness and spatial distribution of leaf megafossils in a well-dated Paleocene assemblage. The megafossils were recovered from a series often quarries in a single fossiliferous horizon composed of fine-grained clay stone that represents deposition in a shallow floodplain pond. Early and middle Paleocene leaf localities from the northern Great Plains are typically depauperate; this deposit was no exception, yielding only 28 distinct leaf morphotypes from a collection of 5,650 specimens (average: 10.6 morphotypes / quarry). Significant differences in the numbers of specimens per morphotype were observed. Four species, Corylites sp. (37.66%), Archeampelos acerifolia (33.93%), Metasequoia occidentalis (18.35%), and Fortuna cf. F. marsilioides (5.29%) comprised >95% of the specimens recovered. Megafloral dominants were fairly consistent from quarry to quarry indicating that this vegetation was relatively homogeneous at the scale of the local community. Detrended Correspondence Analysis indicates that there is no environmental gradient apparent within this community. This extremely well-sampled and laterally extensive leaf site supports the view that the late Paleocene (Tiffanian) flora of the northern Rockies is depauperate compared to megafloras of the Late Cretaceous and late Paleocene (Clarkforkian).
27670597|It has recently been proposed that the northern Adriatic shelf is a living laboratory in which to test the causes of the evolutionary shift from Paleozoic-like, stationary suspension feeders on the sediment surface to modern, infauna-dominated assemblages. The suggestion is that today's "Paleozoic" ecosystems, composed of a modern fauna, are a regular feature in environments of low nutrient levels and predation intensity. We, however, argue that a high-biomass epifauna is not restricted to oligotrophic settings in the northern Adriatic Sea and that predation intensities are instead at Mediterranean levels, which are neither pre-Cenozoic nor similar to those at high latitudes. Environmental requirements of modern, suspension-feeding epifauna do not support the low-nutrient hypothesis, and we suggest that this striking epifauna depends on the presence of stable hard substrata on the seafloor, is very sensitive to sediment input by flood events and storm-induced sediment resuspension, and is related to seasonally high productivity. Elevation above the sediment-water interface has the advantage of feeding from higher-tier levels and helps these organisms to survive hypoxia, which is a typical seasonal feature of the Adriatic shelf and of many ancient epeiric seas. We hypothesize therefore that the gradual disapperance of large, epicontinental seas, along with their low sedimentation rates and frequent bottom-water hypoxia during the Mesozoic, supported the replacement of the archaic epifauna by modern, bivalve-dominated infaunas.
10.2307/3515159|The process of bacterial degradation of skeletal-binding organic matter forces selective carbonate dissolution in aerobic and turbulent coarse-grained environments. This is demonstrated in a Scanning Electron Microscope study on the benthic foraminifer Cibicides lobatulus from a coastal platform in northern Norway. High CO<sub>2</sub> partial pressures are created by rod-shaped bacteria colonies under the protective extracellular polymer surface (EPS) film. The impact of degradative bacteria on biogenic carbonates is strongly controlled by a) the microstructural composition of the infested particles, and b) the distribution and supply of organic compounds on and within the skeletal construction. Both factors have strong influences on variations in rates of decay, biasing fossil preservation. In aerobic systems, carbonate dissolution may be regarded as a metabolic by-product through bacterial-induced decomposition of skeletal-binding organic matter. This study supports the increasing amount of evidence pointing to carbonate dissolution and maceration phenomena from shelf environments, especially from cold sea environments, and stresses microbial input in early diagenesis.
3515772|The Tres Esquinas Member of the La Luna Formation is a glauconite-rich phosphorite unit associated with changes that took place in depositional environments in the Maracaibo Basin at the end of the Late Cretaceous. The unit marks the end of La Luna Formation sedimentary cycle. This paper presents results of petrographic studies of samples from two sections, one outcrop (Ro Guaruries), and one well core (Perij), and from seismic profiles across the Perij and Coln areas in the Maracaibo Basin. The Tres Esquinas Member is three meters thick in both locations. In the Ro Guaruries outcrop, it contains an abundant foraminiferal fauna in addition to common allochemical material. Perij core samples contain voluminous carbonate matrix, scarce allochemical materials, rare foraminifera, and poor definition of mineral facies, which may reflect higher-energy conditions on the sea floor. The deposition of the Tres Esquinas Member resulted from altered sea-floor topography during an episode of intense tectonic activity in the eastern part of the Maracaibo Basin. The modified shelf configuration ended anoxic conditions on the sea floor and led to increased erosion characteristic of the Tres Esquinas Member.
10.2307/3515529|A unique aquatic arthropod Konservat Lagersttte occurs in lacustrine-derived carbonate concretions within the Miocene Barstow Formation of southern California. Faunal elements are primarily aquatic, salinity-tolerant, autochthonous predaceous diving beetle larvae, fly larvae and pupae, mosquito and thrip larvae, and fairy shrimp. Three-dimensional preservation of soft tissues is via replacement by silica-based minerals as well as calcite, celestite, apatite, and gypsum. The fauna occurs in three beds (each 1-3 m thick) within an approximately 100 m sequence of predominantly microlaminated mudstone deposited in a saline-alkaline lacustrine environment. Faunal composition is consistent between sites and concretion beds, but faunal composition and diversity changed significantly during lake history, corresponding to differences in brine chemistry as well as preservational fades, resulting from the shift toward a more nearshore regime. The changes in lake chemistry and subsequent changes in fauna indicate lake shallowing as well as regional and global climate change towards greater aridity during the Miocene that also is coincident with regional uplift.
10.2307/3514592|The oldest conifer compressions and permineralized remains from North America, which are assignable to Walchia Sternberg, are found in strata of Westphalian C and D ages in the central Colorado trough of Colorado, the Nemaha highlands of Oklahoma, and the central Appalachian basin. These early conifer occurrences are consistent with dry conditions in Colorado and less dry or wet-dry, better drained, more oxidizing upland conditions in the central Appalachian basin, possibly technically controlled, which may have been a prelude to a widespread climatic change in Stephanian or Permian time in North America.
10.2307/3515370|Models of the ecological succession of encrusting organisms in the Recent coralline-algal reefs from Atol das Rocas (South Atlantic, Brazil) are presented for a windward and a leeward transect. These models are constructed on probability calculations that use the relative frequencies of upward (overgrowing) transitions (succession) of observed pairings of reef-framework builders. These are taken from blocks excavated across a reef-front/reef-crest/reef-flat section in the windward transect, and a reef-crest/reef-flat section in the leeward transect. The main substrate available for encrustation is the dominant primary framework-building coralline alga Porolithon cf. pachydermum. The diversity (number) and complexity of competitive interactions among encrusters increase from reef-front and reef-crest to reef-flat in both transects. Vermetid gastropods and homotrematid and acervulinid foraminiferans are the most important secondary framework builders in the surveyed reefs. The proposed successional models present an account of the operation of competitive processes over time and space, providing further evidence of a non-hierarchical pattern of competition for space. Changes in reef-framework succession along the reef transects are controlled by extrinsic factors. However, intrinsic factors are likely to be the main control of the succession when windward and leeward reef-flat environments are compared. Finally, reef-framework successional models derived from transition-probability matrices can be used to investigate paleoenvironmental gradients (such as wave energy) in preserved frameworks from ancient reefs and to understand reef-community structure based on the succession of encrusting epibionts.
27670412|Branch diameters within some species of sponges, corals, and bryozoans are known to decrease with depth. This relationship is here tested for inferring relative depth of deposition using three ramose, bushlike cyclostome bryozoansCinctipora elegans, Diaperoecia purpurascens, and Erksonea sp.that are abundant on the continental shelf around New Zealand. Diameters were measured in broken branches of these species dredged from 15 benthic stations ranging in depth from 38-668 m. The expected inverse correlation between diameter and depth was apparent only in C. elegans and even then at a low level of significance and only at relatively shallow depths (<115 m). No depth pattern was discernible in either D. purpurascens or Erksonea sp. Further research is needed to ascertain exactly which depth-related environmental factor(s) influences branch diameter in cyclostome bryozoans and whether different species respond differently before bryozoan branch diameter can be used in paleobathymetry.
10.2307/3515066|The Lewiston Member of the Rochester Shale (Silurian, Wenlockian) of western New York and southern Ontario contains three intervals of echinoderm Lagersttten (Homocrinus beds). These intervals preserve moderate diversity, level-bottom communities dominated by epibenthic suspension feeders. Taphonomic and sedimentologic evidence indicates that these communities, existed in low-energy environments below normal wave base but were episodically disrupted and smothered by distal mud tempestites or gradient current deposits. The most favorable conditions for the preservation of these communities existed at the lower end of storm wave base, where relatively thick distal mud flows were frequently generated but where energy conditions precluded later reworking. These tiered communities were strongly dominated by suspension feeders, including brachiopods, bryozoans and pelmatozoans, which together make up approximately 93% of the preserved fauna. Low-level benthic forms such as brachiopods, fistuliporoid bryozoans, short-stemmed crinoids and edrioasteroids were buried intact, directly attached to shell pavements representing the blanketed seafloor. Disturbance was minimal but included toppling and uprooting of echinoderms and shells and minor disarticulation prior to burial. In contrast, long-stemmed pelmatozoans were buried within sparsely fossiliferous mud layers (up to 5 cm thick) commonly with columns and splayed arms oblique within the burial layers. Preservation of vagrant organisms, such as the asteroid Paleaster, the ophiuroid Protaster and ten genera of trilobites, provides further evidence of rapid and deep burial. In addition, scanning electron microscopy of the mud layers directly overlying smothered assemblages indicates the presence of micrograding and flocculated microfabrics. The Homocrinus intervals record the short-term succession of communities mediated by episodic storm-related sedimentation in low-energy offshore shelf environments. Distinct successional stages or seres are recognized: a) a suite of infaunal deposit feeders, b) low diversity (25-30 species) pioneer Amphistrophia-Dalmanites sere, c) intermediate diversity (35-60 species) Striispirifer sere, and in some cases d) high diversity (60-100 species) bryozoan-pelmatozoan thicket sere. Early seres (a, b) resemble faunal assemblages that typify deeper, dysoxic muddy bottom communities. With increasing diversity, organism interactions and density of species within tiers increased significantly in the Striispirifer association and reached a peak in the bryozoan thickets. However, the absolute vertical height of upper tiers may be as great or greater in the low diversity assemblages. The Homocrinus-bearing Striispirifer-Amphistrophia community and associated communities tracked east-west trending lithofacies belts that shifted position in response to transgressive/regressive pulses during Rochester Shale deposition. Water depth and sedimentation rate appear to have exerted major controls on the level of community development.
10.2307/3515172|Most recent explanations for extinctions have focused on abiotic mechanisms such as climatic change, bolide impact, and eustatic sea-level change. The structure and dynamics of the ecological systems that are responding to these disturbances have generally been overlooked. The internal structure of an ecosystem, especially interdependencies among its components, should strongly influence its response to environmental change, by controlling the degree to which loss of one component can produce additional extinctions. We used percolation theory to model this process, by examining how disturbances propagate among interconnected nodes on lattices. Our models suggest that the magnitude of ecosystem response to disturbance is strongly non-linear. Small disturbances can produce large extinctions and large disturbances small extinctions, depending on the degree of interdependency within the system. Disturbances may act to maintain ecosystems at low levels of overall integration. Paleontological and neontological evidence for long-term ecosystem stability, co-evolutionary interactions, and mass extinction selectivity all emphasize the potential importance of interdependence in ancient and modern ecosystems.
40606495|We report on a large burrow cast with skeletal contents from Lower Triassic strata of the Palingkloof Member of the Balfour Formation, which forms the lowermost portion of the Lystrosaurus Assemblage Zone (LAZ) of South Africa. The burrow cast is similar to large burrow casts previously described from the LAZ that were identified as large-scale Scoyenia domichnia. It is the first large burrow cast from the LAZ found to contain diagnostic fossil bone. The burrow cast is a relatively straight, subhorizontal (inclined ~12), dorsoventrally compressed tube consisting of an entry ramp and living chamber; the entrance to the burrow is not preserved and there is no evidence that the ramp formed a spiral section. The skeletal material comprises a single, partial, disarticulated skeleton of a juvenile animal that can be assigned with confidence to the dicynodont genus Lystrosaurus, Whereas similar large-diameter burrow casts from strata slightly higher in the LAZ have been attributed to Lystrosaurus, we present an alternative hypothesis that a carnivorous tetrapod constructed the burrow. Our preferred hypothesis is supported by the observation that the interred Lystrosaurus skeleton is too small to be the maker of this particular burrow, by the general observation that carnivorous tetrapods construct relatively straight burrows, and by the partial, disarticulated state of the skeleton, which we interpret as the remains of larded prey. We suggest that akidnognathid theriodonts of the genera Moschorhinus or Olivierosuchus, the most conspicuous large predators of the LAZ, were the constructors of large-diameter, subhorizontal burrows.
27670495|Regional correlation of mudrock-siliciclastic units is challenging, largely owing to the apparent featurelessness of fine-grained intervals. This difficulty is multiplied when subsurface correlation is necessary for paleogeographic reconstruction. In this study, faunal-marker tracing and limestone-pattern matching have permitted subsurface correlation of the Alexandria submember of the Kope Formation (Edenian Stage, Upper Ordovician) over a 193-km transect in southwest Ohio. The faunal markers are thin (<10 cm), widespread deposits of skeletal debris exhibiting faunal associations, degrees of preservation, or both, that distinguish them from other fossil deposits in host mudrocks. Subsurface correlations corroborate interpretations of southwest Ohio paleogeography and demonstrate the usefulness of techniques presented here. Geographic trends in the data indicate that the average seafloor slope over much of the Cincinnati region was near zero. Evidence also indicates a northwest-dipping paleoslope approximately normal to the study transect; this is likely a transition from the Kope environment into the Sebree Trough, a narrow basin with poorly understood morphology. A change from limestone-rich to limestone-poor facies, accompanied by replacement of oxic by dysoxic fauna, takes place over a maximum distance of 40 km between two localities along the transect. This represents improved constraint on the KopeSebree Trough boundary.
3515696|Sedimentary models that apply to the Middle Miocene succession in Amazonia are controversial. Although tidally-influenced sedimentary deposits have been described from several locations, the identification of brackish-water or marine facies has been hampered by limited outcrop exposure. Also, ichnological data largely have been ignored. This study focuses on ichnological and sedimentological relationships observed in outcropping strata of the Solimoes Formation (Middle Miocene) along the Acre River in western Brazil and northern Bolivia. The studied strata comprise a fine-grained lower unit that is sharply overlain by dipping, interbedded sands and muds, known as inclined heterolithic stratification (IHS). The IHS is present throughout the length of the outcrop, about 80m. The outcropping strata are interpreted to represent two depositional subenvironments: (1) A lower unit that resulted from sediment accumulation in a shallow, restricted, subaqueous depositional environment. The deposit ultimately became emergent with subsequent paleosol development. (2) An upper unit dominated by marginal marine point-bar deposits that developed in a channel. Trace fossils observed in the upper unit provide evidence that mesohaline waters occupied the channel at the time of sediment accumulation. This is supported most strongly by the presence of Scolicia, a common marine trace fossil, and reburrowed (composite) Ophiomorpha The resultant ichnofabric represents a response to sedimentary events that demonstrates the IHS beds reflect seasonal or annual cyclicity. The analysis of the river-exposed outcrop at Boca de Santa Pedro, Brazil, leads to four conclusions: (1) the IHS exposed in the upper portion of this deposit are possibly tidally influenced and almost certainly accumulated in a brackish-water channel; (2) if IHS are bioturbated, their temporal significance can be assessed; (3) seasonal fluctuations in discharge were significant enough to alter depositional and biological processes in this paleochannel, and; (4) brackish-water incursion into Amazonia during the Middle Miocene can be traced as far south as northern Bolivia.
10.2307/3515628| The Cretaceous Two Medicine Formation of northwestern Montana has yielded blocky, calcareous coprolites that contain abundant fragments of conifer wood and were produced by large herbivorous dinosaurs. The coprolites are generally dark gray to black in color due to a dark substance confined chiefly within what originally were the capillaries of tracheid and ray cells of xylem. This substance is a kerogen that consists in part of thin-walled vesicles 0.1-1.3 m in diameter. Pyrolysis products of this kerogen are diagnostic of a bacterial origin with a possible contribution from terrestrial plants. The vesicular component is interpreted as the residue of bacterial cells, whereas a second filamentous component, closely associated with the vesicles, may be the residue of an extracellular binding material, such as glycocalyx. At least two episodes of calcification of the coprolite are recognized by manganous cathodoluminescence. The earlier of these infilled the capillary channels of the conifer fragments. Wood cell walls, voids, cracks, and small burrows were filled during the later episode. Microprobe data confirm these results and show that phosphate is sequestered in the capillaries. These observations suggest that bacteria within the capillaries induced initial mineralization of the coprolite, and, in so doing, created barriers that protected organic residues from subsequent destruction. Early onset of mineralization is consistent with the degree of preservation of woody xylem found in the coprolites. 
10.2307/3514864| An analysis of benthic foraminiferal morphotypes, based on test shape, mode of coiling and presence or absence of surface pores, was carried out on benthic foraminiferal data collected from the Gulf of Mexico by Phleger (1951). The morphotypes show distinct depth patterns and are used to determine the depth distribution of foraminiferal microhabitats in the Gulf of Mexico. The plano-convex morphotype has generally low values (10%) in relatively shallow depths (<1000 m) and a range of values of up to 60% in deeper water (>1000 m). The biconvex morphotype has values of <40% in water <500 m, and a range of values below this interval. The flat ovoid, tapered or cylindrical and flat tapered morphotypes have maxima in the upper 2000 m, with a large range of values, while lower values are found in the 2000-4000 m interval. A summation of the epifaunal and infaunal morphotypes shows that infaunal taxa dominate in relatively shallow waters from 100 m-<1300 m, and epifaunal taxa dominate generally at depths of >2000 m, with the 1300-2000 m interval being transitional with variable values. The infaunal-epifaunal depth pattern is similar to that observed in the Norwegian Sea. The infaunal-epifaunal transition between 1300 and 2000 m is close to the upper or lower depth limits of many species, and we suggest that these depth limits are related in part to the microhabitat preferences of the taxa. 
27670419|We studied mollusk-dominated multispecies assemblies from the south Pyrenean foreland in Spain by using relative abundance data in a framework of high-frequency depositional sequences for an interval spanning 2 myr across the early Eocene climatic optimum. The sequences are part of the Figols (middle Ypresian) and Castigaleu (upper Ypresian) allogroups and together document environmental changes influenced by tectonics at the lower frequency and driven by sea level and climate at the high-frequency temporal scale. We applied ordination through multidimensional scaling and other techniques to explore the structure of the data set. Six Figols and eight Castigaleu communities, linked along onshore-offshore gradients, were interpreted on uniformitarian grounds. Paleoenvironments ranged from mangrove forest to tidal flat, tidal creek, estuary, delta front, shoreface, carbonate ramp, and inner shelf. Some habitats were represented throughout the interval, allowing examination of the effect on coastal ecosystems of environmental disturbances tied to sealevel lowstands, as deduced from the sequence stratigraphic analysis. These disturbances presumably amounted to extirpation by river floods, burial, increased turbidity, high river-derived nutrient input, and decreased ecospace availability. The major effect on the mangrove-estuary-delta gradient was coincident with the unconformity separating the two allogroups. Mangrove communities suffered a change in rank of dominating species and a turnover of rare species. Subtidal estuarine and delta communities were affected in their relative abundances, but we observed no change in rank or turnover. We suggest that the different niche breadth of organisms leads to different responses to perturbation of several scales. Many intertidal cerithioidean gastropods went extinct, whereas subtidal turritelline gastropods were unchanged, during the major environmental variation. Mangrove gastropods experienced increased originations in the upper Ypresian. The carbonate ramp heterotrophs did not change across the Figols-Castigaleu perturbation, although throughout the early Eocene the phototroph guild within the same ecosystem was undergoing frequent turnover events. All studied associations showed significant changes in the relative abundances of constituent species across unconformities of minor entity, proving that soft-bottom marine communities conform to an open-membership model of ecosystem recruitment, as suggested by studies of past open marine ecosystems. Persistence to a degree is suggested by mangrove communities, indicating a slightly more limited membership in low-nutrient estuarine habitats, a response more similar to that of coral reef tropical ecosystems. This study confirms the idea that different species and communities may experience opposite effects from the same events and shows that faunal distributions in estuarine and deltaic systems reflect more than just bathymetric change. High onshore origination also conforms to the theory of onshore-offshore faunal change.
10.2307/3515606|Sixteen erosional surfaces are recognized in a 144-m-thick condensed package of Tertiary (Eocene-Plioc-ene) clinoformtoe sediments recovered at ODP Site 1073 on the New Jersey slope. Most of these surfaces are associated with significant hiatuses or extremely condensed intervals defined by Sr isotopes or biostratigraphic data, and many can be linked to sequence boundaries defined in onshore and shelf seismic studies. All surfaces define the bases of fining upward sequences; they separate clay or biogenic muds below from authigenic glauconitic sandy muds or sands above. The entire Tertiary package is thoroughly bioturbated and dominated by ichnotaxa representing softground conditions. Burrow densities, burrow preservation, and the relative importance of certain ichnotaxa vary through the Tertiary package, reflecting changes in water depth, relative degree of condensation, and associated glaucony authigenesis, all related to margin progradation. Nonetheless, when individual sequences are considered, little or no change in softground ichnofossil assemblages is recognized across bounding surfaces. However, most surfaces are marked clearly by firmground Thalassinoides, burrow systems that penetrate deeply (up to 2 m) into subjacent clays and are characterized by extremely sharp walls and coarser glauconitic fills. In shallower shelf sequences, firmground ichnofabrics develop at sequence boundaries in response to subaerial exposure and transgressive ravinement. In contrast, the Tertiary firmgrounds on the New Jersey margin formed in deep water in response to phases of rapid transgression and net erosion; consolidated mud substrates were exhumed as a result of sediment starvation and bottom-current winnowing, facilitated by bioerosion, at or near the bases of slope clinoforms. These observations extend the previously established sequence stratigraphic utility of the substrate-controlled Glossifungites ichnofacies to deeper water facies.
10.2307/3515537|In Glacier Bay, Alaska, Silurian limestones record the development and demise of a stromatolite reef complex in the Alexander terrane. These microbial deposits are of regional and paleontological significance because they contain paleogeographically distinctive biotas and yield important insights into Phanerozoic stromatolites that inhabited normal-marine subtidal environments. Willoughby limestones exposed on Drake Island reveal that stromatolite growth at the platform margin influenced platform dynamics with the protection of peritidal and lagoonal habitats behind a reef-fringed rim, which experienced early lithification by the precipitation of synsedimentary marine cements. Relatively low-energy subtidal conditions in a restricted, shallow-marine lagoon are implied by the peloidal and mollusk-rich wackestones, packstones, and grainstones. At the platform margin, stromatolite boundstones and cementstones capped a reef-like mound by forming a thick microbial-cement crust on a core of outer lagoonal sediments. Well laminated, fenestral mudstones and peloidal wackestones-grainstones have an abrupt lateral contact with the microbial boundstones, indicating their formation in peritidal flats adjacent to the stromatolite reefs. Foreslope breccias consist of clasts derived from shallow subtidal environments on the shelf and at its rim. Cyclic repetition of these deposits indicate that sea level fluctuations and tectonic instability in the Alexander terrane contributed to periodic shedding of shallow-marine detritus to the upper slope, followed by the rebuilding of stromatolite reefs at the platform margin. Culminating stages in the Klakas orogeny induced large-scale, catastrophic collapse of the carbonate platform. Silurian stromatolites characterized by similar habitats and microbial-sponge biotas in southwestern Alaska and the Ural Mountains, Russia, together with paleomagnetic data, detrital zircon evidence, and the timing of late-stage Caledonide events, firmly establish genetic and temporal links of the Alexander terrane with other areas along the Uralian Seaway.
27670408|The isotopic ecology of terrestrial snails from tropical island settings is not known despite the importance of such data sets for paleoenvironmental reconstructions. In this study, variations in carbon (13C/12C) and oxygen (18O/16O) isotope ratios obtained during whole-shell and sequential-rib analyses of the modern land snail, Cerion, reveal a record of diet and local environment on San Salvador, Bahamas. The mean 13C value of adult Cerion shells collected from C4 vegetation is higher by 1.0%. relative to snails collected from C3 plants, suggesting that carbon isotopes in shell carbonate reflect the dominant plant type in the diet, though the broad range of shell carbonate 13C confirms a varied diet for this genus. The mean 18O values of adult Cerion shells collected from the west coast of San Salvador are 0.8%. higher than those collected from the east coast of the island. This difference may reflect the incorporation of water vapor derived from 18O-rich hypersaline lakes located in the island's western interior. Sequential-rib analysis of one adult Cerion shell reveals variations in 13C and 18O values through ontogeny that may reflect changes in food source and rainfall seasonality, respectively. This study lays the groundwork for future studies to establish fossil Cerion as a valuable paleoenvironmental proxy for San Salvador and the Bahamas.
10.2307/3515438|Diverse aspects of the fossil floras of the Early to Middle Jurassic (Cleveland Ironstone and Dogger Formations and Ravenscar Group; Pliensbachian-Bathonian stages) of North Yorkshire, England, have been investigated in order to better define the prevailing Early-Middle Jurassic paleoclimate. Growth rings in fossil woods have been characterized in terms of their 'mean sensitivity'; overall woods are 'complacent and grew well within the bounds of their climatic tolerance, but woods from the oldest and, particularly, youngest parts of the succession analyzed (the Dogger and Scalby Formations, respectively) show greater interseasonal variation in growth. Intraseasonal variability in growth is indicated by the ubiquitous presence of false rings. Further evidence of seasonality from the fossil floras is the occurrence of leaf beds (ginkgophytes and Nilssoniopteris) interpreted as resulting from the deposition of leaves shed from deciduous plants during flood seasons. Charcoal is ubiquitous throughout the succession and wood samples often show 'checking' of cell walls as a microscopic feature. These observations, combined with a consideration of the depositional and diagenetic history of the host sedimentary rocks, indicate the predominance of a winter-wet seasonal paleoclimate, which was characterized by greater aridity in the late Bajocian-Bathonian relative to the Pliensbachian-mid Bajocian. The increasing aridity towards the close of this interval may have been partly a function of regional withdrawal of the extensive seaway that characterized the area for most of the preceding Early Jurassic, but also may have been an early manifestation of the continent-wide arid phase that affected Eurasia during the Late Jurassic.
10.2307/3515435|A study of shell concentrations (shell beds) from Basin and Range (California, Nevada, and Utah) Lower and Middle Ordovician strata demonstrates that they are taxonomically diverse and very abundant locally in this region. Ordovician shell beds range from mm-thick pavements, composed exclusively of trilobites or brachiopods, to well-developed composite monotaxic and polytaxic shell beds, meters in thickness. Lower Ordovician (Ibexian) shell beds are primarily trilobite- and echinoderm-dominated and are taphonomically similar to Cambrian shell beds. In contrast, brachiopod, ostracod, and gastropod shell beds dominate Middle Ordovician (Whiterockian) strata. Shell beds are found throughout Lower and Middle Ordovician strata in nearly all lithofacies of the Basin and Range. However, frequency of occurrence and the stratigraphic, taphonomic, and paleontologic features of shell beds vary across lithofacies. These environmental variations are caused primarily by physical processes, such as storm events and current reworking. The early Middle Ordovician (Whiterockian) is a critical time in the development of Paleozoic shell concentrations; the impact of the Ordovician radiation significantly changed the biofabric of the sedimentary rock at this time. Overall, the physical dimension, abundance, and diversity of taxonomic types of shell beds increased from Ibexian to Whiterockian time. Significantly, brachiopod-dominated shell beds along with those dominated by ostracodes and gastropods replaced the trilobite-dominated beds as the dominant type in shallow marine-carbonate settings in the early Middle Ordovician. This study additionally suggests that shell beds are useful proxies for recognizing the changing dominant components of paleocommunities through time.
27670406|Pinnatiramosus qianensis Geng, a plant with a complex, extensive, pinnate branching system and pitted tracheids from marine Llandovery (lower Silurian) rocks in Guizhou Province, challenges long-held theories on the origin and early evolution of vascular plants in the Silurian and Devonian periods. This has led to the hypothesis that the fossils are not syngenetic with the entombing rock but represent the rooting systems of much younger plants, possibly of Permian age. Permian strata overly the Llandovery rocks unconformably in the succession. Leafless axes with less ordered branching occur closer to the boundary and may have had a similar source. Existing and new material of Pinnatiramosus has been subjected to detailed analyses in an attempt to resolve the problem. This has involved examination of the branching systems with respect to the surrounding matrix, comparative morphological descriptions of the systems, and anatomical investigations based on compression and permineralized fossils. The latter in particular indicate an endogenous origin of the lateral branches, typical of roots. Collectively such evidence is highly suggestive of roots of younger plants growing through lithified sedimentsplants whose affinity and age remain to be determined but which show an amazing capacity to fill two-dimensional space efficiently, accompanied by an avoidance strategy that is also seen in recent angiosperms.
10.2307/3514478|The often-repeated scenario of the success of mammalian taxa at the Cretaceous/Tertiary boundary is that the Marsupialia is reduced in diversity to a single genus, Peradectes, while placental mammals and multituberculates continue to flourish into the early Paleocene. This picture may be accurate for North America, but for South America, the story is very different. Four familial or subfamilial marsupial taxa that are represented in Late Cretaceous deposits of Bolivia and Peru (pediomyids, caroloameghiniids, and didelphine and eobrasiliine opossums) are also found in the medial Paleocene, Itaborai Local Fauna of Brazil. The Itaborai Local Fauna contains five additional taxa: derorhynchine didelphids, protodidelphids, borhyaenenids, polydolopids, and microbiotheriids. The diversity of this fauna is of such taxonomic breadth that a Late Cretaceous origin for this South American marsupial radiation appears likely. We also cite a number of lineages at or very close to the generic level that successfully transgress the Cretaceous/Tertiary boundary in South America. Thus, the number of South American marsupial taxa at all levels that transgressed this boundary was greater than that interpreted from the record in North America. Contrary to long-held views based on the North American record, new data suggest that marsupials survived the end of the Cretaceous and passed into the Tertiary in increasing numbers in the South American region.
10.2307/3514931| An examination of the preservation of insects enclosed in mid-Tertiary amber from the Dominican Republic demonstrates that soft-part preservation, especially flight muscle, is frequent. Transmission electron micrographs of such muscle show an hitherto unexpected degree of ultracellular detail, including mitochondria with their internal membranes (cristae) intact. Amber fossils represent a remarkable, and as yet almost unexplored, repository of soft part information. The preservational detail of insects fossilized in amber is here related to a study of the preservation potential of flight muscle ultrastructure using live blowflies (Calliphora vomitoria). Four decay sequences were compared: one experimental group of flies was dehydrated over phosphorus pentoxide; another embedded in a hydrophobe (wax); a third left in vials filled with maple syrup, chosen because of its similarity to the early behavior of resinous exudates; and the fourth was a control set of flies left untreated in glass vials. The chronology and extent of decay were substantially different between the four sequences. Flight muscle from dehydrated and syrup-embedded flies showed less rapid disintegration of mitochondria and myofibril ultrastructure and marked shrinkage of organelles when compared to control and wax-embedded flight muscle. The preservational style of the former shows considerable similarity to that of fossil amber. The ultrastructural preservation of the tissue in amber is inferred to be at least partly due to water loss and not the result of anoxic conditions. Much potential lies in the application of this model and other taphonomic investigations to the interpretation of similar Konservat-Lagersttten. 
10.2307/3515464|Trilobites of exhumed reefs of the Late Llandoverian Attawapiskat Formation of northern Ontario occur in accumulations that have undergone extensive taphonomic sorting. Most spectacular are monospecific to low-diversity "pockets" of the large scutelluine Ekwanoscutellum. These accumulations, which cover areas of up to a square meter, are nested stacks of mostly inverted (concave-up) large sclerites, the majority of which are pygidia. They may have formed by passive settling of sclerites in "current-shadows" in the lee of obstacles in the reef system. Excellent preservation of the sclerites, absence of epibionts, and minimal internal sediment with in the "pockets" suggest rapid accumulation. Aggregation of individuals for molting and reproduction may explain the availability of large numbers of Ekwanoscutellum sclerites as raw material for the accumulations. A second, less common assemblage is a more diverse association dominated by the scutelluine Meroperix and the illaenid Stenopareia, and is often associated with abundant calciate brachiopods. Although some sorting has taken place, more variable dorso-ventral orientations and lower sclerite abundances indicate a different origin from the Ekwanoscutellum Association. The data underscore the taphonomic complexity of patchy environments such as Silurian reefs and indicate that extensive sorting of skeletons is a significant source of bias in the paleoecologic analysis of non-framework components of reef biofacies.
41317457|Pliocene papionin monkeys of Eurasia, such as Paradolichopithecus arvernensis, Procynocephalus subhimalayanus, and Macaca sp. indet. from Yushe, are large-bodied and interpreted as at least partly terrestrial. Terrestriality in primates has implications for the dietary items consumed. Dietary proclivities from the evaluation of pit and scratch counts under low-magnification (35X) were inferred to address whether the diets of these Eurasian papionins differ and whether they correspond to extant primates (Papio ursinus, n = 24, Pan troglodytes, n = 9, and Gorilla gorilla, n = 10), three Plio-Pleistocene southern African fossil papionins with known isotopie values (Parapapio broomi, n = 14; Papio robinsoni, n = 10; Theropithecus oswaldi danieli, n = 8), or a Pliocene bipedal hominin (Australopithecus africanus, n = 8). Macaca sp. indet. from Yushe most closely resembles Australopithecus africanus from South Africa, which is characterized by evidence of some hard-object feeding. Paradolichopithecus from Romania and to a lesser extent Procynocephalus from northern India also exhibit use-wear scars associated with the ingestion of grit possibly associated with the exploitation of corms and bulbs of CAM or C; plants. The dental microwear signal of grassland foraging typical of such C grazers as Theropithecus oswaldi danieli does not characterize other Plio-Pleistocene papionins. Pliocene papionin diets converge with those of Australopithecus, suggesting that global climate cooling intensifying during the Pliocene may have led both early baboonlike monkeys and australopiths to increase consumption of nutrient-rich edible plant storage organs in these fragmented and partially open habitats of the temperate Old World.
3515839|Owls are important contributors to the Tertiary small-vertebrate fossil record. They concentrate small-vertebrate remains by producing pellets rich in skeletal material that provide a sample of the small-vertebrate fauna of an area. A common assumption is that different predators inflict unique fragmentation and skeletal element representation signatures, thus providing a method for identifying a field assemblage as pellet derived, and possibly identifying the predator. In addition to the digestive process of pellet formation, the taphonomic history of a pellet includes the post-regurgitation processes of weathering, disintegration, transport, and burial, all of which can introduce biases into an assemblage and confound paleoecological interpretation. Analysis of a modern accumulation of small-vertebrate remains from Great Horned Owl (Bubo virginianus) pellets in a temperate forest environment on San Juan Island, Washington, reveals that fragmentation and skeletal-element representation change with residence time on the forest floor as pellets disintegrate and skeletal elements become dispersed. Matted hair initially protects the skeletal elements. As the pellet breaks down, the bones become dispersed, fragmentation of the bones increases (from 99% intact bones in intact pellets to 75% intact bones in fully dispersed pellets), and small, fragile skeletal elements are lost, resulting in a residual concentration of larger, more robust skeletal elements. The spatial distribution of skeletal elements below the roosting site follows a right-skewed, bimodal pattern. Skeletal elements are preserved in the soil to a depth of three centimeters. Post-regurgitation processes have the potential to distort the original faunal and skeletal composition of pellet-derived assemblages, thus masking any original predator-specific signatures. Actualistic taphonomic studies are necessary in order to understand how well pellet-derived assemblages capture information on local ecological and environmental conditions. This is a critical question that must be addressed to enable correction for such biases before pellet-derived assemblages are used for assessment of small-vertebrate community change and paleoenvironmental reconstruction.
27670476|We introduce new terminology and a new classification scheme for describing tetrapod tail traces, focusing on the interpretation of dinosaur tail traces. Our classification divides tail traces into (1) tail impressionsthere is no evidence of forward motion; (2) protracted tail tracesthey persist for at least one stride length; and (3) abbreviated tail tracesthey persist for less than one stride length. Protracted tail traces are simple or compound, based on the amount of interruption of the tail trace, which we quantify by the percent interruption metric (PIM). Abbreviated tail traces are also simple or compound. Classifications are modified further by sinuosity, which we describe as low or high. The PIM approximates vertical tail motion, and sinuosity approximates lateral tail motion. Sediment variations, preservation, and lateral motion resulting from locomotion must be taken into consideration when interpreting tail traces. This new classification scheme is applied to a partial theropod trackway with associated tail trace from the Upper Jurassic Morrison Formation, Bighorn Basin, Wyoming, United States. The tail trace is protracted and simple with low sinuosity and a low PIM; we interpret this as the result of relatively low tail motion. We hypothesize that significant differences exist between ornithopod and theropod tail trace patterns. We also suggest that protracted tail traces associated with bipedal dinosaur trackways are not the result of the use of the tail as a stabilizing third leg; some may represent incidental contact of the sediment by the tail owing to backward rotation about the pelvis during deceleration.
10.2307/3515477|An important aspect of ostracode preservation includes burial and resistance to crushing. In this study, ostracode valves from six modern species were subjected to force using a miniature electronic load cell. Variables commonly considered to influence strength and investigated here are shell size (length, width, height), shape, valve thickness, and ornamentation. Area, width, shell shape, and ornamentation showed the greatest correlation with resistance to crushing. A stepwise regression process used these variables (and thickness), along with their squares and crossed terms, as independent variables to formulate a system of equations to predict crushing resistance. Width, thickness, and shell shape are significant predictors for all species considered. Ornamentation is not significant in the stepwise analysis. The results are reasonable in an engineering context, particularly in regard to width and thickness. This work is important because it potentially allows investigators to apply such equations to an assemblage of ostracodes to determine their resistance to crushing and infer the degree to which the assemblage may have been altered by this taphonomic process.
27670312|Tiering and ichnoguild analysis provide valuable evidence on marine benthic paleoecology. This paper provides the first detailed study on the ecology of a Cambrian deep-marine ichnofauna by means of the analysis of its ichnoguilds and tiering structure. Endobenthic tiering in this Early Cambrian deep-sea community was moderately developed. Biogenic structures were emplaced mostly in the uppermost millimeters of the substrate, with the exception of post-depositional burrows preserved on the base of turbidite sand-stones. Four ichnoguilds are defined. The Palaeophycus ichnoguild includes semi-permanent, shallow-tier, suspension feeder structures produced by vagile vermiform organisms. The Oldhamia ichnoguild consists of semi-permanent, very shallow-tier, undermat-miner structures produced by stationary vermiform organisms. The Helminthopsis ichnoguild comprises transitory, near-surface to very shallow-tier, mat-grazer structures produced by vagile vermiform animals. The Diplichnites ichnoguild consists of transitory, surface structures produced by vagile arthropods. Comparisons with coeval ichnofaunas indicate that these ichnoguilds are widespread in VendianCambrian deep-marine biotas. This analysis suggests that Cambrian deep-water communities were remarkably different from younger examples and stresses the importance of microbial mats on the ecology of NeoproterozoicCambrian ecosystems. Feeding strategies associated with microbial mats persisted in the deep sea after the agronomic revolution that took place in shallow-water environments, suggesting a gradual closure of a taphonomic window during the ProterozoicCambrian transition. The presence of post-depositional burrows of the Palaeophycus ichnoguild at the base of turbidite sandstones indicates a higher burrowing depth than those envisaged by current models.
10.2307/3514604|Eighty-two species of foraminifera are recorded from the Late Quaternary eolian sands of the Thar Desert. The most abundant and widely distributed species is Ammonia beccarii (Linn) variant. The foraminifera were transported in suspension from diverse sources; many were transported hundreds of kilometers. The presence of foraminifera in the Thar and in other terrestrial dune sands suggests that a mixed fauna in well-sorted quartzose sandstones may be present in the rock record, thereby complicating paleoenvironmental interpretation.
27670428|The Roe Calcarenite is a 23-m-thick, mostly unlithified carbonate that accumulated in shallow water at the center of the Great Australian Bight on a marine erosional surface during the late plioceneearly Pleistocene. The grainy deposits are profusely rich in whole mollusks and the large symbiont-bearing foraminifer Marginopora vertebralis. Articulated coralline algal rods, whole discorbid, rotaliid, and miliolid foraminifers, and innumerable fragments of M. vertebralis dominate sand-sized particles. A particularly conspicuous miliolid is the encrusting form Nubecularia sp. The unit is divided into two informal members. We interpret the lower member, an areally similar mollusk-rich facies, as a record of deposition during relative sea-level rise on shallow nearshore grass beds, probably dominated by an Amphibolis community living in an overall subtropical setting. The more areally diverse upper member comprises three facies, which we envisage as having accumulated during regression in a series of adjacent intertidal sand flat and beach or supratidal microbial-lacustrine environments. These PlioPleistocene deposits have many parallels with Holocene grass-bank facies in western and southern Australia and likely represent accumulation in a slightly warmer ocean than today wherein the depositional setting was heated by solar radiation. This unit is an important conceptual bridge into the older Cenozoic rock record.
10.2307/3515412|A distinctive mobile pebble and cobble rockground biota of Late Eocene age is described from volcaniclastic sediments between Oamaru and Kakanui, North Otago, New Zealand. Thousands of subangular to subrounded basaltic pebbles and cobbles are encrusted with a diverse range of very well-preserved epibionts including crustose coralline algae, serpulids, bivalves, foraminifera, brachiopods, and more than 70 species of cyclostome and cheilostome bryozoans. The preservation of thin sediment layers beneath and between encrusting bryozoan colonies indicates the probable occurrence, during life, of agglutinating microbial mats. The abundance of subspherical rhodoliths, the diversity of epibionts, and their occurrence on all faces of the volcanic clasts reflect intermediate levels of overturning and rolling in a moderately current-swept channel adjacent to small volcanic islands and seamounts. The occurrence of large foraminifera (Asterocyclina), bryozoans (including two extant species), and brachiopods with warm-water affinities indicates subtropical sea temperatures and water depths of 25-50 m for this community, which represents one of the few described Cenozoic examples of a mobile rockground biota.
27670507|Details of the three-dimensional morphology of the ichnofossil Phycosiphon incertum collected from deposits on submarine slopes are reconstructed by processing a series of images obtained from polished sections of the samples. Samples were collected from the mudstone around a slump scar in the Paleocene Shiomi Formation, northern Japan, which is characterized by the occurrence of slump scars. The reconstructed morphology of Phycosiphon incertum is a meandering tube with a flattened ellipse cross section. The tubes are flattened in a plane oblique to the bedding surfaces and aligned along the same direction at both the interior and exterior of the slump scar. Flattening of the tubes was likely caused by sediment compaction, and the tube flattens toward the horizontal plane that is oblique to the bedding plane because of the paleoslope inclination. The difference between the bedding and flattening planes of the tubes of Phycosiphon incertum may imply paleoslope inclination. When the inclination of the bedding plane of the Shiomi Formation is corrected using the flattened surfaces, the bedding plane dips by 9 toward the southeast, which conforms to the paleocurrent direction of the turbidites. The morphology of Phycosiphon incertum can, therefore, be used as a paleoslope indicator.
20172980| A crinoid Lagersttte of Chariocrinus wrttembergicus (Opalinuston Formation, Aalenian, Middle Jurassic) was formed under storm conditions. The Lagersttte is oriented parallel to paleowave crests, and exhumed concretions indicate sediment reworking. Paleoflow was nearly perpendicular to (storm-) wave ripple-crests and was directed towards a depocenter to the south-southeast. Both waves and currents affected crinoid parts, such as stems, and document combined flow conditions. The crinoids lived on a low-relief swell somewhat above storm wave base in a muddy environment, and caused their own in-situ burial. During a storm, wave agitation led to suspension of sediments extending into the habitat of the crinoids. The crinoids provided additional friction within the near-bottom, suspension-rich, agitated water body, thereby reducing the speed of water currents. This led to sediment deposition, and the crinoids were buried in fine-grained sand and silt. In this way, they induced their own burial; therefore, the Lagersttte is the product of a feedback process. Rapid burial of the crinoids led to their excellent preservation. Articulated preservation is possible only if the flow was too slow to remove the crinoids from their substrate. Some crinoids tried to escape these hostile conditions by autotomizing their crowns, but these were pushed down to the seafloor by oscillatory water movement, and were immediately covered, mouth upward, by sediments. The preserved crowns provide an estimate of the population density in the range of 110 animals m, which is a minimum value because some crowns might have been washed away before burial. 
10.2307/3515515|Small spicular, columnar, and blade-shaped stromatolites are common features of hot spring and geyser systems in the Taupo Volcanic Zone of North Island, New Zealand. These organosedimentary structures can grow in many settings, where water temperature and pH vary widely. Although most common in neutral and alkaline waters, stromatolites also are forming in several acid-sulfate spring and geyser systems in the Waiotapu geothermal area and at Lake Rotokawa. Growth of these stromatolites is partly mediated by a biota that is dominated by fungi and locally, diatoms. When stromatolites from acidic thermal waters are compared with those from neutral and alkali waters, significant differences in their biota and mineralogy are evident. The biota in stromatolites from the neutral and alkali waters is dominated by prokaryotic bacteria (including cyanobacteria), whereas stromatolites from acidic waters are dominated by eukaryotic fungi and to a lesser extent, diatoms. Stromatolites in the neutral and alkali thermal waters are formed almost entirely of opaline silica, with calcite laminae present in a few localities. Although stromatolites in the acidic systems also are composed mainly of opaline silica, they contain substantial amounts of kaolinite and, locally, sulfur and/or jarosite. In ancient thermal deposits it may be possible to distinguish stromatolites that grew in acidic waters from those that formed in neutral and alkali systems by considering their preserved biota and mineralogy.
25835615|Because of its fossil abundance and exceptional preservation, the Romualdo Formation of the Santana Group has become a famous lithostratigraphic unit of the Araripe Basin. In the past decades, much research has been conducted on the vertebrates of this unit, especially fish and pterosaurs, based mainly on museum collections. Despite the importance of these fossil finds, no stratigraphic information is known about them, because until recently, locals have collected most of the fossils. Here we present the results of the third controlled excavation of these layers. The data from all fossils collected confirm a faunal succession of fish biota. In the upper and most fossiliferous layer, the faunal composition shows a pattern of fish distribution never observed before, indicating that previous categories (abundance versus diversity) do not include the total diversity of fish populations. Pterosaur remains were recorded for the first time in the field, contradicting the general idea that these volant reptiles are common in the Romualdo strata. The specimen was attributed to the clade Anhangueridae because the proportional length of the first wing phalanx is less than twice the length of the wing metacarpal. The controlled excavation showed that the pterosaur assemblages from this formation probably occur in clusters. The known abundance of pterosaurs in the Romualdo Formation has been biased by just a few sites of fossil extraction, and these reptiles do not appear to have been as widespread or abundant as previously thought.
27670546|Four environmental provinces are distinguished in the deep South China Sea based on ichna and their relationship to the Pinatubo 1991 ash accumulation. Scolicia ichnofabrics along the Philippine Islands are in sand-prone, greenish, oxygen-deficient deposits to 3500 m water depth. Abundance and size of Scolicia appear to be related to quantity and quality of benthic food, respectively. Scolicia producers intensely bioturbate the 1991 ash; below this level, Phycosiphon, Planolites, and Thalassinoides may occupy different tiers. In mud-prone deposits Palaeophycus, Planolites, Thalassinoides, and local Zoophycos (including Spirophyton-like Zoophycos) are present. In the Manila Trench, turbidites are sparsely bioturbated. To the west, Thalassinoides ichnofabrics are found in slowly deposited, deeply oxidized sediments containing little organic matter; Fe- and Mn-oxides lead to their induration. The area west of 118E is affected by upwelling and intense wind mixing, where the Nereites ichnofabrics are present. The Nereites producers feed preferably just above the redox boundary. Following blooms, however, temporary surface feeding is documented by 1991 ash in the burrows. The high benthic food content and the vertical movements of the Nereites producers probably prevented the production of graphoglyptids. Below this level Planolites and Thalassinoides are present. The 1991 ash is bioturbated to some degree where hyperpycnites provide a soft surface layer and some benthic food, in particular along the Philippines. Where such deposits are lacking, the 1991 ash is nearly unbioturbated. Where ample organic matter reaches the seafloor, surface trails have been observed, especially along the Philippines slope and the area affected by upwelling and intense wind mixing.
3515791|While all modern crinoids are benthic filter feeders, some fossil species found in low-oxygen Konservat-Lagersttten probably were pelagic. Pseudoplanktonic forms were mostly attached to driftwood (Seirocrinus, Traumatocrinus, Melocrinus); they had long, rope-like stems and enlarged, permanently splayed filter fans, as required for a passive townet function. However, the short and heavily cirrated stem of another driftwood-dweller (Tentacrinites) suggests active filter feeding. If the buoyant lobolith of Scyphocrinites acted as a swim bladder, this crinoid, by the same tow-net principle, could have made use of velocity gradients near a boundary layer. Paradigms are different for stemless forms, whether they floated passively over the bottom (Uintacrinus) or filtrated actively in the water column (Roveacrinids and Saccocoma). Some of the proposed models could not function with the muscular and ligamentary system of modern forms. Nevertheless, they represent distinctive peaks in the adaptive landscape that can be tested using taphonomic, morphological, and evolutionary evidence.
40960983|Fossiliferous shallowing-upward parasequences in the early Oligocene Byram Formation of Mississippi provide an ideal opportunity to explore the effects of differences in data preparation, format, and analysis in testing for faunal persistence. Ten replicate bulk samples collected from each of three lithologically similar horizons in successive parasequences yielded > 13,000 molluscan individuals. Assemblages were first compared using more traditional descriptive statistics that examined aspects of taxonomy, abundance, and guild structure, and were then compared using multivariate techniques with similarity coefficients that employed both compositional and abundance data. Different procedures for identifying and excluding rare taxa prior to analysis were also investigated. Simple numerical methods emphasized similarities among assemblages; hierarchical clustering, nonmetric multi-dimensional scaling (NMDS), and analysis of similarities (ANOSIM) revealed differences among the faunal horizons. Multivariate tests indicated stasis only when using presenceabsence data with a large number of rare taxa excluded. When abundance data are utilized, however, faunal change through time is suggested, regardless of how rare taxa are treated. The choice of data format, rare taxon exclusion policy, and analytical approach all affect the interpretation of results and the outcome of hypothesis tests for stability, suggesting that differences in methodology partly contribute to disagreement among studies examining faunal persistence. Furthermore, various properties related to ecosystem structure are ascribed different degrees of importance depending on the study. Thus, comparisons of patterns should be made on equal footing to ensure that differences in methodology are not contributing to differences in interpretation.
3515725|Marine hard-substrate communities are important ecological and evolutionary resources for paleontologists and neontologists, yet their study is handicapped by numerous terms that are used inconsistently. A rationalized nomenclature system is proposed for plants and animals that encrust or bore natural marine hard substrates. The terms describe the identity of the colonizing organism, the nature of the substrate, and the location of the colonist (on the surface or within the substrate). These terms follow simple principles, making them easy to construct and interpret. A new collective term also is introduced: a sclerobiont is any organism (animal or plant) fouling any kind of hard substrate.
10.2307/3514719|The understanding of basin evolution improved with the development of geodynamic models in the late 1970s. These models relate the subsidence and thermal history of a basin to the amount of extension it underwent during rifting, but the limitations of these relationships still have to be carefully assessed. Two approaches can then be distinguished: 1) the data are sparse or imprecise and the confidence that the models apply is high; the models are used to constrain the subsidence and thermal history of the basin, or 2) the data are numerous and precise, and they are used to assess the limitations of the models. Paleobathymetric estimates are bound to play a significant role in both approaches. In areas of shallow-water sediment deposition, paleobathymetric estimates are usually sufficiently precise to provide a strong constraint on the subsidence history, once sediment thickness information is added. Therefore they appear as a major testing tool for the geodynamic models. To better serve that purpose, they must be made easily accessible to the geophysical community by emphasizing their quantitative aspect and their uncertainty range. In these areas, model depth predictions are unlikely to bring much new information because they are usually less precise than direct estimates. Conversely, in areas of deep-water sediment deposition where direct paleobathymetric estimates are imprecise, geodynamic models can provide additional constraints on water depth. The paleontological community may find use for these models despite their present limitations.
10.2307/3515065|Belemnite rostra from the Grey Shale and Jet Rock Members of the Lower Toarcian Whitby Mudstone Formation (England) record fluctuations in oxygen and carbon stable-isotope compositions (<sup>18</sup>Oand <sup>13</sup>C, respectively) of the ambient waters. Salinity modelling based on the rostral calcite <sup>13</sup>C values from the most organic-rich intervals of the Jet Rock (Beds 34 and 35) indicates that surface waters were up to <tex-math>$\sim5\textperthousand$</tex-math> less saline compared to contemporaneous seawater. In addition to sea-surface salinity fluctuations, <sup>13</sup>C of the rostra probably records (a) various rates of primary production and burial of organic carbon, as well as (b) mixing of isotopically light DIC into the lower salinity and higher temperature surface water, or (c) migration of belemnites into sub-pycnoclinal waters with isotopically light DIC. A positive correlation between modelled <sub>t</sub> values (i.e., the density contrast between bottom and surface waters based on the belemnite temperature and salinity proxy data) and hydrogen index values of the sedimentary organic matter, indicates that water-column stratification was a significant factor in preserving the latter. Long periods of water-column stratification probably caused stagnation and concomitant dysoxia and anoxia in the bottom waters. These conditions were favourable to the preservation of marine organic matter and, combined with relatively low clastic input, resulted in high total organic carbon contents and hydrogen index values. The primary production was probably generally low, but may intermittently have been boosted by irregular upwelling of nutrient-rich intermediate and bottom-waters.
10.2307/3514966|Paleozoic Spirophyton and Zoophycos occur in shallow-water facies deposited under paleoecologically stressful conditions. Spirophyton producers inhabiting ephemeral ponds on estuarine floodplains marginal to the (Devonian) Catskill sea covering present-day southern New York were subjected to salinity fluctuations and desiccation, whereas Zoophycos producers living farther offshore were buried by storm deposits. Producers of Zoophycos living in inter distributary bays on Pennsylvanian lower delta plains (Tennessee) contended with fluctuations in salinity and oxygen conditions and variations in sediment grain size and in rate of sedimentation. In each case the producer was an r-selected opportunistic species, as shown by the distribution of the Spirophyton or Zoophycos and the paucity of co-occurring trace fossils. Morphologic analysis indicates that the Paleozoic producers of these Zoophycos and Spirophyton: 1) transported sediment downward from overlying layers or the sediment surface, and 2) were capable of a variety of behavioral patterns, only some of which resulted in complex 3-dimensional structures. The implied behavioral variability of the producers is consistent with the lack of specialization and inefficient use of resources characteristic of r-selected species. Typical reconstructions present Zoophycos and Spirophyton as complex 3-dimensional spreite structures recording life-long activity of specialized deposit feeders which inhabited poorly oxygenated muds accumulating in quiet offshore to bathyal environments. Analysis of Paleozoic Zoophycos and Spirophyton suggest that construction of these structures was not an obligate or life-long activity, nor did it reflect specialized efficient feeding strategies in food-limited environments. These and other similar Paleozoic shallow water occurrences underscore the need to restrict the Zoophycos ichnofacies as currently defined to Mesozoic and Cenozoic age deposits and to identify factors which controlled the distribution of Spirophyton and Zoophycos in the Paleozoic.
20173020|Ecological studies have revealed that the functional roles of dominant species in modern communities are often more important than overall diversity in governing community composition and functioning. Despite this recognition that abundance and diversity data are both required for a complete understanding of ecological processes, many paleoecological studies focus on presence-absence data, possibly because of concerns regarding the taphonomic fidelity of time-averaged fossil accumulations. However, the abundance of organisms in shell beds has been shown to provide a fairly accurate record of the living community, suggesting that the benefits of relative-abundance data should be reconsidered. Recognition of ecologically dominant species in local fossil assemblages should be based on counts of relative abundance and assessment of ecological role. Ecological dominance at larger spatial or temporal scales can be quantified using the mean rank order of a clade and the proportion of assemblages where the clade is present, providing unbiased, quantitative values for measuring the ecological importance of a clade. Their utility has been tested with three case studies encompassing a range of geographic and taxonomic scales, using a database of 1221 Ordovician-Paleogene quantitative fossil collections. The dominance metrics for rhynchonelli-form brachiopods, bivalves, and gastropods broadly parallel anecdotal trends, even including some more detailed patterns documented by regional studies. An examination of substrate preferences for brachiopod and bivalve orders confirms the abundance of infaunal bivalves in siliciclastics and epifaunal bivalves in carbonates, but it also reveals intriguing patterns regarding substrate preferences among rhynchonelliform brachiopod orders. The final case study analyzed changes in dominance between early Mesozoic fossil assemblages from Tethys and Panthalassa, documenting significant geographic differences in the ecological importance of rhynchonelliform brachiopods and bivalves. These large-scale dominance patterns often approximately matched those inferred from diversity trends; however, there are also times when dominance was decoupled from diversity, indicating that further investigation of ecological dominance will provide additional insights into ecological influences on the Phanerozoic history of life. "Are most species simply passengers in ecosystems that are run basically by a few dominants?" (Worm and Duffy, 2003, p. 631)
27670514|Grazing trails of the Valviferan isopod Chiridotea coeca are examined to test the relationships between trail morphology and the distribution of food (organic carbon). These isopods burrow up to 1 cm beneath the surface within ripple troughs and planar-bedded sand in the upper intertidal zone. The burrows are grouped into three forms based on the tortuosity of their course and degree of looping and trail crossover in plan view. Sediment samples taken directly from the trail furrows are used to establish the total organic-carbon content associated with each burrow morphology. There is an increase in organic-carbon content from burrows of low tortuosity (linear burrows) to burrows of higher tortuosity (convolute burrows with many crossovers), suggesting that benthic food content directly influences the behavior of C. coeca. Detailed study of trace emplacement further reveals a relationship between C. coeca and food content leading to the recognition of three grazing styles. These are directly related to the plan-view morphology of the trail and reflect the depth at which the isopod tunnels in the sediment. Graphical analysis of weight percent organic carbon against grazing style shows a positive correlation between deep burrowing and high benthic food content. The morphology of C. coeca trails differs from deep-sea turbidite and flysch deposits. In the deep-sea environment resources are replaced slowly, and food distribution is comparatively low and uniform, leading to regular meanders and complex traces that do not crossover existing trails. In the intertidal zone, C. coeca encounters sporadically distributed resources that are replenished semidiurnally. The resultant burrows exhibit increasing crossovers with increasing food content, representing a once-over feeding strategy designed to rapidly harvest a high-value, renewable resource.
20172981|The oyster Crassostrea? hatcheri (Ortmann) is one of the most common fossils in Oligocene-Miocene marine rocks in Patagonia, southern Argentina. This oyster is distinguished by its large size and the great thickness of its valves. It built framework reefs in shallow-shelf environments, and its valves form large biogenic and sedimentologic concentrations exposed in many areas of Patagonia. This paper focuses on the community of boring and encrusting organisms living on the valves of C.? hatcheri, in both the biogenic and sedimentologic concentrations. This community includes fungi, algae, sponges, arthropods, bryozoans, phoronids, polychaetes, brachiopods, and mollusks. The recorded diversity is comparable to that observed in Recent oyster reefs, suggesting that C.? hatcheri was a physical ecosystem engineer in shallow-shelf environments during the late Oligocene--early Miocene. Primary factors in their role as facilitating organisms were, besides the size of the valves, the age of adult specimens (average = 25 years), high population densities, wide geographical range (more than 10 latitude), and long temporal range (more than 5 My), in addition to the framework of the reefs and the sedimentologic concentrations of the valves.
10.2307/3515498|Previous multivariate statistical analyses identified at least seven associations of sporomorphs within a major vegetational group of late Triassic-earliest Jurassic times identified as corresponding to arctic or cool-temperate climatic conditions. Detailed examination of how these associations responded to the climatic changes near the Triassic-Jurassic boundary allows them to be classified in terms of their thermophily and drought tolerance. These deductions also give rise to a fairly detailed reconstruction of climatic changes at the time. Consideration of the presumed family affinities of the various sporomorphs gives some support to the climatic interpretations; and allows tentative reconstructions of some of the vegetation.
10.2307/3514967|Shell- and bone-bearing rocks can be readily categorized into 9 macroscopic fabric types using semi-quantitative scales for close-packing and size-sorting of bioclasts greater than 2 mm in diameter. Although designed to describe fossiliferous siliciclastics and volcaniclastics, this system of field description can also be used to enlarge upon standard petrographic descriptions of fossiliferous carbonates. In cross-sectional bed views, coarse bioclasts may be densely packed (bioclast-supported deposit, bioclast/bioclast contacts common; analogous to grainstones and packstones of Dunham, 1962), loosely packed (matrix-supported but with most bioclasts within one bioclast-length of each other, or possibly in a loose house-of-cards arrangement; comparable to some wackestones of Dunham, 1962), or dispersed (matrix-supported, most bioclasts more than one bioclast-length apart from each other, direct contacts rare; wackestones to mudstones of Dunham, 1962). These coarse bioclasts (>2 mm) may be well sorted (central 80% of bioclasts lie within 1 or 2 adjacent phi size-classes), bimodal (well sorted but with a distinct second mode), or poorly sorted (central 80% of bioclasts distributed over 3 or more adjacent size-classes). Despite the complicating effects of bioclast shape, novices show 90% accuracy in estimating close-packing from photographs. They have only 60% accuracy in estimating size-sorting (the most common error is underestimating goodness of sorting), underscoring the importance of size-tallies to cross-check visual estimates when first using this scheme. This packing/sorting approach provides a good visual image of the fabric, and narrows the range of possible modes of origin more than alternative criteria such as volumetric percent-abundance (which shows no one-to-one equivalence with close-packing), orientation, and fragmentation. However, detailed interpretations of fabrics usually require information on these and other features of the deposit, including bioclast condition, associated sedimentary structures, life-habits of bioclast-producers, and stratigraphic context.
10.2307/3515268|Local facies forming the basal Rosario Formation of the Upper Cretaceous in the Erendira area of northern Baja California (Mexico) were deposited in distinctive windward and leeward settings. They are related by a nonconformity to the flanks of an andesite ridge of the Lower Cretaceous Alisitos Formation. Through rapid transgression and erosion in late Cretaceous time, the ridge was reduced to a maximum width of a half-kilometer and its neck was breached by Rosario sediments to form a small near-shore island. One end of the Alisitos outlier is now being truncated by marine erosion so that the original length of the peninsula-island is difficult to determine. It was not less than 1.5 km long, however, based on local geomorphology. The windward side of the island is dominated by a thick, homogeneous wedge of andesite clasts reduced to small cobbles and pebbles in a limestone matrix. Crustose coralline algae referable to the genus Sporolithon prolifically encrust virtually all the clasts. The rudist bivalve Coralliochama orcutti is the only other abundant organism and it is found in life position cemented to the andesite substrate. Some juvenile echinoids and a rare undetermined type of gastropod also are members of this rudist facies. A thinner but crudely graded wedge of andesite clasts ranging from boulder to pebble size is present on the leeward side of the island. A previously described biota, here referred to as the oyster facies, has a diversity of 16 species including rare Coralliochama. Both the oyster and rudist biofacies thrived on rocky shores.
10.2307/3515231|Dating by planktic microfossils is commonly difficult in very shallow marine paleoenvironments. On the other hand most groups of larger foraminifers thrived under such conditions. Although many larger foraminifers are regarded as being of limited use in studies involving high resolution biostratigraphy, exceptions should occur in cases where a new group is evolving. One such group, the Lepidocyclinidae, evolved in the early middle Eocene of the Americas from a coiled, Amphistegina-like ancestor, via intermediate forms, such as Eulinderina and Polylepidina. Morphological modifications include shortening of the nepionic chamber spire and change in the position of the first chamber with a retrovert aperture. The precise nature and timing of these changes have remained obscure. Using samples from Alabama, Jamaica, and St. Bartholomew it is shown that progressive reduction in length of the nepionic spire of Eulinderina up-section occurred through planktic foraminiferal zones P11 and P12 (calcareous nannoplankton zones NP15 and NP16). Assemblages corresponding to Polylepidina appear at the NP16/CP14a level. A similar stage of development appears to be reached in populations of similar age from widely separated localities, based on available planktic microfossil dating. In shallow marine paleoenvironments, the biostratigraphic control provided by the evolutionary state of the Eulinderina-Polylepidina lineage is potentially superior to that providable by conventional planktic microfossils. A model correlating observed clustered values for two parameters of the nepionic spire with the TA 3.3 to TA 3.5 third order middle Eocene sequences of Haq and others is presented.
10.2307/3515425| Massive intertidal corals of the genera Goniastrea, Platygyra and Porites from the fringing reefs of Phuket, Thailand, suffer solar damage (and ensuing partial mortality) on subaerial exposure in the January-April period most years. As spring low tides fall at dawn (low sun altitude) and in the afternoon (when the sun altitude may be high) the lesions are consistently on the west sides of colonies and asymmetric growth forms develop. Recovery extends from the surviving polyps and a skeletal epithecal flange disconformably overlies the former area of partial mortality. As intertidal colonies grow, each new increment of partial mortality becomes progressively narrower as the incidence of solar damage becomes more frequent. Those corals of one species all at the same elevation on the reef flat develop similar surface morphologies as they suffer the same irradiation effects. Bioerosion (predominant on the outer reef flat) and the accumulation of fine sediment (predominant on the inner reef flat) occur preferentially on the dead (lesioned) areas of skeleton, which eventually result in those colonies at the outer reef flat being eroded away while those inshore are preserved, recording the times and extents of partial mortality. X-radiography of coral slabs can help date the major and minor events of partial mortality. The intertidal massive corals of the Phuket fringing reefs show three major recent low-water events, one in 1982/83, one in 1986/87 and the third in 1990/91. These perturbations in growth reflect the unusually low tides recorded at the nearby tidal station and probably relate to El Nio climatic events. 
3515747|Bivalve mollusks are biological chart recorders: their shells contain a record of environmental conditions in the form of geochemical variation. However, these records are often incomplete. Growth cessations and/or changing growth rates can reduce the range and resolution of the recorded environmental conditions. To investigate the effects of these variables on geochemical profiles, stable oxygen isotope (<sup>18</sup>O) profiles were modeled using several growth parameters. Two sets of profiles were calculated: one with constant daily increment widths, the other based on the annual pattern of daily increment width variation observed in the northern Gulf of California bivalve mollusk Chione cortezi. In both sets of models, multi-year <sup>18</sup>O profiles were calculated assuming that the bivalve shell grows continuously throughout its life. Other profiles were calculated to simulate an ontogenetic decrease in growth rate by decreasing the growth period, daily growth rate, or both. Altering the growth period simulates the effects of thermal thresholds, above or below which no shell material is deposited. Decreasing the daily growth rate results in lower annual shell growth rates while keeping the growth period constant. Combining the two provides a more accurate representation of bivalve shell growth in many subtropical and temperate species. In addition to the modeling exercise, the shell of a Chione cortezi that lived in the northern Gulf of California was sampled in two ways. First, low-resolution (300 micron) samples were recovered from the entire growth profile along the axis of maximum shell height (umbo to the commissure). Second, high-resolution (50 micron) samples were taken from regions of the shell representing winter growth from late in the bivalve's life. Modeling results and observations indicate that the fullest range of environmental conditions only is reflected in the earliest years of growth; profiles from successive years have reduced amplitudes, sample resolutions, or both. Variation of intra-annual growth rate in models simulating continuous growth can produce cuspate <sup>18</sup>O profiles that mimic shutdowns. More detailed sampling in later stages of ontogeny can reconstruct a fuller range of environmental conditions. Finally, within-shell trends in isotopic amplitudes and averages may reflect decreases in growth rate rather than environmental fluctuations. Therefore, particular care should be taken when interpreting inter-annual isotope profiles from long-lived species.
10.2307/3515221|The predominantly fluvial strata of the Late Permian Beaufort Group in the southwestern Karoo Basin contain numerous fossils of therapsid reptiles. This study investigates the taphonomy of these fossils and the sedimentology of the floodplain deposits in which they are most commonly preserved. Taphonomic assessment of 329 in situ fossils along 3 cliff exposures included data on disarticulation, bone weathering, attitude of skulls, bone color, type of perimineralization and degree of pre-fossilization damage. This led to the recognition of 6 "taphonomic pathways" along which bones entered the rock record. Three floodplain facies, channel-bank, proximal floodplain and distal floodplain, that were previously defined on sedimentological and pedological criteria also have taphonomic ally discrete attritional bone assemblages. Localized concentrations of fossil bones are interpreted as evidence for the presence of waterholes on the innerbank levees and playa margins. Taphonomically anomalous, fully-articulated and paired Diictodon skeletons are preserved in burrow casts. A major influence on the taphonomic signature of each floodplain facies was the proximity of the burial site to the main channel, especially during episodes of channel avulsion, and the effect this had on the frequency and intensity of flooding and the overall rate of floodplain accretion. The former influenced disarticulation, transport and embedding of the bones whereas the latter determined their "residence time" on the floodplain before burial Attritional fossil assemblages in the proximal floodplain mudrocks probably accumulated over 100-1000 years during which time floodplain accretion was more than 5.5 mm/y. However, paleosols superimposed on these strata record periods of floodplain stasis lasting from 5000-10,000 years, when sediment accumulation was considerably less, more in the order of 0.4 mm/y. This study demonstrates the value of vertebrate taphonomy in providing additional information to support or contradict the paleoenvironmental interpretation of fluvial facies.
10.2307/3515255|We interpret biostratinomy of Silurian cephalopod limestone biofacies of the Prague Basin, Bohemia. Two facies types are recognized. One is the result of a surface current and the other one is the effect of redeposition within the current itself in a shallower environment during storm events. Orientation of cephalopod shells in these two facies types is discussed in relation to the Prague Basin development and to phenomena like telescoping, trap-structures and geopetal structures. Silurian cephalopod limestones of the northern Gondwana region show influence of equatorial surface currents which transported empty shells of cephalopods, larvae of bivalves and other fauna. These currents ventilated during low-stand events the elevated parts of the bottom and deposited there the cephalopod limestone levels. All the occurrences are accompanied by bivalve-dominated Cardiola Community Group. "Life is sometimes strange. We started this project in August 1990 in Prague, where we shared our spare time with Hermann Jaeger who was also working there. Now, just at the end of this work, we have lost a friend. To his memory this paper is dedicated."
10.2307/3514709|Upper Triassic patch reefs in the southern Yukon include tabular reefs, about 30 m thick, and semicircular and elongate reefs, over 100 m thick. The tabular reefs consist predominantly of framework built by small calcareous sponges, spongiomorphs, and corals; they are designated as framework buildups, analogous, in a genetic sense, to modern coral reefs. On the other hand, framework is a minor component of the semicircular and elongate reefs, which consist predominantly of skeletal sediment. The skeletal sediment of these reefs is interpreted as a local accumulation of small and disarticulated organisms produced independently of reef framework. Consequently, sediment producers, rather than framebuilding fossils, are inferred to have been the primary builders of these structures, designated as sediment buildups genetically analogous to modern algal bioherms. The sediment buildups in the Yukon are similar to upper Rhaetian patch reefs in Austria. However, the origin of the Austrian reefs has been attributed to framebuilding fossils and sediment producers have not been identified as important reef builders.
10.2307/3515474|The combined analysis of the sedimentary structures, internal depositional geometries, and microfacies of uppermost Tortonian/lowermost Messinian shallow-marine carbonates (Agua Amarga Basin, southern Spain) has aided in unraveling the geological record of a highly dynamic ramp environment. The biogenic BRYOMOL association with large benthic foraminifers inhabited a warm, temperate climate (17-20). Sediment distribution was governed by physical parameters, and redistribution and mixing of particles blurred original biogenic zonations. Thus, although the carbonate factory can be localized on the mid ramp based upon sedimentary structures and depositional textures, sediment composition is quite uniform over the depositional profile, and only qualitative paleontological evidence exists for the original presence of seagrass patches (benthic foraminifers, biomuration fabrics in bryozoans). Originally aragonitic biota (i.e., molluscs), quantitatively important in all Cenozoic shallow-marine environments, were dissolved during or soon after deposition and left no significant trace in the fossil record. Consequently, the diagenetic potential of the sediments was low, and the deposits remained essentially unlithified for a long period. During lowstands and transgressions, particles were partly reworked from previously deposited material. Sediment compositions within these units are increasingly biased toward concentrations of mechanically more resistant carbonate grains as a function of many deposition and exhumation cycles. In line with taphonomic experiments, nodular (celle-poriform) bryozoans disappear before robust and delicate branching bryozoans. Resistant grains include echinoderm ossicles, bivalve shell materials (calcitic), foraminifers, balanids, and non-carbonate particles. The quantitative proportions of these grains have been used to define microtaphofacies (new term). Particle and, therefore, sequence dynamics of temperate carbonate-ramp systems resemble these in siliciclastic environments, and challenge the classic concept of (tropical) carbonate sequence stratigraphy. Careful microfacies analysis of temperate skeletal carbonate depositional systems and depositional sequences provides an important additional tool in further understanding the architecture of bioclastic carbonate bodies in the subsurface.
10.2307/3514694|Detailed study of Middle Devonian trilobites from New York State indicates that taphonomic attributes are distributed nonrandomly among the strata and therefore may be used to characterize different taphofacies (i.e., facies defined on the basis of diagnostic taphonomic traits). Environments near normal wave base are represented by bioclastic deposits in which sclerites are disarticulated and fragmented, and display hydrodynamically stable postures (Taphofacies 1). Slightly deeper water environments, characterized by high sedimentation rates and pervasive deep bioturbation, generated assemblages of dominantly disarticulated remains with isolated occurrences of articulated trilobite remains (Taphofacies 2). Shelly concentrations form thin but prominent layers that alternate with barren mudstone interbeds (Taphofacies 3). Facies 3A is characterized by scavenger disarticulation and an abundance of articulated remains (sediment starvation). Facies 3B displays disarticulated remains in hydrodynamically stable postures and a general absence of articulated remains (sediment bypass). The most distal (deep-water) environments are represented by assemblages dominated by articulated trilobite remains (Taphofacies 4). Differences in the taphonomy of articulated remains may be related to inferred sedimentation rates as follows: Taphofacies 4A assemblages are characterized by a predominance of moult remains (commonly as intact ensembles) and display evidence for low rates of sedimentation. Taphofacies 4B assemblages indicate moderate rates of background sedimentation and yield abundant enrolled trilobites, typically associated with syngenetic pyrite. Taphofacies 4C reflects high rates of sedimentation; articulated remains are relatively common, but skeletal concentration is minimal. Taphonomic features provide criteria by which relative rates of sedimentation and bathymetry may be inferred. The taphofacies concept, therefore, constitutes a useful tool in the recognition and understanding of environmental processes and products.
10.2307/3515080|Metazoa evolved in shallow water seas in the late Precambrian, and there was a concomitant increase in abundance and diversity of trace fossils that reached very high levels by the Early Cambrian. There may have been some colonization of deep water, as evidenced by the "softbodied" fauna at Mistaken Point, Newfoundland but it was mostly by sessile animals which left few trace fossils. Shallow water late Precambrian and Early Cambrian sequences have yielded not only shallow water trace fossils but also many examples of traces typical of later deep water deposits. Significant colonization of the deep oceans by trace making animals was, however, delayed until the Early Ordovician. There followed a gradual increase in ichnogeneric diversity through much of the Phanerozoic, with an acceleration from the Cretaceous through the Tertiary. The apparent migration of deep water forms from their origins in shallow water out to the deep sea was accompanied by their virtual disappearance from shallow water, thereby providing an early example of "retreat." There is no consistent evidence to indicate that behavioral optimization of deepsea traces developed gradually during the Phanerozoic. Indeed, most lineages of deepsea traces reached a high level of behavioral development by the early Cambrian or even late Precambrian. Some shallow water traces appeared temporarily in the deep ocean during the Lower Paleozoic but more significant onshore-offshore migrations of ichnogenera such as Ophiomorpha and Thalassinoides took place from the Cretaceous onwards. Detailed investigations of Mesozoic and Tertiary deepsea sand fans in the last fifteen years have revealed a relationship between the ichnofaunas and depositional sub-environments. Submarine canyons and the inner parts of fans commonly contain a low diversity ichnofauna with a preponderance of shallow water types such as Ophiomorpha and Thalassinoides. Middle fan sub-environments have a mixed ichnofauna of shallow and deep water types, with particularly high diversity in interchannel areas. Outer fan and fan fringe sub-environments rarely have shallow water traces but deep water forms are abundant and diverse.
25835629|Geophysical methods can be used to identify the frequency and spatial distribution of plant debris, as well as for the study of the development of such accumulations in recent depositional settings. Side-scan sonar and a sub-bottom profiler were used to generate acoustic images of plant macroremains along a 16.9 km stretch of the meandering course of the Preto River in the municipality of Itanham. So Paulo, Brazil. Numerous inclined heterolithic stratification (IHS) deposits with plant debris constitute point bars, while sand dunes mark the migration of the channel along the straighter portions of the river. A large concentration of methane gas was found associated with older organic sediments in the river. The acoustically generated results were confirmed by the analysis of cores with all data integrated into the geographic information system (GIS) environment. The present study is one of the first to apply the methods of geotechnology to taphonomic research.
20172996|The experimentally determined transportation characteristics of Nautilus pompilius shells by bottom currents reveal that planispiral cephalopod shells can be transported, reoriented, and restrained. Shells of N. pompilius become reoriented when the water flow is about 0.20 m / s, regardless of shell size, and are transported by the flow of 0.25-0.37 m / s, with velocity proportional to shell size. The shells are restrained in a strongly preferred orientation (aperture downstream). The transportation characteristics of various ammonoid groups differ based on differences in shell shape (especially drag coefficient in water). The shells of most ammonoids (especially leiostraca, serpenticones, and cadicones) had reorientation and threshold velocities similar to N. pompilius, and therefore were highly sensitive to paleo-bottom currents. The character and strength of paleo-bottom currents (direction and flow velocity) can be reconstructed from the taphonomic attributes of ammonoids (e.g., three-dimensional orientation within matrix, shell morphology, and ornamentation).
10.2307/3514618|The slow supra-species level evolution of nonmarine molluscs permits interpretation of paleoenvironments from the environmental constraints of taxonomically similar modern nonmarine molluscs. Therefore, nonmarine fossil molluscs provide a valuable paleoecological tool for understanding ancient depositional environments and their spatial and temporal distributions. This enhanced understanding of paleoenvironments combined with lithostratigraphy allows interpretation of the climatic and tectonic conditions that affected ancient lacustrine systems. Empirical and quantitative cluster analyses have defined recurring groups of molluscs (associations) from mollusc assemblages in the lacustrine Sheep Pass Formation complex. Molluscan associations were verified through taphonomic analyses. The paleoecology of molluscan associations is interpreted by taxonomic uniformitarianism applied at both autecological and synecological levels. The Valvata Hydrobia-Sphaeriidae (VHS) association has low diversity with only one species of each of these taxa per sample. These taxa are all gill-breathing and respire subaqueously. Modern analogs of the VHS association inhabit shallow, lowenergy lacustrine environments lacking emergent vegetation. The Lymnaeidae-Biomphalaria (LB) association has high species diversity and commonly occurs with terrestrial gastropods in an ecologically mixed assemblage. The taxa composing the LB association are lung-bearing and generally respire at the airwater interface. Modern analogs of the LB association inhabit shallow, ephemeral lacustrine environments with abundant emergent vegetation. A fauna analogous to the LB association occurs with terrestrial gastropods in marly bog lakes of Maine and form ecologically mixed assemblages similar to the assemblage of the LB association. The VHS association occurs stratigraphically below the LB association. The change in molluscan fauna indicates changing environments within the Sheep Pass lake basin, from a single larger lake with no emergent vegetation to numerous small ponds with abundant emergent vegetation within a wetland terrain.
10.2307/3514681|Research on fossils in the past four decades has greatly improved our understanding of the history of life. This has truly been the golden age of paleobiology, characterized by model-making and the testing of concepts. It has been a time of new techniques, great discoveries, synthesis, and the questioning and debating of ideas and directions long taken for granted. Every advance has exposed new opportunities to be explored. As each new species is discovered, we realize how much more we have to learn about the history of life and its contributions to our knowledge of the physical history of the earth. The prospects for continued advance will be excellent if we can overcome inhibiting factors that call for our attention. The most serious of these is the low state of science education for non=technical students, and the related public apathy toward our work. These lead, inevitably, to minimal funding and fewer job opportunities. It is suggested here that paleobiology would be well served if we help to improve general science education at the local and state levels, while simultaneously upgrading our public relations, thus ensuring that our institutions will be adequately funded. Although the potential of the fossil record is virtually inexhaustible, and our knowledge of the record woefully incomplete, there is a marked decline in monographic revisions of major groups about which the literature is no longer adequate for the challenges. Underlying this decline there is an alarming lack of public understanding of the place of basic science in American culture. We need to foster and encourage programs to counteract the negative trends and we must give greater emphasis to the documentary side of the history of life, the fossils themselves.
10.2307/3514908|Trichichnus, a thread-like burrow possibly the work of sipunculan worms, is widespread in Bouma E (turbidite claystone) and H (hemipelagic claystone) layers and some thin turbidite sandstone beds in basin-plain and outer fan-lobe deposits of the Mamoso-arenacea Formation. Trichichnus closely resembles that described elsewhere in chalk and marlstone, although the burrows are smaller (mean diameter = 0.13 mm) and burrow curvature is tighter. Trichichnus fills are darker than the host claystone because of high organic content and disseminated pyrite. Any distinctive internal structure of the burrow wall or fill was destroyed by pyrite growth. Trichichnus is most abundant in Bouma E layers, where burrow spacing ranges from 0.4 to 50 cm and burrows extend to depths of 160 cm. The Trichichnus maker commonly burrowed vertically down through E and D layers (clay and silt) and then horizontally on top of C layers (sand). The burrows also vertically penetrate Bouma C sandstone layers up to 6 cm thick, but they are rare in beds thicker than 3 cm. They are less abundant or not well displayed in H layers where Chondrites predominates. Trichichnus overprints Chondrites. Following deposition of the Contessa megaturbidite, which exceeds 9 m in thickness, the sediment surface was repopulated chiefly by Trichichnus and Chondrites producers. Trichichnus extends 160 cm below the top of the Contessa, whereas Chondrites extends only to 64 cm. This suggests a greater tolerance of Trichichnus makers to low in situ oxygen levels. The near absence of laminations in the E division of the Contessa megabed may be the result of Trichichnus burrows that were not pyritized and which lack textural identity.
40606438|A trace fossil with its putative in situ maker, a redlichiid juvenile of Eoredlkhia intermedia Lu, 1940 from the lower Cambrian (Series 2) Chengjiang fauna, southwestern China, is reported here. Evidence for biogenetic linkage of the trail to the trilobite includes their close, integrated association, in situ preservation, and consistent dimensions.Analysis from Scanning Electron Microscopy further strengthens this argument. Preservation mechanism and fidelity loss in the trail are considered. In light of functional morphology, a nektonic-benthic transition in modes of life is inferred for meraspides of Eoredlichia.
10.2307/3515075|Foraminifera commonly dominate ocean-floor eukaryotic communities. They also are the most abundant benthic organisms to be preserved in the post-Paleozoic deep-sea fossil record. Living faunas contain numerous delicate, soft-bodied agglutinated forms which have virtually no fossilization potential, whereas fossil faunas usually consist of calcareous and more robust agglutinated taxa. Recent observations have emphasized the important, often active role that foraminifera play in the dynamics and structuring of deep-sea benthic ecosystems. Foraminiferal abundances are closely linked to levels of organic matter input, and to dissolved oxygen concentrations in the near-bottom water which, in part, are related inversely to the magnitude of organic fluxes. Food and oxygen requirements also control the microhabitat preferences of species, which are reflected in their test morphology. Thus, the abundance of modern species, species assemblages, and test morphotypes can be related to regional organic carbon inputs and oxygen concentrations. Specific assemblages are often associated with particular kinds of input (for example, phytodetrital pulses) or with low-oxygen settings. These biological observations have applications in paleoceanography. Quaternary and Neogene faunas contain many extant species, preserving an environmental signal that can be interpreted by analogy with modern assemblages. In older sediments, which contain few extant species, morphotype analysis provides a useful approach. Autecological observations on living calcareous species also provide the basis for interpreting the stable carbon isotope record. Further research and collaborative interactions between biologists and geologists should help to improve understanding of the paleoceanographic record.
27670586|Lower Triassic carbonate sedimentary rocks exhibit fabrics and facies indicative of reduced bioturbation and reduced abundance of skeletal animals and algae relative to their Permian counterparts. Widespread microbial mounds are one widely cited example. Micritic spheroids of probable microbial origin occur at a few horizons in the Spathian (uppermost Lower Triassic) Virgin Limestone Member of the Moenkopi Formation, exposed in southern Nevada. These spheroids (312 mm) consist of an irregular framework of micrite clots up to 100 m in diameter and micrite-walled filaments 10 m wide and <500 m long. Based upon their microstructure, we suggest that these microbial spheroids formed through the rapid microbial precipitation of calcium carbonate from seawater. As such, they probably represent unattached analogues of Early Triassic microbial mounds. The microbial spheroids formed and lithified rapidly in shallow-water, high-energy settings. Their presence, in concert with other carbonate microbialites from the Moenkopi, is consistent with the observation that microbially mediated precipitation was an important carbonate depositional mode in the aftermath of the end-Permian mass extinction.
40606460|A bathymetrie transect ranging from coral habitats down to a 1500-mdeep basin in the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden allows us to test the sensitivity of taphofacies to depth and sediment grain size in a tropical to subtropical carbonate basin, to partition variation in brachiopod preservation into extrinsic (environmental) and intrinsic (shell-specific) components, and to quantify residual variation that remains unexplained by such components. Factoring out environmental effects, thin-shelled, organic-poor rhynchonellids are more affected by fragmentation and finescale surface alteration and degrade rapidly compared to the more frequently bioeroded, organic-rich terebratulids. The negative role of shell organic content is overridden by shell thickness, and preservation rates of organic-rich brachiopods are enhanced by syndepositional cement precipitation. Environmental trends in preservation are confounded by shell-specific factors that account for 16% of variation in preservation: the amounts of multivariate variation explained by environment increase from 29% using combined brachiopod preservation to 46% using terebratulid preservation. Environmental sensitivity of taphofacies is driven by present-day variation in environment but also by past Pleistocene conditions. First, reduction in fragmentation, encrustation, and bioerosion is consistent with a decrease in light penetration and primary productivity. Second, brachiopods are coated with aragonite cement in basinal sites with lithified oozes and microbial carbonates that originated during the last glacial maximum when syndepositional aragonite cementation was favored by high temperature and salinity, and thus can be affected by millennial-scale time averaging. Skeletal preservation rates are thus not in steady state over the duration of time averaging, and the bathymetric reduction in alteration is partly related to past conditions amenable to cement precipitation.
40865499|Integrated Ocean Drilling Program (IODP) Expedition 311 at the Cascadia Margin, northeastern Pacific, provides an excellent opportunity to study the response of carbon isotopie compositions of benthic foraminifers to episodic methane seep events in a gas hydrate geosystem. The shallow infauna benthic foraminifer species Uvigerina peregrina and Bulimina mexicana collected from five sites (U1325, U1326, U1327, U1328, and U1329) exhibit dramatic negative carbon isotopie excursions (-0.75   to -2.74% a, -1.11%* to -2.62<% w, -0.51% o to -2.75%* -0.58% oto -2.71% a, and -3.32% orespectively) and positive oxygen isotopie anomalies (3.27% o to 4.91% o, 3.16% o to 4.78% o, 3.37  %  to 4.88% o, 3.45% o to and 3.4% o to 4.88% o respectively). Results indicate that gas hydrate dissociation influenced the dissolved inorganic carbon of the pore water via anaerobic oxidation of methane. SEM analysis of foraminifer tests and the comparative carbon isotopie analysis of previous works on this subject indicate minimal alteration caused by diagenesis and authigenic carbonate precipitation. Carbon and oxygen isotopie values of these two species at Site U1327, U1328, and U1329 show episodic stratigraphie fluctuations, suggesting episodic gas hydrate dissociation and methane release possibly related to 100 ka sea-level fluctuations. C of these two species at Site U1325 and U1326 at the stage of gas hydrate formation show one and two events of methane release respectively, indicating methane seeps occurred in the recent millennium probably because of the lowered sea level. The negative O excursions and positive O anomalies of benthic foraminifers could be indicators of episodic methane seep events associated with gas hydrate dissociation in marine gas hydrate geosystems.
10.2307/3515149|The taphonomic loss of soft-bodied organisms and ubiquitous time averaging make reconstruction of ecological interactions in fossil communities difficult. This study employs an actualistic analysis of epibiont communities on scallops to infer preservation potential and life-span overlap in ancient epibiont associations. Spirorbid, serpulid, and sabellid annelids, sponges, barnacles, and cheilostome and cyclostome bryozoans form dense covers on the scallops Chlamys hastata and C. rubida in moderately deep waters around San Juan Island, Washington. Serpulids, spirorbids, cyclostomes, and cheilostomes dominate on lower surfaces of living scallops and on the interiors of dead shells. In some instances, up to 100% of the areal epibiont cover on these surfaces would likely be preserved in the fossil record. In contrast, live specimens of Chlamys were covered on their upper surfaces (left valves) by encrusting sponge, barnacles and the agglutinated tubes of sabellid polychaetes. Assemblages from these surfaces had correspondingly low preservation potential. Sponge disappeared rapidly after death of the host and valves previously encrusted by sponge were particularly clean and unfouled. On most Chlamys shell surfaces, one third to one half of the epibiont cover on a shell at a given time is composed of skeletons of dead organisms. Observed overgrowths resulted primarily from organisms encrusting dead organisms and organisms growing over mineralized portions of other live epibionts. This study, unlike some paleoecological studies, found few unambiguous examples of competitive interactions.
10.2307/3515218|A bed of Late Pliocene age from west central Florida is dominated by smoothed, bioeroded and broken colonies of the coral Septastrea crassa (Holmes). This bed appears to have formed as a result of the destruction of a coral thicket by one or more severe storms over a relatively short period of time. The coralla surfaces were "sandblasted" during the storm(s) and smoothed. The shattered thicket was then subjected to bioerosion for an estimated period of 25-30 years, before being buried relatively quickly by an influx of sediment, possibly by a migrating sand wave. The coral grew upon and was in turn grown upon by a variety of encrusting organisms including barnacles, bryozoans and oysters. The coral bed is continuous with both overlying and underlying assemblages allowing reconstruction of its paleoenvironmental setting and history. Fossil Septastrea crassa thickets preserved elsewhere display different patterns of physical wear and bioerosion, indicating that this coral bed experienced a different mode of formation.
40865494|Sequence stratigraphic analysis of Pennsylvanian coal-bearing strata suggests that glacial-interglacial fluctuations at high latitudes drove cyclic changes in tropical biomes. A literature review of plant assemblages in this paleoclimatic context suggests that coal forests dominated during humid interglacial phases, but were replaced by seasonally dry vegetation during glacial phases. After each glacial event, coal forests reassembled with largely the same species composition. This remarkable stasis implies that coal-forest refugia existed across the equatorial landscape during glacial phases, expanding to repopulate lowlands during and following deglaciation. One possibility is that refugia comprised small pockets of wetland forest strung out along valleys at some sites, but data are currently insufficient to test this hypothesis. The model presented here, if accepted, dramatically alters our understanding of the coal forests and helps explain aspects of their dynamics.
3515811|Historically, sandy paleochannel deposits of the 2,000 m-thick Ferris (Maastrichtian-Danian: 66-62 Ma) and over-lying 3,000 m-thick Hanna Formation (Danian-Thanetian: 62-55 Ma) in southern Wyoming's Hanna and Carbon basins have been interpreted as fluvial channel fills. New selachian paleofaunas from both formations are concentrated in stratigraphic intervals that also exhibit an abundance of mechanical tidal indicators and low-diversity marine ichnofossil assemblages (indicating brackish-water). Their presence in these two continental formations supports the reinterpretation of some sandy paleochannel deposits and shaly intervals as brackish-water estuaries, tidally influenced distributary channels, and interdistributary bays. Cederstroemia and Cretorectolobus are reported for the first time from Maastrichtian deposits (they previously have been documented only from Campanian and older strata). A new species of dasyatid is preserved in the middle Ferris Formation (earliest Paleocene: 64 Ma) and awaits fuller description. Prior interpretations of the Hanna Basin area as being far removed from the influences of the Western Interior Sea (WIS) during the latest Cretaceous and Paleocene must now be re-evaluated. New paleogeographic reconstructions of the western shoreline of the WIS, based in part on the stratigraphic and geographic distribution of selachian teeth in the Hanna Basin area, suggest that a complete marine regression and continental draining at the end of the Cretaceous did not occur. When combined with sedimentological and ichnological data, selachian tooth assemblages are useful tools for interpreting depositional environments and for basin-scale research.
3515668|The presence of original organic matter and retention of an indigenous isotopic signal in fossils have been disputed for years. An experiment was conducted to evaluate the influence of diagenesis on bone-protein isotope values, analyses were conducted on Holocene and Pleistocene fossils from Natural Trap Cave (NTC), Wyoming. Modern cow, Bos taurus, bone was heated with and without excess water for up to 195 hours at 100C in an inert atmosphere. Collagen and non-collagenous proteins (NCP) were extracted and analyzed isotopically. Under dry conditions, carbon and nitrogen isotope values change by less than 0.4 during the 0 to 195 hour interval. In the presence of excess water, carbon and nitrogen isotope values change by no more than 1.0 and 0.5, respectively, over 192 hours. The relative abundance of amino acids of collagen from heated bone differs by less than 10% from that of unheated collagen. Protein preservation is indicated by matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization mass spectrometry (MALDI-MS) that strongly indicates a portion of the original osteocalcin exists intact in samples heated for 195 hours. Good preservation of collagen in NTC fossils is implied by high collagen yields, C:N, and realistic trophic structures based on isotope values. Carbon and nitrogen isotope values of ancient collagen increase with trophic level, allow dietary assessments to be made, and differentiate between ruminant and non-ruminants. The results indicate that isotope values are resilient during simulated diagenesis and suggest that an indigenous isotopic signal can exist in well-preserved fossils such as those from NTC.
3515396|At Flaming Cliffs - a famous vertebrate locality in southern Mongolia - sand grains in red sandstones of fluvial and eolian origin within the Upper Cretaceous Djadokhta Formation are coated with detrital clay. The nearest correlative marine deposits are thousands of kilometers distant. Structureless sandstones with stringers and lenses of reworked caliche pebbles lie laterally adjacent to sets of eolian cross-strata up to 20 m thick. These pebbly sandstones, interpreted as the deposits of intermittent streams that occupied interdune positions, contain abundant Ophiomorpha. Burrows are 1 to 3 cm in diameter, with a knobby exterior. The traces occur not only as simple tubes, but also as Teichichnus-like spreiten, produced by the systematic upward and lateral migration of a spiral burrow. Spreiten can reach vertical extents greater than 3 m and widths of 30 cm. Although they commonly appear in stratal sequences that contain no mudstone beds, many of the burrows are filled by mud. The best modern analog is provided by freshwater crustaceans that excavate deep burrows to the water table in order to escape desiccation during drought. Mud was emplaced during fluvial flood events when the open, near-vertical shafts acted as storm sewers through the vadose zone. Spreiten probably were generated by systematic offsets from the original burrow axis during repeated re-excavations. One mechanism for emplacing detrital clays in sandstones calls upon infiltration of muddy water through the vadose zone during flood events. The burrow fills within the fluvial facies of the Djadokhta Formation provide corroborative, independent evidence for the passage of muddy water through the strata. Like the Callianassa burrows that fill with coarse, shelly debris during the passage of Caribbean hurricanes ("tubular tempestites"), burrows in continental settings also can provide unique testimony to important depositional events and early diagenetic processes.
10.2307/3514798|The endosymbiotic association between the heart cockle, Clinocardium nuttalli, and an endosymbiotic green alga (zoochlorella) was investigated in the field and laboratory. Specimens were obtained from False Bay, San Juan Island, Washington. Infaunal clams did not contain symbionts while slightly larger and older semi-infaunal individuals harbored algae in siphonal and mantle tissues. Epifaunal clams were the largest and oldest (up to six years old) and contained the greatest concentration of algae. The three mode-of-life groups apparently represent an ontogenetic continuum with progressive emergence from the substrate related to the acquisition of algal symbionts after the clams' second year of life. No symbiont-induced effects were observed on either shell growth rates or on oxygen and carbon isotopic composition of shell carbonate. Several aspects of the photosymbiotic relationship of C. nuttalli (and other photosymbiont-bearing bivalves) contradict ecological, morphological, geochemical, and life history characteristics traditionally used to recognize such associations in the fossil record. While these characteristics remain valid as supporting arguments for suspected cases of paleophotosymbiosis, paleontologists are cautioned that numerous photosymbiotic taxa do not display these characteristics and hence many cases of paleophotosymbiosis probably go undetected. Paleontologists are encouraged to develop better criteria for recognizing photosymbiotic molluscan hosts.
10.2307/3514498|Binary similarity coefficients are used widely in paleontology and biostratigraphy for analysis of multivariate data, especially in conjunction with cluster analysis. Cluster analysis of large geological data sets is employed to convey information about relative distances of grouping within the data. The statistical significance of grouped associations can be determined if a coefficient yields a distribution of values that approximates a binomial distribution. Yet some coefficients currently in use do not yield approximations to binomial distributions (e.g., the Jaccard coefficient). This departure from a binomial distribution is most apparent when coefficient values are based upon a small number of variables per sample-a condition that is an unfortunate but common attribute of geological data. Nevertheless, analyses of empirically derived distributions allow comparison of values computed by different coefficients. In decreasing order of utility and faithfulness of data representation for  50% "1"s, we rank the co-efficients tested as Simple Matching, Hamann, Baroni-Urbani and Buser, Dice, Braun-Blanquet, and Simpson. The Jaccard coefficient should be used with caution because of its peculiarities and its nonbinomial distribution irrespective of the number of variables used.
3514505|Radiolarians show potential value as indicators of neritic versus oceanic conditions in Cenozoic continental-margin deposits. Analyses of radiolarian assemblages from the lower to middle Miocene Calvert Formation (mid-Atlantic Coastal Plain) produce convincing evidence that indicates increasingly neritic environments upward through the section. The Calvert assemblage consists of 44 taxa, dominated by spongy spumellarians (typical of modern shelf waters). Radiolarian diversity and the ratio of nassellarians to spumellarians decrease upward through the section. Family group distribution in the Calvert assemblage appears to differ from normal pelagic radiolarian distribution. Also, certain subsurface-dwelling radiolarian taxa found in the lower, phosphatic portion of the section may indicate upwelling during deposition of that interval.
3515779|A taphonomic investigation of a fossil assemblage near Coleman, Texas, U.S.A., has revealed a rarely seen part of the cephalopod taphonomic pathway. The cephalopods occur in a brown shale with a low-diversity, gastropod-dominated fauna that is mixed together with a conifer-seed ferndominated terrestrial flora. All of the cephalopod shells (n=2000+) are damaged. The brown shale is interpreted as representing a brackish-water or quiet, muddy beach environment, based in part on the delicate three-dimensional preservation of the terrestrial plant debris and the absence of stenohaline benthic marine fauna. Most upper Paleozoic cephalopods (especially ammonoids) are thought to have lived in offshore (middle to outer shelf) environments. The environmental interpretation and the massive damage observed on the cephalopod shells support the interpretation that this cephalopod fauna has been transported from one or more distant offshore biotopes. These cephalopods had shells with positively buoyant conchs that floated after death onto the mud beach, where they were trapped in a Konzentrat fossil-Lagersttte with the indigenous gastropod fauna and a well-preserved terrestrial flora. The significance of this taphonomic analysis is the documentation of a transported cephalopod fauna from an offshore biotope to a paleoshoreline environment. By studying the Coleman cephalopods, a specific criterion for assessing the type and degree of shell damage for beached fossil assemblages has been developed; e.g., predominance of fragmentary shells (Type D). The criterion can be used to evaluate the taphonomy of other cephalopod faunas around the world.
10.2307/3515060|Study of the primary reefal cavities preserved ubiquitously within the Permian Capitan Limestone leads to a profound reappraisal of the ecology, diagenesis and construction of the Capitan reef. Contrary to established opinion, most calcareous sponges (such as the sphinctozoans Guadalupia spp., Amblysiphonella spp., Cystauletes spp. and Lemonia spp.) did not grow upright in thickets to form a reef framework or bafflestone. Rather they were pendant cryptobionts inhabiting cavities, often in considerable abundance. In addition to this distinctive cryptic community, the framework of the reef was constructed in part by microbially-bound sediment, with the walls and ceilings of the cavities frequently supported by fenestellid and ramose bryozoans. Crypts were strengthened and filled by extensive precipitation of syn-sedimentary cements (botryoids and isopachous fibrous cements) combined with algal encrustation, predominantly Archaeolithoporella. Like modern reefs, the Capitan reef biota was thus strongly differentiated into two communities: open surface and cryptic. Our reinterpretation of the ecology of the reef has far-reaching implications for reef construction, and also for sediment supply and facies geometries of adjacent lithosomes. The presence of abundant fragile and delicate skeletons in the reef does not imply tranquil conditions given their cryptic location. We suggest here that the Capitan reef was a wave resistant and highly porous structure. A shallow-water origin for the reef is also supported by the rapid overall rate of carbonate accumulation calculated for the platform as a whole. As in modern coralgal reefs, much of the overall diversity of the Capitan reef was housed within cryptic niches. Indeed, some fossil reefdwelling organisms previously interpreted as open surface frame-builders, including Paleozoic sphinctozoans sponges, were in fact more common as cryptobionts. Yet even though crypts are an almost ubiquitous component of both modern and fossil reefs, description of fossil cryptic biotas receives relatively little attention. The presence of a well-developed cryptos in the Permian Capitan reef complex, as well as isolated reports from other Phanerozoic reefs, suggests that an appraisal of the ecology of crypts is vital to an understanding of ancient reef ecology.
10.2307/3514789|Extant shell-drilling naticid gastropods are highly selective predators, choosing prey in accord with a model based on relative cost:benefit ratios (Kitchell et al., 1981). However, prey are not evaluated based on individual experiences; drilling instead follows stereotyped rules that are not modified by training. Stereotyped behavior of extant naticids includes selectivity of drillhole site on the prey shell and prey size. Such stereotypy may have developed over geologic time. This study determines whether predation by Miocene naticid gastropods of the Chesapeake Group was stereotyped and predictable by the Kitchell et al. (1981) model. Predation by Chesapeake Group naticids was highly selective with respect to prey size and drillhole site. This stereotypy increased the probability of successful predation by the naticids. Prey taxa showing the greatest selectivity of site and size also displayed the greatest rates of successful predation. Corbula exhibited the least size and site specificity and was preyed upon least successfully. Corbula is also the taxon for which predation was not readily predictable by the Kitchell et al. (1981) naticid prey preference model. The poor predictability of predation on Corbula is attributed to the presence of a conchiolin layer within the shell that may act as a deterrent to predation. Predation on four other prey genera was predictable by the model; naticids chose prey with the lowest cost:benefit ratios. Stereotypy of predation thus appears to have been well developed in the Miocene.
40960984|The Sun River Bonebed is a monodominant assemblage of late juvenile lambeosaurine elements from the Upper Cretaceous Two Medicine Formation of north-central Montana, United States. Detailed excavation revealed an unusual paleobiologic and depositional signature. Although the bonebed occurs in a succession of beds representing anastomosing stream deposits in a seasonal paleoenvironment, the assemblage consists of a conglomerate of bone and calcareous clasts in a matrix of silty mud and free-floating sand grains. Internally, the bed exhibits normal grading of bone and calcareous clasts, poor sediment sorting, and preferred orientation of elongate elements, all characteristics common to debris flow deposits. The mud-rich matrix, poor sorting, and graded clasts of the bonebed suggest the assemblage was entrained and deposited by a cohesive debris flow, perhaps initiated through entrainment of fine overbank sediment by a seasonal flood. Nearly complete skeletal disarticulation and weathering of some bones indicate a brief period of postmortem exposure prior to debris flow entrainment. Fracture styles suggesting fresh breaks and frequent abrasion may reflect pre-flow trampling or chaotic flow transport. A significant number of elements also exhibit wet rot. The uniformity in taphonomic effects among elements suggests a mass mortality event, a rarity for debris-flow-hosted bonebeds, though the specific cause of death is uncertain. The age class dominance is interpreted to reflect original paleobiology, rather than abiotic postmortem selection, and establishes the Sun River Bonebed as the first bonebed of predominantly late juvenile material, with no adult material, in the Two Medicine Formation.
10.2307/3515116|The taphonomic condition of the corals Acropora cervicornis and A. palmata obtained from two facies of the late Pleistocene Cockburn Town fossil reef was compared to that of modern subfossil specimens of the same taxa collected from analagous environments. The extent of coverage by potentially preservable and preserved encrusting organisms (coralline algae, worm tubes, bryozoans and corals) and borer organisms (clionid sponges, lithophagid bivalves) was recorded. The degree to which the material had been abraded by a variety of processes was also recorded. Results revealed that the Holocene corals were significantly ( = 0.05) more degraded than those preserved in the Pleistocene facies, suggesting that the Pleistocene corals were exposed on the sea floor for less time than the Holocene material currently residing on the sea floor. The recent history of the reefs from which the Holocene corals were collected suggests this interval to be less than ten years; however, sedimentologic evidence indicates that a single storm event buried and killed the Cockburn Town reef during late Pleistocene time. The taphonomic analysis presented here supports this conclusion.
10.2307/3514564|Macroscopic bioerosion traces (macro-borings) occur abundantly in calcareous algal biolithites (stromatolites) that were deposited in Pleistocene (0.7 to 1.9 m.y.a.) lake-margin environments west and east of Lake Turkana, Kenya, in the northern part of the Gregory Rift Valley. The macroborings are restricted to laminated carbonate substrates, and they include two forms: nearly straight, occasionally branched, cylindrical shafts, referred to the ichnogenus Trypanites; and arcuate, festooned, spreiten borings, referred herein to the new ichnogenus and ichnospecies Sertaterebrites nachukui. This is the first report of Trypanites in a nonmarine setting and the first report of true spreiten borings in any ancient setting. The creators of the borings are presumed to be invertebrate animals, and, in fact, similarities between the two ichnotaxa suggest that both could have been made by the same organism. However, because no modern animals have been discovered in the process of making such traces, their affinity is unknown. The borings were excavated in algal biolithites developed along the margins of a precursor to modern Lake Turkana. These biolithites are abundant in the Early Pleistocene sequence of the Turkana Basin, occurring in over 25 stra-tigraphic levels. The biolithites occur variously as ovoidal, spheroidal, or hemispheroidal heads or as polygonal pavements of laminated, biochemically precipated, low-magnesium calcite.
40606442|Biostratinomic and bone-diagenesis parameters are used to evaluate the effects of abiotic and biotic processes on the final composition of two late Eocene vertebrate assemblages preserved in a swampy circum-lake environment from the Zambrana site (Basque-Cantabrian Region, northern Iberian Peninsula). No significant transport or bone sorting by fluvial action is observed, and complete and fragmentary bones in the assemblages (Z4 and Z6 beds) show the same biostratinomic features. The attritional bone accumulation in both excavated beds was caused mostly by biotic factors related to routine ecological deaths of population members, probably with some input from predators on the most vulnerable ungulate individuals (autochthonous), although a weak input of small remains by superficial water currents from nearby areas (parautochthonous) cannot be rejected. The vegetation and wet conditions of the swampy environment, together with possible predator and scavenger activity, could have caused the disarticulation and dispersion of some vertebrate remains, mainly those of ungulates. The bones were buried relatively quickly in the phreatic zone under reducing conditions and suffered considerable crushing and fragmentation because of lithostratigraphic compaction. Mineralogic similarities between sedimentary fillings in the fossils and the host sediment, as well as the homogeneous rare earth element (REE) trends of the fossils, are indicative of a uniform and unique diagenetic history and the absence of reworked elements. The fossil bone mineral is well-crystallized francolite (carbonate fluorapatite). The REE enrichment of bones and their calcite and pyrite crusts and fillings were formed during early diagenetic phases. The black coloration of the bones may be explained by their high hydrocarbon (n-alkane components) contents.
10.2307/3515056|The association between mound-building, benthic microbial communities and siliceous sponges is characteristic of some reef mounds of Early Cambrian, Early-Middle Ordovician, Late Silurian, Late Devonian, Late Mississippian, Late Permian, Late Triassic and Late Jurassic age. Significant episodes of siliceous sponge-microbe reef mound construction, each lasting 5-15 Ma, generally recurred at intervals of approximately 70-100 Ma. Each was a time when thrombolite-forming and/or stromatolite-forming calcimicrobes flourished as constructors, and associated demosponges and hexactinellid sponges diversified as bafflers and binders, and even constructors on the reef mounds. The siliceous sponge-microbe biotic association flourished in subtropical/tropical marine, generally low turbulent, nutrient-rich, deeper subtidal environments (largely below storm wave base). This biotic association shows a temporal change in paleoenvironmental preference through the Phanerozoic from generally inner- to mid-shelf Cambrian and Ordovician examples to both mid-shelf and foreslope environs in the Silurian, Devonian and Carboniferous to predominantly distal shelf and slope settings in Permian, Late Triassic and Late Jurassic examples. The occurrences of these episodes of reef mound construction near the culminations of substantial marine transgressions indicates that extrinsic controls associated with sea level change, such as their spatial association with stratified basin waters and fluctuating oxygen-minimum zones, may have been important in microbial reef mound establishment. During successive sea level high-stands the deeper water siliceous sponge-microbe reef mound community appears to have flourished in proximal foreslopes and extensive drowned shelves and ramps in areas where, at lowstand, reef-building metazoans such as stromatoporoids, corals and calcareous sponges usually predominated. The resurgence of the siliceous spongemicrobe community suggests the recurrence of similar conditions of depth, nutrient conditions, and other subtle physical and chemical controls. These were, in part, controlled by tectonic influences during the evolution of Paleozoic and early Mesozoic seas.
10.2307/3514535|The fossil record of cryptobionts (cryptic organisms) in various kinds of hard substrates spans the Phanerozoic, with the oldest known at present from Ordovician and early Cambrian reefs and reef mounds. The earliest cryptobiontic assemblages support views that there probably was only very weak polarization of surface-exposed and cryptic communities in the early Paleozoic; by the middle Paleozoic polarization seems to have increased, but did not reach levels comparable to that seen in modern reefs until at least the Mesozoic. There are few accounts of cryptobionts in Cambrian and Ordovician reefs and reef mounds, but some generalizations can be made: 1) early Paleozoic cryptic communities were of low to moderate diversity by the standards of the time; 2) cryptobiontic assemblages generally reflected the makeup of the reef surface assemblages, but there appear to be differences in the importance of some groups within cavities compared to outside; 3) the earliest cryptobionts were micro-organisms or very small metazoa; larger cryptobionts are either uncommon, or are dubious cryptobionts.
10.2307/3515524|The brachiopod genus Sowerbyella is an abundant component of many Ordovician paleocommunities of the eastern United States. Five successive populations from a limited geographic region in central Kentucky were tested for the response of brachial valve size and shape to alterations inpaleoenvironmental conditions. The populations span the interval from Chatfieldian to Maysvillian (M5-C3), including the majority of an Ecological-Evolutionary (EE) subunit previously described for brachiopods in this area. A marked diminution in size occurs subsequent to maximum deepening in the M5 sequence, and is persistent for the remainder of the interval sampled. Shape follows a different pattern, with similar changes occurring each time deep-water facies occur in the area. Discriminant analysis shows a clear separation between populations sampled from nearshore and offshore facies along discriminant function 1. End member populations in both nearshore and offshore populations diverge significantly on discriminant function 2 over periods of 6.5 and 3.5 my, respectively, the longer period spanning the majority of the EE subunit. This contrasts with stasis in valve shape in Devonian brachiopods over an EE subunit of similar duration, but is in accordance with previous findings of less community-level stability in Ordovician EE subunits when compared with their Devonian counterparts.
10.2307/3514507|Because vertebrate tracks exposed in vertical outcrops are frequently overlooked or misinterpreted as physically induced deformation structures, important paleoecologic and sedimentologic information remains untapped. Laminations within eolian dune sands of the Nebraska Sand Hills (Holocene) and ephemeralstream deposits of the lower Arikaree Group (late Oligocene) are commonly broken or sharply downwarped to form isolated or paired, concave-up structures that vary from 4 to 22 cm in diameter. A central ridge divides the lower portion of some structures into two distinct lobes. Although bedding-plane exposures are rare in both deposits, extensive search revealed some structures in linear alignment, confirming a biogenic origin for the deformation. The Holocene tracks, probably made by bison, were repeatedly produced during the migration of the large eolian bedforms, suggesting that food and water were available in interdune areas. Smectite grain coatings made surface sands cohesive, thereby strongly influencing track morphology and enhancing preservation potential. Oligocene tracks were produced in very fine sand by several species of hoofed vertebrates. Close vertical spacing of track-bearing beds reveals that most sediment accumulated in relatively thin packages. The general absence of heavily trampled horizons (as would be expected along diastems) may be the result of rapid consolidation of sands by evaporite cementation. Tracks may have been produced during brief intervals of time immediately following deposition and preceding cementation.
41317444|A newly discovered vertebrate assemblage is reported from the Upper Pennsylvanian (mid-to upper Kasimovian) Conn Coal Member of the Mattoon Formation of southeast Illinois, United States. Teeth, scales, and spines of xenacanth (Dicentrodus, Orthacanthus, Triodus, Xena canthus) and euselachian (Sphenacanthus) sharks dominate the assemblage.Less common are the teeth, scales, and centra of holocephalan (Helodus) and actinopterygian fishes, together with rare tetrapod (mainly pelycosaur) phalanges and centra. The assemblage occurs within a broad, shaUow channel incised into a prominent Vertisol. The channel is interpreted as having been cut during a seasonally dry glacial phase when sea level was low, but filled during a subsequent transgression triggered by dglaciation. We interpret this as a brackish water (estuarine) assemblage, based on the co-occurrence of the vertebrate material with spirorbids (putative microconchids) and paleoecological inferences gleaned from a critical analysis of the literature dealing with Pennsylvanian fish ecology. This interpretation is broadly consistent with taphonomic data and the results of Sr/Sr isotope analysis of shark material. The pelycosaur material may have been reworked from the lowstand Vertisol, however, and these animals occupied dryland niches that developed during glacial phases.
27670339|Few shell-crushing predators can excavate prey living deep within the sediment. Despite this infaunal refuge from predators, many deep-burrowing bivalves display a strikingly high incidence of shell damage when compared with species living at shallower depths. A non-predatory origin is necessary to explain this high incidence of injury. To evaluate the generality of this hypothesis, repair frequency (number of repairs per shell), along with position and geometry, were determined for 68 Neogene bivalve species from the US Atlantic and Gulf Coastal Plain, seven of which are classified as deep burrowers (>20 cm depth of sediment penetration). Panopea bitruncata, Panopea floridana, Panopea reflexa, and Panopea americana, which are among the deepest burrowers (up to 100 cm), have repair frequencies (2.86.2) that are higher than any other species, while the value for Cyrtopleura costata (0.76) is exceeded only by semi-infaunal Atrina species (1.12). However, not all deep-burrowing species had such high incidences of damage. Two moderately deep-burrowing species (Anodontia alba and Tagelus plebeius; 2050 cm) showed repair frequencies (0.040.30) that overlapped the range (0.0010.52) for shallow-burrowing, semi-infaunal, and epifaunal species. Therefore, any generalizations about the relationship between depth of sediment penetrated and frequency of shell damage are inadvisable. Most scars on deep burrowers were not attributable to the direct activity of shell-crushing predators because: (1) injury occurred late in life when individuals were positioned in the safety of a deep burrow; (2) scar types consistent with a predatory origin were rare; and (3) scars frequently occurred on the anterior of the shell, which is least accessible to digging predators.
10.2307/3515204|The upper surface of an ooid grainstone within the Upper Pennsylvanian Hermosa Formation of southeastern Utah bears abundant borings and is encrusted by syringoporid coral colonies. Aragonite-dominated ooids were cemented on the sea floor by high magnesium calcite and were later leached by meteoric waters to form abundant oomolds. Two lines of evidence show that the bored, encrusted, marine-cemented surface is not a simple synsedimentary hardground: 1) The margins of the micrite-filled borings are mammillate: micrite fills truncated oomolds along the perimeter of the boring. Oomolds (and a leaching episode) therefore predate borings. 2) Rhizoliths within the ooid grainstone (previously interpreted as penetrating from a higher unconformity) are also bored along the encrusted surface, providing corroborative evidence of an exposure event that predated boring and postdated marine cementation. Rather than a sediment-starved episode within a transgressive sequence, this subtle subaerial exposure surface requires an additional cycle of relative sea level change within the marine portion of a Pennsylvanian cyclothem. Borings, long known to provide evidence on the timing of cementation, can also yield important evidence on the timing of dissolution events.
10.2307/3515327|The constant relationship between seawater salinity and boron concentration suggests that boron can be used as a measure of salinity. Previous workers have suggested, on the basis of analyses of the boron content of shells belonging to the bivalved mollusc Mytilus edulis, that salinity could be reconstructed from biomineral records of boron. Molluscan shells grow by incremental accretion and preserve within them geochemical records of their environments. Therefore, if boron concentration is being controlled by an external factor, the ontogenetic boron profiles of different shells, contemporaneous and sympatric, should be similar. This paper reports on the analysis of three shells belonging to two species of bivalves, Chionopsis gnidia and Chione californiensis, collected from the Gulf of California. Ontogenetic profiles constructed using a spectrophotometric method are quantitatively similar among the three specimens. The range of boron concentrations in each shell coincide with estimated ambient salinity variation, but also seems to be influenced by aperiodic regional rainfall, and the resulting influx of boron-poor freshwater. The similarity among the shells demonstrates that boron concentration is under external, environmental control, and directly reflects boron concentration in the surrounding water. This conclusion raises the possibility of reconstructing ambient boron concentrations from molluscan shells, and perhaps also reconstructing local salinity values. Further research is required to determine if boron is deposited in equilibrium with ambient concentrations, the nature of any dependence of incorporation on temperature, and, therefore, if paleosalinity reconstruction is possible.
27670575|Extensive study of modern Bahamian stromatolites has resulted in a comprehensive model for their formation. Modern Bahamian thrombolitesmicrobial deposits with a mottled, clotted fabrichave not, however, received the same degree of study. Current models link the Bahamian thrombolites with the presence of a mixed-bacterial-and-metaphyte benthic ecosystem, whereas stromatolite formation is linked with an almost exclusively bacterial benthic ecosystem. By focusing on the preserved fabrics of several specimens, including an entire column 1.5 meters tall, we have developed a new model for the genesis of the clotted, thrombolitic fabric. Our findings demonstrate that variations in the amount and style of penecontemporaneous diagenesis, rather than differences in surficial benthic ecosystems, are the predominate cause of the disparate carbonate fabrics present in the Bahamian microbialites examined. More specifically, the irregular, clotted fabric that characterizes the thrombolites is the result of remodeling a precursor fabric. This remodeling is caused by physical and metazoan disruption, penecontemporaneous micritization, secondary cementation, and localized carbonate dissolution. This new model of syndepositional remodeling of a laminated fabric to a well-cemented, clotted one may be applicable to some ancient thrombolites.
20173009|Substrate properties, such as grain size, water content, shear strength, and content of organic mucus, influence the life activity of benthic organisms and their trace-fossil record. This study deals with actualistic experiments using small crustaceans (amphipods and isopods) moving mainly over plaster of Paris surfaces in various stages of hardening. Several consistencies, such as semi-fluid, very soft, soft, soft-stiff, stiff, and very stiff are distinguished. The morphology of surface lebensspuren shows a broad variety that directly depends on stiffness of the substrate and the capability of the organisms to cope with it. Semi-fluid substrates hinder the organisms in their motility--they move by plowing, whereby sediment flows back behind the animal and refills the furrow, leaving an indistinct line on the surface. With increasing stiffness, traces acquire additional morphological details such as levees and median furrows. On stiff and very stiff substrates, the crustaceans do not penetrate into the sediment, but move by jumping, with the consequence of producing jumping traces instead of furrows. Some lebensspuren obtained in the experiments, especially furrows, are similar to some trace fossils attributed to several non-arthropod animal groups such as annelids, bivalves, and gastropods. This study helps clarify the interpretation and taxonomy of trace fossils and in reconstruct of substrate properties during their formation.
10.2307/3515118|More than 40 species of uppermost Carboniferous and Lower Permian rugose corals collected from 5 areas on the Russian Platform and the Ural Mountains permit eight coral zones to be erected. They are the (1) Timania dobroljubovae zone, (2) Arctophyllum minimum zone, (3) Ferganophyllum sp. nov. 1 zone and its analogue in Timan, the Timania sp. 1-Heritschioides aff. H. carneyi zone, (4) Kleopatrina (K.) pseudoelegans-Tschussovskenia captiosa zone and its partial analogue in Timan, the Lophbillidium zone, (5) Timania schmidti-Kleopatrina (K.) magnifica zone, (6) Protolonsdaleiastraea biseptata zone, (7) Protolonsdaleiastraea longiseptata zone, and (8) Protolonsdaleiastraea juresanensis zone. Several of these zones can be extended to Spitsbergen and North America. Especially important for international correlation are four levels at which major changes in the assemblages of rugose corals occur. These are (1) at the base of the Timania dobrolubjovae zone, (2) at the base of the Kleopatrina (K.) pseudoelegans-Tschussovskenia captiosa zone, (3) at the base of the Protolonsdaleiastraea biseptata zone, and (4) at the top of the Protolonsdaleiastraea juresanensis zone.
10.2307/3515526|A scratch-marked burrow complex with multiple branching tunnels and terminal chambers was excavated from the Lower Triassic Driekoppen Formation, northeastern Free State, South Africa. The burrow complex is attributed to the therapsid Trirachodon, based on disarticulated but fairly complete skulls and skeletons of at least 20 individuals recovered from a nearby, less well-preserved system. The entrance shaft slopes gently downward and is characterized by a bilobate floor and vaulted roof. The bilobate floor has a central flat-topped scratch-marked ridge flanked by two smooth grooves, each approximately the width of the occupant. At deeper levels, tunnels display tighter lateral curvatures, progressively decreasing burrow diameters, variable orientations, and some right angle branches. Burrow floors at these levels are vaguely bilobate. Distally, burrows flatten dorso-ventrally, becoming wedge-shaped before they terminate. These complexes are interpreted as colonial dwelling structures. Numerous branching tunnels and terminal chambers, as well as an enlarged entrance, constitute an unrealistically high expenditure of energy for a single occupant. Furthermore, the bilobate floor is atypical of a single occupant system. Absence of scratch marks in the depressions reflects the regular locomotory activity of Trirachodon. In single-occupant burrows, the center of the structure is worn. The bilobate floor with preferential wear along the flanks suggests routine travel on one side of the tunnel or the other, as multiple occupants moved past one another during daily activity. The presence of numerous fossilized Trirachodon individuals in terminal chambers at the second locality supports multiple cohabitation. There, the uniform sedimentary fill and vertebrate taphonomy suggest that the occupants were drowned in a flash flood. Vertebrate remains are absent at the first locality, where sediment influx was incremental, permitting the escape of burrow occupants. This constitutes the earliest record of multiple cohabitation of a burrow complex by tetrapods. The Trirachodon (Cynodontia) of the Early Triassic Cynognathus Zone probably displayed complex social behaviors previously regarded to be restricted to the mammals of the Cenozoic. This fossorial behavior may have been for thermoregulation, protection from predators, sites of reproduction, and the rearing of young.
10.2307/3514630|The U-shaped, spreiten-bearing burrows Diplocraterion parallelum and D. habichi in the Hickory Sandstone Member of the Riley Formation (Cambrian), record interactions with other metazoans and the substrate, thus revealing paleoecologic, sedimentologic, and environmental details about this basal-transgressive, cratonic sandstone in central Texas. These trace fossils establish the presence of a low-level suspension-feeding, infaunal trophic group not found in the Hickory Sandstone body-fossil record. Diplocraterion probably represents the activity of infaunal, suspension-feeding invertebrates. The Diplocraterion burrow depth of 19.5 cm is additional evidence for a Cambrian suspension-feeding tier deeper than previously estimated. Skolithos/Monocraterion rarely occur in facies with abundant Diplocraterion. High ambient water temperatures may have been a factor controlling the distribution of the organisms within the Diplocraterion-Skolithos/Monocraterion trophic group. The protrusive behavior (downward motion) of Diplocraterion resulted from the interaction with current flow of a high-density tube field of suspension feeders. This interaction caused turbulent eddies to impinge on the bed, resulting in current scour of the substrate. Sediment sorting within the Hickory may have been a direct result of the reworking of vast tidal sand flats by infauna, aiding already strong tidal currents in removing mud-sized particles. Diplocraterion is a diagnostic marine trace fossil and can be used to separate nonmarine from marine environments in basal Paleozoic, cratonic sandstones. It is useful in identifying tidally influenced environments when found in facies resulting from high-energy deposition.
10.2307/3515193|A detailed facies investigation has been undertaken of two key sections across the Permian-Triassic boundary in SE Sichuan, China, with a view to learning more about the timing and cause of the end-Permian mass extinction. Both high diversity reef and level-bottom faunas survived in carbonate platform environments until almost the end of the last, Changxingian, stage of the Permian. The onset of biotic decline is abrupt at the Laolongdong locality and very rapid in the inter-reef setting at Beifengjing. The extinction at both localities is associated with the development of dysaerobic facies characterised by abundant pyrite, a decline in burrow depth and size and an associated increase in the preservation of fine laminae. Benthic oxygen levels declined further in the Early Triassic and both anaerobic and lowest dysaerobic facies are developed. Comparable facies transitions occur in other Chinese era-boundary sections, which record deeper-water basinal and slope settings. The SE Sichuan sections are particularly important because they record the effects of bottom-water dysoxia in much shallower water, although the oxygen deficiency was apparently less intense. The disappearance of reefs at the end of the Permian was bound up with this oxygen deficiency associated with water deepening and not, as previously claimed, with an episode of emergence and karstification.
10.2307/3515398|Siliceous coated grains (oncoids) are common on parts of Primrose Terrace, which is a large sinter apron below Champagne Pool in the Waiotapu geothermal area of North Island, New Zealand. Some oncoids are discoidal with smooth exteriors (Group I), whereas others have clusters of microstromatolites growing upon their surfaces (Group II). The microstromatolites normally began to form when the upper surfaces of the discoidal oncoids had reached mean water level. Growth of the cortical laminae in the oncoids and microstromatolites was mediated by a diverse biota that is dominated by fungi, with subsidiary bacteria (including cyanobacteria) and diatoms. Pollen grains from Pinus radiata, which are common in some cortical laminae, nourished some of the fungi. Collectively, the microbes mediated growth of the oncoids by providing templates for silica precipitation. Most silica oncoids formed in shallow (< 1 cm) flowing water that probably had a temperature of ~ 15-20C and pH of 3-6. Seasonal variations in the water temperature and pH were probably responsible for the cyclic variations in the fabrics of the cortical laminae. Laminae rich in microbial remains formed during the spring and summer months when the warmer waters allowed the microbes to flourish. Cooler waters in the fall and winter led to the demise of some microbes and the development of thinner cortical laminae with few microbial remains.
40606425|The Nebraska Sand Hills are a stabilized dune field in the central United States that reflect past conditions of drought. The most recent drought, known as the Medieval Climatic Anomaly, occurred from A. D. 900 to A. D. 1300 and had an enormous effect on the thriving prairie ecosystem, which included large populations of the plains pocket gopher (Geomys bursarius). Burrows of these organisms across a paleosol-eolian sand boundary in the Sand Hills indicate abrupt climate change during the transition from stabilized to active dune field and from humid to arid conditions. Medieval gophers tunneled at greater depths below the surface than do modern gophers, indicating the behavioral changes these animals underwent to survive during the transition. The gophers were likely surviving on roots remaining in the underlying soil as it was buried by sand; they tunneled > 1 m up to the surface to deposit mounds of excavated soil and sand. Most of the burrows occur in areas of low-angle bedding, suggesting loss of vegetation occurred first on the crests of the newly formed dunes while vegetation persisted in the interdunes. Optically stimulated luminescence dates from a dune containing ancient gopher burrows are nearly identical throughout the height of the dune, indicating rapid accumulation of sand. As accumulation of sand was rapid, vegetative loss must also have occurred quickly, though not in a uniform pattern across the region. Pocket gophers were apparently able to survive in areas of remaining vegetation for a short time, but in a relatively short period of time, they were unable to reach their food sources and were forced ultimately to abandon the uplands in the region.
10.2307/3514814|Combining the substrate preferences of Jacksonian (late Eocene) echinoid species of Florida (Carter et al., 1989) with their geographic distributions (Carter, 1987a) allows construction of biofacies maps reflecting the spatial distribution of carbonate mud-rich and carbonate sand-rich sediments in the Ocala Group of Florida. Both cluster analysis and interpretation of individual localities suggest a consistently sandy bottom over most of the shelf in the early Jacksonian, with a north-south gradient developing during the middle and late Jacksonian. In the middle Ocala, some mud-tolerant species are present in the northern part of the Florida peninsula, toward the Suwannee Strait, and the middle Ocala of the western panhandle is dominated by mud-tolerant species. In the upper Ocala, most localities contain a significant proportion of mud-dwelling species, and the northward prevalence of mud-tolerant assemblages is even more pronounced, with those assemblages closer to the Suwannee Strait entirely dominated by mud-dwellers. These data suggest that the Ocala Bank of Cheetham (1963) was more of a northward sloping carbonate ramp than a carbonate shelf.
40606509|The epi-and endobiont communities (EEBCs) found within an exquisitely preserved collection of 48 Manicina areolata specimens from two Pleistocene localities in southeastern Florida, United States, were examined in detail. The EEBCs include a broad taxonomic spectrum of encrusting and boring organisms, but differ markedly between the two localities. Specimens from the Canal locality generally show an equable distribution of EEBCs, with serpulids, spirorbids, and/or chamids numerically dominant and chamids dominating in average area, whereas the Palm Beach Aggregates (PBA) coralla have a much less even distribution of EEBC constituents and lithophagids numerically and spatially dominate virtually all bases. Given the relative proximity of the two localities and inferred distance from the Pleistocene shoreline, it seems unlikely that any of the EEBC components would have been substantially less available in one locality as compared to the other. Therefore, we favor an explanation focused on sedimentologie differences between the two areas. The Canal environment was shelly, carbonate mud, in contrast to the shelly, coarser-grained siliciclastic sediment present at PBA. The substrate at the Canal site was relatively soft, which resulted in corallum basal morphology commencing with a prominent apical cone, whereas the substrate at the PBA site was firmer and this support produced much flatter bases as well as allowing for a substantially greater number of lithophagid bivalves to bore into the coralla.
10.2307/3514631|Thrombolites and stromatolites are distinct types of microbial (cryptalgal) structures characterized, respectively, by mesoscopic clotted and laminated internal fabrics. Although thrombolites commonly contain skeletal metazoans and may be burrowed and bored, their clotted fabric is a primary microbial feature and not a disrupted or modified laminated fabric. The individual mesoscopic clots (mesoclots) within thrombolites are interpreted as discrete colonies or growth forms of calcified, internally poorly differentiated, and coccoid-dominated microbial communities. In contrast, the individual laminae (stromatoids) within stromatolites are generated by the episodic sediment-trapping and/or carbonate-precipitating activities of mat-like microbial communities that are dominated by filamentous microbes. A simple tripartite field classification of microbial structures, modified after Aitken (1967), is proposed on the basis of the dominant type of constructive, mesoscopic, constituent. The three end members are stromatolites, thrombolites, and undifferentiated microbial boundstones. Thrombolites are not uniformly distributed in the rock record, but are essentially a Cambrian and Lower Ordovician phenomenon. Their distribution appears to have been controlled by, first, the appearance of calcareous microbes (including such forms as Girvanella, Renalcis, Epiphyton, and Nuia) and the approximately synchronous radiation and skeletonization of grazing and bioturbating Metazoa at the beginning of the Phanerozoic eon; and second, niche competition from newly evolved, reef-building, skeletal metazoans and algae, and possibly increased predation by molluscs, in Early and Middle Ordovician time.
3515734|Microbial boundstones from Alaska and Russia yield new insights into the paleoecology of Silurian biotas that inhabited stromatolite reefs. These high-energy reefs were built along the Uralian Seaway in the Late Silurian by a diverse suite of microorganisms in association with accessory metazoans, predominantly sphinctozoan sponges. Within the stromatolite framework, three species of small, solitary, sphinctozoans (aphrosalpingids) encrusted a variety of hard substrates, mostly skeletal remains but also microbial laminae and cavity surfaces. Fossils encrusted by the sponges include the problematic hydroid Fistulella, possible stromatoporoids (recrystallized), crinoids, the possible cyanobacterium Ludlovia, corals, and unidentifiable shelly debris. In addition to the ubiquitous microbial laminae, the sponges, Fistulella, and ? stromatoporoids were less commonly encrusted by Ludlovia, Renalcis, or crinoids. Well-developed attachment surfaces, including enlarged holdfasts, allowed the sponges to achieve stability on the seafloor after larvae settled randomly on available hard surfaces. A greater incidence of sponge encrustations on Fistulella than on other organisms indicates that some of the sponges may have enjoyed a commensalistic relationship while attached as juveniles to a living substrate. The sponges' orientation on Fistulella in the sediment suggests that the relationship between the two taxa may have become parasitic, whereby the weight of the sponges caused Fistulella to collapse into the muddy substrate. Recognition of the intimate growth relationships shared by Silurian sphinctozoans, Fistulella, and other organisms expands the fossil record of encrusting sponges, identifies a novel sponge-?hydroid association, and reveals organismal responses to competition for space in mid-Paleozoic microbial reefs.
27670508|A total of 17 mammalian communities from south-central Spain to northern Germany spanning the middle Miocene Climatic Optimum (ca. 1714 Ma) are analyzed. Mammalian body-weight structures (cenograms) are constructed and discussed in terms of paleoenvironmental affinities. They indicate an arid climate and open environments in south-central Spain and closed and densely forested regions with very humid conditions to the north. The data reveal the presence of a strong latitudinal environmental gradient during this period. Other studies based on the fossil records of plants or ectothermic vertebrates showed that virtually no temperature gradient was present in Europe at that time and that mean annual temperatures were very high, probably around 20 C. Mammalian communities, therefore, show the presence of a southwest-northeast aridity-humidity gradient and confirm recent findings based on air-breathing fish distribution and pollen spectra. Atmospheric circulations could be responsible for this meridional gradient, but other regional causes cannot be ruled out. This study indicates that mammal body weight distributions are excellent proxies to investigate the environmental and climatic evolution and compare well with other paleoenvironmental proxies.
10.2307/3515244|Most bivalve shells contain macroscopic growth-increment patterns which form with an annual periodicity. These are best observed in radial shell cross-sections and consist of alternating dark (translucent in transmitted light) and light (opaque in transmitted light) increments. A couplet of dark and light increments constitutes one year's shell growth and subdivides the continuous shell growth record into successive, annual components. Conventional wisdom suggests that dark increments represent slow shell growth associated with cold winter temperatures. Such a pattern characterizes shells of the much-studied hard clam, Mercenaria mercenaria, from coastal New England. Investigations of other species indicate, however, that not all dark increments form in response to cold temperatures. Yearly cycles in oxygen isotopic data from fossil and modern bivalves demonstrate considerable variability in the season of growth increment formation. Isotopic data suggest Jurassic Gryphaea arcuata from Great Britain formed dark increments during the warmest season, as do many other bivalves. In fact, oxygen isotope profiles across the shells of modern and fossil Mercenaria spp. from the U.S. east coast and the Atlantic and Gulf Coastal Plains indicate that in northern latitudes the dark increment typically forms during the winter season whereas in lower latitudes it forms during the summer to early fall. A transition zone occurs in the Middle Atlantic region where aspects of both patterns are observed. Water temperature extremes (high or low) appear to be the primary factor controlling the timing of dark (translucent) increment formation. Because of this dichotomy in the season of growth-increment formation, high-resolution isotopic sampling is invaluable when interpreting shell records in sclerochronological contexts, particularly for fossil bivalves.
10.2307/3514512|The faunal change across the Proterozoic-Cambrian transition can be interpreted as a shift from marine communities composed largely of soft-bodied, possibly photoautotrophic animals to communities dominated by heterotrophic Metazoa. Convincing evidence for macrophagous predation (damaged prey, actual fossils of predators, and antipredatory prey morphologies) first appears in the fossil record during the Lower Cambrian. The enigmatic Cambrian fossil, Xenusion, may be a relict member of the E diacaran biota that developed spines to deter predators. Defensive prey morphologies such as punctae in mickwitziid brachiopods and spines on wiwaxiids appear at or just before the base of the Cambrian, and strongly suggest that predators played an important role in these earliest shelly communities. The fossil record is biased against preservation of these early predators, however, because most were soft bodied or lightly skeletonized. Abundant late Proterozoic-Early Cambrian phosphorites suggest increased photic-zone nutrient supplies during the Proterozoic-Cambrian transition, possibly as a result of paleoceanographic conditions favoring equatorial upwelling or increased nutrient runoff from the continents. By favoring heterotrophy over photoautotrophy in marine animals, increased shallow-marine nutrient supplies may be the proximal cause for the Cambrian radiation of predators and the loss of the unique Ediacaran biota.
20172998|Although insect size and robustness often have been hypothesized to be factors that lead to taphonomic bias in the insect fossil record, no studies have examined how these factors directly affect an insect's preservation potential. In this study, laboratory experiments were performed on modern Coleoptera (beetles) to examine the importance of insect morphology on preservation potential. A rotary tumbling barrel was used to determine how insect size and robustness would influence sinking and disarticulation rates. Although size and robustness were not correlated directly, beetles that were larger and more robust were more resistant to disarticulation than smaller, less-robust beetles. Waterlogged specimens gained increased flexibility in their exoskeletons, and were difficult to puncture. Sinking and disarticulation rates were correlated, although it took fewer days for beetles to sink than it took to begin disarticulating. A white-colored film was apparent on all specimens within a few days of their introduction to the tumbling barrel; however, major disarticulation did not occur until the specimens sank to the bottom. An examination of the fossil-beetle literature also suggests the importance of hardness in preservation potential. Although often considered fragile, given the right physical characteristics and environmental conditions, insects can be resistant to disarticulation and decay.
10.2307/3515019|The oldest occurrence (Early Silurian, Llandovery) of megalodont bivalves is reported from the Canadian Arctic. Megalodonts, although occurring through most of the Silurian, are abundant in Ludlow strata in three main areas: Australia, the Arctic, and the Michigan Basin. They occupied several different depositional environments, but they tended to be most common in shallow-water, protected back-barrier, lime mud-rich settings. Many of the Silurian megalodonts were reclined, mud-resting, epifaunal suspension feeders. Because of their abnormally large size, thick shell, probable high skeleton-to-body ratio, and faunal, tropical reef-associated habitat, many probably contained photosynthetic endosymbionts. Some megalodont-bearing calcimuds were likely influenced by microbial communities, which may have increased substrate bearing strength and support for the robust megalodonts. Megalodonts represent the earliest record of algal symbiosis in Bivalvia, a characteristic which is believed to have occurred in other groups of Phanerozoic shelly fauna, particularly the bivalves. The Permian alatoconchiids, Triassic megalodonts, and Cretaceous rudists represent important occurrences of bivalve endosymbiosis which may have had an origin in the megalodonts.
40865490|Trace fossils extend the history of early molluscan evolution because they have a higher preservation potential in siliciclastic strata, where body fossils are rare or absent, and also because they better record the activities of soft-bodied animals. The earliest mollusks are recorded by fan-shaped scratch arrays associated with death masks of the Ediacaran animal Kimberella. Cambrian tracesClimactichnites, Musculopodus, Radulichnusand fecal pellets record giant, but shell-less mollusks that intermittently left the water to graze the biofilms of intertidal sand flats. After the Cambrian, these traces become progressively restricted. Their subsequent disappearance results from closure of a taphonomic window, rather than from extinction of these animals or their grazing behavior. Other Paleozoic groups of shell-less mollusks may have responded to increasing predation pressures by becoming infaunal. Unlike surface trails, their backfilled burrowsPsammichnites, "Autichnites-Olivellites" Dictyodoraare commonly preserved. These burrows reflect the evolution of sophisticated search programs in shallow-marine as well as deep-sea environments, but none of them continues into the Mesozoic.
20173032|The Upper Ordovician Viola Group of south-central Oklahoma records deposition on a carbonate ramp that extended from platformal settings to a basin within the Southern Oklahoma aulacogen. Lithofacies analysis allows identification of inner, mid- and outer-ramp environments in the Viola Springs Formation, each of which hosted a distinct trilobite biofacies. There is a sharp break in both composition and species diversity of biofacies between the outer ramp within the aulacogen and shallower environments. The outer-ramp Cryptolithine Biofacies is characterized by low species diversity, whereas both the midramp Thaleops Biofacies and the inner-ramp Bumastoides Biofacies contain up to four times as many trilobite species and rare cryptolithines. Comparisons with Cambrian and older Ordovician shelf-to-basin trilobite distributions suggest that the pattern recorded in the Viola Springs is depth related. The overlying Welling Formation includes two biofacies in inner- to midramp environments, with the faunas of the aulacogen being less diverse than those of the platform. The high trilobite species diversity in shallow water environments of the Viola Group supports a dilution model for community reorganization during the Ordovician.
10.2307/3515049|Ternary diagrams can be useful in taphonomic analysis. When the quality of preservation of a hard part can be expressed in a three-fold scheme, a single point on a triangular diagram characterizes the frequency distribution of taphonomic alteration within a sample. Comparison of samples with such a "ternary taphogram" is an efficient way to explore variation in the preservation of hard parts. To illustrate the method, we compare samples from the northern Gulf of California and the North Sea. Taphonomic variation in the samples reflects variation in the extent of subaerial exposure, wave and current regime, and shell architecture.
27670468|The Tlaya Quarry, sometimes referred to as the Mexican Solnhofen, is one of the most important fossil localities in Mexico, with fishes making up 70%80% of the macrofossils. White cryptocrystalline hydroxyapatite patches within many specimens reveal details of muscles, gills, digestive tract, and stomach contents under the scanning electronic microscope. This is the first record of soft-tissue preservation of this kind in Mesozoic fishes from North America. The association of terrestrial, freshwater, and marine organisms, including shallow marine foraminifera, together with abundant ooids and isotopic evidence of fresh water higher in the sequence, favor a shallow, restricted-marine paleoenvironment.
20173025|The record of fossil mammalian remains from Poggio Rosso, Upper Valdarno, represents one of the richest samples for deciphering paleobiological information on latest Pliocene land faunas of central Italy. The taphonomic imprinting of this bone accumulation formed by Pachycrocuta brevirostris is investigated to determine the time-averaging of the assemblage, the structure of the paleocommunity from which it originated, and the interactions among some of the species represented in it, as well as the paleobiology and paleoethology of the hyenas. The bones were accumulated in a short time (within a year) during an episode of severe drought. The harsh environmental conditions debilitated the fauna and exposed it to predators. Harsh conditions also forced clans of Pachycrocuta hyenas, which under normal circumstances would have been primarily scavengers, to turn into killers of prey that now were easier to subdue. Thus portions of killed prey were added to the scavenged carcass parts usually taken to the dens. Furthermore, the remains at Poggio Rosso seems to add weight to the hypothesis that middle latitude P. brevirostris might have had seasonal breeding and parental care of cubs.
3515670|The Shelf and Slope Experimental Taphonomy Initiative (SSETI) Program was established to measure taphonomic rates in a range of continental shelf and slope environments over a long period of time. For this report, mollusk shells were deployed for one and two years at seven different environments of deposition (EODs) along two onshore-offshore transects off Lee Stocking Island in the Bahamas. The experimental sites were located: in sand channels on the platform top (15 m) and the platform edge (33 m); on ledges down the wall (70-88 m); on the upper (183 m) and lower (210-226 m) talus slope below the wall; and on the crest (256-264 m) and in the trough (259-267 m) of large sand dunes. Shell condition was assessed using a range of taphonomic attributes including dissolution, abrasion, edge alteration, discoloration, and changes in shell weight. After two years, taphonomic alteration was not particularly intense in any EOD. No species was particularly susceptible or resistant to taphonomic alteration. Taphonomic processes were unexpectedly complex. Effects of location, transect, water depth, and degree of exposure all had significant effects. On average, shells deployed in shallow sites were altered significantly from the controls more frequently than shells deployed at deeper sites. However, the number of significant interaction terms between time and the other main effects indicates a complex interaction between taphonomic processes and the local environment that, over the short term, defies any attempt at delineating taphofacies over a broader spatial area than a single deployment site. Some locations attained the same taphonomic signature in different ways making discrimination of taphonomic rules difficult. For example, deeper-water sites and shallow sites where burial rates were high yielded similar taphonomic signatures because shells were in the aphotic zone in both cases, and this limited the rate and range of taphonomic interactions. Taphonomic processes were strongly nonlinear in time for all taphonomic attributes in all species and all EODs. Nonlinear taphonomic rates hinder the interpretation of single-point-in-time studies in understanding the taphonomic process and buttress a commitment to long-term experiments.
10.2307/3514617|Variance within samples of fossil species includes biological and taphonomic components and is affected by methodological artifacts. The biological component is intrinsically interesting and important in tests of evolutionary hypotheses using fossils. Varved deposits, often produced by meromictic lakes, in which stable bottom water inhibits turbation of fine bottom ooze, provide excellent opportunities to isolate the biological component of variance within fossil samples. This is because varves can provide an internal time scale for temporal stratification of samples, and specimens on a single varve represent one or a few consecutive generations. We discuss taphonomic processes that may contribute to fossil sample variance, emphasizing timeaveraging because it is characteristic of fossil samples and produces a positive correlation between character variance and stratigraphic change. Random samples of the fossil stickleback fish, Gasterosteus doryssus, were scored for dorsal-fin ray number. Dorsal-fin ray number is ontogenetically stable over the size range used. Comparisons of fossil stickleback samples to samples of extant Gasterosteus aculeatus and temporal stratification of fossil samples provide no evidence that taphonomic processes or methodological artifacts inflated variance in the fossil samples. This result may reflect inherent difficulty of estimating variances or absence of taphonomic and methodological effects on variance in these samples. However, time-averaging within fossil samples is a viable hypothesis to explain associations between high rates of change through time and high variance in fossil samples.
10.2307/3514800|Remains of the ichthyosaur Shonisaurus popularis are sufficiently abundant and well preserved in the Upper Triassic Luning Formation of Nevada to allow paleobiologic inferences to be drawn from taphonomic data. In Berlin-Ichthyosaur State Park, Shonisaurus popularis fossils define both a scattered-element taphofacies and an articulated-skeleton taphofacies. Because these taphofacies reflect disparate depositional environments, each provides unique paleoecologic information. The scattered-element taphofacies consists of fragmentary skeletons and disassociated bones that accumulated in relatively energetic carbonate platform settings. The paleogeographic and temporal extent of this taphofacies indicates that Shonisaurus popularis favored tropical to subtropical, deeper shelf and basinal waters throughout upper Carnian and lower Norian time. The articulated-skeleton taphofacies is composed of comparatively whole skeletons, found in low-energy, poorly oxygenated basin sediments. Because these specimens are not reworked, they afford detailed paleoecological insights. Ichthyosaur occurrences include both isolated individuals, and multiple skeletons clustered upon a single bedding plane, suggesting that Shonisaurus popularis was subject to both attritional and catastrophic mortality. The abundance and distribution of attritional deaths indicates that these animals lived in persistent, fairly high-density populations. Evidence from a single, upper Carnian mass-death suggests that adults of the species, at least occasionally, engaged in group activity. There are no data to support previous hypotheses that Shonisaurus popularis frequented intertidal waters or was prone to stranding.
3515822|Enigmatic microfossils from the early Silurian of Poland known as mazuelloids (= muellerisphaerids) have been identified as Baltisphaeridium-like acanthomorphic acritarchs that have been subject to post-mortem phosphatization. These acritarchs were the dominant components of large post-bloom macroaggregates that probably sank rapidly to the seafloor and were then overgrown by benthic coc-coid cyanobacterial mats. Early diagenetic phosphatization of the remains probably occurred following shallow burial and in proximity to decomposing phosphate-rich macroag-gregates. Depending on phosphate availability, the resulting phosphate layers were thin or thick and were deposited on the outside, inside, or enveloping the acritarch organic walls from both sides. The unusually large size of the mazuelloid-forming acritarchs was probably the result of periodically hypertrophic conditions driven by large blooms generated by upwelling currents.
3515775|Depositional paleoenvironments of the La Luna Formation were established based on investigation of sedimentology, foraminiferal assemblages, and stable isotope composition of two sections in the Venezuelan Andes. Planktonic foraminiferal biostratigraphy indicates that the age of the San Miguel section spans from the late Turonian to the early Campanian and the Las Hernndez section ranges from the early Coniacian to the early Campanian. The base of the La Luna Formation becomes progressively younger towards the south. Early-diagenetic processes have altered stable isotopic composition of carbonates, however stratigraphic changes in carbon isotope values can be used to correlate between the sections. The environment of deposition of the La Luna Formation changed during the Late Cretaceous. Interval I, from the early Coniacian to mid-Santonian, was characterized by anoxic conditions. Alternating anoxic-dysoxic environments in Interval II lasted from the mid-Santonian to the base of the Campanian. Interval III, in the early Campanian, was marked by more oxygenated conditions. These trends can be partially observed in other ocean basins.
10.2307/3515005|Similar successions of planktonic foraminifera, calcareous nannofossils, and bolboformids document coeval deposition of the Exmore impact breccia (Virginia Coastal Plain) and an impact ejecta layer at DSDP Site 612 (New Jersey Continental Slope). Both impactites accumulated in the late Eocene during the early part of biochrons P15 (planktonic foraminifera) and NP19-20 (calcareous nannofossils), approximately 35.5-35.2 Ma. The impactite at Site 612 is part of an allochthonous debriite, 22.8 cm thick, displaced from the Toms Canyon impact crater, 40 km north-northwest of Site 612. The Exmore breccia, possibly 2000 m thick, is composed of debris displaced from the Chesapeake Bay impact crater, located in southeastern Virginia, 330 km southwest of Site 612.
10.2307/3514912|Excavation of deep, open burrow networks and subsequent infilling with sediment from the surface produces an entirely new sedimentary deposit and results in obliteration to severe diagenetic transformation of precursor depositional facies. Repetitive excavation and infilling is responsible for creating the preserved depositional facies of many marine deposits. Excavating burrowers occur from intertidal to abyssal depths, and are important throughout the Phanerozoic. The repetitive coupling of deep, open burrow excavation with subsequent storm sediment infilling of open burrow networks is a gradual process that ultimately results in the loss of the original deposit and the generation of new lithologies, fabrics and facies. The new lithologies are produced in the subsurface and possess fabrics, textures and skeletal assemblages that are not a direct reflection of either precursor facies or the surficial depositional conditions. Sedimentary facies generated by repetitive burrow excavation and infilling commonly are massively bedded and generally are mottled skeletal packstones. Skeletal grains usually are well-preserved and coarser components are concentrated in burrow networks, pockets and patches. The coarse skeletal components of burrow-generated facies are a mixture of coarse bioclasts from the precursor facies and both the coarse and fine skeletal material introduced from the sediment surface. Many so-called "bioturbated" or "massive" facies may, in fact, be primary depositional facies generated in the subsurface and represent severe diagenetic transformation of originally deposited sequences. In addition, mudstones and wackestones mottled with packstone patches may record storm sedimentation.
10.2307/3515501|A comparison of the taxonomic composition, relative abundance, diet, feeding habitat, and size of live and dead insects was conducted in Willcox Playa, an ephemeral lake in southeastern Arizona. Death assemblages of beetles, the most abundant group of insects in this study, are preserved in the shallow, subsurface sediments along the shoreline of the lake. Fifty-six percent of the living beetle families and twenty-eight percent of the living beetle genera were found in the sediments; one-hundred percent of the families and ninety-one percent of the genera found dead were also present in the live fauna. Relative abundances of beetle families in the live assemblage are significantly different than relative abundances in the death assemblage. Among diet and habitat groups, necrophagous and ground-dwelling beetles are over-represented in the death assemblage, while wood-inhabitants and aquatics are under-represented. The death assemblage contains a greater proportion of smaller, more robust beetles. Such biases also may occur in fossil assemblages and should be considered in paleoecological and paleoenvironmental reconstructions.
10.2307/3515189|Subsurface shell beds that are common on the eastern Alabama/western Florida Panhandle shelf provide paleoenvironmental and taphonomic data that demonstrate a dynamic depositional history with reactivation and amalgamation to the base of the Holocene marine transgressive package. In most of the ten shell beds we examined, shallow-marine mollusks, large soritid foraminifera, and cupularid bryozoans are common. Bioclasts occur in all preservation states, but a majority are pristine or only slightly altered. Normal grading, and concave-up, stacked, and random fabrics are common. In three of these shell beds, a relict estuarine component characterized by poorly-preserved Chione cancellata can be detected. Three other shell beds contain 1 of 2 estuarine molluscan assemblages. One assemblage is characteristic of fine-grained and the other of coarser-grained substrates. In all estuarine shell beds, bioclast preservation ranges from excellent to mixed, and bioclasts have random fabrics and locally are normally graded. Most molluscan remains are indigenous and assemblages range from within-habitat time-averaged to environmentally condensed. Shell beds are thick (up to about 75 cm) and overlie bay or shoreface ravinement surfaces, indicating that shell beds first accumulated as coarse transgressive deposits, and are composite concentrations modified by multiple events. Shell beds, however, are amalgamated. Only fabrics reflecting the final modifying events are preserved, and evidence of previous accumulation processes are obliterated. For marine shell beds especially, these final agents were, and possibly continue to be, high-energy events such as storms (winter cold fronts, hurricanes) or currents associated with Loop Current eddies. Episodically high sedimentation rates associated with these events may have acted as a buffer, preventing a long history of reworking and exposure (thus reducing shell alteration) typical of transgressive lags. Our results indicate that: 1) within-habitat time-averaged and environmentally condensed assemblages can be distinguished by combining taphonomic and environmental data, even when the ranges of environmentally disparate species overlap, 2) transgressive-lag deposits can be composed of well-preserved bioclasts, and 3) transgressive lags can be reworked and amalgamated but still be recognizable on the basis of their stratigraphic context.
27670539|Analysis of the saber-tooth morphology within the Felidae indicates that canines of various saber-toothed species grow differently. Stable oxygen isotopes analyzed from tooth enamel reveal that the scimitar-toothed Homotherium serum, which possessed short, broad sabers, had tooth crown growth rates similar to modern lions. This contrasts with the longer and thinner, dirk-toothed saber species in the genus Smilodon, S. gracilis and S. fatalis, which had much faster growth rates. With a more rapid growth rate, Smilodon reduced the total duration of crown growth to a period of time similar to that observed in modern lions, even though its tooth crown was twice as large. While comparable in overall morphology, developmental differences may reflect ecological differences among taxa bearing saber-toothed canines.
27670411|Paleobotanists have developed numerous methods for quantifying correlations between leaf form and climate, so that fossil leaves can be used to estimate past terrestrial climate. Approaches currently used can be broken into two classes: those using categorical, primarily qualitative shape characters (such as round base) and those describing shape as ratios or other abstract mathematical descriptors (such as perimeter-to-area ratio). Both classes of approach have limitations and are hard to compare to one another. We show how eigenshape analysis provides both interpretable characters and measures of continuous variation, thus potentially overcoming the limitations of both current approaches. We applied eigenshape analysis to a sample of 394 nonlobed leaves from extant assemblages to empirically identify independent leaf shape characters. This resulted in the identification of 20 shape characters. Of these, 13 reflected variation due to broad-scale asymmetry as well as asymmetry localized to the tip, base, and lamina-petiole junction. The remaining seven characters, in order of variance explained, corresponded roughly to base shape, tip angle, location of widest portion of the leaf (ovate to obovate variation), extent of widest portion of the leaf (elliptic to oblong variation), tip shape (blunt to drip tip), ovate to obovate variation localized to the middle of the leaf, and extension of the lamina along the petiole at the lamina-petiole junction. All 7 of these characters and only 1 of the 13 asymmetry characters had an association with climate. These characters corresponded to five of the seven broad categories of Wolfe's Climate-Leaf Analysis Multivariate Program shape descriptors, excluding only tooth shape and lobing. The results of this study indicate that eigenshape-generated measures of leaf shape merit further exploration.
10.2307/3515426|Internal stratigraphy of a Late Quaternary sediment wedge on the New Jersey outer continental shelf has been investigated using regional and 3-D seismic surveys, sediment cores and foraminiferal biofacies analysis. Results from the study help constrain Late Wisconsinan glacial/deglacial history in this area. Three major reflectors (channels, S and R) define 5 stratigraphic units: S1-modern sediments; S2-sands overlying a channelized surface (Channels reflector); S3-muds, clays and sandy muds below the channelized surface and above reflector S; S4-an unsampled unit between reflectors S and R; and S5-sands underlying reflector R, the latter surface defining the base of the sediment wedge. Multivariate quantitative analysis delineates four major faunal groups characterizing these stratigraphic units. Faunal patterns are interpreted in terms of modern foraminiferal distributions, planktonic/benthic ratios and faunal abundance patterns. Group A dominates units S2 and S5 and is characterized by Cibicides lobatulus and Cassidulina islandica. The fauna indicates middle neritic water depths, moderate to high current energy, and moderate accumulation rates. Group B dominates unit S3 (muddy unit) and is characterized by Elphidium excavatum s.l., Buccella frigida, Fursenkoina fusiformis and miliolid spp. This fauna represents an environment with no modern analogue on the New Jersey continental shelf, reflecting middle neritic, low-energy conditions and the accumulation of predominantly muddy sediments. Group C dominates the modern sediment veneer (unit S1), and its diverse fauna is consistent with modern faunal distributions and environmental conditions. Group D consists of a low-diversity fauna dominated by Fursenkoina fusiformis and Nonionella sp., which characterizes a few samples in unit S3. Environmental conditions are probably similar to those described for faunal group B. The distribution and interpretation of these faunas, combined with preliminary C-14 AMS dates, indicate that the Quaternary history of the outer-shelf sediment wedge involves a middle Wisconsinan unconformity (R), overlain by an unsampled unit (S4) and several meters of mud (S3). This relationship may represent a middle Wisconsinan outwash event. The muddy deposit was later incised by the "Channels" horizon, possibly reflecting the late Wisconsinan maximum lowering of sea level. This horizon is overlain by sandy transgressive deposits associated with rising sea level, presumably during the Holocene.
10.2307/3514510|Until now, the genus Bolboforma, a problematic group of calcareous microfossils, has been recorded only in Oligocene to Pliocene marine sedimentary rocks, chiefly in the eastern North Atlantic region. We add to this eastern North Atlantic record six new sites and eleven undescribed species from the continental slopes of Ireland and Morocco. More significantly, we record, for the first time, abundant assemblages of Bolboforma on the western side of the North Atlantic and in the western South Pacific. Seven boreholes on the continental shelf and slope of New Jersey and Virginia contain ten species, three of which are new. Two species are present in two outcrops in eastern Mississippi and four are present in a borehole in the coastal plain of Virginia. On the Lord Howe Rise, west of New Zealand, a DSDP corehole has yielded a rich assemblage including four undescribed species. In addition to expanding the geographic distribution of Bolboforma, our work extends the known stratigraphic range downward into the upper Eocene on both sides of the North Atlantic and in the western South Pacific. Our findings firmly support the inference of a planktonic life style for Bolboforma, which implies a significant potential for biostratigraphic, paleobiogeographic, and paleoenvironmental studies, on both a local and global scale. We recommend a concerted effort to further document the nature and distribution of Bolboforma.
10.2307/3514666|Taphonomic features and the stratigraphic association of benthic fauna with their preferred substrate indicate minimal between-habitat transport of shells in a coarse-grained shallow-marine Pleistocene fan delta deposit. Well-preserved invertebrate shells occur in dense concentrations and as dispersed specimens in life position in a range of supratidal to subtidal facies. The association of primarily epifaunal hard-substrate species with gravel sediments and of infaunal molluscs with sand substrates is very strong, based on relative abundance data from 22 samples (R = 0.88). Hard-substrate fauna comprise 0.4-10% of the total fauna in fine-grained sediments, and 80-90% of the total fauna in clast-supported cobble beds. The strong association between fauna and substrate suggests that transportation among adjacent sandy and cobble habitats was minimal; therefore, fossils in this coarse-grained terrace were deposited under low-energy marine conditions. Such low-energy conditions are also supported by the following taphonomic and sedimentary features: a high percentage of bivalves in the terrace are articulated (up to 55%), most shells are unworn and unabraded, highly convex disarticulated bivalve shells have a predominant concave-up orientation (50%-76%), and the fine-grained shell beds are massive, lacking physical sedimentary structures indicative of high-energy conditions. The occurrence of coarse-grained sediments in low-energy environments may often be misinterpreted unless faunal and taphonomic features are also examined.
10.2307/3514944|Before the evolutionary and ecological information contained in shell beds can be interpreted, the conditions of shell bed formation must be understood. Here we investigate the mode and time scale of accumulation of a dense layer of Strombus floridanus in the Pliocene "Pinecrest Beds" of Florida. We utilize a variety of comparative taphonomic data, including the extent of encrustation and boring on strombid shells of different ontogenetic ages, and on accompanying pelecypods of different ecological types. These taphonomic comparisons enable us to reconstruct more accurately the events of shell bed formation. The formation of the strombid shell layer involved both biological and physical components. The characteristically gregarious behavior of Strombus is reflected in the large numbers of individuals preserved in this layer. Based on average densities of individuals in strombid colonies today, we estimate that a time period of tens to hundreds of years was required to accumulate these fossils. Repeated sediment winnowing by storms, followed by rapid reburial in a regime of at least episodically high sedimentation rates, is the most likely mechanism of accumulation, and accounts for the observed patterns of encrustation and boring on the shells of Strombus and various associated pelecypods. The origin of Florida's Plio-Pleistocene shelly sands is poorly understood; analysis of this bed may provide a working model for future taphonomic studies.
27670376|Three loose blocks, rich in dinosaur footprints, were found in a small pier at Mattinata (Gargano Promontory, Foggia, Italy), most probably quarried from the Upper Jurassic Sannicandro Formation. All of the footprints in the blocks are ascribed to medium-sized theropod trackmakers. Recent track discoveries from both the Early Cretaceous San Giovanni Rotondo Limestone and the Late Cretaceous Altamura Limestone, as well as this new discovery, reveal the consistency of terrestrial associations along the southern margin of the Tethys Ocean in the peri-Mediterranean area at the end of Jurassic through Cretaceous times. The presence of these dinosaur-track-rich levels within marine sediments of the Apulia Platform underlines the relevance of dinosaur footprints as a means of constraining paleogeographic reconstructions.
3515020|The crinoid Glyptocrinus provided an elevated substrate on the Cincinnatian seafloor suitable for exploitation by platyceratid gastropods and their attached epizoans, notably Cornulites, a tubiculous, suspension-feeding worm-like organism. The presumably coprophagous platyceratids served as a substrate for settling larvae of Cornulites. Seven species of platyceratid gastropods belonging to the genera Cyclonema and Naticonema have been found with cornulitids attached commensally in several stereotypic locations on the shell. Some cornulitid individuals survived partial overgrowth by the snail shell and continued to live commensally on the snail. Whether coprophagous on the crinoid fecal wastes or not, the platyceratids and associated cornulitids represent opportunistic secondary tierers which occupied an optimally elevated position on the calices of Glyptocrinus, above an unstable, mud bottom substrate. Cornulites, and perhaps the platyceratids, very likely took advantage of food particles made available by the crinoid's filter-feeding activities. This cornulitid-snail-crinoid association is documented in several stratigraphic units within the Cincinnatian Series.
10.2307/3515247|The plant cuticle with its stomatal pores represents an important interface between the plant and its surrounding environment. The potential of cuticular features such as cuticle thickness, stomatal density, stomatal index and stomatal ratio to signal the environment in which they grew and developed have been reviewed. In particular, new stomatal data from three Yorkshire Middle Jurassic species, Brachyphyllum crucis Kendall, Brachyphyllum mamillare Lindley and Hutton and Ginkgo huttonii (Sternberg) Heer, have been compared with those of two selected nearest living equivalent (NLE) species Athrotaxis cupressoides and Ginkgo biloba, in an attempt to deduce the atmospheric carbon dioxide concentration from that time. It appears that the development of a thick cuticle can represent an adaptation to more than one kind of environmental constraint and evidently is a feature of certain taxonomic groups. It was concluded therefore that cuticle thickness, taken on its own, was not a suitable palaeo-ecological indicator. In contrast however stomatal parameters of fossil plants seem to have great potential as palaeo-atmospheric indicators of carbon dioxide and in this sense as "skeletal evidence of palaeo-ecological change". The stomatal density and index results of the Jurassic species were significantly lower (P <0.0001) than those of their selected NLE species, therefore indicating elevated atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> concentrations for the Middle Jurassic. In addition the stomatal ratios of the Jurassic species were in agreement with those of previous Devonian and Carboniferous stomatal ratio results. These results are consistent with the evidence from carbon cycle modelling and carbon isotopic data which infer elevated atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> concentrations during the Middle Jurassic of 4 to 5 times and 6 to 10 times the present atmospheric level respectively.
40606506|Science historians separated the scientific origins of ichnology and body fossil paleontology; the birth of body fossil paleontology is attributed to the Renaissance, whereas the beginnings of ichnology are placed in the 19th century. The present study shifts the boundaries of the history of paleontology and provides new information on an obscure chapter of scientific thought: the ichnological studies of Leonardo da Vinci. This report examines the ichnological observations of Leonardo da Vinci by (1) interpreting the Codex Leicester and the ichnosites described therein, and (2) studying the ichnological drawing included in the Codex I. This paper demonstrates the modernity and correctness of the observations and interpretations made by da Vinci, who used trace fossils to complement his hypothesis concerning the relationship of body fossils to the host sediment. The result from new information presented here is the establishment of a line of continuity between the two main branches of paleontologytrace fossils and body fossilsthat emerge united by the genius of Leonardo da Vinci, the founding father of ichnology.
10.2307/3515301|Shell concentrations (shell beds) are abundant and diverse in the Cambrian strata of the Basin and Range Province (California, Nevada, and Utah). These beds occur in many lithofacies and vary from mm-thick pavements composed exclusively of trilobites to well-developed composite beds, meters in thickness, composed of a variety of taxa. Overall, the physical dimensions, abundance, and diversity of shell accumulations increased from Early to Late Cambrian times in shallow-marine, mixed carbonate and siliciclastic facies. This temporal trend is likely controlled primarily by the diversification of trilobites and the appearance of new clades. A decrease in the abundance and an associated rapid increase in thickness of fossil accumulations in the latest Cambrian is likely tied to lithologic changes associated with changes in accommodation space. Sedimentary rocks from inner detrital, carbonate platform, and outer detrital belts contain taphonomically and stratigraphically distinct suites of shell concentrations. Relatively thin storm-generated event concentrations are most common in the inner and outer detrital belts, whereas composite and condensed shell beds predominate in carbonate platform facies. The environmental variations in shell accumulations across the Cambrian shelf are controlled primarily by physical processes, such as storm events and current and/or wave agitation. The common association of shell beds with hiatal surfaces and meter-scale stratigraphic cycles indicates that many Cambrian trilobite-dominated shell beds can be used as key marker beds for stratigraphic analysis.
10.2307/3514480|Cluster analysis of 31 echinoid species from the Late Eocene of the Gulf Coast area delineates 5 major stratigraphic-ecologic associations: an early assemblage containing a clypeasteroidprominent fauna of shallow-water, near-shore species; two later offshore, spatangoid-prominent associations; a transitional assemblage between these early and later ones; and a general assemblage containing broad-ranging species. The utility of echinoids as biostratigraphic and paleoenvironmental indicators is illustrated and discussed.
10.2307/3514820|The inhabitants of hydrothermal vents appear to represent a relict fauna that has remained distinct from other marine faunas for tens to hundreds of millions of years. A re-examination of the composition of vent collections provides further support for this hypothesis. Members of common deep-sea phyla such as sponges, coelenterates, and echinoderms are rare at vents which suggests physiological barriers to the colonization of the habitat. Possession of a protective surface may be a prerequisite. The vent fauna is endemic at the level of 95% of its species and 22% of its families. Vent inhabitants across the Pacific and in the Atlantic are more closely related to each other than to any other habitat. The vent fauna has developed from four sources: from the nearby deepsea community, from a widespread fauna of generalists, from a sulphophilic fauna, but mostly from long-term in situ evolution. The high degree of taxonomic novelty is evidence of this temporal separation from the rest of the ocean. Comparative morphology and the fossil record for the barnacles and gastropods are particularly compelling. Many animals are hold-overs from the Mesozoic and have retained ancestral characteristics. New discoveries of paleo-vent assemblages indicate colonization of the habitat in the middle Paleozoic. It is suggested that life at the hot vents is far removed from the major causes of mass extinction and the subsequent adaptive radiations in new clades. Bolide impacts or volcanic activity that affect productivity and climate patterns on the Earth's surface and, subsequently, in the deep-sea have little effect on an ecosystem that, apart from its requirement for oxygen, is nearly self-sufficient. Thus the vents are a refuge for novel derivatives of ancient forms.
10.2307/3515513|Of More than 4000 specimens of the naticid gastropods Euspira heros (Say) and Neverita duplicata (Say) from southern New Jersey, the lower Pleistocene of North Carolina, upper Miocene of Maryland, and the lower Miocene of Delaware, subsamples with complete and incomplete boreholes (n = 613) were compared for borehole-site stereotypy, prey size-selectivity, prey profitability, and prey effectiveness. In confamilial encounters, adaptation of naticid predators is evidenced by a shift in borehole-site stereotypy on the body whorl toward the umbilicus during the last 18 my, particularly for N. duplicata. Inferentially, an umbilical drilling position enabled the base of the predator's foot to occlude the prey aperture and prevent egress of the dangerous prey's foot, thereby reducing the prey's escape potential. The tradeoff was that the umbilical site required the predator to drill through a thicker shell location. Prey effectiveness, the ratio of incomplete boreholes to total attempts, was initially low (0.03) for both species in the lower Miocene, but increased appreciably from the Pleistocene to the Recent for N. duplicata (0.32). Such increase in successful prey escape indirectly may reflect prey adaptation since the Miocene. Cost / benefit curves, i.e., log of the ratio of apertural lip thickness / internal shell volume regressed on whorl diameter (WD), have significantly greater negative slopes for Miocene versus Recent conspecifics. Lower cost/benefit ratios for successive size classes of modern naticids suggest that confamilial prey have become increasingly profitable molluscan options as they increased in size, despite increased risk of fatality to the predator. Decreasing naticid prey size-selectivity, as evidenced by lower regression correlation coefficients since the Miocene, reflects increasing mismatches between predator and prey size. Outcomes of size mismatches in predatory encounters between E. heros and N. duplicata were not predictable necessarily given potential differences in species agressiveness and foot size. This unpredictability fueled coevolution between these cannibalistic moonsnails and their dangerous intraspecific and interspecific prey.
27670423|The Manutahi-1 core of Wanganui Basin, New Zealand, provides a special opportunity to investigate variations in depositional paleoenvironments by way of high-resolution paleoecologic and sedimentologic studies in a succession that accumulated under the influence of late Neogene rapid glacioeustatic sea-level oscillations. Thirty cyclothems of the Matemateaonga Formation (late Mioceneearly Pliocene) have been identified through a 960 m interval of the core. Temporal patterns in both lithofacies distribution and macrofaunal paleoecology indicate a close link with environmental shifts that took place over the duration of these sixth-order sea-level cycles (41 kyr duration). Because foraminiferal assemblages have proven to be depauperate in the Manutahi-1 core, macrofossils, especially bivalves and gastropods, are used as the primary source of paleoecologic data. The paleoenvironmental analyses presented here have relied extensively on the transfer of ecologic data from the modern fauna to extant or closely related species observed in the core. Most notably, a relative sea-level curve has been constructed for the Matemateaonga Formation from analysis of bathymetric data for appropriate modern taxa. A range of exploratory statistical approaches, including cluster and ordination techniques, allow rapid, objective, and reproducible classification of macrofaunal associations and the elucidation of large-scale paleoenvironmental patterns. Several implications arise from this study. First, sequence boundaries and other key surfaces are confidently identified on the basis of integrated sedimentologic, taphonomic, and paleoecologic investigation. Second, changes in depositional environment and the responses of benthic communities are revealed at a range of temporal scales. The temporal pattern of paleoecologic change appears to be the result of lateral, facies-related shifting of biofacies (habitat tracking) in response to sea level, sediment flux, and other associated paleoenvironmental variables. Temporal patterns of biofacies occurrence and diversity are, however, strongly overprinted by stratigraphic and taphonomic processes.
10.2307/3515411|Analysis of the late Eocene House Range flora can shed light on the climatic and tectonic history of the Sevier Desert, Utah. It is the first described flora from the middle Tertiary of western Utah, and it grew on the hanging wall of both the Sevier-age Canyon Range thrust and the middle-Tertiary Sevier Desert detachment fault. The flora, which is preserved in a lacustrine limestone on the east flank of the House Range, is dated as Chadronian (late Eocene) on the basis of an associated gastropod. This age determination is consistent with a single-crystal 40<sub>Ar</sub>/39<sub>Ar</sub> date of 31.4  0.5 Ma from a nearby outcrop of the Windous Butte tuff which contains clasts of the limestone. Physiognomic analysis of the fossil angiosperm leaves implies a mean annual temperature (MAT) of 13.2  2.9<sup></sup> C and a growing season precipitation of 85  30 cm. The vegetation is physiognomically most similar to modern warm-temperate floras from Japan. MAT-based and enthalpy-based altimeters derive paleoelevations of 3.6  0.7 km or 2.9  1.5 km for the flora, compared to a modern elevation of 1.7 km. This paleoelevation, if taken to be representative of regional paleoelevation, implies that the Sevier orogen was high, but then collapsed to modern elevations during middle and late Cenozoic extension.
10.2307/3515201|In Texas coastal bays and in many other low energy environments a high degree of shell fragmentation (generally from 75 to 95 weight percent) is characteristic of shell material in sediment samples. The feeding activity of predators such as the euryhaline sciaenid Pogonias cromis (Black drum), which is a common inhabitant of Atlantic and Gulf of Mexico shallow marine waters, is responsible for fragmenting large quantities of live molluscan shell material in environments in which the natural energy gradient precludes extensive mechanical fragmentation. P. cromis locates potential food items with sensory barbels located on its lower jaw. Prey are ingested and crushed with pharyngeal teeth. Shell material may be rejected orally or may pass through the digestive system. The digestive tracts of 105 specimens of P. cromis contained fragments and whole shells of gastropods and bivalves. Species with vagile and attached epifaunal as well as shallow and deep infaunal life styles were represented. Fragment size ranged from less than 0.5 mm to 20 mm with mean fragment size generally related to the size of the prey species. Fragment shape is related to the size and architecture of the prey species. Surprisingly, juveniles and sub-adults commonly survive the crushing process as intact valves while adults and individuals of larger species are always fragmented. This suggests that feeding activity of this type introduces a size bias into shell material entering the taphonomic cycle. The shell material examined showed virtually no evidence of dissolution or abrasion that could be attributed to the feeding activity of the fish. Very little evidence was noted for extensive intercommunity mixing by transportation and redeposition of shell material by this large, mobile predator. Calculations using the reported commercial landings of P. cromis in Texas bays as a minimum population estimate together with the average weight of stomach contents removed from the specimens used in this study suggest that this species is responsible for processing well over one million kilograms of shell material annually.
40606427|Detailed sedimentological and quantitative taphonomical analyses of 11,974 fossil specimens from an early Cambrian (Stage 3) Chengjiangtype deposit near Haikou, Yunnan, reveals significant relationships between the original depositional environments and the composition and preservation of their respective fossil assemblages. In general, the Maotianshan Shale is characterized by superimposed couplets of laminated background and thin event mudstone layers representing two distinct taphofacies, A and B, respectively. Fossils in taphofacies A consist predominantly of indeterminate organic elements and fecal or algal strings with few, poorly preserved, soft-bodied animals. Among those, disarticulated arthropods account for 84.3% of specimens (mostly isolated valves of Kunmngella douvillei) and 51.4% of species. Poriferans represent 7.4% of specimens and 22.9% of species. Fossils in this taphofacies have undergone significant pre-or syn-burial decay and represent limited timeaveraged assemblages exhibiting low species richness. By contrast, taphofacies B contains greater numbers of species and specimens and better preserved soft-bodied annuals. Taphofacies B represents mostly smothered organisms by distal tempestites. Arthropods are also dominant in taphofacies B, both in terms of species richness (41%) and abundance of specimens (44%). Poriferans, priapulids, lobopods, and brachiopods exhibit similar low species richness (6-8% each), but poriferans and lobopods are numerically rare, at around 1% each, whereas priapulids and brachiopods make up 26% and 24% of specimens, respectively. The arthropod Kunmngella douvillei (19%), the priapulid Cricocosmia jinningensis (19%), and the brachiopod Diandongia pista (18%) are the most abundant species in taphofacies B. Fossil assemblages in taphofacies A and B have similar recurrent and abundant species and similar temporal trends in evenness and richness, but taphofacies A captures only a portion of the species that are preserved in taphofacies B. These results suggest that the fossil assemblages present in both taphofacies represent a single local community subjected to two different taphonomic processes and imply similar recurrent environmental conditions within the section studied.
10.2307/3515094|Reliable measurement of the original diversity of paleo-vegetation must account for many influences: the amount of time and space represented by the sample, the number of plant parts in the sample, the stature of the paleo-vegetation in relation to sample area, and the preservational quality of the sample, as well as the number of species in the source community and their relative abundances. Plant compression fossil assemblages from river or delta floodplain environments generally have undergone minimal time and space averaging, which allows species richness to be measured and compared at a variety of temporal and spatial scales. Comparison of late Paleozoic and early Cenozoic wet floodplain vegetation reveals little difference in species richness or diversity at the smallest measurable spatial scale, based on samples of a few square meters representing 0.1-0.5 hectares of source vegetation. Outcrop transects several hundred meters to several kilometers long that sample across minor variations in wet floodplain habitat also show similar levels of diversity in the Paleozoic and Cenozoic, with the exception of one Cenozoic transect with very high diversity. Diversity differences between Paleozoic and Cenozoic sites and transects are far less than would be expected based on global species richness curves for the Devonian through Pleistocene. The small differences in the diversity of wet floodplain vegetation probably relate to several factors, including the number of trees that can coexist in a small area, difficult edaphic conditions on wet floodplains, and perhaps the geologically early colonization and saturation of these habitats. The difficulty of making reliable measures of plant diversity in the fossil record, and the absence of change observed with relatively high quality data, suggest that biological explanations for changes in global species richness through geological time are premature.
40606485|Only the small (2.0  0 . 1 cm) orthide brachiopod Rhipidomella in the Middle Devonian Dundee Formation exposed at Whitehouse Quarry, Ohio, preserves evidence of interactions with endoskeletobionts and predators (39.6%, n = 48), as opposed to the slightly larger atrypides, spiriferides, and stropheodonts (n = 245). All traces of prdation and boring by other organisms are lacking on such larger brachiopods as strophomenides and spiriferides, which are more often encrusted in Devonian localities of North Americathe Silica Shale of Ohio, Hamilton Group of New York, and Cedar Valley Limestone of Iowa. Punctate shells of Rhipidomella preserve interactions with endoskeletobionts and predators, phenomena less common for punctate brachiopods. All traces on Rhipidomella were preserved as endoskeletobionts; if calcified encrusters were present, they likely were lost postmortem. Several Rhipidomella individuals bear partially repaired grooves from parasitic interactions with sinuous, boring organisms, attributed to ctenostome bryozoans. These parasites bored into the shell along the commissure, likely benefiting from the inhalant and exhalant currents produced by the brachiopod, and in some cases, expanded away from the commissure following the host's death. The straight, U-shaped borings in one Rhipidomella specimen with boreholes are similar in morphology to Caulostrepsis traces that occurred with their tubes opening along the margins of a modern brachiopod. Other endoskeletobiont traces likely formed on the postmortem shells of Rhipidomella. Prdation repair scars are present on two specimens, indicating the presence of predators and the survival of some Rhipidomella individuals from durophagy. No specimens contain evidence of drilling predators.
10.2307/3515395|Carbonate concretions containing permineralized peat, commonly called coal balls, were encountered in the Amburgy coal, a generally low-ash (9.4 %), but commonly high-sulfur (3.6 %), Middle Pennsylvanian coal of the Eastern Kentucky Coal Field. These are the first coal balls from the Amburgy coal, and one of only a few reported occurrences from the central Appalachian Basin. The coal balls occur in the upper part of the coal, between two paleochannel cut-outs at the top of the Pikeville Formation, and immediately beneath a scour with a marine fossil lag at the base of the Kendrick Shale Member, Hyden Formation. The coal is thickest (1.3 m) in a narrow (<300 m), elongate depression between the bounding paleochannels, and thins toward the occurrence of coal balls. Total biovolume as measured from acetate peels of coal balls indicates cordaites or lycopsid (36.1 % each) dominance. Vertical sampling through one coal-ball aggregate shows zoning from a lower cordaites-dominant (88.7%) assemblage, to a middle, degraded, sphenopsid-rich assemblage, to an upper lycopsid-dominant (88.6%) assemblage. Beneath the coal balls, palynologic and petrographic analyses indicate the basal and middle portions of the bed are dominated by arborescent lycopsid spores and cordaites pollen, and by vitrinite macerals. The top part of the bed, above the coal balls, contains increased inertinite macerals, increased percentages of small fern spores, and variable ash yield (5-21%). Thickening of the Amburgy coal along a structural low, in combination with basal high-ash yields, vitrinite-dominance, and heterogenous palynoflora, indicate paleotopographic control on initial peat accumulation. Abundant lycopsid spores in the basal and middle part of the coal reflect rheotrophic conditions consistent with accumulation in a paleotopographic depression. Apparent zonation preserved in one of the coal-ball masses may document plant successions in response to flooding. Similar percentages of cordaites and lycopods, respectively, in the zones above and below the degraded incursion interval reflect development of a mixed, successional pattern in response to the flooding. Coal-ball formation may have been facilitated by channeling along the Kendrick ravinement, within a paleotopographic depression, at the split margin of the Amburgy peat, either through direct transmittal of carbonates and marine waters into the peat, or through degassing of the peat beneath the scour.
20173037|The causes of global biological diversification and the nature of ecological change during taxonomic radiations are central questions in paleobiology. It has long been recognized, however, that apparent increases in global taxonomic richness need not be mirrored in local communities. Here, using field data and literature sources from Laurentia, it is shown that genus richness in well-preserved subtidal macrobenthic marine communities increased by as much as a factor of two from the Middle Cambrian to the Late Ordovician. Several potential sources of bias have been addressed in this study, including taphonomic effects, water depth, lithology, sample size, and differences in the relative numerical abundance of taxa (evenness). Excluding samples from environments that may have been oxygen stressed and omitting samples that closely follow Cambrian biomere extinction intervals result in much less complete temporal sampling and significantly influence apparent short-term patterns of biodiversity, but do not change fundamentally the overall richness and evenness trajectories. The apparent magnitude and timing of the increases in local richness and evenness, however, is sensitive to such factors. The overall richness trajectory is also sensitive to how evenness is treated quantitatively. If evenness is assumed to represent a biological positive correlate of richness, then rarefaction is most appropriate and suggests an Early Ordovician richness increase. If evenness is treated strictly as a bias in richness estimates, then most of the richness increase appears to have occurred by the late Cambrian (Marjuman), with only a modest increase after the Arenigian.
10.2307/3515137|Twenty-four ichnospecies of vertebrate trackway have been recorded from the Permian sediments of Scotland, most found in the Corncockle Sandstone Formation of Dumfries and Galloway and the Hopeman Sandstone Formation of Grampian. Studies on these trackways suggest that the trackmakers were slow, broad animals that moved with a distinctly sprawling or semi-erect gait but without dragging their tails or feet. Estimated speeds of travel range from only 0.65 km hr<sup>-1</sup> to 9.76 km hr<sup>-1</sup>. Total body lengths vary from 116 mm to 830 mm. A study of manus and pes skeletons and body lengths of the various groups of Permian vertebrates suggests that the Cotylosauria, the Pelycosauria and the Therapsida were the main producers of the Scottish trackways. The nature of sandstone exposure among the Scottish Permian basins, the nature of trackway preservation and the fact that the exact horizon of trackway finds was not usually recorded severely limit the biostratigraphical usefulness of these trackways.
40606434|Cheilostomes dominate bryozoan faunas today and are the only order of bryozoans to have evolved aragonitic, calcitic, and bimineralic skeletons.New XRD analyses of 177 recent species and 34 Cretaceous-Eocene species are combined with published data to probe the mineralogical evolution of cheilostomes. This is undertaken with particular reference to the effects of the late Paleogene transition from calcite to aragonite seas believed to have been driven by the increasing Mg/Ca ratio in seawater. Aragonite was absent from all of the Cretaceous and Paleocene cheilostomes analyzed, even though most came from deposits preserving aragonitic mollusk shells, but was detected in four distantly related cheilostomes from the middle Eocene (Lutetian). Examples of cheilostomes preserved as partial molds, however, suggests that bimineralic species with aragonitic outer skeletal layers may have originated as early as the Maastrichtian. A strong latitudinal gradient was evident in cheilostome mineralogy, with the proportion of aragonitic and bimineralic recent species increasing towards the tropics. Unfortunately, relatively few low-latitude bryozoans have been described from the Cretaceous and Cenozoic fossil record, where aragonitic species are likely to be most numerous and may have their oldest occurrences. A combined database of cheilostome mineralogy shows aragonite to be widely distributed across Cheilostomata, occurring in numerous genera and families belonging to the three most diverse subgroups (Flustrina, Umbonulomorpha, and Lepraliomorpha) as well as one genus of Malacostegina. In spite of the lack of a robust phylogeny for cheilostomes, it is clear that aragonite has evolved independently on multiple occasions, the earliest acquisitions antedating the onset of aragonite seas, although apparently accelerating after this transition.
20173026|Laboratory experiments on microbial decay were used to investigate the conditions required for pyritization of decaying twigs, as it provides an important source of data on the anatomy of fossil plants. Plane (Platanus acerifolia) was chosen as the experimental taxon, because this genus is preserved in pyrite in the Eocene London Clay. Experiments were designed to develop sulfate reduction under marine conditions, and each contained estuarine sediment with added iron oxide (1%) with a layer of pH-buffered artificial seawater medium above, which had a labile organic-matter source (yeast extract) and an inoculum of anaerobic, sulfate-reducing bacteria. Twigs (5) were pressed into the sediment and the systems incubated with a loose lid, in air at 15C for up to 12 weeks. These conditions were varied to reflect those thought to promote pyrite formation in the natural environment (high concentrations of reactive iron and bioavailable organic matter, local concentration of decaying material, concurrent high concentrations of sulfide and iron, and oxidation of iron sulfides), plus variations in incubation time, anoxia, pH, and sulfate supply. Changes in the chemistry of the decay systems were monitored with oxygen and pH microelectrodes, and concentrations of sulfate, sulfide, ferrous iron, and sedimentary solid-phase sulfide pools were analyzed at the end of each experiment. All systems rapidly developed bacterial sulfate reduction, dissolved iron, and iron sulfides. In only 2 out of 18 reference systems were areas of some twigs pyritized, however, although this did occur rapidly (5.4 weeks). No twigs in the modified systems were pyritized despite up to a 240% increase in solid-phase iron sulfides, the presence of diffusion gradients of ferrous iron and sulfide, the focus of sulfate reduction on the twigs, and pyrite formation in the sediment. Neither slightly oxidizing nor completely anoxic conditions enhanced pyritization. These results suggest that conditions that promote formation of sedimentary pyrite differ considerably from those that facilitate pyritization of twigs. Pyritization can occur rapidly in conditions common in marine sediments with intense microbial activity, but the process is rather random and may be controlled by the nucleation of pyrite on decaying tissue rather than factors controlling pyrite formation.
10.2307/3515325| A systematic stable isotopic study of an exceptionally well-preserved Baculites compressus specimen from the Pierre Shale (Upper Campanian) of South Dakota was conducted to assess whether the variations recorded in the calcareous shells of baculitids can be used as a reliable indicator of paleoenvironmental conditions. We sampled the B. compressus conch along four sampling profiles: (1) an ontogenetic traverse parallel to growth direction, (2) a virtually isochronous traverse along two different lirae delineated by growth lines, (3) a septal traverse, and (4) a shell-wall traverse through the conch wall. To date, the ontogenetic sequence is the longest record produced from baculitids. We interpret the isotopic variations determined from the ontogenetic, septal, and depth-profile traverses to be dominated by an environmental signal, especially in shell material deposited prior to septal crowding (i.e., maturity). In contrast, we interpret the isotopic variations determined from the isochronous traverse along the two different lirae to be altered by "biological vital effects." Our results indicate that a careful sampling strategy that avoids strongly ornamented areas of the shell is required if a "true" paleoenvironmental signal is to be extracted from the calcareous shells of baculitids, and perhaps other ammonites as well. Our best estimate of seasonal seawater-temperature variation in the Late Campanian Western Interior Seaway at 42N, based on the oxygen isotopic data from the baculitid specimen, is 10.0C (range of 29.7C to 19.7C). 
10.2307/3514892|Fruits and seeds were quantitatively sampled from litter at two sites on a mangrove island off the coast of Belize. The collections indicate that a significant number of species are drifted to the island by the prevailing currents and have the potential to record the major elements of the nearby mainland coastal and streamside flora. There is almost no overlap between the drifted fruit and seed flora and the flora growing on the island, whereas the leaf litter reflects the island flora both qualitatively and quantitatively with a reasonable degree of accuracy. These observations indicate that approaches to paleoecological and paleofloristic reconstructions of ancient floras based on accumulation of organic remains can differ substantially depending on the organ type studied. Studies which can take advantage of both vegetative and reproductive fossil remains with an appropriate methodology for sampling and analyzing the data can provide information on ancient environments at more than one spatial scale.
40865497|The Eocene Tallahatta Formation exposed in the eastern United States Gulf coastal plain includes enigmatic siliceous facies characterized by variably indurated claystone, porcelanite, and subordinate thin sandstone and siltstone beds. Ichnosedimentologic studies at localities in eastern Mississippi and Alabama indicate that these strata accumulated in middle-shelf settings (offshore transition). Sandstone and siltstone beds record storm events of variable magnitude. Moderately diverse Cruziana ichnofacies assemblages that reflect overall hospitable fair-weather conditions characterize most mudrock intervals; however, periodically oxygen-deficient or otherwise unfavorable conditions are indicated locally by unbioturbated mudrock. Storm beds associated with bioturbated mud typically contain mixed Cruziana-Skolithos ichnofacies assemblages reflecting the work of both opportunistic(?) and fair-weather tracemakers. In contrast, ichnofabrics of storm beds that were not disrupted by fairweather bioturbation likely record short-term colonization of substrates by organisms that were transported, sorted, and redeposited by storm currents. Ichnofabrics and diagenesis of the siliceous facies are linked. Ichnofossils locally influenced silica cementation in some storm beds, whereas preferential conversion to porcelanite of siliceous clay intervals immediately below and above many storm beds dramatically enhanced the visibility of fair-weather ichnofabrics.
10.2307/3514934|Organisms that live on or beneath the seafloor, or an object connected to the seafloor, should be referred to as benthic (not benthonic). Bottom dwellers can be divided into epibenthic or endobenthic, depending on whether they spend most of their lives or deploy the majority of their bodies above or below the substrate, respectively. Terms like epifauna and infauna should be avoided because they suggest organisms living on/within other "host" organisms, which is not the usual meaning. A few subdivisions of these categories are useful; more could be recognized as needed, but it is advisable to keep the terminology as simple as possible. For instance, endobenthic organisms can be divided into the following overlapping subcategories: endosedimentary (organisms living within granular substrates, such as soupy mud, firm sand, or loose gravel); endolithic (endobenthos of firm or hard mostly inorganic substrates, such as submarine hardgrounds); endobiontic (a special category for organisms living mostly or wholly within the tissues or body parts of other living or dead organisms); and endoxylic (another special category for benthos living within woody substrates).
25835648|Since population studies are most reliable when applied to census assemblages, edrioasteroid paleoecology can best be understood by examining catastrophically buried obrution communities. This paleoecologic study examines a carbonate hardground surface encrusted with four species of isorophid edrioasteroids: Curvitriordo stecki, Carneyella ulrichi, Carneyella pilea, and Streptaster vorticellatus. Analysis of edrioasteroid diameters, a proxy for age, shows a bimodal distribution for Curvitriordo stecki, suggesting a hiatus in recruitment or multiple spatfalls. Low juvenile mortality may explain a left-skewed distribution among individuals of Carneyella ulrichi. Lack of juvenile individuals of S. vorticellatus suggests that this population matured from a single spatfall; there were too few specimens of C. pilea for analysis. Edrioasteroids on this surface exhibit no preferred ambulacral orientation. Spatial analysis (SA) shows an inter-specific clustered distribution at several spatial scales. Intraspecific SA indicates a clustered distribution for Curvitriordo stecki and Carneyella ulrichi; there were too few specimens of S. vorticellatus and C. pilea for analysis. Examination of inter- and intraspecific edrioasteroid taphonomy reveals that thecal collapse, disarticulated cover plates, and disarticulated interambulacral plates occur in nearly half of the population, suggesting brief post-mortem exposure on the paleoseafloor without protection of sediment cover. Individuals of S. vorticellatus suffered thecal collapse, yet all plates and ambulacra remained intact, suggesting that robust thecal elements may inhibit thecal disarticulation.
10.2307/3515160| In the late Miocene (Messinian) of the Sorbas Basin, SE Spain, marine microbial domes forming biostromes and bioherms can be traced virtually continuously from the mid-shelf, down a steep paleoslope, to the basin floor. On the shelf they developed in fan-deltas and oolite shoals. The fan-deltas spilled sediment downslope which was also colonized by and incorporated into the deeper water domes. The domes show macrofabric variations from laminated (stromatolite), to clotted (thrombolite), and structureless (leiolite, new term; Gk leios = uniform or smooth, lithos = stone: microbial deposit with structureless macrofabric). The stromatolites and thrombolites vary in the distinctness of their macrofabric, from distinct, to crude and diffuse. These macrofabrics relate to environment. Leiolites appear only in the mid-shelf and thrombolites at the shelf-break. Stromatolites are present throughout the transect, but dominate the slope and basin. Macrofabric types do not relate directly to either dome components or microfabrics. Both components and microfabrics are relatively uniform throughout the transect and reflect formation by a combination of agglutination of allochthonous grains and of in situ microbial calcification. Thus, accretion processes were similar throughout the transect. Macrofabric instead reflects variation in accretion style (regularity and evenness) in response to environmental controls, particularly water movement and illumination. Mid-shelf leiolite hemispherical dome formation was dominated by more-or-less continuous trapping of oids, creating grain-dominated microfabrics. Episodic trapping of mainly siliciclastic grains produced thrombolite and stromatolite dome accretion at the shelf-break and downslope. Where accretion was even, it resulted in laminated (stromatolite) macrofabric. Uneven accretion resulted in clotted (thrombolite) macrofabric. On the shelf-edge high energy and good illumination promoted development of tall, mainly thrombolitic domes with crude to diffuse macrofabrics. Lower energy and illumination resulted in regular and continuous, distinct-to-crude stomatolitic layering in lower relief slope and basin domes. 
3515836|The littleneck clam Protothaca staminea in Argyle Creek and Argyle Lagoon on San Juan Island (Washington, USA) provides an ideal opportunity to test the effect of life habits on the taphonomic signature of shells. This bivalve exhibits two different modes of life in adjacent habitats: infaunal in muds and muddy sands (Argyle Lagoon) and free epifaunal on gravels (Argyle Creek). The mode of life significantly affected the taphonomic signature of both live and dead shells. Epifaunal P. staminea exhibit more damage than infaunal shells, suggesting that the infauna has a greater fossilization potential and may be more heavily affected by time-averaging than the epifauna. Both live infauna and epifauna suffered important taphonomic modifications after death, especially on the internal surface of the shell, but infauna did not reach the high level of damage acquired by the epifauna. In Argyle Creek, taphonomic agents were more effective at the sediment-water interface than within the sediment. Because mode of life has a significant influence on processes of preservation, different taphonomic patterns in fossil bivalves do not necessarily imply different postmortem histories of shells, even when the taphonomic analysis is restricted to a single species. Some external modifications and internal shell damage cannot be regarded as unambiguously postmortem since edge and color modification, external corrosion and encrustation, and internal bioerosion can occur during the lifetime of the animal. Finally, this paper shows that a single bivalve species can exhibit more than one mode of life even within closely proximate environments. The typical mode of life is reflected in shell morphology while the secondary one is not. Thus, functional-morphology studies of extinct species can lead to incomplete interpretations of the range of a bivalve's life habits. An integrated approach combining functional morphology, comparisons with close relatives, and lithofacies analysis can be useful in paleoecological interpretations of extinct bivalve species.
27670599|A diverse assemblage of Australian Ediacaran (late Neoproterozoic) acritarchs from the Centralian Superbasin and Adelaide Rift Complex demonstrates a range of taphonomic degradation. Recognition of taphonomic variants is critical for taxonomic studies and biostratigraphic interpretation. Taphonomic features observed include compression features, folding and tearing of vesicle walls, pitting, perforation, abrasion, exfoliation, shrinking, twisting, splitting, curling, shredding, pyritization, particle entrapment, and thermal maturation effects. The physical and chemical structure of the vesicle wall is instrumental in determining the degree of taphonomic damage. Consistent associations allow identification of degradation series that incorporate previously described individual species and provide a framework for taxonomic revision. Taphonomic associations may also characterize taphofacies, providing an additional tool for basin analysis.
10.2307/3515117|Incremental growth has long been known in living and fossil scleractinian corals, and also has been recognized in Paleozoic rugose and tabulate corals. The usefulness of growth studies and geochemistry has been demonstrated in the study of environmental aspects and population structure of modern and fossil corals. Until recently it has not been possible to evaluate variations in the geochemistry of fossil skeletal carbonate. Use of a modern electron microprobe (Superprobe) allows mapping of trace element distribution within skeleton, here of Tabulophyllum traversensis from the Middle Devonian (Givetian) Traverse Group of Michigan. Detailed microprobe mapping of magnesium distribution clearly illustrates incremental skeletal growth in this species, with growth marked by alternating bands of magnesium-free and magnesium-rich carbonate (relatively speaking, as maximum concentrations approximate only 0.5 weight percent MgO). Such banding allows evaluation of diagenetic change in this type of carbonate skeleton, here almost lacking. Understanding of incremental variation of chemical composition (trace elements) can add to our knowledge of coral skeletal structure and its diagenesis, chemistry of ancient sea waters, and understanding of paleobiology of extinct Paleozoic corals, the Rugosa and Tabulata.
10.2307/3514557|Sequences of organic-rich, laminated mudrocks deposited under oxygen-deficient conditions commonly contain interbedded, bioturbated intervals that reflect periodic episodes of improved bottom-water oxygenation. On the basis of differential ichnofossil preservation, many of these redox event beds are divisible into two parts: a "primary stratum" and a "piped zone." Primary strata, characterized by vague burrow mottling and the lack of discrete biogenic structures, represent sediments that have passed through the surface mixed layer. Piped zones, which occur at the interfaces between primary strata and subjacent darker laminated strata, are characterized by well-preserved, discrete trace fossils that represent the earliest emplacement of transition layer burrows in sediments that have not passed through the surface mixed layer. The anatomy of these bioturbated beds can be used to infer the relative durations and magnitudes of the oxygenation events responsible. Based on the thickness of primary strata and the extent of cross-cutting of ichnofossils in the piped zones, two general types of redox events can be recognized: 1) short-term events, and 2) extended events. Systematic increases in burrow diameter, depth of burrow penetration, and diversity of trace-fossil assemblages within piped zones provide evidence for increasing magnitude of oxygenation episodes. The utility and limitations of this approach are illustrated through an example application to twelve bioturbated intervals within black shales of the Jurassic Posidonienschiefer of southern Germany. These beds can be categorized as one of three types, each of which are interpreted to reflect differences in oxygenation-event histories.
10.2307/3515423|Small stromatolites and thrombolites occur in Kelly Lake, British Columbia, Canada. Thrombolites appear as well-lithified, irregular calcite crusts on hard submerged surfaces, whereas poorly mineralized stromatolites exist on the thrombolite crusts as small laminated hemispherical domes 1.0 to 2.0 cm in diameter and height. Microscopic examination of the thrombolitic crusts reveal the presence of many coccoid and fewer small filamentous cyanobacteria. In contrast, large filamentous cyanobacteria are predominant in the stromatolitic domes. The inorganic carbon and elemental content of the two different microbialites are similar; however, the stromatolites contain more organic carbon (0.5% dry wt) than the thrombolites (0.2% dry wt). This implies that the production rate of organic matter in the stromatolites is higher, relative to the calcification rate, than in the thrombolites. Stable carbon isotope analyses show that the calcite precipitated within the microbialites is enriched in <sup>13</sup>C compared to the dissolved inorganic carbon (DIC) source. The enrichments are the result of photosynthetic <sup>12</sup>C fractionation by the respective microbial communities. Calcite precipitated within the stromatolites is even more enriched in <sup>13</sup>C than that within the thrombolites, corresponding to an enhanced productivity level for the filamentous cyanobacteria in the stromatolites. These data indicate that the degree of mineralization, isotopic fractionation, and morphogenesis of modern microbialites are controlled to a large extent by relative rates of microbial growth and calcification.
3515862|The encrustation of Paleozoic rhynchonelliform brachiopods has been studied for decades, but modern brachiopods have not received similar scrutiny. The discovery of abundant subtropical brachiopods from the Southeast Brazilian Bight provides an unprecedented opportunity to assess epibiont abundance, diversity, and encrustation patterns in modern brachiopod assemblages. Across the outer shelf, encrustation frequencies vary among taxa, from mean values of 0.45% for Platidia to 9.3% for Argyrotheca Encrustation frequencies for Bouchardia increase from 1.6% on the outer shelf to 84% on the inner shelf. Larger valves are encrusted more frequently, and epibionts preferentially colonize valve interiors. Increased encrustation on the inner shelf may reflect the greater surface area of larger hosts, longer exposure of dead shells, water-mass characteristics, sedimentation rates, productivity, or other factors that vary with depth. Inner-shelf brachiopods exhibit encrustation frequencies comparable to those reported for epifaunal bivalves. The epibiont fauna is dominated by bryozoans and serpulids, with minor roles played by spirorbids, bivalves, barnacles, foraminifera, algae, and other taxa. Epibiont abundance at each site is highly variable, but sites are similar in rank importance of epibiont taxa. A different suite of epibionts colonized Paleozoic brachiopods, but similar patterns of encrustation have been observed, including preferential settlement according to valve morphology. These results provide a baseline for evaluating the encrustation of modern bivalves and ancient brachiopods, and may elucidate the macroevolutionary history of epibionts and their relationship to their hosts.
27670500|Studies of phosphatic concretions and associated marine-shelf sediments in the Upper Cretaceous Ripley Formation, central Alabama, demonstrate the positive impacts that early diagenetic mineralization may have on ichnofossil preservation. Distinct ichnofossils are poorly expressed in highly bioturbated, calcareous, organic-rich muds owing to lack of three-dimensional expression, limited contrast between biogenic structures and ambient sediments, and compactional deformation. In contrast, phosphate concretions that formed at shallow sediment depths during early diagenesis exhibit a Cruziana ichnofacies assemblage. This assemblage indicates both (1) incidental preservation, whereby large burrows served as concretion nuclei, and (2) collateral preservation, whereby biogenic structures were incorporated within or on exteriors of concretions as diagenetic fronts migrated outward from body-fossil and other nuclei into surrounding sediments. Although most Ripley Formation ichnofossils were emplaced prior to mineralization, some apparently reflect burrowing that was contemporaneous with and influenced by phosphatization. In either case, concretion growth enhanced ichnofossil visibility by boosting contrast with host sediment, by rendering structures or portions thereof in three dimensions, and by precluding significant compaction. Concretion-hosted ichnofossil assemblages in the Ripley Formation and comparable deposits, analogous to conservation traps in the body-fossil realm, can be regarded as ichnofossil Lagersttten.
40865404|The recovery of an intact, 10 m long fossil baleen whale from the Pliocene of Tuscany (Italy) offers the first opportunity to study the paleoecology of a fully developed, natural whale-fall community at outer shelf depth. Quantitative data on mollusk species from the whale fall have been compared with data from the sediments below and around the bones, representing the fauna living in the muddy bottom before and during the sinking of the carcass, but at a distance from it. Although the bulk of the fauna associated with the fossil bones is dominated by the same heterotrophs as found in the surrounding community, whale-fall samples are distinguishable primarily by the presence of chemosymbiotic bivalves and a greater species richness of carnivores and parasites. Large lucinid clams (Megaxinus incrassatus) and very rare small mussels (Idas sp.) testify to the occurrence of a sulphophilic stage, but specialized, chemosymbiotic vesicomyid clams common at deep-sea whale falls are absent. The Orciano whale-fall community is at the threshold between the nutrient-poor deep sea and the shallow-water shelf, where communities are shaped around photosynthetic trophic pathways and chemosymbiotic specialists are excluded by competition.
3515737|Leaf size and shape are selected by climate and are strongly correlated with climatic variables. Accordingly, fossil dicotyledonous leaves are considered to be among the most reliable indicators of terrestrial paleoclimates. However, the methods used have much potential for improvement. All currently rely on discrete, usually binary characters, but leaf morphology is better evaluated and more reproducibly measured using continuous variables. Digital leaf measurement offers the possibility of continuous, reproducible variables, with the potential to improve paleoclimate estimates as well as the ecological and evolutionary understanding of leaf form. Results are reported for five variables measured on 238 leaves representing the woody species from three living test floras-two temperate and one humid tropical. The variables are: shape factor (an area:perimeter ratio standardized to a circle); the ratio of feret diameter (diameter if leafs area is contained in a circle) to major axis length; the ratio of tooth area to leaf area; tooth count; and tooth count standardized to leaf perimeter. It is well known that increased mean annual temperature is correlated with a high percentage of untoothed species. By extension, increasing temperature is expected to be associated with relatively undissected, more circular leaves (i.e., with high shape factor, low tooth-area:leaf-area ratio, and low tooth count). These trends were observed in the test floras, both between the tropical and the temperate sites and between the two temperate sites. Shape factor was the variable that resolved the three sites most significantly. The five variables show promise for testing on an expanded set of floras sufficient to develop statistical models for paleoclimatic studies.
40606437|We report on the first record of a pterosaur from Alaska. This record consists of a single manus track from the lower part of the Upper Cretaceous Cantwell Formation in Denali National Park, Alaska, United States, making this the northernmost occurrence for this group of reptiles.The specimen is from deposits that record a low-lying floodplain with small lakes and ponds, dissected by small channels that fed a larger tributary stream on an active fan lobe. The dominant vegetation was comprised of conifers with an understory of ferns and horsetails.
10.2307/3514901|Utilization of ichnofabric indices for measuring recorded extent of bioturbation allows comparative studies of ichnofabric between different facies. In vertical sequences, measurements of ichnofabric indices can be normalized to percent of the total thickness measured for each ichnofabric index. These data can be presented as histograms, or "ichnograms", when measurements are from strata deposited in a single genetically-defined sedimentary environment. Ichnograms can be used in conjunction with ichnofacies analysis to present a more complete summary of bioturbation in a sedimentary unit. Using a knowledge of the factors which contribute towards producing ichnofabric in different sedimentary environments, the range of possible ichnograms for any environment can be modeled. In addition to ichnograms, an average ichnofabric index also can be calculated as a useful summary characterization of the extent of bioturbation recorded in a sedimentary unit. Through measurement of ichnofabric indices, construction of ichnograms, and calculation of average ichnofabric index, broad-scale summary data are produced that can allow a more complete understanding of the physical and biological dynamics of sedimentary basins, especially when employed in conjunction with other basin analysis approaches.
40865496|A large number of specimens (~ 500) of the hyolithid Hallotheca cf. aclis (Hall) were collected from the Middle Devonian Arkona Shale at Hungry Hollow, Ontario, Canada. This is an unusually large sample for Devonian hyolithids and only the second record of hyolithids from the Michigan Basin. Furthermore, the conchs of seven specimens are bored, and the holes are single, complete, circular in plan view, and with their long axes perpendicular to the walls of the conch. These traits and the fact that the holes are stereotyped with respect to the side of the conchall occur on the venterare consistent with a predatory origin of the holes. Although bored specimens represent only ~1 % of the sample, this record expands the taxonomic breadth of bored prey during the middle Paleozoic, a time previously recognized as characterized by intensification of predator-prey interactions.
27670325|Modern taphofacies analyses have been worked out for different mixed carbonate and siliciclastic sedimentary environments using molluscan faunas. Studies of how the combined effect of the physical, chemical, and biological characteristics of the environment of deposition results in a particular taphonomic signature on fossilizable remains must be done on Recent assemblages to understand taphonomic signatures of ancient faunas. Studies have defined modern taphofacies by erecting broad damage categories to which each sample is assigned. Others graphically characterize environments based on individual taphonomic indices (e.g., fragmentation, abrasion), rely on presence-absence data, or construct ternary taphograms for each taphonomic characteristic. This study defines taphofacies based on a statistical treatment of the entire taphonomic signature of molluscs from several carbonate reef and lagoon systems in the northeastern Caribbean. The method uses non-metric multidimensional scaling ordination to test whether the combined taphonomic signature is recognizable across closely associated shallow carbonate environments. Results show that a statistical technique combining many taphonomic factors is a reliable method for deciphering taphonomic signature. It is most important, however, to test whether taphofacies defined using modern shells can be applied to the fossil record. Taphonomic traits from mollusc shells obtained from reef cores were added to the same statistical routine and assigned environments of deposition based on their taphonomic signature. Molluscs from within the cores suggest that the shelf and patch-reef environments on the SW coast of Puerto Rico have remained fairly stable up to at least 7,000 ybp. Shells were recovered that had distinct reef and open-shelf taphonomic signatures. Shells from cores from Buck Island, U.S. Virgin Islands had signatures that suggested migration of the reef over seagrass areas of the shelf, and/or landward into the lagoon behind Buck Island reef. Thus, not only does the total taphonomic signature mirror the environment of deposition, but the taphonomic signature is likely to be preserved well enough to be useful in making paleoenvironmental interpretations of fossil material.
25835623|In the Wadden Sea, shell repair frequency in the small gastropod Hydrobia ulvae varied from 2.8% to 11.2%. On tidal flats of the Mok, a small bay on the island of Texel, The Netherlands, in the Wadden Sea, higher repair frequencies varying from 11.8% to 41.8% were measured. The shelduck, Tadorna tadorna, a predator of Hydrobia, occurs here in densities far above average densities for the Wadden Sea. Shelducks ingest their prey whole and crush the shells of H. ulvae internally. Live specimens of H. ulvae were collected from shelduck feces. Those with intact operculum and only a damaged outer aperture rim of the shell were kept in aquaria and repaired their shell rapidly. This indicates that predators that ingest shelled prey can also leave repair scars on shells. Such scars, however, are indistinguishable from those resulting from failed predation by predators using such pre-ingestive shell breakage as decapod crustaceans.
10.2307/3514665|The 1982-1983 El <tex-math>$Ni\tilde no$</tex-math> was the strongest such event recorded this century, resulting in widespread coral mortality in the eastern Pacific. To search for sclerochronological evidence of this event, heads of Porites lobata were sampled at different depths from several locations on the reef at Isla del <tex-math>$Ca\tilde no$</tex-math>, Costa Rica. The  <sup>18</sup>O stratigraphy was obtained from several hundred analyses from vertical sections through the coral heads. The timing and magnitude of the 1982-1983 El <tex-math>$Ni\tilde no$</tex-math> are accurately recorded in the isotopic records, which indicate that this event was several times stronger than other "strong" El <tex-math>$Ni\tilde nos$</tex-math>. Isla del <tex-math>$Ca\tilde no$</tex-math> does not experience annual upwellings, and the 1982-1983 El <tex-math>$Ni\tilde no$</tex-math> was not accompanied by greatly increased rainfall; these factors probably explain the excellent agreement between oceanographic data and the isotopic stratigraphy. It is now possible to infer magnitude and chronology of similar climatic disturbances in core or outcrop samples, and to link this with vertical changes in reef communities.
3515794|Following extensive Late Triassic coral-constructed reefs and the aftermath of the Triassic-Jurassic mass extinction, Early Jurassic buildups are rare and constructed primarily by bivalves. The Pliensbachian exhibits a radiation of aberrant pterioid bivalves, the "Lithiotis" bivalves, which include: Lithiotis problematica, Cochlearites loppianus, Gervilleioperna sp., Mytiloperna sp., and Lithioperna scutata. These large bivalves are ubiquitous in shallow, nearshore tropical waters and restricted to the Early Jurassic recovery interval. Field and thin-section observations indicate a strong zonation of "Lithiotis" bivalves in shallow nearshore environments. Gervilleioperna and Mytiloperna are restricted to tidal-flat and inner-platform facies. Lithioperna scutata is found throughout the lagoonal subtidal facies and even in some low-oxygen environments. Lithiotis and Cochlearites construct buildups in subtidal facies, and both taxa exhibit discordant valves-one valve is converted into a pedestal, the other is an opercular valve. The largest buildups attain lengths over 60 m and thicknesses of 3-5 m. It is proposed that the reef-building bivalves Lithiotis problematica and Cochlearites loppianus filled the relatively empty ecological niche of reef-building during the Early Jurassic (Lias), only to be replaced by their predecessors, the scleractinian corals, by the Middle Jurassic. The other "Lithiotis" bivalves (Lithioperna scutata, Mytiloperna, and Gervilleioperna sp.) lived in restricted lagoonal environments with possible fluctuating salinity on Early Jurassic (Liassic) carbonate shelves. Lithiotis and Cochlearites, in contrast to many oysters, do not orient their commissure planes in a single direction. Instead, these two buildup-constructing genera radiate out from a central bouquet, possibly maximizing exposure to light rather than current. Due to their growth habit, extensive calcification, presumed oligotrophic environment, and pseudocoloniality, these two genera may have harbored photosymbionts. Severe environmental changes and associated unusual seawater chemistry of the protracted Early Jurassic recovery may have led to suppressed coral-reef growth and the rapid radiation of reef-building bivalves.
10.2307/3515152|Taphonomic data obtained from extant Caribbean regular echinoids were compared with the Pliocene and (mainly) Pleistocene fossil records of the same species. The cidaroid Eucidaris tribuloides occurs as distinctive radioles throughout the Pleistocene of the region, but only one fossil test has been reported. The echinometrid Echinometra lucunter is more commonly known from fossil tests; additionally, radioles and ambulacral plates of Echinometra sp. or spp. are common in the last interglacial Falmouth Formation of Jamaica. Diadematoid plates, probably mainly derived from Diadema antillarum, are locally a very common constituent of the late Pleistocene fauna in Jamaica, but are only readily apparent in microscopic analyses of bulk samples. The toxopneustid Tripneustes ventricosus only occurs as very occasional fragmentary specimens. The deductions based on experimental data agree favorably with these semi-quantitative observations.
20172978|Thousands of animal tracks are preserved in wind-blown cross-strata of the Lower Jurassic Navajo Sandstone at Coyote Buttes on the Arizona-Utah border, USA. Tracks deform thin grainflows that were deposited on the slip faces of large dunes. In cross-section, laminae (pin stripes) are smoothly folded, and are only very rarely broken. There is no sign of a central shaft left open when the trackmaker's foot was withdrawn from the substrate. At the top of each track, folded laminae are truncated by the pin stripe that marks the base of the next (younger) grainflow. Within some trackways, progressively younger tracks move up-section to younger grainflows. The folded, unbroken pin stripes and absence of a distinct shaft fill are inconsistent with a moist-sand (cohesive) substrate. Stratigraphic relationships between tracks and grainflows indicate that, as the animals moved across the slip face, they triggered dry avalanches, and then stepped on the newly deposited grainflows. Although scour by grainflows can remove shallow tracks, the loose packing (high porosity) of grainflows ensures that the feet of larger animals will penetrate well below the level of the next erosive surface. Although dry dune sand previously has been denigrated as a medium for track preservation, this example shows that dry eolian grainflows, due to their loose packing and their position in the zone of flow separation on the dune lee slope, can preserve abundant, clear tracks. A dry-sand origin of the tracks corroborates an earlier interpretation of the grainflows as December-February (dry season) deposits of cross-equatorial winds.
10.2307/3515266|Previous work has suggested that escalation may have characterized the history of the naticid gastropod predator-prey system, based on apparent increases in drilling frequencies and the occurrence of antipredatory aptations among prey. We evaluate this hypothesis based on a comprehensive survey (over 40,000 specimens) of predation on molluscs from the Upper Cretaceous through lower Oligocene formations within the U.S. Gulf and Atlantic Coastal Plain. Patterns in drilling of both bivalve and gastropod prey are complex. Drilling frequencies were relatively low in the Cretaceous but increased sharply above the Cretaceous-Tertiary boundary, remaining high until the late Eocene. Following a significant decline near the Eocene-Oligocene boundary, drilling frequencies increased to a moderate level in the Oligocene. Contrary to our prediction based on the hypothesis of escalation, no temporal trend of increasing stereotypy of drillhole site occurred. However, significant increases in prey effectiveness (indicated by the incidence of incomplete drillholes and multiply bored shells) occurred between the Cretaceous and Oligocene. This pattern characterizes entire faunas as well as individual prey taxa that were consistently heavily drilled (turritellid gastropods and corbulid bivalves).
10.2307/3515588|A quantitative palynological study of the Paleocene/Eocene transition in western Venezuela was undertaken to detect and analyze possible cyclic patterns. Two different methodologies were used, palynocycles and ecologs, and their results are compared. A total of 237 outcrop samples from three formations deposited in continental to coastal environments were analyzed for pollen and fern spores. Several palynological cycles are recorded and correlated with third-order global eustatic cycles. A high-frequency cyclicity of ca. 220,000-year period also was found. Both methodologies recorded the same cyclic patterns and can be considered complementary. Ecologs are easier to use, but have less interpretative potential. Palynocycles are more complex, but also more descriptive and help detect small hiatuses. Diversity values reach maxima at cycle boundaries and their minima in the middle of cycles. This distribution has been interpreted in terms of different palynomorph sources under conditions of high and low sea level. During the Paleocene/Eocene transition, diversity shows a constant ascending trend, probably due to a long-term, world-wide climatic warming.
10.2307/3515550|Biofacies and taphonomic analysis has allowed for the reconstruction of the paleoenvironmental history of accumulation of a series of spectacular mollusk-dominated shell-concentrations from the Puerto Madryn Formation and the benthic assemblages that inhabited the Miocene sea in northern Patagonia, Argentina. An upward-shallowing from open mid-shelf to more restricted shoreface-foreshore environments has been recognized. Transgressive, Maximum Highstand and Regressive phases are recognized based on the integrated approach of assemblages and lithofacies arrangement. Eleven mollusk-dominated fossil assemblages were defined and grouped into Associations A, B, and C. Transgressive and Maximum Highstand phases preserve three main shell beds that record an upwards change from dynamic to complete bypassing conditions. These were deposited in tidal current-dominated mid- and inner-shelf environments and belong within Association A. The top bedding surface records the maximum depth attained by the sea. The Regressive Phase is characterized by three upward-deepening cycles comprised of foreshore-shore-face sandbar deposits containing Association C. Sandbars are capped by environmentally condensed shell-beds of Association and record deposition from the shoreface (wave-breaking zone) to mid-shelf environments, all above storm-wave base. Based on these fossil assemblages, seven benthic life associations can be identified. The deepest ones inhabited the mid-to-inner shelf and were represented by suspension-feeders from gravel-substrata swept by strong tidal currents and by suspension-feeders from lower energy firm bottoms. Lower shoreface sandy bottoms, close to fairweather wave base and affected by weak tidal currents, were inhabited by epifaunal suspension-feeders, whereas sandy bottoms close to the fairweather wave-breaking zone were characterized by semi-infaunal deposit feeders and suspension feeders. The shallowest living assemblages inhabited intertidal and foreshore settings and were represented by soft-bottom infaunal suspension feeders, as well as by firm bottom, vagile carnivorous and suspension-feeding epifauna.
27670613|A significant vegetational change occurs in the Late Mississippian (Serpukhovian, Namurian A) across the Enna Marine Zone (EMZ), Upper Silesian Basin, Czech Republic. All plant clades were impacted, including both spore-producing and seed-producing taxa; wetland taxa were unaffected. Similar vegetational responses are not identified elsewhere although, basinwide, thick marine zones (e.g., Barbora Marine Zone, BMZ) also developed at various times during the Serpukhovian. Examination of sedimentological and petrophysical (gamma-ray log) trends in both marine zones indicates that different mechanisms generated accommodation space during each interval. Placed in a genetic stratigraphic context, the EMZ records sedimentation in at least four (or more) genetic sequences, each equal in duration to individual 100-kyr cyclothems identified in the coalfield. Discrete maximum flooding surfaces (MFSs) with associated condensed sections and macrofaunas are prominent in distal areas and were identified using gamma-ray log responses. In contrast, the petrophysical expression of distal regions of the BMZ shows no strong positive gamma-log excursions interpreted as MFSs. Rather, this interval is a succession equal in duration to two cyclothems. The BMZ represents sedimentation in a glacial-interglacial cyclothemic framework; in contrast, the EMZ represents accumulation under continued eustatic sea-level rise in response to southern hemisphere deglaciation and global warming. Late Mississippian vegetational response to paleoequatorial climate change is interpreted to represent a shift toward greater seasonality, with an increased number of dry months (monsoonal rainfall pattern?) resulting in statistically significant extinction or extirpation several million years prior to the onset of maximum glaciation and sea-level drawdown at the MississippianPennsylvanian boundary.
3515825|The Early Albian Oceanic Anoxic Event 1b (OAE 1b) black shale is interrupted by one or more ventilation events that display significant changes in benthic and planktic populations. Within the OAE 1b sections studied, at ODP Site 1049, DSDP Site 545, and the Vocontian Basin, the benthic foraminiferal repopulation events last between ~500 and ~1,250 years and occur with a cyclicity of approximately 5.7 kyr. This period may represent an amplitude modulation of the precessional cycle. The OAE 1b sections from the marginal setting of the Vocontian Basin exhibit up to eight repopulation events. In contrast, there is only one repopulation event identified in the Atlantic OAE 1b sections from the Mazagan Plateau (DSDP 545) and Blake Nose (ODP 1049). Within the margin of dating uncertainties, this supraregional repopulation event occurred synchronously in the Vocontian Basin and the Atlantic Ocean. While the OAE 1b black shale formed under extremely warm and humid conditions, the repopulation events occurred during intervals of short-term cooling and reduced humidity at deep-water formation sites. The resulting increase in evaporation led to enhanced formation of low-latitude deep water, thus improving the ventilation of the sea floor.
27670391|Outcrops of the Lower Triassic (Spathian) Virgin Limestone Member (Moenkopi Formation) in the southwestern United States contain the oldest known metazoan bioherms formed in the aftermath of the end-Permian mass extinction. These small buildups, up to 1.0 m in diameter and 0.2 m high, were constructed by cementing bivalves. The bivalve bioherms accreted in a shallow, subtidal environment above storm wave base atop an oolitic hardground on a carbonate ramp. Similarities in shell microstructure and bioherm morphology between the Lower Triassic buildups reported here and previously described Middle Triassic occurrences suggest that the Lower Triassic bioherms were likely built by a bivalve assignable to Placunopsis. Although taxonomic assignment of the bivale remains uncertain, the presence of cemented bivalve bioherms in Lower Triassic sections of the southwestern United States demonstrates that cementing bivalves were geographically widespread, even early in their Mesozoic evolutionary history. Despite their bioherm-building ecology, cementing bivalves do not occur in Middle Triassic platform-margin reefs, underscoring the decoupling of the recovery of framework-building metazoans from the return of large carbonate platform-margin reefs in the wake of the end-Permian mass extinction. These first Mesozoic bioherms built by metazoans represent a significant ecological advance in the evolutionary history of bivalves in that the cementing life-mode had reappeared before the end of the Early Triassic.
10.2307/3515428|The Late Jurassic Suihent petrified forest is located in the Gobi desert of southeastern Mongolia (43<sup></sup> 34<sup></sup> 54<sup> </sup> N, 108<sup></sup> 06<sup></sup> 12<sup> </sup> E). The forest is represented by well-preserved silicified trees, including in situ stumps and preferentially oriented logs, all encased in a pyroclastic surge deposit. More than 72 upright stumps and 49 horizontal logs crop out in a belt approximately 100 m wide and 720 m long. The largest stump is 1.75 m in diameter and the longest log is 13 m in length. The orientation of the logs reflects that the pyroclastic flow originated northeast of the forest. Sanidine in the ash-flow tuff has been dated at 156  0.76 Ma by <sup>40</sup>Ar/<sup>39</sup>Ar geochronology. Forty-two samples of silicified wood were collected from the site for detailed paleoclimatologic tree-ring analysis. Cell structure is excellently preserved in seventeen wood samples. Several features of the growth rings are notable and climatologically significant. These include narrow latewood, paucity of false rings, and low mean and annual sensitivity values. These characteristics indicate that growth was steady during the growing season, but ceased abruptly at the onset of unfavorable conditions, and that interannual growth was fairly consistent. Water supply was likely the limiting factor for growth. Thus, the Suihent petrified forest, which grew at a paleolatitude of 46<sup></sup> N, provides strong evidence of a paleoclimate that was highly seasonal with a rapid cessation of the growing season. These results are consistent with the presence of a monsoonal climate in this region of central Asia during the Late Jurassic.
10.2307/3514894|A detailed analysis was made of living and death assemblage abundances of benthic foraminiferal species in the top 10 cm of three high quality box cores from the Gulf of Mexico (water depth = 1170, 1050, and 1020 m). These data, combined with sedimentological studies and analysis of the biotic activity in the sediments (using Pb-210 profiles), were used to examine the processes controlling the transformation of living to fossil assemblages. The data show that the benthic fossil assemblage is generated throughout the top 10 cm of the sediments, so that the surface sediment assemblage can be quite different from that preserved below 10 cm in the sequence. Further, the comparison of living and death assemblage records reveals that taphonomic processes are active within the top 10 cm of the sediments. The death assemblages show evidence of substantial specimen loss in the bioturbated interval just below the surface. This loss may be especially significant for surface dwelling species or the fraction of the species population living at or near the surface. These results have implications for the paleoceanic interpretation of benthic foraminiferal assemblage and isotopic data.
10.2307/3515044|The widespread phenomenon of faunal clustering in concretions is examined in examples from the Late Cretaceous Bearpaw Formation of southern Alberta. Concretion-hosted shell clusters have traditionally been interpreted as biologically formed features. In contrast, sedimentologic, taphonomic and faunal evidence in the Bearpaw Formation suggests that shell clustering is inherently related to a common physical control. The clustered nature of the Bearpaw assemblages reflects the accumulation of shells in isolated storm scours. Differences in faunal composition resulted from variations in (1) the mode of scour initiation, (2) the faunal content of sea-floor sediments, and (3) the degree of shell transport experienced during storms. The formation of the isolated scours is attributed to locally augmented erosion in the vicinity of bed defects and objects exposed on the sea floor. The common restriction of fossils to concretions reflects preferred concretion growth around the shell-rich scour fills. Previously described examples of concretion-hosted shell clusters are re-interpreted in light of the scour-fill hypothesis.
10.2307/3515525|The recent discovery of abundant trace fossils in the Lower Devonian Muth Formation (Pin Valley, Spiti, northern India) contributes to our understanding of the diversity and distribution of Early Devonian arthropod activities in a marginal marine environment. The ichnoassemblage consists of abundant Palmichnium antarcticum and Diplichnites gouldi with rarer Diplopodichnus biformis, Taenidium barretti, Didymaulichnus cf lyelli, Didymaulyponomos cf. rowei, Selenichnites isp., and vertical burrows of unclear affinity. The abundance of trackways enables the documentation of size- and gait-variations among producers of single trackway ichnotaxa. The paleoenvironment of the Muth Formation is interpreted as a barrier island system. Four different fades associations are recognized; arthropod trackways occur only in beach to coastal dune environments (facies association 2). Most of the Palmichnium and Diplichnites trackways are interpreted as subaerial. The abundance and frequently sub-parallel orientation of the Palmichnium antarcticum trackways, predominantly perpendicular to the paleocoastline, suggest that stylonurid eurypterids, which are interpreted as their producer, were migrating across the shoreline and climbing up slip faces of barrier island dunes. The similarity of this ichnofauna to others in marginal marine environments of similar age in Antarctica and Australia allows the identification of a recurrent Lower Devonian ichnocoenosis around the margins of eastern Gondwana.
10.2307/3515528|The oldest known fossil charcoal, to date, is herein reported from a Late Devonian (Famennian 2c) fluvial deposit in the Catskill Formation of north-central Pennsylvania. The charcoal was found in an abandoned channel setting in association with abundant well-preserved macrofossil plant remains of Archaeopteris, Rhacophyton, cormose lycopsids, Gillespiea, and cupulate and acupulate gymnosperms. Detailed anatomical preservation of the charcoal combined with its paleoecological setting suggests that in this landscape, mostly Rhacophyton burned, perhaps in association with an interpreted annual dry season. Alternating wet and dry seasons are indicated by the presence of paleovertisols. The fossil site where the charcoal was found also has yielded terrestrial arthropods, numerous fishes, and two early tetrapods.
27670548|An exceptionally preserved subadult specimen (JRF 115H) of a hadrosaurid, Brachylophosaurus canadensis, from the Judith River Formation near Malta, Montana, contains abundant plant fragments concentrated within the body cavity. We examined the taphonomy of the carcass and analyzed the gut-region material to test whether the organic remains represent fossilized gut contents. The dinosaur was buried in a fluvial channel setting, and the excellent articulation, integument impressions, and lack of scavenging indicate rapid burial. The organic material occupies a volume of at least 5750 cm3, and comparable material is not found outside the carcass. The carcass contents include 63% clay, 16% undetermined matrix, 12% organic matter, and 9% larger inorganic clastsmostly 50100 m quartz grains. Most of the organics appear to be mm-scale leaf fragments. The most parsimonious explanation for the presence and composition of the gut-region material is that much of the plant fossils represent reworked brachylophosaur ingesta influenced by flowing water that entered through openings in the carcass and introduced clay. The evidence strongly suggests that the hadrosaurid ate significant quantities of leaves and processed them into small pieces. This study provides baseline information for analyzing other cases of putative gut contents in herbivorous dinosaurs.
20172982|The ichnogenus Psilonichnus and its named ichnospecies are evaluated for their utility in paleoenvironmental reconstructions. A combined ichnological-sedimentological model for shoreface-estuarine-fluvial settings is presented herein to show distributions of the ichnospecies of Psilonichnus in an ichnofacies framework. High-resolution differentiation of coastal paleoenvironments may be achieved in strata containing Psilonichnus only if the trace fossils are identified to ichnospecies level, and if they are assessed as sedimentary structures within a depositional context. The simple Y-, J-, and I-shaped, vertical to inclined burrows referred to as Psilonichnus include three distinct ichnospecies-P. tubiformis, P. upsilon, and P. lutimuratus. Each can be attributed to either of two decapod crustacean progenitors, thalassinoid mud shrimp, or ocypodid ghost crabs. The ichnogenus occurs in association with the Psilonichnus, Glossifungites, and Skolithos ichnofacies in estuary / bay to backshore / dune sedimentary settings. Psilonichnus has proved to be an effective paleoenvironmental indicator, especially in studies of sequence stratigraphy. To date, however, inconsistencies in both ichnotaxonomic and ichnofacies assignments for Psilonichnus, and confusion regarding probable tracemakers, have diminished its usefulness to sedimentary geology. To avoid such problems, each new field occurrence of a potential Psilonichnus trace must be evaluated thoroughly within its biological, ecological, and physical context.
20173008|Years of over-fishing combined with increased nutrient pollution have had a catastrophic effect on the ecology of the Chesapeake Bay. The Holocene record of bay mollusks may provide a baseline for ecological restoration, but the effects of taphonomic bias on these assemblages first must be assessed. In this study, a live-dead comparison was carried out on four sites distributed in the main channel of the upper bay. Molluscan death-assemblage data were obtained from replicate box-core samples from which whole specimens and fragments were sorted, identified, and counted. Data on live communities at the same sites, sampled over the past twenty years, were provided by the Chesapeake Bay Program, making it possible to examine the degree to which death assemblages reflect long-term changes in the live community. Traditional live-dead metrics document a strong agreement between live-community and death-assemblage estimates of species composition, richness, and abundance-77% of the species in the live community are found in the death assemblage, and 99% of the individuals of species found in the death assemblage are found in the live community. Correlations between live and dead estimates of species richness are not statistically significant, although they do improve with longer-term sampling of the live community. Rank abundance of taxa in the death assemblage is correlated strongly and significantly with live rank abundance regardless of the duration of live sampling. These results suggest that Holocene molluscan assemblages may provide useful estimates of richness and abundance for Chesapeake Bay restoration.
27670600|Numerous rhabdoglyphid trace fossils in Cretaceous pelagic limestones from the French and Swiss Alps are ascribed to the ichnogenus Halimedides Lorenz von Liburnau, 1902. The heart-shaped chambers, interpreted as storage chambers, are joined to tunnels in a linear pattern. The burrow system is classified as an agrichnium. Morphological characteristics of the burrows indicate that small infaunal crustaceans were the likely trace makers. Halimedides are deep-sea traces that indicate relatively firm media (substrates)stiffground to firmgroundbased on paleoenvironmental and morphological evidence. The usual association of Halimedides with Rhizocorallium and Spongeliomorpha clearly place them in the Glossifungites ichnofacies. Halimedides may be an indicator of subtle gaps in sedimentation. Densely chambered Halimedides are interpreted to indicate lower oxygenation, whereas sparsely chambered burrows indicate higher oxygenation of bottom waters. Consequently, Halimedides may be a useful tool for interpreting water depth, media consistency, sedimentation rate, and seafloor oxygenation.
27670497|This study tests the fidelity of shallow-water gastropod skeletons as multiproxy archives of paleoenvironmental change by comparing isotopic and trace-metal analyses of specimens of Conus ermineus. Four adult specimens were collected live from Stetson Bank in the northwestern Gulf of Mexico during the summer of 2003. Shells were sampled along axes of growth to produce time-series profiles spanning up to 8 years. 18O and Sr/Ca profiles show seasonal cyclicity modified by fast summer and slow winter shell growth. The profiles were combined to estimate paleosalinity. This yields variable results that overestimate salinity range; nevertheless, annual salinity minima and maxima are still evident. The overestimates are attributed to interspecimen Sr/Ca variability and error in the 18Osw-salinity regression. Profiles of 13C show seasonal variation superimposed on a decreasing ontogenetic trend, the latter ascribed to decreasing metabolic efficiency also reflected by an ontogenetic increase in Sr/Ca. Seasonal 13C variation reflects changes in the 13C of dissolved inorganic carbon (13CDIC). Salinity and 13CDIC at Stetson Bank strongly correlate (R2 = 0.80, p < 0.0001), and shell 13C minima coincide with local salinity minima following times of peak river discharge. These 13C minima terminate during annual shelf current reversals. Low-salinity waters directly account for less than half the variability in shell 13C but enhance summer stratification and trap respired CO2 from sediment pore waters. Specimens from this study show mean 13C values 1% lower than C. ermineus collected from Stetson Bank in 1971, reflecting the decrease in 13CDIC from anthropogenic CO2.
10.2307/3514826|Identifying ancient cold seep faunas is intertwined with the problem of distinguishing autochthony from parautochthony. Cold seep faunas are autochthonous assemblages. Taphofacies from an allochthonous microtidal inlet, a parautochthonous inner shelf and an autochthonous upper slope (representing cold seep faunas) were compared to identify their distinguishing characteristics and to facilitate cold seep recognition. The taphonomic signature of the allochthonous inlet assemblage is dominated by abrasion and edge alteration. Bivalves are completely disarticulated. The size-frequency distribution is weakly bimodal and dominated by small individuals. The taphonomic signature of the parautochthonous inner shelf assemblage is dominated by moderate dissolution and edge alteration combined with minimal abrasion. The size frequency distribution is unimodal and skewed towards small size classes. The cold seep autochthonous assemblages are characterized by extreme dissolution and edge alteration, a strongly bimodal size-frequency distribution and a bivalve fraction with a variable, but frequently high, frequency of articulation. A strong onshore/offshore gradient exists for most taphonomic attributes that probably originated in the correlation of increased autochthony with increasing distance offshore, decreasing water energy and increasing water depth. Abrasion decreased with increasing autochthony whereas dissolution increased with increasing autochthony. The parautochthonous assemblage was the least taphonomically-altered of all three assemblages since shelf shells are buried more rapidly than slope shells, exhumed less frequently than inlet shells, and thus taphonomically younger than the rest. Ancient cold seep assemblages share many of the taphonomic characteristics of modern autochthonous cold seep assemblages. However, additional sedimentological, paleoecological and geochemical criteria must be used in conjunction with taphonomic analysis to help distinguish cold seep assemblages from other autochthonous assemblages in the fossil record.
40606456|We present pollen and stable isotope (C, O, N) data from a ~4 m core (TNF-1) of primarily mangrove peat taken from Turneffe Atoll, Belize. Radiocarbon (accelerator mass spectrometry) dates show that the record represents ca. 5000 years of sediment accumulation. Vegetation composition varied between dominant mangroves (primarily Rhizophora mangle) and Chenopodiaceae-Amaranthaceae, most likely Salicornia bigelovii. The pollen data, along with inferences from stable isotope analyses of bulk peat and fossil leaf fragments, indicate that marked environmental changes occurred at this location over the past ca. 5000 years. There was a transition between ca. 4100 and 2900 cal yr BP, from vegetation dominated by relatively tall mangroves (R. mangle) to one dominated by Chenopodiaceae-Amaranthaceae and then Myrica, most likely wax myrtle (M. cerfera). These changes bracket a period centered at ca. 3500 calibrated years before present, where there is a peak in the O of mangrove leaf fragments. This timing corresponds with other paleoenvironmental records of climate drying in Central America and increases the geographic and habitat scope (i.e., mangrove habitat) of records documenting these changes. Interpretations of shifts in mangrove habitat, however, require consideration of additional environmental influences, including changes in groundwater hydrology and relative inputs of seawater and freshwater (i.e., precipitation) during the Holocene.
10.2307/3514861|Cuticular analysis is a valuable method for the identification, classification and correlation of fossil gymnosperm remains. The history of cuticular analysis is briefly summarized. Sampling and preparation methods are described as well as the most important characters used for the identification of fossil gymnosperm cuticles. Brief characterizations of cuticles of the major gymnosperm groups occurring in the Paleozoic and Mesozoic of Europe and North America are given with references to relevant publications. The potential use of gymnosperm cuticles for the identification of gymnosperm remains, correlation of their dispersed organs, biostratigraphic, paleoecologic and paleoclimatologic interpretations are briefly discussed.
10.2307/3515105|Skolithos is the dominant sedimentary structure in Cambrian foreshore/shore face deposits. Diopatra cuprea, a predaceous, tube-building polychaete, has been cited as a possible modern analog for the Skolithos organism. This investigation examines the spatial distribution of D. cuprea across several tidal flats and evaluates how well D. cuprea population parameters parallel those of some Cambrian and Silurian Skolithos. A sampling network was constructed encompassing a tidal pool and channel on an ebb-tidal delta shoal (ETDS) in Chincoteague Inlet, VA, and traverses were surveyed from the high- to low-tide line in Tom's Cove of Assateague Island, VA. The number and position of worm tubes within a square meter grid were recorded for each station. The number of tubes per grid varied from 0 to 83. Fewer numbers of D. cuprea were present at higher intertidal reaches, whereas lower intertidal areas had potentially higher numbers of organisms. Densities were at a maximum near mean low-water and decreased into the subtidal zone. Analysis of the worm distribution using the Clark and Evans nearest neighbor technique within each grid indicated significant clustering of D. cuprea at high densities and a highly variable distribution at low densities. R values (mean observed/mean expected for a random population) indicated clustering in 69% of the ETDS grids and 72% of the Tom's Cove grids. Coefficients of dispersion of 5.1 to 24.6 corresponded to significant aggregation of the D. cuprea population about the low-water line. Observed densities of D. cuprea were an order of magnitude lower than densities reported for Cambrian and Silurian Skolithos. This discrepancy may be related to the relatively instantaneous nature of observations within the D. cuprea population versus a time-averaged picture showing multiple colonization of a particular substrate through time in the case of Skolithos. The vertical change in Skolithos abundance in Cambrian, tidal-flat deposits in Virginia is comparable to the reduction in numbers of observed D. cuprea with height above low water on a modern tidal flat. The clustered distribution of D. cuprea contrasts with the uniform distribution of Cambrian Skolithos in the Bradore Formation and the random distribution of Silurian Skolithos in the Thorold Formation. Different spacing patterns may be attributable to dissimilar feeding modes. Both Skolithos and D. cuprea show aggregated populations that are concentrated near the low-water line.
3515655|The Omingonde Formation of Central Namibia is a redbed succession infilling a half-graben that developed on the upland plateau of southern Gondwana in the early mid-Triassic. Field studies of the rocks and vertebrate fossils of these strata are used to reconstruct the changes that occurred in the rift valley landscapes over approximately 10 My, and show how these changes affected the life habits and preservation of terrestrial reptiles that inhabited the valley at that time. The early rift basin contained extensive lakes that were filled rapidly with conglomeratic sands deposited on alluvial fans prograding from the active boundary fault. These fans subsequently drained into an axial braided river system. With cessation of downfaulting, the fault scarp retreated and gradients in the basin became gentle enough to convert the braid plain to one or more meandering rivers confined by extensive floodplains. The climate changed from sub-humid at the beginning of rifting, through semi-arid for most of the Omingonde times, to arid at the onset of the overlying Etjo Formation sedimentation. The influx of abundant loessic silt, possibly a peripheral effect of the Triassic "megamonsoon," significantly increased floodplain accretion and the burial potential of surface bones on the Upper Omingonde floodplains. The major control of fluvial style and floodplain accretion rates in the Omingonde basin was subsidence caused by episodic movements of the boundary fault. However, the association of desiccated and mummified carcasses with thick beds of loessic silt suggests that climatic aridity was the overriding factor controlling the preservation and taphonomic style of vertebrate remains.
10.2307/3514975|Thrombolitic fabrics of the Rocknest Formation, Northwest Territories, Canada have been variably interpreted, and classified as cryptomicrobial boundstones. Under close re-examination, these rocks reveal macroscopic and microscopic fabrics which are indeed thrombolitic in nature. Despite pervasive dolomitization, relic fabrics within Rocknest thrombolites provide evidence for constraints on the mechanism of clot development. These thrombolites are significantly different from younger Proterozoic thrombolites and their Phanerozoic counterparts, containing far less detrital sediment and greater abundances of marine cement. Rocknest clots are interpreted as probable calcified microbial communities. However, calcification of Rocknest thrombolites occurred through the inorganic encrustation of probable microbial communities by marine cements, rather than by in situ calcification of microbial sheaths as suggested by younger thrombolites. Inorganic encrustation may have been in part induced by chemical changes in the depositional environment due to microbial photosynthetic activity, but the significant abundance, distribution, and texture of cements within the thrombolite indicates primarily inorganic precipitation. This result implies a stronger reliance on physical and chemical aspects of sedimentation in the formation of Rocknest thrombolitic fabrics than is suggested by younger thrombolitic fabrics.
27670596|The Cenozoic stratigraphic sequence in the foothills of the Eastern Cordillera of Colombia is mostly fluvial in nature and very thick (8000 m), but it contains very few mollusk-bearing horizons. Recent fieldwork discovered a well-preserved molluscan assemblage that occurs near the top of the Carbonera Formation (lower Miocene) in the central foothills of the Eastern Cordillera. This level, named the Huesser horizon, is laterally extensive and can be followed for tens of kilometers. The horizon is 10 m thick and was divided into eight levels, five of them highly fossiliferous. Most of the levels are dominated by the freshwater gastropod Sheppardiconcha, with lower abundances of the bivalves Anodondites and Mytilopsis. The top level is dominated by specimens from the bivalve family Arcidae. The taxonomic composition of the assemblage is similar to that of the Magdalena and Amazonas Basins during the early-to-middle Miocene. Paleoecologic, taphonomic, and palynological analyses indicate that the Huesser accumulated in a freshwater lake system, capped by a marine incursion. The development of a large lake and the subsequent marine event could be related to increasing subsidence coincident with eustatic sea-level rise that has been identified for the basin during the early Miocene.
10.2307/3515146|Echinoderms are relatively fragile and highly variable in terms of post-mortem durability. Different styles or rates of decay among different species of asteroids are likely to depend upon the amount and arrangement of soft tissues which link the ossicles within the body wall. This study examines the mechanical behavior of the aboral integument of Solaster stimpsoni and Pisaster ochraceus after intervals of decay as an indicator of their relative preservability and post-mortem strength. Tissue samples were allowed to decay at 14 C in running seawater or buried in fine wet sediment. The maximum force required to break samples of Solaster decreases significantly over a period of nine days, at which time complete decay of the body wall occurs. Pisaster samples tend to stretch without breaking. These differences in mechanical behavior are attributed to different skeletal anatomies: Solaster has a sheet-like body wall containing flat, platelike ossicles, while Pisaster has a much thicker integument with many overlapping broad and elongated ossicles. There is no difference in decay behavior between buried and surface samples of Solaster, suggesting that a relatively anoxic environment does not in itself retard the breakdown of soft tissues. Although the mechanical behavior of asteroid integument after intervals of decay seems to correlate with species-specific skeletal organization, differences in preservability between species ultimately depend not only on inherent anatomical differences but on the interaction of anatomy and environment.
10.2307/3514659|Recent foraminifera inhabiting Jamaican north coast fringing reefs exhibit variation in distribution patterns that are related to bathymetry and reef morphology. Parallel traverses were run from the back reef (depth 1-4 m) across the reef crest, fore-reef terrace (5-14 m), escarpment (24 m), slope (30-55 m), and upper (75 m) deep fore-reef zones at Discovery Bay, Jamaica. Approximately 150 species belonging to 80 genera were identified. Diversity indices (S, H', J') are lowest on the fore-reef terrace, increase toward the back-reef and fore-reef escarpment and slope, and tend to be highest on the mid-lower slope and deep fore reef. Major operational taxonomic groups of foraminifera (suborders Textulariina, Miliolina, benthic and planktonic Rotaliina) exhibit distinct bathymetric trends, with the Miliolina occurring most abundantly in the back reef, and Textulariina and planktonic Rotaliina being most abundant below 30 m. Benthic rotaliines are prominent across the entire reef environment and may compose >60% of foraminiferal sediment assemblages. Among the largest and most common species, Amphistegina gibbosa (benthic Rotaliina) dominates fore-reef assemblages, whereas Archaias angulatus (Miliolina) is most abundant in back-reef environments. Individual fore-reef zones are poorly delineated in Q-mode cluster analysis of foraminiferal species abundances ( 5% of foraminiferal assemblages at any site) based on standard counting procedures (300 foraminifera from all size-fractions >0.125 mm). Reef zones are, however, clearly defined when the standard counting procedures are applied to individual size-fractions (1-2, 0.5-1.0, 0.25-0.5, and 0.125-0.25 mm) and species abundances determined from total counts of all four size-fractions combined ("sieve method"). Based on the sieve method, Q-mode cluster analysis of common ( 3% of foraminiferal assemblages at any site) species delineates back reef, fore-reef terrace, and fore-reef slope and upper (75 m) deep fore-reef zones. The alternative counting procedure appears to compensate for operator bias in specimen counts introduced by large and unusually abundant species (e.g., Amphistegina gibbosa) and by small but colorful forms (e.g., Discorbis rosea), which appear to mask the zonation when using standard counting procedures.
10.2307/3515083|Ichnofabrics typically represent the overprinting of multiple episodes of bioturbation (and sometimes also bioerosion), which can be quite difficult to sort out. Deep-sea ichnofabrics demonstrate this problem most strongly, since rates of sedimentation are low and rates of bioturbation often are high. Computer-aided analysis of ichnofabrics can be a useful aid in their description and interpretation. Digital enhancement, involving point-by-point modification and spatial convolution of computer-scanned images, can improve the visualization of key features of an ichnofabric. Specific aspects of the visual texture can be extracted from the image, or all aspects of the ichnofabric can be represented with more equal emphasis than in the original image. Histograms of image properties and image parameters are useful ways to represent complex aspects of a visual texture in a compact fashion. They can be employed to describe and compare large numbers of ichnofabric images, especially when individual burrow forms are difficult to resolve.
10.2307/3515500|Two types of ichnofossils from Pleistocene outcrop at Willapa Bay are described. Because both trace fossils are characterized by an inclined to horizontal tunnel, are unlined, have an exaggerated J-shaped morphology, rarely branch, and have an unconstricted apertural opening, they have been classified as Psilonichnus upsilon Type A and B. Psilonichnus upsilon Type A is generally 1 to 3 cm in diameter and is infilled with laminated sediment. In general, P. upsilon Type A is observed in ancient point-bar deposits. It has an extremely simple architecture that is almost identical to that produced by the crab Hemigrapsus oregonensis in modern tidal flats at Willapa Bay. Psilonichnus upsilon Type B normally exceeds 10 cm diameter and is infilled with laminated sediment. The passive infill commonly is deposited in couplets and may be delivered to the burrow network by tide-generated currents. Psilonichnus upsilon Type B is observed in intertidal flat deposits. The overall morphology of this trace fossil is most similar to burrows generated by large crustaceans such as crabs, stomatopods, and lobsters. The occurrence of these traces leads to four findings: (1) Psilonichnus upsilon has a more variable architecture than discussed in the literature. The size and angle of the tunnel are variable, and Psilonichnus may aggrade, forming Teichichnus-like structures. (2) In the modern bay, burrowing shrimp dominate subtidal, point-bar, and intertidal deposits. The Pleistocene record indicates that burrowing crabs sometimes occupied similar niches in the ancient bay. (3) Laminated, heterolithic burrow fills provide evidence of rhythmic sedimentation. These laminae represent tidal or episodic sedimentation and provide the only evidence of such processes in otherwise muddy deposits. (4) A large burrowing crab that might make P. upsilon Type B may not be present in the modern bay. However, such a trace maker was present when these Pleistocene deposits accumulated.
10.2307/3514585|To better understand the relationship between stable isotopic composition (<sup>13</sup>C/<sup>12</sup>C, <sup>18</sup>O/<sup>16</sup>O) and symbiosis, ontogeny, and environment, detailed isotopic profiles were constructed for specimens of the giant clam Tridacna maxima and an encrusting bivalve (Chama cf. savignyi) and coral (Montastrea spp.). Specimens were collected alive from depths of 1 m and 9 m within Rose Atoll (14<sup></sup> 31<sup></sup> S, 108<sup></sup> 10<sup></sup> W) in the southwest Pacific. Shells were sampled sequentially on the external shell layer along radial sections extending from the umbo to the outer shell margin, recording growth throughout the ontogeny of the organisms. Juvenile portions of the tridacnids accurately record seasonal water temperature fluctuations at the atoll. The amplitude of the <sup>18</sup>O profiles in tridacnids is greater in shallow specimens due to greater environmental variability. These shallower specimens have lower <sup>18</sup>O and <sup>13</sup>C values compared to the deeper channel mouth specimen, probably because of higher temperatures and the greater influence of <sup>13</sup>C-depleted carbon from oxidation of organic matter in sediments and from meteoric water. Ontogeny also influences the isotopic record of Tridacna. Once maturity is reached, growth is suppressed by high temperatures during summer. In addition, <sup>13</sup>C values decline. Knowing the time of collection, we can correlate <sup>18</sup>O maxima and minima of different tridacnids, and of a tridacnid and its encrusting Chama. However, the shapes of the peaks often differ, suggesting that correlation of the <sup>18</sup>O profiles of fossil tridacnids would be difficult. No correlation is possible between the <sup>13</sup>C records of live tridacnids. The similarity between the carbon isotopic composition of the symbiont-free bivalve Chama and the symbiont-bearing bivalve Tridacna it encrusts suggests that the presence of symbionts has no identifiable effect on the isotopic composition of Tridacna shells.
10.2307/3515030|The trophic structure of modern tropical benthic communities, especially reefs, is profoundly influenced by ambient nutrient levels and resultant predator characteristics. In oligotrophic regimes the presence of abundant specialist grazers promotes succession and yields climax-stage communities. Such communities produce the classic "framework" reef dominated by large, heavily calcified phototrophs and multiserial mixotrophs. These primary producers bear many anti-predator adaptations and have a marked preference for hard-substrates. Increasing nutrient levels favor a transition in the benthos from photo- and mixotrophs via benthic algae to soft-substrate communities of solitary or uniserial heterotrophs feeding on planktonic primary producers. Under such high nutrient conditions, small heterotrophs are perpetually superior competitors, thus maintaining assemblages which resemble pioneer stages. Here, the history of Phanerozoic reef-building is reassessed according to an analysis of trophic structure. Broad global patterns may be largely explained by changes in nutrient availability. Differing rates of oceanic circulation linked to climatic fluctuations and sea-level changes determined the range of trophic regimes available in shallow marine tropical habitats. Most Phanerozoic reefal buildups are revealed as soft-substrate dwelling heterotrophic communities and as such were not well-adapted to oligotrophic conditions: they were trophically quite unlike modern coral reefs and had markedly different environmental requirements. Prolonged phases when heavily calcified multiserial metazoans, although available, did not form framework reefs are postulated as times when few oligotrophic regimes were present in tropical shallow seas, i.e., most of the early Carboniferous, Permian and mid-late Cretaceous. Acquisition of mixotrophic nutrition allowed invasion of previously inaccessible oligotrophic environments, but current evidencesuggests that photosymbiosis was not acquired by reef-building organisms until the early to mid-Mesozoic onwards, with the possible exception of the mid-Palaeozoic. This may have been in response to increasing predation pressure and appears to have been facilitated by the creation of extensive oligotrophic regimes. The resilience of Tertiary scleractinian coral reefs to climatic vicissitudes might be largely explained by the rise of anti-fouling grazers, especially fish, during this time.
3515485|Utilizing new data from western Canada, the biogeography of Early Jurassic pectinoid bivalves along the eastern paleo-Pacific margin has been analyzed qualitatively and quantitatively. The studied areas range from the Andean Basin in the southern hemisphere to the Sverdrup Basin of Arctic Canada and include major allochthonous terranes of western Canada. While the Andean Basin exhibits a mixed bivalve fauna of austral, bipolar, and low latitude-East Pacific forms, pectinoid bivalves from the Canadian craton are characterized by a high percentage of boreal and bipolar taxa. The western Canadian allochthonous terranes Wrangellia and Stikinia show a mixed influence of low latitude-East Pacific and boreal/bipolar forms until Pliensbachian times. During the Toarcian/Early Aalenian, taxa typical of low latitudes disappeared. This pattern of a latitudinally differentiated Early Jurassic bivalve fauna, which apparently is climatically controlled, seriously undermines the hypothesis of a uniform West American bivalve province. Based on diversity gradients, similarity coefficients, cluster analyses, and distributional patterns of characteristic taxa, biogeographic data have been used to constrain the latitudinal positions of Wrangellia and Stikinia through time. During the three analyzed time intervals (Hettangian/Sinemurian, Pliensbachian, and Toarcian/Early Aalenian), both terranes were in the northern hemisphere and in the eastern paleo-Pacific. During all of the Early Jurassic, Wrangellia and Stikinia were close together and were moving northward. Paleolatitudes corresponding to those of the Western Canada Sedimentary Basin in Alberta were not reached before Toarcian times. By the end of the Early Jurassic, both terranes were in much the same latitudinal position relative to the craton as they are now. Consistent with biogeographic patterns are Early Jurassic latitudinal displacements of approximately 1300 km.
10.2307/3515644|The coral reef in Tutum Bay, Ambitle Island, Papua New Guinea, is exposed to the vigorous discharge of hydrothermal fluids (up to 98 /textdegreeC). This study investigates eight Porites lobata samples that were collected throughout the area of active venting at varying distances from vent sites. A sample from a "non-hydrothermal" coral (C-29), collected 10 km north of Tutum Bay, was analyzed for comparative purposes. Density banding is moderately well developed in these corals and subannual bands are common. For corals from Tutum Bay, <sup>13</sup>C ranges from -4.5 to -1.0%o and <sup>18</sup>O from -6.0 to -3.8%o, which are relatively depleted values for shallow water Porites. The comparison sample, C-29, has <sup>13</sup>C values ranging from -1.8 to -0.5%o, and <sup>18</sup>O values of -5.4 to -4.6%o. Concentrations of As, Co, Cr, Ga, Ge, Mo, Nb, Ni, Pb, Rb, Se, W, Y and Zr were always below their respective proton probe detection limits. Ba, Br, Cu, Fe, Mn, and Zn were detected in some samples. Sr was detected in all samples and concentrations ranged from 6970 to 8240 ppm. Strontium isotope ratios of selected samples (C-5, C-8 and C-29) are very close to seawater, but Tutum Bay corals (C-5 and C-8) have lower <sup>87</sup>Sr/<sup>86</sup>Sr values than the "non-hydrothermal" sample (C-29). The observed isotope patterns indicate that the hydrothermal input into Tutum Bay influences the physico-chemical conditions in the surrounding coral reef. Tutum Bay Porites lobata show distinctly different <sup>13</sup>C and <sup>87</sup>Sr/<sup>86</sup>Sr records when compared to the "non-hydrothermal" sample and other corals from Papua New Guinea and elsewhere. Direct and indirect synergistic effects, including temperature, isotopic and chemical composition of vent fluids and the influence of pCO<sub>2</sub> on the expression of photosynthetic and kinetic stable isotope fractionation factors, are the most likely explanation for the "hydrothermal" signal seen in these corals. The <sup>18</sup>O values are significantly correlated with the estimated amounts of hydrothermal exposure.
41317463|This study records the different types of trackways produced by the freshwater crayfish Orconectes in a controlled environment. Different trackway morphologies were created through the variation of media (=substrates) grain size, moisture level, and surface inclination in terrestrial and subaqueous settings. Sediment was sieved into clay and silt, very fine-, fine-, and medium-grained sand. A rectangular container filled with sediment was used to run trackway trials on flat and 10 inclined surfaces. All subaqueous tracks were made in a container on a flat surface. Moisture content for the terrestrial trials was determined by removing a sample of moistened sediment, weighing it before and after heating in an oven for 24 hours, and recording the values in percent water weight. Media moisture content had the greatest effect on trackway characteristics. Trackway preservation of individual appendage marks decreased as grain size and moisture content increased; dry clay and silt preserved the most detailed trackways. Intermediate moisture levels created a firm surface that decreased trackway preservation. Crayfish movement through soupy sediment produced continuous furrows to a depth of 1 cm. Trackways of crayfish moving up and down the inclined surface had shorter stride lengths than those made of a flat surface. Subaqueous trackways in fine-and very fine-grained sand preserved the clearest, most consistent trackways. Results from this study can be used to (1) identify trackways of ancient crayfish and (2) infer the relative amount of moisture present at the time the trackway was produced.
10.2307/3514760|Biogenic stratification, a distinctive type of biogenic bedding, dominates the stratigraphy of the inner tidal flats at Cholla Bay, northern Gulf of California. Biogenic stratification is produced by infaunal, deposit-feeding callianassid shrimp and polychaetes through vertical size sorting of the sediment during feeding and burrow excavation. This bedding is distinct from biogenic graded bedding in that the transition from the lower coarse-grained interval to the upper fine-grained interval is sharp, not graded. Biogenic stratification results from high rates of biogenic sediment reworking occurring with very low rates of net background sedimentation. Fine particles (<1-2 mm) undergo continuous vertical "conveyor belt" recycling, while coarse particles (>l-2 mm) are transported downward and concentrated at depth. Over much of the inner tidal flats, biogenic sediment reworking modifies sequences initially formed by storms or tidal-channel migration, replacing them with biogenic stratification. Biogenic stratification has important paleoecologic implications. Radiocarbon dates on tidal-flat shells indicate that shells and sediment undergo extensive vertical mixing, probably due to the combined effects of storms and biogenic reworking. Tracershell studies, and published literature on reworking rates, suggest that biogenic reworking "injects" shells to considerable depths (at rates far exceeding the net sedimentation rate), where they accumulate as subsurface condensed shell beds. In areas unaffected by biogenic reworking, sediment bypassing causes shells to remain on or near the surface for long periods of time, resulting in surficial faunal condensation.
3515681|Predation was examined using experimentally deployed shells along two transects representing shallow shelf (15 to 30 m), outer shelf (70 m) and bathyal (100 m to 267 m) habitats in the Bahamas. Lethal breakage on experimentally tethered shells was not restricted to the shallow - shelf ( 30 m), but could occur to outer shelf (70 m) and upper slope ( 88 m) depths. However, significantly more shells were preyed on at shallow-shelf depths (30 m) than at deeper depths ( 70 m) for both transects. Predation was not restricted to shelf sites ( 70 m), and predator-induced damage, such as peeled shells or last whorl remnants, could be encountered to a depth of 195 m. However, significantly more predation occurred at shelf rather than slope ( 88 m) depths for both transects. Although the experimental shells were exotic species, they were preyed upon at differing frequencies depending upon transect location and depth. It appears that morphology alone may not account for the differences in predation. Long-term deployment (six years) of shells enhanced the likelihood of predation, but short term deployment (one or two years) did not. Molluscivorous predators in the Caribbean are highly diverse and are not restricted to the shallow shelf, but occur in outer shelf to slope settings. Therefore, evolutionary-ecological conclusions based on predation with depth should not be tied to a single site, to a few depths, or to a single predator, as habitat heterogeneity and patchiness in predator and prey distributions may vary.
10.2307/3515199|Previous studies of spatial patterns among fossil assemblages have demonstrated the utility of gradient analysis as an investigative tool in paleobiology. However, because lateral samples in these studies have routinely been widely spaced (commonly tens of kilometers apart), there is little sense of the degree to which faunas vary locally, relative to variation observed at larger scales along hypothesized transects. To address this concern, the present study assesses preserved macrofaunal spatial variability in composition among samples collected at both outcrop (small) and basinal (large) scales, along two onshore-off-shore transects in the Middle Devonian Hamilton Group within the Appalachian Basin. The horizons sampled are stratigraphically discrete and temporally constrained. Quantitative analyses of faunal composition among samples demonstrate that: 1) Transitions in composition, associated with the onshore-offshore transect, are readily discernible at the basinal scale in both horizons. Along the Browns Creek bed transect, faunal associations vary from an onshore rugose coral-dominated assemblage in a wackestone to an offshore ambocoeliid assemblage in a calcareous mudstone. In the Hills Gulch bed, the faunas range from a rugose coral-meristellid assemblage in a crinoidal packstone/wackestone to a diverse brachiopod/infaunal bivalve assemblage in a calcareous mudstone. 2) In most instances, compositional variation from locality to locality exceeds the degree of variation recognized among samples at individual outcrops. However, there are exceptions, suggesting that it is important to collect multiple samples from each locality. 3) Possible non-random variability at the outcrop-scale is apparent among samples at two of the localities (one in each bed), suggesting that outcrop-scale variability is worth exploring in more detail in future analyses.
10.2307/3514863|The Holocene reef-building coral Favia pallida was sampled at 4.5 m depth increments (to 40 m) from two reefs on Enewetak Atoll to examine intraspecific environmental effects. An exposed outer reef was massive and wall-like, whereas a sheltered lagoonal reef grew as a slender pinnacle. Corallite diameter and growth rate, two attributes retrievable in fossil corals, were measured with data partitioned into shallow (<20 m), intermediate (20 to 29 m), and deep-water (>29 m) subsets. Highly significant differences between depth zone populations were found for both corallite diameters and growth rates in analyses of individual and combined reef data sets. Canonical variates analyses (CVA) separated populations from depth zones along single, highly significant, functions. Centroids and 95% confidence intervals, calculated from CVA scores of colonies in each population, are widely separated for the lagoon reef and combined data sets. Conversely, populations from shallow and intermediate depths on the outer reef display overlapping confidence bars indicative of more gradational morphologic changes. When CV's were used to classify specimens to groups, misassignments of intermediate depth specimens to shallow or deep-water populations underscored the gradational nature of the environment. Completely intergrading populations of Favia pallida collected from different depths can be morphologically separated into statistically distinct groupings. A stratigraphic succession of such morphotypes might be interpreted as abruptly appearing separate species if sampling were not as uniform, systematic, and detailed as was possible on modern reefs. Analyses of evolutionary patterns must carefully assess potential effects of clinal variation if past evolutionary patterns are to be interpreted correctly.
10.2307/3514996|Geomicrobiological, sedimentological, and electron microscopical studies of the carbonate bioherms and marl sediment within the mixolimnion of Fayetteville Green Lake reveal the crucial influence (epicellular biomineralization) of small (<latex>$<1\;\mu m$</latex>) coccoid cyanobacteria in the calcification process in Green Lake. Microscopic examination shows that the bioherms are actually modern thrombolitic microbialites with an open porous framework that contains a clotted non-laminar internal fabric. The microbialites are dominated by very numerous Synechococcus cells. The photosynthetic metabolism and cation binding ability of the cyanobacterium Synechococcus initiate local microenvironments of calcification around the cells. These small microenvironments of (calcite) calcification created by Synechococcus are responsible for: 1) the clotted microfabric of the growing microbialites and 2) "whiting events" that contribute significantly to marl deposition. The presence of Synechococcus (10<sup>5</sup> cells/ml) offers a resolution to the paradox concerning the paucity of phytoplankton in Green Lake, as it is a significant component of the net CO<sub>2</sub> fixation within Green Lake. Sedimentological and stratigraphic evidence indicate that groundwater enters Green Lake along the Syracuse Formation-Vernon Shale contact ( 10 m depth) and the contact between the green and red shale facies of the Vernon Shale (~18 m depth). Electron microscopy of the bacteria from the oxic-anoxic interface reveals two predominant species of anoxygenic phototrophic sulfur bacteria and a facultative anoxygenic filamentous cyanobacterium. Epicellular calcification of small coccoid cyanobacteria, like Synechococcus, have widespread implications for whiting events, marl deposition, and microbialite development since the Late Archean. Ancient analogues include both lacustrine and marine environments.
3515798|A remarkable encounter between two Cretaceous mosasaurs of the same species and a sick or recently dead nautiloid (Argonautilus catarinae Sundberg) is recorded. It is possible that the mosasaur was training its young to attack shelled cephalopods. This is the first recorded attack by two mosasaurs on a nautiloid in the eastern Pacific Ocean, although ammonites preyed upon by mosasaurs are known from the west coast of North America.
27670615|Stables isotopes and elemental composition of two well-preserved belemnite rostra (Hibolithes beyrichi and H. hastatus) from the Bathonian of central Poland were studied. Average temperatures calculated from the oxygen isotope ratios of Hibolithes beyrichi and H. hastatus are 10C and 6C, respectively. The absence of high-amplitude variations in high-resolution temperature profiles suggests these belemnites lived in deeper waters. This interpretation is compatible with a nektobenthic habitat of belemnopsid belemnites. Carbon isotope ratios of the rostra are assumed to be affected by vital fractionation with prominent fluctuations in the 13C records resulting from changes in the metabolic activity. Observed variations in Mg:Ca ratios of the rostra (from 5 mmolmol1 to 28 mmolmol1) are predominantly a primary signal. Temperature dependence of the Mg:Ca ratio is inferred for H. beyrichi on the basis of a correlation with 18O values; however, no such correlation is observed for H. hastatus. No significant correlation is observed between Sr:Ca ratios and 18O values in either taxon. Sulphur contents in the rostra vary from 630 ppm to 4400 ppm and are interpreted to be largely coprecipitated with belemnite calcite. Extreme compositions of sulphur are interpreted to result from the incorporation of diagenetic sulphur during early marine diagenesis, which is also characterized in these rostra by high Mg:Ca and Sr:Ca ratios and low 13C values. A total number of growth rings in the rostrum of H. beyrichi is calculated at around 600, thus, an expected life span of H. beyrichi is considered to be 1.5 years assuming daily precipitation of growth bands.
25835600|Cerro de los Batallones fossil sites are distinguished by large and diverse accumulations of Miocene vertebrate fauna. Little taphonomic research has been conducted on these assemblages so far, however. Results of Rare Earth Element (REE) analyses constrain diverse aspects of the taphonomic history undergone by the bones and constitute a starting point for subsequent taphonomic studies. Cerro de los Batallones localities were formed as cavities and seem to be composed of two types of assemblages that differ in their stratigraphic position, internal stratigraphic architecture, taxonomic composition and several taphonomic features. Despite these differences, chemically analyzed bones from the Batallones-1 upper and lower level assemblages exhibit undistinguishable REE patterns both within and between them. This, together with other taphonomic features, indicates that bones are autochthonous and that the depositional context remained constant during the sedimentation of the cavity filling. In addition, REE analyses are a key tool in unveiling the provenance of those fossil bones that could be regarded as allochthonous considering their peculiar macroscopic modifications. Negative Ce anomalies exhibited by isolated fossil bones lead to the proposal that the ponds that existed in the lower level of Batallones-1 were oxic. This inference clarifies the mode of accumulation of individuals in this assemblage: the carcasses did not accumulate massively over a brief period of time but rather they concentrated and, therefore, decayed over a relatively prolonged time span.
27670462|The purpose of this paper is to study the taphonomy of fossil flies (Diptera) preserved in the lacustrine deposits of the Florissant Fossil Beds (late Eocene), Colorado, United States. Three hundred and twenty-six fossil Diptera were examined, collected from a nearshore (n = 215) and an offshore (n = 111) site. The degree to which a specimen's preservation quality correlated with the ability to identify the specimen to various taxonomic levels and whether specimen size, orientation, or disarticulation had an effect on a preservation quality were evaluated. Also examined was the influence of depositional environment on these variables. Preservation quality was found to be important for identification to species level, but specimens of low preservation quality were still identifiable to the family and genus levels. Specimen size, orientation, and disarticulation were not correlated with the identifiability of a specimen. There was no significant difference in the orientation, disarticulation, or preservation quality of specimens found in the nearshore and offshore sites. There was a significant difference in the size of specimens preserved at each site, with larger specimens being found offshore. More specimens were found in the offshore site, but species richness did not differ between the two sites. Composition of taxa did differ depending on the site. These results demonstrate the importance of collecting all specimens, as even poor quality and disarticulated specimens are identifiable and useful in studies of insect ecology and evolution. In addition, depositional environments should be documented, as size sorting can bias the taxonomic composition of assemblages.
10.2307/3515576|Articulated and disarticulated shells of Anadara ovalis, Anomia simplex, Argopecten irradians, Astarte castanea, Crassostrea virginica, Divalinga quadrisulcata, Donax variabilis, Ensis directus, Geukensia demissa, Mercenaria mercenaria, Mya arenaria, Mytilus edulis, Petricola pholadiformis, Spisula solidissima, and Tagelus plebeius collected from New Jersey intertidal life and death assemblages were measured, and the frequency, type (scalloped, divoted, cleft, embayed), location (ventral, anterior, posterior), and shell size at inception of repair determined. Repair frequency ranges from zero (D. quadrisulcata) to 0.30 (M. arenaria). Size refuge from sublethal breakage was attained by S. solidissima and C. virginica. Posterior repairs necessitated by siphon-nipping characterize M. mercenaria and E. directus. Ventral repairs associate with species subjected to valve-wedging (S. solidissima, M. mercenaria) or with ventral egress of the foot (A. ovalis). Ventral repairs among deep infaunal clams (M. arenaria, E. directus, T. plebeius) may have been induced by sediment-loading stress during burrowing. Anterior repairs are characteristic of deep infaunal species with foot exposure (M. arenaria, T. plebeius). Repair frequencies were compared statistically with valve surface area, ventral margin thickness, burrowing rate, depth of sediment penetration, shell microstructure, shell ornament, and tissue exposure when valves adducted. Of these comparisons, the only significant correlation was between frequency of embayed repairs and valve surface area. The complex relationship between repair frequency and these variables is underscored by factor analysis. New quantitative approaches are employed that advocate phyletic rather than assemblage-level tests of escalation involving Tertiary congeners from the Atlantic Coastal Plain.
27670570|Enigmatic structures in the shape of inverted rounded cones are very common in a discrete horizon of the upper Stoner Limestone Member (Stanton Limestone Formation, Lansing Group, Upper Pennsylvanian) in southeastern Nebraska. These structures are 100300 mm in diameter, but rare, very large examples attain 1300 mm in diameter. On bedding planes, individual structures are conspicuously expressed as groups of concentric rings, some of which appear as low ridges (rugae). At least some of these rings correspond to concentric cone sheets (hollow cones) extending downward into the rock mass; these cone sheets are sometimes separated clearly from each other by discontinuous mud linings or drapes. The largest structures usually have smaller ones nested within them. The Stoner Limestone structures differ from described types of nonbiological and biological conelike structures, yet they must have formed in soft sediment prior to burial. Although they have a superficial similarity to such plug-shaped trace fossils as Conichnus and Conostichus, the purported dwelling traces left by cnidarians, several salient points with respect to shape, structure, and occurrence distinguish the Stoner Limestone structures from such traces. A trace-fossil hypothesis for the origin of the structures remains plausiblepossible feeding structuresalbeit problematic. Study of the Stoner Limestone concentric-conelike structures indicates that careful reexamination of trace fossils and sedimentary structures in Midconinent Pennsylvanian limestones is in order, as well as a reconsideration of how unique physical and diagenetic properties of carbonate sediments in general might affect the preservation of such features.
27670610|Trophic interactions between sharks and other marine vertebrates are represented by both indirect and direct evidence from the fossil record. Indirect evidence includes such traces as shark tooth marks and gouges on the bones of prey, such as fish, reptiles, whales, dolphins, and seals. Direct evidence is represented by the presence of shark teeth in definite association with prey species. In this paper, we report direct evidence for trophic interactions between a white shark (Carcharodon sp.) and a mysticete whale from the lower Pliocene (45 Ma) Pisco Formation of Peru: a partial mandible of an unidentified mysticete whale with a partial tooth of a white shark embedded within the cortical bone. Modern white sharks are known predators of many marine mammal species, and both active hunting and scavenging have been well documented. In this instance, we interpret this specimen to represent a scavenging event. This fossil is unusual because it represents a seldom-reported event that preserves direct evidence of trophic interactions.
10.2307/3515488|Assemblages of reef corals through the Middle Miocene to Late Pliocene Seroe Domi Formation in Curaao are described and statistically analyzed to document patterns of change in these associations during a Late Pliocene Caribbean-wide episode of accelerated faunal turnover. The data are based on large field collections made systematically at 73 localities within a sequence of bedded siliciclastics and coralgal limestones near Sint Michielsberg. Geologic age dates are newly determined for the sequence using high-resolution chronostratigraphic methods including paleomagnetics and strontium-isotope analyses, and the localities are subdivided into five locality-groups-Middle Miocene flatiron, Late Miocene salina-base, Mio-Pliocene salina-top, Early to Late Pliocene ridges, and Late Pliocene sea-cliff. Using a consistent set of morphologic characters, a total of 99 species are identified in the collections, and their occurrences are compared with first and last species occurrences reported elsewhere in the Caribbean. Frequencies of Stylophora, Acropora, and extant species are compared among the five locality-groups using non-parametric statistical tests. Occurrence matrices (99 species x 35 localities) are assembled for the collections using both relative abundance codes and presence-absence data, and average linkage cluster analysis and detrended correspondence analysis are performed to further examine the nature of the differences in the fauna among locality-groups. Interpretations of the results suggest that assemblages in the three older locality-groups (flatiron, salina-base, salinatop) are composed of >75% pre-turnover species, whereas assemblages in the youngest group (sea-cliff) are composed of 63% post-turnover species. The ridges localities (44% post-turnover species) represent a transitional step between the two extremes and contain assemblages in which dominant members of the old and new faunas co-occurred. Age estimates for the transition correspond generally with those reported for a similarly prolonged faunal transition in the Limon Group of Costa Rica. The flatiron localities differ distinctively in faunal composition from the other four locality-roups, which overlap in composition. Wide variation is observed within each locality-group. This variation is unrelated to stratigraphy and can be only partially attributed to environmental and taphonomic factors. Instead, it appears to be caused by the irregular, patchy local distributions often characteristic of reef-builders and, together with the overlap among locality-groups, suggests that faunal change was not coordinated and that species were independently distributed through the sequence.
10.2307/3515032|Multivariate analyses of the coarse-grained fraction (>2 mm) of sediments accumulating in deep water (419-434 m) along the western margin of the Little Bahama Bank reveal identifiable, small-scale compositional and taphonomic variations among local subhabitats (ridge crest, slope, foreslope, base of slope, pavements and scour pit) separated by meters to tens of meters. Bulk composition varies between planktic-(crest and slope) and lithic-dominated (pavements, scour pit) sediments. Local macrobenthic skeletal components also vary significantly among subhabitats, but are commonly dominated by echinoid and crinoid material; crinoid columnals contribute 9-52% of the coarse skeletal component of 17 sediment samples considered. Distributional and taphonomic analyses (abrasion, encrustation, breakage) indicate that columnals produced in dense ridge-crest assemblages of Chladocrinus decorus are transported down and accumulate along an adjacent slope. Sediments from hardgrounds supporting scattered living assemblages show columnals with the highest levels of abrasion, implying prolonged local reworking. Elevated contributions of Endoxocrinus parrae columnals to the few subhabitats where this species dominates the living assemblage suggest limited lateral transport in the absence of steep gradients. High levels of biological encrustation in areas of thin sediment cover suggest control by length of exposure of grains at the sediment-water interface. Lack of any correlation between frequency of broken columnals in samples and any observed sedimentary or environmental parameters suggests the action of predators or scavengers in this deep-water setting. Small-scale variations in sediment composition, benthic skeletal assemblages, and taphonomic characteristics are not unique to shallow-water settings, but can also be identified in deep-water carbonate bank-margin sediments. Such changes are largely a response to differences in benthic flow regime associated with small-scale topographic irregularities and may provide an important diagnostic tool for the interpretation of fossil assemblages.
10.2307/3515212|Oncoids, formed entirely of amorphous silica (opal-A), are common on the central to distal parts of Golden Fleece Terrace at the Orakeikorako geothermal site, North Island, New Zealand. The discoid oncoids, which grew in shallow (<1 cm) pools bounded by low rimstone dams, are up to 16 mm long, 14 mm wide, and 7 mm high. The core (nucleus) and cortex are formed of alternating porous and non-porous laminae. Porous laminae are composed of complex, but loosely interwoven, meshworks of silicified filamentous cyanobacteria that have relatively little silica precipitated between them. The non-porous laminae have a radial fabric in which filamentous microbes have their long axes perpendicular to the underlying growth surface. Pore spaces between the filaments are partly filled with amorphous silica cement. The morphology of the microbes in these oncoids is well preserved because silica precipitation occurred while the microbes were alive or very soon after death. Early silica precipitation allowed the differences between porous and non-porous laminae to be preserved. The alternation between porous and non-porous laminae may reflect times when microbial growth outpaced silica precipitation and vice versa. Such changes probably reflect variations in the discharge patterns and/or the temperature of the spring waters that flowed across the microterraces during oncoid growth. Periods of rapid silica precipitation may have been a factor that caused microbial filaments to adopt the radial attitude that characterizes the oncoids.
10.2307/3514662|Vertebrate fossils are commonly found in buried soils (paleosols) of the ancient landscapes they inhabited. Study of these soils (paleopedology) can provide information important to the interpretation of vertebrate fossils, as illustrated here with a review of biostratigraphic, taphonomic, paleoecological and evolutionary studies of Oligocene fossil soils and vertebrates in Badlands National Park, South Dakota. A significant advantage is gained from the fact that paleosols are, by definition, in place. Fossils within them are less likely to have been resorted from rocks of different age than fossils in deposits of lakes and streams. Soil formation punctuates the sedimentary accumulation of floodplain deposits, and thus provides a limit to effective biostratigraphic resolution of sequences of paleosols containing fossil vertebrates. Paleosols also are preservational environments for fossils. Bone is best preserved in calcareous paleosols of dry climates. Assemblages from less calcareous paleosols are subject to severe bias against preservation of small bones. Because of their higher surface-to-volume ratio, these are more prone to dissolution than large bones. Paleosols also provide records of ancient habitats of vertebrates, particularly their local vegetation and geomorphic setting. Such information is useful not only for paleoecological reconstructions, but as evidence of selection pressures effective in mammalian evolution. Temporal resolution of sequences of paleosols also can be a critical limitation on studies of the rate of evolution of mammalian fossils.
10.2307/3515462|Detailed analysis of modern and Pleistocene deposits at Willapa Bay, Washington concentrated on identifying ichnological and sedimentological characteristics of five estuarine subenvironments. These include: (1) intertidal flat deposits, which are typically thoroughly bioturbated by a somewhat diminutive suite of various vertical and horizontal shafts and burrows that are locally cross-cut by robust crustacean dwellings; (2) unburrowed to rarely burrowed tidal creek point-bar deposits, which are sporadically burrowed by minute Gyrolithes, Skolithos, Cylindrichnus, Planolites, Palaeophycus, and rare bivalve equilibrichnia; (3) fluvially- through tidally-influenced main point-bar deposits, which are sporadically bioturbated with vertical traces superimposed upon inclined heterolithic stratification; (4) well to thoroughly bioturbated bay deposits, burrowed by relatively robust forms of Ophiomorpha, Teichichnus, Skolithos and bivalve equilibrichnia; and (5) locally bioturbated channel-bar deposits, typically displaying robust bivalve equilibrichnia, rare Ophiomorpha, and deep-penetrating Skolithos. Traces from both the modern and ancient deposits display a marked reduction in size and diversity in the upper estuary. Ongoing research at Willapa Bay confirms the validity of the brackish-water model and provides data that potentially improve our understanding of these deposits. Our findings suggest that strong textural controls are overprinted by salinity stresses; commonly vertical deposit-feeding structures, made by infauna that are mining and / or stoping organic-rich laminae, are present; and there is a potential for the presence of large diameter crustacean burrows in brackish deposits. This research emphasizes ichnologic variability due to autocyclic changes and climatic variability, and urges caution when integrating ichnologic and sedimentologic data into a genetic stratigraphic model.
10.2307/3514506|Identification of an organic framework within Silurian bioherms of the Great Lakes area has not been widely accepted because of extensive dolomitization and diagenesis. Detailed analyses of small, organically constructed masses, or microbioherms, in the Waldron Shale of southern Indiana, however, yield evidence of encrusting organisms that are congeneric with biohermal organisms and were capable of producing rigid, organically bound reefal frameworks. Diagenesis of this framework-producing assemblage could have resulted in structures common within many large-scale Silurian buildups in the Great Lakes area.
10.2307/3515413|The documented presence of two large (~100-km diameter), possibly coeval impact craters of late Eocene age, requires modification of the impact-kill curve proposed by David M. Raup. Though the estimated meteorite size for each crater alone is large enough to have produced considerable global environmental stress, no horizons of mass mortality or pulsed extinction are known to be associated with either crater or their ejecta deposits. Thus, either there is no fixed relationship between extinction magnitude and crater diameter, or a meteorite that would produce a crater of >100-km diameter is required to raise extinction rates significantly above a ~5% background level. Both impacts took place ~1-2 m.y. before the "Terminal Eocene Event" (=early Oligocene pulsed extinction). Their collective long-term environmental effects, however, may have either delayed that extinction pulse or produced threshold conditions necessary for it to take place.
10.2307/3514984|Paleoenvironmental conditions of the early Paleocene eastern Tethys have been inferred based on carbonate sedimentation, biostratigraphy, and planktic foraminiferal assemblages of five sections from the Negev of Israel. In the earliest Paleocene at least three intervals of erosion or nondeposition of sediments have been identified (K/T, P0/P1a, P1a/P1b boundaries) in addition to a black pyrite- and organic-rich clay layer about 1.5 to 3.0 m above the K/T boundary (Subzone P1b/P1c, upper Chron 29N). These hiatuses appear to be widespread and correlate with global sea level fluctuations. Danian planktic foraminiferal assemblages of the eastern Tethys are dominated by alternating abundance maxima between triserial (Guembelitria) and biserial (Woodringina, Chiloguembelina) species. Biogeographic distribution of these taxa indicates that both groups thrived in shallow continental shelf regions. Moreover, abundance maxima of triserial taxa seem to correspond to <sup>13</sup>C depletion intervals, which indicate low surface productivity, whereas abundance maxima of biserial taxa correspond to enriched <sup>13</sup>C intervals which imply high surface productivity. These paleoceanographic changes may be related to sea level high- and lowstands during the earliest Paleocene. Stable isotope analyses of Danian species will be necessary to confirm these observations and to reconstruct oceanic conditions in both open marine and continental shelf regions of the early Paleocene.
10.2307/3515280|This study quantifies the taphonomic context of fossil dinosaur elements in the Late Cretaceous Hell Creek Formation of Montana and North Dakota, USA. A previously published data base consisting of 649 individuals (counted at the family level) was used to establish statistically fundamental associations between the vertebrate faunal elements and the fluvial architectural elements in which they were found. In the Hell Creek, preservation is not equally distributed among the various fluvial architectural elements. Flood-plain and channel deposits preserve the preponderance of the Hell Creek dinosaur fauna. Articulated fossils most commonly occur within floodplain and point-bar deposits. Floodplain and related deposits, however, preserve the highest dinosaur faunal diversities. The dinosaur sample inferred to be most representative of the original dinosaurian assemblage structure, therefore, is obtained from floodplain and genetically related deposits. These yield eight families of dinosaurs represented in the following proportions: Ceratopsidae, 61%; Hadrosauridae, 23%; Ornithomimidae, 5%; Tyrannosauridae, 4%; Hypsilophodontidae, 3%; Dromaeosauridae, 2%; Pachycephalosauridae, 1%; and Troodontidae, 1%. Among these groups, dromaeosaurs and troodontids are represented only by teeth, a circumstance attributed at least in part to thin-walled bones whose potential for preservation in an active fluvial system is jeopardized. Ornithomimids constitute 5% of the total assemblage, which makes them the third most common dinosaur in this study. Their relatively high abundance may suggest a herbivorous dietary preference.
3515874|The end-Permian mass extinction left an indelible mark on trace-fossil assemblages. This is evident during the lag phase of the biotic-recovery interval that occurred in the Early Triassic. Research on the Spathian Virgin Limestone Member of the Moenkopi Formation, western United States, has yielded a mixed carbonate-siliciclastic trace fossil assemblage. The presence of such traces as Thalassinoides, Laevicyclus, and Gyrochorte indicate that previously unreported metazoan behaviors had reappeared in equatorial regions by the close of the Early Triassic. Whereas diversity of trace-fossil assemblages increased from earliest to late Early Triassic time, persistent small size, low average ichnofabric index, low bedding-plane coverage, and reduced tiering point to prolonged stressful environmental conditions following the end-Permian mass extinction-conditions for which there is an abundance of global sedimentological evidence. This trace-fossil assemblage provides a record of soft-bodied organisms that might not otherwise be detected from the study of body fossils alone; it therefore acts as a constraint on the timing of the biotic recovery. This assemblage from the Virgin Limestone Member also serves as an indicator of environmental conditions that might not otherwise be gleaned, illustrating the utility of using trace fossils as environmental proxies during the lag phase of a biotic recovery. The presence of some of these traces (i.e., Thalassinoides) in lowermost Triassic strata of western Canada suggests that the recovery of trace-makers after the end-Permian mass extinction was asynchronous, and that northerly latitudes may have experienced a less-protracted biotic recovery than in equatorial regions.
10.2307/3515029|Tidal flat and lagoonal dolostones of the Neoproterozoic Draken Formation, Spitsbergen, exhibit excellent preservation of carbonate fabrics, including heavily calcified microfossils. The crust-forming cyanobacterium Polybessurus is preserved locally by carbonate precipitated on and within sheaths in mildly evaporitic upper intertidal to supratidal environments. In contrast, calcified filaments in columnar stromatolites reflect subtidal precipitation. Filament molds in dolomicrites independently document extremely early lithification. The presence of heavily calcified cyanobacteria in Draken and other Proterozoic carbonates constrains potential explanations for the widespread appearance of calcified microorganisms near the Proterozoic-Cambrian boundary. We propose that the rarity of Proterozoic examples principally reflects the abundance and wide distribution of carbonate crystals precipitated on the sea floor or in the water column. Cyanobacterial sheaths would have competed effectively as sites for carbonate nucleation and growth only where calcitic and/or aragonitic nuclei were absent. In this view, the Proterozoic-Cambrian expansion of calcified microfossils primarily reflects the emergence of skeletons as principal agents of carbonate deposition.
27670527|The Cambrian portion of the Potsdam Sandstone contains a suite of scyphomedusae impressions in fine-grained to medium-grained quartz arenites that outcrop on the periphery of the Adirondack Mountains, New York. The fossils are similar taphonomically and morphologically to coeval scyphomedusae from the Elk Mound Group of Wisconsin and were likely stranded on a sand flat. Soft-tissue preservation in such sandstones is rare, except in Ediacaran Konservat-Lagersttten. Although subtidal facies are abundant and continental facies are present in the Potsdam, soft-bodied fossils are found only in emergent coastal facies. These units are characterized by microbial structures including domal sand buildups, sand shadows, and breached ripples and by such horizontal trace fossils as Climactichnites and Protichnites. Domal sand buildups mantle some medusa carcasses and suggest that carcasses were exposed at the sediment-water or sediment-air interface for significant intervals of time prior to burial. It is unknown if microbial binding mediated preservation of these carcasses, but evidence for rapid flow regime changes in the section suggest stranded medusae were resistant to the upper-flow regime deposition that buried them. In many Laurentian Cambrian sandstones, microbial binding is common, and metazoan bioturbation is minimal in intertidal and emergent facies. The Potsdam Sandstone, thus, exemplifies how the Ediacara-style taphonomic window persisted in emergent Cambrian settings. This preservational regime may persist because bioturbating metazoans did not fully colonize tidal flats until the Middle Ordovician, which allowed soft-bodied animal tracks and carcasses to be preserved without scavenging or disturbance.
10.2307/3514839|The traumatic effects of cyclonic winds on forest vegetation are documented for a regional storm front that was accompanied by a localized tornado. Damage was sustained directly in the forest canopy in response to the severity of the winds, especially inflow from behind the vortex. Slight damage to the subcanopy and ground cover was sustained indirectly as the result of canopy litter fall. The orientation of downed and damaged canopy trees parallels that of the path of the tornado, but where the vortex came closest to touching down, trees were oriented perpendicularly to the tornado's route. In assessing an ancient thanatocoenosis (death assemblage) that may be the result of blow-downs, it is important to document the regional scatter of trees in order to determine whether or not the traumatic event represents merely violent windstorms or is the result of cyclonic winds. The recognition of such situations in the rock record would allow for a more detailed assessment of prevailing paleoclimate.
10.2307/3515453|Plaster-of-paris (POP) "jackets" are used by vertebrate paleontologists to protect fossil specimens from damage during transportation to the lab. Because large specimens can weigh over a ton, it is advantageous to reduce both the weight and cost of the jacket by adding fillers as in the plastics industry. Using equations published by 3M, an Excel spreadsheet has been designed that allows the instantaneous calculation of the cost and density of various fillers mixed with plaster of paris in varying ratios. Theoretical evaluations have been made for hollow glass microspheres, expanded perlite, diatomite, calcium carbonate, glass beads, glass fiber, Fiberglas (R-11), polyester resin, and epoxy resin. The key to the design of a lightweight jacket is the Cost/Density Ratio because it costs more to develop and produce a low-density material; however, impressive weight and cost reductions can be achieved nonetheless. Only R-11 Fiberglas, expanded perlite, and microspheres have Cost/Density Ratios greater than 1 and are, therefore, candidates for applied research on the design of lightweight jackets. Respective density and cost reductions are as follows for a POP/Filler Mix ratio of 5.5: Fiberglas, density reduction of 83% and cost reduction of 28%; perlite, density reduction of 82% and cost reduction of 31%; and hollow glass microspheres, density reduction of 58% and cost reduction of 26%. Recommendations include simple instructions for determining bulk densities and actual costs of formulations prepared under laboratory conditions.
10.2307/3514920|A stromatolitic limestone bed in the Late Proterozoic (Vendian) to Lower Cambrian Chapel Island Formation contains sheet cracks in which the microfossil Frutexites is entombed by marine calcite cement. The sheet cracks, which formed from expansion of the microbial mat and associated sediment, stayed in communication with seawater until they became filled with marine cement. Sheet cracks within stromatolites are a previously undescribed habitat for cryptobionts. In addition, Frutexites in the Chapel Island Formation, together with Late Proterozoic and Early Cambrian cryptobionts described elsewhere, suggest that cryptic habitats were exploited by microbes long before colonization by metazoans. Frutexites is variably preserved in these deposits. Some microfossils show laminae and a fibrous microstructure whereas others consist of cement-filled chambers or hematitic clots devoid of obvious microstructure. Frutexites are composed of an orange-colored calcite, a moderately ferroan calcite, hematite, and minor quartz. Petrographic evidence suggests that Frutexites was originally mineralized after death by Mg-calcite and not by an iron-bearing oxide or sulfide phase as suggested by previous authors. The fortuitous preservation by Mg-calcite and subsequent alteration to the diagenetic calcites, hematite, and quartz indicate that this form genus should be considered a diagenetic taxon similar to Epiphyton and Renalcis.
3515711|The meter-grid system, using spikes hammered into the quarry floor as grid nodes, is a common way to map paleontological and archaeological excavations. This method is invasive to the fossil-bearing horizon and can damage or even destroy buried specimens. This potential is greatest when the site is characterized by high bone concentrations, and/or specimen/matrix friability. A new portable mapping system based on a floating-grid was developed to circumvent these problems. This system also is well suited for excavations with uneven quarry floors. The floating-grid system extends over a quarry using retractable wires and mobile posts. It employs a mapping square that hangs from wires extended from a back wall or rebar posts.
10.2307/3515138|Silurian pentamerid communities in Wisconsin include the Middle Llandovery Virgiana Community, the Upper Llandovery to Lower Wenlock Pentamerus and Pentameroides Communities, and the Wenlock Apopentamerus and Kirkidium Communities. Llandovery to Lower Wenlock pentamerid communities are widely distributed across Wisconsin, while later Wenlock communities occur only in local areas with reefs. In addition to their dominant species of pentamerid brachiopods, these communities also include nineteen guilds of stromatoporoids, corals, bryozoans, other brachiopods, molluscs, trilobites and pelmatozoans. Large-scale evolutionary changes from Middle Llandovery to Wenlock time are documented from data on relative abundances of taxa, guild composition, and species diversity. Trends include increase in species diversity, increase in number of guilds, and increase in complexity of epifaunal tiering. These trends are part of the general ecologic diversification of Silurian marine benthos that followed the Late Ordovician extinction event.
10.2307/3514871|The biotic composition, growth and relationship to sea level history, and diagenetic attributes of a representative Holocene patch reef ("Elmer Reef") in the Mexico Rocks complex in northern Belize are described, and compared to those of Holocene patch reefs in southern Belize. Elmer Reef has accumulated in shallow (2.5 m) water over the last 420 yr, under static sea level conditions. Rate of vertical construction is 0.3-0.5 m/100 yr, comparable to that of patch reefs in southern Belize. A pronounced coral zonation exists across Elmer Reef, with Monastrea annularis dominating on its crest and Acropora cervicornis occurring on its windward and leeward flanks. The dominance of Montastrea on Elmer Reef is unlike that of patch reefs in southern Belize, in which this coral assumes only a subordinate role in reef growth relative to that of Acropora palmata. Elmer Reef locally is extensively biodegraded and marine, fibrous aragonite and some bladed high-magnesium calcite cements occur throughout the reef section, partially occluding corallites and interparticle pores in associated sands. Patch reefs in southern Belize have developed as catchup and keep-up reefs in a transgressive setting. In contrast, the dominant mode of growth of Elmer Reef, and perhaps other patch reefs in Mexico Rocks, appears to be one of lateral rather than vertical accretion. This style of growth occurs in a static sea level setting where there is only limited accommodation space because of the shallowness of the water, and such reefs are referred to as "expansion reefs".
10.2307/3515510|The Placerias Quarry of northeastern Arizona is one of the most diverse Triassic vertebrate fossil localities in the world. Several long-standing hypotheses are tested about depositional environment, paleoecology, and thanatocoenotic influences. Sedimentological features indicate a low-energy depositional environment. Bones are associated mostly with mudstones and a layer that contains numerous carbonate nodules. Thin-sections and field characteristics reflect that this nodule zone is pedogenic in origin. Taphonomic data show that the bones were not transported into the site by fluvial processes. The frequency of modification features is minimal and there is little evidence of postmortem alteration of the bones from prolonged exposure, trampling, or predation. Element survivorship curves were generated for the five most abundant taxa in the quarry. Curves for left and right elements tracked each other closely, but no pattern of preservation of cranial and postcranial elements was evident either within or among taxa. No clear signal was provided by either size or hydrodynamic potential of the elements. Because the same elements were not preserved preferentially among the best represented taxa, there is no systematic bias of preservation or removal by predators, though it cannot be eliminated, and taphonomic evidence provides no reason to suspect stream transport as a preservational bias. It is proposed as a general guide for assessing the relative completeness of preservation of an assemblage that the convexity of the element survivorship curve is proportional to the representation of the original death assemblage in the fossil assemblage. Thus, it provides increasing confidence in the assessment of the numbers of individuals actually represented. Sedimentologic and taphonomic data indicate that the Placerias Quarry was a site of bone accumulation in a soil with a high water table. The causes of death for the animals remain largely unknown, but recently proposed climatic models for the Chinle Formation are consistent with the hypothesis that seasonal droughts may have caused mortality events like this one.
27670323|Paleontological data frequently are extracted from genetically and stratigraphically complex shell beds. It is therefore important to recognize taphonomic biases that can lead to major errors in paleoecological interpretations (e.g., on ancient local biodiversity). The strong influence of transport-related shell-size sorting on diversity estimates from single samples was studied in a transect of the middle Miocene Grund Formation (Lower Austria), which contains allochthonous, psammitic event beds with channel structures, sharp erosional bases, and graded bedding. These event beds are interpreted as proximal tempestites, and contain densely packed, polytaxic molluscan assemblages. The faunal composition and taphonomic features of shells indicate that transport occurred from wave- or current-agitated nearshore habitats into a pelitic, inner-shelf environment. The different skeletal concentrations contain a highly diverse molluscan fauna with 130 species identified from more than 4200 individuals. Although the quantitatively most-important species are the same in standardized samples from five different shell beds, species richness differs significantly among the three samples from the base of the transect and the two samples from its top. Diversity depends on size-sorting and therefore reflects the transport history of the individual tempestites, not the species richness of the original paleocommunity. Poorly sorted samples (indicating relatively minor transport) approximate the diversity of single samples of that environment better than well-sorted samples (which indicate stronger transport). Diversities of shelly assemblages from parautochthonous and allochthonous assemblages cannot be compared directly. Even comparisons among tempestites are problematic because transport intensity governs diversity. The intensity of any taphonomic process, however, is difficult to predict without detailed investigations. The use of samples from taphonomically complex shell beds for diversity comparisons can bias results, especially on the fine-scale level of local diversity patterns. Studies at such fine scales of resolution should consider the taphonomic framework of assemblages, which is necessary to recognize the dominant taphonomic factors and their intensities.
10.2307/3515452|Stacked, steep-sided algal mounds are well exposed within the Upper Paleozoic Auernig Group and Lower Pseudoschwagerina Limestone of the Carnic Alps on the Italian-Austrian border. Individual mounds are up to 22 m thick and 60 m long. They are composed of a nearly monospecific association of the dasycladalean Anthracoporella, typically in growth position. Anthracoporella built a delicate framework as indicated by dense, often erect, and unbroken thalli and cavities between algal thalli that are filled by lime mud, synsedimentary cements, micritic crusts, and/or peloids. Microfacies contrasts between mound and intermound are striking. The mound core is composed of Anthracoporella boundstone. The intermound areas are composed of bioclastic wackestone-packstone with rare Anthracoporella. Mound development occurred below storm wave base in a quiet environment. Anthracoporella mounds differ from contemporaneous phylloid-algal mounds in their unique delicate skeletal framework and in the very low export of algal thalli to the surrounding sediments.
10.2307/3515450|The Eocene La Meseta Formation on Seymour Island, Antarctica, contains a diverse and abundant invertebrate and vertebrate fauna and, as such, is of key paleontological importance. Associated with this marine fauna is abundant angiosperm and conifer fossil wood, which commonly contains Teredolites borings. These borings are either infilled by clastic sediment, forming geopetal structures, or by calcite cements. The cements usually comprise two generations of radial-fibrous high-Mg calcite, post-dated by equant sparry calcite. The radial-fibrous cement is largely non-luminescent, non-ferroan calcite. However, within individual generations of radial-fibrous calcite there is a transition from non-ferroan non-luminescent to ferroan, orange-luminescent calcite at the margins of the fringing cement. These radial-fibrous cements have <sup>18</sup>O values of between -0.28 and <tex-math>$1.9\textperthousand$</tex-math> VPDB, <sup>13</sup>C values of 1.72 to <tex-math>$-42.59\textperthousand$</tex-math>, and Mg (ppm) values of between 18360 and 26735. On the basis of cement-fabric, stable isotope, and trace element data, these cements are interpreted as having precipitated from marine pore waters with total dissolved carbon derived from both methane oxidation and an inorganic marine carbon source. As HMC cements are diagenetically unstable, the preservation of these cements is remarkable, and must reflect very limited post sea-floor diagenesis. In addition, the cement oxygen isotope data are consistent with previous results for molluscs from the La Meseta Formation. These wood cements retain a primary environmental geochemical signature, with precipitation from cold marine pore waters at or near the sediment-water interface. A cool-to cool-temperate climate is indicated for the lower late early to early middle Eocene part of the La Meseta Formation. These data support the view that Antarctic climates deteriorated significantly by late early to early middle Eocene times.
10.2307/3514860|Information derived from Ordovician to Devonian phytodebris is discussed in terms of its utility in phylogenetic, biostratigraphic, paleoecologic and biogeographic studies. Several preparation techniques are described. Studies of latest Ordovician through Early Devonian land plant phytodebris have been important in addressing the origin of early land plants, in making taxonomic distinctions at the species through ordinal levels, and in documenting the phyletic radiation of early land plants. Biostratigraphic, biogeographic, and paleoecologic applications are more limited, although Ordovician-Silurian phytodebris may ultimately provide biostratigraphic control, especially of terrestrial sediments, and younger entities can indicate timing of major events or enhance floristic information for a given region. The potential to obtain information from these remains for systematic, biostratigraphic, biogeographic, and paleoecological applications is great.
10.2307/3515600|Environmental controls on the distribution of fossils most commonly are found by recognizing that certain distinctive fossil assemblages are associated with particular lithofacies. Lack of change in lithofacies commonly is used as indicating a lack of significant environmental effects on the stratigraphic distribution of fossils. The results presented here challenge that view. The Upper Ordovician Kope Formation of the Cincinnati, Ohio, area has long been considered a single unit, both lithostratigraphically and in terms of depositional environment. Gradient analysis of over 1000 fossil assemblages reveals subtle environmental control on the distribution of fossils, in the absence of obvious lithologic change. This gradient analysis is used to construct an ecological model of the Kope fauna, with values of preferred depth, depth tolerance, and peak abundance estimated for the most common fossils. This method, conducted within a single lithofacies, offers the potential for reconstructing sequence architecture because faunas can be more sensitive recorders of environment than lithofacies. In addition, the presence of subtle facies control as in the Kope raises the prospect that environmental controls on paleobiologic and biostratigraphic patterns may be more pervasive than generally acknowledged.
10.2307/3514690|Mazon Creek area fossil localities (Pennsylvanian: Westphalian D) in northeast Illinois provide an extraordinary preservational "window" for the study of Late Paleozoic terrestrial, fresh-water, and estuarine marine organisms. Marine animals were killed by episodic pulses of turbid fresh water associated with flooding from distributaries, and terrestrial organisms were introduced into coastal waters from upstream sources. Rapid burial entombed remains, commonly before significant decomposition had occurred, and very early diagenesis ensured fossil preservation as molds and composite impressions within sideritic concretions. The taphonomy of these deltaic, fossil-bearing beds is complex. Episodic engulfment of organisms is indicated by animal escape activity and by the presence of upended plant fragments. Numerous, distinctive, cyclic repetitions of siltstone-claystone laminae, each recording a single tidal (flood-ebb) event, are observed in areas yielding marine organisms; these indicate that rapid but extremely regular deposition was also important. Concretion formation was probably influenced, but not necessarily triggered, by decay processes. Siderite precipitation reflects three key conditions: the availability of iron, rapid burial of organic material, and a low to nonexistent supply of sea-water sulfate to centers of interstitial microbial activity. A regional (seaward) decrease in the quality of fossil preservation is observed away from the coastal depocenter, and an interval of sparsely fossiliferous facies (a taphonomic discontinuity) occurs between the delta complex and shell-rich, normal marine deposits. The preservational significance of early diagenetic siderite is discussed; we argue that paleoenvironmental interpretations of analogous or similar nearshore deposits lacking fossiliferous concretions must be made cautiously. The potential value of Mazon Creek-type facies in the study of other Pennsylvanian nearshore deposits, including many superficially "barren" shales, is stressed. The association of the fossil-bearing concretions with inferred estuarine-deltaic fades points to the need for future actualistic studies of comparable modern coastal environments.
40865406|The chemical composition of well-preserved naraoiids from the Chengjiang, Kaili, and Burgess Shale biotas is compared. Gut diverticulae in samples from all three biotas contain C, P, and Fe, indicating a primary composition of organic carbonaceous material, and the presence of apatite and pyrite as the result of authigenic mineralization in association with decay and early diagenetic processes. Gut traces from Burgess Shale specimens retain apatite and pyrite, as well as clay minerals, reflecting a history involving greenschist-grade metamorphism. Kaili specimens have been subjected to lower-grade metamorphism and, or thermal alteration, but alteration of pyrite pseudomorphs in the gut traces to limonite indicates the effect of weathering. Loss of sulfur and calcium, oxidation of pyrite, and the light color of the Chengjiang samples are the result of a greater degree of weathering than in specimens from the other two localities. As demonstrated here, Kaili samples serve as an important baseline for interpreting specimens from the Burgess Shale (high-grade metamorphism) and the Chengjiang (intense chemical weathering) deposits. Our study shows for the first time that the conservation of organic carbon is the common primary mode of soft-part preservation in naraoiid arthropods from these three signature Burgess Shale-type localities. Differences among these major deposits are a product of later diagenesis and weathering of the authigenic mineralization associated with the preservation of labile structures. Among the major constituents formed during diagenesiscarbonaceous material, calcium phosphate (e.g., apatite), and iron sulfide (e.g., pyrite)the minerals are more susceptible to chemical weathering via hydrolysis.
10.2307/3514576|A diverse fossil vertebrate fauna has been discovered at a new locality in the Fort Union Formation in an area that has no previous record of vertebrates from Paleocene rocks. The fossil-bearing unit is at approximately the same stratigraphic horizon as the lowest coal bed in the Tongue River Member of the Fort Union Formation; thus, it dates (at least biostratigraphically) the initiation of major Paleocene coal accumulation in the northwestern part of the Powder River Basin. The fossils occur about 50 m above the base of the Tongue River Member in a 0.6 m thick, yellowish-gray, sandy conglomerate that is interpreted to be a fluvial channel-lag deposit. The fauna includes fossils of fish, turtles, crocodiles, and mammals. Mammals thus far recovered include 21 species distributed between 17 families. Genera known from rocks of both the Torrejonian and the Tiffanian land mammal ages (middle and late Paleocene) are present, but the evolutionary stage of Aphronorus and the mutual presence of Nannodectes and a primitive species of Ectocion suggest a Tiffanian (late Paleocene) age for the deposit.
27670434|Carbon isotope compositions of sedimentary organic matter (average 24.1) from an Albian marine siliciclastic succession in Hokkaido, Japan, exhibit a distinct anomaly by +1.2 with a trifurcate shape across the Albian-Cenomanian boundary and two relatively small shifts (<+1) in the middle and upper Albian, respectively. The organic matter consist predominantly of woody materials with an insignificant degree of thermal alteration, judged from the visual and elemental characteristics of kerogen; the stratigraphic 13Corg fluctuations are independent of lithological or total organic carbon variations. Thus, the Hokkaido 13Corg profile is interpreted as representing the temporal 13C changes in whole C3 plant vegetation in the provenance of East Asia during Albian time. The patterns and amplitudes in 13Cwood values and their relationship with planktonic foraminiferal zones are conformable with coeval Tethyan 13C records of pelagic carbonates. This observation reinforces the view that 13C compositions of marine and terrestrial carbon reservoirs fluctuated simultaneously by the same amplitude within the ocean-atmosphere-biosphere system regardless of changes in such paleoenvironmental parameters as pCO2. From a chemostratigraphic viewpoint, time-equivalent levels of Oceanic Anoxic Events and stage boundaries are constrained for the Hokkaido sections, allowing for the proposal of a detailed chronostratigraphic framework for future advanced paleoceanographic research in the mid-Cretaceous north-western Pacific region.
3515877|Isolated logs preserved in the lterer Flusande of the Weielster basin, Germany, are examined relative to their subjacent bedform. Paleocurrent analyses conducted on both the log orientation and its underlying bedform are used to determine whether or not any relationship exists between these two structures. Two patterns emerge from this investigation. When the data set is taken collectively, the mean vector of the log orientation is in a subperpendicular relationship to the mean vector of their bedforms. This coarse woody detritus is not oriented preferentially parallel to paleocurrent direction as has been previously hypothesized. In addition, when individual log orientations are compared with their underlying bedforms, logs may be oriented parallel, subperpendicular, or perpendicular to the bedform. There is no statistical preference for any particular orientation in the data set. Comparison is made with an actualistic data set from the Lassa Distributary of the Rajang River delta where a similar trend is documented, and with previously published experimental and field data. This comparison indicates that there is no statistical preferred orientation of wood clasts in fluvial systems. Hence, these results caution against the use of woody phytoclasts as independent indicators of paleocurrent trends in fluvial systems.
10.2307/3514794|A model of the predicted palynologic response to sea-level changes was formulated and tested in 3 different depositional areas. Both the subsurface Mancos Shale-Tocito Sandstone interval of New Mexico and the St. Stephens Quarry section in Alabama show a correspondence between systems tracts and the composition of the palynoflora. These intervals are not directly associated with deltaic sedimentation. The third area is a subsurface Wilcox section studied in southwestern Louisiana that lay on the distal edge of a major deltaic system. Both the electric log stacking patterns and palynofloral compositions show a correspondence to the systems tracts. The Lowstand Systems Tract (LST) in the Bisti Oilfield and Wilcox sections is characterized by terrigenous domination of the palynoflora. The Wilcox section is characterized by a progradational electric log stacking pattern and above average numbers of recycled palynomorphs in some samples. The Transgressive Systems Tract (TST) was investigated in the Bisti Oilfield and St. Stephens Quarry sections. The results at Bisti (Mancos Shale above the Tocito Sandstone) and St. Stephens (Pachuta Marl, Shubuta Clay and Mint Springs Marl) show that the TST has a marine dominated palynoflora. Sedimentation directly associated with the process of transgression involves the reworking of previous deposits and is represented by the mudstone interbeds within the Tocito Sandstone and perhaps some of the Wilcox TST samples. These samples show a terrigenous dominated, low diversity palynoflora. In the Wilcox section, TST samples are characterized by progradational to retrogradational electric log stacking patterns, terrigenous dominance and low numbers of recycled palynomorphs. The Highstand Systems Tract (HST) was sampled in the Wilcox section and also at St. Stephens Quarry as part of a condensed interval. The HST in the Wilcox section was characterized by progradational to retrogradational electric log stacking patterns with progradational intervals being terrigenous dominated, with varying amounts of recycled palynomorphs. Intervals with retrogradational electric log stacking patterns are characterized by marine dominance to strong marine influence, high marine diversity and low to moderate numbers of recycled palynomorphs. The HST at St. Stephens Quarry was marine dominated. In this area the major deltaic progradation occurred a considerable distance to the west. The results of this investigation are in general agreement with the results of earlier organic petrologic studies on some of the same sample material.
10.2307/3514479|A well-known stratigraphic section and a proposed IGCP stratotype for the Eocene-Oligocene boundary is exposed at St. Stephens Quarry, southwestern Alabama. On the evidence of planktonic foraminifera and nannofossils, the boundary is generally placed at or near the top of the Yazoo Clay (Shubuta Member). In the magnetic polarity time scale, the Eocene-Oligocene boundary is within a reversed polarity interval (Chron 13R) with normal polarity intervals 500,000-750,000 years below and above the boundary. This sequence, however, is not observed at St. Stephens Quarry, where paleomagnetic samples for the entire uppermost Eocene-lowermost Oligocene record normal polarity or are magnetically unstable. The samples contain glauconite and abundant authigenic pyrite, and in places both minerals show considerable late-stage alteration to hematite. The authigenic hematite is present throughout the section and dominates the magnetization, obscuring primary magnetization polarity boundaries and preventing correlation with the standard polarity time scale. Since magnetic polarity data may provide globally synchronous correlations, we recommend that the magnetic characteristics be evaluated in the recognition of stratotype sections. Therefore, because of remagnetization, the St. Stephens Quarry section is not an ideal stratotype for the Eocene-Oligocene boundary.
3515721|Depositional cycles in fluvial successions are described here as chronostratigraphic packages of strata founded on a laterally extensive, scour-based, amalgamated channel-sand body, overlain by mudrocks, isolated channel fills, avulsion and splay complexes, and paleosols. Ten packages are described from the lower Horseshoe Canyon Formation (Campanian-Maastrichtian), one of a succession of clastic wedges filling the Alberta foreland basin in south-central Alberta. The structure of these packages is consistent with the fall-rise-fall cycle of base-level described in other studies, but the package-bounding scours and internal surfaces are discontinuous and difficult to trace in the mudrock-dominated strata. Terrestrial vertebrate fossils are preserved in relatively fossiliferous, facies-independent horizons 1 to 3 m thick that statistically correlate with the stratigraphic position of package scours and surfaces. Fossiliferous horizons formed as a result of attritional accumulation under an optimum, relatively low, regional deposition rate. Not only do these horizons aid in locating package surfaces, but they also provide insight to the interaction of the package-scale, base-level oscillation with the larger-scale fluctuation in accommodation associated with the formation of the clastic wedge. As such, fossiliferous horizons in the Horseshoe Canyon Formation make better boundary markers than do paleosols, splays, coal seams, or even the surfaces associated with package structure. Therefore, the vertebrate fossil record may supply a means of stratigraphically evaluating sections in other locations in which typical sedimentological and architectural cues for surfaces are absent.
3515645|To what extent does ichnological diversity (the number of distinctive trace fossil morphologies) serve as a proxy for zoological diversity (species richness of trackmakers in the living fauna) in footprint assemblages made by terrestrial lower vertebrates? This question was investigated in a study of body form and trackway features of monitor lizards (varanids) from the Western Australian desert. Body-shape parameters deemed likely to affect trackway pattern of seven varanid species were measured. These lizards differ in average adult size, but there is considerable size overlap between adults of small-bodied species and juveniles of large-bodied species. Although subtle species differences in body form were detected, these were largely swamped by intraspecific variability. Furthermore, the most distinctive features in which trails of monitor species differ reflect interspecific differences in foraging behavior rather than anatomical differences, and are features that would be difficult or impossible to recognize without actually capturing the trackmaker. These observations provide empirical support for the widely held belief that trace fossil diversity commonly under-represents zoological diversity. The degree to which this is so is likely to be influenced by trackmaker body size and metabolic physiology.
40606523|The origin of oxidized iron in Precambrian iron formations has been debated for decades. Direct paleontological evidence for a microbial role in iron oxidation has been sought in the biosignatures in these structures. This study documents how several biosignatures of phototrophic ironoxidizing communities form in modern hydrothermal iron deposits. The microbes, primary minerals, microfossils, and stromatolitic biofabrics from Chocolate Pots hot springs in Yellowstone National Park were characterized across a range of spatial scales via various types of microscopy, X-ray diffraction, energy dispersive spectroscopy, and total organic carbon elemental analyses. Electron microscopic examination of the cyanobacterial mats reveals the formation of distinct dendritic-like biofabrics. Early-stage iron-permineralized phototrophic microfossils display taxonomic features that allow identification to the genus level. Selected-area electron diffraction analysis indicates that cells were permineralized by iron oxides (2-line ferrihydrite). Although permineralization by silica is considered to result in fossils with the highest cellular fidelity, this investigation suggests that iron permineralization may also produce exceptionally well-preserved microfossils. Characterization of biosignatures in this modern high-iron thermal spring provides a unique opportunity to establish a link between (1) our previous physiological measurements of iron oxidation by a phototrophic community; (2) production of biosignatures by the community; and (3) survival of these biosignatures during the earliest stages of diagenesis in the iron oxides underneath the microbial mats. This fossil evidence linking taxonomy, physiology, and biosignatures may be used to infer the paleobiology and paleoecology of similar fossil benthic microbial communities and may provide a means to assess the microbial contribution to ancient iron deposits.
27670517|Large-diameter (210 cm) crustacean burrows preserved in the latest Cretaceous and early Paleocene estuarine barforms of southern Wyoming's Ferris Formation exhibit simple, nonbranching architecture, elliptical cross sections, J- and U-shaped shaft morphologies, and walking-leg impressions along the burrow walls. The burrows are classified as Psilonichnus isp. based on their morphology and environmental occurrence. In the Ferris Formation, Psilonichnus is found within multistory channel deposits and is associated with lithofacies that indicate strong tidal influence. Thalassinoides is more abundant in single-story channels with shallower flow depths, and Camborygma is found in alluvial deposits of the overlying Paleocene Hanna Formation. The presence of Psilonichnus in estuarine barforms of the Ferris Formation supports reconstructions of the Western Interior Sea showing a much wider distribution during the CretaceousPaleogene transition than has normally been accepted.
40606516|A total of 289 belemnite guards was analyzed from the Boreal Barremian (northeastern England and northwestern Germany) for their trace elements and isotopie composition. The oxygen-isotope signature shows similar paleotemperature variations for all seven sections investigated. Three different phases of climatic evolution can be recognized. An earliest Barremian cool phase (Praeoxyteuthis pugio belemnite Zone) is followed by a distinctive warming event in the late early Barremian (Aulacoteuthis spp. belemnite Zone). This Aulacoteuthis warm pulse has a relatively short-term peak (~500 kyr), which accompanies widespread anoxic bottom-water conditions and records the highest temperature throughout the Valanginian-Barremian in the Boreal Realm. The late Barremian (Oxyteuthis brunsvicensis, O. germanica, and O. depressa belemnite Zones) is characterized by relatively positive O values reflecting a cooling phase. This paleotemperature interpretation of the oxygen data is supported by the Mg/Ca trends. The carbon isotope curve of the Barremian shows an increase from 1 in the early to 3 in the late Barremian. This trend may reflect the global signal of the carbon budget of Barremian oceans and be related to the widespread deposition of TOC-rich sediments in the southern part of the Boreal Realm and the progradation of the Urgonian carbonate platforms in the Tethys. There is evidence, however, that paleobiological factors may have played a much more important role in the incorporation of stable carbon isotopes than hitherto thought. In a monospeciflc belemnite population collected from one 30-cm-thick interval, the C signal shows a variation of 1.5. Ontogenetic changes in the metabolic activity linked to temperature or food changes may explain changes in the fractionation rate, resulting in an ontogenetically controlled biofractionation.
40865403|Taung, South Africa yielded the first Pliocene Hominini fossil, Australopithecus africanus, recovered from a lime quarry in 1924. To identify whether the habitat of the site differed from present-day conditions, dietary preferences of fossil papionins from Taung, including Parapapio antiquus (n = 8), Papio izodi (n = 12), and indeterminate specimens (n = 10) were examined under low magnification to discern patterns of dental microwear. The comparative fossil sample from Sterkfontein Member 4 includes Parapapio broomi (n = 10) and Parapapio jonesi (n = 5). Extant Papio ursinus (n = 20), a savannadwelling baboon from South Africa, provides a modern analogue. Six dental use-wear scars on the paracene of the second molar (M) were recorded and the data analyzed using ANO VA with Tukey's test to detect whether group differences were present for each feature; linear regression identified significant covariation of microwear features. Principal components analysis and discriminant function analysis were utilized to identify species-specific dietary signals. Extant Papio ursinus is separated from the extinct taxa solely by a relatively greater number of fine scratches with respect to the other microwear features. Papio izodi overlaps primarily with extant Papio and secondarily with Parapapio, which forms a more discrete grouping that includes Parapapio antiquus from Taung. A wetter, more closed environment is suggested for Taung and Sterkfontein Member 4 compared to the habitat of present-day central South Africa.
3515793|A mathematical/computer model was constructed to explore the effects of changes in rates of taphonomic loss, sediment reworking, and burial on time-averaging in fossil deposits. Using a Monte Carlo algorithm, the main controlling variables were thickness of the taphonomically active zone (TAZ; the interval where shells are likely to be destroyed), depth of final burial (DFB; below which shells can no longer be reworked into the TAZ), and burial rate. Output included both the decay trajectory of shells above the DFB as well as the frequency distribution of post-mortem shell ages at final burial (entry into the fossil record). Output was justified ergodically as equivalent to time-averaging in a deposit. The model helps to illuminate several important concepts for time-averaging. For example, it clarifies that DFB and TAZ need not be coincident. In fact, the mechanism of shell sequestering (allowing shells to remain in a safe zone between the TAZ and DFB) as a means of shell survival for 100s or 1000s of years after death requires that DFB be below TAZ. In addition, the model demonstrates the use of a shell's expected residence times above TAZ and DFB as a means of comparing time-averaging from different settings. Lastly, the model focuses attention on the potential variability in time-averaging among fossil deposits created under identical conditions due to stochastic variation. These results indicate the useful role of models in developing a process-based understanding of the nature and controls of time-averaging in fossil accumulations.
10.2307/3515614|Shell boring is one of the few quantifiable, well-preserved biotic interactions in the fossil record. While some workers have used boring intensity as a proxy for predation pressure in both Recent and fossil assemblages, others have warned that taphonomic and other effects can alter the boring intensity and lead to paleoecological misinterpretation. When the biocoenosis is known, however, taphonomic effects can be "undone" a posteriori. Because the valve ratio of any bivalved organism must be 1:1 in the biocoenosis, strengths of between-valve taphonomic biases can be calculated directly for any disarticulated assemblage of bivalved fossils. By back-calculating the biocoenotic boring intensities, improved estimates of boring stereotypy may be obtained. These "restored" boring intensities can provide more accurate paleoecological interpretations of boring habit while remaining numerically conservative. Taphonomic analysis of a bored Ordovician brachiopod assemblage shows that (1) the assemblage had experienced negligible differential transport; and (2) convex (pedicle) valves have been preferentially crushed in place. Comparing the taphonomy of the assemblage to a set of laboratory taphonomic regimes reveals that valve-valve contact may be of great consequence in skeletal taphonomy. In particular, valve-valve contacts appear to promote (1) preferential destruction of convex valves; and (2) subequal destruction of bored vs. unbored valves. Taking into account these taphonomic effects, numerous hypotheses of boring habit-including mixed-motive boring-have been tested using a probabilistic model. The model herein presented indicates a likely contribution of 10-15% predatory boring in the assemblage. The usefulness of probabilistic models for providing simultaneous, realistic tests of multiple hypotheses is emphasized.
27670561|Biogeochemical (13C, 15N, and 18O values) and ecomorphological analyses of the early Pleistocene fauna of Venta Micena (Orce, Guadix-Baza basin, SE Spain) provide interesting clues on the physiology, dietary regimes, habitat preferences, and ecological interactions of large mammals. Such inferences are useful in deciphering aspects of paleocommunity structure and predator-prey relationships. Specifically, the hypsodonty index combined with 13C values allows classifying the ungulates among grazers from open habitat (Equus altidens, Bison sp., Praeovibos sp., Hemitragus albus, Hippopotamus antiquus, and Mammuthus meridionalis), mixed feeders (Soergelia minor and Pseudodama sp.), and browsers from canopy areas (Stephanorhinus sp. and Praemegaceros cf. verticornis). Given that 13C values indicate that all these herbivores fed exclusively on C3 plants, significant differences in isotopic values between perissodactyls (monogastric, hindgut fermenters) and ruminants (foregut fermenters) reflect differences in digestive efficiency. Values of 18O indicate the dietary water source of ungulates, revealing that Pseudodama sp., Hemitragus albus, and Soergelia minor obtained a significant fraction of their metabolic water from vegetation. Carnivores show higher 15N values than herbivores, which records the isotopic enrichment expected with an increase in trophic level. Hippopotamus antiquus and Praeovibos sp. have unexpectedly high 15N values, suggesting that they predominantly consumed aquatic plants and lichens, respectively. Inferences on predator-prey relationships, derived from the use of linear mixing models, indicate resource partitioning among sympatric predators; saber-tooth Megantereon whitei and jaguar Panthera cf. gombaszoegensis were ambushers in closed habitat while saber-tooth Homotherium latidens and wild dog Lycaon lycaonoides were coursing predators in open plains. The giant hyena Pachycrocuta brevirostris scavenged the prey of these hypercarnivores.
10.2307/3515211|The hypothesis of escalation posits that biologic hazards such as predation have increased during the Phanerozoic. Previously, a survey of drilling frequencies in the Cretaceous and Paleogene of the North American Coastal Plain suggested an episodic pattern of escalation within the naticid gastropod predator-prey system. This study examines escalation from the perspective of naticid prey selectivity. If escalation occurred within the system, less selectivity of prey may be apparent in the Paleogene compared to younger assemblages. We test this hypothesis for four Eocene Coastal Plain assemblages. Contrary to predictions, intraspecific prey size selectivity was well developed for nine of eleven bivalve prey species. Drillhole size (indicating predator size) correlated significantly with prey size, especially for successful drillholes. Few incomplete or nonfunctional drillholes occurred, except within corbulid species. Interspecific prey selectivity was less developed than for Neogene or Recent assemblages. Naticid prey preferences predicted by cost-benefit analysis were consistent with actual drilling frequencies only for the Bashi Marl Member of the Hatchetigbee Formation (Alabama). In the Piney Point Formation of Virginia, all prey items were drilled at equivalent frequencies, despite their different cost-benefit rankings. Upper Lisbon (Alabama) and Moodys Branch (Mississippi and Louisiana) assemblages showed limited agreement with preferences predicted by cost-benefit analysis. Prey selectivity thus appears less developed in the Paleogene compared to the Neogene and Recent, in accordance with the hypothesis of escalation.
10.2307/3514887|In even the most sophisticated taphonomic studies, processes involved in the formation of fossil assemblages can rarely be directly observed, and are inferred from measurements and censuses of skeletal material. Here, we present a numerical model designed to permit direct evaluation, either alone or in combination, of various postmortem effects on simulated fossil assemblages. The primary objective of the basic model is to provide a realistic framework for species distributions, through several generations of accumulation, on the sea floor. The model establishes two "communities," each containing 25 species and 10,000 individuals per generation, along an "environmental" gradient. Species are assigned randomly to one of five ecologic tiers, and relative abundances are determined using MacArthur's random niche-boundary distribution. With respect to the gradient, geographic centers of abundance and ranges of distribution are also preassigned; they vary from species to species, within limits, to reflect the intergradational nature of the communities. Using these "guidelines," individuals belonging to each species are placed randomly or contagiously on a two-dimensional, 50 by 800 coordinate grid; the model is run through 50 generations to develop a time-averaged accumulation that can be sampled for numerical analyses. The power of the basic model is that it can be manipulated to simulate a variety of taphonomic processes, and the results can be compared directly to patterns that would have resulted without the taphonomic overprints. In this initial use, we analyze the effects of limited amounts of post-mortem transport on faunal distributional patterns. Comparisons of transported and untransported accumulations permit the testing of a procedure for detecting the amount of post-mortem skeletal transport along environmental gradients. To demonstrate its utility, this procedure is applied to a data set of subfossil molluscan remains from St. Croix, U.S. Virgin Islands.
10.2307/3515530|Infaunal bivalve shells were extracted from sediment cores taken in shallow seas off Phuket, South Thailand, and were scored for four types of taphonomic degradation to assess the effect that different types of bioturbation have on the preservation of such bioclasts. This gravel-sized fraction of off-reef biogenic (bivalve) sediments showed variation in the extent of degradation, depending on whether it was found in an area bioturbated by callianassid or alpheid shrimps. Cores taken in the alpheid area have a higher proportion of grains with poorly defined shape and ornamentation, a loss of surface luster and high levels of microbioerosion. In contrast, those from the callianassid area have a higher proportion of shiny, sharply defined fragments and a lower level of microbioerosion than those from the alpheid area. It is concluded that the different nature of bioturbation in the two areas accounts for the difference in preservation. In working the sediment, callianassids bury the gravel fraction, while alpheids repeatedly bring it to the sediment surface, thus exposing it to higher levels of physical and microbiological erosion. The shrimps' activities result in a difference in preservation potential of fine and coarse sediments, and this taphonomic bias will affect taphofacies interpretation. Rapid burial of gravel by callianassids also has implications for time-averaging, as a shell fragments condition is more indicative of its residence time at the surfacewater interface than its age.
10.2307/3514902|Recurrent sediment fabric and trace fossil associations in the Norwegian offshore Jurassic sequences have been interpreted by the ichnofabric concept. In the Sognefjord Formation (Oxfordian-Kimmeridgian) of the Troll Field five basic ichnofabrics were recognized and named after the dominant ichnogenus present, respectively: Helminthoida, Anconichnus, Palaeophycus, Ophiomorpha and Skolithos. These ichnofabrics developed in sediments deposited in marine environments ranging from quiescent offshore to high energy, shallow water nearshore situations. When sequence patterns of ichnofabrics were mapped within five chronostratigraphic reservoir zones of the Troll Field it was possible to recognize both how the frequency of a given ichnofabric may change in time in a restricted area or may change in its areal distribution in a restricted time interval. Such maps have been integrated with lithofacies maps and dip-meter studies in cored sequence to produce quantitative base maps for computerized reservoir models. The maps can also be used as a powerful tool for facies predictions.
27670375|The depositional environment of the Upper Ordovician Harding Sandstone of central Colorado has been debated since Charles Walcott first described its pteraspidomorph agnathans. Although most previous workers have favored a marine setting for the Harding based on the presence of marine invertebrates and burrows, some have argued for a fluvial or estuarine habitat for these primitive vertebrates. This study presented here is the first regional, comprehensive analysis of the depositional environments and sequence stratigraphy of the Harding Sandstone. The Harding contains deposits from an array of coastal environments, including transition zone, shoreface, bay / lagoon, washover fan, and bayhead delta. Features of these environments suggest that the Harding was deposited on a microtidal coast with low wave energy. Within the study area, two depositional sequences are developed, and each apparently lacks a lowstand systems tract. The Harding contains numerous flooding surfaces, which preclude any attempt to interpret the Harding as a single depositional environment. Flooding surfaces commonly display evidence of stratigraphic condensation, including burrowed firmgrounds, concentrations of pteraspidomorph plates, and dolomitic cementation. Pteraspidomorph remains are associated most commonly with shoreface facies, are uncommon in bay / lagoon facies, and are absent from bayhead-delta facies. Collectively, these occurrences argue for a shallow-marine habitat for these primitive vertebrates.
3515781|Embedment structures are formed by the growth of a skeleton-producing host organism around a cavity maintained by an infesting organism. Through the process of embedding, the infesting animal passively produces a secure dwelling structure. This embedment ethology is common in modern and ancient marine settings. Previously unrecognized embedment cavities from ancient lacustrine stromatolites are identified and described here for the first time. Cenozoic lake deposits from the Washakie Basin in Wyoming and Turkana Basin in Kenya contain stromatolites with regularly pitted surfaces, which represent openings to embedment cavities. Stromatolitic laminae deflect downwards adjacent to the cavities. These cavities are circular to oval in cross-section and terminate with a blind base. A lack of branching, basal rootstock, and encrustation by stromatolitic laminae suggest that the cavities were not formed by the overgrowth of plant material, as has been suggested previously. Moreover, the rounded and evenly spaced cavities indicate that these structures are not the spaces between abutted columns of stromatolite material. These findings suggest that some lacustrine stromatolitic ecosystems are more diverse than the body-fossil record demonstrates. It is probable that more embedment structures will be recognized in lacustrine and marine stromatolitic settings.
10.2307/3514549|The International Code of Zoological Nomenclature imposes no restriction on languages for systematic descriptions. Thus, the name of any animal taxon at or below the family-group level, if published after 1757, is available, regardless of the language in which its description was first published. In fact, paleontological taxa have been described in not less than two dozen languages, about eight of which account for the vast majority of the taxonomic literature. It is suggested that a good grounding in Latin and a working knowledge of German and Russian facilitates access to almost all the major languages, except Chinese.
41317464|The presence, distribution, and preservation of coral-rich facies in the lower Oligocene Gornji Grad Beds of Slovenia are analyzed using a microtaphofacies approach. This method allows taphonomic signatures to be recognized in thin section along with the presence of coral specimens and growth forms within and between stratigraphie logs. Coral-dominated limestones within the Gornji Grad Beds are represented by rudstones in a packstone-wackestone matrix. The conditions are generally reconstructed as turbid water due to the prevalence of muddy carbonate matrix, which also leads to excellently preserved morphological features in thin section. These beds represent a reference area for the study of Paleogene corals, especially during the Oligocene, a key phase of reef development during the Cenozoic. This study also contributes to the characterization of fossil reefs in turbid-water environments. The evaluated coral fauna is dominated by delicate-branching Stylophora and Acropora, although thickly branching (Actinacis, Goniopora), phaceloid (Caulastrea), and massive forms (Alveopora, Astreopora, Antiguastrea) also occur. Assessed taphonomic signatures include fragmentation, abrasion, bioerosion, and encrustation. Three types of bioerosion traces are distinguished (Entobia, Gastrochoenolites, Trypanites). Encrustation includes both thin crusts and complex multi-taxon sequences dominated by coralline algae. Five microtaphofacies are distinguished based on variation of taphonomic signatures, taxonomie composition, and growth forms. Differences in microtaphofacies are interpreted with respect to turbidity, sediment accumulation, and water turbulence; both parautochthonous and allochthonous deposits are reconstructed. A depositional model based on the distribution of microtaphofacies in the studied sections shows a succession of coral communities with different colonization strategies reflecting generally high stress levels.
3515722|Nothing is known about the community-scale plant ecology of early Cretaceous volcanic environments in the southern high latitudes. The paleoecology of the early Aptian (119-120 Ma) volcaniclastic Cerro Negro Formation of South Shetland Islands, Antarctica, has been investigated to improve understanding of these enigmatic ecosystems. This unit was deposited in an intra-arc setting at the edge of the paleo-polar circle (66S). Taphonomic analysis of megaflora in seven volcanic facies indicates the existence of a spatially complex vegetation mosaic co-dominated by conifers, bennettites, and ferns. A lower stratigraphic unit was deposited by high-magnitude, low-frequency silicic eruptions, partially reworked by fluvial processes. Following ash falls, shrubby communities of ferns and bennettites dominated for short periods in low-altitude paleovalleys before being replaced by araucarian-podocarp-fern conifer forests. Forests of podocarp conifers and bennettites covered adjacent midaltitude slopes of active volcanic cones. These were destroyed periodically by hot pyroclastic flows, and their charred remains washed down into paleovalley fluvial systems. Analysis of architectural and phenological data from both major forest communities indicates the predominance of evergreen trees with a canopy height of c. 20-30 m. Growth-ring analysis indicates that, despite occasional catastrophic eruptions, growing conditions were mostly favorable and uniform, although in riparian paleovalley niches flooding locally produced more stressful growing conditions. An upper stratigraphic unit was deposited by low-magnitude, high-frequency basaltic eruptions. Shrubby, fern and bennettite-dominated vegetation, together with local conifer stands, colonized this environment. Growth of more widespread arborescent vegetation in the upper unit was inhibited by high-frequency volcanic disturbances. Bennettites are much more abundant and diverse in the Cerro Negro Formation compared with coeval, non-volcanic sites in the southern high latitudes, indicating that this group may have favored volcanic environments.
27670516|Microbialite masses within the lowest Triassic strata along the southern periphery of the tropical Yangtze Platform were produced in a post-Permian microbial regime. These microbialites (the Hindeodus parvus Zone), which are represented by thrombolites, occur only where terrigenous sediment influx was rare, even in shallow-marine settings. The lower parts of the thrombolites lie upon a distinctly unconformable Permian-Triassic boundary and exhibit a thin-bedded to thick-bedded planar structure. In contrast, the upper parts of the thrombolites contain domed macrostructures that interact in complex ways with skeletal grainstones and packstones. Irregular frameworks of thrombolite bodies differ in degree of lateral and vertical accumulation and in the amalgamation of mesoclots of microbial origin; they exhibit marked variations in texture. A transgressive episode occurred in the earliest Triassic following the mass extinctions, and this included the initiation of microbial regimes that usually formed planar thrombolite masses in lower-energy, deep subtidal environments. The varied textures and structures of thrombolites during deposition may reflect a combination of sea-level fluctuations, physicochemical ocean conditions, microbial activity, skeletal-sediment influx, and other factors. These earliest Triassic, uniquely microbial regimes collapsed in stepwise fashion and were succeeded by the Isarcicella staeschei and I. isarcica zones, which contain a predominance of mudstones, suggesting a marked sea-level transgression. Space-specific and time-specific, the earliest Triassic microbialites record short-term, high-resolution paleoenvironmental fluctuations immediately after the end-Permian extinctions.
10.2307/3514734|Fossil invertebrate shells and carapaces displaying preserved original color patterns are among the rarest fossils. The fossil record of color patterns extends into the Middle Cambrian where the trilobite Anomocare displays a fan-like array of stripes on the pygidium. About 180 Paleozoic genera are known with patterns, including trilobites, cephalopods, gastropods, brachiopods, bivalves, crinoids, and crustaceans. Based upon an analysis of these taxa, it appears that patterns and pigments in middle and late Paleozoic invertebrates may have served several functions such as warning displays, light screening, camouflage, or waste disposal. However, the presence of color patterns in fossil invertebrates in the early Paleozoic may have developed prior to the evolution of vision sufficiently sophisticated to see them. This suggests that camouflage and warning displays were not the original functions of color patterns, and that in the earliest Paleozoic they may not have been functional. We propose a hypothesis that involves three developmental phases in the evolution of invertebrate color patterns: 1) the incorporation of metabolic by-products, perhaps some pigmented and some not pigmented, into shells and carapaces as a means of disposal of dietary or metabolic wastes, 2) use of these pigments and patterns as an environmental adaptation, such as light screening, and 3) the use of patterns for camouflage, mimicry, and warning display during and following the evolution of vision in predators sufficiently sophisticated to see the patterns.
10.2307/3514729|Nonrandomness in the geologic record results from constraints on direction and/or rate of change in phenomena. A major goal of historical geology, the explanation of non-random patterns, is often impeded by their time serial nature, which invalidates direct comparison of phenomena. However, sufficiently long sampling intervals, or more desirably, generalized differencing of the data, can reduce the constraints of contingency enough to allow direct bivariate comparison. Examples analyzing echinoid diversity and marine invertebrate extinction rates as functions of temperature and sea level are given. The results seem to support the notion that temperature is a more direct, proximal control on diversity and extinction than sea level.
25835643|Studies that assess the ecological fidelitypreservation of the original communityof terrestrial shell accumulations are uncommon but essential to infer accurate changes in past ecosystems. When live-dead comparisons are unavailable, the taxonomic agreement between differing taphofacies may be used to evaluate the fidelity of ancient shelly assemblages. This approach was used to approximate the fidelity of Quaternary land snails preserved in carbonate-rich paleosols from the northeastern islets of the Canary Archipelago. Such macroscopic alteration as fragmentation, corrosion, carbonate coating, and color loss affected shells, however, microscopic analyses concluded substantial diagenetic alterations unlikely. The shell abundance negatively correlated with fragmentation, suggesting that a higher proportion of shells may be a consequence of higher shell input rate and lower shell destruction rate rather than lower sedimentation rate, as predicted by taphonomic models. Strongly and weakly altered taphofacies significantly differed in species abundances. Substantial taphonomic bias was improbable, however, because both taphofacies contained taxa with comparable durability. Temporal fluctuations in taphonomy and ecology suggest variable environmental conditions operated through time. The overall decline in shell abundance from the last glacial to interglacial paleosols may be explained by a decline in humidity and reduced island surface area resulting in lowered snail proliferation, and in turn, a decreased net shell input rate. This study emphasizes that the original community is preserved within the studied terrestrial shell accumulations regardless of the degree of taphonomic alteration. Measures of past taxonomic richness and diversity, therefore, may be used as a reliable measure of the original snail community.
3515861|The end-Permian mass extinction was the largest Phanerozoic biotic crisis that resulted in significant and permanent ecological change. In order to examine ecological aspects of the recovery, shell beds deposited in environments ranging from nearshore to storm wave base were examined from three stratigraphic intervals in the Lower Triassic of the western US. Shell beds of the first interval, the Griesbachian Dinwoody Formation, are low-diversity, monospecific beds of Claraia and Promyalina, commonly with the inarticulate brachiopod Lingula Data from the Nammalian Sinbad Limestone (Moenkopi Formation) provide a small window into the second time interval, in which common low-diversity (bivalves and microgastropods) shell beds occur. Within the third interval, represented by the Spathian Virgin Limestone (Moenkopi Formation) and Thaynes Formation, the bivalves Promyalina and Permophorus are found in both monospecific and polytaxic beds. Crinoids are also commonly found as encrinites and as significant contributors to the matrix of these beds. Shell beds range in thickness from pavements to 10s of centimeters and show variable internal complexity. The persistence of monospecific shell beds throughout these three intervals is significant as support for long-term stress during the recovery interval that is not apparent from sedimentological data alone. Although these Early Triassic beds primarily are comprised of members of the Modern Evolutionary Fauna, they are more similar to beds from the Paleozoic in thickness and taphonomic characteristics.
10.2307/3515616|Fossil plants are abundant in dolomite of the Clear Fork Group (Leonardian; late Early Permian) in the North Robertson Unit of the Robertson Clear Fork oil field of Gaines County, West Texas. The unit is a portion of the larger Robertson field. Thirty-seven separate collections were made from drill cores taken in three wells, spanning an interval 300 m thick from a depth below the surface of > 2000 m. The flora is depauperate, comprised of Comia sp. (most abundant), Taeniopteris sp., Delnortea abbottiae, callipterid-like foliage of uncertain affinity, calamite stems, and unidentified foliage of cycad-like character. Plants occur in discrete intervals that are a few cm to 3 m thick and have limited lateral continuity (less then 0.5 km). Plant-bearing dolomites contain interspersed fossil roots and burrows, weakly developed soil horizons, thin coaly accumulations of organic material, and pedogenic and collapse breccias. Fusain is common throughout. Between the plant-bearing layers are heavily bioturbated dolomites with anhydrite-filled burrows, interpreted as lagoonal to shallow subtidal in origin, up to 50 m thick. Contacts between marine units and plant-bearing beds are sharp. The North Robertson Unit and the field is believed to be internal to the Central Basin Platform and bordered by a shallow seaway to the east. The Central Basin Platform probably represented a broad peninsula between the Midland Basin to the east and the Delaware Basin to the west. The site probably consisted of innumerable little islands separated by a network of waterways. Plants occur in "island complexes" consisting of deposits formed in ponded water, beach fronts, and lagoons. Vegetation must have been tolerant of salt or salt spray, seasonal drought, wind, and storms; all species were robust in construction, with either thick leaves or heavy cuticles. This flora, although clearly allied with other Early Permian floras from western North America, is sufficiently peculiar to indicate that habitat differentiation was well developed within the tropical lowlands during the Late Paleozoic.
10.2307/3515640|Concentrically rolled-up silty mudrock laminae, 1-2 mm thick, are found in the uppermost of four, 40-110 cm thick interdune beds within a thick aeolian succession of the c. 1.8 Ga Makgabeng Formation, Waterberg Group, South Africa. These curved laminae are analogous to previously described "roll-ups," biogenic structures generally ascribed to soft-sediment deformation or desiccation of microbial mats overlying either carbonate or siliciclastic sediments, within shallow- to deep-marine paleoenvironments. The Makgabeng roll-ups are thought to reflect desiccation of a microbial mat, followed by resedimentation of cohesive, discrete, curled mat fragments. Their alignment is considered to be the result of an extreme precipitation event. The significance of the South African example of roll-ups is that they appear to have formed within a fully terrestrial paleoenvironment, in one of the oldest known Precambrian deserts. Thus, they represent the oldest evidence for microbial colonisation of a terrestrial setting.
41317459|The timing of the development of the East Asian monsoon in the geologic past is critically important for paleoclimatological studies, yet few quantitative data are available. Based on palynomorphs from six formations, supplemented by leaf fossils from one of these formations in Fushun, northeastern China, we present a quantitative estimate of the evolution of precipitation in this area during the middle Paleocene-late Eocene. The results demonstrate that seasonal precipitation prevailed during the interval, suggesting that the monsoonal system had already developed by this time. Comparing Paleogene climatic results from different latitudes in eastern China, we conclude that the East Asian monsoon must have been significantly enhanced after the late middle Eocene (~ 41-40 Ma), due to increased precipitation differentiation between wet and dry months as shown in the present study. The influence of both the uplift of the Da Hinggan Mountains in northeastern Asia on regional topography and the India-Asia collision globally may have contributed to early monsoon intensification by their influence on air mass movement and associated precipitation patterns in the monsoonal realm.
40606491|Gyrolithes burrows reflect fluctuating salinity in incised valleys that were filling when estuarine circulation was established during Holocene transgression in a mesotidal setting off southern Vietnam. Gyrolithes burrows were produced in stiff mud, but they postdate burrows with diffuse outlines formed in soft mud, and they predate burrows of the Glossifungites suite that represent fully marine conditions. The latter are filled with and overlain by marine sand and shell debris deposits. The porewater composition of the Gyrolithes host sediment supports these findings while exhibiting only 75%-95% of marine chloride values. Gyrolithes is restricted to low-gradient parts of the inner shelf. In narrow confined valleys, an estuarine circulation was established and a temporally lengthy omission ensued while fluvial and tidal currents interacted. The absence of Gyrolithes in other parts of the study area is explained by the steep gradient of incised valleys. This might have resulted in accelerated currents in the incised valleys precluding the Gyrolithes trace maker. Alternatively, environmental conditions resulting from rapid sea-level rise, including increased mud deposition, might have been unfavorable for Gyrolithes producers. No Gyrolithes burrows were found in areas where normally thin marine transgressive deposits rest directly on Pleistocene paleosols.
10.2307/3514572|Continental borderlands are commonly the site of complicated depositional and paleoceanographic relationships. The late Miocene San Joaquin Basin was part of such a complex borderland along the technically active margin of central California. Basins within this borderland exhibit complex lithofacies and biofacies patterns. A detailed analysis of bathyal lithofacies and foraminiferal biofacies within the late Miocene Stevens Sandstone indicates that climatic and eustatic fluctuations played a large role in controlling these patterns. A combined sedimentologic and micropaleontologic approach provides information concerning both the depositional history of a portion of this basin and the paleoceanographic history of the marine water that filled the basin. Lithofacies analysis of core samples from the Coles Levee area emphasizes lithologic variations, small-scale sedimentary structures, and bedding characteristics of sandstones. The rocks examined fit a modified Mutti and Ricci Lucchi (1972) lithofacies classification and form the basis for two lithofacies cross sections, one parallel and the other normal to the depositional trend of the Stevens Sandstone. The cross sections illustrate great depositional variability across the inferred Stevens submarine fan system and episodes of rapid fan progradation and retrogradation in response to lobe switching and eustatic fluctuations. A quantitative analysis of foraminiferal assemblages within the Stevens Sandstone defines four major biofacies: 1) an agglutinated spp. biofacies; 2) a Bolivina vaughani biofacies; 3) an Uvigerina subperegrina biofacies; and 4) a mixed calcareous biofacies. By comparison with foraminiferal distributions in the modern southern California borderland, the stratigraphic distribution of Stevens biofacies is interpreted to represent systematic variations in oxygen concentration of basin waters. Such variations can reflect either a eustatic or climatic control. Episodes of carbonate dissolution in the Stevens may also be climatically controlled and may correlate to global carbonate-dissolution events.
27670502|A new conservation Lagersttte is described from the middle Pleistocene Shiobara Group of central Japan. The biota includes mammals, birds, amphibians, fish, insects, arachnids, flowers, abundant leaves, fungi, and bacteria preserved within laminites that were deposited in a lacustrine environment. Comminuted plant material in medium-grained, massive sandstones was deposited from high-density flows. This fragmentation of plant material probably indicates that it had decayed prior to transport. Plant and animal remains are largely nonfragmented and were thus transported prior to decay. The laminites are composed of rhythmic, millimeter-scale alternations of clay-to-silt-grade clastics with siliceous, diatom-rich layers. In the western part of the basin the diatoms are preserved as opal-A, but in the eastern part, where soft-part preservation is most common, they have been altered to opal-CT and form thin, white, porcelaneous layers with a lepispheric texture. Soft parts are preserved as carbon residues and microbial films, and although siliceous laminae enclose the fossils, permineralization of tissues is infrequent. Soft-part preservation was promoted by the self-sedimentation of aggregated mats of diatoms that shrouded the biota on the lakebed. This stabilized the carcasses and prevented them from being disturbed. It also prevented the diffusion of both the incoming nutrients and outgoing metabolic by-products between carcasses and surrounding water and may thus have promoted soft-part preservation. Silica cementation also inhibited the destruction of fossils by the intense weathering in the humid Japanese climate.
10.2307/3515542|Unusual structures, observed on taphonomically-reworked ammonite molds collected in the Oolithe Ferrugineuse de Bayeux Formation (Bajocian, Normandy), are described. They appear as depressions in the mold, located below "holes" in the shell, and they are filled with a sediment plug texturally different from the mold. These structures are called "pseudoborings" because of their similarity in both external shape and size (from 2 mm, to over 10 mm in diameter) to bivalve borings. Detailed analyses of polished surfaces and thin sections cut through the mold show that the depth of penetration of pseudoborings and the irregularity of the plug-mold boundary exclude a bioerosional origin. The origin of pseudoborings is hypothesized to be due to erosion of unlithified sediments and exhumation of sediment-filled ammonite shells, previously damaged by attacks by cephalopod predators, resulting in a partial emptying of the conch.
10.2307/3514749|Changes in the morphological characteristics of living planktonic foraminiferal species, Globorotalia inflata and Globorotalia hirsuta, reflect the thermal structure of the upper water column in the western North Atlantic. Described using Fourier series analysis, morphologic variation in these species proves useful in extracting paleoceanographic information from fossil foraminiferal assemblages. For example, a well defined thermocline is accompanied by a significant decrease in elongation and quadrateness in G. inflata tests. Changes in the test shape of G. hirsuta are minimal in an area where the thermocline is poorly developed and water temperatures change gradually over a large water depth range (2 over 800 meters). The observed shape changes in G. inflata with depth indicate that this globorotalid species adds an additional chamber in the final whorl with depth, dependent on the nature of the thermal stratification. This indication is corroborated by the fact that approximately 25% of the G. inflata specimens from below the thermocline have thin transparent fourth chambers in the final whorl compared to only 2% in waters above the thermocline. The results of this study further suggest that morphological changes observed in fossil populations of globorotalid species are to some degree the result of shape variation in the water column due to the nature of the thermal structure. The shape characteristics of fossil globorotalid foraminifera may possibly be used to determine the past hydrographic conditions of a region.
27670393|Drillholes interpreted as the products of gastropod predation have become the most widely applied proxy for predator-prey interactions in the fossil record. In a broader sense, they have also become accepted as reflecting the evolution of many aspects of predator-prey interactions; e.g., intensity, behavior, and efficiency. Because of the relative paucity of published studies, the generality of long-term trends revealed by recent compilations of drilling intensity data has not been widely tested. The present study examines predatory gastropod drilling intensity in bivalves from the late early to early late Maastrichtian Fox Hills Formation within the Western Interior Seaway (WIS). These data allow a new comparison to be made to drilling intensity values reported previously from coeval United States Coastal Plain collections. 6,910 valves and 4,343 articulated specimens representing 53 bivalve species were examined for evidence of drilling predation. Although the approach employed was designed to maximize the number of drillholes recorded, only 236 unequivocal drillholes, 20 possible drillholes, 11 partial drillholes, and a single specimen with multiple drillholes were found, resulting in a maximum drilling intensity of 3.3%. These drillholes are thought to have been largely produced by naticids, which are abundant in these deposits. When compared to other published studies of Maastrichtian gastropod drilling, these data document that drilling intensities in the latest Cretaceous varied considerably both spatially and temporally, and that the WIS record provides a lower baseline for Cretaceous drilling than that derived from coeval Coastal Plain localities.
3515489|Large (up to 31-meter high) coral banks (or bioherms) occur on the continental shelf off mid-Norway at water depths between 220 and 310 meters. They are built up by the cold-water, ahermatypic, scleractinian coral Lophelia pertusa (L.). A 3-km-wide and 200-km-long traverse was mapped geophysically across a large part of the mid-Norway shelf. A total of 57 suspected individual banks were found. Although they occur in local clusters of up to 9 banks per km<sup>2</sup>, the mean density along the whole transect is only 0.09 suspected banks per km<sup>2</sup>, with the highest regional density (1.2 banks per km<sup>2</sup>) occurring above subcropping presumed Paleocene bedrock. A detailed investigation employing an ROV (remotely operated vehicle) was conducted of a cluster consisting of 9 individual banks. Based on geophysical, visual, geochemical, radiocarbon, and other analyses, we conclude that at least some of the coral banks haue been forming at the same locality for over 8,000 years, and that there is a strong correlation between coral-bank occurrence and relatively high values of light hydrocarbons (methane, ethane, propane, and n-butane) in near-surface sediments. To explain the structure and distribution of these coral banks, we propose a model where they form as a consequence of local fertilization that results from focused hydrocarbon micro-seepage of deep thermogenic hydrocarbons migrating to the surface along inclined, permeable sedimentary strata. A direct corollary of this model is that if and when the source of local fertilization is shut off, the bioherms die out. This possibly could be the reason why extinct bioherms are more common than live ones in some areas of the ocean.
27670451|Rare assemblages of woody coprolites from different strata of the Two Medicine Formation provide surprising perspectives on the feeding behavior of Late Cretaceous ornithischian dinosaurs. Most of the irregularly shaped, calcareous specimens are largely composed of fragmented conifer wood (13%-85%) and can be identified as coprolites by the presence of distinctive backfilled dung beetle burrows. The large size (up to 7 L in volume), fibrous contents, and associated bones and eggshell strongly suggest that the source animals at one site were Maiasaura hadrosaurs. The wood-bearing coprolites occur in strata ranging in age from 7480 Ma, revealing a recurring (possibly seasonal) habit of wood ingestion. The preponderance of wood in the specimens and the absence of recognizable small-diameter twig fragments suggest that wood ingestion was intentionalthat the coprolite producers had not merely consumed wood inadvertently when feeding on the leaves and bark of terminal branches. Because undegraded wood provides inconsequential nutritive value for vertebrates, it is unlikely that ornithischians would have expended the energy to masticate intact wood for little benefit. Furthermore, patterns of tissue damage in the fecal wood fragments suggest fungal degradation. Thus, the most parsimonious explanation for the high fecal wood content is that the coprolite producers consumed decomposing wood to capitalize on resources released by fungal attack, along with the tissues of the decomposers and associated invertebrate detritivores. These multiple coprolite deposits provide direct fossil evidence of recurring dinosaur diets and suggest that some ornithischians at least occasionally tapped detrital resources. Although such feeding behavior is rare in large extant herbivores, utilization of rotting wood would have augmented the resource options of Cretaceous ecosystems that lacked fodder provided by grasses and other derived angiosperms.
10.2307/3514672|The 125,000 y.b.p. (Sangamon) Falmouth Formation is an emergent fringing-reef complex exposed along the north coast of Jamaica. Q-mode cluster analysis using constituent composition of Falmouth Formation rocks collected near Discovery Bay was employed to differentiate two distinctive facies. These are a dense, well-lithified skeletal packstone containing abundant calcareous algae (Halimeda and coralline algae) and molluscs, and a poorly lithified skeletal grainstone composed primarily of sand-sized coral fragments and coralline algae with only minor amounts of Halimeda. The composition of sediments within these facies is comparable to the composition of back-reef and shallow (5-8 m deep) fore-reef sediments of the Holocene Jamaican fringing-reef system. These results contradict the pervasive idea that sandsized, reef-derived sediments are ineffective as environmental indicators owing to post-depositional transport away from the reef system. Petrographic and X-ray analyses of the mineralogy of Falmouth Formation limestones reveal that back-reef packstones retain much of their original aragonite and high-Mg calcite. In fore-reef grainstones, however, better sorting (increased permeability) results in dissolution and leaching of these metastable phases and reprecipitation of low-Mg calcite. Thus, variability in original sediment texture may create a preservational bias in the fossil record against the more permeable fore-reef deposits.
27670481|Microscopic morphologic variations of Epiphyton thalli in microbial buildups were examined in order to detail controlling factors on morphology and calcification processes, and their implications for identification of calcified microbes. Microbial carbonate of the Zhangxia Formation (Middle Cambrian), Shandong Province, China comprises thrombolites, stromatolites, and Epiphyton buildups, as well as consortia of microbial and metazoan communities. Epiphyton, a rigid framework of the buildups, is subdivided into four types based on characteristics of the branches. Type 1 consists of 75-m-diameter dendritic rods of dense micrite that form bush-shaped and chambered thalli. Type 2 has 80-m-thick branches characterized by transverse segments. Type 3 consists of thin, 50-m diameter micritic branches that form round thalli. Type 4 is characterized by laterally arrayed, branching tubes that form fan-shaped thalli. All morphologic types have bipartite branched filaments as a basic growth pattern. Bush-shaped thalli are dominant in the inner part of the Epiphyton bioherms, while chambered thalli, which are solitary, connected, and tiered, are common in the outer part. Such physical energy conditions as currents or waves control the density, length, and sheath thickness of the branches and propagation pattern of the thalli. Chamber outlines of Epiphyton thalli resemble those of Renalcis, although internal structures of the branching rods and tubes in the chamber walls are distinct. Thalli become similar to that of Renalcis when calcification and diagenesis remove or obliterate the internal fabric of the chamber wall. Morphologic variations of Epiphyton thalli and subsequent textural changes can result in identification as different groups of calcified microbial taxa.
27670310|The stems of once-living Ordovician crinoids, especially the genera Ectenocrinus, Iocrinus, and Cincinnaticrinus, provided suitable attachment sites for the growth and development of both individuals and clusters of Cornulitesa tubiculous, suspension-feeding, worm-like organism. This association of cornulitids as opportunistic secondary tierers on crinoids was common from the Late Edenian into the Maysvillian in the Kope and Fairview portions of the Cincinnatian Series in the Cincinnati Arch area and less common in the Richmondian. Cornulitids utilizing this elevated location avoided some of the turbidity problems associated with an unstable, muddy substrate, and benefited from their ability to feed at a higher tier level. Several specimens of the byssate clam Ambonychia document the presence of Cornulites as secondary, low-level tierers on these bivalves, mainly during the Richmondian. Cornulitids positioned themselves on these ambonychiids to take advantage of feeding currents generated by the host. Cornulitids were also epizoans on the epifaunal clam Caritodens.
41317445|The taphonomic effects of heat and or fire on bones, conodonts, and plant tissues have received much attention from paleontologists and geologists, but the effect of high temperatures on amniote eggshell has been unknown. We compared the effects of heat on extant avian eggshell, which is constructed primarily of CaCO deposited within a protein matrix. Ostrich (Struthio camelus) and glaucous-winged gull (Larus glaucescens) eggshell fragments were heated to temperatures up to 800 C for varying lengths of time. A series of dramatic color changes, similar to those reported for conodonts, began to occur at about 200 C, especially in ostrich eggshell. Reverse curling of eggshell was observed at temperatures above 600 C. Thermogravimetric analysis showed a negligible decrease in mass below 200 C, which was attributable to water loss. For both eggshell types, sharp decreases in mass occurred at about 710 C and the remaining CaO residue represented 55% of the original mass. Heat should not be overlooked as a factor contributing to the variability of fossil eggshell, including color differences and reverse curling. Existence of these features, in turn, may provide important clues for understanding environmental conditions and events preceding or accompanying eggshell fossilization.
27670452|We encountered a highly diverse ichnofauna within the deep-sea fan deposits of the Upper Triassic Al Ayn Formation in Oman. It comprises 32 ichnogenera: 18 ichnogenera represent predepositional graphoglyptids and other trace fossils that are preserved as casts on turbidite soles, and 14 ichnogenera represent postdepositional trace fossils that penetrate turbidite beds. The relatively large size of the area studied certainly favors encountering a high number of ichnogenera. The diversity we found approximately doubles the value that has often been stated in the literature and contradicts the paradigm that the Triassic represents a time of low ichnodiversity in the deep sea. Although the data are limited, in general the recovery of deepsea tracemakers has been very slow owing to environmental disturbances that resulted from cold-bottom-water circulation after the CarboniferousPermian glaciation. The high ichnodiversity in the Al Ayn Formation is explained by its paleogeographic position and locally formed warm bottom waters. The Al Ayn deposits accumulated adjacent to wide evaporitic and carbonate shelves, indicating continuous warm conditions. The Al Ayn clastic system was likely influenced by dense, salt-rich, warm water flowing back to the ocean from the carbonate and evaporitic shelf area. The downwelling water may have reduced the effects of cold water that formed during the Late Paleozoic glaciation and the PermianTriassic anoxia, and, thus, it may have provided a refuge habitat. Despite the global trend of low-diversity deep-sea ichnocoenoses, refuge habitats may have been established in areas less affected by the otherwise harsh conditions.
3515397|Following an earlier study documenting the relationships between wood anatomical features and climate, we examine the utility of dicotyledonous wood assemblages in assessing paleoclimate. The wood anatomy of dicotyledons from modern forest sites in North, Central, and South America, England, Africa, Malaysia, and the Pacific islands was used to derive equations to predict site mean annual temperature. The best equations gave estimates within 5C at validation sites. Because trees are physiologically active over a wide range in temperature throughout the year, it would be surprising if wood anatomical characters were more finely tuned to temperature. Mean annual temperature (MAT) was estimated from five fossil wood assemblages: Yellowstone, Wyoming (early Eocene); Clarno Nut Beds, Oregon (middle Eocene); Post, Oregon (late Eocene); Vantage, Washington (middle Miocene); and Fejej, Ethiopia (Miocene). We used the two best equations to estimate paleotemperature at each site; the MAT estimates differed by 0.1C at Fejej and 5.7C at Yellowstone, with differences intermediate to these at the other fossil sites. Compared to present-day values, the paleotemperature estimates indicate that, at middle latitudes of the Northern Hemisphere, mean annual temperatures were warmer in the Eocene and Miocene, whereas the near-equatorial Fejej site was the same temperature in the Miocene as it is today. Where possible, we compared the MAT estimates obtained using fossil woods with those obtained using fossil leaves, and found discrepancies of up to 13 C. These differences may, in part, reflect the complicating effect of evolutionary trends in wood anatomical characters that may have been independent of climate change.
40606422|The juvenile tyrannosaurid specimen BMR P2002.4.1 possesses a seres of four partially healed, oblong lesions along the left maxilla and nasal bones. The morphology of the lesions and their positioning and orientation are compatible with the jaws of the specimen, suggesting that the lesions may have been the result of a bite from an attacker of similar size and species as the bite victim. Bone remodeling of the lesions indicates partial healing and demonstrates that the injury was not fatal. The injury appears to have affected the growth of the skull, causing a slight warping of the left maxilla and a slight leftward curvature of the nasal. Previous examples of intraspecific behavior in theropods have noted various injuries on skulls; the majority of documented injuries are in adults. The presence and nature of these wounds suggests that juvenile tyrannosaurid behavior included intraspecific aggression among similar-sized individuals, as has been observed in modern crocodilians. Although it is not possible to unequivocally infer behavior from a fossil specimen, as a juvenile animal it is unlikely that the behavior directly reflects sexual competition or conflict, although it may represent learning behavior for later conflict as competing adults or territoriality over food or spatial resources.
3515821|Three categories of fossil aggregates are recognized in the Lower Cambrian Maotianshan Shale biota from SW China: (1) elliptical aggregates with randomly distributed exoskeletal remains of typically small- to medium-size bivalved arthropods (e.g., ostracode-like bradoriids, phyllocarid-like waptiids) hyoliths, and trilobites are interpreted as coprolites, possibly produced by anomalocaridids (e.g., waptiid-rich coprolites) and/or unknown epibenthic predators; (2) elongate, ribbon-like aggregates composed of oriented small hyolith shells, interpreted as the feces of infaunal carnivorous worms such as priapulids; and (3) concentric aggregates, typically with a central nucleus (e.g., remains of medusoid eldoniids or bivalved arthropod carapaces) and peripheral exoskeletal fragments, possibly generated by bottom currents whirling around carcasses. These new coprolite data add to morphofunctional information obtained from fossil organisms and indicate that predation occurred at different levels of the water column with: (1) endobenthic predators (diverse priapulid fauna) feeding near the sediment-water interface; (2) epibenthic predators/scavengers (almost exclusively arthropods); (3) predators living in the lower levels of the water column (e.g., anomalocaridids); and (4) mid-water predators exploiting upper levels in the water column (e.g., eldoniids, ctenophores, chaetognaths). Communities living at or close to the water-sediment interface (epibenthic sensu stricto, meiobenthic, and demersal animals) were exposed to a multidirectional predatorial pressure from infaunal, epifaunal, and mid-water predators. Although predation was diverse, nothing indicates that the food chain extended beyond the level of primary carnivores. Animals already had acquired complex behaviors such as hunting (e.g., anomalocaridids, priapulids) and predator avoidance in which sensory systems were involved. The example of the Maotianshan Shale indicates that the burst of anatomical innovations (new body plans) that characterizes the early Cambrian also was accompanied by the rapid development of new feeding strategies and by an unprecedented expansion of ecological interactions (prey-predator relationships).
3515792|Morphological and environmental taphonomic gradient analysis provides insights into morphological, behavioral, and environmental influences on the preservation of fossil organisms. This paper explores morphological and environmental taphonomic gradients in six crinoid morphotypes (diplobathrids, monobathrids, dichocrinids, platycrinitids, cladids, and flexibles) from three stratigraphic units (the Maynes Creek Formation and the Starrs Cave and "Ollie" Members of the Wassonville Formation) representing distinct depositional environments along an onshore-off-shore transect within the Early Mississippian (Kinderhookian) Wassonville Cycle of southeast Iowa. Taphonomic differences in stalk, calyx, and arm disarticulation, calyx compression, and arm orientation were categorized independently and subjected to a non-parametric ranking test with bootstrapping (rather than a parametric approach, due to the non-additive nature of the data analyzed herein) to explore taphonomic patterns. The results suggest that the disarticulation of the stalk, calyx, and arms behave independently, although patterns of arm disarticulation may be influenced by the disarticulation of the calyx. In general, preservational integrity in fossil crinoids appears to be a function of the relative proportion of articular to non-articular surface area, skeletal innovations, tissue type and properties, survival response behavior, and thickness and rapidity of burial. Furthermore, these results demonstrate a general decrease in preservational integrity from onshore to offshore environments in the Wassonville Cycle and that sedimentation dynamics associated with episodic events are more influential than background deposition in determining preservation in fossil Lagersttten. The methodology employed herein also could be used effectively to identify morphological, behavioral, and environmental taphonomic influences on other fossil organisms.
3515846|The recognition of fossilized charcoal has revealed a long history of wildfire, although the earliest (pre-Late Devonian) records remain conjectural. A variety of approaches (experimental and natural charring, comparative anatomy of a range of plant tissues following combustion, and preliminary reflectance studies) demonstrates that smoldering surface fires already occurred ~405 million years ago (Lochkovian; Early Devonian) in a vegetation of short stature composed mainly of small plants with smooth stems and terminal sporangia. In addition, the textures recorded in pyrite permineralizations are anomalous when compared with those of Lower Devonian and later examples, and indicative of the involvement of different taphonomic processes. From comparison with experimentally pyritized charcoal, they further suggest that the plants were burned before fossilization. The small millimeter-sized fossils (mesofossils) with remarkable, uncompressed cellular preservation indicate the importance of charcoalification in the determination of affinities and functioning of early land plants, and hence the reconstruction of ancient ecosystems.
40960979|The bird track localities of the Republic of Korea are among the richest and most diverse avian tracksites in the world; however, no behavioral studies have been conducted with them. This paper examines the association of invertebrate traces, avian footprints, and small, enigmatic elongate and double-oval traces from silicone casts (KS001 and KS064) taken from two specimens from the Haman Formation near Jinju. Two distinct types of bird tracks are present: a larger type with a well-defined hallux impression on the majority of the tracks, Koreanaornis isp., and a smaller type without a clear hallux impression, K. hamanensis. Elongate traces interpreted to be peck marks and double-oval traces interpreted to be probe marks were found on KS001. The peck marks range from 4.0 to 11.2 mm long and average 7.6 mm in width. There are two distinct morphologies of probe marks which may represent different species or genera of birds. The large probe mark is 6.9 mm long and 2.9 mm wide, whereas the smaller probe marks are 4.5 mm long by 2.2 mm wide and 5.7 mm long by 3.0 mm wide, respectively. Invertebrate traces associated with the bird tracks and feeding traces include Cochlichnus, Steinichnus, and Arenicolites. This represents the first report of peck marks from a fossil bird track locality.
10.2307/3515290|The species survivorship curve for Cenozoic planktonic foraminifera was fitted to exponential (age-independent) and Weibull (age-dependent) models. Model fits that account for censorship bias have substantially lower slopes (extinction probabilities) than suggested by censored data. The best-fit Weibull model has a shape parameter significantly greater than one ( = 1.19), which normally indicates an age-dependent increasing probability of extinction. Deviation of Weibull  from 1.0 (exponential case) seems closely related to temporal variation in records of very short-lived taxa (1 my). The shape of the curves are not sensitive to Corrected Species Survivorship adjustment of longevities, but may reflect taxonomic procedure or temporal variability in extinction probability.
10.2307/3515136|The open-shelf, subtidal, bryozoan-rich Abrakurrie Limestone beneath the Nullarbor Plain (Eucla Platform) is cyclic at the meter-scale. Best developed cycles are asymmetric and comprise three distinct parts with a capping hardground. The basal part (A) is a thin, coarse, grainstone or rudstone that is rich in robust bryozoan and epifaunal echinoid fragments and pecten bivalves, reflecting growth and accumulation in generally high energy, hard bottom environments. The middle part (B), interpreted as a low-energy, sub-swellbase accumulation, is a burrowed to planar cross-laminated fine grainstone or packstone with a low diversity, delicate-branching bryozoan assemblage and little else except scattered infaunal echinoids and pectens. The upper part (C) is a burrowed, abundantly fossiliferous (bryozoan, bivalve, echinoid) rudstone or floatstone. Upward increases in the numbers and diversity of Mg-calcite and aragonitic cheilostome bryozoans, (especially erect rigid, flat robust branching and nodular/arborescent types), gastropods, infaunal bivalves, and infaunal echinoids points to a high-energy environment. Sediments at the top of C are variably cemented by inclusion-rich marine cement (now calcite) that formed a hardground which was subsequently physically and biologically eroded and stained by iron oxides during a period of non-deposition. Sediments from the next overlying cycle succeed cements in uppermost intergranular pores and fill open crustacean burrows. Variably developed cyclicity is interpreted, on the basis of comparable Holocene cool-water shelf sediments, to reflect deposition in generally sub-photic environments that ranged from just below swell base (B) upwards towards the zone of wave abrasion (A and C). Hardgrounds (H) formed when the seafloor was within the zone of wave abrasion. Shallowing and deepening of these critical interfaces was controlled by fluctuating sea level and/or climatic change. Cycles are not correlatable over distances of more than 10 km, probably because their style and preservation is dependent upon capricious seafloor cementation. The nature of sedimentation in similar highenergy environments was influenced by substrate. These cycles have attributes in common with shallowing-upward, high-energy successions that culminate insubaerial exposure. In this instance, however, accumulation space was determined, not by sea level, but by the depth of wave abrasion.
10.2307/3514593|During 1983, populations of the common long-spined echinoid Diadema antillarum were decimated by disease throughout the Caribbean and as far north as Bermuda. The sudden incorporation of tests and spines of large numbers of urchins into surficial reef sediments suggests that sediment composition may be altered with respect to the amount of echinoderm material present. The hypothesis that a clear record of the mass mortality might be preserved in the reef sedimentary record was tested at Bonaire, Netherlands Antilles, where the mortality was reported to have occurred in November, 1983. Samples taken along a series of reef profiles and at specific depths within surficial reef sediments were analyzed for total echinoderm content and the proportion of the echinoderm fraction composed of skeletal elements of D. antillarum. The echinoderm fraction is virtually unchanged from pre-mortality levels as reported by other workers. Echinoderms overall are minor contributors to reef sediments, and skeletal elements of Diadema account for a large proportion of the echinoderm fraction. The lack of a strong signal of the event demonstrates the inadequacy of the reef sedimentary record to preserve this short-term, ecologically significant event.
10.2307/3514837|Archean microfossils are notoriously difficult to recognize. Most that have been reported have subsequently proved to be either younger contaminants or abiogenic pseudofossils. To avoid mistaking contaminants for genuine Archean objects, a set of rigorous collecting and preparation procedures should be followed. These include using petrographic thin sections as the primary source of paleontological data and undertaking small-scale stratigraphic mapping and multiple sampling at each locality. To avoid mistaking pseudofossils for authentic microfossils, a hierarchical series of recognition criteria can be used. Except in exceptional circumstances, real Archean microfossils should occur in thin sections of low-grade rocks of sedimentary origin, consist of kerogen, exceed the minimum size for independently viable cells, co-exist with others of similar morphology, have a hollow structure and display cellular elaboration. Of less value are the statistical and isotopic parameters that have been proposed as biogenicity tests, which often fail to distinguish biological from abiotic assemblages. Six classes of microfossil-like objects from a ca. 3500 m.y. old chert-barite unit in the Warrawoona Group at North Pole, Western Australia, are evaluated using the above techniques. Despite their close resemblances to modern and fossil assemblages of filamentous and coccoid prokaryotic micro-organisms, none of the objects are demonstrably biogenic in origin. Neither are any manifestly primary, though all superficially appear to be so. Several were evidently emplaced long after deposition of the surrounding sediment. This study thus exemplifies the caution needed when searching for Archean microfossils, without which our understanding of the origin and early evolution of life may well be distorted.
3514588|Hermit crabs and their gastropod shell-using behavior have existed since the early Jurassic. Their fossil record is considered to be poor (based on occasional cheliped and carapace fragments). Consequently, their influence on gastropod taphonomy is often overlooked. This paper reinterprets the ecological and paleoecological literature, with additions from my own research, to provide a new synthetic framework illustrating the importance and ubiquity of hermit crabs as taphonomic agents. As secondary inhabitants of gastropod shells, hermit crabs physically modify the shells by breakage, or abrasion. They can also indirectly facilitate the settlement of encrusting and/or boring organisms (bionts) onto the shell or they can alter the molluscan shell assemblage as a whole, by transporting or maintaining shells in an anomalous habitat. These modifications are discussed in this paper under the rubric "anomalies" to provide a framework for future taphonomic studies on secondary inhabitants of shells. Hermit crabs potentially produce numerous anomalies: 1) between-habitat anomalies (bathymetric, transport, and maintenance), 2) within-habitat anomalies (infaunal-epifaunal displacement), 3) abundance anomalies, 4) size-frequency anomalies, 5) shell species anomalies, 6) wear and destruction anomalies, and 7) temporal anomalies. Understanding the hermit crab's taphonomic role clarifies not only their poor fossil record but also their effects on fossil gastropod community structure and, concomitantly, their potential role in influencing the evolution of shell-inhabiting biota.
27670377|This study presents a new, reliable method of dental microwear analysis, which is applied to one of the largest published primate databases and to a Miocene hominoid, Ouranopithecus macedoniensis. Phase I and phase II molar facets were considered. A strict protocol during the molding and casting steps enabled the capture of sharp photographs using light stereomicroscopy. A semi-automatic method allows the quantification of the microwear features on digitized photographs. Inter-specific analysis on extant primates enabled recognition of three clusters. Primates feeding on soft fruits and leaves and having a low incidence of pitting on molar facets constitute the first cluster. A second group composed of the three sub-species of Papio, differs from the others by a high incidence of pitting and scratching on both molar facets. This is related to the consumption of abrasive graminoids and hard items. Pan troglodytes troglodytes and Pongo pygmaeus have an intermediate microwear pattern and constitute a third group. Ouranopithecus macedoniensis is close in dental microwear pattern to the three sub-species of Papio. This suggests the importance of the consumption of hard and abrasive items. Intra-specific analysis of dental microwear variations within a population of Pongo pygmaeus reveals no significant differences related to sex and molar-wear stage. According to these results, this alternative method appears to be repeatable, and therefore reliable, for paleodiet characterization of fossil primates.
3514890|Lateral variation in the abundance, taxonomic composition and amount of abrasion of approximately 14,000 mollusc shells, from 135 km of backbeach along Matagorda Island and Matagorda Peninsula of the central Texas coast, primarily reflect long-term patterns of shoreline progradation and recession. Disarticulated shell is concentrated as a gravel lag during landward transport of barrier island/peninsula sediment from storm washover and during lateral transport by fairweather longshore currents. Consequently, valves occur more densely along erosional barrier segments of Matagorda Peninsula than on progradational beaches of Matagorda Island. Major tidal inlets between barrier segments effectively trap shell, causing an abrupt decrease in shell abundance in a downdrift direction. Taxonomic dominance within any backbeach area directly relates to long-term Holocene patterns of shoreline migration. Shell along progradational Matagorda Island is largely derived from gulfward shoreface communities and valves of normal marine species are predominant. Shell along recessive beaches of Matagorda Peninsula, on the other hand, is primarily derived from the erosion of older bay-estuarine facies now exposed to shoreface currents, and valves of brackish lagoonal species are predominant. Abrupt lateral change in the dominance of different taxonomic groups also coincides with the location of tidal inlets, suggesting that little shell material is transported across these channels by littoral currents. Degree of valve abrasion reflects both the residence time of shell in shoreface settings and occurrence of shell with coarse, poorly sorted sediment. Older valves that are repeatedly eroded, transported landward, and redeposited during the landward migration of Matagorda Peninsula are more abraded. Rates of recession, however, are highest to the northeast in an updrift direction; as a result, average abrasion decreases to the southwest, in the direction of longshore drift. Central Texas coast backbeach molluscan death assemblages largely reflect a time-averaged census of both living communities and older shell assemblages that are sampled over an along-shore length of several kilometers and over a shore-to-basin distance of several hundred meters. These assemblages represent a mixture of mollusc remains initially accumulated over a time span of several thousand years. As such, they reflect the spatial and the temporal proximity of specific sedimentary environments to sites of sediment accumulation. Backbeach shell assemblages record both the ecologic preference of individual taxonomic groups to specific environmental parameters as well as the dominant processes of sediment transport in littoral depositional systems.
3515761|Environmental change, such as variation in upwelling intensity and consequent variation in marine primary productivity, may have profound effects on organisms. In the fossil record, morphological variation within lineages may be explained by environmental changes, although it is often difficult to establish a causal relationship between morphological and environmental change. Size and shape change were quantified in suspension-feeding turritellid gastropods from the Pleistocene and Recent of Chile, wherein both temporal and geographic patterns of variation were found. Upwelling and productivity conditions were reconstructed from a variety of published sources, including information on diatom, foraminiferan, and coccolithophore diversity and abundance, organic carbon burial, percent carbonate, and phosphorite deposition. In addition, carbon and oxygen stable isotope ratios from turritellid shell material were analyzed in order to determine temperature and productivity conditions. Comparison of results from the morphological analysis to upwelling /productivity reconstructions indicates that wider whorl shape and larger shell size are associated with more intense upwelling. Increases in the amount of shell material secreted may be explained by increased availability of food associated with stronger upwelling. This interpretation is consistent with observations of increased shell growth recorded for modern, non-turritellid mollusks. This type of analysis may help to establish causation for certain kinds of morphological evolution observed in the fossil record of turritellids and other suspension-feeding gastropods.
27670563|An isolated limestone deposit preserving thousands of specimens of the dimerelloid brachiopod Peregrinella multicarinata is exposed in fossil-poor Hauterivian strata northwest of the town of Planerskoje on the Crimean Peninsula in southern Ukraine. The limestone consists of micrite that encloses abundant detrital components, mostly brachiopod shell fragments, and also contains authigenic, framboidal pyrite. Cavities are rare; a few have been filled by a sequence of anhedral yellow calcite, seam micrite, banded and botryoidal cement, and equant calcite spar. The limestone preserves a diverse mollusk fauna of low abundance, including modiomorphid, lucinid, and buchiid bivalves and abyssochrysoid, ampullinid, and neritid gastropods. The negative 13C values of the micrite (as low as 13.6) and the character of the associated mollusk fauna indicate that this limestone formed at an ancient hydrocarbon seep. This evidence supports the earlier interpretation of Peregrinella as a seep-restricted brachiopod. The new Ukrainian records of some of the mollusk taxanotably Caspiconcha and Paskentanasignificantly extend the geographic range of these apparently seep-restricted mollusks, suggesting that mollusks at Early Cretaceous seeps had a wider geographical distribution than previously appreciated.
3515736|Cockroaches are the dominant insects in Carboniferous terrestrial biotas, however, approximately 90% of specimens consist only of isolated wings or wing fragments. This bias has been attributed variously to decay and selective preservation, transport, predation, or collection. The state of preservation of Carboniferous cockroaches was documented in extensive collections from the Westphalian at Writhlington, U.K., where collection bias was minimal. The wings may be intact, or more usually fracture across the veins. Laboratory experiments were conducted on the genera Periplaneta and Blaberus to determine the effects of decay and transport following drowning. The decay experiments revealed a series of disarticulation stages that were reached more rapidly in specimens transported in a circular flume, particularly where some decay had occurred first. The wings detached from the body at a late stage, and separated to varying degrees along the veins, whether or not transport was involved. Experiments on isolated wings showed that breakage occurs across the veins. This pattern is more similar to that observed in the fossils than is the pattern induced by decay in water. The results were compared with observations on predation on these cockroaches and other insects by reptiles and arachnids. Vertebrates such as lizards are indiscriminate feeders and commonly bite through the wings. Arachnids with cheliceral teeth fragment the cuticle but may leave the wings intact. Predation by arachnids followed by breakage provides a more likely explanation than decay and selective preservation for the predominance of isolated wings in the fossil biota.
10.2307/3515095|Continued growth of ichnology over the last decade is reflected not only by an expanded realm of applications but also by the emergence of more holistic approaches involving the ichnofabric concept. Both of these trends are exemplified by recent ichnologic applications in paleoceanographic, paleoclimatologic, and sequence stratigraphic studies. Ichnofabrics and representative ichnocoenoses in pelagic/hemipelagic strata provide the basis for reconstructing benthic oxygenation histories of marine basins. Recent studies demonstrate that oxygen-related ichnocoenoses, when mapped within lithochronostratigraphic units, can help recognize spatial paleo-oxygenation gradients that reflect intrabasinal variations in circulation and govern organic matter accumulation. When cointerpreted with sedimentologic data, ichnology-based paleo-oxygenation histories also can be used to recognize and interpret paleoceanographic cycles and events, particularly those linked to climatic perturbations such as Milankovitch rhythms and El Nio-like phenomena. As demonstrated by recent investigations in the context of marine sequence stratigraphy, potential applications of ichnology in paleobathymetric studies extend well beyond the use of generalized ichnofacies models. Ichnofabric parameters can facilitate reconstructions of relative sea-level dynamics by providing supplementary or primary evidence used to delineate key sequence stratigraphic surfaces. Sequence boundaries and transgressive surfaces, which record erosional exhumation of underlying strata, typically are marked by well-expressed substrate-controlled ichnocoenoses (e.g., those representative of the firmground Glossifungites ichnofacies). Maximum flooding surfaces and other parasequence-bounding marine flooding surfaces can be recognized on the basis of abrupt to subtle vertical ichnofabric successions that signal sea-level-mediated paleoenvironmental change.
10.2307/3515575|The late Pliocene to early Pleistocene siliciclastic succession of western Emilia (northern Italy) forms part of the infill of the Po Plain-Adriatic foredeep, a collisional basin with active thrusting during deposition, and is characterized by 5-to-20-m-thick fining-upward sedimentary cycles. Late Pliocene cycles were deposited in an inner-to-middle shelf setting at the end of a long-term uplift-denudation cycle controlled by tectonics. Cycles are characterized by shell beds of biogenic origin, particularly abundant in the middle of each cycle. The stacking pattern of paleocommunities, with particular reference to their paleodepths, reflects that each cycle is the product of sea-level variation. In particular, early transgressive deposits are marked by a Nuculana community, indicating a shelly-sand bottom of the inner shelf; late transgressive deposits and the condensed section are marked by a shelly bottom Timoclea community developed at times of lowered clastic input; highstand deposits are characterized by a muddy soft bottom Pinna community. The situation changed near the boundary of the early Pleistocene, when a new uplift-denudation cycle started, renewing sediment availability and increasing the slope of the nearby mountain front. Local climatic conditions periodically triggered the sudden delivery on the shallow shelf of large amounts of sediment through hyperpycnal flows and related turbidity currents generated by catastrophic river floods. Sandy shelfal lobes form the lower reaches of the delta front. These are characterized by densely packed shell beds and the occurrence of echinoderm obrution deposits. Recurring sedimentological assemblages from sandstones, characterized by the sandy bottom Spisula and Ditrupa communities, and in situ faunas from intervening mudstones, characterized by the muddy-bottom, hypoxic Arctica (and Corbula ?) community, suggest that the lower part of a cycle formed during deglaciation following glacial maxima, at times of high input of freshwater and river-borne nutrients and high summer pelagic productivity. Mudstones from the upper part of the cycle, with dispersed remains of the muddy-bottom Venus community, indicate return to full interglacial conditions and to humid, low seasonality climates. Thus, early Pleistocene cycles could be correlative to sapropel-non sapropel cycles typical of the eastern Mediterranean deep water successions. Moreover, the western Emilia fossil and sedimentary records suggest that cyclic deposition was controlled by factors other than eustasy, providing a case study for future sequence stratigraphic modeling in active tectonic settings.
3515708|The benthic ecosystem off the northeastern Adriatic coast is composed largely of clades characteristic of Sepkoski's Modern Fauna. However, across broad expanses of fine-sediment substrate, attached epibenthic suspension feeders strongly dominate in some areas and are co-dominant with mobile epibenthic deposit feeders in other areas. Preservation of skeletal residues in these areas would be composed largely of remains of attached suspension feeders. Therefore, although composed largely of Modern Fauna clades, the benthic ecosystem and its potential fossil remains reflect Paleozoic rather than post-Paleozoic ecology. This Paleozoic-style benthic ecology corresponds with low-nutrient water, low intensity of grazing predation, and relatively few endobenthic bioturbators, all of which were more characteristic of Paleozoic than post-Paleozoic seas. The thriving epibenthic attached suspension-feeding benthos in the northeastern Adriatic apparently results from the interaction of all or a subset of these three conditions.
10.2307/3515168|A 300-m sequence of well-exposed fossiliferous outcrops in bluffs along the Colville River, northern Alaska, has yielded diverse, well-preserved Maastrichtian and Danian ostracode assemblages. High-latitude faunas of this age are uncommon, so that this locality provides a unique opportunity to reconstruct an ancient arctic environment. The Maastrichtian strata are nonmarine flood-plain deposits and contain diverse terrestrial and aquatic fossils. The paleoenvironment was a broad, flat, water-saturated delta plain with a diverse herbaceous ground cover, emergent and subaquatic vegetation, and a dry ground upland microthermal forest of deciduous coniferous and broad-leaved plants. The nonmarine ostracodes indicate a ground-water system with elevated salinity of marine composition. The Danian strata are predominantly marginal-marine and shallow-marine and include an abundant and diverse invertebrate fauna. The paleoenvironment was a mild- to cold-temperate shallow ocean dominated by reduced salinity, terrestrial influence, and frequent storm activity. Sediments and faunas show a gradual shift upsection from lagoonal and bay facies to inner shelf facies. During the Maastrichtian and early Paleocene, polar terrestrial and marine assemblages consisted predominantly of endemic organisms that were adapted to the cool temperatures, seasonal low light conditions, and geographic isolation characteristic of northern high-latitude environments. Some of the nonmarine arctic ostracode genera are believed to represent their oldest geologic occurrence, suggesting that the genera perhaps evolved in northern Alaska during the Late Cretaceous. These "arctic" genera migrated southward during the Tertiary and constitute some of the more typical Nearctic fossil and recent nonmarine genera of the temperate middle latitudes.
3515758|Limiting factors affecting faunal distribution in the Ordovician rocks of the Precordillera basin, western Argentina, are analyzed and tentatively established. Eight biotic intervals ranging from the Tremadoc to the Ashgill are defined based upon the distribution in time and space of articulate brachiopod, trilobite, sponge, and bryozoan genera. High magnitudes of turnover are recognized on the basis of vertical ranges of taxa; this observation also is supported by low indices of carryover and holdover. Times of high faunal change define boundaries between the biotic intervals. Abiotic constraints largely prevail over ecological factors in controlling most substantial shifts in faunal composition and distribution at the interval boundaries. Taxonomic composition through different intervals is consistent with a change in paleobiogeographic affinities throughout the Ordovician, from markedly Laurentian affinities in the lowermost Ordovician to increasing Gondwanic affinities towards the Middle and Late Ordovician. At a smaller scale, the development of successive intervals is overprinted strongly by changes in facies and tectonic-induced setting. The composition and structure of assemblages were modified dramatically in the late Arenig-early Llanvirn with the changeover from sponge and brachiopod-dominated assemblages to brachiopod and trilobite-dominated assemblages with abundant bryozoans. This change occurs in consort with a shift from carbonate facies to mixed carbonate-siliciclastic and exclusively siliciclastic facies, and is considered to be the result of sea-level rise and the development of subsiding depocenters in the northern and southern parts of the Precordillera basin. On paleoecological grounds, this episode has allowed the biotic intervals to be grouped in two distinct stages. The lower stage includes intervals 1 to 3, whereas the upper stage includes intervals 6 to 8; intervals 4 and 5 represent the diachronous arrangement of both types of assemblages due to the gradual southward flooding of the basin. Abiotic factors acted at different temporal and spatial scales. Hence, their effect on faunal composition is explained best by distinguishing hierarchical levels of incidence. On this basis, three major hierarchical levels of factors are proposed. The general context in which faunas developed is provided by the shifting position of the Precordillera terrane throughout the Ordovician; accordingly, a first-order hierarchical level is represented by paleogeographic position. The second-order level is represented by the combined effects of rapid sea-level rise and basin deepening, with a high paleoecological impact on the fauna. The third-order level includes single factors producing minor changes in otherwise stable community structures (e.g., minor sea-level changes, fluctuations in water temperature, different fades types).
3515777|The end-Permian extinction reflects one of the greatest biotic crises in earth history. Evidence of the event and its after-math is well preserved in Permian/Triassic transitional strata of Sichuan Province in South China, originally deposited in the western part of the Yangtze epicontinental sea. Lowest Triassic strata (the Hindeodus parvus conodont Zone) lie with apparent conformity on uppermost Permian skeletal packstone and wackestone, and are overlain by deeper subtidal thinly bedded argillaceous lime mudstone. These beds are characterized by thrombolitic mesostructures that exhibit macrostructures of highly variable columnar shapes, showing a distinctive stratigraphic succession in bed form from planar to domed and subspherical forms. Spheroidal and ellipsoidal micritic bodies (30 m in average diameter) are preserved in clusters and are interpreted as calcified coccoidal microbes. The earliest Triassic thrombolitic columns and masses are considered to have been constructed by vertical and lateral accretion of mesoclots of microbial origin. Even after the end-Permian extinction, microbial formation of carbonates apparently predominated in Sichuan in localized subtidal to intertidal environments. Microbialites that formed immediately after the end-Permian extinction represent not only disaster-related forms in stressed environments, but also space- and timespecific, environmentally induced carbonates that may be related in part to the causal mechanism of extinction and delay of biotic recovery. The microbialite sequences in Sichuan Province, South China provide a glimpse of the pre-existing "background" and following "foreground" microbial world, and hence a window that was open temporarily in the post-extinction interval.
27670582|Laboratory experiments conducted with larvae and adults of the northern or southern masked chafer beetle (Scarabaeidae: Cyclocephala lurida or C. borealis) tested hypotheses that beetle larvae construct meniscate, backfilled burrows and that they are distinct from backfilled burrows constructed by marine organisms. Beetle larvae were placed in narrow enclosures with laminated moist, fine-to-medium-grained sand and allowed to burrow for several weeks. Beetle larvae did not create open burrow systems but instead excavated single open cells approximately twice their body width and roughly equal to their body length. Burrowing was accomplished by scraping sediment with the head and mandibles, consolidating excavated sediment into a ball, rotating 180 with the ball to the back of the cell, and packing the ball onto the posterior end of the cell. The beetle larvae produced vertical-to-horizontal traces that were straight to tortuous and composed of discrete packets of meniscate backfill. Adult chafer beetles moved through the media using a sand-swimming motion, that is, by passing sand around their bodies with the legs. Traces produced by adults are characterized by straighter axes and mixed passive and active fill resulting from sediment collapse and sediment transported backward. When vertical, adult burrows contain chevron-shaped fill. Traces produced by these beetles are similar to adhesive meniscate burrows found in many ancient continental deposits as old as the Permian and can be assigned to Naktodemasis isp. We propose that Naktodemasis with this kind of burrow morphology were soil-dwelling insect larvae that used burrowing mechanisms similar to chafer beetle larvae. These experiments demonstrate that this kind of burrow morphology is terrestrial in origin, suggesting that previous interpretations that the burrows are subaqueous in origin need to be reevaluated.
27670398|This work describes the occurrence of numerous, nearly intact Mecochirus rapax populations within Thalassinoides suevicus burrows in the Lower Cretaceous Boca do Chapim Formation. This exceptional preservation allows for unquestionable attribution of a specific producer to a biogenic structure. Analysis of sedimentological features combined with functional morphology and ichnological inferences suggests that the unique preservation of the fauna resulted from river flood depositional events that buried successive Mecochirus populations in a shallow marine setting.
27670396|The environmental distribution of lingulide brachiopods in western Canadian Triassic marine successions, their relationship with other infaunal organisms occupying the same ecospace, and their role in the aftermath of the Permian-Triassic extinction event is summarized. Western Canada is an ideal location to assess lingulide distribution patterns as upper Paleozoic and lower Mesozoic strata are extensively exposed, and lingulides (cf. Lingularia Biernat and Emig) and the trace fossil Lingulichnus Hakes are both common. A distribution comparison of in situ lingulides and Lingulichnus Hakes with concordantly emplaced lingulide shells and shell beds shows clearly that the latter is a poor indicator of true environmental distribution of these infaunal suspension feeders. Lingulides are rare in uppermost Paleozoic strata in the study area. Most occurrences consist of isolated valves or abraded material in erosional lags. Lingulides remain minor components of infaunal communities during the earliest Triassic (Griesbachian). Although lingulide valves and valve fragments are the dominant body fossil observed, trace fossil analysis indicates that lingulides were minor components of earliest Triassic infaunal communities. Lingulides increase in abundance and importance during the Dienerian and Smithian. Shallow and marginal marine trace-fossil assemblages of this age are dominated commonly by Lingulichnus. Lingulide fossils are less abundant but are found in many shallow and marginal marine lithofacies. Lingulides comprise only a minor component of late Smithian through Anisian infaunal communities. Canadian lingulide abundance reached an acme during the latest Middle Triassic (Ladinian). Fossil material is common in many environments, however, in situ lingulides and the trace fossil Lingulichnus occur primarily in tempestites in proximal offshore through lower shoreface settings and in intertidal flat settings. Although quantitatively more abundant in the Middle Triassic, lingulides were proportionally more abundant in Lower Triassic successions. Regardless of relative changes in abundance, the environmental distribution of lingulides did not differ between Early and Middle Triassic successions. Lingulides comprise only a minor component of Upper Triassic infaunal communities. Early Triassic lingulides did not occupy any environmental settings from which they were excluded prior to the Permian-Triassic extinction or after the postextinction recovery interval. Thus, lingulides were not postextinction disaster taxa but rather were ecological opportunists that dominated some Early Triassic shallow and marginal marine successions.
3514847|During the Kimmeridgian and Tithonian stages (154.7-145.6 Ma) of the Late Jurassic, the Late Permian-early Mesozoic megacontinent Pangea was progressively fragmented by two rift systems that propagated westward out of the Tethys Sea and a third more persistent rift system that connected the Boreal and Tethys seas. By the late Tithonian, these major rift systems produced interconnected oceanic seaways that divided Pangea into four continental segments: North America, Eur-Asia, and northern and southern Gondwana. Increased rates of sea-floor spreading during the Jurassic reduced the volumetric capacity of ocean basins and produced a sea level rise through the period that culminated in the Late Jurassic. The extensive marine shelf margins and epeiric seas hosted a widely distributed and diverse ammonoid fauna. Late Kimmeridgian and Tithonian ammonoids are reported from 47 localities worldwide. Ammonoids changed from cosmopolitan in the Kimmeridgian to strongly provincial by the late Tithonian. Warm to tropical water Tethys-Panthalassa Realm, comprised of several faunal provinces, occupied the eastern, central, northwestern, and southwestern portions of the Tethys Sea and both sides of the Panthalassa Ocean. By the early Tithonian, faunal communication existed between the northwestern Tethys Sea and the eastern Panthalassa Ocean through the proto-Gulf of Mexico. By the late Tithonian, faunal similarities between the southwestern and central Tethyan provinces and southeastern Panthalassa indicate the opening of the proto-Indian Ocean so that northern and southern Gondwana had become separate continents. A region of the equatorial Tethys that includes most of the present Arabian Peninsula contains neritic platform facies but lacks ammonoids. In high northern latitudes, cool to cold water faunas formed a Boreal Realm which extended westward across northern North America, Europe, and Siberia during middle and late Tithonian. Late Kimmeridgian and Tithonian ammonoid distributions when compared with Late Jurassic paleoclimate simulations show likely causal relationships with sea surface water temperature and upwelling, and possibly shed light on the temperature limitations of ammonoids. Results from modeled seasonal sea surface temperature, sea ice distribution, precipitation-evaporation, and wind-driven upwelling permit the evaluation and quantification of paleoenvironmental factors favorable as well as pernicious for ammonoid distribution.
3515812|Through a detailed regional study of the Lower Triassic (Nammalian) Sinbad Limestone Member of the Moenkopi Formation in southeastern Utah, previously qualitative paleoecological observations on Early Triassic gastropods have been quantified. Paleocommunities of the Lower Triassic Sinbad Limestone Member are dominated by gastropod juveniles and small-size adult gastropods (99% of the gastropods are smaller than 1 cm) that form numerous microgastropod packstones and grainstones that were deposited subtidally. The results from this case study of the Sinbad Limestone Member reflect a global Early Triassic phenomenon of microgastropod-dominated open-shelf environments. These characteristics of the paleoecology of Early Triassic gastropod faunas are non-actualistic since, during Ecological Evolutionary Units (EEUs), larger gastropods and normal-marine communities are invariably common somewhere contemporaneous with the occurrence of microgastropod-dominated faunas. Early Triassic microgastropods behaved as repopulation-interval opportunists during the aftermath of the end-Permian mass extinction, proliferating into vacated ecospace after most groups became extinct or dropped to very low numbers as a result of the end-Permian mass extinction. Small-sized adults and numerous juveniles are characteristics of opportunists and of groups inhabiting physiologically and/or chemically harsh environments. The characteristics of the Early Triassic microgastropod fauna indicate prolonged environmental stresses related to the causes of the end-Paleozoic biotic crisis.
10.2307/3515144|Artificial trilobite sclerites may be used as surrogates in flow tank and field experiments to reveal the settling and transport characteristics which affected the deposition of fossil trilobite remains. In this study, epoxy casts were produced of molds taken directly from a fossilized cephalon, several pygidia, and a complete enrolled specimen of the Ordovician trilobite Flexicalymene meeki. The models were cast in a range of densities estimated to subsume that of fresh trilobite exoskeleton. Settling velocity and behavior were determined as the sclerites fell through a column of still water. The cephalon and pygidium always settled in a concave-up orientation. The threshold velocity of transport was tested in a hard-floored flow tank for each sclerite model in both concave-up and concave-down attitudes, in three orientations to the current. For both sclerite types, the concave-down attitude was most stable when either the anterior or side margins faced the current. Enrolled specimens were transported readily at current speeds much lower than those required to move the more stable configurations of either sclerite type. When placed on a fine sand substrate in the stable positions stated above, both types of sclerites were buried by moving sediment without being dislodged by currents of up to 0.5 m/sec. If further work confirms these preliminary findings, trilobite sclerites will be useful as paleocurrent indicators. The hydrodynamic properties of sclerites control their transport and burial; understanding these properties should help clarify related aspects of trilobite taphonomy.
40606503|Stomatal frequencies of fossil-plant species are used to estimate past pCO levels based on the physiological functions of living taxa. There is a demonstrable inverse relationship between increasing pCO and stomatal frequency parameters, in which there is a decrease in both stomatal density (SD) and stomatal index (SI). Concentration of CO is not the only factor known to affect SD and SI values, which are a product of leaf development and expansion, as studies have shown a positive correlation between SD and light intensity. The present study tests the hypothesis that SD and SI are not influenced by a leafs physical orientation relative to the sun during the growing season. Sun leaves of northern red oak, Querem rubra, were collected from trees around the margins of six lakes of the Belgrade Lakes Region, central Maine, United States, in 2007. Lakes in NE-SW, NW-SE, and E-W orientations allowed for sampling of trees exposed to varying light intensities throughout the growing-season day. The SD and SI of each tree were calculated, and statistical comparisons were made between populations exposed to predominant morning or afternoon light intensities for each lake and between populations on lakes of differing orientations. There is no statistically significant difference in either SD or SI between populations growing under different orientations to growing-season sunlight. These data indicate that exposure to various sunlight regimes on opposite sides of a lake does not play a role in the stomatal response as reflected in SD and SI of plants during a single growing season.
10.2307/3515257|Although, the fossil record of naticid gastropod drilling has played an important role in the controversy over predator-prey evolution, little is known about variation of drilling frequencies within single horizons or how predation patterns are influenced by environmental variables. Without an understanding of spatial variation in drilling, temporal patterns in drilling are difficult to interpret. We surveyed 27,554 specimens of molluscs from the Cook Mountain interval (upper middle Eocene) and Jackson Group (late Eocene) of the U.S. Gulf and Atlantic Coastal Plain to document spatial variation in naticid drilling frequencies. The Jackson Group assemblages from the Moodys Branch and Yazoo formations were sampled along a depth gradient in order to compare drilling frequencies to environmental variables within a single climatic zone. There was a statistically significant difference between drilling frequency of the inner to middle shelf Moodys Branch Formation (mean = 8.3%) and the outer shelf Yazoo Formation (mean = 21.2%; chi square = 49.58, P  0.001), but there was no significant bathymetric trend in drilling frequencies among the five assemblages of the Moodys Branch. Drilling frequency was not related to substrate type within the Moodys Branch. Drilling, however, was correlated with species diversity of Moodys Branch assemblages (r = 0.50, P < 0.01). Drilling frequency was significantly correlated with the percentage of naticids in each assemblage (r = 0.77, P < 0.001) and the percentage of certain prey species of the bivalve families Lucinidae and Corbulidae, and the gastropod families Turritellidae and Hipponicidae (r = 0.80, P < 0.001). These preferred species represented 40% of the naticid victims, but only 16% of the assemblages. Cook Mountain assemblages represented marine inner to middle shelf environments from Virginia, Alabama, Louisiana, and Texas. Naticid drilling frequencies of the entire molluscan fauna ranged from 6.8-38.7% with a mean of 22%. In the Cook Mountain, three preferred species (of the families Turritellidae, Lucinidae, and Noetiidae), representing 24% of the total individuals, accounted for 44% of the drilled individuals. As in the Moodys Branch Formation, Cook Mountain assemblages showed a significant correlation between relative abundance of preferred species and drilling frequency of samples (r = 0.585, P < 0.05). The dependence of naticid drilling on the availability of preferred prey species indicates a possible behavioral inflexibility in naticid predation patterns. The Virginia Cook Mountain fauna exhibited significantly greater drilling frequencies (mean = 30.3%, n = 4 samples) than did the Gulf Coast assemblages (mean = 18.0%, n = 11 samples; Mann-Whitney U-test, P < 0.01). This result is consistent with a trend found by some previous workers of an equatorward decrease in naticid drilling.
10.2307/3515552|Living and death assemblages of selected benthic, symbiont-bearing foraminiferal species were compared at a NW-Pacific island slope. Two transects with different morphologies were chosen, one demonstrating decreasing, the other slightly increasing, steepness. Intensities of depth transport were estimated by measuring the differences between distribution parameters of living individuals and empty tests. Three factors were shown to induce depth transport: (1) traction caused by offshore bottom currents or the frequent tropical cyclones that cross the area, (2) slope steepness, and (3) differences in test buoyancies. Due to the depth position of living populations, the combination of these three factors leads to varying displacement intensities and mixing of empty foraminiferal tests. The two investigated larger foraminiferal species with porcelaneous tests living at the shallow slope -the rod-shaped Alveolinella quoyi (d'Orbigny) and the discoid Amphisorus hemprichii Ehrenberg-showed high buoyancy and are transported commonly down slope. Less displacement was found in Heterostegina depressa d'Orbigny, which inhabits the upper slope, and this is due to a lower test buoyancy. The thick-lenticular Nummulites venosus (Fichtel and Moll) and the spherical Baculogypsinoides spinosus Yabe and Hanzawa, both living in deeper regions, are transported less often, while Cycloclypeus carpenteri Brady, with a similar depth distribution, shows a high degree of transport to the deepest zone as the result of high buoyancy. The deepest-living species in this study, Planostegina operculinoides (Hofker), is not transported, but accumulates under conditions of reduced sedimentation. The complex slope topography, combined with the exposure of the coast to tropical storms, leads to deposition of allochthonous specimens from surrounding shallow areas. Specimens from backreef regions are transported into the forereef during waning storms (e.g., Amphisorus hemprichii), while elements of relict sediments are reworked on the deeper slope during these episodic events. Although both factors, in combination with down-slope transport and slope inclination, disguise the clear depth dependence of larger foraminifers as shown by living individuals, representative proportions of the deepest-living species within an association of empty tests allows for the approximation of the upper depth limit.
27670443|We interpret 13 large subcircular or horseshoe-shaped depressions discovered in Late Triassic peritidal carbonate rocks of the Dogna Valley in Udine Province, northeastern Italy, to be reptile nests. These trace fossils show truncation of strata, elevated ridges of massive sediment, and sediment infill within the depression differing in shape and sedimentary structures from the host sediment. The palynological assemblage of a shaly interbed close to the nest layer indicates a Tuvalian age (late Carnian). Archosaurian footprints, produced possibly by aetosaurs, are on a surface 130 cm above the nest-bearing layer. The trackmakers are considered the most probable nest makers.
27670538|Isotopic variation in northern and southern hard clam (quahog) shells is used in studies including paleoecology, paleoclimatology, and archaeology. It is unknown, however, whether species-specific isotopic differences exist. Three genotypesMercenaria mercenaria, M. campechiensis, and their natural hybrid formare found in coastal Florida waters and differentiation of genotypes can be difficult to determine morphologically. This issue may be problematic when using archaeological shells as paleoclimate archives, because genetic analysis cannot be done on such specimens. Their co-occurrence in coastal Florida waters provides a unique opportunity to study whether all three genotypes of modern individuals record the same environmental information preserved as variation in oxygen and stable carbon isotope ratios. A random sample of 49 individuals collected alive at the same time and from the same locality in Pine Island Sound were classified to genotype using allozyme electrophoresis. Three juveniles from each genotype were selected for isotopic analysis to control for ontogenetic effects. Timing of growth increment formation inferred from oxygen isotope ratios reveals similar overall patterns wherein dark (slow growth) increments formed in mid- to late spring and light (fast growth) increments formed in late fall. Results of the mixed model model ANOVA (analysis of variance) indicate that no significant species-related differences exist in the variation of oxygen and carbon isotope ratios, although the Kolmogorov-Smirnov goodness-of-fit test detected a systematic difference among 13C values of M. mercenaria and M. campechiensis comparison and M. mercenaria and the hybrid shell comparison. Any genotype or combination thereof is, thus, suitable for environmental and climate reconstruction using oxygen isotope ratios. The utility of carbon isotope ratios as an environmental proxy, however, remains questionable.
27670322|Macrofauna abundance has been quantified across the Breistroffer interval (OAE 1d, Latest Albian) in the Vocontian basin (southeast France). This interval is characterized by a high abundance of ammonoids showing significant morphologic disparity. Twenty ammonoid genera are recognized and assigned to seven morphostructural groups. The aims of this study are to: (1) interpret abundance variations of ammonoid taxa in terms of taphonomic processes, sedimentary dilution, and paleoenvironmental factors; and (2) discuss the habitat and mode of life of some Late Albian ammonoids with respect to their morphology and abundance variations. Most variations in ammonoid absolute abundance are not the result of post-mortem shell transport. High abundance within the Breistroffer interval is due partly to a low accumulation rate, which is related to a maximum-flooding stage. The different trends observed among ammonoid taxa can be interpreted partly in terms of response to changes in trophic conditions inferred from the study of calcareous nannofossils. Heteromorphs, which are dominant during mesotrophic conditions, could have been more competitive than involute/evolute planispirals (normal coiling) when paleoenvironmental conditions become more unstable. Lechites (orthocone), the most abundant taxon, probably inhabited epipelagic, distal paleoenvironments. This genus, interpreted as a vertical migrant in the water column, would have been able to move up when trophic conditions were good in surface waters, and down in order to avoid oligotrophic surface waters and to exploit food-rich layers in deeper waters. Turrilitoides and Mariella (torticones) may have been quasiplanktic, and inhabited mainly neritic paleoenvironments. These forms could have occupied more distal paleoenvironments when mesotrophic conditions prevailed in the surface water column. Anisoceras and Hamites (quasiplanktic U-shaped heteromorphs) mainly lived in distal, epipelagic habitats, and could have been more competitive compared with the torticones when oligotrophic conditions prevailed in surface waters. Among involute/evolute planispiral ammonoids, Mortoniceras probably had a deep-nektonic mode of life and inhabited the lower part of the epipelagic zone. A stylized panorama of some Late Albian ammonoid habitats is proposed.
27670534|Most paleoecological and paleobiologic studies of the postextinction interval following the end-Permian crisis have been focused on rocks deposited in shallow shelf, open marine settings. Lower Triassic marginal marine environments have not been examined closely but represent a crucial piece of the postextinction puzzle since they provide an end member to which studies of open marine environments can be compared. The Lower Member of the Lower Triassic (Smithian-Spathian) Union Wash Formation is a mixed carbonate-siliciclastic succession deposited in environments ranging from intertidal to lagoonal and provides a glimpse into Early Triassic marginal marine settings and faunas. Fossil components of the member are dominated by echinoid spines and debris, which are interpreted to represent a parautochthonous fossil assemblage concentrated primarily in tidal-dominated distributary channels and as grain-rich mouth bars. This Early Triassic echinoid assemblage affords an opportunity to examine the paleoecology of echinoids during the postextinction interval and to speculate about how the extinction and recovery relate to longterm paleobiological trends. Echinoids of the Lower Member of the Union Wash Formation inhabited environments very proximal to the intertidal zone, and this distribution may have provided a survival mechanism in the wake of the end-Permian mass extinction by allowing echinoids to avoid shelfal stresses such as shallow-water anoxia and euxinia. These shallow-water echinoid forms would likely seed the diversification of all later echinoid taxa, and indeed, all later shelfal and deep-sea echinoids can be traced back to post-Paleozoic shallow-water forebears.
10.2307/3514509|Volcaniclastic sediments proximal to El Chichn volcano (Chiapas, Mexico) preserve the pre-1982 paratropical forest litter and provide an accurate estimate of the species composition and structure of the surrounding forest. Deposition of fine ash, when wet, encrusted leaves, providing an immediate compression-impression flora of the arboreal vegetation. Deposits as close as 3.5 km from the crater were sufficiently fine grained to preserve impressions of high quality. Plant remains, mostly leaves, are horizontally layered and rarely contorted, conditions usually attributed to slow sediment deposition rather than rapid, "event" deposition. The deposits consist of a basal, forest-litter layer preserved in coarse volcaniclastic sediments, and an overlying layer of arboreal leaves, abscissed (separated from the twig) in response to heavy ash fall. Organic deposits are capped by up to 2.5 m of normally graded pumice and airfall lapilli. Plant remains are well preserved 10-20 km from the crater in airfall ash and ash-pumice, 10-15 cm thick. Woody vegetation is accurately reflected in the proximal volcanic deposits. Herbaceous vegetation is more variable in preservation; it is normally buried by coarse volcaniclastics, along with the arboreal litter, and thus has a low preservation potential. Only the autochthonous forest-floor litter preserves an accurate representation of the local flora: both herbaceous and woody. Recognition of such organic layers, possibly by superpositional relationships with soil horizons, is critical to interpretation of the succession of plants on volcanic substrates. The stratified nature of terrestrial organic deposits resulting from a single eruptive sequence suggests caution be exercised in interpreting fossiliferous volcaniclastics; multiple fossil horizons may reflect a single depositional event rather than a succession of assemblages in an area through time.
10.2307/3515048|The exquisite preservation of fossil plant material achieved by charcoalification enables exceptionally detailed analyses. However, preservation by charcoal is not without bias. This study explores the bias introduced by non-uniform size change during charcoalification of the reproductive organs of seed plants. Carpels, stamens and petals from seven species of angiosperms, and ovulate structures from two species of gymnosperms, were experimentally charcoalified at 325-350 C for two hours and change in length, width or diameter recorded. Statistical tests using percent size reduction show that carpels underwent, with one exception, significantly less change relative to other structures of the same species ( = 0.05). Overall mean shrinkage varies between 14-32% for carpels, 19-41 % for stamens, and 24-47% for petals. The ovulate structures of gymnosperms fall within the range of angiosperm carpels. Examination of observed change as a function of duration of charcoalification showed increasing shrinkage with time and no plateau after six hours. The results of the test for effect of flower-maturity could not rule out such an effect as contributing to variation in the results. Qualitative observations indicate that additional biases, including site-specific damage, also act on these structures prior to fossilization. Because non-uniform shrinkage of reproductive structures can be documented, the absolute sizes of charcoalified reproductive organs provide potentially misleading information for reconstructions or taxonomic studies, and it is unlikely that rescaling factors could be usefully applied. However, relative sizes of fossilized organs, in terms of one organ being larger than another, appear to record information more faithfully.
10.2307/3514559|Prostrate trees are common features of fossil forest litters, and are frequently preserved as mud-casts. Specimens of Carboniferous mud-cast trees and a mud-filled "incipient cast" of a Holocene Taxodium have been investigated to determine the biostratinomic processes responsible for their formation. These processes are complex. Hollowing of tree trunks may take place during life or by degradation after death. Once the trunk has fallen, the hollow cavity is supported by surrounding wood and/or bark tissues and acts as a conduit for sediment-laden waters. Leaf litter may be preserved on bedding surfaces. The infilling sequence of horizontal, parallel bedded, fine-grained sediment is deposited from suspended load during multiple overbank flooding events. These results differ from experimentally produced "pith casts" in which the sediment grain size is of fine sand. In Holocene specimens, alluvial mud within the log may provide a substrate for infaunal invertebrates. No evidence of infaunal burrowing in Carboniferous analogues exists.
10.2307/3515408|Cyclostome and cheilostome bryozoans diversified at different times and consequently in different ecological contexts. Cyclostomes began their rebound from a Permo-Triassic bottleneck in the early Jurassic, prior to increases in bioturbation, durophagous predation, and other ecological changes of the Mesozoic Marine Revolution. Cheilostomes did not appear until the latest Jurassic and rapid diversification began only in the mid-Cretaceous, when the Mesozoic Revolution was well under way. We compare the radiations of these two groups to test for similarities in the within-group patterns of origin of biologically significant novelties, and for between-group differences that might be due to ecological context or group attributes. As seen for other invertebrate taxa, within-group novelties were not concentrated in onshore settings, in contrast to origination patterns at the ordinal level. Differences in environment of first occurrence and rapidity of novelty acquisition were not obviously related to the Mesozoic Revolution, or to the distinction between zooid- and colony-level characters. The contrast in novelty acquisition rates may partly reflect group-specific constraints. In cyclostomes, novelties appeared rather evenly over 100 Ma, whereas in cheilostomes many of the novelties appeared in the Late Albian-Early Cenomanian during a period of rapid diversification. Despite a slow start (Late Jurassic-mid Cretaceous), the cheilostome radiation entered an explosive phase that may characterize successful establishment of groups founded late in the Phanerozoic.
10.2307/3514601|The graphic correlation technique of Shaw (1964) is not restricted to biostratigraphic applications. Supplemented graphic correlation (SGC) expands the original technique to include nonunique events (log patterns) to add to the understanding of the geologic history of an area. Nonunique events are evaluated in light of the biostratigraphic data and may be used to refine correlations provided that (1) the investigator has reason to believe that the log patterns respond to time-significant phenomena over the areal extent of the specific problem at hand, and (2) all nonunique events to be considered are tested for geologic reasonableness before they are used. Dinocyst and acritarch occurrence data and single-point resistance electric logs from three Paleocene to Eocene cores in the Virginia Coastal Plain illustrate the method. The two western cores show similar geologic histories, but the thickness in the northernmost core is approximately 30% greater. SGC reveals four episodes of deposition in the easternmost core relative to the western cores. During late Paleocene time, relative accumulation rates increased in an easterly direction. A major change in sediment source and supply occurred in early Eocene time when relative accumulation rates increased to the north. Graphic correlation combining biostratigraphic events and time-significant log-type data can increase resolution in correlation. Possible correlations are tested and refined during the graphic procedure and multiple lines of evidence are used to produce geologically reasonable, and informative, results.
10.2307/3515367|Neoproterozoic to subtrilobite Cambrian strata in the Mackenzie Mountains, Canada, provide a test case for the current paradigm of evolutionary stages in the development of the early infauna. Three predominantly siliciclastic formations (Ingta, Backbone Ranges, and Vampire formations) collectively exhibit 13 facies associations representing nonmarine to distal shelf environments, and can be subdivided into 18 simple sequences, each of 800,000-1,000,000 years duration. Trace fossil occurrences were digitized at the level of simple sequences and plotted on a matrix with facies associations (environment) on the x-axis and simple sequences (time) on the y-axis. This analysis shows that evolution was a first-order control on trace fossil distribution, and that environmental factors exerted an important second-order control. Trace fossils were most abundant in normal marine environments and less so in marginal-marine settings with fluctuating or brackish salinity. Eolian and fresh-water deposits were barren, presumably because animals able to tolerate these conditions had not evolved. Turbulence excluded organisms from shoreface environments. Several biostratigraphically important ichnotaxa (e.g., Treptichnus and Rusophycus), however, show broad environmental tolerance across the marine shelf. Taphonomic factors led to fine preservation in interbedded sandstone-mudstone facies, but to diagenetic obliteration of trace fossils in most carbonate facies. Trace fossils provide a consistent indicator of the Neoproterozoic-Cambrian boundary. Four evolutionary zones can be recognized: (I) Simple burrows, (II) Treptichnus pedum Zone, (III) Rusophycus avalonensis Zone, and (TV) Cruziana tenella Zone. Global biostratigraphic and chemostratigraphic correlations imply that Zone I is terminal Neoproterozoic and the overlying three zones subtrilobite Cambrian in age. These zones are present in the Newfoundland Neoproterozoic-Cambrian boundary GSSP, the East European Platform, and elsewhere.
27670417|Associations of fossil genera and species commonly display repeated and predictable patterns of change in stratigraphic sections. These changes exhibit some analogies with the phenomenon of ecological succession but are longer-term allogenic temporal changes, occurring over time scales of tens to hundreds of thousands of years, that should be referred to as biotic (faunal-floral) replacement. Habitat tracking is one of a suite of possible mechanisms of biotic replacement, but one that may be important in certain marine settings. Evidence of tracking includes (1) recurrence of similar replacement series of differing age; (2) mirroring of vertical replacement of faunas by lateral gradients of species associations along single time planes; (3) the occurrence of similar gradient transects at different time planes; (4) the correlatability of highs and lows of quantitative faunal curves (e.g., variations of detrended correspondence analysis scores) at different localities despite offsets of absolute scores; and (5) the high fidelity recurrence of stenotopic species in particular associations representing narrowly defined environments. The degree of ecological fidelity (e.g., similarity of species richness, guild structure) that is maintained during tracking is variable. Recurrent assemblages in different cycles, separated by as much as several million years, can be very similar in terms of species composition and trophic structure. Common species, however, may show significant differences in rank and relative abundances. This evidence indicates individualistic tracking of preferred habitat by various species. In shallow-shelf and ramp settings, sea-level fluctuations may produce approximately symmetrical patterns of biotic replacement where biofacies are arrayed typically in elongate belts parallel to depositional strike. Asymmetries, however, are common and may result from variations in sediment supply during sea-level fluctuation. Hence, the low siliciclastic input typical of transgressions predictably favors those organisms that require lower sedimentation or turbidity and perhaps firmgrounds to hardgrounds, whereas the regressive half cycle at analogous depths favors more eurytopic organisms that tolerate or prefer higher sedimentation or turbidity. The phenomenon of tracking may be of considerable importance in evolutionary paleoecology. Tracking implies that species commonly respond to long-term physical changes, not by adaptation, but primarily by migration of species to preferred habitats, if the rate or magnitude of environmental change is not too great. Provided that the same basic environment existed through time, despite lateral shifting by up to hundreds of kilometers, most species of benthic invertebrates were capable of surviving with little or no evolutionary change. Tracking may be the primary basis of patterns of morphological stasis, as well as relative stability in biofacies richness, composition, and trophic structure.
25835630|Stratal geometries, cyclical stacking patterns, and taphonomic analysis of the Aaron Scott Quarry in the Jurassic Morrison Formation indicate that sediments accumulated within a prograding fluvio-deltaic lacustrine system. Sediments were deposited during the progressive fill of a large lake. Stratal geometries and stacking patterns display relationships similar to larger-scale deltaic sequences caused by fluctuations in base level. Stratigraphic, paleontologic, and sedimentologic analysis indicates that water-volume-driven, base-level changes were responsible for the accumulation and preservation of the assemblage. The assemblage accumulated during a lowering of base level during the late stages of an overall fall caused by drought and was buried by a rapid rise at the end of the drought. Fluvio-deltaic lake fill consists of numerous off-lapping beds of sparsely bioturbated, coarsening-upward mudstone capped by thin, bioturbated silty mudstones. Erosional surfaces dip to the west and cut older mudstone parasequences. Retrogradation, aggradation, and progradation of strata typify stratigraphic trends above the erosion surface. Coarse braided stream sands cap off successive sequences as accommodation is filled prior to the next lowstand and sequence boundary incisement. The quarry is a large, taxonomically diverse deposit formed by the concentration of animals at the margins of a lake during a drought. Animals congregated near the banks as smaller watering holes dried. Bone locations and orientations indicate reworking by fluvial and wave currents. Vertical preservational trends indicate accumulation over a period of years. Trace fossil, lake invertebrate distributions, and sedimentological evidence indicate that periodic establishment of oxygen stratification within lake waters may have contributed to conditions favorable for bone preservation.
41317436|Robust isotopic reconstructions of climate, elevation, and biology require a reasonable capture of the range of isotopic variability across a paleolandscape. Here, we illustrate how integrating multiple proxies derived from a variety of paleoenvironments aids in this effort. We determined O and C values from lake and soil carbonates, unionid shells, gar scales, and crocodile teeth from multiple depositional environments (lakes, soils, ponds, streams, and large rivers) spanning a 300 km proximal-to-distal transect within the Late Cretaceous foreland basin of Montana. Two major patterns emerge. First, quiet water environments display higher O and lower C values than large rivers, which indicates greater input from local precipitation compared to highaltitude runoff, and a relatively larger contribution of degraded vegetative matter to the dissolved inorganic carbon load. Second, proxies with seasonal biases toward late spring and summer growth display lower O and C values in the basin proximal setting compared to the distal coastal setting, which is linked to the rainout history of vapor masses moving across the foreland basin. Overall these isotopic patterns mirror those in modern catchments, support hypotheses of monsoonal rainfall within the basin, and suggest a hypsometric mean elevation of ~2.6 km within the Sevier orogenic belt. Furthermore, our results indicate a potential to subdivide freshwater paleoecosystems to refine paleobiologic studies of habitat preference and migration patterns.
10.2307/3515383|Questions concerning the application of established biofacies models to mid-Cretaceous black shales prompted a study of diversity characteristics in a fauna from the Late Cenomanian Hartland Shale Member, Western Interior basin. Numerical faunal data are used to assess species abundance patterns, and a new method of analyzing diversity is introduced that incorporates species richness, Shannon index, and equitability into a single plot. In addition, numerical simulations designed to emulate the sampling of species-abundance distributions are used to improve data interpretation. The study illustrates how measured diversity results from the combination of primary ecological controls and sampling effects. Proximal offshore assemblages are characterized by high diversity and log series species-abundance patterns, interpreted as truncated (incompletely sampled) log-normal distributions. Primary ecological controls include variable physical / chemical parameters, biological factors such as predation and competition, and intermediate disturbance frequency. Distal offshore assemblages are characterized by low diversity with patterns of species abundance resembling geometric series. These are interpreted as truncated log-series distributions (sampling effect) that reflect dominance of multiple opportunists, abundant resources in a dysoxic environment, and high disturbance frequency. The data are used to develop an ecological model for diversity levels in basinal black shale facies based on the interplay of recruitment, growth rate, tolerance to low oxygen and sulphide, and disturbance frequency (due to fluctuations of the redox boundary). Although certain taxa (chiefly Inoceramidae) evolved highly opportunistic life strategies to exploit basinal paleoenvironments, it was the unpredictable interaction of these four factors that determined diversity patterns. Analysis of Hartland Shale biofacies illustrates the difficulties in applying a strictly linear relationship between paleo-oxygen levels and diversity.
40606459|Cyanobacterial calcification is promoted by CO -concentrating mechanisms (CCMs) developed in response to photosynthetic carbon limitation.Changes in atmospheric composition (CO fall, O rise) near the Devonian-Mississippian transition (ca. 360 Ma) were sufficiently large to induce CCMs in cyanobacteria. Cyanobacterial sheath calcification significantly increased during the Mississippian, ca. 325-355 Ma. It is proposed that these atmospheric changes triggered cyanobacteria to induce CCMspreviously developed during a large CO decline in the Proterozoicand that this promoted their calcification. CCMs in phytoplankton stimulate primary productivity by increasing photosynthetic efficiency and ameliorating carbon limitation. Phytoplankton community restructuring in favor of groups that possessed effective CCMs but had poor body-fossil records, such as picoplanktic cyanobacteria, could account for Late Devonian acritarch decline and the subsequent apparent scarcity of phytoplankton in the late Paleozoic (the so-called phytoplankton blackout). This is supported by biomarkers indicating an increase in cyanobacteria at the Devonian-Mississippian transition and by carbon isotope values and black shale deposition that, despite acritarch decline, reflect increased primary productivity. The Mississippian episode of cyanobacterial calcification was relatively short lived. Calcification declined ca. 325 Ma, before the end of the Mississippian, as a continued decline in CO lowered seawater carbonate saturation. The induction of cyanobacterial CCMs, triggered by Late Devonian change to a relatively low CO and high O atmosphere, has probably persisted to the present day, but well-developed calcification in marine cyanobacteria has been restricted to intervals of elevated carbonate saturation state.
10.2307/3514544|The Early Mississippian Appalachian foreland basin was oxygen deficient. The Price Formation constitutes a deltaic sedimentary wedge that prograded westward into the foreland basin following a major transgression. Shallow-shelf facies are preserved in north-central West Virginia (Riddlesburg Shale Member) and basinal facies are preserved farther south (Sunbury Shale Member). An overturned section near Bluefield preserves basinal submarine fan, fan-slope and outer-shelf facies that grade upsection to shoreline facies. High organic contents in outer shelf shales and abundant, large phosphate nodules indicate that upwelling took place offshore of the Price deltaic complex. A paleodepth of 150 m can be estimated for the Sunbury Shale based on stratigraphic thickness at the Bluefield section. The lateral and vertical distribution of oxygen-deficient bottom water was controlled by surficial wave and current mixing in the aerobic layer that extended to depths of approximately 60-75 m. Distributary channel-fill facies are not preserved in the Bluefield sequence and significant clastic influx and dilution of the density-stratified water column did not occur in the area. Abundant and diverse deposit-feeding and grazing traces of the Nereites Ichnofacies occur in outer shelf silty shales and sandstone tempestites. The basin-to-shoreline facies transition at Bluefield is paralleled by gradation from the Nereites to the Skolithos Ichnofacies with no transitional Cruziana Ichnofacies between. Oxygen-deficient bottom water appears to have been limiting to trace-makers with diverse ethologies characteristic of the Cruziana Ichnofacies. R-mode and Q-mode cluster analyses, minimum spanning trees and multidimensional scaling have been used to define environmental gradients expressed by trace fossils from the Bluefield section and in a larger data set comprising the entire Price Formation. Cluster analysis has defined two major trace-fossil assemblages in the Price that constitute Cruziana and Nereites Ichnofacies. A Skolithos Ichnofacies is defined by ichnogenera excluded from the two major assemblages.
10.2307/3514543|A spectrum of distal storm "event" deposits, formed below normal wave base, has been recognized within shelly mudstones of the Middle Devonian Hamilton Group of western and central New York. Within this oxygen-stratified basin, patterns of storm winnowing, rapid mud deposition, and extended nondepositional periods were critical to both the establishment and preservation of the benthic fauna. Winnowing and storm mud deposition had contrasting effects on substrate character, and therefore on benthic faunal composition, through the process of taphonomic feedback. The formation of winnowed shell lags provided firm, stable substrates for colonization by attached epifaunal suspension feeders otherwise excluded by a fluid muddy substrate. More proximal shell beds were covered and re-exposed several times resulting in the telescoping of both infaunal and epifaunal communities onto a single horizon. Thin mud pulses (~1 cm thick) caused episodic mortality and interruptions of growth. Influx of muds up to 10 cm thick smothered suspension feeding communities resulting in their excellent in situ preservation, and their sudden replacement by infaunal and soft substrate adapted epifaunal organisms. Where shell pavements were absent, muddy substrates became colonized by scattered clusters of tolerant epifaunal species periodically smothered by thin storm mud layers. The oxygen content of the bottom waters, as well as turbulence and nutrient availability, probably determined the ecologie potential of the benthic environment for any given bathymetric zone. However, storm deposition, because of its effect on substrate, controlled the degree to which that potential was realized.
20173023|The taphonomy of assemblages of disarticulated remains of marine vertebrates is not well studied. Examination of a Middle Pennsylvanian chondrichthyan assemblage from Kohl's Ranch, Naco Formation, central Arizona, contributes to knowledge of such assemblages and reveals a complex taphonomic history. This vertebrate assemblage is restricted to two thin horizons associated with a concentration of disarticulated and tightly packed invertebrates. The vertebrate specimens are associated with phosphatic internal molds of molluscs and bryozoans. Most vertebrate specimens show abrasion. Several lines of evidence suggest that the specimens were abraded in a nearshore wave environment and subsequently transported offshore by a storm surge, where they were incorporated into an environmentally condensed assemblage. In particular, the presence of abrasion, a concentrated skeletal assemblage, significant amounts of siliciclastic sand, presence of intraclasts, phosphatic molds, and a basal lithologic discontinuity support this hypothesis; similar characteristics are found in many bone beds in the fossil record. To test whether wave-dominated nearshore marine environments are capable of abrading vertebrate teeth, modern elasmobranch teeth (Odontaspis and Myliobatis) were placed in an experimentally simulated abrasive environment of fine siliciclastic sand. Results indicate that progressive degradation of specimens by abrasion and cracking occurs as the duration of abrasion increases. Abrasion occurs along the edges of both the crown and root, and cracking proliferates across the surface of the crown. These data confirm that wave-dominated marine environments can progressively abrade vertebrate teeth, and are consistent with the taphonomic hypothesis presented for the Kohl's Ranch vertebrate assemblage.
10.2307/3514869|Fourteen types of palynodebris have been identified in Middle Miocene reservoir sediments from the Niger Delta. They include palynomorphs, cuticle, parenchyma, resins, black debris, woody fragments and degraded components. The palynodebris types were interpreted by Principal Components Analysis and Average Linkage Cluster Analysis. Four assemblages of samples emerged and they have been grouped into two palynofacies associations, A/C and B/D, because of their correlation with mudstone and muddy heterolithic lithofacies and sandstone lithofacies, respectively. The significant palynodebris components are black debris, parenchyma, resins and amorphous organic matter. The size, shape and texture of all the components were integrated with sedimentological features, palynomorph and foraminiferal assemblages to recognize seven, possibly eight, deltaic sub-environments of deposition in the reservoir. Mudstones and muddy heteroliths from low energy depositional environments are characterized by small-sized, lath-shaped woody debris, and high concentration of buoyant components such as palynomorphs, cuticles and degraded bundles. The sandstones contain larger and more equidimensional woody fragments. These sediments are also richer in black debris which are believed to be a function of exposure to oxidizing conditions for a longer period of time. Parenchyma and resins, though rare, are characteristic of distributary channel-fill sandstones.
3515497|Brachiopods were one of the most diverse groups of reef-dwellers during the Paleozoic, and their degree of specialization for reef habitats provides an important way of assessing the ecologic complexity in reef communities. Silurian (Wenlockian) reef brachiopods in Gotland and Wisconsin are compared to level-bottom brachiopods in Gotland, Wisconsin, and the Welsh Borderland. The reef-level-bottom comparisons are made at the level of single bulk samples, as combined groups of samples from single reefs and from single level-bottom communities, and as combined groups of samples from several reefs that occupy the same stratigraphic horizon. Species diversity of reef brachiopods is higher than that of level-bottom brachiopods, but the amount of this difference decreases from the scale of entire reefs to the scale of single samples, where Shannon indices (H') and rarefaction curves of reef and level-bottom samples commonly overlap. In terms of species richness, maximum reef values reach 44 species (n = 3452 individuals), while maximum level-bottom values reach 32 species (n = 7732 individuals). Cluster analysis separates associations of reef and level-bottom brachiopods, but there is also some compositional overlap of reef and level-bottom samples. Although the reefs contain more pedunculate brachiopods and fewer strophic, free-lying brachiopods than level bottoms, the reef brachiopods include no morphotypes or genera that are not also known from the level bottom. Wenlockian reef brachiopods in Gotland and Wisconsin were open surface dwellers with very close taxonomic, functional, and ecologic ties to level-bottom communities. As such, they indicate very similar levels of ecologic complexity between reef and high-diversity level-bottom communities. Cryptic reef brachiopods are known from the Silurian, but appear to have been rare. Brachiopods did not include common reef specialists until the Late Paleozoic. The slow pace of brachiopod specialization for reefs and the very close resemblance of Silurian reef and level-bottom brachiopods reflect the ecologic simplicity and long-term diversity plateau of the Paleozoic evolutionary fauna.
3515169|The sedimentary record of Ocean Drilling Program's Core 625B (northeast Gulf of Mexico) contains significant unconformities that represent a record of sea-level change during the Pleistocene. The core may thus serve as a standard for timing of sea-level changes of the western Gulf, the stratigraphic record of which has been distorted by salt and shale tectonics. Utilizing primarily relative abundances of the warm-water Globorotalia menardii complex and cool (temperate)-water G. inflata, we have subdivided the pre-zone W Pleistocene of Core 625B into 17 subzones, resulting in an average duration of approximately 100,000 years per unit. The subzones are recognizable not only in other cores [Eureka Core E67-135 (northeast Gulf of Mexico), DSDP Core 502B (Colombia Basin, Caribbean Sea) and V16-205 (tropical Atlantic)], but also in cuttings from the industrial well Garden Banks Block 412 Unocal #1 (western Gulf of Mexico). Based on graphic correlation, subzonal boundaries are largely coeval between sites, and can provide high-resolution biostratigraphic subdivision of the Pleistocene of industrial wells on an operational (day-to-day) basis. Moreover, the subzonation reveals changes in sediment accumulation rate that reflect sequence boundaries at the Zone Y/X (0.09 Ma), W/V1 (0.2 Ma), V2/V3 (0.4 Ma), U/T (0.525-0.620 Ma), T3/T4 (0.7-0.9 Ma), T4/S1 (1.0 Ma), S2/S3-S3/R1 (1.2 Ma), R2/R3-R3/Q1 (1.4-1.5 Ma), and Q2/P-P/Pliocene (1.8-1.9 Ma) boundaries, and a regionally condensed section in Subzone R1 (1.3 Ma). Our age assignments for ecozone-based sequence boundaries are in substantial agreement with those of previous workers. Also, the subzonation delineates anomalous paleotops that are reworked, erosionally truncated at sequence boundaries, or delta-depressed as a result of localized sediment influx.
10.2307/3514797|We constructed stable isotope profiles for three specimens of the gastropod Strombus from localities on the Pacific coast of Panama, the Caribbean coast of Panama, and the eastern coast of Florida. The three shells belong to individuals from two conspecific populations and a closely related species. All are from very shallow water (<10 m deep). Strong contrasts among localities in seasonal temperature, salinity, and upwelling are apparent in the isotope profiles. The Pacific shell profile exhibits pronounced variation in <sup>18</sup>O, corresponding to strong seasonal variation in temperature and salinity. At this locality, the coolest months exhibit normal marine salinity, whereas the warmest months are characterized by reduced salinity. Therefore, temperature and salinity-correlated effects reinforce each other, to yield <sup>18</sup>O cycles with an amplitude of <tex-math>$4.5\textperthousand$</tex-math>. By contrast, the <sup>13</sup>C profile for the Pacific shell is relatively flat, probably reflecting the mitigating effects of upwelling, temperature, and runoff on shell <sup>13</sup>C. The Caribbean shell exhibits relatively flat profiles for both <sup>18</sup>O and <sup>13</sup>C, reflecting both reduced seasonal variation in temperature and salinity, and the fact that the influences of these variables on shell isotopic ratios at least partly cancel each other out at this locality. The Florida shell exhibits moderate seasonal variability in both <sup>18</sup>O and <sup>13</sup>C. The significant correlation between <sup>18</sup>O and <sup>13</sup>C in the Florida shell may reflect a temperature-dependent fractionation of carbon isotopes without confounding changes in salinity or upwelling, or a temperature-dependent vital effect related to growth rates, or both.
10.2307/3515339|A primitive variety of Palaeoaplysina laminaeformis Krotov is the primary biotic constituent of a two-meter-thick biostrome in the upper Ely Limestone of western Utah. Associated fusulinaceans and stromatoporoids indicate an early Desmoinesian (Middle Pennsylvanian) age, making it the oldest documented occurrence of non-ancestral Palaeoaplysina in the world. Plate-supported packstone with 40-60% interstitial peloidal mud and silt-size fossil debris constitutes the dominant biostrome rock fabric. During the Late Carboniferous, non-ancestral palaeoaplysinids were restricted to the Ely and Sublett basins of Utah and Idaho, respectively. By Early Permian time, however, they played a significant role in the construction of reefs and biostromes across the entire northern margin of Laurussia.
25835633|Exposures of the middle Cambrian Potsdam Group of northern New York, including the type section, represent a suite of interfingering eolian dune and aquatic deposits that record the activities of early land-going arthropods. Quartz arenites at these exposures are dominantly fine to medium grained, well sorted, and have hematite-coated well-rounded, high-sphericity quartz grains characterized by secondary optically continuous quartz cement overgrowths. Eolian beds are laminated and dominated by m- to dm-scale foresets characterized by large-scale, laterally extensive cross-beds that dip >1534 and contain reverse-graded lamination, en-echelon microfaulted slumps, adhesion structures, and very high ripple-index asymmetric ripples that lie on the foresets with crests that trend downdip. Lower parts of foresets are interpreted as toesets, and contain unusual Diplichnites and Protichnites trackways, which record the uphill, downhill, crest-parallel, and switchback-style movement of arthropods in dry or damp sand. Trackways that ascend dune faces do not possess a medial tail drag, whereas trackways that descend do, and turns of trackways often have deep continuous medial impressions; these features suggest arthropods leaned into the slope when turning downhill in dry sand. More shallowly dipping (415) cross-beds are interpreted as bottomsets. Like nearby intertidal Potsdam deposits, these beds contain Protichnites trackways and Arenicolites burrows. Paleocurrent analyses imply a coastline in which offshore and mixed-direction winds moved dunes seaward. Considered together, these strata record migration of coastal dunes into aquatic environments and flooding and reworking of distal dune bottomsets. In this setting, the same suite of epifaunal arthropods inhabited dry, damp, and aquatic marine environments.
27670567|Determining the selectivities, rates, and key agents of destruction in the post-mortem accumulation of skeletal carbonate is important for understanding the possible bias in the fossil record. This is particularly important for tropical settings, since they are areas of high biodiversity today and in the past. Bivalve death assemblages of the San Blas Archipelago, Caribbean Panama, were collected from ten carbonate and siliciclastic shelf environments, across a range of water depths, sediment compositions, grain sizes, water chemistries, biological communities, and porewater chemistries. Taphonomic signature can differ significantly among environments and individual sites. Shells from reefal carbonates display high levels of encrustation, macroscopic bioerosion, edge rounding, and surface alteration, while those from nonreefal carbonates display microboring, patchy to pervasive chalkiness, and pitting. Shells from siliciclastic sediments display extensive staining, moderate-high patchy surface alteration, occasional encrustation, root etching, and microboring. Patterns of damage in these death assemblages reveal strong differences in taphonomic processes among environments that bear additional testing, in particular contrasts between exposure and burial, carbonate versus siliciclastic, and microstructure and organic content. Death assemblages in siliciclastic sites show moderate-low taphonomic damage, whereas carbonate reefs show high levels of damage, and this contrasts with predictions based on temperate siliciclastics, where seasonal dissolution is intense. The differences observed in taphonomic conditions across the range of environments in this study suggest that the fossil records of these environments should be biased relative to each other.
10.2307/3514674|Microbialites are organosedimentary deposits formed from interaction between benthic microbial communities (BMCs) and detrital or chemical sediments. Processes involved in the formation of calcareous microbialites include trapping and binding of detrital sediment (forming microbial boundstones), inorganic calcification (forming microbial tufa), and biologically influenced calcification (forming microbial framestones). The latter process is probably the result either of chemical changes associated with photosynthesis, or the nucleation of crystals on the polysaccharide-bearing sheaths of the microorganisms. Elevated <sup>13</sup>C values in these crystals may reflect isotopic fractionation associated with the biological setting of the mineralization. Microbialites contrast with other biological sediments in that they are generally not composed of skeletal remains. Once formed, the primary framework of the microbialite becomes the locus of secondary cementation. To distinguish them from bioherms and biostromes of skeletal origin, microbialite buildups are termed "microbial lithoherms" or "microbial lithostromes". The morphogenesis of these structures is a function of environmental influence, biologic and ecologic controls, and processes and rates of lithification. The internal structures of microbialites are best identified by descriptive terms that do not imply a particular origin. Terms used to describe internal structures of microbialites include stromatolitic, thrombolitic, oncolitic (concentrically laminated), spherulitic, and cryptic. Consideration of the term "stromatolite" shows that it is currently used in at least three distinct ways: to refer to products of microbial sedimentation in general, to describe laminated structures of probable microbial origin, or to describe discrete laminated lithified bodies. We recommend that the term be restricted to refer to microbialites with an internal structure of fine, more or less planar laminations. Assessment of published distinctions between thrombolites (microbialites characterised by a clotted internal structure) and stromatolites in the light of some present-day Australian occurrences shows that thrombolites are not always constructed by coccus-dominated BMCs, nor are stromatolites always constructed from filament-dominated BMCs. Although we have observed examples of modern thrombolitic structures forming where biogenically influenced calcification dominates, and stromatolitic structures forming where trapping and binding of either detrital sediment or seasonally precipitated carbonate dominates, both structures could be produced by other processes. It is hoped that the ability to differentiate between the processes involved in the genesis of microbialites will lead to a better understanding of such factors as the morphogenesis of microbialites, their evolution through geologic time, and their potential as tools for biostratigraphic correlation.
10.2307/3514879|Provided sufficient time is available, hardground faunas may develop in mixed siliciclastic-carbonate sandy environments. The coral Goniaraea elegans and the bivalve Crassatella depressa are the dominant members of a Lower Eocene clastic hardground community, which developed on top of a mixed siliciclastic-carbonate sandstone body. Sedimentological data indicate that the sandstone body was formed in a shallow marine, tidally influenced deltaic environment. Hardground formation was initiated by the development of an early carbonate fringe-cement, matrix infiltration and bioturbation. Initially, these processes caused the formation of cemented nodules. When clastic sedimentation ceased long enough, these nodules accreted into laterally continuous concretionary layers. In a few cases only, a pause in sedimentation lasted long enough for settlement of a typical hardground community. The latter hardgrounds can be easily recognized on the basis of paleontological criteria. This fauna is dominated by a Goniaraea-Crassatella assemblage; the associated fauna consists mainly of epifaunal or shallow infaunal species. Sponge boring in C. depressa valves has been intense and gives further evidence for a prolonged cessation of sedimentation in this shallow environment. The boulder shape of the hermatypic coral Goniaraea elegans is an ecomorph adaptation to slightly turbulent, but shallow and clear marine hard bottom environments.
3515813|The rosetted trace fossil Dactyloidites ottoi (Geinitz) commonly has been associated with shallow-water, high-energy marine environments, although detailed sedimentological analyses of the host deposits are unfortunately few. The Aptian-Albian Otoio Formation (Basque-Cantabrian Basin) provides an excellent opportunity to test the paleobathymetric and paleoenvironmental controls on the restricted distribution of D. ottoi. The Otoio Formation records a great variety of shallow-water marine environments, but D. ottoi occurs only in intervals interpreted as fluvial-dominated deltas (Gilbert-type and mouth bar-type deltas). Moreover, detailed facies analysis and geometric relationships of the deltaic deposits suggest the following main controls on the distribution of D. ottoi: (1) paleodepth between 0 and 3 m, quantified from the foreset heights of Gilbert-type deltas; (2) siliciclastic and organic matter-rich sandy substrate; (3) high and discontinuous sedimentation rates; and (4) reduced salinity, responsible for the small size of the trace from the Otoio Formation. These observations are in agreement with published data from other localities.
40960986|The distribution and significance of lingulide brachiopods (Lingularia selwyni Whiteaves) and the trace fossil Lingulichnus in storm-generated, subtidal sandstone beds in the upper Toad and Liard formations of northeastern British Columbia is summarized. Storm-generated sandstone beds from two depositional environments (proximal offshore to offshore transition and lower shoreface) were analyzed. Lingulide material is present in only a small proportion of the storm-generated sandstone beds in the study interval. This distribution is interpreted to reflect the inherent patchiness of infaunal communities both in pre- and post-event communities. Middle Triassic lingulides, like their extant relatives, were capable of (1) surviving storm-induced burial by extending their burrows upward and reconnecting with the sediment-water interface; (2) surviving storm-induced exhumation and transport; and (3) reinhabiting the sediment and reestablishing themselves in new settings after relocation by storms. Depositional environment played a pivotal role in the likelihood that individual lingulides survived storm events. Lingulide faunas deposited in the proximal offshore to offshore transition experienced up to 15%-25% mortality during storm events with most storm survivors (90%-95%) able to reestablish themselves in feeding position at the sediment-water interface. Lingulide faunas deposited in lower shoreface settings experienced considerably higher mortality, with ~60%-75% of the animals dying prior to the end of the storm and a further ~45% surviving the storm events but failing to reestablish themselves at the sediment-water interface in life position. Escape burrowing and reburrowing following exhumation, entrapment, and transport are fundamental adaptations for infauna occupying such dynamic depositional settings as the subtidal littoral zone (neritic zone). This ability was likely integral in the long-term success of lingulides in Phanerozoic marine successions.
40606452|Late Triassic marine vertebrates occur in the Hound Island Volcanics exposed on the eastern shore of Hound Island, southeastern Alaska. This fossil assemblage derived from slope deposits within an intra-arc basin of a volcanic island arc complex. It is associated with the autochthonous Alexander Terrane prior to its northern translation from tropical latitudes to its current latitude. Fossils occur within a 13-m-thick succession of interbedded calcareous shale and volcaniclastic-rich bioclastic limestone. The milestone layers are skeletal (vertebrate and invertebrate) packstones to wackestones and are interpreted as episodic thin-bedded turbidite and debris flow deposits that resulted from redeposition of slope sediments. Forty-seven vertebrate fossils were collected that consist of complete and fragmented cranial and postcranial elements belonging to Eosauropterygia, Thalattosauria, and Ichthyosauria, including the genus Shonisaurus. Bones are frequently disassociated and show predepositional abrasion and breakage. Another less common taphonomic mode is observed, characterized by several large associated elements, representing a single individual, found parallel to bedding and draped by shale. Rare Osteichthyes and Chondrichthyes teeth are also present. Bivalve and conodont fossils indicate a middle Norian age for the assemblage.
40606453|Coupled dual-beam focused ion beam electron microscopy (FIB-EM) has gained popularity across multiple disciplines over the past decade. Widely utilized as a stand-alone instrument for micromachining and metal or insulator deposition in numerous industries, the submicron-scale ion milling and cutting capabilities of FIB-EM systems have been well documented in the materials science literature. These capacities make FIB-EM a powerful tool for in situ, site-specific transmission electron microscopy (TEM) ultrathin foil preparation. Recent advancements in the field-emission guns (FEGs) of FIB-EM systems have provided spatial resolution comparable to that of many high-end scanning electron microscopes (SEM), thus providing enhanced imaging capacities with material deposition and material removal capabilities. More recently, FIB-EM preparation techniques have been applied to geological samples to characterize mineral inclusions, grain boundaries, and microfossils. Here, we demonstrate a novel method for analyzing three-dimensional (3-D) ultrastructures of microfossils using FIB-EM. Our method, FIB-EM nanotomography, consists of sequential ion milling, or cross sectioning, and concurrent SEM imaging. This technique with coupled dual-beam systems allows for real-time, 3-D ultrastructural analysis and compositional mapping with precise site selectivity and may provide new insights in fossil ultrastructures. Using the FIB-EM nanotomography method, we investigated herkomorphic and acanthomorphic acritarchs (organicwalled microfossils) extracted from the 999 Ma Mesoproterozoic Ruyang Group of North China. The 3-D characteristics of such important but controversial acritarch features as processes and vesicularly enclosed central bodies are described. Through these case studies, we demonstrate that FIB-EM nanotomography is a powerful and useful tool for investigating the three-dimensionality of microfossil ultra-and nanostructures.
10.2307/3514799| The carbonate mineralogy of the calcified hydrozoan family Stylasteridae is controlled largely by phylogenetic rather than environmental factors. In a comprehensive study-the first of its kind-of the mineralogy of almost an entire family of calcareous organisms, this finding is well documented. X-ray diffraction analyses of 24 of 25 genera indicate that the skeletons of most species analyzed (54 species in 20 genera) were aragonite; only 7 species in 4 genera were calcite. In addition, several species contained coexisting carbonate polymorphs: 7 calcitic species with traces of aragonite; 1 aragonitic species with traces of calcite; and two species with variable percentages of both polymorphs, which is dependent on the distance from the growing tip. In the last two species, staining and progressive X-ray diffraction analyses showed that the ontogenetically earlier polymorph was calcite, the later aragonite. Mole % magnesium carbonate in calcite ranged from 6.5-10.0, but had no correlation to any known variable. Likewise, no correlation was found between polymorph type and any morphological or environmental variable, except for a generalized temperature effect, wherein genera with calcitic coralla are restricted to waters colder than 13 C; aragonitic coralla occur at temperatures from -1.5 to 30 C. However, there is a close correlation of polymorph type to the generic phylogeny of the family: the calcite polymorph clustered in the center of the cladogram, aragonite occurring on both ends, including the out-groups. Because the correlation of polymorph types to the cladogram was not perfect, it prompted a re-examination of the placement of some of the stylasterid species and genera. Based on its mineralogy, a Tertiary calcitic stylasterid would probably belong to the Errinopsis-Errina-Errinopora species complex and have occurred in water less than 13 C; on the other hand, Tertiary aragonitic stylasterids were broadly distributed. The adaptive value of calcium carbonate polymorphs in Stylasteridae is still poorly understood. 
10.2307/3514775|An underground mine in southern Illinois exposes the spatial composition of the final forest of the Springfield (No. 5) Coal swamp. The area studied is within 600 m of the Galatia channel, contemporaneous deposits that mark the course of a river that periodically flooded the surface of the adjacent peat-forming forest. A nearly pure stand of Sigillaria mamillaris is flanked on the south, the side farthest from the channel by a pteridosperm-calamite vegetation from which Sigillaria is absent. The ecotonal contact of these two assemblages may be as narrow as 2 m wide. On the north end, the side closest to the channel, the Sigillaria stand grades over a 40 m wide ecotone into a mixed lycopod-calamite vegetation with minor pteridosperms. Tree ferns and ground cover are nearly absent from all assemblages. This exposure provides a rare look at the short-term spatial heterogeneity of a Pennsylvanian-age peat-forming forest, and reveals an unexpected degree of patchiness, which is not demonstrable from most outcrop or coal-ball exposures.
10.2307/3514932|Although there have been many studies that have documented various effects of storms in coral reefs, to date there have been no systematic studies of the depth distribution of storm features and few discussions of the potential for preservation of evidence of storm activity in reefs. After hurricane Gilbert and tropical storm Joan passed through the Caribbean late in 1988, an opportunity became available to study storm features and to relate them to water depth in the leeward reefs of the southern Caribbean island of Bonaire. In January 1989, sixty indicators of storm impact on the reefs of Bonaire were found over the depth range 1.5 m to 37 m at 5 localities. These are grouped in 3 broad categories, comprising effects on sediment, effects on reef-dwelling organisms, and the deposition of terrestrial vegetation on the reef. Damage to the reef consisted of direct damage due primarily to wave impact and surge, and indirect damage by secondary factors such as burial by sediment. The evidence of direct physical damage was pronounced in the shallow parts of the reef, and indirect damage dominated in the middle and deeper parts of the reef. Taking all storm features together 3 to 4 months after the storms, the greatest number of storm-related features (66%) was in the 11 m to 20 m depth range, so that although during the storms the greatest physical damage to the reef was in the shallower parts, the post-storm distribution of identifiable storm-related features did not reflect this. The depth distribution of potentially preservable storm features (45% of the total) is almost the same as the depth distribution of all storm features. However, the proportion of potentially preservable features is greatest in the shallowest (83%) and deepest (60%) parts of the reef. Therefore, following a short period of adjustment after storms Gilbert and Joan: 1) the remaining stor-mrelated features were not evenly distributed with respect to depth, 2) the greatest number of storm-related features remaining were in intermediate water depths, 3) the greatest number of potentially preservable storm features were also in intermediate depths.
40865408|The large euthycarcinoid arthropod Mictomerus melochevillensis from the middle Cambrian-Furongian Potsdam Group of Quebec occurs as threedimensional casts at the end of Cruziana   and Didymaulichus-Uke trace fossils. This association provides a rare opportunity to test functional morphological hypotheses about these animals, it provides a framework for understanding how arthropods can be sand-cast in three dimensions, and it suggests that euthycarcinoids may have burrowed into mud as an antidesiccation strategy. In the coeval Elk Mound Group of Wisconsin, the phyllocarid arthropod Arenosicaris inflata occurs on the same beds as Cruziana-like and Rusophycus traces; together with morphologically similar ropelike traces, they are interpreted as having been produced by phyllocarids. These traces preserve the earliest known ethological evidence of phyllocarid crustaceans, and imply that Cambrian phyllocarids employed antidesiccation and possibly feeding strategies still used by modern intertidal leptostracan phyllocarids.
10.2307/3514675|Newly discovered Curvolithus-rich trace-fossil assemblages in fan-delta deposits of the Pennsylvanian Minturn Formation of Colorado are remarkably similar to several other Carboniferous deltaic ichnofaunas, as well as those from Jurassic fan-delta environments and other marginal-marine deposits with fresh-water influence. The Minturn trace fossils comprise the type assemblage of the Curvolithus ichnofacies, dominated by infaunal locomotion-feeding activity in environments characterized by relatively rapid deposition of sandy sediment exceeding physical reworking. The ichnofacies also occurs in sandy, low-energy, open-shelf environments. Thus, the ichnofacies is a paleo-energy and paleo-depositional rate indicator, and we predict that its occurrence in strongly localized deltaic and nearshore sandy facies recurs throughout the Phanerozoic.
10.2307/3515243|We constructed stable isotope profiles for 16 Recent venerid bivalve shells from four environmental regions in the eastern tropical Pacific and the southwestern Caribbean. The environments sampled were: 1) the Gulf of Chiriqui, a nonupwelling region in the eastern Pacific; 2) Panama Bay, an upwelling region in the eastern Pacific; 3) the Caribbean non-upwelling region of northern Panama and northwestern Colombia west of Cartegena; and 4) the Caribbean upwelling region of northern Colombia east of Cartagena and the northern Gulf of Venezuela. The four environments are generally well-characterized by the shell profiles. In particular, the <sup>18</sup>O range is greatest in upwelling environments, and, to a lesser extent, is greater in the eastern Pacific than in the Caribbean. The <sup>13</sup>C record by itself is much less useful than the <sup>18</sup>O record, but examining <sup>18</sup>O and <sup>13</sup>C in combination adds important discriminatory information to environmental comparisons. A significant positive correlation between <sup>18</sup>O and <sup>13</sup>C is present in most Caribbean shells and in the single Pacific non-upwelling shell. All shells from the Pacific upwelling region of Panama Bay exhibit relatively fiat <sup>13</sup>C profiles and lack significant correlations between <sup>18</sup>O and <sup>13</sup>C. We compared observed values of <sup>18</sup>O with "predicted" values calculated from temperature and salinity data from each environment. Observed patterns of <sup>18</sup>O minima and maxima along bathymetric gradients generally parallel those predicted for these shells, but absolute values of observed <sup>18</sup>O are lower than predicted values. Maximum and minimum values of <sup>18</sup>O generally increase with increasing depth, except in the non-upwelling region of northern Panama.
10.2307/3515303|The timing of collision between the Cretaceous Greater Antilles volcanic arc and the Jurassic-Cretaceous North American passive margin is poorly constrained. Previous age estimates range from Late Cretaceous to late Eocene. This wide range results from uncertainty of tectonic reconstructions, lateral migration of tectonic activity and paucity of accurate age information. We present nannofossil and foraminiferal biostratigraphic data from outcrops and sections in western Cuba, synthesized with previous age information, and propose a latest Paleocene to early Eocene age (nannofossil Zones NP9 to NP13; 50-56 m.a.) for terminal collision in western Cuba. This age estimate is obtained from the biostratigraphy of pre- and syn-collisional sedimentary rocks in the Guaniguanico tectonic unit, part of the original North American Plate, and syn- and post-collisional sedimentary rocks in the Baha Honda and Los Palacios tectonic units, which were part of the Greater Antilles Arc. Our data indicate that the collision took place over 20 m.y. after the extinction of the arc, and, therefore, that these events were unrelated. Most outcrops studied have a limited stratigraphic extent, preventing the delineation of complete zonal units. However, we show that sub-zonal biostratigraphic resolution can be obtained using the presence and absence of numerous non-zonal markers.
10.2307/3514921|Plio-Pleistocene strata of the Petane Group, central Hawke's Bay, New Zealand are composed of alternating fine-grained (silt) and coarsegrained formations (sand, graywacke gravel and coquina), that have resulted from glacio-eustatic sea-level changes. Nine depth-related foraminiferal associations are recognized within these cyclothemic strata, spanning the entire range of inner to outer shelf paleoenvironments. Fine-grained formations are products of sea-level high stands and predominantly contain mid- to outer shelf foraminiferal associations. Inner shelf associations are also common within silt formations, especially within 5 to 10 m thick intervals in advance of the transition to overlying coarse-grained formations. Coarse-grained formations are products of relative sea-level low stands, but are generally too well cemented or contain too few foraminifera to invite detailed study. Those few samples examined are, however, consistent with inner shelf or even estuarine paleoenvironments. The amplitude of sea-level changes necessary to induce the observed shifts in sedimentary facies and foraminiferal associations between sea-level high stands and sea-level low stands was ca. 50 to 100+ m. Transgressive phases of each glacio-eustatic cycle were rapid. Relationships between sedimentary facies and depositional depth as indicated by the associations is imprecise, especially for the upper, shoaling portion of each cyclothem. Biostratigraphic data and the cyclothemic succession also allow an approximate correlation with the oxygen isotope stratigraphic record established from deep-sea cores. The time scale derived from this correlation suggests that a combination of rapid basinal subsidence and high sedimentation rates were required for deposition of cyclothems comprising the Petane Group.
10.2307/3514513|The conventional approach to increased biostratigraphic resolution involves identifying additional datum planes defined by discrete events. Sachs and Hasson (1979) demonstrated that the use of multivariate techniques to refine a conventional "datum-oriented" taxonomic zonal scheme offers no improvement in precision; however, because the characters upon which the zonal boundaries are based often show continuous stratigraphie variation, they offer an opportunity for continuous stratigraphic correlation based on stage of evolution. Morphometric analysis was carried out on two lineages of planktonic foraminifera: (1) the Globorotalia cibaoensis-G. crassaformis lineage, using a reference section from the early Pliocene of the Rio Grande Rise, spanning approximately 2.6 m.y., and (2) the G. concoidea-G. inflata lineage, using a reference section from the late Miocene to Recent from the southwest Pacific, spanning approximately 8 m.y. Stepwise multiple regression of morphological variates generated equations with age-prediction confidence limits (95% confidence) of  165,600 years in the G. crassaformis lineage and  402,900 years in the G. conoidea lineage. (Accuracy is dependent upon calibration of absolute dates in the reference section and our knowledge of sedimentation rates over the measured interval.) Single-equation analog morphocorrelation allows correlation of any sample overlapped by the reference lineage, reducing the need for repeated sampling in a search for discrete events. We demonstrate (1) that analysis of continuous morphologic variation can increase stratigraphic precision with a few carefully chosen variables, and (2) that analog morphocorrelation can yield absolute, rather than relative dates, with quantified error. Any disadvantages inherent in analog morphocorrelation are also found in conventional biostratigraphic techniques, but are usually unquantified and unrecognized.
41317460|A detailed sedimentological and paleontological analysis of the uppermost Miocene (Messinian)-Pliocene boundary at the northern border of the Bajo Segura Basin, southeastern Spain, was carried out in order to describe the evolution of the regional paleocoastline during the Pliocene reflooding of the Mediterranean immediately after the sea-level fall related to the Messinian Salinity Crisis. Multiple trace fossils typical of firm-and hardgrounds were recognized, allowing identification of Glossifungites (two different types), Entobia, and Gnathichnus ichnofacies. Trace-fossil analysis showed that lithology and media consistency exerted considerable control on the development of the different ichnocoenoses and that there was a clear decrease in hydrodynamic energy from a coastal to a shallow-water shelf environment related to progressive sea-level rise. Ichnological and sedimentological data provide evidence that the definitive flooding of the Mediterranean was rapid and synchronous throughout the northern margin of the Bajo Segura Basin. The following model for the Pliocene transgression in the study area is therefore proposed: (1) the marine ingression penetrated along the incised paleovalleys carved as a consequence of the fall in sea level, where the first two Pliocene systems were deposited (P0-P1); (2) during the maximum flooding surface of the transgression, the sea overflowed the margins of the paleovalleys and extended throughout the entire northern margin of the basin; and (3) the third Pliocene system was deposited, forming the lower part of a highstand systems tract (P2).
10.2307/3515092|The Alvarez Hypotheses of 1980, that the earth was hit by a large asteroid or comet 65 million years ago, and that the environmental effects stemming from that impact event brought about the K/T mass extinction, are now accepted by a majority of earth scientists. The questions is, then, what next for paleontological extinction research? I propose that the following topics be explored: 1) Better research on actual killing mechanisms. 2) Deciphering multiple causes. 3) Calibrating the "Kill Curve" of Raup (1990, 1991) relating impact (or crater) size and degree of mass extinction. 4) Following up on disparate extinction hypotheses. 5) Improving sampling methodology, and using some of the lessons or methodologies developed during the K/T debate: (The Signor-Lipps effect, confidence intervals and increased sampling precision or blind sampling programs) on other extinction boundaries. 6) Understanding selectivity: which species live, die, and why. 7) Improving the study of modern day biodiversity by giving it some history, with the goal of understanding the following question: have we entered a new mass extinction episode?
10.2307/3515589|Thirty-five azooxanthellate (non-photosynthetic) corals belonging to 18 species were collected at sites ranging from the Norwegian Sea to the Antarctic and of depths ranging from 10 to 5220 m. All specimens showed distinct, well-defined linear correlations between carbonate oxygen and carbon isotopic composition, with slopes ranging from 0.23 to 0.67 (mean 0.45  0.9) and linear correlation r<sup>2</sup> values that averaged 0.89. These pronounced isotopic disequilibria have, to date, rendered azooxanthellate corals unsuitable for use in paleothermometry. Most, but not all, of the heaviest skeletal <sup>18</sup>O values reached or approached equilibrium. If the isotopically-heavy ends of the <sup>18</sup>O vs <sup>13</sup>C regression lines reliably approximated isotopic equilibrium with seawater, these values could be used to estimate the temperature of the water in which the coral grew. The <sup>13</sup>C values of the heavy ends of each line, however, were always depleted compared to carbon isotopic equilibrium with ambient bicarbonate by varying amounts. Despite the disequilibria, a reliable method for obtaining paleotemperature data was obtained. It was found that, if a <sup>18</sup>O vs <sup>13</sup>C regression line from an individual coral could be generated, the <sup>18</sup>O<sub>arag</sub> value corresponding to <sup>13</sup>C<sub>arag</sub> = <sup>13</sup>C<sub>water</sub> and corrected for <sup>18</sup>O<sub>water</sub> was a linear function of temperature: <sup>18</sup>O = -0.25 T(<sup></sup> C) + 4.97.
27670311|Using a field analysis of Upper Ordovician mollusc-rich faunas of the Cincinnati Arch, this study tests whether the large-scale patterns of Ordovician gastropods and bivalves observed in a companion study are maintained at the finer scales of individual strata and localities, and when utilizing abundance data in addition to taxonomic richness. Non-metric multidimensional scaling and several statistical analyses show that the taxonomic richness and abundance of these classes within samples were significantly negatively correlated, such that bivalve-rich settings were only sparsely inhabited by gastropods and vice versa. There also were important environmental differences between these classes. Gastropods were most dominant in shallow, carbonate-rich, and generally low-turbidity settings. Gastropods also occurred in restricted lagoons, where bivalves were only minor elements. In contrast, bivalves were most dominant in deep subtidal, siliciclastic shales with high levels of turbidity. Both in terms of abundance and taxonomic richness, these results strongly support those observed at the larger scales of paleocontinents and the globe. Taken together, these results argue that, despite similar taxonomical diversification patterns of these classes at the global scale and heterogeneous patterns among paleocontinents and among regions within Laurentia, gastropods and bivalves had quite different, yet unchanging, environmental distributions throughout the Ordovician, and that these classes did not co-occur to a significant degree, either in terms of taxonomic richness or abundance.
40606424|The aim of this study was to determine the paleoecological and paleoenvironmental significance of the trace fossil Macaronichnus segregatis by examining its extant counterpart, feeding burrows of the opheliid polychaete Euzonus, which was periodically sampled on a wavedominated sandy beach on the Pacific coast of Japan from June to December 2006. The distributions of Euzonus and its feeding burrows normal to the shoreline ranged from 5 m to 40 m. The vertical thickness distributions ranged from 32 cm to 123 cm (Euzonus) and from 34 cm to 126 cm (burrows). These parameters increase with decreasing beach-face gradient. The midpoints (median levels) of the vertical distributions invariably occurred near the midforeshore (corresponding to high-tide level). Foreshore width and vertical thickness also increase with decreasing beach-face gradient. These findings suggest that changes in the distributions of Euzonus and its burrows in the midforeshore environment vary with beach morphodynamics. The vertical thickness of M. segregatis-bearing beds may be a behavioral response toand, hence, be indicative ofancient beach morphodynamics. In addition, the consistent occurrence of the midpoint of trace-bearing beds suggests that beds containing M. segregatis might prove useful as an index of midforeshore level.
10.2307/3515385|Experiments to identify taphonomic variables influencing the fossilization of eggs and eggshells in marine environments were carried out using chicken eggs as models. We examined: (1) the recruitment of eggs into the sea by wave and tidal action; (2) the transport of eggshell fragments by simulated turbidity currents; (3) the capacities of whole eggs to withstand hyperbaric pressures; and (4) the fates of eggs placed on and beneath the benthic surface. Eggs placed along a beach during rising tides were quickly recruited into the sea. Once in the water, fresh eggs rolled along the benthic surface to deeper sites, whereas partially dehydrated eggs floated away from shore. Eggshell fragments transported by simulated turbidity currents settled toward the bottom of the resultant turbidites, with the number and size of fragments decreasing as a function of increasing distance from the source. Fresh eggs lowered in the ocean to a depth of 626 m did not fracture. Most eggs placed at or just beneath the benthic surface in a shallow bay remained unbroken for at least 44 days and became infested with epibionts. Paleontologists interested in fossil eggs should not overlook paleomarine sediments as one likely source of these important trace fossils.
40960987|Mammalian teeth are made of extremely hard and durable calcified tissues, which make them superb candidates for fossilization. The enamel crown, the outermost layer in the erupted tooth, precludes most microorganisms from entering into the underlying dentine and cementum, supporting tissues that are more vulnerable to microbial destructive action. Here we report the discovery of a single tooth of the late Eocene (ca. 35 Ma) North American basal lagomorph Megalagus, clearly containing filamentous and occasionally branching microfossils. The remarkably preserved microfossils are most similar to actinomycetes, gram-positive Eubacteria. We argue that these microorganisms were growing during the animal's life and thus document the first known tooth infection in placental mammals. Our findings provide insight into the initial development of mammal-dental pathogen interactions.
10.2307/3514554|Different degrees of transport and reworking impart different physical characteristics to fossiliferous assemblages (= different "taphonomic grades") and reflect different time scales of deposition and accumulation. Well-preserved fossil assemblages (= high taphonomic grade) generally reflect accumulation over short time spans; as taphonomic grade decreases, the time represented by the accumulation of the fossiliferous assemblage increases. The taphonomic grade of a fossil assemblage changes in one direction (high to low) with time, and provides a measure against which paleoecologists can evaluate other aspects of the fauna that may fluctuate through time. Beds of the same taphonomic grade reflect similar depositional histories. Characterizing faunas in terms of their taphonomic grade provides a means by which temporally and spatially disparate faunas may be compared.
10.2307/3514616|Lacustrine sedimentary sequences have tremendous potential for evolutionary studies because 1) the sedimentary record in lakes provides greater resolution than most other continental or marine sequences and 2) the lake environment seems conducive to speciation, as evidenced by the many examples of lacustrine species flocks. In this paper I present distributional data for 26 species of Semionotus in four temporally distinct lake deposits in the Newark Basin (Late Triassic-Early Jurassic). These data suggest that the effect of environmental cyclicity-the repeated cycles of formation and evaporation of lakes in the same basin is not to accumulate species diversity over the long term. Rather, the effect is to decrease diversity when lakes evaporate and, alternately, to provide ecological opportunity during lake expansion, thus allowing the proliferation of species.
27670492|Repeated sequences of carbonate and shale are punctuated by condensed sections of phosphatic conglomerate in the epeiric deposits of the Trans-Saharan Seaway in northeastern Mali. To characterize the taphonomic and depositional setting of these phosphates, a thick Eocene conglomerate from the area of Tamagulelt was targeted for quantitative analysis. Systematic grid sampling demonstrates that nearly all of the clasts are derived from vertebrate sources (bones = 27%, coprolites = 20%, probable coprolites = 53%), and invertebrate body fossils are nearly absent. Bony and cartilaginous fish dominate the bone assemblage, which also includes minor reptilian elements from sea turtles, sea snakes, and dyrosaurid crocodilians. Coprolites are of five distinct varieties, including three spiral forms probably produced by separate fish taxa. Repeated episodes of abrasion and minor bioerosion with modest levels of sorting characterize the taphonomy of the phosphate conglomerate and are consistent with a shallow-marine-to-brackish-water depositional environment between fair-weather and storm-wave base. Early phosphogenesis strongly favored the preservation and lithification of phosphate-rich bones and coprolites, probably during periods of marine transgression and sediment starvation. Combined with evidence from sedimentology, these vertebrate-dominated fossil assemblages appear extensively reworked and highly time averaged as a result of amalgamation and concentration by storm activity during periods of marine transgression.
10.2307/3514456|The Early Pliocene marine faunas of the southeastern United States were distinct from those of the Bahamas and Caribbean, apparently being separated from them by a zone of cool upwelling. Study of the fates of 361 Early Pliocene bivalve species reveals that a regional mass extinction occurred in the Eastern United States beginning in Late Pliocene time, when continental glaciers expanded, and continued into Early Pleistocene time, eliminating perhaps as many as 65% of the Early Pliocene species. Several patterns suggest that refrigeration during intervals of glacial expansion was the primary cause. The 57 bivalve species that have survived from the tropical zone of Florida all range into nontropical zones today: the mass extinction operated as a thermal filter, eliminating all purely tropical species. Endemic Early Pliocene species experienced especially low survivorship (15%) and most of the casualities of these stenothermal forms came early, in Late Pliocene time. A larger percentage of eurythermal Early Pliocene species survived; and most of those that did not, died out relatively late, during cold Early Pleistocene glacial intervals when even Florida became nontropical. Several observations oppose the hypothesis that Pleistocene regressions would have caused heavy extinction even in the absence of refrigeration. Among these are (1) the fact that in the Eastern Pacific Pleistocene extinction was weak even for species endemic to the temperate-warm temperate shelf, which was areally smaller than the shelf of the southeastern United States, and (2) the fact that even Western Atlantic species that were small, abundant, and adapted to muddy conditions suffered heavy losses.
10.2307/3514458|The red coloration of the foraminiferan Homotrema rubrum (Lamarck) is due to the remnants of photosynthetic pigments. The presence of these pigments suggests a symbiotic relationship between Homotrema and some type of alga. This is most probably a green alga, based upon the chlorophyll content (chl a and b) found in the test. Symbiosis is also supported by examination of the carbon isotopic composition, which shows a decrease in the heavy carbon isotope in the foraminiferal carbonate compared to coexisting carbonates. This decrease is due to recycling of photosynthetically produced carbon dioxide from the algal symbiotes existing in Homotrema. These isotopic deviations should exist in the test or shell of all carbonate precipitating host organisms, and can be used to determine possible symbiotic relationships in other organisms, such as Paleozoic corals and fusulinids. The chamber addition in radial alignment and the incorporation in the wall of calcium carbonate inclusions in Homotrema rubrum represent new morphological observations. This test morphology indicates the possibility that symbiosis may also influence test morphology in Homotrema. Similarity of Homotrema to other radial-walled foraminiferans indicates that coevolution of foraminifers and algae resulted in a change to an endosymbiotic life style for the alga and a change in wall structure for the foraminiferan. Coevolution of foraminifers and alga is analogous to the relationship between hermatypic corals and their symbionts, both ecologically and morphologically, and may indicate similar conditions for development.
3515809|Sequence biostratigraphic analyses from five industry wells in the Northern Carnarvon Basin (NCB), Western Australia, are tied to seismic stratigraphic interpretations from a set of 3D and 2D seismic data. Distribution patterns of ~286 benthic and 73 planktonic foraminiferal taxa in side-wall cores and ditch cuttings from Eocene to Pliocene intervals are documented and supplemented with observations of other fossil groups (e.g., fragments of ostracodes, bryozoans, corals, and mollusks) and lithological components such as calcite cement and quartz sand. Preservation of foraminiferal assemblages is extremely variable in latest Eocene to Pliocene stratigraphy, depending upon the location of wells and the interval investigated. Nonetheless, consistent, detectable faunal signals correlate between wells and with prominent seismic horizons and sequences. The late Oligocene to middle Miocene is characterized by deeper-water benthic assemblages dominated by infaunal taxa and a high planktonic abundance. Stratigraphic events in the middle Miocene, including turnover in benthic foraminifera, are interpreted to record a regional flooding event (equivalent to cycle Tejas B (TB) 2.3) at the beginning of the mid-Miocene climatic optimum (~16-14.5 Ma). Following this event, seismically defined geomorphic features include karstification on the shelf and incision on the clinoform front. All wells show a major transition to shallow-water, warm conditions on the shelf in the middle and late Miocene, with benthic assemblages dominated by larger foraminifera. This transition appears higher in more-basinward wells and appears to be a result of progradation. Geomorphic features in the late middle Miocene (~12 Ma) identified from 3D seismic analyses show an intensification of earlier gully formation, resulting in the development of submarine canyons. Detailed analyses of faunal patterns also provide evidence of higher-frequency sea-level fluctuations (0.5-3 Ma), not detected in the seismic stratigraphic patterns.
25835647|A negative stable carbon-isotope excursion (CIE) has been identified at sites across the globe in strata that span the Triassic-Jurassic boundary. Different studies have suggested that this negative CIE could be the result of either a change in vegetation or a massive perturbation in the global carbon cycle at this time. To determine which, 84 hand-picked leaf cuticle fragments from plant macrofossils previously identified to genus level were analyzed for stable carbon-isotope values. The samples were taken from known heights in nine plant beds spanning the RhaetianHettangian (Upper TriassicLower Jurassic) at Astartekleft, East Greenland. We have constructed taxon-specific stable carbon-isotope curves for Gink-goales and Bennettitales and compared these to an existing C curve based on fossil wood from the same section. This study reveals that taxon-specific carbon-isotope curves based on the leaf data from these two seed-plant groups both record the same negative CIE as the fossil wood, despite having different ecological roles and different relative abundances in the section. Correspondence analysis of the macrofossil abundance data, where the plants are considered in their ecological groups, shows that the C values bear no relationship to changes in vegetation. This result further suggests that vegetation change had little role in determining the C values at this time. Considered together, the bulk cuticle and taxon-specific C record indicate that the negative CIE at the Triassic-Jurassic boundary is likely to have been caused by a massive perturbation of the global carbon cycle and not by vegetation change.
10.2307/3515205|During low tide, up to 50% of Mya arenaria valves were observed in the unstable concave-up position on a tidal flat of the Dutch Wadden Sea. These shells were overturned by foraging birds (turnstones, Arenaria interpres L.). During high tide most of these shells are overturned again by the flood current. Turnstones overturned more left than right Mya arenaria valves. This cannot be explained by selectivity of the bird, but left Mya valves have a projecting chondrophore that acts as an anchor in the concave-down position. Therefore, more left than right valves remain on the tidal flat. This, together with turnstone activity, can also explain high left/right ratios in floating and eolian transported Mya shells. Such transport occurs only under exceptional circumstances such as absence of wind and during a gale. Those shells overturned by turnstones are thus most easily transported.
27670562|Climate change has exerted a major influence on the biosphere in historical times, altering the geographic range of many species and elevating the extinction risk in both marine and terrestrial realms. This study investigates marine community change during the major early Permian climatic transition from the late Paleozoic ice age to a largely ice-free greenhouse climate. Quantitative counts of fossil abundance from 71 field assemblages and 15 collections from the literature, spanning the early and middle Permian (SakmarianCapitanian) of the Tasmania, Sydney, and Bowen basins of eastern Australia document substantial changes in the composition of marine communities during SakmarianKungurian postglacial warming. During the last stages of glaciation (Sakmarian), communities were dominated by the brachiopod Trigonotreta and the bivalve Eurydesma, whereas communities from the later greenhouse climate (KungurianGuadalupian) contained abundant productide brachiopods such as Terrakea and Echinalosia. The shift was broadly synchronous at all paleolatitudes within eastern Australia but appears to have occurred first in offshore habitats. Artinskian communities may also have been much more variable than either earlier or later communities. This variability may have been triggered by rapid climate fluctuations, similar to the changes observed in Artinskian tropical terrestrial ecosystems, but it may also stem from sampling a greater number of depositional environments and habitat types. The ultimate fate of the dominant glacial genera differed after they lost dominance, with Eurydesma becoming extinct during climate warming but Trigonotreta persisting at low abundance levels for a much longer time. These results support the theory that climate change most often causes extinctions through indirect paleoecological effects and underscore the important consequences that even gradual, long-term climate change can have in marine ecosystems.
10.2307/3514742|Based on the comparison of Uppermost Permian reefs from the Palaeofusulina zone of Skyros Island (Skiathos series) of Greece, and the Changhsiang Formation of Sichuan, China, major criteria of very late Permian reefs are defined: Reefs are small-scaled stratigraphic reef mounds, composed of lens-like boundstone structures (saccoliths) and a great amount of bioclastic sediment. Relief of the buildups was low. Individual saccoliths are biostromes rather than bioherms. Coarse-grained reef talus is lacking. "Calcisponges" and sclerosponges as well as encrusters (Archaeolithoporella, Tubiphytes) are the principal framing and binding organisms. Taxonomic diversity and biofacies diversity are high. The reefs developed within shallow subtidal inner shelf environments. Latest Permian reefs differ in geometry, dimensions, construction and composition of calcisponge assemblages from earlier Late Permian reefs. There is no evidence for a change in diversity of calcisponge taxa or for a preferred impact of the Permian extinction event on the structure of very late Permian reef communities. The assumption of climate cooling as an explanation for the end-Permian crisis of the reef ecosystem is contradicted by the close association of green algae and reefs.
10.2307/3514646|A log raft (<latex>$>5.1\; km^2$</latex>) covering more than half the surface of Spirit Lake formed as a result of the eruption of Mount St. Helens in 1980. Since then, erect floating stumps have settled to the lake bottom. In August, 1985, side-scan sonar transects covering approximately 0.8% of the lake bottom revealed 154 erect stumps. Ex-trapolation to the entire bottom area indicates that there would be about 19,500 submerged erect stumps. Observations at Spirit Lake suggest that lacustrine envionments receiving trees uprooted by catastrophic events have the potential to preserve accumulations of erect trees that are difficult to distinguish from in situ forests.
20173036|Age-dependent extinction is an observation with important biological implications. Van Valen's Red Queen hypothesis triggered three decades of research testing its primary implication: that age is independent of extinction. In contrast to this, later studies with species-level data have indicated the possible presence of age dependence. Since the formulation of the Red Queen hypothesis, more powerful tests of survivorship models have been developed. This is the first report of the application of the Cox Proportional Hazards model to paleontological data. Planktonic foraminiferal morphospecies allow the taxonomic and precise stratigraphic resolution necessary for the Cox model. As a whole, planktonic foraminiferal morphospecies clearly show age-dependent extinction. In particular, the effect is attributable to the presence of shorter-ranged species (range &lt; 4 myr) following extinction events. These shorter-ranged species also possess tests with unique morphological architecture. The morphological differences are probably epiphenomena of underlying developmental and heterochronic processes of shorter-ranged species that survived various extinction events. Extinction survivors carry developmental and morphological characteristics into postextinction recovery times, and this sets them apart from species populations established independently of extinction events.
10.2307/3515646|Macro-endoliths in coral skeletons on reefs in Phuket, South Thailand, and South Male Atoll, Republic of the Maldives, could be separated into live- and dead-coral varieties, which had different origins and created different structures in the host skeletons. Dead coral surfaces were bored by active endoliths (euendoliths), which used mechanical and chemical means to create complex, branched and sinuous cavities that cross-cut the growth structure of the coral skeletons. Living coral was attacked mainly by passive endoliths (paraendoliths and cryptoendoliths) that embedded themselves in the live tissue and allowed the coral skeleton to grow up around them, creating straight, simple holes that paralleled the growth direction of the coral. The association of euendoliths with dead coral surfaces and para- and cryptoendoliths with live coral surfaces allows the interpretation of the relative relief of fossil bored coral colonies above soft sediment, and the relative length of time they were exposed to circulating seawater prior to burial.
10.2307/3515496|Early Neoproterozoic reefs of the Little Dal Group, Northwest Territories, are built by stromatolites and thrombolites containing calcified filamentous cyanobacteria and interstitial cement. Micritic and microcrystalline carbonate grew in or on extracellular cyanobacterial sheaths, preserving filaments when mineralization was early relative to sheath degradation, or grumeaux when mineralization was later. Filamentous microstructure is volumetrically predominant in the reefs; less common are micritic and grumelous microstructures already known from late Proterozoic stromatolites and Phanerozoic thrombolites. Textural intergradation of filamentous-calcimicrobial microstructure with these non-filamentous microstructures reflects microstructural variation developed through differential preservation at the scale of individual filaments and laminae. Textural gradients from filaments to grumeaux, and from calcimicrobial to stromatolitic and thrombolitic microstructure types, imply that a wide variety of microbialite microstructure types can be derived from a single progenitor community. This suggests that taphonomic variables may be as important in the development of microbialite microstructure as the biology of the microbial mat community. It also challenges recent suggestions that the Neoproterozoic increase in thromboids was related to the rise of multicellular organisms. These conclusions have broad implications for the interpretation of fossil microbialites, many of which might have been more closely related in origin than hitherto suspected.
10.2307/3514444|The ecological context of large-scale evolutionary patterns has been neglected. Several workers have recently reported a bathymetric bias in the evolution of benthic marine communities, such that nearshore assemblages tend to contain advanced taxa and community structures and offshore assemblages contain more archaic features. A clade-by-clade analysis is the most powerful approach for assessing the generality of the pattern and testing hypotheses on underlying mechanisms. We develop a paleoenvironmental framework for constructing time-environment histories for higher taxa that should be of general comparative utility, based on five environmental categories recognized by physical sedimentary and biostratinomic criteria. The robustness of negative data (absence of a given taxon from a particular time and environment) is evaluated using taphonomic control groupshigher taxa with ecological, morphological, and mineralogical properties similar to those of the group under study. Within this framework we have constructed three detailed time-environment histories from the primary literature, for the crinoid Order Isocrinida (based on 99 early Triassic-Recent occurrences), the bryozoan Order Cheilostomata (67 late Jurassic-late Eocene occurrences), and the bivalve Superfamily Tellinacea (70 late Triassic-Miocene occurrences). These three time-environment diagrams as well as numerous anecdotal reports suggest that the onshore-offshore trends previously reported for communities are actually underlain by individualistic clade histories that only appear to act in concert when viewed on a coarse time scale. For these three particular higher taxa differences in rates and timing of movement through environments also falsify causal hypotheses that invoke sea-level fluctuations or mass extinctions. We outline remaining viable hypotheses for driving mechanisms and suggest further tests; at present the data are consistent with a broad array of intrinsic biological mechanisms. These pervasive shifts through time of environmental preferences severely undermine approaches to paleoenvironmental reconstruction based on interpreting fossil content in the light of present-day faunal distributions. Production of detailed timeenvironment histories for additional higher taxa will permit paleoenvironmental analyses based on overlapping environmental range zones, in which particular co-occurrences are diagnostic of different habitats at different times.
27670611|The first fossil balanuliths are reported from a Pliocene (3.5 Ma) coquina on Mejillones Peninsula, northern Chile. While balanuliths were recently described for the first time, fossil balanuliths are not that uncommon, but they apparently have been unreported. Recently described living balanuliths form around broken parts of bivalve shells that were encrusted while still attached to the complete shell. Here balanuliths are reported on nuclei of trochid and, to a lesser extent, muricid gastropods.
10.2307/3514906|The trace fossil suite from the Kimmeridge Clay is calibrated against an oxygen gradient derived from previous geochemical, lithological and shelly macrofaunal studies. Several soft-bodied trace markers appear to have tolerated lower oxygen tensions than even the hardiest shelly benthic macrofauna-a common occurrence in both recent and ancient dysaerobic settings. Lowest diversity trace fossil assemblages consist of Astacimorphichnus etchesi (new ichnotaxon), a small endostratal pascichnial trace attributed to pioneering polychaete populations. Ekdale and Mason's (1988) contention that fodinichnia dominate the lowest diversity and lowest oxygen settings is not substantiated as the only example of this feeding strategy, Rhizocorallium irregulare, is encountered in moderately diverse trace fossil assemblages associated with a low diversity shelly macrofauna. Upper dysaerobic conditions are characterized by the development of a surface mixed layer and the consequent destruction of fine lamination. Tiering is only developed under normal oxygen conditions with Chondrites as the deepest trace. In contrast to many previous studies, Chondrites is never found in dysaerobic facies.
10.2307/3514997|Coprolites composed of plant debris are common in Pennsylvanian-age coal balls. However, the coprolites themselves give no indication as to whether they were produced by herbivores or detritivores. In this report evidence that certain coprolites were produced by a highly specific kind of herbivore is presented. Many petioles of the marattialean tree-fern Psaronius chasei from the Calhoun Coal (Upper Pennsylvanian) of Illinois have large cavities filled with coprolites and disrupted plant tissue. The cavities are bordered by extensive proliferation of the cortical parenchyma. This proliferation closely resembles wound tissue produced by extant ferns and occurs only in petioles with coprolites. The cylindrical coprolites average 1.85 by 2.76 mm and are composed of the remains of plant tissues including sclerenchyma, gum sacs, and other cells identifiable as tissue from the petioles in which the coprolites occur. The plant-animal interaction represented by the wounded petioles is highly specific. No evidence of it has been found in any other kind of petiole (e.g., seed fern) or even in petioles of other species of Psaronius. Only petioles larger than 1.5 cm in diameter have wound tissue and coprolites.
10.2307/3514878|Two rocky-shore deposits are described at localities of Late Cretaceous age in Baja California, Mexico. The main locality, at Las Minas, is characterized by a carbonate matrix containing clasts derived from an underlying andesite flow. Basal boulders give way up section to smaller cobbles and silt, indicating a transgression. The biotas from the sites include encrusting forms (coralline algae, bryozoans, serpulids, ostreids, spondylids), pholadid bivalve borings, and several nestling and mobile taxa. The well exposed boulder zone contains clusters of nestling pectinids preserved in growth position. This is the first such observation from an ancient rocky shore. Echinoids also lived within the relatively stable boulder interstices. Rocky-shore biotas of Late Cretaceous age from around the world contain many elements in common, including large encrusting oysters, spondylids, serpulids, rhynconellid brachiopods, and echinoids. Other groups common to rocky shores today are found at only some Cretaceous localities (e.g., barnacles, trochid and cerithiid gastropods, limpets, chitons). More archaic taxa, such as crinoids and large inarticulate brachiopods, are rarely represented at the known Cretaceous localities. Reconstructions of the biotas of ancient rocky shores offer a new avenue for the study of evolution on hard substrates. As the number and quality of described rocky-shore localities increases, it will be possible to put into a broader context evolutionary trends derived strictly from hardgrounds or other hard-substrate types.
10.2307/3514733|Osagid grains from the Lower Permian (Wolfcamp) Winfield Limestone of southern Kansas-northern Oklahoma are small accretionary structures formed in shallow, well-agitated waters on a carbonate shelf Osagid grains consist of small shell fragments serving as nuclei, which during formation were rolled about and coated by roughly concentric algal-foraminiferal laminations. Their shapes range from round to subround to elliptical, dependent primarily on the size and shape of the shell nuclei. Grain laminae are dark micrite which in places contain tubules of the blue-green alga Girvanella, and/or various encrusting foraminifers, with either calcareous or agglutinated tests, or intermixtures of all three components. Formic acid etching of individual osagid grains indicates that the agglutinated foraminiferal component is of greater importance than previously believed and can be their principal biotic component. Girvanella tubules appear to be most susceptible to diagenetic alteration, with the end-product generally a dark, micritic groundmass of "algal dust." Since these accretionary structures are not true biological species, the generic term "Osagia" should be dropped and these structures should be called "osagid grains."
27670547|Examination of remains of Callinectes sapidus deployed in several depth and environmental settings in the Bahamas and Gulf of Mexico as part of the Shelf and Slope Experimental Taphonomy Initiative project revealed that all specimens were uniformly and strongly degraded except those in brine-seep settings. Fragmentation and loss of cuticular material at all sites was correlated to the degree of calcification within the cuticle of different skeletal elements as observed in the undeployed specimens. Claws, tips of the last anterolateral spine, and mandibles were the most durable remains. In brine-seep areas, extraordinary preservation yielded articulated skeletal elements and some soft tissue. Examination of the cuticle in control specimens with cross-polarized light and computed tomographic scanning documents the correspondence of high degrees of calcification with portions of the exoskeleton remaining after deployment.
40960980|Stable oxygen-and carbon-isotope profiles from recent specimens of the exotic oyster Crassostrea gigas collected in southern San Francisco Bay were analyzed in conjunction with in situ records of environmental variability to determine the timing of the initial biological invasion and the number of annual cohorts present. Two distinct patterns of isotopic (O/O and C/C) variation were identified. The first, found in specimens collected alive from two sites in 2006, is characterized by several unique features that correlate with predicted oxygen-isotope values calculated from temperature and salinity measurements and with records of phytoplankton blooms, indicating that these oysters were recruited at the end of 2001 or early in 2002. The isotope profiles from other specimens differ from these, and do not show evidence of significant environmental events that occurred in 2003, 2004, and 2006, despite the fact that some of these oysters were also collected alive in 2006. These oysters were likely recruited between 1998 and 2000, based on shell growth rates estimated with the von Bertalanffy growth function and on the record of phytoplankton blooms. Poor resolution due to slowed shell growth associated with senescence probably accounts for the absence of the 2003-2006 environmental events in these shell isotope records. These findings indicate that at least two cohorts of C. gigas settled in San Francisco Bay in recent years. That two successful recruitment events occurred over a relatively short time suggests that further recruitment may occur. Such studies as the one conducted here can potentially be used to identify favorable environmental conditions or circumstances associated with past biological invasions as well as those likely to come.
10.2307/3515409|Two types of root casts attached to in situ stump casts of early trees from the Catskill Delta Complex are described and contrasted. The first type is attached to bulbous sandstone tree-stump casts (Eospermatoperis sp.?) occurring in a low-chroma (gray-green), pyritic, gley siltstone paleosol of Middle Devonian (Givetian) age that is interpreted as waterlogged; this paleosol formed in a coastal-margin setting characterized by a shallow water-table. Root casts in the Middle Devonian paleosol are horizontal to subhorizontal, strap-like (measuring 0.5-2 cm in width and up to meters long), and radiate outward from stump casts with distinctly flared bases. Root casts with a similar morphology also occur attached to the upper portions of stump casts, and comprised an aerial root mantle. The second type of root cast is attached to weakly flared to corm-like sandstone tree-stump casts of probable progymnosperms (Archaeopteris sp.?) occurring in a moderate-chroma (red), oxidized sandy paleosol of Late Devonian (Famennian) age that is interpreted as well-drained; this paleosol formed proximal to active alluvial channels. Root casts are dominantly vertical, taproot-like (measuring up to 10-15 cm in diameter and up to 1.5 m long), and descend downward from the bases of stump casts with approximately a 60 angle of attachment. The two types of tree-root casts differ due to development under different soil-drainage conditions. Preservation of in situ Devonian tree-stump casts and attached root casts involved degradation of interior tissues, followed by sediment infilling; outer tissue (periderm) persisted longer before decay and infilling. Preservation is favored by conditions of rapid sediment accumulation, generally associated with sandstone deposition, as is the case for Carboniferous lycopod tree stumps documented by other workers. Lack of preservation in fine-grained claystone paleosols associated with either coastal-margin mudflat or alluvial floodplain deposition reflects either (1) no colonization of these soil environments by mature trees, (2) selective destruction of the root traces by intensive physical mixing associated with vertic (shrink-swell) soil processes in clay paleosols, or (3) average sediment accumulation rates that were too low to bury and preserve in situ stump casts.
10.2307/3515338|Amount of bioturbation on bedding planes records the relationship between physical and chemical depositional conditions and biological activity. We propose a simple and easy-to-use method for field estimation of horizontal disruption using bedding-plane bioturbation indices that allow rapid generation of large data sets. Photographs of a representative subset of observations can be evaluated in the laboratory using image analysis and statistical analysis programs, providing a check on accuracy and potentially yielding additional information on the size, shape, and distribution of burrows and bioturbated patches. Extent of bioturbation on bedding planes can be integrated with other sedimentologic and ichnologic characteristics to interpret the infaunal community paleoecology and to reconstruct the history of the depositional, erosional, and burrowing events. Furthermore, use of the bedding-plane bioturbation indices and ichnofabric indices on vertical surfaces facilitates comparison of the extent of bioturbation through time, within and between facies, and across and between basins. It therefore enhances recognition of significant changes in physical processes, chemical conditions, and biological activity, and is a powerful tool in identifying long-term biological trends.
40606420|Quantitative analysis of rare skeletal Lagersttten of Paleozoicearly Mesozoic ages indicates that early dissolution of aragonite has seriously skewed community structures. The consequences of this widespread diagenetic process effectively preclude accurate interpretation and reconstruction of many fossil faunas in shelf settings. Trophic and ecologie loss focuses on the shallow infaunal tier of burrowing bivalves and the epifaunal vagrant detritus-feeding tier represented by gastropods. Case studies of the Ordovician-Carboniferous suggest that sequences with apparently typical Sepkoski Paleozoic faunas dominated by brachiopods were originally molluscan-dominated and included significant infaunal components. Early Mesozoic faunas dominated by epifaunal and semiinfaunal bivalves are similarly severely skewed by loss of ecologie diversity. Molluscan biodiversity appears more strongly affected in Paleozoic times. Such lower-energy environments as lagoons and midto-outer carbonate ramp settings are especially prone to dissolution loss. It is perhaps important to question for such faunas whether trophic tiers are reduced or missing.
27670579|Here we document the occurrence of locally common oncoids in the Cedar Mountain Formation of Utah in the Woodside Anticline area of the San Rafael Swell and use them to understand changes in the Early Cretaceous landscape and their effects on the dinosaur fauna. Detailed facies analysis is required to understand the context of these changes within the broader patterns of Mesozoic tectonics and the fossil record. Oncolite crops out in the Cedar Mountain Formation, directly overlying the Buckhorn Conglomerate. Oncolite is not widely distributed outside of the Woodside Anticline area. The oncoids are found in a bimodal population with the majority in the 25-cm-diameter range and a smaller population >25 cm in diameter. Nuclei are mostly rounded chert clasts and also include litharenite, polymict conglomerate, limestone, and both abraded and nonabraded dinosaur bone and wood fragments. Cortices are 35 mm thick with distinct, penecint (laminae that completely enclose a body; Hofmann, 1969), low-relief laminae. Some laminae are crenulated and comprise ministromatolites. The petrography of the oncoids suggests formation along lake margins where large fragments of reworked sedimentary clasts and dinosaur bones came to rest and were coated by bacterial mats. Caliche cements and coats some of the oncolite; these define a lake shoreline affected by fluctuating lake level. The isotope geochemistry indicates a combination of primary and diagenetic signals consistent with oncoid formation in open, ephemeral freshwater lakes.
10.2307/3514562|Rapid burial of crinoids commonly is responsible for spectacular preservation of articulated specimens. However, some Paleozoic crinoids, especially large-calyx (camerate) crinoids, were scavenged after rapid, intact burial. Crinoids that were catastrophically buried and subsequently scavenged can be recognized in the fossil record by presence of (1) biotur-bational texture, (2) abundant articulated stems, arms, and pinnules, (3) disarticulated calyx plates, and (4) articulated arms and pinnules oriented in hydrodynamically unstable positions. Large-calyx crinoids may have been selected by scavenging organisms preferentially because the large calyces housed gonads, which generally are the most nutritious parts of echinoderms.
10.2307/3515263|A thin (~1.5 m) transgressive systems tract within the Lower Paleocene Clayton Formation of western Alabama, composed of, in ascending order, a sandy pebbly marlstone (transgressive lag), calcareous muds, and a chalk (condensed section), contains an unusual abundance of allochthonous logs with Teredolites, a clavate boring produced within xylic substrates. Borings are characterized by diameters ranging from 1 to 15 mm, high length/width ratios, contorted axes oriented primarily parallel to the grain of substrates, calcite linings, and rare terminal bioglyphs. Although no body fossil evidence for the affinity of the boring organisms is preserved, these morphological characteristics, which are most allied with the ichnotaxon T. longissimus, reflect the boring activities of wood-digesting bivalves of the family Teredinidae. On the basis of the preservational state of associated log-grounds and the disposition of borings relative to their original substrates, Teredolites falls within one of four preservational modes: 1) well-preserved log-grounds, 2) relict log-grounds, 3) ghost log-grounds, and 4) reworked Teredolites. The first three of these modes represent a continuum in the extent of biochemical degradation of xylic substrates during early diagenesis, whereas the latter mode reflects physical reworking (within depositional environments) of borings liberated from their original substrates. The degree of physical alteration and chemical diagenesis of Teredolites varies predictably among these modes. The overall abundance of xylic substrates and the vertical and spatial distribution of the various preservational modes within the transgressive systems tract are linked to three mechanisms, all of which are related to phases of sea-level rise: 1) an influx pulse of xylic substrates into marine and marginal marine environments resulting from the transgressive inundation of forested coastal plains; 2) mechanical reworking and concentration of xylic substrates that were uprooted or exhumed during progressive landward migration of the shoreface; and 3) concentration of drifted substrates via sediment starvation on marine shelves. Ongoing studies of other depositional sequences and review of previous literature provide support for the proposed relationships among sea-level dynamics and the stratigraphic distribution, abundance, and preservational states of xylic substrates and/or Teredolites. However, further investigations are required in order to establish better the range of conditions necessary to produce and preserve extraordinary accumulations of these components such as that in the Clayton Formation.
10.2307/3514870|The Mahakam River delta is a tide- and wave-dominated delta located on the edge of the Kutei basin, eastern Kalimantan, Borneo. A vibracoring program sampled the principal fine-grained depositional environments in two transects; one within the fluvially-dominated regime, one within the tidally-dominated regime. Ten sedimentary facies are distinguished and phytoclasts have been recovered from all environments of deposition. Canopy parts from the mixed tropical forest community are preserved throughout the delta, whereas dicotyledonous angiosperm mangroves are restricted to the subtidal zone and delta front. Nypa parts are preserved in most depositional environments. In sites where there appears to be an absence of macrodetritus, dispersed cuticle is recoverable. Identifiable plant parts include wood and fibrous tissues, Nypa petioles and leaf laminae, dicotyledonous angiosperm leaves and isolated cuticles, fruits and seeds, roots and rootlets, and moss. Dammar is found either as dispersed resin ducts or amorphous clasts. Additional biotic components found in bedded plant litters include insects, gastropods, bivalves, sand dollars, ostracods, and crabs. Fluvial channels and depositional sites associated with these systems in the delta front can be differentiated from Nypa swamps and mixed tropical hardwood-palm swamps based on their phytological components and accessory biotic elements.
10.2307/3515349|The large sandy desert of Badain Jaran Shamo, Inner Mongolia, has several salt lakes located among megadunes with crests as high as 400 m. Most of the lakes are hypo- to hypersaline and alkaline, with pH values between 8.5 and 10. Because of their reef-like aragonitic pinnacles rising from the lake floor, Lake Nuoertu and Lake Huhejaran have been investigated in detail. The porous limestones of the tufa pinnacles ("spring mounds") result from a hydrochemically forced, exopolymer-mediated calcification of cyanobacteria-dominated microbial mats at sublacustrine springs. The development of their enigmatic fabrics is documented for the first time. Sickle-cell-like and bubble-shaped fabrics reflect successive mineralization during degradation, shrinkage of the organic mucus, and gas formation by bacteria. Fossil analogues are known from the Pleistocene and Miocene (Ries-crater lake), but older non-marine, Phanerozoic examples are expected. To the extent that these textures are associated exclusively with alkaline environments, they can be used to test the hypothesis of an alkaline ocean early in Earth history.
3515774|The biostratigraphy of the La Luna Formation has long been in dispute, despite the importance of this unit as the most important source rock for hydrocarbons in Venezuela. In this paper, calcareous microfossil biostratigraphy combined with carbon-isotope stratigraphy provides a stratigraphic framework for the formation, permitting revision of temporal and spatial patterns of deposition of organic-rich sediments. Detailed studies were conducted on a cored borehole and five outcrop sections distributed across the Maracaibo Basin of western Venezuela. Planktic foraminifera have fair to good preservation, and nannofossils are poorly preserved. Many of the Cenomanian to Campanian planktic foraminiferal marker species are present, permitting the application of a traditional zonal scheme. An informal nannofossil biostratigraphic zonal scheme, based primarily on dissolution-resistant species, has been developed. Integration of these zonal schemes has enabled the correlation of changes in carbon-isotope ratios to the global C-isotope stratigraphy. The results have been used to estimate temporal variation in sedimentation rates as well as to reconstruct depositional patterns across the Maracaibo Basin. Deposition began in the eastern and northwestern part of the Maracaibo Basin in the middle Cenomanian and progressed towards the south and west, reaching the southwestern corner by the middle Coniacian. Although the uppermost part of the formation could not be dated, deposition in the eastern basin continued at least into the Coniacian and in the western basin at least until the middle-late Santonian. Sedimentation rates were highly variable with a period of condensed sedimentation at the Cenomanian-Turonian boundary.
3515723|Nereites ichnofabrics (comprising N. missouriensis) occupy the upper 3-7 cm in brown, oxidized, soft to soupy, uniformly fine-grained sediments that accumulated at a low rate (<5-6 cm/kyr) at water depths >4000 m water in the central South China Sea. Nereites are nearly vertical close to the sediment surface, become increasingly more inclined with depth, and, just above the redox boundary, they show a winding, subhorizontal course. The Nereites producers appear to be guided chemotactically as they maintain a consistent distance relative to the redox boundary, despite variation in depth of penetration between studied sites. The transition from oxic to anoxic conditions is characterized by high concentrations of microbial biomass on which the Nereites producers are inferred to feed. Thus, the Nereites tier in fossil ichnofabrics may reflect the position of the redox boundary. Ash-filled burrows below the 1991 Pinatubo ash layer imply surface-feeding activities of the Nereites-producing animals. However, the small amount of ash in the burrows demonstrates only subordinate use of surface sediments, probably during periods of enhanced particle flux following upwelling. Based on the number of ash-filled burrows and the number of upwelling periods, an average population density of the Nereites producers of 5-6 animals per m<sup>2</sup> is estimated.
3515209|Experiments that recorded the dispersal of 142 bones within a meandering, 2030 m-long reach of the East Fork River, Wyoming over a 13-year period provide a basis for interpreting distribution patterns and time averaging in fossiliferous channel deposits. Results show that light and porous bones, (e.g., vertebrae, patellae, and phalanges) were transported farther than heavy bones (e.g., limb bones and mandibles). Dispersal patterns of bones from individual experimental sets representing point sources demonstrate that bones became sorted by size and shape within 1 to 2 years and that sorting patterns varied according to initial channel position. The combined distribution of bones from all the experimental sets, however, was unsorted and generally random, suggesting that unsorted fluvial bone assemblages reflect multiple bone sources and differences in the time at which bones enter the channel. Estimates of time-averaging of potential and observed natural bone assemblages in the East Fork River and the South Platte River range from 10<sup>1</sup>-10<sup>4</sup> years. The upper limit for this estimate is controlled by both the age of fossiliferous floodplain deposits that border the rivers and by the ability of the rivers to rework these floodplain deposits. The lower limit reflects either the scarcity of bones in the floodplain sediments or the inability of the rivers to rework these older bones; in this case channel bone assemblages should represent only remains from deaths in the channel or remains that were transported into the channel from adjoining land surfaces, resulting in short intervals of time-averaging (10<sup>1</sup>-10<sup>2</sup> years). The East Fork study further suggests that sandstone geometry, paleosol development, and the sedimentary context of fossil occurrences can be used to evaluate time-averaging in ancient fossiliferous channel deposits. Fossil bone assemblages that are present exclusively in ribbon-shaped channel deposits associated with weakly developed paleosols and unfossiliferous floodplain deposits should represent shorter time intervals than similar fossil assemblages associated with sheet sandstones and moderately developed paleosols with abundant fossils.
27670577|The silicified brachiopod faunas collected by G. Arthur Cooper and Richard E. Grant over decades of field work in the Permian Basin of western Texas provide a remarkable resource for studying change in the structure of fossilized ecological communities. Ordination analyses using 511 faunal lists that include 967 species (190 genera) from the Kungurian through the Capitanian Stages of the Guadalupe and Glass Mountains (15 myr) reveal four distinct, major stratigraphic clusters, each divisible into two to three subclusters. For the most part, these clusters coincide with third-order depositional sequences bounded by unconformities. Except for the youngest (Capitanian Stage), all the stratigraphic clusters show internal ordination patterns consistent with biogeographic and environmental (i.e., biotic gradients) control on the distribution of taxa. Despite this evidence for environmental sorting of taxa, Mantel tests indicate that patterns of generic co-occurrence break down from cluster to cluster despite sharing many of the same species and genera. This pattern cannot easily be explained by preservational or stratigraphic biases, suggesting that the processes that govern ecological communities may not lead to unique, strictly determined associations despite the presence of broadly similar species under similar environmental conditions. In contrast to the rest of the study interval, Capitanian clusters are less well structured (i.e., they do not show strong biotic gradients) than assemblages from any of the other clusters and do not show significant recurrence of generic associations. This may reflect evolution of carbonate margins in the basin from ramps to shelves with steep slopes over the duration of the study interval, a shift that may have changed the spatial distribution of (and covariation among) the environmental parameters that controlled brachiopod distributions.
25835649|The CambrianOrdovician boundary interval is a critical moment in the ecology of trilobite communities. To understand this transition, we studiedat three different spatial scaleschanges in the structure of olenid-dominated communities included in the Parabolina fauna, which flourished in the latest Cambrian, largely storm-dominated, successions of northwestern Argentina. At the local (meter) scale, species-poor communities occur in shoreface deposits. Relatively flat species-abundance distributions (SADs) and high evenness characterize upper offshore to offshore transition settings of the early highstand systems tract (HST), whereas uneven SADs in species-poor communities are typical of the lower offshore and shelf environments of the transgressive systems tract (TST). This pattern is unlikely to be caused by a change in time averaging and is consistent with the intermediate disturbance hypothesis predicting unimodal diversity gradients. The pattern is thus interpreted to be related to a trend in intensity and frequency of storm disturbance along local shallowing-upward gradients. At the regional scale (100 km), the diversity trend across the sampled west-east transect is rather variable and does not match the depth or oxygen-related gradients. At the biogeographic scale, the patterns of abundance of two key taxa (Parabolina and Asaphellus) show contrasting abundance and occupancy patterns between the Cordillera Oriental siliciclastic settings and the more carbonate-rich settings of Famatina (Argentina) and Oaxaca (Mexico). The presence of these genera in settings spatially adjacent, but environmentally different from their preferred habitats can represent a signature of source-sink dynamics. Low sample evenness values for the Cordillera Oriental contrast with those of coeval Laurentian communities, implying that a secular increase in evenness took place earlier in Laurentia than in Gondwana.
27670530|In carbonate depositional environments, sediment is mostly produced by different groups of organisms. Ecological parameters, thus, play a major role controlling carbonate production. In the present work, carbonate-producing biota, especially foraminifers, are studied to construct a depositional model and paleoecological interpretation of the lower Tortonian distally steepened ramp of Menorca (Balearic Islands, Spain). This carbonate platform corresponds to a highstand systems track prograding and aggrading over a Paleozoic, Mesozoic, and, locally, lower Tertiary basement. Outcrops are excellently exposed in the southern part of the island. Five facies associations are observed, which, in downdip direction, correspond to inner ramp, middle ramp, ramp slope, toe of the slope, and outer ramp. Samples have been studied using point counting of 102 thin sections. Six foraminiferal assemblages have been distinguished. Eight microfacies are identified (IR.1, IR.2, MR, URS, LRS, TS.1, TS.2, and OR), based on the abundance and ecological significance of the foraminifers (large benthic foraminifers, epiphytics, low-oxygen indicators, and planktonics) and other carbonate-producing organisms (echinoids, mollusks, barnacles, bryozoans, serpulids, coral genus Porites, and green and red algae). Seagrass meadows in the inner ramp correspond to the euphotic carbonate factory, whereas red algae and large benthic foraminifers dominate the oligophotic carbonate factory in the middle ramp and upper ramp slope. Microfacies composition verified intense sediment-transport processes from inner and middle ramp down to lower ramp slope, toe of the slope, and outer ramp. Finally, microfacies analysis also indicates that carbonate-production took place in warm-water conditions, in oligotrophic-to-mesotrophic waters.
10.2307/3514663|Microborings are found in virtually any exposed carbonate substrate in the tropical waters of the Bahamas. Previous investigations of microborers have concluded that substrate type plays little or no role in their distribution. However, our preliminary scanning electron microscope (SEM) study of microboring casts in six common genera of foraminifera from San Salvador island demonstrates that host taxa differ with respect to extent of infestation and location of infestation within the test. We suspect, but can not yet prove, that different assemblages of microboring organisms are also involved. The primary differences exist at the suborder level; members of the Suborder Rotaliina are not as bored as specimens of the Miliolina taken from the same sample. Rotaliids are infested almost exclusively in the outer margin of the test, whereas miliolids vary from taxon to taxon. Differences in infestation at the suborder level may be controlled, at least in part, by the fundamental differences in wall microstructure between the Rotaliina and the Miliolina, and may have important implications for their relative preservation potentials.
10.2307/3514827|A fossil methane seep community is preserved in marine strata of the Mio-Pliocene Quinault Formation, southwestern Washington. Quinault sediments were deposited unconformably on a middle Miocene accretionary complex, the Hoh rocks assemblage; both units are now accreted to the continental margin, uplifted, and exposed in coastal seacliffs along the western Olympic Peninsula. The Hoh accretionary complex was probably the source of methane-rich fluids to the proposed Quinault paleoseep, which comprises approximately 15 m vertically by 75 m horizontally of an extensive outcrop of mid-shelf depth deposited sandstone and siltstone. The paleoseep is characterized by the vent-type bivalves Solemya, Lucinoma and Modiolus, and by localized authigenic carbonates in a dark siltstone deposit that is finer-grained than the surrounding, non-seep strata. The stable carbon isotopic signatures from the localized carbonates suggest that their precipitation was influenced at least in part from the oxidation of thermogenic methane present while the paleoseep taxa flourished at the site. The Quinault paleoseep is similar to modern methane seep communities that thrive offshore of Oregon. However when compared to the present-day setting, ancient fluid expulsion was apparently relatively diffuse: it produced a fossil seep of limited areal extent with a localized distribution/abundance of seep invertebrates and associated carbonates. The tectonic, sedimentologic, isotopic and taxonomic evidence used to identify the Quinault paleoseep example can be combined with similar patterns observed worldwide for other fossil seeps of varying ages to predict the occurrence and distribution of new fossil cold seeps, particularly in ancient convergent margin settings. Specifically, offshore-deposited marine strata with anomalous sedimentologic (carbonates, sulfides) and isotopic (light stable carbon values) features as well as odd faunal associations (low diversity, high abundance) could be considered "seep-suspect," if found together with various preserved structural conduits for fluid flow (faults, veins, diapirs, shear zones).
10.2307/3514607|The new generation of high-resolution stratigraphic research depends upon detailed bed-by-bed analysis to enhance regional correlation potential. The standard Jacob' s staff is not an efficient and precise tool for measuring thin-bedded strata. The high-precision Jacob's staff design presented and illustrated in this paper meets the qualifications required of such an instrument. The prototype of this simple design consists of a sliding bracket that holds a Brunton-type compass at right angles to a ruled-off staff. This instrument provides rapid and accurate measurement of both thick-or thin-bedded sequences, thus decreasing field time and increasing stratigraphic precision.
10.2307/3515158|Response of reef development to sea level is well displayed in the 70-m-thick upper Miocene El Desastre reef complex, Fortuna basin (Murcia Province, southeastern Spain). Conglomerates that show evidence of subaerial exposure characterize the sea-level low stand; reefs aggraded as relative sea level rose tens of meters. The reef developed on an erosional platform (about 1.5 km<sup>2</sup>) carved into older reef-slope sediments. It exhibits evidence of start-up, catch-up, and keep-up patterns of growth. Rapid relative sea-level rise flooded the platform to depths as great as 25 m. Prior to initiation of reef sedimentation (start-up phase), a lag phase of unknown duration occurred during which foraminifer wackestones and packstones accumulated. Following the lag phase, reef sedimentation yielded 20 to 40 m of fossiliferous packstones. Corals proliferated and eventually caught up to the sea-level surface; henceforth, the keep-up pattern of reef growth prevailed. Growth rates of branching-corals reflected changes in sea level, which rose episodically producing distinct layers of corals and coralline algae up to 1.5 m thick. Seaward, a poorly developed algal ridge formed. The layers of flat-topped corals and algal ridges precisely record successive Miocene sea levels. The keep-up phase failed and the reef reverted to a catch-up style of growth, perhaps due to accelerated sea-level rise, foul waters, or isolation by a seaward barrier. Studies of similar-age reefs in the area and their inferred sea-level curves could shed light on the relative importance of eustatic and tectonic influence on sea-level change in the western Mediterranean during the late Miocene.
10.2307/3514955|Patterns of longevity and rate of appearance of taxa in the fossil record indicate a different evolutionary dynamic between land plants and marine invertebrates. Among marine invertebrates, rates of taxonomic turnover declined through the Phanerozoic, with increasingly extinction-resistant, long-lived, clades coming to dominate. Among terrestrial vascular plants, rates of turnover increased through the Phanerozoic, with short-lived, extinction-prone clades coming to dominate from the Devonian to the present. Terrestrial vertebrates appear to approximate the marine invertebrate pattern more closely than the plant record. We identify two features which individually or jointly may have influenced this distinction. First, land plants continuously invaded stressful environments during their evolution, while marine invertebrates and terrestrial vertebrates did not. Second, the relative structural simplicity and indeterminate mode of plant growth vs. the relative structural complexity and determinate mode of animal growth may have influenced the timing of major clade origin in the two groups.
10.2307/3515292|Taphonomic alteration in coral death assemblages showed high variability with respect to reef environment and growth form at Orpheus Island on the Great Barrier Reef, Australia. A greater degree of physical and biological alteration occurred in the lower-energy leeward Pioneer Bay site relative to the higher-energy windward Iris Point site. Greater degrees of taphonomic alteration also occurred at 6-7 m than 2-3 m water depth within each site. Clear gradients in the degree of taphonomic alteration of reef corals with reef environment indicate the utility of corals as taphofacies indicators in ancient reef settings. Because greater taphonomic differences between depths occurred at the high wave-energy site relative to the low wave-energy site, differentiation of fossil reef taphofacies might be greatest in high-energy reef settings. Interpretation of ancient reef sedimentary environments may be aided by analysis of taphonomic alteration of reef corals. Massive corals suffered greater degrees of biological and physical alteration than free-living corals which suffered greater alteration than branching corals. The greater taphonomic alteration in more robust massive coral growth forms from Orpheus Island concurs with other studies that have suggested that bioerosion may be related to overall skeletal area and density, and amount of skeleton not covered by living tissue during the life of the coral In addition, relative differences in production of coral morphotypes might result in a greater number of less degraded branching than massive corals. A possible explanation for the two observations that corals in higher wave energy environments are less degraded than those from lower wave energy environments, and that fragile are better preserved than robust coral growth forms, is the differing amount of post-mortem residence time the corals spend in the 'taphonomically active zone'.
10.2307/3515191|Exceptionally preserved aragonitic demosponge material occurs within the Virgilian Holder Formation, Sacramento Mountains, south-central, New Mexico. Fissispongia tortacloaca (King) is identified, a species previously known only from completely calcified specimens. Standard optical microscopy and SEM examination of broken surfaces of the F. tortacloaca skeleton distinguishes between primary spherulites and a later epitaxial overgrowth. F. tortacloaca biomineralization is readily comparable to that of the modern agelasid demosponge Astrosclera willeyana, thus confirming the demosponge affinity of this form. Cathodoluminescence microscopy and back scatter SEM examination identifies selective silicification and calcitization of the spherulite centers. These diagenetic minerals affect the initial spherulite biomineralization mimicking the original microstructural fabric. Elemental composition of F. tortacloaca (Sr = 7600 ppm, S = 1640 ppm and Mg = 150 ppm) is close to that of modern A. willeyana (Sr = 10,000 ppm, S = 1780 ppm and Mg = 320 ppm). Sr concentration in F. tortacloaca indicates that late Pennsylvanian seawater had slightly less Sr (7 ppm) than modern seawater. S is interpreted as having been incorporated into sponge aragonite as SO<sub>4</sub> <sup>2-</sup>. The stable isotope composition of F. tortacloaca <sup>13</sup>C = +5.5%; <sup>18</sup>O = -2.1%o) is compatible with other Virgilian skeletal carbonates from the USA, but is about 1%o heavier than A. willeyana (<sup>13</sup>C = +-4.4%o;<sup>18</sup>O = -0.8%o). The <sup>18</sup>O composition of F. tortacloaca indicates tropical to subtropical temperatures between 24-30<sup>o</sup> C using Grossman and Ku's expression T<sup>oC</sup> = 20.6 - 4.34 (<sup>18</sup>O<sub>A</sub> - d<sub>w</sub>): assuming the Pennsylvanian ocean had a <sup>18</sup>O composition similar to modern seawater with an -1.2%o variation due to glacial ice volume effects.
10.2307/3515633|Fossil Marsiliaceae, referable to Marsilea (also known as water clover or pepperwort), were found as impressions in baked clay stone (clinker) of the Eocene Wasatch Formation near Buffalo, Wyoming. This is the first documented evidence of Marsilea foliage in Tertiary strata. The fossil is in the Bureau of Land Management's Petrified Tree Environmental Education Area where strata are associated with the Healy and Walters coal beds. Previous palynological analyses, the presence of the ferns Salvinia preauriculata and Lygodium kaulfussi, and the stratigraphic position of the deposits indicate an Early Eocene age for the fossils. Leaf impressions of a variety of pteridophytes and spermatophytes, in conjunction with more than 100 pollen and spore taxa, indicate deposition on a tropical to subtropical fluvial floodplain. Leaf morphology, including leaf size, shape, and venation, are very similar to living species of Marsilea. The preservation in thermally altered sedimentary rock that was derived from claystone is consistent with the plants' current preference for moist clay soils. The conservative morphology and environmental preferences of Marsilea indicate that it is an ecologically conservative genus that can be a reliable indicator of quiet freshwater habitats with clay substrata.
40960988|Earth's earliest known metazoan ecosystems are represented by a handful of globally distributed fossil assemblages, collectively referred to as the Ediacara Biota. Although a number of these deposits have been extensively studied, a large proportion of Ediacaran diversity remains uncharacterized. As a result, our understanding of community structure during this important stage of early metazoan evolution is largely incomplete. Moreover, it is only by examining these deposits from a taphonomic perspective that we can hope to decipher these enigmatic forms and fully reconstruct the Ediacaran community. Using this approach, we describe the anomalous preservation of a distinct, prolific, and previously undescribed Ediacaran biogenic sedimentary structure, informally known as "mop," from the Ediacara Member of the Rawnsley Quartzite in South Australia. Morphological resemblance, spatial association, size distribution, and examination of intermediary forms indicate a shared origin with the holdfast form genus Aspidelia and convergence with Pseudorhizostomites. We interpret mop to have been formed by the dragging or uprooting of a Charniodiscus-Mke frond through a microbially bound substrate by unidirectional currents. Like a freeze frame, mop captures the momentary interaction of organisms and their physical and biotic environment. Detailed characterization of morphological and sedimentological features suggests that variability of mop and associated forms is due largely to taphonomically controlled factors. A better understanding of problematic structures like mop may elucidate the still-enigmatic Ediacaran substrate and the nonactualistic taphonomic processes at work in the preservation of Ediacaran deposits.
10.2307/3515069|The Lacepede Shelf on the southern Australian passive continental margin narrows from 200 km off the River Murray to 50 km to the southeast (the Bonney Shelf) and 70 km to the west. It is mostly deeper than 40 m. Sediments are Holocene and late Pleistocene quartzose clastics and bryozoan/mollusc carbonates. Dredged samples from four transects yield over 200 foraminiferal species. Test preservation in any single taxon ranges from fresh to brown (or relict). Plankton is rare on the shelf, but increases to 10% or more in 100 m and deeper waters. Relict benthics, representing products of previous low sealevels, are concentrated off the River Murray mouth. Mixed deep- and shallow-water assemblages are common in mid- to inner-shelf sites and also on the eastern Bonney Shelf, where there is seasonal wind-driven upwelling. A cluster analysis determined five major assemblages: I, slope and deeper water (>130 m); II, mid to outer shelf (60-130 m); III, upwelling center, "mixing A' (<82 m on Bonney Shelf); IV, "mixing B" (150-338 m on Bonney Shelf; 35-70 m on other transects); and V, shallow relict (<55 m off River Murray mouth). These mixed thanatocoenoses have been generated in the past 300 Ka during sealevel fluctuations over tens of meters. The rarity of fresh tests on the inner to middle shelves indicates a low deposition rate of recent foraminifera due to high energy, particularly wave abrasion. It is anticipated that some fossil assemblages may similarly be strongly mixed over 10<sup>3</sup>-10<sup>4</sup> years.
10.2307/3514723|Sedimentologic evidence for paleobathymetry, like palontologic evidence, is largely indirect in that it mostly reflects processes and conditions that are themselves partly depth-dependent Sedimentologic approaches can be a useful adjunct to paleontology for interpreting paleodepths, particularly in relatively shallow water. Pleistocene deposits of the Merced Formation on the San Francisco Peninsula, California, provide an excellent opportunity to demonstrate the methods, value, and difficulties of the sedimentologic approach. Distinction between subaerial and subaqueous deposition can be drawn on the basis of eolian structure, paleosols, and other sedimentary features. The spacing of symmetric ripples relative to their grain size and lenticular laminae of heavy minerals may be useful for identifying deposition in very shallow water. The boundary between intertidal and subtidal deposits serves to establish ancient sea-level positions. The boundary is reflected by the upward transitions from cross-bedded sand (nearshore facies) to planar-bedded sand (foreshore facies) in open-coast deposits, and from laminated sand and/or mud (subtidal channel bank facies) to bioturbated sand and/or mud (intertidal flat facies) in the deposits of coastal embayments. Where the physical setting (i.e., wave energy, sediment input, etc.) can be reasonably reconstructed, paleodepths in shelf facies are indicated by the maximum depth of cross-bedding and gravel deposits generated by the effects of shoaling waves, the contact between shelf sand and mud, and the deepest occurrence of shell lags. In Pleistocene shelf deposits of the Merced Formation on the San Francisco Peninsula, California, these depths are placed at 10  5 m, 60  10 m, and 100  20 m, respectively, based on their inferred depth on the modern central California shelf. At greater depths the sedimentologic approach loses resolution and reliability. Interpretations based on the distribution of turbidites, evidence of anoxic conditions, and calcium carbonate compensation depths and lysoclines are probably most useful for establishing paleodepth in a relative sense only. Integration of the sedimentologic and paleontologic approaches carries a high potential for improving our ability to determine paleobathymetry.
10.2307/3514508|Stony corals calcify by nucleation and growth of aragonite fibers on seed nuclei packets produced by the coral. Aragonite fibers arrange into polycrystalline bundles that lift the coral upward during fiber growth, entrapping fibrils and tissue sheets, from the undersurface of the calicoblastic epithelium, between growing crystals. The morphology and arrangement of the aragonite fibers are controlled by inorganic kinetic factors of crystal growth, akin to inorganically precipitated marine cements. Corals selectively plane-off extending fibers on completed structures and stop fiber growth. Similar skeletal construction and maintenance mechanisms are found in other phyla.
27670461|The methods by which fossils are extracted from sediments can alter their observed size-frequency distributions, which can in turn alter observed paleoecologic patterns. Building on previous work, this study uses virtual sieving (i.e., replicated via subsampling on a computer) to test the effects of size filtering on the apparent ecologic composition of a database of Miocene mollusks in which the size of every specimen was measured. When simulated mesh sizes varied by nearly an order of magnitude (210 mm), the apparent relative abundances of tiering, motility, and feeding categories varied substantially in some individual bulk samples. Not surprisingly, the extent to which variations in mesh size affected the ecologic proportions of a sample depended in part on its size-frequency distribution. If the goal is to characterize the ecology of adult assemblages, the chosen mesh size should not be so small that juveniles dominate the results or so large that a majority of specimens are excluded. For many molluscan assemblages, 24 mm should often be appropriate. For preexisting data sets composed of heterogeneously collected data, there is a positive result: averaging samples together to produce a mean view of ecologic composition tends to remove the more egregious effects of the size-filtering bias. Thus, comparisons of the ecologic composition of single samples may be sensitive to mesh-size effects, but comparisons of regional or global faunas are likely more robust, and variations in size filtering may not be an obstacle to large-scale, secular comparisons of ecospace use. Measuring ecologic importance using biomass instead of abundance also reduced the effects of the mesh-size bias by reducing the influence of small-bodied individuals on ecologic proportions.
3515225|Remarkably well-preserved fossils of the udoteacean alga Eugonophyllum occur in the Virgilian Holder Formation, Sacramento Mountains, south-central New Mexico in a 20-cm-thick packstone bed between two thick shale beds. Original aragonite is preserved in this bed as a felt-like mesh of needles in algal thalli, in mollusc shell fragments, in sponge walls, and in botryoidal and isopachous marine cements. The average Sr content of the algal aragonite (9091 ppm, n = 21, standard deviation = 1498) is comparable to reported values for modern Halimeda. Internal and cortical structures of Eugonophyllum are exceptionally well preserved. In the basal, heavily calcified portion of the alga the medullary (interior) region of the Eugonophyllum thallus is composed of an aragonitic felt interspersed by small (20 m diameter), parallel siphons. In the distal, less calcified portion of the interior of the alga, siphons are larger and are irregularly arranged. As in modern udoteaceans, the bulbous tips of the utricles formed the outer surface of the organism. Where the outer cortex of our specimens is preserved by silicification, that cortex is similar to that of modern udoteacean algae (Halimeda and Udotea). This new morphologic information about Paleozoic phylloid algae substantiates earlier suggestions that at least some Pennsylvanian and Permian phylloid algae are related to modern green algae such as Halimeda and Udotea. These observations open new avenues for research on the lithologic similarities between Pennsylvanian/Permian phylloid algal mounds and Holocene Halimeda mounds as well as the factors that control the location of ancient and modern mounds.
41317462|We report a coral-sponge dominated reef lithofacies in detrital boulders of carbonate-clast conglomerate from the Olds Ferry terrane, Blue Mountains Province, Willow Spring locality, northeastern Oregon. This discovery constitutes the first report of Triassic reefal lithofacies from the Olds Ferry terrane. Corals at the site include a high-growing, dendroidphaceloid species that acted as a framework or sediment baffle, and a lowgrowing, cerioid, encrusting coral and a sponge that acted as sediment binders. The co-occurrence of coral taxa in the Wallowa intraoceanic arc and Olds Ferry pericratonic arc terranes suggests that during the Late Triassic, these regions were in proximity to one another. With this report, Upper Triassic carbonate rocks are known from all of the major terranes of the Blue Mountains Province and a Tethyan affinity is established for the fauna of the Olds Ferry terrane. We suggest that the source of this Late Triassic coral-sponge reef fauna in the upper member of the Huntington Formation was intrabasinal and that the source rocks are no longer exposed in the region. Numerous possible regional source areas for these detrital limestone clasts rule out the need to call upon an exotic terrane source area.
10.2307/3514459|Previous studies of test shape and distribution trends of reef-associated Foraminiferida provide the basis for a model of foraminiferal distribution in Cenozoic carbonate depositional facies. The model predicts distributions of foraminifera in Wilson's Standard Carbonate Facies. Basinal sediments from above the calcium carbonate compensation depth will contain predominantly low latitude planktonic foraminifera with a minor component of deeper benthic species. Open shelf and toe of reef slope sediments from euphotic zone depths will be visually dominated by very large, flat, rotaliine foraminifera. Larger foraminifera of carbonate foreslope environments are of intermediate thicknesses; total foram faunas of foreslope and ecologic reef are typically diverse. Shelf edge sands are often concentrations of tests of large, robust, subspheroid rotaliine species. Open carbonate platform sediments are characterized by robust to intermediate rotaliines and soritids. Lagoons and other restricted carbonate shelf environments of normal or hypersalinity are dominated by miliolids, peneroplids and small rotaliines. This model, when tested on thin sections cut from lower Miocene carbonate cores from four Philippine wells, enhanced the paleoenvironmental analysis and interpretation developed using standard petrographic techniques. The model is based upon recognition of three major groups of easily recognizable foraminifera: 1) thin, larger, rotaliine foraminifera plus planktonics, 2) ovate, larger rotaliines, and 3) miliolines and smaller rotaliines. The relative percentages of these environmentally diagnostic foraminifera, when plotted on triangular diagrams, provide graphic indication of paleoenvironment.
25835622|The mode of preservation dictates the preparation technique that will yield the most information about a specific fossil. Such considerations also include the time needed for preparation and degree of specimen destruction. Nowhere is this more clearly demonstrated than in the history of Carboniferous coal ball and chert research where the standard technique shifted from thin section to acetate peel preparations many years ago. Despite the ease and efficiency of acetate peels and the exponential increase in information they have provided about Carboniferous plants and ecosystems, we argue that there has been a concomitant decrease in attention directed at the microbial life also preserved in many cherts and coal balls. With this paper we endorse the use of thin sections, rather than peels, in order to study accurately the morphology and diversity of late Paleozoic microbial life.
27670512|Exceptionally large teeth attributable to the theropod genus Troodon are abundant in Upper Cretaceous rocks (CampanianMaastrichtian) of northern Alaska. The dominance of low-angle light in this Cretaceous high-latitude environment seems to have selected for an abundance of Troodon. The population of these Alaskan specimensmorphologically the same as teeth attributable to this taxon in other regionsshow a mean approximately twice the size of those found in such southern latitudes as southern Alberta and Montana. Microwear patterns on the teeth of this taxon in Alaska and Montana suggest that these animals were eating similar food items. There appears to be good correlation between tooth size and body size in theropods, thereby allowing the inference that the increase in the size of Alaskan Troodon teeth equates to an increase in body size. The increased body size for Alaskan Troodon is likely related to increased availability of food resources as a result of decreased numbers of other predatory dinosaurs, particularly tyrannosaurids, in the ecosystem.
10.2307/3514851| Two archeological sites on the northern slope of the Cantabrian Cordillera (Asturias and Cantabria, Spain) have been analyzed from an anthracological (charcoal analysis) point of view. The data obtained indicates that the regional landscape during the end of the Late Glacial was dominated by Juniperus and Betula (La Pila, Cantabria), Betula and Pinus (Los Azules, Asturias). The appearance of Castanea sativa in the final Pleistocene beds at La Pila supports prior conclusions that this species is indigenous to the north of Spain. The decline in abundance of Picea at La Pila indicates the last moments of this genus in the Cantabrian Cordillera. The vegetation during the beginning of the Holocene dated 9540  120 BP and 9430  120 BP at Los Azules, is dominated by Pinus sylvestris and Quercus robur. 
10.2307/3514640| One problem in Early Devonian phytogeography is determining the extent to which regional taxonomic usage rather than differences in the distribution of fossil plants determine phytogeographic units. Because the same Early Devonian phytogeographic units can be delineated based on the paleogeographic distribution of either fossil genera or plants traits, this suggests that the observed phytogeography is real and not caused by regional taxonomic usage. In the Early Devonian, there are three major phytogeographic units, Australian, Kazakhstan-north Gondwanan, and Equatorial-middle latitude. Within the Equatorial-middle latitude unit, there are three regions that show phytogeographic differentiation: Siberia-north Laurussia, south Laurussia, and China. The following genera characterized each unit and subunit; Yarravia and Hedeia (Australian unit); Cooksonia (Kazakhstan-north Gondwanan unit); Rebuchia and Protobarinophyton-Barinophyton (Siberian-north Laurussian subunit); Renalia and Gosslingia (south Laurussian subunit); and Hsa (Chinese subunit). The Australian unit and the Siberian-north Laurussian subunit lie in the Early Devonian middle latitudes on some reconstructions, and may have experienced a seasonal climate. The traits that characterized this unit and subunit involve clustered sporangia, synangia, and clustered terminal sporangia (Australian unit); and strobili, and sporangia clustered on one side of a stem (Siberian-north Laurussian subunit). Clustered sporangia may have protected spores from desiccation or cold temperatures during seasonal dry or cool periods. Multivariate statistical techniques (cluster analysis and polar ordination analysis) were used to delineate phytogeographic units in this study. Multivariate analysis of generic data sets excludes unnamed plant fossils and single-locality endemics, because the latter add no information. Further, the inclusion of many lowdiversity assemblages can distort the results of a generic analysis. Trait analysis can include all the described plant fossils present in an assemblage. Because low- and high-diversity assemblages have similar numbers of traits, this method also masks diversity differences between assemblages. Trait analysis may thus yield better results than generic analysis for intervals with many single-locality endemics, unnamed plant fossils, or low-diversity assemblages. 
10.2307/3515540|The La Paz area in the southwestern Gulf of California, Mexico, provides an ideal site for studying Recent warm-temperate to subtropical carbonate environments. Carbonate factories include small pocket bays, a rhodolith dominated carbonate shelf, and a mixed-carbonate siliciclastic high-energy beach. Underwater mapping and constituent analysis have revealed free-living coralline red algae in the form of rhodoliths to be the main carbonate producers, contributing 33% of the biogenic constituents to the sediment. Other significant contributions come from corals (20%), molluscs (18%), echinoderms (5%), and benthic foraminifera (4%). The benthic foraminiferal community includes mixtures of tropical and temperate species. This compositional pattern stands in marked contrast to (1) better-studied coral and green algae dominated tropical carbonate systems and (2) foraminifer, bryozoan, and mollusc dominated cool-water carbonates. Cluster analyses of biogenic constituents and benthic foraminifera revealed distinctive coral, coralline red algal, and molluscan microfacies. However, subdivisions characterized by benthic foraminifera more closely reflect the bottom facies observed during underwater mapping as opposed to patterns defined by cluster analysis of biogenic components. Diagnostic features for interpreting similar environments found in the fossil record include the (1) co-occurrence of coralline red algae and corals together with the absence of calcareous green algae, (2) presence of 5-10 genera of larger benthic foraminifera, (3) laterally and vertically not extensive character of environments, and (4) changes of microfacies over short distances.
27670307|In a companion study to earlier work in the Indo-Pacific, taphonomic alteration in reef-coral death assemblages was assessed in four distinct reef habitats ranging from 230 m water depth in the Florida Keys reef tract. Physical and biological taphonomic attributes measured from coral specimens showed great variability with respect to reef environment. Physico-chemical degradation (abrasion and dissolution) was greatest in reef-crest and patch-reef environments. With the exception of encrusting foraminifera, coverage by epi- and endobionts was higher in deep-reef environments (20 m and 30 m). Variability in dissolution and abrasion is likely the result of the different energy regimes present in the reef habitats examined. Variability in biological attributes results from a combination of increased residence time of coral skeletons on substrates in deep-reef environments, higher overall coral skeletal densities of corals inhabiting deep reef environments, and increased nutrient availability in the deep reefs sampled. Clear gradients in the degree of taphonomic alteration of reef corals with reef habitat indicate the utility of corals as taphofacies indicators in ancient reef settings. In contrast to shallow-water reefs on the Great Barrier Reef, taphonomic alteration of corals in the Florida Keys was equitable across growth forms.
10.2307/3515007|The trace fossil Thalassinoides, a common constituent of the Zoophycos and Glossifungites ichnofacies, is abundant in post-Paleozoic rocks. Modern Thalassinoides-like burrows are constructed by a variety of marine organisms, most importantly decapod crustaceans such as thalassinid shrimp, in modern intertidal and shallow subtidal environments. Lower Paleozoic examples of Thalassinoides are poorly documented despite the abundance of Ordovician "burrow mottled" shelf limestone that is generally thought to represent dense populations of Thalassinoides burrows. The paleontological record of decapods begins only in the Devonian, and thus, a considerable time gap exists between the early occurrences of Thalassinoides burrows and the oldest fossils of organisms most commonly associated with their construction, particularly in post-Paleozoic forms. Specimens of a new ichnospecies of Thalassinoides from the lower Paleozoic Manitou and Peerless formations of Colorado, herein defined as Thalassinoides horizontalis, consist of bedding-parallel polygonal networks of smooth-walled, unlined, horizontally branching burrows. Burrows form both Y- and T-junctions but contain no swellings at junctions or elsewhere. They consist of a narrow diameter tube or inner core (<4 mm) and a 3-4 mm outer wall, the latter representing a diagenetic halo formed around a mucus-impregnated burrow. Five styles of preservation relate to the presence or absence of burrow-fill and patterns of mineral replacement and weathering. The extremely small burrow diameters, lack of some features such as scratchings and swellings, absence of vertical shafts, and the common regularity of branching separates this new ichnospecies from other Thalassinoides ichnospecies in either Paleozoic or post-Paleozoic strata. Thalassinoides horizontalis burrows were not made by large decapod crustaceans like those that made post-Paleozoic Thalassinoides, but by small crustaceans or, more likely, soft-bodied organisms that made semi-permanent to permanent tunnels within firmground sediment. The open-framework burrow systems may record the activities of some of the oldest vagile suspension feeders to colonize infaunal habitats.
40606526|A single, low-density (1.58 g/cm), phosphatic coprolite recovered from a fluvial Triceratops site in the Upper Cretaceous Hell Creek Formation of eastern Montana contains small quantities of minute bone or tooth fragments, kerogenized plant residues (pollen, spores, sporangia, and cuticle), hyphae of probable fungal origin, and small detrital mineral grains in a fine-grained, highly porous matrix. Roughly 30% of the matrix, composed almost entirely of microcrystalline francolite (carbonate-fluorapatite), is composed of thin-walled vesicles of roughly spherical shape, 0.5-3 m in diameter. These vesicles are interpreted as mineral pseudomorphs of organic particles, probably including fecal bacteria, existing in the original scat. This structurally well-preserved coprolite is likely derived from the scat of a bone-digesting carnivorous animal, contains much or all of the autochthonous apatite of the original scat, and lacks permineralization that commonly produces a densely lithified object of low porosity. This is the first detailed description of a coprolite of this type from Mesozoic fluvial deposits. This evidence supports the view that dietary calcium phosphate could precipitate rapidly in the scat of ancient carnivorous animals, providing the structural strength to allow preservation of internal organic forms in great detail.
27670335|During the geologic history of crinoids, many groups have modified their distal stems to function as anchors in soft sediments, but more so in the Paleozoic than in later times. Major strategies were passively implanting anchors, cirral root systems, coils, and stemless reclining. In Paleozoic roots, the stereom usually consists of crystallographically individualized ossicles, but articulations may be hidden by a tough cuticle that protected the living tissue of immersed parts and stiffened them with cortical stereom. Post-Paleozoic representatives produced similar anchoring structures by different fabricational pathways, including non-articulated root systems.
10.2307/3514974|Recent and subfossil calcareous structures similar to Paleozoic marine problematic fossils known as Wetheredella Wood, 1948 have been found in a sea-linked, mildly alkaline crater lake on Satonda Island, Indonesia. They are generated by calcifying mats of coccoid cyanobacteria (Pleurocapsa group) growing in crypts and crevices between the foliaceous thalli of calcareous red algae and agglomerations of nubecullinid foraminifers which form small reefs along the lake shore. The Wetheredella-like structures occur at depths ranging from near the water surface down to about 8 m. They are produced by: A) periodic in vivo calcification of surfaces of subglobular cyanobacterial aggregates by Mg calcite, and B) by early post-mortem permineralization of subsurficially located, decaying coccoid cell clusters with microbially mediated aragonite. Periodic in vivo calcification of the mat surface is controlled by seasonal changes in calcium carbonate supersaturation in the epilimnion. Several other problematic fossils such as Aphralysia Garwood, 1914, Asphaltina Mamet, 1972, Asphaltinella Mamet et Roux, 1978, Sphaeroporella Antropov, 1967, and Koskinobullina Cherchi et Schroeder, 1979, which are strikingly similar to the vesicular/tubuloid microbial structures from Satonda Crater Lake, could have, by analogy, also been produced by calcified mats of pleurocapsalean cyanobacteria. They must have thrived in presumably excessively alkaline and calcium carbonate highly supersaturated basins of the paleo-epicontinental seas.
10.2307/3514493|The Normandville oilfield in the Peace River district of north-central Alberta produces oil and gas from a stromatoporoid patch reef about 70 m below the top of the Wabamun Formation. Fracturing of the limestone associated with a set of northwest-southeast striking faults has increased the porosity of the reservoir. The patch reef and its associated facies constitute the Normandville zone. The reef is 1.5 km<sup>2</sup> in area and 10 m thick. The following lithofacies are distinguished in the zone: 1) the platform facies of nodular limestone that overlies and underlies the reef, 2) the reef facies of stromatoporoid framestone and boundstone with minor rudstone, floatstone, and grainstone, 3) the reef-margin facies of stromatoporoid floatstone and rudstone with minor brachiopod and crinoid wackestone and packstone, 4) the cap facies of peloidal and skeletal grainstone, and 5) the off-reef facies of peloidal and skeletal wackestones and packstones. The stromatoporoid fauna of five species is dominated by two species, one of Labechia and the other of Stylostroma. Stromatoporoids were reduced in numbers and diversity at the Frasnianl Famennian extinction event but retained the ability to make reefs. Famennian faunas contain remnants of Frasnian genera and are marked by the resurgence of the order Labechiida. We review the world distribution of Famennian and Strunian stromatoporoids and revise generic assignments of many species. On a global scale, we find the faunas divided into three assemblages: 1) labechiids characterized by Stylostroma, 2) mixed labechiids and clathrodictyids with species of Atelodictyon, and 3) clathrodictyids without labechiids. The third assemblage is confined to western Europe and Kazakhstan in areas of the late Devonian Paleotethys ocean.
10.2307/3514917|Over 30 examples of a large, complex dwelling trace have been observed within the Escondido Formation (Maastrichtian) of South Texas. With average lengths of 120 cm and diameters of 26 cm, these biogenic structures are among the largest trace fossils ever reported. Of equal importance is the location of the traces along an erosional ravinement surface separating ebb-tidal delta sandstones of the Fortress Bluff submember and shelf shales of the Evans Bluff submember. This marine-flooding surface thus forms the upper boundary to the Fortress Bluff parasequence. This upward-shallowing parasequence is part of the upward-deepening retrogradational parasequence set constituted by the Escondido Formation. The dwelling traces are cylindrical to funnel-shaped structures, with opening diameters in the range of 30 to 50 cm, narrowing downward to a point. Burrow spacings are remarkably uniform with an average interburrow distance of 91 cm and a standard deviation of only 18 cm. Burrows truncate or distort physical sedimentary structures of the sandstones, with deformation rims ranging from 2 to 15 cm in width. Within the large dwelling traces are smaller (1-2 cm diameter) burrow tubes which in places are lined by oyster shell fragments. These may represent feeding traces of another organism which lived in a quasi-symbiotic relationship with the excavator of the large shafts. The great size of the trace points to excavation by a large vertebrate, possibly a forerunner of the tilefish which occupy long vertical burrows in the area of the modern Hudson submarine canyon (USA). The traces are much larger than those known to be formed by stingrays or sea anemones. The presence of deeper water organisms such as tilefish may relate to the rapid landward shift of habitats during the transgression which terminated deposition of the Fortress Bluff parasequence. The name Communichnus is offered for these unusual biogenic structures which differ in many ways from feeding/dwelling traces like Rosselia and Conostichus. This name reflects the composite nature of the trace as well as the co-occurrence of at least 30 individual traces penetrating the upper surface of a relatively small sand body.
10.2307/3515171|The "Pinecrest Sand," an abundantly fossiliferous Late Pliocene deposit best exposed near Sarasota, Florida, is a poorly understood stratigraphic unit of considerable paleobiological interest because of its geographic and temporal position and extremely abundant and diverse mollusk fauna. The absolute age of this unit has been a subject of some debate, and has considerable implications for its taphonomic history. Evaluation of published and unpublished data indicates that the Pinecrest at Sarasota spans more than one million years, the lower beds having been deposited between 3.5 and 3.0 Ma and the upper beds between 2.5 and 2.0 Ma. Paleoenvironmental data, some previously published and some presented here for the first time, suggest that water depths during Pinecrest deposition varied between 30-50 m and 1-2 m, and that water temperatures were somewhat cooler than those existing at these depths in the region today, possibly as a result of upwelling. Preliminary taphonomic data, most presented here for the first time, are consistent with an important role for time-averaging and stratigraphic condensation by sediment winnowing, together with at least occasionally high levels of biological productivity. These results support a role for biological productivity change in affecting both the taxonomic composition and taphonomic pattern of low-latitude fossil biotas in the Western Atlantic in the Late Neogene.
10.2307/3514918|Scalpellomorphs were a major component of the benthic marine fauna that flourished during deposition of pelagic and hemipelagic muds that today comprise chalky and marly sediments of the Fairport Member, Carlile Shale, in Kansas. Primary inhabitants of oozy Fairport sediments were inoceramid bivalves, among which recumbent, meter-sized Inoceramus cuvieri furnished stable platforms upon which most epizoic macroinvertebrates depended for survival. Within these isolated platform communities the abundance, associations, and distribution of epizoans suggest the following colonization order: 1) Pseudoperna and Placunopsis (?); 2) Serpula; 3) scalpellomorphs; 4) acrothoracic cirripeds and bryozoans. Abundance and excellent preservation of Fairport scalpellomorphs place that unit in rivalry with the Niobrara Chalk as repository of the world's greatest concentration of articulated stalked Cretaceous cirripeds. Among six or possibly seven Fairport scalpellomorph species, there are three that are known from articulated specimens; of these, Stramentum elegans is by far the most abundant. All three species occur as epizoans on I. cuvieri, and S. elegans was epizoic also on Collignoniceras and on other epizoans of I. cuvieri in the following order of abundance: Serpula, other specimens of Stramentum, Pseudoperna, and Placunopsis. Presence of scalpellomorphs in a given Fairport assemblage signifies elevated levels of benthic energy and relatively well-oxygenated bottom water. Scalpellomorphs commonly manifest strongly preferred orientation that could reflect current alignment, but examples of random orientation, orientation of adjacent specimens in opposing directions, and alignment of specimens entrapped beneath inoceramid growth lamellae suggest that factors such as shell structure or overturning of host I. cuvieri by predators contributed to the observed distribution. Scalpellomorphs commonly hosted epizoic bryozoans, which clearly encrusted both living and dead cirripeds. If buried quickly, dead cirripeds remained fully articulated, whereas slow burial or reexposure of dead specimens resulted in partial disarticulation. Exhumation of cirripeds by bottom currents caused complete disarticulation, contributing debris to skeletal lag concentrates.
10.2307/3515249|The oxygen isotope composition of tooth enamel phosphate (<sub>P</sub>) from cheek teeth in jaws of modern equids is compared with that of fossil equids from Thomson and Burge quarries (Miocene, Nebraska) to determine if paleobiologic and taphonomic signatures are preserved in the <sub>P</sub> of fossil teeth. Three distinct patterns of <sub>P</sub> variation are found in modern and fossil jaws. Each pattern can be related to the season of birth. An oxygen isotope mass balance model that incorporates seasonality and nursing of foals during tooth enamel mineralization is used to interpret the <sub>P</sub> pattern along the toothrow. The range of <sub>P</sub> for the same tooth position among "Merychippus" primus jaws from Thomson Quarry is relatively small (2.2%o), and the cheek tooth <sub>P</sub> pattern is similar among individual jaws. This is comparable to a modern living population and consistent with a taphonomic interpretation of catastrophic accumulation for the Thomson "M." primus population. The range of <sub>P</sub> for the same tooth position among Pseudhipparion retrusum jaws from Burge Quarry is larger (4%o), and the cheek tooth <sub>P</sub> patterns are not similar among individual jaws. This is consistent with an attritional accumulation over a long period of time. Such wide ranges in <sub>P</sub> limit application to continental paleoclimate reconstruction because of the low signal to noise ratio.
3514477|A diversity gradient and endemic patterns that are a function of latitude are evident in the ammonoid biogeography of the Pliensbachian. High diversity, Tethyan faunas are dominated by the families Hildoceratidae and Dactylioceratidae whereas the less diverse faunas of the northern part of the Northern Hemisphere are dominated by the Amaltheidae and Liparoceratidae. The biogeography of North American Pliensbachian faunas is examined quantitatively to provide constraints on the tectonic movement of suspect terranes along the western margin of the craton. Standards of reference by which to measure displacement are provided by low-diversity, autochthonous Boreal faunas on the craton as far south as southern Alberta, and higher diversity, Tethyan faunas on the Sonomia terrane in western Nevada, which was accreted in Triassic time. Diversity and similarity coefficients are high for Sonomia and three suspect terranes (Wrangellia, Stikinia, and Quesnellia); this reflects their mutual Tethyan affinities and the pervasive presence of the east Pacific ammonite Fanninoceras. Much weaker, but still significant similarity coefficients between the faunas on the suspect terranes and the Boreal Craton fauna result from the gradational area ofBoreal-Tethyan overlap passing across the northern regions of the suspect terranes. These biogeographic data constrain the latitudinal position of the suspect terranes with respect to the North American continent and also indicate that the suspect terranes were in the Northern rather than the Southern Hemisphere and in the eastern rather than the western Pacific during the Pliensbachian. Evident migration of various molluscs between the eastern Pacific and western Tethyan oceans suggests the presence of a rifted seaway, the Hispanic Corridor, through the Caribbean and along the North Atlantic, that preceded spreading and the formation of oceanic crust.
10.2307/3515079|A mixed assemblage of lucinid and mussel shells were placed in mesh bags and left at a site of autochthonous death assemblage formation in a petroleum seep community on the Louisiana upper continental slope for a period of 3 yr. Upon recovery, the shells were assessed for taphonomic alteration and compared to a control assemblage of unaltered shells. The data verify a basic assumption of taphofacies analysis; that evidence of taphonomic processes preserved with the assemblage does in fact document the primary taphonomic processes that biased the assemblage from the original assemblage of living preservable organisms. Significant variability in taphonomic rates existed between shells from locations 10 m apart, as is typical of autochthonous assemblages, so that small-scale variability in the taphonomic process was important. Mussels were more severely altered than lucinids. Mussels were more heavily dissolved, had more altered edges, were more prone to fragmentation and exhibited greater weight loss (=carbonate loss) than did the lucinids. The estimated residence time for mussels on the continental slope is approximately 3 to 15 yr. Lucinids may be indefinitely preserved. The observed discrepancy between the dominance of lucinids at fossil seeps and the frequent dominance of mussels at recent seeps can be explained by biased preservation favoring the lucinids.
41317456|Exposures of the Chinle Formation in Petrified Forest National Park (PEFO), Arizona, preserve one of the most important Upper Triassic terrestrial faunal assemblages in the world: in it are found key elements in the global and regional correlation of continental deposits of Upper Triassic age. Rare components of the Chinle Formation faunal assemblage, including dinosaurs and small-bodied amniotes, appear to be mostly restricted to distinctive blue-colored horizons observed at only a few sites in PEFO. The blue sites represent paleosols formed in finegrained, abandoned channel fills and contrast markedly with red-colored floodplain deposits and paleosols that characterize most fossil localities in the Chinle Formation. The distinctive blue color is interpreted as a weathered feature of hydromorphically reduced iron. The coincidence of rare taxa and sites bearing the blue-colored paleosols suggests that the stratigraphie positions of the sites and the rare taxa they contain appear to relate to fluvial sequence tracts in PEFO and may not reflect the true stratigraphie ranges of these taxa.
27670585|Most research regarding ecological response to extinction in the fossil record focuses on qualitative, taxonomically based analyses. Shifting to quantitative analyses that incorporate paleocommunity-level data offers a richer ecological perspective on how paleocommunities respond to extinction. During the Late Ordovician (Mohawkian), a regional extinction occurred among marine taxa in the Appalachian Basin of eastern North America. To examine community-level paleoecological change across this extinction boundary, field censusing of macroinvertebrate genera was completed for the Nashville Dome of Tennessee, the Jessamine Dome of central Kentucky, and the Valley and Ridge area of western Virginia. In each region, shallow and deep subtidal environments were sampled in four stratigraphic sequences representing preextinction and postextinction intervals (M3 and M4 sequences and M5 and M6 sequences, respectively). Diversity metrics calculated from subsampled field data generally decrease across the extinction boundary and into the M6 sequence, with more significant declines in the deep subtidal facies and Virginia samples. These facies and regional differences in diversity reflect environmental and geographic variability not only in the effects of the extinction but also in the extent of immigration of new taxa to different areas of the basin. Despite diversity declines, evenness varies little among sequences, facies, and regions across the extinction boundary, suggesting no major change to the relative abundance structure of paleocommunities. Analyses of shifts in ecospace use (particularly tiering and motility of taxa) and multivariate ordination, however, also reveal strong environmental and geographic differences in ecological response due to changes in rank abundance of common taxa.
41317443|Integrated Plant Record (IPR) vegetation analysis is a semi-quantitative tool developed as a proxy to assess zonal vegetation classification. It is based on fossil plant taxa categorized into zonal taxonomic-physiognomic components reflecting key autecological characteristics. The proportions of these components in the fossil assemblages define the main vegetation types. Modern vegetation studies in areas of South China (Mount Emei, Mount Longqi, Meili Snow Mountains) and in Japan (Shirakami Sanchi, Mount Fuji, Nara, Yokohama, Yakushima Island) are performed here to test this fossil-based technique and achieve fine-tuning and corroboration. Thirty-five units of different vegetation types generally defined as broadleaved evergreen forests, mixed mesophytic forests, broad-leaved deciduous forests, and subhumid sclerophyllous forests were investigated. IPR vegetation analysis results obtained from this modern vegetation largely support the originally defined proportions of the important zonal woody angiosperm groups, i. e., broad-leaved deciduous, broad-leaved evergreen, sclerophyllous, and legume-type components, and cluster analysis also confirms these results. Nonetheless, the data suggest that the new definition of ecotones and adaption of the threshold value of the broadleaved evergreen component for the definition of broad-leaved evergreen forests are necessary. The results of this study of modern vegetation reveal a distinct underrepresentation of zonal herbs in the fossil record, regardless of whether dealing with leaf, pollen, or fruit assemblages. The vegetation scheme based on IPR vegetation analysis is therefore extended to properly reflect the zonal herb diversity present in modern vegetation. The results also confirm a higher diversity of zonal herbs in modern broad-leaved deciduous versus broad-leaved evergreen forests, as observed in the Neogene European record.
20173034|Fossil wood fragments and an associated species-rich invertebrate assemblage, analogous to those found on wood falls in the deep sea today, were found in late Eocene deep-water sediments of the Lincoln Creek Formation in Washington State, United States. This assemblage is the earliest known complex deep-sea biologic community based on decaying wood as its primary source of nutrients. The 495 recovered fossils (exclusive of foraminiferans) belong to 21 species; 7 species relied directly on the wood, either by ingesting it or by feeding on xylophagous microbes; these species are also the most abundant. Seven species were predators or scavengers that were most likely attracted by the wood-dependent species. The remaining seven species represent predators, detritus feeders, and suspension feeders that may or may not have had a relation to the wood fall or its fauna. All species had a benthic mode of life, and pseudoplanktonic taxa are absent, indicating that the colonization of the wood began only once it had arrived on the deep-sea floor. The wood-dependent species belong to taxa that fill the same ecologic niche in the deep sea today, indicating that the modern wood-fall ecosystem had evolved at least by late Eocene time, There is no uniformity or specialization of dispersal strategies among the recovered taxa; they rather reflect those of the phylogenetic group to which they belong. The wood-fall assemblage described here shares several families with fossil whale falls and cold seeps but very few species, a condition that can also be observed at modern examples of these ecosystems.
10.2307/3515324|Sea-level changes in the upper Colorado Group of south-eastern Alberta, Western Canada, are expressed in the Medicine Hat Formation and First White Speckled Shale, and can be documented through paleontological analysis. Presently, the Medicine Hat Formation is actively explored for its large, biogenic gas reserves. Combined macrofossil, microfossil, nannofossil, and dinoflagellate biostratigraphy reflect a Santonian age for these units. Fossil analysis indicates that during Late Cretaceous time the Sweetgrass Arch was a bathymetric high on which a shallow marine environment developed within an otherwise relatively deep-water basin, creating conditions for deposition of Medicine Hat Formation sands. The overlying First White Speckled Shale was deposited during a time of sea-level highstand during the Niobrara cycle of deposition. In southeastern Alberta, however, a series of short-lived, relative sea-level falls during late Santonian time resulted in siltstone deposition and development of the Sweetgrass Member in the Colorado Group and similar units on the western flank of the Sweetgrass Arch. During such events, marginal marine conditions, including possibly increased input of detrital material or lower salinities, caused a reduction of nannofossil diversity and near absence of planktic foraminifera. In the past, the coarser-grained Sweetgrass Member has been miscorrelated with the Medicine Hat sandstone. Paleontological data analyzed in our study, however, clearly demonstrate a higher stratigraphic position for the Sweetgrass Member, within the First White Speckled Shale. The base of the Sweetgrass Member and the boundary between the First White Speckled Shale and the overlying Mill Creek/Lea Park Formations are marked by erosional unconformities, each of which is overlain by siltstone and sandstone. Because the Medicine Hat Formation and Sweetgrass Member are thin, paleontological evidence provides a reliable tool for stratigraphic placement, whereas correlation based solely on lithology may lead to erroneous results.
10.2307/3514916| Field observations of four common tropical Western Atlantic regular echinoids, Diadema antillarum, Eucidaris tribuloides, Echinometra lucunter and Tripneustes ventricosus, reveal that they are reduced to essentially bleached skeletons, devoid of organic material, within six days of death. This suggests that, in the absence of organic connective tissues, the degree to which stereom interlocks across plate sutures may become an important factor in determining the amount of breakage suffered by the corona in response to biostratinomic processes. Although studies of the microstructure of the echinoid test, as well as much anecdotal information, suggest differences in stereomic interlocking could have an effect on preservation potential, no attempt has been made to correlate these factors quantitatively. Decay experiments with specimens of Diadema, Echinometra and Eucidaris indicate that a similar sequence of disarticulation occurs as a result of the decay of connective tissues. The spines detach, followed by the loss of the peristomial and apical plates, and Aristotle's Lantern. Finally the corona disarticulates along ambulacral plate sutures. However, the timing of disarticulation differs for each species: spines of Diadema begin to detach after one day of decay whereas those of Echinometra detach after three days and those of Eucidaris detach after periods exceeding five days. Coronas of Diadema and Eucidaris were observed to disarticulate within seven and ten days of decay, respectively. Coronas of Echinometra did not disarticulate after 12 days of decay. Tumbling experiments using bleached carcasses of the echinoids were conducted to assess whether there are phylogenetically-controlled differences in coronal breakage. Calculation of a breakage coefficient reveals that the amount of breakage varies significantly ( = 0.05) among species. Diadema suffer the most breakage, with an average breakage coefficient of 173.47. Echinometra suffer the least breakage, exhibiting an average coefficient value of 4.65. Specimens of Eucidaris and Tripneustes fall within this range, with values of 89.36 and 34.31, respectively; four states of coronal disarticulation are discriminated based on tumbling results. Using data derived from the primary literature, the preservational states of all fossil type species assigned to the families represented by the echinoids under study were also characterized. Statistical comparison of the predicted distributions of taphonomic states discriminated by tumbling experiments with those observed in the fossil record (based on literature data) reveal that although the distribution of taphonomic states is different between families, no significant ( = 0.05) differences exist between predicted and observed distributions within the families Cidaridae, Echinometridae and Toxopneustidae. Predicted and observed distributions are significantly ( = 0.05) different from each other for the Diadematidae, emphasizing the extreme fragility of the Diadematid corona. Results of this study illustrate the predictive power of actualistic and experimental taphonomic studies for better understanding the diversity history of a particular group. 
10.2307/3515514|The first detailed reconstruction of the continental paleoclimate evolution of the Northwest German Tertiary (Late Oligocene to Pliocene) is presented. The paleoclimate data are derived from the paleobotanical record using the coexistence approach, a method recently introduced that employs climatic requirements of the Nearest Living Relatives of a fossil flora. Twenty six megafloras (fruits and seeds, leaves, woods) from the Tertiary succession of the Lower Rhine Basin and neighboring areas are analyzed with respect to ten meteorological parameters. Additionally, two sample sets from Late Miocene to Early Pliocene sediments comprising 396 palynofloras are analyzed by the same method providing a higher temporal resolution. The temperature curves show a comparatively cooler phase in the Late Oligocene, a warm interval the Middle Miocene, and a cooling starting at 14 Ma. The cooling trend persisted until Late Pliocene with a few higher frequency temperature variations observed. From the beginning of Late Miocene to the present, the seasonality increases and climate appears to have been less stable. As indicated by the precipitation data, a Cfa climate with wet summers persisted in NW Germany from Late Oligocene to Late Pliocene. The results obtained are well in accordance with regional and global isotope curves derived from the marine record, and allow for a refined correlation of the Tertiary succession in the Lower Rhine Basin with the international standard. It is shown that the reconstructed data are largely consistent with the continental climate record for the Northern Hemisphere, as reported by various authors. Discrepancies with previous reconstructions are discussed in detail.
10.2307/3515224|In the Upper Permian reef complex of southern Tunisia and in Triassic (Ladinian, lower Carnian) carbonate platforms and patch reefs of the Dolomites (Italy) cushion- and pillar-shaped finely laminated structures occur which in growth form and structure strongly resemble cyanobacterial stromatolites. They consist of regular alternations of micritic (or cement) and microsparitic layers. Micritic and cement layers are 0.09 to 0.9 mm thick, with the thickness of the microsparitic layers varying from 0.05 to 5 mm. The latter show a patchily preserved structure of parallel-arranged polygonal cells which are 0.04 to 0.12 mm wide. The majority of these layers consists of one cell-layer only, but some are composed of several cell-layers. The faintly preserved calcitized cell walls are obviously recrystallized. The cell structure is similar to that of solenoporacean algae which occur in the same environment as the stromatolites. In contrast to the generally assumed Mg-calcitic composition of the Solenoporaceae, the cell walls of crustose solenoporaceans from the Carnian of the Dolomites are still aragonite. Judging from their poorly preserved wall structure, the examined Permian and Triassic stromatolitic Solenoporaceae were also probably originally aragonitic. It appears that prior to, or during an early stage of calcification, these solenoporacean algae were capable of trapping fine sediment. The muddy veneers were periodically resettled by the algae. The regular lamination and the periodical influx of muddy sediment probably reflect annual fluctuations of precipitation in nearby land areas. Growth form and lamination of the solenoporacean stromatolites resemble the Problematicum Collenella Johnson (1942) which is a common frame-building organism in the Permian reef complex of Texas/New Mexico (USA). Due to its poorly preserved internal structure, the systematic position of Collenella has hitherto remained enigmatic.
10.2307/3514533|A variety of patterns suggest that climatic cooling was the primary cause of the extinction of organic reef communities late in the Ordovician, Devonian, and Permian periods. Other potential agents exhibit serious deficiencies. Anoxic conditions, for example, cannot spread to surface waters. Eustatic sea-level lowering occurred during only two of the extinction intervals, and at other times during the Phanerozoic, lowering of sea level failed to produce mass extinction. Furthermore, sea-level drops precipitate an increase in the areas around volcanic islands available for reef growth. No iridium anomaly that might have resulted from a bolide impact has been found for any of the three Paleozoic crisis intervals, and each of these intervals spanned several million years. Patterns consistent with the idea that climatic cooling caused heavy extinction of Paleozoic reef communities are the following: 1) Non-tropical marine taxa suffered less severe extinction than tropical groups, presumably because many of their species were able to migrate equatorward. 2) During the protracted Ordovician and Permian crises, biogeographic provinces contracted toward the equator. 3) For each crisis, a disproportionately large percentage of surviving taxa were cosmopolitan in distribution. 4) In the aftermath of each event, carbonate production was reduced. 5) Reef-building was suppressed for several million years after each crisis, even though potential reef-builders survived. 6) Each mass extinction approximately coincided with the initiation of a glacial interval in a polar region.
20172995|Six populations of seeds of the aquatic monocotyledon Stratiotes (Hydrocharitaceae) from the Paleogene of England have been studied to assess morphological evolution through the Eocene-Oligocene transition. Morphometric methodologies (including eigenshape analysis) have been used to quantify evolution within the genus and compare results to previous qualitative studies. Previously hypothesized broad evolutionary trends of increasing size and more elongate shape are found to be mainly correct, but, in places, can be elucidated further. The results of this study indicate a single evolving lineage in the Paleogene of southern England with an increase in seed size and keel width in late Eocene specimens, followed by a reversal of this trend in the early Oligocene. Two Miocene populations from continental Europe are shown to be morphologically distinct from those of the English Paleogene. Changes in overall shape of the seed are shown to be controlled dominantly by the relative size of the keel structure, rather than the seed body. Comparisons show that the microevolutionary trend of Stratiotes across the Eocene-Oligocene transition differs from that of the charophyte, Harrisichara. This may suggest that factors other than climatic change, such as animal / plant interactions, played a role in evolution of Stratiotes seeds. Type and figured material of named Paleogene species was added passively to the dataset, and results suggest that taxonomic splitting may have led to previous evolutionary hypotheses of multiple clades, which is not supported by this study.
10.2307/3515009|This paper discusses postembryonic early mode of life in Carboniferous goniatites based on analysis of ammonoid assemblages and calculation of total shell densities of actual specimens. Co-occurrence of embryonic and postembryonic shells appears common in Carboniferous Goniatitina, as confirmed in Homoceras, Homoceratoides, Vallites, and Reticuloceras from the Middle Carboniferous (Namurian) of west Ireland and England, in Tumulites, Cravenoceras and Eumorphoceras from the Upper Mississippian (Chesteran) of Texas, and in Aristoceras and Vidrioceras from the Upper Pennsylvanian (Virgilian) of Kansas. Embryonic and postembryonic shells of these genera occur in ammonoid-packed calcium carbonate concretions (bullions) or in black bituminous limestone beds, together with rare shells of bactritoid cephalopods, brachiopods, bivalves and gastropods. They appear to not have been transported a long distance because of the absence of a preferred orientation, size sorting and apparent shell abrasion or fragmentation. Buoyancy calculation of specimens of 12 species belonging to 8 genera including Homoceras, Aristoceras, and Vidrioceras from several fossil localities shows that the total shell densities at hatching remain almost constant among these species and can be approximated to that of seawater (=neutral buoyancy). These lines of evidence strongly suggest a similarity in the biostratinomic properties of empty shells between post-hatching juvenile stage and middle-late ontogeny. In all probability, in most Carboniferous Goniatitina, a newly hatched ammonoid had a nektobenthic or nektic mode of life, as has been postulated for adult animals.
3515848|Many early Tertiary nummulitic limestones contain broken Nummulites tests (commonly referred to as nummulithoclastic debris) that display breakage ranging from damage to the terminal chamber, to disintegration into sand- and silt-sized (and probably finer) fragments. Little consideration previously has been given to the processes responsible for this damage, or whether test abrasion can be used as an indicator of the degree of transportation or wave reworking. Studies of modern larger benthic foraminifera suggest that transport-induced abrasion is a likely candidate for the test damage seen in many fossil Nummulites. However, experimental reconstruction of the transportation of Nummulites within a traction carpet of skeletal material, using the structurally similar and related extant form Palaeonummulites venosus, failed to reproduce the degree of test damage seen in fossil forms, despite simulating transport up to approximately 71 km. Evidence from experimental and field observations suggests that the additional damage noted in Eocene Nummulites possibly is the result of transportation within turbidity currents and/or predation by relatively large bioeroders, such as fish and echinoids. Processes such as dissolution and microboring are considered to have played only a minor, if any, role in the comminution of Nummulites. These observations have been used to define a scale of taphonomic features observed in fossil Nummulites, to aid identification of autochthonous and allochthonous Nummulites populations in thin-section studies of nummulitic limestones, and to facilitate comparison between different facies and carbonate-platform environments.
27670338|Sedimentary and palynofacies analysis, total organic carbon content (TOC), and palynology from a densely sampled, small, lignite-bearing succession of Late Miocene age at Badersdorf, SE Austria, were compared with modern wetland ecologies. From this, six hydrologically controlled palynofacies types and six associated paleo-plant habitats in an ancient wetland system were differentiated. The associated woody and herbaceous hinterland flora also were distinguished. At least four horizons with relatively high fusinite content have been preserved, indicating occurrence of paleo-wildfires in either the wetland or the hinterland. The palynofacies types were used to determine the taphonomic bias of the associated palynomorph assemblages, which, together with a comparison with modern wetland vegetation, led to differentiation of the paleo-plant habitats. The paleo-wetland was dominated mainly by Glyptostrobus-containing vegetation, and comprised clastic swamp forests with woody angiosperms, natural levee forests, fern- and Glyptostrobus-dominated organic swamps, freshwater marshes, and wet prairies. The occurrence of more than 40 herbaceous taxa at this locality indicates that the lowland vegetation was not composed of only different closed-forest types, but also of areas with herbaceous vegetation. The more zonal vegetation of the adjacent hinterland has been interpreted as a mix of Pinaceae and woody angiosperms with patches of more herbaceous xeric layers.
40606488|Preexisting fossil collections, often the only source of data from sites that are no longer accessible, have been widely used in systematics but underutilized in quantitative paleontological studies. Here, the potential utility and limitations of materials obtained from preexisting collections is explored using a paleoecological case example (confamilial prdation by drilling naticid predators). Specimens of the gastropod Cochlis pseudoepiglottina were collected from a single locality (Nidolres outcrop, Pyrnes-Orientales Dpartement, southern France) of an unnamed, early Pliocene unit; the site is currently inaccessible. A statistical analysis of 183 specimens, representing three separate collections, indicates that these datasets are quantitatively consistent and provide interpretable numerical data on various aspects of drilling prdation patterns. Despite various limitations, the results indicate that (1) intense confamilial prdation affected C. pseudoepiglottina; (2) drilling attacks may have been size selective; (3) the frequency of failed attacks recorded by incomplete drill holes was high; and (4) the ratio of successful attacks declined dramatically with increase in snail size, suggesting a strong sizerefuge effect. Our interpretation is hampered by the exclusion of the smaller size classes of C. pseudoepiglottina and a lack of bulk-sampled, assemblage-level quantitative data on all fossil taxa at this taxonomically diverse site. Nevertheless, the results provide a useful addition to previous literature on drilling prdation, including quantitative data that are potentially applicable in meta-analytical compilations (e.g., prey effectiveness). Despite limitations, preexisting collectionsespecially those representing fossil sites that no longer exist or are inaccessiblecan yield useful quantitative data.
3515878|Three cruises surveying the eastern Australian shelf revealed the occurrence of coralline algal buildups at depths between 80 and 120 m in tropical (Capricorn area) and subtropical (off Fraser Island) settings. The buildups, decimeters to several meters high, started to grow on an erosion surface during the Holocene transgression in water depths within ~30 m of their present-day depth, and continued to present, as indicated by living covers of coralline algae. The buildup framework is a boundstone of encrusting coralline algae growing one over the other. The result is an open structure partially filled by mudstone topackstone internal sediment and minor marine cements, and affected by several phases of bioerosion. Mesophyllum is the main algal builder. Other melobesioids and Sporolithon appear in most samples. The tropical Capricorn buildups comprise algal assemblages slightly more diverse than the ones in the subtropical examples off Fraser Island. The buildup accretion involves many phases of framework growth, bioerosion, and sediment infilling at low average rates (maximum 2 to 3 cm/k.y.). These modern examples demonstrate that deepwater algal mounds can be coeval with shallow-water coral reefs and can be found in outer-platform and platform-edge deposits in ancient tropical platforms (e.g., Huon Gulf, Papua New Guinea). Upper Paleozoic phylloid algal mounds built by an open framework of Archaeolithophyllum crusts are similar to the northeastern Australian Mesophyllum-dominated boundstones, indicating they may have developed in similar deep-water, open-platform settings.
40606418|A three-dimensional reconstruction is provided of the composition, spatial distribution, and structure of a single-aged, Middle Pennsylvanian (Moscovian) peat-forming forest of a high-ash, planar (rheotrophic) mire, buried in situ by volcanic ash and preserved in the Lower Radnice Coal of the Radnice Basin (Czech Republic). The reconstruction is based on a detailed taxonomic and taphonomic analysis of fossils in a ~0.5-m-thick tuff bed at the base of the Whetstone Horizon excavated over an area of 93.5 m. In all, 24 whole-plant taxa of various growth forms were identified. This assemblage represents a lepidodendrid- and Cordaites borassifolius-dominated forest, with a well-developed understory of subarborescent lycopsids, tree ferns, medullosan pteridosperms, and calamites, as well as herbaceous ground cover. Lycopsids were dominated by Lepidodendron simile bearing Flemingites-tyye cones and L. lycopodioides; Lepidophloios cf. acerosus was subdominant. Lianas, mostly lyginopterid pteridosperms and some ferns, were usually found close to upright stems. The ground cover, mostly ferns and sphenophyllaleans, was taxonomically the most diverse stratum, although only a minor contributor to the peat. Based on samples from the coal roof, the palynological record is in agreement with the tuff bed assemblage except for the quantity of certain taxa. To reduce this bias, compression R-values were calculated from the percent cover of aerial plant parts in the excavation and in the dispersed palynoflora. These R-values suggest that in the palynological record, arborescent lycopsids and sphenophylls are greatly overrepresented, ferns and cordaites strongly underrepresented, and calamites are almost the same in both records.
27670501|The Kersadiou Formation is well known for its exceptional preservation, diversity, and abundance of mid-Devonian marine fossils. A complete faunal inventory of the Kersadiou Formation over its entire outcrop area is presented here for the first time. Twelve complete sections have been thoroughly sampled from the 28 known outcrops in the Rade de Brest area. The detailed vertical and geographic distribution of 149 identified taxa, coupled with multivariate analyses, allows us to recognize three benthic brachiopod-dominated associationsthe Holynetes, Ogorella, and Arcuaminetes associations. These associations reflect a progressive shallowing, which had been previously proposed based on lithological changes from the underlying Quelern Formation to the overlying Tibidy Formation. The corresponding environmental changes are from a protected or restricted marine environment, with a high diversity fauna (Holynetes association), to a shallower, open, higher-energy environment, characterized by a low-diversity assemblage (Arcuaminetes association); the Ogorella association occupies an intermediate position. While the three associations are well developed in the central and eastern parts of the Rade de Brest, only the Arcuaminetes association is well developed in the western outcrop area. This east-west distribution of faunas correlates with the paleoecological gradient evidenced in the studied area.
20173004|Using abundance data, this study explores quantitative patterns from marine benthos, including implications for paleogeography, depositional environment, stratigraphic position, taxonomic groups (brachiopod or mollusc), substrate preferences, and ecological niches. Twenty-nine brachiopod- and bivalve-dominated fossil assemblages from the Pennsylvanian and Early Permian of North and South America, Thailand, and Australia were analyzed from carbonate-platform environments; specifically, Nevada, Kansas, Oklahoma, Texas, Utah, New Mexico, Venezuela, Kanchanaburi (Thailand), and Queensland (Australia). Samples were categorized by paleogeographic location, depositional environment, and age to help differentiate factors controlling the faunal patterns. Pooled from primary and summary literature resources, 336,321 specimens were identified to genus level and classified in terms of taxonomic membership, substrate preference, and ecological niche. Data were analyzed using detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) and multi-response permutation procedure cross-validated a-priori categories (e.g., paleogeography, depositional environment, stratigraphic position, and specimen ecology). Multivariate analyses indicate that the separation between genera and the orthogonal trends implies that paleoecological patterns within the studied late Paleozoic faunal associations were influenced strongly by the abundance of sessile versus mobile faunal components.
10.2307/3514945|The Upper Miocene to Pleistocene Yakataga Formation of the Gulf of Alaska provides a 5 km thick record of episodic glacially-influenced marine sedimentation. The Pliocene Yakataga Fm. is exposed along western Icy Bay and records the return of glaciomarine deposition in the Gulf of Alaska, after the initiation of glaciation in the Late Miocene, and the onset of major northern hemisphere glaciation by the Late Pliocene. Analysis of foraminifera found in the Yakataga Fm. provides the basis for the interpretation of paleobathymetry and depositional environments from these rocks. Rocks from the western shore of Icy Bay, which contain abundant benthic foraminifera, can be divided into three faunally and sedimentologically distinct units. At the base is a dominantly normal marine unit consisting of progradational mudstones and sandstones, with rare dropstones, containing a high-diversity upper bathyal foraminiferal assemblage dominated by agglutinated taxa and transported neritic faunas. This is overlain by a sequence of sandstones containing sedimentary structures and foraminiferal assemblages indicative of shallow marine conditions. These units are overlain by a glaciomarine unit consisting of diamictites and associated lithologies containing low-diversity assemblages of inner neritic to upper bathyal foraminiferal faunas dominated by Elphidium excavatum clavatum. Quantitative analysis is used to define eight paleoenvironmentally significant biofacies: 1) Elphidium excavatum clavatum biofacies (inner neritic), 2) "Haplophragmoides" spp. biofacies (outer neritic-"mudline"), 3) Cassidulina cf. C. teretis biofacies (outer neritic), 4) Uvigerina juncea biofacies (uppermost bathyal), 5) Elphidiella hannai biofacies (innermost neritic), 6) Epistominella pacifica biofacies (upper bathyal), 7) Cassidulina cf. C. limbata biofacies (outer neritic), 8) Nonionella miocenica biofacies (outer neritic). Paleobathymetric zones defined by these biofacies, which are constrained by modern Gulf of Alaska faunal relationships, indicate bathymetric fluctuations on the order of 100 m in the Icy Bay section. Mixing of biofacies due to downslope transport is common. Analyses of paleobathymetry, benthic formaminiferal biofacies, and sedimentology are used to interpret depositional environments ranging from innermost neritic to upper bathyal for these rocks.
10.2307/3515182|Considering the implications of the phylogenetic tree, the fossil record suggests that all metazoan phyla had originated by the close of the Early Cambrian. Two hypotheses for the ensuing restriction on body-plan origination are 1) that genomes have become modified so as to preclude the origin of major morphological novelty; and 2) that the environment has become so widely occupied by numbers of distinctive lineages that any evolutionary opportunities are quickly exploited by existing clades. The burgeoning array of findings on the molecular basis of development suggests that the genome hypothesis is unlikely to explain the restriction on evolutionary novelty. Body plans are specified through a system of pattern-formation and selector genes that was in place before the Cambrian explosion; although this system has been modified within different clades as they have diverged, there are no indications that the creative ability of regulatory genomes has been impaired. A model of ecospace occupation involving evolutionary preclusion and access appears to be consistent with the data as now understood.
10.2307/3515436|The Silurian Waldron Shale preserves a diverse marine fossil assemblage dominated by epibenthic suspension feeders. Three paleocommunities, distinguished from one another by taxonomic composition, relative abundance of taxa, and fossil distribution, are represented in the Waldron. The Biohermal Community exists above storm-wave base and has the greatest taxonomic richness and evenness. Species-abundance data for non-strophomenid brachiopods most closely fit a log-normal distribution. The Inter-reef Community occurs below storm-wave base, contains fewer species, and is less even in abundance distribution. Rankabundance data for the non-strophomenid brachiopod fauna most closely fit a log-series distribution. The Deeper Platform Community exists below storm-wave base, and may have experienced lower oxygen concentrations. The community has low species richness and abundance, and is dominated by strophomenid brachiopods. This community cannot be fitted to either the log-series or log-normal distributions, but resembles a broken stick distribution. In all three Waldron communities, water depth, habitat heterogeneity, biotic interactions, and disturbance may have played important roles in determining biodiversity. General environmental conditions predicted by species-abundance models are congruent with paleoenvironmental conclusions drawn from sedimentological and paleontological data, suggesting that some paleoenvironmental and paleoecological conditions can be inferred from the ecology of a fossil indicator taxon. Many of the factors controlling diversity in biological communities may have remained the same over much of Phanerozoic time, possibly making analysis of the link between the Recent and the Paleozoic a viable foundation for predictive models for some aspects of community dynamics.
10.2307/3514746|Palynomorphs occur as lithofacies fossils among depositional environments of the uppermost Paleocene to lowermost Eocene sediments of the central Bighorn Basin in Wyoming. Carbonaceous sediments occur within the predominantly red-bedded sequences and they contain lithofacies interpretable as deposition in ponds, crevasse splays, reduced distal floodplains, swamp margins, and clastic swamps. The palynomorph content of these lithofacies, primarily from a limited stratigraphic interval, is shown by canonical variates analysis to be made up of distinct palynologic assemblages. These assemblages differ primarily in abundance of taxa present rather than their presence or absence. The ponds are particularly distinguished by high numbers of reworked marine dinoflagellates, algal zygospores (Tetraporina), bisaccate gymnosperm pollen, and low numbers of Alnus and Taxodiaceae. The levee/crevasse splay contains high numbers of some bisaccate pollen types, pteridophyte spores, and locally high quantities of Alnus. The reduced floodplain contains abundant bisaccate pollen and pteridophyte spores, Platycaryapollenites, and Taxodiaceae. Swamp margin samples are distinguished by high numbers of Cycadopites and locally high numbers of Plicatopollis and Alnus. The swamp is dominated by pollen of Taxodiaceae and Alnus as well as high numbers of Sparganiaceaepollenites, with locally high numbers of Pistillipollenites. Pond deposits are generally more numerous and contain a richer palynoflora, however, the occurrence of the important Paleocene-Eocene boundary taxon Platycaryapollenites occurs in swamp and neighboring facies about 200 m below its first occurrence in pond facies. Thus, lithofacies distribution effects can affect the accuracy of biostratigraphic interpretations.
10.2307/3515241|The carbon and oxygen isotope composition of carbonate in enamel hydroxylapatite can provide information on photosynthetic pathways of plants at the base of food webs, and on hydrological conditions. Retrieval of palaeoenvironmental information from isotopic composition of vertebrate fossils is complicated by potential diagenetic overprinting. In this study, alteration has been assessed by examining the extent to which expected biological carbon and oxygen isotope patterns are disrupted in fossils of species whose diets can be independently predicted by other criteria. The biological patterns used are 1) the differences in carbon isotope composition between grazers and browsers, and 2) the differences in oxygen isotope composition between hippopotamus and terrestrial herbivores. Results obtained on enamel samples from Tighenif (Algeria,  700,000 yr), Melka-Kunture (Ethiopia, 0.7-1.5 myr), and Anabo Koma (Djibouti,  1.6 myr) suggest that in vivo carbon and oxygen isotope compositions are preserved in most cases. Moreover, in all three regions, modern patterns of C<sub>3</sub> versus C<sub>4</sub> grass dominance were present within the Pleistocene.
40865493|The discovery of 11 Nautilus macromphalus shells in marine environments near New Caledonia constitutes the first opportunity for taphonomic analysis of empty shells of unburied, externally shelled cephalopods on the seafloor. Radiometrie dating indicates specimen ages range from 14 to 42 years. These modern specimens provide a unique opportunity to examine the early, preburial taphonomy of this group of animals including shell condition, radiometric-age dating, epizoan encrustation, color degradation, and sediment infilling. The following conclusions are made: (1) given the limited sample available for study and assuming equal conditions where shells rested on the seafloor, the length of time the shell is unburied will not control the degree of epizoan encrustation or the external shell appearance; (2) shell boring is a major destructive process that probably impacts the potential of the shells to become fossilized; and (3) shells in the photic zone are impacted differently than those dredged from a deep water environment below the photic zone. A major part of this difference is probably the result of both boring and encrusting organisms, especially algae. By comparison, fossil cephalopods as a general group can be expected to vary considerably from the modern specimens because of evolutionary patterns of associated organisms, geographic distribution, and different environments with different paleoecological parameters through time. Caution in overreliance on the taphonomy of these modern shells should be exercised because of the limited sample of Nautilus specimens recovered. The need for additional taphonomic studies of modern externally shelled cephalopods with the recovery of more specimens from the marine environment is highly desirable.
3515838|Actualistic comparison of size-frequency distributions (SFDs) of life and death assemblages of the brachiopod Terebratalia transversa from the San Juan Archipelago, Washington State, USA, revealed significant differences in the fidelity of SFDs between hard-bottom and mixed-bottom habitats. In relatively shallow (36-55 m), high-energy, and hard-bottom settings with pebbles and cobbles, the SFD of death assemblages is shaped primarily by taphonomic processes and its compositional fidelity is very low. Juvenile specimens are absent, probably due to winnowing and mechanical destruction. In deeper (64-84 m), low-energy, and mixed-bottom settings with a high proportion of soft substrata, population dynamics have a greater influence on the SFD of death assemblages; compositional fidelity is relatively high and original between-habitat variations in the population structure are preserved. Shell maceration probably is an important destruction process in both settings. In addition to environmental factors, intrinsic factors involving postmortem durability and population dynamics (related to timing and frequency of dead-shell production) are important in influencing preservation potential and fidelity of brachiopod death assemblages. There is differential preservation between small and large specimens. Smaller specimens are always characterized by better preservation and probably are dominated by cohorts that died most recently. Without continual input of juveniles, these soon will disappear from the death assemblage. More durable, larger specimens are characterized by higher taphonomic damage. These data point to size-selective taphonomic processes, leading to disharmonious time-averaging with respect to the relative abundance of size classes. Based on the assumption of short-term variations in population structure and evidence about high rate of destruction of juveniles and differential postmortem durabilities of juveniles and adults, high fidelity of SFDs of death assemblages in deeper, mixed-bottom settings is also the consequence of limited time-averaging. In contrast to previous studies of SFDs of death assemblages, it is emphasized that in addition to extrinsic factors, the interplay of inherent durability and frequency of dead-shell production is important in understanding their fidelity. A simple deterministic model predicts that on a short time scale, subtle differences in rate of destruction and recruitment frequency (related to rate of dead-shell production) lead to quite different probability of preservation of juveniles, even with the same mortality and growth rate. In settings comparable to the San Juan Archipelago, preservation potential of punctate brachiopods will depend on the rate of burial. This fact has a significant implication for distribution pattern of fossil punctate brachiopods, because unless rapidly buried, their distribution patterns can be strongly biased.
10.2307/3515245|Corals living in the coastal waters of southern Oman experience the influence of the seasonally reversing Asian monsoon system. The objective of the research reported here is to assess the potential for using the skeletal chemistry of these corals to investigate past variability in the monsoon climate. To this end, 20-year long, monthly resolution geochemical records are presented for cores from two massive Porites corals, located 20 km apart near Marbat on the Arabian Sea coast of southern Oman. We consider four aspects of skeletal chemistry: oxygen and carbon isotopic composition, barium content and the nature and occurrence of annual fluorescent bands within the coral skeletons. Coral skeletal <sup>18</sup>O documents variations in sea surface temperature which have regional and basin-wide significance. In particular, the <sup>18</sup>O of coral skeleton precipitated during the period of the NE monsoon is strongly correlated with annual rainfall anomalies in India, whilst that precipitated during the period of the SW monsoon appears to provide information on variability in the strength of coastal upwelling. The stable carbon isotope composition and barium content of these particular corals display strong annual cycles, but do not appear to directly record interannual climatic/oceanographic variability. It is concluded that corals on the coast of southern Oman have great potential to provide high-resolution, century-long records of oceanographic and climatic variability associated with the operation of the monsoon climate system.
3515671|Coniform stromatolites are found in several sites in the Tokaanu and Whakarewarewa geothermal areas of North Island, New Zealand. At Tokaanu, silicification of these stromatolites is taking place in Kirihoro, a shallow hot springfed pool. At Whakarewarewa, subfossil silicified coniform stromatolites are found on the floor of "Waikite Pool" on the discharge apron below Waikite Geyser, and in an old sinter succession at Te Anarata. The microbes in the coniform stromatolites from Tokaanu, Waikite Pool, and Te Anarata have been well preserved through rapid silicification. Nevertheless, subtle differences in the silicification style induced morphological variations that commonly mask or alter morphological features needed for identification of the microbes in terms of extant taxa. The coniform stromatolites in the New Zealand hot-spring pools are distinctive because (1) they are formed of upward tapering (i.e., conical) columns, (2) neighboring columns commonly are linked by vertical sheets or bridges, (3) internally, they are formed of alternating high- and low-porosity laminae that have a conical vertical profile, and (4) Phormidium form more than 90% of the biota. As such, they are comparable to modern coniform mats and stromatolites found in the geothermal systems of Yellowstone National Park and ice-covered lakes in Antarctica. Formation of the coniform stromatolites is restricted to pools that are characterized by low current energy and a microflora that is dominated by Phormidium. These delicate and intricate stromatolites could not form in areas characterized by fast flowing water or a diverse microflora. Thus, it appears that the distribution of these distinctive stromatolites is controlled by biological constraints that are superimposed on environmental needs.
10.2307/3514532|"Algal symbiosis" plays a dominant role in the energy budget, gross anatomy, biochemistry, skeletal structure, distribution, and reproductive strategy of most reef-building and many reef-dwelling organisms today. In our interpretations of ancient reef systems, the null hypothesis has usually been that organisms lacked algal symbionts. The burden of proof lay with the investigator to produce evidence of symbiosis in ancient reef systems. Calcification powered by photosynthesis in shallow clear tropical waters is as old as the stromatolites that are the earliest evidence of life on Earth. Algal symbiosis has been evolved many times during the repeated evolution of different reef-dwelling organisms. Any uniformitarian hypothesis of reef ecosystems should anticipate a major role for symbiosis in any ancient reef community, with significant implications for paleoenvironments and paleoecology. Obviously, the ancient ecosystems whose current interpretations are most affected by reversing one's expectations in this way are the Paleozoic ones, including the reef-like structures built by stromatoporoids and archeocyathids. We are only beginning to understand the complexities of a full algal symbiosis. The relatively slow recovery of reef ecosystems from extinction events may reflect the time necessary for the re-establishment of algal symbiosis.
10.2307/3515213|The coastal zone of the southern Delmarva Peninsula exhibits a wide variety of barrier island system subenvironments. This study investigated, a) whether 20 a priori subenvironments could be distinguished from each other on the basis of total (living plus dead) foraminiferal assemblages, and b) the potential utility of modern foraminiferal assemblages as paleoenvironmental indicators in barrier island systems. Sixty-eight foraminiferal species were recorded from 57 surface sediment samples. The values of species diversity (H(S)) and equitability (E) exhibit a striking contrast between the marshes and other areas. The marshes had higher values of species diversity and equitability than the tidal flats and the channels-inlets-shoreface. Stepwise regression analyses indicate correlation of the seven most frequently occurring species in total assemblages (>30% of the total stations) with combinations of one to three environmental variables at the 95% level. Species diversity data and taxonomic composition data analysed by canonical variate analysis indicate that not 20, but four major environments can be readily and reliably distinguished, namely, brackish marsh/channel, lagoonal tidal flats, lagoonal marshes/washover fans, and channels/inlets/shoreface. Combined sedimentologic and microfaunal data can provide greater environmental discrimination. Although these modern foraminiferal distribution patterns are useful as a model for paleoenvironmental interpretations of Quaternary coastal deposits, the model should be applied with great caution because the nature of fossil assemblages in short cores taken in outer fringe marsh and tidal flat environments indicates that taphonomic loss of foraminiferal tests is both considerable and variable.
10.2307/3515139|Although general percentages for Recent species of bryozoans in Cenozoic faunas have been published by several authors and were reviewed by Stanley (1979), we present percentages calculated from a number of post-1950 faunal studies of Cenozoic bryozoans. Variability among faunas of the same age is not great and the increase through the Cenozoic in the percentage of bryozoan species currently in the modern fauna is monotonic when calculated per million years of each Cenozoic epoch. The 12.5% of the Recent bryozoan fauna with a fossil record is the same as recorded by Jelly (1889) over a century ago. This contrasts greatly with Valentine's (1989) data (77%) for the fossil record of recent molluscs from the Californian biogeographic province. The average duration of Recent species having a fossil record is 12.2 MY calculated from the midpoint of the earliest Cenozoic epoch in which each species occurs.
10.2307/3514862|The comatulid crinoids Davidaster rubiginosa and D. discoidea live in shallow (5 m) patch reefs off the western coast of the island of San Salvador (Bahamas) and at the shelf edge along the western and southern sides of the island. Their ossicles (plates) occur as rare, but recoverable, elements in the seafloor sediment. Living specimens of Davidaster were collected, and their arm plates (brachials) and pinnule plates (pinnulars) were subjected to laboratory tests of abrasion and dissolution in order to identify the effects of these processes on the echinoderm's stereom. Crinoid brachials and pinnulars picked from sediment samples were then compared to the test specimens. Breakage of slender spines is the first recognizable consequence of plate movement. Initial abrasion is indicated by the partial loss of the large-mesh stereom found on some ossicles, along with the nearly complete loss of spines. Smoothly rounded plates with polished fulcral ridges result from prolonged abrasion. Initial dissolution in the laboratory results in a subtle roughening of the stereom's surface. Further dissolution causes enlarged openings in the stereom and sharp-pointed stereom rods. Small solution pits and etched cleavage planes are diagnostic surface details revealed under high magnification. Crinoid plates recovered from the sediment show many of the same grain morphologies and surface textures produced in the laboratory. In addition, they show evidence for various biologic processes, including localized stereom breakage (bite marks?) and microborings. Ossicles from a Pleistocene reef exposed on the island are rare, but demonstrate the potential for future studies of both biostratinomy and diagenesis.
10.2307/3514504|A set of four transgressive-regressive cycles is recognizable in the "Lower to Middle" Interlake Group of central Manitoba. The initial Silurian transgression reached its maximum with development of Virgiana (brachiopod) beds in the Fisher Branch Formation. Three subsequent transgressive peaks are identified by coral-rich layers in the upper part of the overlying Inwood Formation, the whole of the Atikameg Formation, and the middle part of the Cedar Lake Formation. These are separated by strata with flat to domal stromatolitic structures or other very shallow water features occurring in the lower to middle parts of the Inwood Formation, the upper part of the Moose Lake Formation, and much of the East Arm Formation. Regressive phases are marked by thin, reddish-brown shale beds bearing abundant frosted quartz grains. These marker beds are best known from middle and lower levels in the East Arm Formation (v andu<sub>2</sub> horizons) and the middle of the Inwood Formation (u<sub>1</sub> horizon). A similar marker bed separates the Interlake Group from the underlying Stonewall Formation of latest Ordovician or earliest Silurian age. The number and spacing of these cycles suggest a correlation with other carbonate cycles found in the East Iowa, Michigan, and Anticosti Basins. While a Bahamian bank model of mosaic-facies deposition explains some aspects of the shallow-water Manitoban cycles, modification of the Israelsky wedge concept (facies in phase) enhances the interpretation of a vast, dynamically interconnected sea stretching far beyond the confines of the Williston Basin. During the first 10 m.y. of the Silurian, the Williston Basin was not an isolated topographic depression. Available evidence suggests that the region was still one of the shallowest parts of the periodically, extensively flooded North American platform.
10.2307/3514796|A phosphatic rocky substrate (rockground) of Maastrichtian age has been recognized at the top of the Ripley Formation in southcentral Alabama, near the town of Braggs. The rockground is developed in a coarse-grained sandstone and is associated with a regional unconformity and probable subaerial exposure (68 Ma sequence boundary). The sandstone was subject to high-energy conditions which produced large, well-rounded cobbles. Thus, at some point, the surface was presumably a rocky shore. The rockground later hosted a low diversity epibiont fauna of bivalves, bryozoans, and serpulid worms. Regular echinoids were common. There is no evident biotic zonation or succession on the rockground or the cobbles. The epibiont molluscan fauna of the rockground, as well as the molluscs of the overlying, lower Prairie Bluff Chalk, are indicative of comparatively deep or offshore conditions. Marine vertebrate remains are common in the Prairie Bluff and include a partial skeleton of the mosasaur Mosasaurus maximus. The stratigraphic association of rockground, chalk, and mosasaur may not be coincidental. During the time of the Ripley-Prairie Bluff unconformity, the widespread Ripley Formation was most deeply eroded in southcentral and southwestern Alabama, and it is apparently in this region only that the rockground developed. As sea level rose, this distally-located, truncated surface accommodated greater water depths and hosted the chalk molluscan community. This relatively undisturbed, offshore environment was especially favorable for the preservation of an intact mosasaur skeleton.
40606522|The inception of terrestrial woody plant ecosystems on the Earth is thought to have caused decreases in atmospheric carbon dioxide and water vapor concentrations in the Middle Devonian. Decreased greenhouse gas concentrations enabled a series of long-term glacial-interglacial cycles from the Late Devonian through the Permian. Here we describe the environmental and ecological variability of the earliest known paleosols with evidence of in situ forests (stump casts and attached root systems) from the Appalachian basin. Four examples located in the Manorkill Formation in the Catskill Mountains of New York State, United States, are analyzed using macro-and micromorphological data. Woody plant stump casts and molds on exposed bedding surfaces were mapped at two of the sites and analyzed using nearest-neighbor analysis. This permitted quantification of spatial distribution and ecological conditions of these paleoforests. These fossilized forests exhibit both single and multigenerational growth and formed in both aquic and seasonally well-drained environments, thus indicating established populations and growth adaptations by the represented species. The occurrence of these diverse forested landscapes in the Givetian is concurrent with the onset of the prolonged decrease in atmospheric CO concentrations that have been tied to a series of Paleozoic glaciations.
10.2307/3514589|Calcareous rocks exposed in the intertidal zone of the northern Gulf of California, where the spring tide range exceeds 7 meters, are being significantly eroded by a diverse suite of endolithic invertebrates, including bivalves, sipunculans, and clionid sponges. Intertidal endoliths of two different environments near Puerto Peasco, Sonora, Mexico, were examined. The endolithic fauna of Station Beach, on an exposed coastline subject to annual and storm-related migration of sand bodies, is quite distinct from that of Cholla Bay, a large, protected muddy bay. Under conditions of variable sediment cover (Station Beach), endolithic communities display higher species diversity, greater species equitability, and lower population densities than those living under relatively static conditions (Cholla Bay). Typically, there are also differences in the orientations of boring openings to the sediment/rock surface. Based on size-frequency determinations, endolith populations in the more dynamic environments at Station Beach appear to be less mature (in terms of age). These features can be useful in interpretating paleoenvironments. Endolithic organisms are major geomorphic agents in these intertidal environments. Where conditions permit, a complex biokarst is initiated. Bioerosion rates for sipunculans and bivalves averaged over the entire affected areas range up to 0.3 m of downward erosion per 1,000 years. These rates are at the same order of magnitude as those obtained by workers investigating bioerosion in coral reefs and along sea cliffs.
10.2307/3515390|Robert A. Gastaldo
10.2307/3514724|Benthic foraminiferal biofacies provide a useful means for estimating paleobathymetry in Mesozoic and Cenozoic marine rocks. These estimates are made on the basis of biofacies models reflecting the distribution of benthic foraminifera in the modern ocean. Paleooceanographic evidence suggests that past oceans were probably much different from the modern ocean; therefore, benthic biofacies models need to be recalibrated for periods that differ significantly from the present. An analysis of benthic foraminifera from the middle Eocene Metrella Sandstone Member of the Tejon Formation provides an opportunity to test current paleobathymetric biofacies models for continental margin settings. Sedimentologic and stratigraphic evidence identified the Metrella strandline, shelf-edge, and slope. The distribution of three taxa thought to represent deep water (lower middle bathyal or deeper), Bathysiphon eocenica, Cyclammina spp., and Plectofrondicularia packardi s. l., indicates that they all are present or abundant in outer-shelf to shelf-edge environments. The much broader bathymetric range of these taxa may reflect a less density-stratified water column than in the modern ocean.
25835632|The CenomanianTuronian (CT) boundary interval is marked by one of the most prominent perturbations of the Mesozoic carbon cycle, Oceanic Anoxic Event 2 (OAE2). Increased fertilization of surface waters caused by greater fluvial input of nutrients may have caused the widespread deposition of organic-rich black shales during the OAE2 (productivity model). Alternatively, sluggish oceanic circulation may have enhanced stratification of the water column favoring the preservation of organic matter due to anoxic bottom-water conditions (preservation model). In order to gather evidence for the driving mechanism behind the deposition of the OAE2 black shales, calcareous nannofossils from the midlatitudinal Holywell section (Eastbourne, southeastern England) were studied. Ten bioevents, including last occurrences of six species and first occurrences of four, were recognized throughout the 11-m-thick interval. Preservation of calcareous nannofossils was moderate to good in all studied samples. The CT interval here contains an abundant (mean 2.4  10 specimens/g sediment) and highly diverse (mean 58 spp./sample) calcareous nannoflora, with Watznaueria, Zeugrhabdotus, Biscutum, and Prediscosphaera the most common taxa. The most remarkable change in assemblage composition through the OAE2 is the decrease of Biscutum spp. Low abundances of Biscutum, combined with elevated numbers of Watznaueria spp. and/or Polycyclolithaceae, indicate reduced surface-water fertility during the OAE2 in midlatitudinal European shelf areas. A reduction of primary productivity seems to be quite common in midlatitudinal sections, whereas calcareous nannofossils and geochemistry indicate an increase in primary productivity in low-latitudinal sections. It is therefore likely that the origin of the OAE2 in mid latitudes was caused by sluggish ocean circulation, which intensified stratification. Reduced rates of mixing prevented the oxygenation of bottom waters in these regions, causing black shale deposition.
27670460|The Virginia Solite Quarry occurrence of exceptionally abundant and uniquely preserved specimens of the tetrapod Tanytrachelos ahynis offers an opportunity to quantify multiple aspects of vertebrate taphonomy. Presence or absence of 128 skeletal elements and of 136 skeletal variables were recorded for 99 specimens from two distinct layers within the quarrylake cycles 2 and 16. Anatomical completeness, or the percent of bones and variables present in a specimen, is low in spite of protection given by anoxic bottom waters from predators and scavengers; the median specimen preserves 14.5% of bones and 11.8% of measured variables. Specimen size, soft-tissue preservation, and postexhumation weathering have no significant effect on specimen completeness; soft-tissue preservation has a significant impact on degree of articulation. Tanytrachelos specimens with heterotopic bones are not significantly more complete than those lacking such bones; this quantitative pattern reinforces independent qualitative taphonomic evidence supporting a biological rather than taphonomic interpretation of the two morphotypes. Lake cycles 2 and 16 differ significantly in terms of articulation and anatomical completeness when anatomical specimen completeness has been corrected for postdepositional faulting. Preservation frequency of bones and variables, or the percent of specimens in which a bone or variable is present, varies greatly but is low with substantial removal of smaller skeletal elements and preferential preservation of such hindlimb elements as femora. Low anatomical specimen completeness and positive correlation between bone size and frequency of preservation both indicate specimen disturbance by minor hydraulic currents. Taphonomic patterns support a low-to-moderate-depth depositional environment, which is shallower than the original reconstruction.
10.2307/3514943|Fossil seagrasses are rare in the geologic record. As a result, their patterns of biogeographic distribution and community evolution are poorly understood. Though generally considered to have first appeared in the late Cretaceous, little is known of their subsequent radiation or of the timing of coevolutionary relationships between fauna and flora seen in modern communities. An excellent example of a preserved seagrass community occurs in the late Middle Eocene Avon Park Formation of west-central, peninsular Florida. This fossil assemblage provides some of the first detailed information about the evolutionary development of animal/seagrass interactions, and in addition, documents the pre-Miocene existence of seagrasses in Florida. The most common seagrasses present are species of Thalassodendron and Cymodocea. As with modern seagrass communities, a diverse assemblage of epibionts, molluscs, and echinoderms is found in association with the blades and rhizomes. Also occurring with the seagrasses and elsewhere in the formation are the remains of some of the oldest dugongs yet known. The co-occurrence of numerous juvenile ophiuroids, regular echinoids, and asteroids with the grass blades suggests that the role of the seagrass community as a "nursery" had already been established by the Eocene. This role of providing food and protection for the young of many organisms is well-documented in the modern realm, but has never before been reported from the fossil record. A strong Tethyan paleobiogeographic connection, previously noted among the Eocene molluscs of Florida, is also supported by the seagrasses and dugongs. We hypothesize that this assemblage of seagrasses was much more widespread in the Neotropics during the Paleogene and into the Neogene. Their absence now can be explained by the changing circulation patterns and cooling initiated by the closing of the Panamanian Isthmus and/or the onset of Plio-Pleistocene glaciation.
41317437|Although burrowing ability has been widespread in tetrapods for more than 300 million years, subsurface dwelling structures that indicate communal behavior are poorly evidenced from pre-Cenozoic strata. Here we present recently discovered tetrapod burrows from Middle Triassic red beds of the Argana Basin in central Morocco, whose complexity suggests an origin by gregarious animals. The well-preserved burrows occur in interbedded mudstones and sandstones interpreted as channel and overbank deposits of ephemeral, braided streams. All burrows originate from the top of thick-bedded sandstones and descend as moderately inclined (10-30), partially spiral tunnels to laterally extended, branched chambers in underlying mudstones. Tunnel segments are biconvex to planoconvex in cross section, up to 20 cm wide and 12 cm in maximum height and exhibit transverse scratch marks along the ceilings and sidewalk. Distinctive burrow characteristics include a laterally sinuous geometry (wavelength  = 38-45 cm; amplitude A = 5-10 cm) of the tubelike passages and the presence of grouped alcoves in terminal chambers. We attribute the burrows to procolophonids or therapsids based on closely associated tetrapod tracks and the limited diameter of the excavations. Our findings represent the second oldest record of communal fossorial behavior by tetrapods and the oldest example from low-latitude areas. Beyond providing refuge from predators, these elaborate underground structures probably functioned as a buffer against diurnal or seasonal variations of air temperature and humidity in a semiarid habitat that was situated just north of the paleoequator.
10.2307/3514940|Ostracod and foraminifer micropaleoecological studies are dominated by taxonomic uniformitarianism-a concept that cannot be applied with confidence prior to the Cenozoic. Comparing differences in the composition and structure of assemblages offers the best approach to micropaleoecological investigations in the Mesozoic and Paleozoic. Ostracod and foraminifer assemblages have been analyzed from the basinal Kimmeridgian of England and the contemporaneous nearshore facies of northern France. Fourteen broadly defined, recurring assemblages are established. Oxygen restriction in basinal areas led to low microfaunal diversity. Thus, both foraminifer and ostracod diversity decline from the nearshore to the offshore although this occurs more rapidly for the ostracods. Consequently the foraminifer/ostracod ratio increases offshore. Arenaceous foraminifers are the last group to disappear and they, along with the nodosariids (typified by the morphologically varied Lenticulina), appear to have been opportunists able to respond rapidly to transient elevations of benthic oxygen in offshore areas. The ostracods, in contrast, exhibit very restricted facies distributions and they appear to have been ecologic specialists. This has important consequences for ostracod-defined biostratigraphical schemes, as samples from any one section will only give partial range zones. This is seen in the Kimmeridgian where many ostracod species exhibit considerably longer ranges in the more inshore facies of northern France. In one instance, an ostracod appears seven ammonite zones earlier in France than in England. Nonetheless, the ostracod zonal scheme has hitherto been established in England.
41317440|Many infaunal marine invertebrates produce mucous excretions, composed primarily of the glycoprotein mucin, that play important roles in burrow stabilization. As with other biopolymers, the ionization of mucin provides highly reactive organic ligands that enable the sorption of metal cations from seawater. Owing to the difficulties in its isolation, however, the specific role of mucin in the adsorptive properties of animal secretions in marine environments is poorly understood. Here we apply a surface complexation approach to model proton and Cd adsorption behavior of partially purified Type III porcine gastric mucin (PGM), a commercially available analog to natural infaunal mucus. FTIR, proton and cadmium adsorption experiments indicate that Type III PGM mimics the acid-base and metal complexation behavior of natural mucous gels excreted by terebellid polychaete worms. At marine pH, nearly two-thirds of the total ligands in mucin-type glycoproteins are deprotonated and thus available to participate in metal cation adsorption reactions. Importantly, the concentration of available organic ligands in mucin exceeds (by up to 5 times) that of a variety of other metal-reactive organic compounds comprising the organic fraction of marine sediments. A substantial fraction of the dissolved organic matter in the bioturbated zone of marine sediments occurs in the form of mucin-associated glycoproteins; the availability of such organic materials may strongly influence the distribution of cations at the burrow margin.
10.2307/3514850|Organically-produced tubes occur in mudcracked, Ordovician limestones in Ingham Mills, New York. The tubes are usually between 0.5 and 1 cm in diameter and form branching and anastomosing systems up to 0.5 m long. The tubes contain quartz, calcite, pyrite, feldspar, Mite and organic carbon that has measured <sup>13</sup>C ratios between -23.4 and -25.0, considerably less negative than the <sup>13</sup>C ratios of anthraxolite found elsewhere in the Mohawk Valley. C<sub>org</sub> concentrations are moderate but sulfur concentrations are high and exceed 3 wt. % in several cases. The organic carbon is probably derived from an in situ source, but the origin of the tube structures remains enigmatic.
10.2307/3514602|The Waldron Shale (Silurian) in southern Indiana contains four lithofacies, ranging from very fossiliferous to nearly unfossiliferous, each with a distinct taphonomic history. Preburial taphonomic processes include primarily disarticulation of multielement skeletons, fragmentation, and limited dissolution. Transport distances were negligible even during storms. Storms resulted in shell-gravel lags in shallower water and well-preserved smothered-bottom assemblages in deeper water. Taphonomic analysis of the fossils and stable isotope data (C, S) were used to identify a series of post-burial taphonomic events. From earliest to latest those events are: 1) pyrite shell replacement in reducing microenvironments, 2) pyrite mold formation and shell dissolution, 3) dolomitization, 4) precipitation of euhedral pyrite as overgrowths on fossils, and 5) precipitation of sparry calcite in the voids of fossils partly replacing internal morphology. The effect of each event varied among taxa such that in any given sample the percentage of pyritized or dolomitized shells may range from 0 to 100% depending on the taxa. The severity of each event also varied among facies. Models based on the taphonomy of Recent shelled invertebrate communities (excluding sedimentological processes) may not be applicable to Paleozoic assemblages because of secular variations in shell mineralogy of the dominant shelled organisms, burrowing rates, and chemical and physical conditions of shallow marine environments. A high proportion of fossils, even juveniles, may have been preserved providing that favorable conditions existed in Paleozoic muddy seafloors.
40606421|Marine Pliocene mollusks are abundant in sand deposits at Langenboom, the Netherlands. Three samples, totaling nearly 15,000 mollusks, were identified and assessed for drill-hole prdation marks. An approach commonly used by researchers was performed to calculate a drill-hole prdation intensity based on bivalves with complete margins only. This method, however, introduced a significant taphonomic bias: an assemblage of bivalve drill-hole prdation intensity of ~30% was found for complete valves only, compared to an assemblage of bivalve drill-hole prdation intensity of ~20% based on complete and fragmented valves with more than 50% of the hinge preserved. This bias was caused by a significant change in the faunal composition when fragmented valves, primarily broken by compaction, were taken into account. For assemblages with many broken valves, this bias should be estimated to be comparable to drill-hole prdation intensities based on pristine collections. This bias becomes especially important in studies on evolutionary escalation through time. Naticids appeared to be the predominant drill-holeproducing predator (only one definite drill hole was found) based on drill-hole morphology and the gastropod composition. Muricid predators were absent, probably because most bivalve prey is infaunal.
10.2307/3515380|Bryozoans have played a significant ecological role in many shallow marine benthic communities since the Ordovician and are important contributors to carbonate sediment production in many modern cool-water marine environments. Correlation between bryozoan colonial growth forms and environments in which the organisms lived allows for the application of growth forms as paleoenvironmental indicators. This can be done as either (1) a characterization of regional environmental or distributional data within a comprehensive study; or (2) as a predictive tool applied in an unknown setting using limited data. A number of workers have demonstrated this potential in biological, paleontological, and sedimentological studies. Growth-form distributions established independently from, and later compared to, environmental factors provide for the greatest predictive utility. Problems encountered in methodology need to be addressed before bryozoan colonial growth forms can achieve their full potential as paleoenvironmental indicators. Methodological problems include those associated with specimen abundance versus species richness, numeric versus volumetric frequency, relative versus absolute abundance, and changes within growth forms among localities versus changes among growth forms within localities (facies). A procedure is proposed that combines species richness and specimen abundance, as well as information about distributions within growth forms and within localities, into a single, comparable data set. An example is provided using bryozoans from the cool-water Lacepede Shelf of southern Australia.
10.2307/3514526|I define ecological succession as an orderly, directional, and predictable, pioneer-to-climax process of community and species development. It takes place in an environment where external physico-chemical constraints are not undergoing major change: ecological succession leads naturally to increasing biological control of the environment and a stabilized ecosystem. Ecological succession is an intrinsic feature of reef growth. I present criteria for the recognition of pioneering and climax stages in Phanerozoic reefs at both the species and community level. On the other hand, I use the term community replacement where changing external factors have forced the migration of organisms into an area thereby replacing existing species and communities. Development of reef ecosystems through the Phanerozoic generally follows the pattern of ecological succession but through a time frame of 30 to 100 Ma, concluded by a phase of mass extinction. I call such long-term changes erathemic successions. Pioneering recovery of reef ecosystems following extinctions appears to take as much as 8 to 12 Ma. Restricted marine environments or global periods of climatic change produce arrested successions-successions essentially halted in initial phases characterized by pioneering species and communities that fail to reach a full climax stage. I outline selective examples of arrested successions. Arrested succession may explain the lack of full reef development within most of the mid-Cambrian to mid-Ordovician and much of the Carboniferous and may provide a key to explaining global climatic change. Classification of reefs should take into account the role of community structure and ecological succession as these may play a stronger selective role on reef type than tectonic, sedimentological, or physico-chemical constraints.
3515782|Predation as an important driver of evolutionary change long has been assumed, despite difficulties to substantiate it with specific examples of predatory interaction, especially for the early Paleozoic diversification of animal life. This study corroborates the existence of shell-drilling predation in the uppermost Neoproterozoic of China. Nearly one-fifth of almost one hundred tubular shells of one of the earliest mineralized animals, Cloudina, are perforated by undoubted predatory borings 15-85 m wide. By contrast, no specimens of co-occurring shells belonging to Sinotubulites were affected. The identity of the predator remains elusive, but variation in size of the borings suggests a predatory lifestyle throughout its growth, after it reached a minimum size. The relatively uniform distance of the borings from the shell apertures points to either control by the life orientation of the shells, such as the position of the sediment surface, or, more likely, an avoidance response by the predator to protective measures located near the aperture. Assuming Sinotubulites had similar life habits and was potential prey, the absence of borings in this taxon is evidence that these tubes may have been protected by organic material or toxins that fended off shell-drilling predators. Hence, this earliest example of predation in the fossil record already shows prey selectivity and site-specific behavior, pointing to a level of Precambrian predatorprey interaction that approaches the complexity seen in younger Paleozoic benthic animal communities. This is consistent with the suggestion that predation was indeed an active contributor to the Cambrian radiations.
10.2307/3514954|The Petrified Forest Plateau of Theodore Roosevelt National Park (TRNP) in western North Dakota provides an excellent setting for exploring the influence of ancient, exhumed land surfaces upon modern ones. Here, a sequence of Paleocene rocks preserves a succession of ancient terrestrial land surfaces characterized by finegrained, laminated sedimentary rocks and organic-rich horizons. These exposures are dominantly finer-grained than the rest of the sedimentary rocks in the Park, and represent a region inferred to have been distal to the bulk of an aggradational fluvial system. Water was abundant in the Plateau region, and during much of the time the landscapes were submerged. At least twice, large forests developed in soils forming on floodplain sediments. These paleosols are characterized by organic surficial horizons and gleyed subsoils. Coniferous stumps from two successive forests constitute the "Petrified Forest" preserved in TRNP today. The modern environments of the Petrified Forest Plateau contrast sharply with those of the ancient; they are characterized by intense seasonality, semi-aridity, steep topography, a degradational land surface, and low organic productivity. Despite this, the modern soils show an imprint deriving from ancient environmental conditions that is as strong as any imprint from Holocene pedogenic processes; the soils that are presently forming retain much of the waterlogged features of the Paleocene soils. While it is clear that soils do respond to environments, it is also clear that the response may vary, depending upon the nature of the soil material and morphologies inherited. Here, the development of a gleyed morphology has proven largely irreversible.
3515698|Although reefs often are expressed as single structures in the geological record, they are in fact composites of many superimposed communities. Therefore, an understanding of the processes of reef formation is largely dependent upon description of the life cycle of the dominant reef-building organisms. Modern reef corals commonly show synchronous gamete release (mass spawning) but, to date, such a phenomenon has not been reported from the fossil record. The first example of where the life cycle and reproductive ecology of an ancient reef-builder can be tentatively reconstructed is presented herein. Exceptionally preserved specimens of the widespread Late Paleozoic phylloid alga Eugonophyllum (Family Halimedaceae, Order Bryopsidales, Division Chlorophyta) allow the recognition of simultaneously ruptured reproductive structures. This may offer evidence for the synchronous release of gametes. In some modern bryopsidaleans, such as Halimeda and Udotea, synchronous reproduction is followed frequently by mass mortality of the community. It is speculated that phylloid algal reefs may be understood as having formed by the density-dependent recruitment of many self-seeded generations, which produced short-lived populations that reached reproductive maturity after six months to two years, but then suffered mass mortality on spawning the next generation. Those algae that formed a reef framework, as opposed to a bioclastic bed, were associated with an encrusting medium, most commonly microbialite. Recognition of such a life cycle may offer important insights into the expression of such reefs in the geological record that often are dominated by sheets of densely-packed, fragmentary material.
27670351|A comprehensive taphonomic analysis has yielded a novel interpretation for one of the most famous dinosaur quarries in the world. The Cleveland-Lloyd Dinosaur Quarry (CLDQ) traditionally has been interpreted as an attritional predator trap. This scenario is based largely on a remarkable 3:1 predator:prey ratio, dominated by the remains of the theropod Allosaurus fragilis. This study addresses the taphonomy of CLDQ by combining analyses of fossils and entombing sediments along with putative modern analogues. Thousands of bones have been excavated from CLDQ, representing at least 70 individual dinosaurs from a minimum of nine genera. The fossils occur in a 1-m-thick fine-grained calcareous mudstone interpreted as a floodplain ephemeral-pond deposit. The bones show minimal carnivore modification and surface weathering, whereas approximately 1/3 of the elements studied possess pre-depositional fractures and evidence of abrasion. The vast majority of elements are found horizontal to subhorizontal, without a preferred long-axis orientation. The demographic profile of the CLDQ dinosaur assemblage appears to be highly skewed toward subadult individuals. Numerous lines of evidence question the traditional predator-trap hypothesis. Of the alternatives, catastrophic drought appears to be most consistent with available data. Evidence includes a large assemblage of animals in a low-energy ephemeral-pond depositional setting and geologic and biologic evidence of desiccation. Additional support comes from modern drought analogues that frequently result in mass-death assemblages of large vertebrates. Climatic interpretations during Late Jurassic times are consistent with a semiarid environment characterized by periodic drought conditions.
3515710|An ichthyosaur discovered in the Ultima Esperanza Province, southern Chile, is the southernmost specimen of this group yet discovered in South America. The incomplete fossil consists of 17 vertebrae and associated neural arches and ribs. Occurring within a large block in glacio-fluvial sediments adjacent to the Campo de Hielo Patagnico Sur, the remains cannot be given a species designation nor be dated with precision or tied to one specific formation at this time. However, the rock type, geologic occurrence of the block, and glaciology of the sector enable the material to be placed within the upper part of the Middle to Upper Jurassic Tobifera Formation or the Lower Cretaceous Zapata Formation. Although the fairly broad stratigraphic range and limited fossil material hamper careful stage-level paleobiogeographic analysis, this occurrence documents the existence of ichthyosaurs in the now closed Rocas Verdes back-arc basin. This occurrence extends the distribution of ichthyosaurs in South America some 1500 km south of previously reported fossil material. The fossil provides support for the existence of a possible migration seaway between southern South America and western Africa during the Late Jurassic associated with the breakup of the southern sector of Gondwana. This seaway would be the southern counterpart to the Hispanic Corridor that connected the Pacific to the west Tethys around the northern end of South America.
3515752|Planktonic foraminiferal age of the Miocene sequence in the Iwadono Hills of central Japan is determined in reference to recent advances in Miocene planktonic foraminiferal biostratigraphy of Japan. The interval from the Godo through the Negishi to the lower part of the Shogunzawa Members of the Iwadono Formation yields 55 species of planktonic foraminiferal fossils. The Godo Member is assigned to planktonic foraminiferal zone N.8. The Negishi Member and the lower part of the Shogunzawa Member are confined to zones N. 10 to N. 13. Nine foraminiferal biohorizons were detected, seven of which enable us to determine a detailed age-thickness model for the sequence. The age-thickness model indicates a remarkably slow sedimentation rate in the Negishi Member (less than 9 mm/kyr). Furthermore, a relationship is established between the foraminiferal biostratigraphy and other stratigraphic data (diatoms, calcareous nannofossils, and radiometric ages) in the area. This relationship agrees well with the age-correlation chart of Japanese Neogene sediments.
40606494|Whale corpses on the modern seafloor host particular communities that benefit from the large amounts of available labile organic matter. The study of these communities has revealed the presence of the siboglinid annelid Osedax that feeds on bone tissue by means of a symbiotic relationship with heterotrophic bacteria. Here we report the presence of tubular borings in a fragment of the neurocranium of a fossil baleen whale found in lower Pliocene rocks of southeastern Spain. They are formally described as Trypanites ionasi isp. n. The fossil borings can be assigned to annelid or sipunculid worms and may constitute the first evidence of an Osedax-Wke osteophagous behavior in the fossil record of cetaceans. Nevertheless, the definitive assignment to Osedax is not possible until we have more information on the morphology of modern siboglinid borings.
3515824|Coprolites were collected 74 m above the base of the Upper Triassic Ischigualasto Formation of northwestern Argentina and their chemistry, mineralogy, and textures were studied to infer their biological source and taphonomy. They were found to contain a few fragments of bone and much crystalline apatite, and so can be assigned to carnivores able to digest bone. Primary minerals derived from endogenous materials were apatite and pyrite, and secondary minerals derived from ground water were chiefly calcite and glauconite in one coprolite and glauconite in another. Primary apatite, presumed originally to have been mostly dahllite (a carbonate hydroxyapatite) precipitated from digested bone, was converted to francolite (a carbonate fluorapatite) during diagenesis through the introduction of fluoride from ground water. The chemistry, mineralogy, and structure of the coprolites suggest an early onset of mineralization, early anaerobic burial, and a recent anaerobic-to-aerobic transition during weathering. The chemistry of the coprolites is consistent with the stratigraphic identification of the coprolite horizon as an ancient flood plain.
27670432|Recent studies have emphasized that faunal change is typically brief and most commonly occurs at sequence boundaries and major flooding surfaces. The Upper Ordovician of the Cincinnati, Ohio, region records a major biotic invasion in the Richmondian Stage, which offers an opportunity to test these generalizations and to understand how episodes of faunal change are reflected in the structure of ecological gradients. The early Cincinnatian (C1early C4 depositional sequences) displays two relatively stable faunal gradients, with the primary gradient reflecting onshore-offshore setting and the secondary gradient reflecting substrate consistency. During the mid-C4 sequence, dominant taxa of the shallow subtidal are extirpated, while deep subtidal taxa expand into those habitats, leading to a loss of cross-shelf faunal differentiation. This faunal breakdown is accompanied into the mid-C5 by a series of ecological epiboles, indicating an ongoing flux in ecological associations. The onshore-offshore gradient is reestablished in the C5, albeit with new associations dominated by or containing immigrant taxa. Recognition of this gradient is hindered by widespread increased abundance of bryozoans and by the delayed appearance of at least seven common genera of brachiopods and corals. The Richmondian Invasion plays out over multiple sequences and is not confined to a brief interval at the beginning of a sequence. These faunal changes do not coincide with sequence boundaries or major flooding surfaces and therefore cannot be sequence stratigraphic artifacts, nor can they represent a geologically instantaneous faunal response to sea-level change.
27670616|Trends in the size distributions of fossil seed assemblages over geologic time have been interpreted as evidence of fundamental changes in the structure of terrestrial ecosystems. It is not clear, however, how accurately fossil seed assemblages reflect the original flora. As a case study, the seed-size distribution of a living hardwood forest and a salt marsh community in Maryland was compared to that of its potential fossil assemblage, seeds extracted from sediment cored in the adjacent tidal estuary. Results indicated that the death assemblage was significantly different from the source community, lacking most of the smaller-seed morphotypes. The biased accumulation was not driven solely by over- or underrepresentation of plants of a particular dispersal mode or growth form. Although there was a sedimentological gradient along the transects, there was no correlation between grain size and seed-size distributions within the cores. The difference appears to be primarily an issue of transport: 45% of morphotypes identified in the death assemblage were present in the life assemblage, and only 33% identified in the life assemblage were also in the death assemblage. These results indicate that (1) estuarine deposits capture a partial representation of the local seed flora with significant regional influences, and (2) fossil seed assemblages should not be compared directly to seed-size distributions documented in living communities.
25835612|The hypsilophodont Oryctodromeus cubicularis from the Cretaceous Blackleaf Formation of Montana represents the first dinosaur interpreted to be from a burrow fill. The skeletal remains occurred within an incompletely preserved chamber at the end of an S-shaped tunnel. Unlike many fossil vertebrates associated with burrows, the Oryctodromeus remains were disarticulated and elevated within the graded fill. To test whether this skeletal arrangement reflected in situ burial from within or transport into the burrow, we constructed a half-scale burrow model using PVC pipes and conducted a series of sediment infilling experiments with appropriately scaled, disarticulated rabbit skeletons. Experimental trials varied incoming flow velocities, sediment supply, dry or water-filled chamber conditions, and initial placement and weight of skeletal elements. Twelve of the 13 trials resulted in complete rearrangement of the skeletons, six trials left bones elevated above the base of the chamber floor, and six resulted in graded fills. Only the trial using saturated bones preserved the skeleton largely undisturbed on the chamber floor. A trial using bones mixed with the sediment prior to deposition resulted in numerous broken elements but did not produce a distinctive bone distribution. Several trials produced bone distributions and sediment fills similar to the original Oryctodromeus burrow assemblage. The experiment as designed failed to falsify the hypothesis that the Oryctodromeus bones were in the chamber prior to burial. Experimental results include bone and sediment configurations similar to those known from the vertebrate fossil record and the former may prove useful in the recognition of burrow assemblages lacking a distinctive fill.
3514933|Ichnology and sedimentology of an omission surface on the pelagic Amuri Limestone (middle Oligocene) reveal a complex and variable history of unconformity development in Canterbury Province, South Island, New Zealand. Ichnofabric and trace fossil assemblages indicate the nature of the omission sub-strate: at some localities it was a softground, at others a firmground, at others a hardground, and at yet others a rockground. The irregular distribution of these substrate types among more than 50 localities over an area of several hundred square kilometers substantiates sedimentologic evidence for an irregular surface relief, which developed during an episode of gentle folding and uplift related to the onset of compressional tectonics accompanying establishment of a new plate margin in the New Zealand region. Softground conditions are represented by a wide range of burrow types. Firmground conditions are reflected by Thalassinoides and Zoophycos burrows. Hardground conditions are indicated by Trypanites borings, and by Thalassinoides borings which follow low-angle joints. Rockground conditions are represented locally by paleokarst features, commonly in the form of microkarstic solution-enhancement of joints and of omission-suite Thalassinoides burrows and borings, which reach to depths of 2 meters in the limestone. The rockground and clasts derived from it have been penetrated by another (postomission) set of Thalassinoides borings, which began as burrows in the sediment that overlies the unconformity. The original chalky consistency of the weakly indurated coccolithophorid biomicrite of the Amuri Limestone apparently offered no more resistance to burrowing than the unindurated sandy glauconitic fine biomicrite of the overlying sediments. Omission suite Thalassinoides burrows show evidence of reoccupation by postomission Thalassinoides progenitor organisms.
10.2307/3514830|Fossil tubes, stressed high-abundance low-diversity faunas, and abundant, low-temperature, hydrothermal mineralization occur in Lower Carboniferous bryozoan/microbial carbonate mounds in southwestern Newfoundland, Canada. These occurrences, set in a rift-valley setting that was tectonically active during the Carboniferous, were previously regarded as marginal marine deposits laid down in subtidal, schizohaline environments adjacent to a rocky shoreline. We suggest that they may, instead, have formed by chemosynthetic processes at low temperature marine vents at a depth of 100 m, or greater. In this explanation venting on the Carboniferous ocean floor caused biological 'oases', carbonate mounds, sulphide and sulphate mineralization, as well as possible hydrocarbon formation. This hypothesis explains the location and character of the unusually well-preserved biota, the carbonate mounds containing many indications of microbial activity and the pervasive mineralization in the mounds. It addresses the lack of evidence in the mounds for higher energy and is consistent with the characteristics of the laterally correlative carbonate laminites. The discovery of identical fossil tubes in southern New Brunswick and the presence of Pb-Zn-Fe mineralization in similar carbonate mounds at the same stratigraphic level in Nova Scotia and southern New Brunswick suggest that this hypothesis may be tested throughout Atlantic Canada.
27670362|CLAMP (Climate Leaf Analysis Multivariate Program) is a powerful paleoclimate proxy with the ability to yield quantitative data on past temperatures, precipitation, growing season length, and humidity, as well as enthalpy (a property of a parcel of air that is useful in studies of paleoaltimetry). Commonly quoted uncertainties in CLAMP predictions relate to the statistical uncertainty inherent in the combined quality of the modern calibration data sets and the relationship of foliar architecture to the various climate parameters. This minimum uncertainty assumes that the fossil assemblage represents faithfully the foliar physiognomy of the source vegetation. Taphonomic processes degrade this physiognomic fidelity. Differential selection for size, shape, and species composition during transport and post-depositional processes biases the physiognomic profile of the fossil assemblage. The sensitivity of CLAMP precision to taphonomic filtering was assessed empirically using a modern data set from the Crimean Peninsula as a proxy fossil site. Elimination of leaf margin, apex, base, size, and shape character-state categories, singly and in combination, changed the predictive capability of CLAMP. Loss of margin characters had the greatest effect, particularly on temperature-related variables (mean annual, warm-month mean and cold-month mean temperatures, length of the growing season, and enthalpy). Taphonomic selection against large leaf sizes had little effect even on moisture-related estimates (precipitation during the growing season, mean monthly growing season precipitation, precipitation during the three wettest and driest months, relative humidity). Loss of taphonomically sensitive characters (apex, base, or shape) also had little effect on CLAMP predictions.
3515879|Taphonomic studies are scarce for all fossil foraminifera, especially for fusulinids, which have been studied rarely, due to their traditional use primarily for biostratigraphy The analysis of 900 well-preserved fusulinids, notably Triticites ventricosus, indicates both biostratinomy and diagenesis of the assemblage in the Hughes Creek Shale Member of the Foraher Limestone (Pennsylvanian, Virgilian) in east-central Kansas. The excellent preservation of these specimens provides valuable insight into the taphonomic process. The biostratinomy has involved both encrustation and corrasion. The encrusting foraminifer Tolypammina is pervasive, with 63 percent of the fusulinids having at least one encrusting foraminifer. Corrasion is not as common: only 23 percent of the specimens have significant corrasion. Diagenesis of the fusulinids occurred during compaction of the shale and is manifest as compression that has resulted in pressure solution and flattening. Pressure solution formed pits on 47 percent of the specimens, and another 3 percent have other fusulinids or fossil fragments embedded into them. Flattened or cracked specimens were not abundant, with only 8 percent of the fusulinids having such features.
10.2307/3515253|The Fishcreekian transgression is one of a sequence of late Cenozoic marine transgressions recognized on the Alaskan Arctic Coastal Plain. The Fish Creek beds of northern Alaska, which were designated as the type section for this transgression (Carter and Galloway, 1985), contain fossils interpreted as Pliocene in age (2.48 Ma, Repenning et al., 1987; 2.41 -2.14 Ma, Brigham-Grette and Carter, 1992). Analysis of the benthic foraminifers in the Fish Creek beds, however, indicates that deposition occurred in the latest Pliocene and early Pleistocene between 1.7 and 1.2 Ma during a "warm" interval which was characterized by climatic conditions similar to the present or slightly warmer where temperatures shifted within a relatively narrow range. The late Pliocene to early Pleistocene benthic foraminiferal fauna is distinctive and can be traced throughout the circum-Arctic region. This fauna is dominated by elphidiums and elphidiellids, particularly E. hannai, E. rolfi, and E. ustulatum. Paleomagnetics, geochemical analyses, and world-wide climatic conditions support the latest Pliocene and early Pleistocene age interpretation for these deposits. Examination of the basis for the older age interpretation and the age of the diagnostic vertebrate, ostracode, molluscan, spore, and pollen species shows that the latest Pliocene and early Pleistocene age for the transgression is well within the limitations imposed by these fossil groups.
10.2307/3514613|Patterns of variability in gastropod shell morphology were used to examine modes of morphological divergence and their implications for intra-lacustrine divergence. Two thiarid gastropods endemic to Lake Tanganyika, that are both stenotopic and rock-dwelling, were investigated because they are believed to be equally subject to environmental barriers to dispersal. A model of allopatric divergence, facilitated by habitat fragmentation, predicts that variation among populations should be large relative to the variation within them, and that organisms equally subject to environmental barriers to dispersal should exhibit similar magnitude and character of morphological divergence. Spekia and members of the Lavigeria species flock appear only in rocky, wave-battered shoals and neither gastropod is known to exhibit wide dispersal. Intervening reaches of sandy and muddy substrates are thought to be barriers to gene flow. Analyses of variance of factor scores reveal that interpopulation morphological variance is greater than intrapopulation variance for both genera, suggesting that divergence is allopatric. However, Spekia shows little morphological variability compared to shallow-water Lavigeria. In graphical analyses of factor scores, Lavigeria forms discrete clusters of morphology related to differences in environment, geographic distribution, and timing of larval broods, all indicative of speciation. The model of allopatric divergence controlled by environmental barriers to dispersal must be reviewed because of two incongruent results: sympatry of divergent morphs of Lavigeria, and the observation that members of Lavigeria show much greater endemic divergence than members of Spekia, even though they are thought to be equally poor dispersers.
27670466|Fossil leaves in the middle Miocene Cucaracha Formation along the Panama Canal are 1015 cm long, thick, and entire-margined; fossil pollen is also dicot dominated, as expected for wet tropical forests. Fossil woods include palms and ring-porous dicots, with smooth bark as is found in weakly seasonal tropical climates. In contrast, late Hemingfordian to early Barstovian mammals of the Cucaracha Formation are the same as those found in Nebraska, Kansas, and Florida, where climate was drier and cooler and vegetation more open. Cucaracha paleosols reconcile these differences as evidence of a mosaic of swamps to mangal (mangrove forests) preserving plants and dry uplands preserving mammals. A dozen pedotypes represent as many vegetation types, including mangrove, fresh-water and marine-influenced swamp, early successional riparian woodland, colonizing forest, dry tropical forest, and woodland. Many paleosols have calcareous nodules, and some have pedogenic barite nodules. Depth to carbonate and paleosol thickness with carbonate indicate mean annual precipitation of 573916  147 mm and mean annual range of precipitation of 2765  22 mm. Chemical analyses of paleosol Bt horizons confirm mean annual precipitation of 2961142 mm and mean annual temperature of 1516  4.4C. Low precipitation and temperature estimates imply a rain shadow from a high (14004000 m) volcanic mountain range to the west, with continuous land connection to allow immigration of mammals from North America. Partial enclosure of the Caribbean Sea by a mountainous Panama peninsula, as well as by Antillean arcs, initiated high Caribbean marine temperature and salinity well before Pliocene isthmian closure.
10.2307/3515097|Sequence stratigraphy provides an integrated framework within which to examine historical patterns of paleontological phenomena. Depositional sequences are the stratigraphic record of fluctuations of sea level and sedimentation, environmental parameters that also exert critical controls on the distribution of shallow marine organisms, and the preservation and accumulation of their skeletal remains. As such, stratigraphic paleontology and sequence stratigraphy share multiple associations. Biostratigraphy is a critical tool for relative age-dating and correlation of depositional sequences; in turn, sedimentological and depth-related variables exert a primary control on the occurrence of zonally significant fossils. The most readily dated portions of many sequences are offshore condensed facies. Correlation of a hierarchy of discontinuity surfaces, however, permits extension of biostratigraphic dating into less fossiliferous facies. In turn, mingling of fossils of distinct zones provides a key to recognition of condensed sections, and truncation of zones points to significant unconformities such as sequence boundaries. The combination of refined graphic biostratigraphy, cycle-based ecostratigraphy, and sequence stratigraphy, sequence biostratigraphy, will ultimately permit extremely precise stratigraphic correlation and dating of marine strata. Taphonomic attributes of fossil assemblages also relate closely to sequence stratigraphy. Taphofacies vary predictably in depositional sequences because of the dependence of fossil preservation upon rates of burial and environmental energy. A spectrum of preservation should exist from highly corroded, fragmented remains, typical of erosive lowstand or early transgressive conditions, to intact multielement skeletons, characteristic of rapid background sedimentation during mid-highstand progradation; geochemically stable lags of corroded fossils (e.g., bone beds) typify many highly condensed sections. Skeletal accumulations develop during intervals of low sediment input. Sediment-starved accumulations overlying marine flooding surfaces occur at bases of parasequences, winnowed shell beds at parasequence tops. At a larger scale, thin, sheet-like skeletal deposits may form transgressive systems tracts of third order sequences. Fossil Lagersttten (typically involving rapid burial and/or anoxia) are characteristic of the transgressive to early highstand interval. Although higher background sedimentation rates typify the later highstand, fossil event beds are commonly less recognizable due to dilution and bioturbation effects. Close integration of paleontologic and sequence stratigraphic data should foster a greatly improved understanding of biases and relationships of biotic and abiotic processes in the accumulation of the stratigraphic record.
27670309|During the Middle to Late Oxfordian (locally ranging into the earliest Kimmeridgian), the epicontinental shelf that persisted in the southeastern paleomargin of Iberia (Prebetic Zone) was largely colonized by siliceous sponges (Dictyida, Lychniskida, and Lithistida, in descending order of abundance). Spongiolithic lithofacies (sponge-rich deposits in which buildups are rare and small) represent a marine environment extensively colonized by sponges in the form of large sponge meadows showing associated epibenthic organisms (brachiopods, bivalves, and echinoderms). Marl-limestone rhythmites represent muddy bottoms colonized by scarce endobenthos (bivalves and irregular echinoids). However, the occurrence of patchy sponge bioherms provided a favorable substrate for epibionts and microbial lithoherms (microbialites). The record of meter-scale buildups showing sponge bioherm-microbial lithoherm in marl-limestone rhythmites resulted from the preferred colonization of sponge patches by benthic microbial communities, the growth of which on surrounding muddy bottoms was very limited or impossible. Sedimentation rate, substrate, bathymetry, light, nutrients, oxygenation, and environmental (water) energy determined the eco-sedimentary conditions responsible for the occurrence and composition of spongiolithic facies in the area studied. Throughout the Late Oxfordian and the earliest Kimmeridgian, the progressive increase in the rate of sedimentation, especially influx of siliciclastics, forced the disappearance of sponge bioherms-microbial lithoherms from the Prebetic shelf.
40865500|The Eocene-Oligocene transition (ca. 33 Ma) is associated with one of the most pronounced climate changes of the Cenozoic, with continental mean annual temperature dropping ~ 8  C over a span of  400,000 years. Leptomeryx is a small, ruminant artiodactyl that spans the transition, known from the late Eocene (Chadronian North American Land Mammal Age, or NALMA) through the early Oligocene (Orellan NALMA). The hypothesis that early Oligocene Leptomeryx had more complex enamel surface area than those found in the late Eocene has been demonstrated qualitatively, but the potential change in the amount of enamel has never been quantified. Here we calculate the area of the occlusal surface enamel (OSE) of Leptomeryx specimens from both the Chadronian (n = 29) and Orellan (n = 35) of northwestern Nebraska. Areas of the OSE were calculated by isolating the enamel into polygons on digital photographs of each specimen. The mean areas confirm that the OSE significantly increased by approximately 27% from the Chadronian sample to the Orellan sample.
10.2307/3514710|Fossil ostracodes provide a useful way of interpreting the hydrochemical history of lakes. The tolerances of many ostracode species to particular hydrochemical parameters are known based upon studies of living taxa by Cohen et al. (1983) from eastern and southern Africa range assemblages. A hydrochemical analysis of ostracodes applied to fossils from a radiocarbondated core from Lake Elmenteita, a small rift-valley lake of central Kenya, suggests that about 12,000 years B.P., Elmenteita was a small, closed lake of Range IV salinity and alkalinity. It underwent a period of decreasing salinity and alkalinity, passing through Range III to a Range II, high-water phase, about 10,000 years B.P. The lake remained in Range II or fluctuated slightly, prior to its rapid return to a Range IV, highly alkaline and saline, small-lake condition about 8,000 years B.P. The results of this study are compatible with other studies of Lake Elmenteita's Quaternary history, as well as regional studies dealing with lake levels and paleoclimate in East Africa. More broadly, these results demonstrate the great potentia l for recognizing regional paleohydrologic and paleoclimatic trends from tropical lacustrine ostracodes derived from cores.
40606504|Decaying and partially silica-permineralized subfossil plant stems collected from geothermally influenced wetlands of Yellowstone National Park contain evidence of colonization by protists, including heliozoa and chrysophytes. Wetland pools in which the plants and heliozoans occur represent an extreme environment characterized by steady influxes of hotspring water. Recorded physicochemical conditions in wetland pools reveal relatively high temperatures (often > 35C), high pH ( 9.1), high conductivity (> 3000 S/), brackish salinity and elevated concentrations of toxic elements including antimony (Sb), thallium (Tl), mercury (Hg), and arsenic (As). This report contains the first observations of heliozoans and chrysophytes from intercellular sites within decaying plants and adds a previously unreported and extreme environment to their known habitats. Such settings are potential taphonomic windows for preservation of fossil protists.
10.2307/3514777|The water level in two-meter-deep Storr's Lake, San Salvador Island, fluctuates annually in response to rainfall, ground-water recharge, and evaporation. Although sea water flows in through conduits at high tide and lake water flows out at low tide, daily lake-level fluctuations have not been observed. Lake water salinity of as little as 38,500 ppm to as great as 93,500 ppm has been measured; water in the lake is density-stratified. Several different microbialitic structures exist in Storr's Lake in well-established zones that apparently are controlled, in large part, by water depth. Thrombolitic microbialites around the lake margin are exposed annually above temporary water levels for intervals of many weeks or months. Crumbly stromatolitic microbialites up to 15 cm tall form an adjacent zone lakeward from the thrombolites; they may be partially emergent above water for extended periods. Next lakeward is a zone of flat-topped, irregular, hard stromatolitic microbialites developed on hard substrates of varying depth but whose tops are impressive in their uniform depth; these structures apparently are never emergent. In deepest water throughout much, but not all, of the central portion of Stores Lake are columnal stromatolitic structures ranging from 10 to at least 70 cm in height whose tops are consistently 40-50 cm beneath the inferred minimum lake level. Between these columnal structures and ubiquitous throughout the lake beneath water depths of 20-30 cm is an organic ooze as much as 1 m thick that is covered by a soft but coherent alga layer.
27670509|Although microvertebrate accumulations are commonly used for paleoecological reconstructions, taphonomic processes affecting the final taxonomic composition of an accumulation are often ignored. This research explores the effects of abiotic taphonomic processes on the taxonomic composition of terrestrial microvertebrate accumulations by comparing a floodplain and a channel lag deposit from the Maastrichtian Hell Creek Formation in eastern Montana. Distribution of skeletal elements with specific physical attributes and relative abundance of taxa correlate with the hydraulic indicators (i.e., grain size, sedimentary structures) of the depositional facies. Transport distances, hydraulic equivalencies of dominant skeletal elements, amount of hydraulic sorting and reworking, and degree of time averaging vary between deposits and significantly affect taxonomic distributions. Relative abundance data, in conjunction with chi-square test results and rank-order analysis, show that size, shape, abrasion, and taxonomic compositions vary significantly between assemblages. The fine-grained assemblage is dominated by tabular, low-density elements, such as cycloid scales and fish vertebrae. Dense, equidimensional elements, such as teeth and ganoid fish scales, dominate the sandstone assemblage. Rank-order analysis results demonstrate that relative abundance of hydraulically equivalent skeletal elements from morphologically similar organisms can be compared regardless of accumulation in nonisotaphonomic deposits. Statistical comparisons were made among osteichthyans using ganoid scales, caudates using vertebrae, ornithischians using teeth, and testudinates using shell fragments. Results show that portions of the assemblage analyzed using hydrodynamically equivalent elements are not significantly different, despite different depositional environments.
3515749|Permian-Triassic boundary (PTB) sections from isolated carbonate platforms in the Nanpanjiang Basin of south China contain Upper Permian skeletal packstones with diverse open-marine fossils overlain by a 7-15 m thick boundary horizon composed of calcimicrobial framestone constructed by globular to tufted, calcified cyanobacteria similar to Renalcis. The framestone contains interbeds of lime-grainstone with abundant thin-shelled bivalves and brachiopods. The overlying Lower Triassic strata contain microgastropod lime-packstones followed by a thick succession of thin-bedded lime-mudstones. The PTB event horizon is interpreted to occur at the top of the packstone containing diverse, open-marine fauna and Palaeofusulina and coincident with the abrupt change to calcimicrobial framestone lacking Permian macro fossils. The conformable biostratigraphic boundary occurs at the first appearance of Hindeodus parvus within the basal meter of the calcimicrobial framestone. Intensively studied PTB sections in south China, such as the GSSP at Meishan, primarily are condensed sections from deep-water, basin environments that contain a thin (< 30 cm) boundary horizon of claystone and lime-mudstone or marl. The sections reported herein are fundamentally different in that they consist of shallow-marine carbonate facies, contain a thick boundary horizon composed of calcimicrobial framestone, and lack evidence of an abrupt shift in depositional environment or water depth. The calcimicrobial framestone boundary horizon occurs in all of the isolated carbonate platforms in the Nanpanjiang Basin. A similar microbial facies has been found in the basal Triassic H. parvus zone in the Sichuan Basin and in Japan. Distribution of the calcimicrobial framestone suggests that it may represent an anomalous oceanic event that affected a vast area of the equatorial eastern Tethys and Panthalassa during and/or immediately following the end-Permian mass extinction. The persistence of similar calcimicrobial framestone horizons into the Upper Scythian suggests that detrimental environmental conditions associated with the extinction persisted until the end of the Scythian. Further study of these sections promises to provide constraints on causes of the extinction and the environments in the aftermath.
10.2307/3514465|Event beds are strata attributed to rapid, episodic sedimentation. Such strata are recognizable throughout the geologic column. Even though these beds range widely in time and depositional setting (deep-sea turbidites to shelf tempestites), a few diagnostic features are common to all event beds: an erosional base, followed by a transition from planar to cross-lamination, and a "fairweather" top. Morphological features of event beds have changed little through time, but recent theories of increased infaunalization through the Phanerozoic predict that fewer event beds would be preserved after the infaunal explosion of the Jurassic. Consequently, the conditions under which post-Jurassic event beds are preserved must differ in some way from preservation of pre-Jurassic beds. A survey of recent literature on event beds from Precambrian to Recent strata reveals fluctuations in the number of these beds through time. Differences in the preservation of event beds through time may be attributed to certain aspects of the tectonic setting, specifically those which control both the frequency and intensity of the depositional events and the presence of infaunal burrowers.
10.2307/3515077|A survey of the taphonomy of marine reptile fossils indicates that saurian deadfalls, like modern vertebrate carcasses, may have had a marked effect on deep-sea paleoecology. These records suggest the following influences: 1) Marine reptile carcasses were sufficiently large, abundant, and widely distributed to have provided a significant source of energy in the deep-sea. 2) A saurian carcass sustained a series of communities whose composition, structure, and succession were dependent upon bottom conditions, particularly substrate stability and benthic oxygen levels. 3) By forming evolving patches of substrate, food, and topography unavailable elsewhere on the sea bed, reptile deadfalls increased benthic heterogeneity and enhanced deep-sea diversity. 4) As sources of sulfide scattered across the sea floor, reptile carcasses may have acted as stepping stones in the dispersal of chemosynthetic faunas.
20173010|A transitional Scoyenia-Mermia ichnocoenose from the Saint John River, Fredericton, New Brunswick, Canada, is dominated by elements of the Mermia ichnofacies, with traces comparable to Curvolithus, Helminthopsis, Gordia, Spirophycus, and Lockeia. Environmental characteristics are, however, more typical of the Scoyenia ichnofacies, with an emersion event providing conditions favorable to viewing traces preserved in a sand-softground substrate. Observation of in situ trace-making behavior allowed traces to be attributed to their progenitors, which include unionid and sphaeriid bivalves. An omission assemblage of vertebrate tracks also was present, comprising gull, raven, and mink. Oichnus-like borings were observed in some unionid shells. The shallow-tier trace assemblage created in a high-energy river channel may be expected to have a poor preservational potential, with loss of trace definition observed at the water margin during emersion and subsequent deterioration by eolian sediment transport.
10.2307/3514542|Rugosan horn corals are a common constituent in many Ordovician and younger Paleozoic marine units. Analyses of coral curvature, orientation, condition of the coral surface, associated borings and epizoans, and features in the surrounding matrix can provide information on the nature and intensity of environmental energy, mode and rate of sedimentation, and changes in sediment consistency. This permits paleoenvironmental reconstruction on a local and regional scale. A thin unit of dolomitic limestone and dolostone at the top of the Elgin Member in the Maquoketa Formation (Maysvillian-Richmondian) of southeastern Minnesota is unique among documented North American Late Ordovician strata bearing horn corals. A substantial proportion of individuals in these beds are preserved in situ and some of them are in life position. Deposition evidently occurred in relatively deep water above but near storm wave base, where the competence of currents generated during high-energy events was only moderate. These are considered to be the deepest-water solitary Rugosa known from Maysvillian-Richmondian epicontinental deposits of eastern and central North America. Within this region, horn corals in units that are lateral equivalents of the Maquoketa were transported and generally reworked repeatedly in shallower-water environments where the competence of storm-generated currents was high. The results of this study support the hypothesis that water depth was an important factor controlling the distribution of Late Ordovician solitary rugosan species.
10.2307/3515374|The oxygen isotope values (<sub>p</sub>) of turtle-bone phosphate for two freshwater emydid genera from the United States vary linearly with isotopic values (<sub>w</sub>) of environmental water. Mud, box, and snapping turtles do not fall on this regression line, while a soft-shelled turtle and marine loggerhead and leatherback turtles do. Although ectothermic, emydid turtles depend upon basking to raise their body temperatures. The mean temperature of bone growth is similar (31-33<sup></sup> C) in emydid individuals analyzed as indicated by their bone and body-water oxygen isotopes. Unlike regressions for mammals, the slope of <sub>p</sub> versus <sub>w</sub> for these emydid turtles is unity, suggesting that the divergence from equilibrium is due to simple fractionation between environmental water and body water. Thus, bone <sub>p</sub> values from these genera of turtles (and potentially others) may be used to reconstruct local meteoric water <sub>w</sub> values in the fossil record. Concurrent study of fossil freshwater fish or molluscs may then be used to reconstruct local paleotemperatures.
10.2307/3514661|Relict salt marsh sediments exposed along the eastern coast of St. Catherines Island, Georgia (about 200 to 1500 + years in age), contain fairly diverse and abundant foraminifera in addition to diatoms, ostracodes, fecal pellets, and particulate organic matter. Shallow subsurface sediment samples were collected from several relict low marsh habitats or subenvironments: ponded water marsh, streamside marsh, levee marsh, and creek bank/channel areas. Relict foraminiferal assemblages are overwhelmingly dominated by Arenoparrella mexicana, which accounted for 43% of all specimens identified. Other common and widely distributed species include: Siphotrochammina lobata, Trochammina inflata, Trochammina macrescens, Textularia palustris, and Miliammina fusca. In addition, Ammotium salsum and Reophax nana are abundant locally. Patterns of species abundance in relict marsh sediments differ from those in surface sediments of modern marshes of neighboring Sapelo Island, reflecting the infaunal occurrence of Arenoparrella mexicana in marshes of coastal Georgia, and perhaps the selective preservation of agglutinated species. Broad foraminiferal associations are also recognized, but they do not correspond to specific salt marsh habitats or subenvironments as closely as do their modern counterparts. Although all samples were collected from relict low marsh habitats, foraminiferal assemblages contain several typical high marsh representatives which may reflect an unusually high extension of low marsh halophytes into the intertidal zone in this area.
3515733|The taphonomy, sedimentology, and paleoecology of a rare peritidal hardground in the Lower Devonian (Lochkovian) Thacher Limestone Member of the Manlius Formation in east-central New York State provides insights into sediment dynamics and modes of life of ancient hard substrate-inhabiting organisms. The hardground occurs near the top of a shallowing-upward carbonate cycle, slightly below desiccation-cracked micritic ribbon limestones. The hard surface developed on a partially exhumed tentaculitid pavement and overlying pelletai calcisiltite; the hardground has a relief of about 2-3 cm and is overlain by a thin siliciclastic mud layer. Tentative correlation of the hardground across a lateral distance of about 35 km perpendicular to depositional strike suggests a very subdued topographic profile for this region and development of an extensive peritidal hardground pavement. Tentaculites gyracanthus occurs in a dense pavement of strongly bimodally aligned shells with an ENE to WSW orientation, parallel to the inferred paleo-shoreline. Some specimens also occur vertically embedded, suggesting possible life orientations within firm substrates. The presence of pits around the apertures of these shells suggests scouring effects around the shells burrowed into the substrate. Upper portions of the irregular hardground surface were preferentially colonized by an undescribed small postibulinid edrioasteroid, which may have lived somewhat like acorn barnacles on wave-swept rock platforms. The latter shows a population structure with few juveniles. Although fauna within the Thacher limestone includes leperditian ostracodes, ramose and encrusting bryozoans, Howellella vanuxemi brachiopods, and rare pterioid bivalves, the hardground community is rather limited. This low-diversity assemblage represents an unusual edrioasteroid-dominated hardground community type that persisted from at least Early Ordovician to Late Devonian in peritidal hardgrounds and rockgrounds.
27670429|Mudstones and siliceous concretions in the middle Cambrian Conasauga Formation, northwestern Georgia, contain body and trace fossils showing nonmineralized preservation and represent two temporally and spatially different marine environments. Identifiable, non-biomineralized taxa include components of a Burgess Shaletype biota with red and green algae, primitive sponges, and the arachnomorph arthropod Naraoia compacta. Also exceptionally preserved are the filamentous appendages of a large ptychopariid trilobite and assemblages of oriented hyolithid tests we interpret as priapulid coprolites and cololites. Exceptional preservation in the Conasauga Formation has multiple causes. The Conasauga contains superabundant siliceous concretions, many with skeletal, trace, and some nonbiomineralized fossils. Shale specimens, especially sponges with preserved details, and whole-body trilobite preservations, often have iron (Fe) oxide halos that resulted from a biochemical cascade including bioimmuration, decomposition gas anoxia, Fe-sulfide crystallization, and Fe oxidation. Preservation of soft tissue is also partly attributable to the well-sorted clay matrix of inner shelf Conasauga shales, which allowed mechanical imprinting of body fossils. Several nonbiomineralized fossils show algal overgrowths, suggesting an additional form of bioimmuration. Exceptional preservation in the Conasauga Formation is relatively poor compared with such better-known Cambrian Lagersttten as the Burgess and Wheeler Shales; nevertheless, it is significant for three reasons. The siliceous concretions are a rare vehicle for exceptional preservation and feature three-dimensional fossils rather than the more common compressed specimens. The older Conasauga biota occupied a shallow-shelf environment, a setting in which exceptional preservation is poorly understood. The Conasauga Formation extends the geographic range of a Burgess Shaletype biota to the extreme southeastern USA.
10.2307/3515630|Silicified microbes found on the discharge aprons around modern geysers and hot springs commonly appear to be preserved superbly. This can be attributed to their rapid silicification, which often begins while they are alive. In geological terms, therefore, they are silicified instantaneously. Thus, it might be expected that these microbes should be good replicas of the living organisms and, therefore, easy to identify in terms of extant taxa. Silicified microbes found on the discharge aprons around geysers and hot springs of North Island, New Zealand, are preserved through replacement and /or encrustation. Organic matter is typically absent, and examples of sheaths being partly replaced or coated by other minerals, such as iron oxide, have not yet been recognized. Accordingly, the cellular-level information needed for microbe identification must be gleaned from features preserved in the silica. Unfortunately, the silicification processes commonly destroy and/or disguise most of the taxonomic features that are necessary for reliable identification in terms of extant taxa. Silicification may, for example, obscure the presence of a sheath and/or significantly alter the size of the microbes. The loss and/or modification of such important taxonomic features means that the identification of silicified microbes is fraught with problems and must be approached with caution.
27670532|Phosphatic concretions containing mineralized three-dimensional plant and invertebrate tissues occur in a mid-Cenozoic terrestrial freshwater carbonate deposit at the Riversleigh World Heritage area in northwestern Queensland, Australia. Mineralogical composition and microstructure of the concretions show that this fossil assemblage was preserved by rapid, early diagenetic phosphatization. Preserved material includes tissues typically considered to have a poor potential for phosphatization, such as internal plant structure and arthropod exoskeletal components. Phosphatization may have been mediated by the presence of microbial films. Study of this rich assemblage has the potential to make significant contributions to both the Australian Cenozoic terrestrial invertebrate fossil record and the Cenozoic plant megafossil record of northern Australia.
10.2307/3515106|The recognition of habitat partitioning in ancient marine sedimentary sequences, via the development of a tiering profile, is an important part of the reconstruction of paleocommunities. Such tiering profiles are often established on the basis of either the cross-cutting relationships displayed by ichnofauna, or, the maximum, or characteristic, depths of their occurrence. However, a complete tiering profile may be preserved as a frozen profile. A change in the environmental conditions, for example upon rapid deoxygenation of the sediment profile, may result in the evacuation of the profile by the infauna and thus the production of a frozen profile. An alternative method of producing a frozen profile within event beds as a result of the nature of the depositional regime is proposed. The paleoichnocoenosis preserved in a sequence of interchannel deposits from a middle-fan environment in the Lower Carboniferous of eastern Menorca provides an example of this latter method; a simple, two-tiered profile is preserved as a frozen profile. The upper tier is a thoroughly bioturbated layer, dominated by Nereites delpeyi Bourrouilh, 1973; this is underlain by a partially bioturbated layer characterized by Dictyodora liebeana (Geinitz, 1867), and Arthrophycus minoricensis (Bourrouilh, 1973). After initial colonization of the event bed and establishment of a tiering profile by the infauna, no succession of tiers occurred because the thickness of inter-event bed deposits was minimal. Deposition of the succeeding event bed resulted in rapid relocation of the infauna, leaving the previous tiering profile preserved as a frozen profile. This frozen profile is preserved intact because the thickness of the succeeding event bed was greater than the depth from the sediment/water interface to the base of the lower tier.
10.2307/3515643|Rhodoliths from the Late Pleistocene Ironshore Formation in the Crystal Harbour area on the western part of Grand Cayman, which are up to 14 cm long, are characterized by thick cortices that were constructed around nucleii formed primarily of coral or bivalve fragments. Two different communities of encrusting organisms constructed the cortices. The thin inner zone (average ~2 mm thick) was formed by the Coralline Community which was dominated by Lithoporella, Lithophyllum and Neogoniolithon, along with fewer Peyssonnelia rubra, Hydrolithon reinholdi, Lithothamnium, and Porolithon. The thick outer zone (up to 60 mm thick) is dominated by Peyssonnelia rubra, along with scattered coralline algae, serpulid worms, foraminifera, and bi-valves. The Cayman rhodoliths grew in narrow zones surrounding large patch reefs that developed in water less than 14 m deep. The sciaphyllic Peyssonnelia rubra may have grown beneath a non-calcareous fleshy alga that covered the encrusting organisms. The change from the Coralline Community to the Peyssonnelid Community, evident in every rhodolith, probably represents a developmental succession in the encrusting communities.
10.2307/3514748|The evolution of calcareous skeletons at the beginning of the Cambrian and their subsequent elaboration have been explained as evolutionary responses to predators, to increases in body size, and to the physiological requirement to detoxify tissues of excess calcium. A critical review of the arguments and the available evidence suggests that, although the history of calcification bears the mark of strong extrinsic control, predation best explains the origin and subsequent elaboration of skeletons. Extrinsic factors, including increases in calcium and oxygen levels, provided the physiological and evolutionary conditions enabling skeletonized organisms to "explore" previously unexploited pathways; but elaboration of the skeleton was an option favored under some regimes of selection by predators, not an evolutionary necessity dictated by size increase or by the imperative to pump ever more calcium from the tissues into the skeleton.
25835619|Ophimorpha group trace fossils occur abundantly in a range of Eocene-aged deep-marine environments of deposition in the Basque basin, northern Spain. The morphology and dimensions of these trace fossils, observed in off-axis submarine lobe deposits, are discussed. The reported specimens display a highly organized and systematic burrowing behavior preserved on turbidite bed bases that display interconnecting Y-shaped (hexagonal-polygonal) morphologies. This observation, together with the cross-cutting relationship with tool marks, suggests construction of postdepositional agrichnial burrow networks. The networks probably harvested microbes that broke down cellulose-based organic matter providing an exploitable nutrient source for crustacean trace makers of Ophiomorpha. Therefore, the Ophiomorpha grouprelated traces discussed herein are postulated to represent an ethological response to changes in deep marine environmental conditions driven by global climate change during the early Paleogene, including the early Eocene hyperthermal events.
10.2307/3514995|Recent foraminiferal assemblages from four traverses across mangrove-lagoonal environments off Puerto Rico exhibit patterns of distribution that should be useful in paleoenvironmental interpretations. Variations in sediment substrate type, abundance and distribution of marine vegetation, and degree of exposure to wave and current activity appear to be important factors related to foraminiferal distributions and abundances. Cluster analysis of foraminiferal abundance data distinguishes four major assemblages. Foraminiferal assemblages in lagoons landward of mangrove islands are generally distinct from lagoonal assemblages seaward of mangrove islands. Samples taken from under fringing mangrove vegetation often contain mixed assemblages of lagoonal and mangrove species. A distinctive mangrove assemblage characterizes fully mangrove environments. Other generally recognizable trends in foraminiferal assemblages include: offshore increase in species diversity; offshore increase in percent miliolids while percent rotaliids remain more or less constant; small peaks in percent textulariids immediately adjacent to mangrove growth; almost 100% agglutinated assemblages in fully mangrove environments; offshore increase in foraminiferal number except in areas of abundant Halimeda plate production where numbers of foraminifera are diluted; restriction of high abundances of Fissurina, Nonionella, Fursenkoina and Helenina to lagoons behind mangrove islands; restriction of high abundances of Rosalina, Cibicides, Discorbis, Spiroloculina, Cyclogyra, Quinqueloculina, Amphistegina, Peneroplis and Archaias to lagoons seaward of mangrove islands. These trends provide a micropaleontological link between a potential petroleum source, mangrove swamps, and the potential petroleum reservoir, reef rocks. The preservation potential of foraminiferal assemblages in pre-recent mangrove-lagoonal systems is probably low due to the small size and delicate nature of the majority of tests. However, larger, robust foraminifera dominate in farther offshore, reef-associated subenvironments and hence barren or near-barren samples may indicate mangrove-lagoonal environments. Under optimum preservational conditions several subenvironments in a mangrove-lagoonal system may be discernible based on foraminiferal assemblages.
27670308|Certain members of the bryozoan genus Celleporaria form large, erect colonies of hollow branches (1030 cm tall and 13 cm diameter). These are common and conspicuous in Pleistocene and Cenozoic neritic strata of the southern margin of Australia. Most of these basins are characterized by decimeter-scale cycles through subtidal, heterozoan, cool-water carbonate sediments. Several intervals are further characterized by pervasive celleporarid bryozoan thickets (1030 cm thick), individual units of which can be traced for many tens of kilometers. Study of modern, live celleporarid bryozoans from the continental shelf of the Great Australian Bight (GAB), Pleistocene celleporarid mounds stranded below the shelf break of the Australian margin, and Miocene celleporarid thickets from the Murray and Torquay Basins indicates that Celleporaria thickets form under specific environmental conditions: i.e., low-energy or sub-swell wave-base settings, mud-silt substrate, medium-high mesotrophy, and moderate sedimentation rate. These conditions, however, are not site specific. They are manifested here in two different environmental settings: (1) a deep-water (>200 m), upwelling nutrient source, below the shelf break during extreme sea-level low stands; and (2) shallow-water (<50 m), terrestrial nutrient source, in embayments, far inland from the shelf break during relative high stands of sea-level. The celleporarid growth habit (species specificnot an ecomorph) allows their populations to proliferate in spatially restricted, transitional, geologically short-lived environments where most other bryozoans cannot cope. Their environmental sensitivity means that Celleporaria have great potential for paleoenvironmental analysis of Cenozoic carbonate Tethyan sediments.
10.2307/3514457|The serious study of dinosaur tracks, or applied dinosaur ichnology, is a field with considerable potential for paloebiological and paleoenvironmental interpretation. Despite being a neglected area of study, paleontologists have realized the potential of tracks in enhancing paleobiological interpretations pertaining to taxonomy, locomotion, social behaviour, biostratigraphic zonation and evolution. Where the study has really lagged behind is in its application to paleoenvironmental analysis. Recent studies have shown that tracks provide important, sometimes spectacular, paleogeographic evidence of shoreline configuration, paleoslope, absolute water depth and sediment saturation. In effect they may tell one as much about the paleoenvironment as they do about the trackmaker. In addition they have to be considered seriously for their contribution to the bio- or 'dinoturbation' process and for their taphonomic effects. The hitherto unrecognized geographic and stratigraphic abundance of dinosaur (and other) tracks in many regions indicates that they are a persistent rather than occasional feature of the geologic record. As such they warrant greater attention in many paleoenvironmental studies.
3514561|Shell coiling is readily visualized as a revolution and expansion of the shell's aperture around the coiling axis. Stereographic projections provide an effective tool for plotting the orientations of the aperture through time/space. In isometric growth, poles to the aperture (e.g., perpendiculars to the aperture plane) plot on a small circle on the stereographic projection, and the center of the small circle defines the orientation of the shell's coiling axis. The stereographic analysis requires no a priori determinations of the coiling axis position in the shell. Stereographic analyses consider shell growth in terms of rigid body motions of the entire aperture, as opposed to conventional methods that consider only the form of individual spiral trajectories (single points on the aperture). Stereographic projections offer a novel and instructive approach to the analysis of shell coiling.
10.2307/3514880|Here we reaffirm and document fossil ranges at the stratotype section for the base of the Whiterock Series in Whiterock Canyon, northern Monitor Range, Nevada, and designate a reference section at Meiklejohn Peak, Bare Mountain quadrangle, Nevada. In both sections, stratigraphic ranges of conodonts indicate that the boundary between the Whiterock and the underlying Ibex Series lies between Oepikodus evae below and Tripodus laevis above. This level is correlated with the inception of the Isograptus victoriae graptolite lineage. Coeval brachiopod and trilobite faunas are summarized and their ranges graphically illustrated. The base of the Whiterock Series seems to be coincident with the start of the Taconic Orogeny. During the Whiterock other tectonically controlled events preceded the Tippecanoe Sequence in North America.
27670536|The Triassic Ischigualasto-Villa Unin Basin is an extensional basin located in central-western Argentina. It includes the Los Rastros Formation, a lacustrine-deltaic sequence comprising several coarsening-upward cycles of black shale, siltstone, and sandstone. We performed a taphonomic analysis of the floral and faunal fossils of the Los Rastros succession and have defined five plant taphofacies, four invertebrate taphofacies, and four vertebrate taphofacies. Our taphonomic model characterizes four subenvironments within the lacustrine-deltaic environment of Los Rastros Formation. These include 1) offshore lacustrine, 2) prodelta, 3) deltaic mouth bar, and 4) deltaic plain subenvironment. Our analysis of fossil assemblages allows us to reconstruct the structure of the original ecosystem. The lake margins were vegetated with small ginkgophytes, corystosperms, and sphenophytes. River margins were characterized by riparian thickets of sphenophytes, while the proximal floodplains supported closed woodlands of corystosperms, cycadophytes, and pteridophytes. More distal floodplains were covered with open conifer forests. The invertebrate fauna included insects (Blattoptera, Hemiptera, Coleoptera) associated with lakeshore vegetation and conchostracans that inhabited both the lake shoreline and smaller ponds in the floodplains. Fish and temnospondyl amphibians probably inhabited the delta plain and incoming fluvial systems. The activity of nonmammalian therapsids, crurotarsal archosaurs, and putative dinosaurs is recorded by trackway surfaces in the lake shoreline subenvironment.
27670564|Linking biotic patterns across spatiotemporal scales provides a greater understanding of the processes that drive ecological and evolutionary change. Here, we examine how global patterns of biotic turnover are expressed in the structure of regional biotic gradients from the Illinois Basin (USA) during the late Paleozoic ice age (LPIA)an interval noted for low global rates of taxonomic turnover. Results indicate that the pre-LPIA interval is characterized by well-defined biotic gradients; depositional environments are dominated by distinct sets of taxa, arrayed along a gradient of substrate composition, and are clearly differentiated by ordination and ANOSIM analyses. There is a marked shift in gradient structure across the onset of the LPIA; environments become weakly distinguished, are dominated by similar sets of taxa that are widespread across the ramp, and are arrayed along a nearshore-offshore gradient. Our results are consistent with findings from global-level studies, which indicate that broadly adapted taxa (eurytopes) increased in importance following the start of the LPIA. Unlike the global level, however, the regional increase in eurytopy is not linked to the extinction of narrowly adapted taxa in response to climate change. Instead, eurytopy increased as the geometry of the Illinois Basin shifted from a flat carbonate ramp, composed of shallower-water and higher-stress environments in the pre-LPIA interval, to a steeper ramp comprising deeper-water and more stable habitats in the LPIA interval. We suggest that increased eurytopy drove (1) a previously documented decrease in regional-level turnover during the late Paleozoic and (2) a perceived pattern of greater persistence in late versus early Paleozoic biotic gradients.
10.2307/3514758|There is no agreement among investigators of abyssal benthic foraminifera on the sieve-size of samples best suited for distribution studies; 63, 125, and 250 m + sizes are commonly used. A faunal analysis of these fractions in two sets of deep-sea samples, one from the Caribbean, the other from the equatorial North Atlantic, demonstrates that a significant amount of information, including that on species diversity and dominance, is lost when the coarser sieves are used. The reported abundances of species in known water-mass associations of benthic foraminifera are not independent of specimen size. In an Antarctic Bottom Water assemblage from the Equatorial North Atlantic, a 250 m threshold size obliterates the dominance of Epistominella exigua and inflates the proportion of Cibicides wuellerstorfi. Eponides turgidus, another dominant member of this assemblage, is almost absent in both the 125 and 250 m + fractions. The same is true for Nuttallides decorata, the dominant benthic foraminifer in the Caribbean Bottom Water in the southeastern Venezuela Basin. Eponides polius, common in the Venezuela Basin assemblage, is absent in the coarsest fraction. We suggest that researchers choosing to work with coarser sieves in the context of their particular problems indicate what the proportions of common species would be if the 63 m sieve is used. This test could be made with just a few samples.
10.2307/3514569|Within the Upper Ordovician section exposed in the Cincinnati, Ohio region, pelecypods are important elements in a number of facies representing a variety of epeiric-sea environments. The fine-clastic, offshore-shelf facies of Edenian through early Richmondian age in the area support pelecypod assemblages dominated by endobyssate and semi-infaunal filter-feeding taxa. Locally within these strata, infaunal deposit-feeding pelecypods are abundant. Shallow-water Maysvillian skeletal-carbonate facies are dominated by articulate brachiopods and trepostomes, with pelecypods being minor elements of these faunas. Overlying Richmondian skeletal carbonates document the movement of increasing numbers of byssate filter-feeding pelecypods into these trepo-stome-thicket environments. The Richmondian biotas include a diverse assemblage of both endobyssate and epibyssate pelecypod taxa. These pelecypod assemblages represent largely endemic taxa restricted to the eastern portions of Laurentia, marginal to the Taconic landmass and the Queenston deltaic complex. Reconstructions of the life habits of these pelecypods demonstrate the dominance of the endobyssate mode of life in Ordovician pelecypod faunas. The presence of large numbers of filter-feeding pelecypods in both mud and skeletal facies in the Late Ordovician section exposed in the Cincinnati area suggests that these mollusks had become established in offshore as well as inshore shelf environments at this time. These first intrusions by filter-feeding pelecypods into offshore cratonic-shelf environments were truncated by the Late Ordovician extinction event, which had a devastating effect on the important endobyssate ambonychiid and modiomorphid pelecypod taxa. These pelecypod faunas in the Cincinnati area suggest that filter-feeding pelecypods were far more abundant and widespread in Ordovician epeiric-sea environments than previously published literature has indicated.
10.2307/3515081|Well-preserved specimens of the trace fossil Zoophycos are found abundantly in upper Pliocene middle bathyal deposits (Shiramazu Formation) of the southernmost Boso Peninsula, central Japan. The Shiramazu Zoophycos represents the product of an inverted conveyor activity of the tracemaker throughout its growth. Some of the Zoophycos occur in mudstone beneath a volcanic ash layer. These specimens contain tuffaceous pellets composed of pyroclastic material alone or of mud mixed with pyroclastic sand grains. Such specimens allow the recognition of synchronous individuals within the complex ichnofabric. This is because the accumulation of pyroclastic material on the seafloor, and its subsequent stuffing into the burrows via the gut by the burrowproducer, are thought to be a short-term event. The census fossil assemblage of Zoophycos containing tuffaceous pellets is analyzed and indicates a high population density, patchy spatial distribution pattern, and a markedly biased age structure consisting only of adult individuals. Factors considered important in controlling the spatiotemporal pattern and age structure of the Zoophycos animals include the following: the enriched organic matter for food and unstable chemicophysical bottom-conditions, both caused by the frequent influx of turbidity currents and rapid sedimentation of turbidites; and the episodic recruitment. It follows that the mud bottom was colonized only by individuals derived from an episodic recruitment during the interturbidite period and these subsequently formed patchy aggregations at the nutrient rich seafloor.
27670552|Taphonomic features of 156 graphoglyptids and other trace fossils preserved as hypichnia of thin-bedded turbidites in Oligo-Miocene flysch of the northern Apennines (central Italy) were analyzed. Two biogenic taphonomic categoriesdeformation and elongationwere produced in hemipelagic mud by the behavior of endobenthic organisms. Deformation includes such features typical of bulldozing and burrowing as twisting, squeezing, tilting, thickening, and widening. Elongation is considered a primary biogenic character controlled directly by the tracemaker. Taphonomic features induced by such physical agents as currents and creep usually developed unidirectionally and include stretching, straightening, smoothing, bending, tapering, thickening, and thinning. These features, associated with hundreds of microgrooves (510 per 0.01 m2) interpreted as mudcurrent lineations, suggest that currents were active and produced deformational structures of fluting before, during, and after the biogenic activity. Preservation of such delicate structures recognizable at different levels is particularly noticeable when a thin layer of fine material settled by suspension, molding all structures and producing a cemented film. Deformational structures may be particularly well preserved in thin-bedded (36-cm-thick) and fine-grained calcarenitic turbidites as in diluted turbulent flow deposits that fringed the isolated Verghereto High. Activities of epi- and infaunal communities in this area are also exceptionally well preserved. Physical taphocharacters of graphoglyptids are interpreted in two ways: (1) as true tool marks produced in mud by a tractive water mass preceding sand deposition by turbidite flows, or (2) as structures inherited from pre-turbidite phases. Taphonomic analysis in deep-sea deposits, therefore, is a promising methodology to resolve the preservational state of trace fossils above and below the soles of turbidites.
27670418|Analysis of the limestone-dominated Upper Ordovician (Chatfieldian-Edenian) Point PleasantFulton interval provides detailed documentation of the internal composition of a transgressive systems tract within a mixed-carbonate siliciclastic foreland basin succession. This 14 m interval is divisible into 13 small-scale cycles that are widely traceable and record a lithofacies gradient from calcarenite-rich out-crops of central Kentucky into interbedded fine-grained grainstones and organic-rich shale in the subsurface of western Ohio. Hardgrounds and condensed beds are widespread and numerous and commonly cap the limestone hemicycle of small-scale cycles. Taphonomicand faunal-gradient analyses of 233 bedding planes reveal both lateral and vertical gradients indicative of deepening from central Kentucky northward and a similar signature of deepening upward through the study interval. The deepening-upward trend within the Point Pleasant member is coincident with a decrease in the thickness of shale hemicycles, whereas the deepening-upward trend within the Fulton submember shows a slight increase in shale hemicycle thickness and quartz silt content. A polymictic intraformational conglomerate, the most complex discontinuity surface within the study interval, marks the contact of the Point Pleasant-Fulton members. The study interval, thus, is interpreted to represent distinctive early and late phases (Point Pleasant and Fulton members, respectively) of the transgressive systems tract separated by a maximum starvation surface. These patterns suggest that this widespread limestone-dominated interval formed primarily in response to basinwide, relative sea-level rise and siliciclastic sediment starvation, rather than simply through winnowing.
10.2307/3515592|From its inception during the early Miocene, the Suez Rift has been dominated by marine sedimentation. New high-resolution biostratigraphic and sedimentologic analyses of synrift deposits have resulted in the recognition of late Burdigalian-early Langhian brackish water and lacustrine deposits in the Wadi Abu Gaada-Gebel Gushia area, Sinai Peninsula. The Abu Gaada section is unique because: (1) it is an anomalously thick section of non-calcareous shale and mudstone in the Lagia Member of the Ayun Musa Formation; and (2) the mudstones contain an abundant microflora consisting of marine and nonmarine diatoms and freshwater algae that indicate they were deposited in a freshwater to brackish water environment. The abundant freshwater and shallow marine algae include the nonmarine diatoms Aulacoseira Thwaites, Fragilaria construens (Ehrenberg) Grunow, Synedra ulna (Nitzsch) Ehrenberg, and Surrirella Turpin, as well as the freshwater algae Botryococcus Kutzing and Pediastrum Meyen. Shallow marine diatoms are represented by Actinoptychus Ehrenberg, Actinocyclus ehrenbergii Ralfs, Paralia sulcata (Ehrenberg) Cleve, Rhaphoneis Ehrenberg, and Hyalodiscus Ehrenberg. Correlations with other coeval stratigraphic sections in the Sinai Peninsula indicate that brackish water and lacustrine deposition was localized in the Wadi Abu Gaada-Gebel Gushia area. This is explained by uplift and tilting of the bounding faults separating the Wadi Abu Gaada-Gebel Gushia block from adjacent rift blocks where normal marine conditions prevailed. The increased freshwater influence was the result of a rising water table during a period of rising sea level. As transgression continued, the barrier that separated the Wadi Abu Gaada depression from marine waters was eventually breached. Brackish water then filled the depression. Eventually a hypersaline lagoon formed in what previously had been a fresh waterlake, depositing the Markha Anhydrite. Correlative brackish water/lacustrine shales also have been found in the subsurface of the Gulf of Suez and thin coeval deposits are present on its southwestern margin. This reflects that the local occurence of these depositional environments was controlled by structural reorganization of fault blocks in the Suez Rift in response to the "mid-clysmic" tectonic event.
10.2307/3515082|Sediment cores from the north and south slope of the Iceland-Faeroe Ridge taken at water depths from 500 m on the crest and 1500 m from the south slope show the influence of different hydrographic and sedimentary regimes on biogenic structures. Bottoms on the north slope contain an almost monospecific community of Chondrites-like burrows, whereas ichnocoenoses on the south slope are more diverse and show partly complex ichnofabrics with the ichnogenera Scolicia, Zoophycos, Trichichnus, Anconichnus-like, large Planolites-like, Teichichnus-like burrows, Palaeophycus, Gyrolithes and Helminthopsis. Grain size, controlled by bottom currents and ice-rafting, as well as redox conditions of the sediments seem to be the main factors controlling this ichnological pattern. Bottom morphology and bottom water temperatures are additional factors.
10.2307/3515283|Infralittoral molluscs, whose normal living depths are less than 25 m, were recovered off the Nile delta between the coast and outer continental shelf and on the uppermost slope. At depths exceeding 25 m, these 13 species are interpreted as relict markers of former low sea-level stands of latest Pleistocene-to-Holocene age. Their concentration in coast-parallel belts also records the role of sea floor erosion by Holocene to modern bottom-current activity, and also displacement by bioturbation. Widespread distribution of reworked molluscan faunas and low rates (to <3 cm/1000 years) of sediment accumulation mapped on many parts of the shelf and upper slope record the overall sediment-starved nature of the Nile shelf. Where now concentrated in deep-water environments, infralittoral molluscs serve as markers to help define effects of the Holocene transgression, denote zones of intense erosion and biogenic reworking, and interpret both relict and reworked relict (palimpsest) patterns on the modern Nile shelf.
10.2307/3514873|Ichnofabric analysis is limited by insufficient data on the interplay of biological and physical processes in modern habitats to provide an actualistic basis for interpretation. For example, although callianassid shrimp have been active and abundant burrowers since the Mesozoic, there have been few studies delineating the impact on population size fluctuations or changes in sedimentary regime on the ichnofabric preserved in the sedimentary record. Replicated quantitative sampling of Callianassa californiensis in the sandflat habitat in Mugu Lagoon, California indicates that the population density decreased significantly from 169.5 m<sup>-2</sup> in 1976 to 105.6 m<sup>-2</sup> in 1990, and again between 1990 and 1991. Decrease in shrimp density between 1976 and 1990 correlates with major storm sedimentation events in 1978 and 1980 that deposited layers of sediment with a combined average thickness of 13 cm. However, because of C. californiensis' rapid rate of sediment reworking and ability to withstand burial by thick layers of sediment, the storm deposits were bioturbated and the record of the events obliterated. Between 1990 and 1991 the main tidal channel draining the lagoon migrated over part of the sampling plot, removing shrimp from the area subject to highest flow. Unlike the storm deposits, the record of the channel migration would be clearly reflected by bioturbated sands erosionally truncated and overlain by cross-laminated channel sands. Under these conditions, interplay of rate of biological reworking, population density, and environmental change leads to faithful preservation of gradual change (channel migration) in the sedimentary record, but to destruction of the record of rare storm events by bioturbation.
10.2307/3514463|Tube-like microproblematica have been identified in the lagoonal deposits of the Great Estuarine Group and Purbeck Formation of the British Jurassic. The tube walls are constructed of a spongy, agglutinated micrite and are probably the linings of'worm' burrows, although the actual identity of the burrow-constructing organism is unknown. The tubes are consistently found in deposits associated with former mudflat algal stromatolites and it is inferred that the burrow occupant was part of an infaunal mudflat community. These agglutinated, micritic tubes were susceptible to syn-sedimentary reworking and are now most commonly found in shallow-sublittoral lagoonal deposits. In the Great Estuarine Group extensive winnowing created current-aligned lags of these microfossils which can now be correlated over 40 km. They are therefore unusual but valuable stratigraphic markers.
3515763|In south-central Oklahoma, the Pooleville Member of the Bromide Formation is a shallowing upward sequence recorded by distal to more proximal storm-influenced shelf facies. The deepest subtidal facies contains horizons of dense clusters of a single species of isoteline trilobite, "Homotelus" bromidensis Esker. Two horizons were excavated and oriented slabs removed for detailed study. The lower horizon is dominated by exoskeletons that have librigenae and hypostomes in place and are interpreted as carcasses rather than molts. The upper horizon is composed largely of molts, as indicated by the opening of the facial sutures and, in many individuals, separation of the cranidium from the remainder of the exoskeleton. In both horizons, facing directions of the exoskeletons are random, and the majority of specimens are in convex-up orientations. All specimens are holaspids and encompass a narrow size range. The trilobite horizons immediately are overlain by sparsely fossiliferous lime mudstone or thin, barren clay layers. This suggests that catastrophic mud blanketing, probably during major storms, preserved the horizons. Thus, the Ordovician clusters represent snapshots of trilobite behavior. As with younger clusters of phacopid trilobites described from the Devonian of New York State, they most likely record behavioral aggregation of individuals for synchronous molting and reproduction. The occurrence of clustering in species from such phylogenetically distant clades as the Asaphina and Phacopida indicates that the aggregation is likely to have been a behavioral characteristic of trilobites in general. These assemblages also provide insight into the depositional dynamics in a otherwise monotonous interval of lime mudstones. They demonstrate an episodic pattern of sedimentation that would be overlooked without taphonomic analysis.
3514730|The concentration of free amino acids (FAA) increases in three species of bivalves, Tagelus plebeius, Rangia cuneata, and Phacoides pectinatus, taken from ever increasing depth in the upper 72 cm of a core from a mesohaline, sandy-bottom site in Copano Bay, Texas. Analysis of museum shells of known age indicates that [FAA]* increases with shell age (time-since-death) as the proteinaceous matrix gradually breaks down. Estimation of relative age (one shell older than another) in shells less than a few hundred years old is readily accomplished using a measure of [FAA]. The estimation of absolute age (actual time-since-death) depends on an independent calibration. Museum shells of known age offer one possible method. The glycine/alanine ratio decreases with time either because the rate of alanine production increases or because glycine diffuses out of shells more rapidly. Hence [glycine] is a useful estimator of age for relatively young shells and [alanine] or [glutamic acid] for older shells. Age estimates from calibration curves using museum specimens of T. plebeius and R. cuneata and independent estimates based on sediment accumulation rates agree for shells taken from the Copano Bay site. Measuring [FAA] provides a method to appraise the degree of time averaging in modern death assemblages because the relationship of shell age and burial depth can be determined. [FAA] changed little in shells below 72 cm in the core indicating that an increase in time averaging may have occurred below that depth, whereas, in the upper 72 cm, changes in death assemblage composition and, consequently, living community structure over time scales longer than a few years were preserved.
10.2307/3514534|As evidenced by the success of zooxanthellate coral species today, symbiosis with algae confers great advantages to organisms inhabiting the reef environment Although not as well known as their zooxanthellate counterparts, azooxanthellate coral communities, dominated by so-called "deep-water corals," can and do build constructional framework, harboring a variety of associated vertebrate and invertebrate fauna. As has long been noted, when it comes to reefs and constructional roles, zooxanthellate and azooxanthellate corals exhibit mutually exclusive relationships. This is traditionally explained in terms of competition. When zooxanthellate species are absent due to restrictive environmental conditions, azooxanthellate species may inhabit relatively shallow water, even building limited constructional framework. In some non-reef settings where zooxanthellate corals are not living under optimal conditions, azooxanthellate species can be found living alongside them. On the shallow-water reef as a rule, azooxanthellate corals are relegated to cryptic habitats not colonizable by the overwhelmingly dominant zooxanthellate species. A review of 16 well-documented examples of modern constructional azooxanthellate coral communities and their physical and biological characteristics reveals a wide variety of latitudinal and depth ranges, temperatures, species composition, thicknesses, and species diversity. In all major oceans, they are best developed in cold and relatively deep water, as deep as 1500 m, and from the equator to latitudes of over 70. Besides having a predominantly coral composition, some deep-water, azooxanthellate coral communities with extensive constructional framework have unexpected faunal diversity and presumably also complex interactions. The paleobiogeography and evolution of some of these deeper-water, coral-dominated azooxanthellate communities, known to have inhabited atolls and oceanic seamounts, may have been influenced by plate tectonic seafloor movements. While we are becoming increasingly cognizant of Holocene examples, counterparts in the geologic record are much more poorly known. The apparent paucity of ancient analogs may stem from difficulties in their interpretation and recognition in the geologic record. Judging from the size, facies relationships, faunal content, and diversity of Holocene examples, ancient deep-water coral structures, when preserved in the rock record, could be easily misconstrued as features of shallow-water origin. More careful analysis of deep-water Holocene examples can greatly expand our awareness of ancient analogs. In some cases, depending on the amount and thickness of construction, they could hold potential as hydrocarbon reservoirs. Azooxanthellate scleractinian communities are common in today's oceans and examples of them extend back to the Middle Triassic period. Fossil examples, unfortunately, are rare and sporadic in stratigraphic distribution, with the most notable reports from the Tertiary. Our view of the relative abundance of ancient counterparts may be hampered by poor preservation and problems of recognition.
10.2307/3514925|A modular organization confers many ecological advantages in reef-building settings, such as indeterminate growth leading to larger size, greater powers of regeneration, and an ability to encrust and gain secure attachment to substrates. The Archaeocyatha, an early Cambrian group of calcified sponges, were the first skeletal metazoans to develop a modular habit and to be associated with reefs. Archaeocyaths show the predicted ecological changes with the appearance of modularity. Supposed species may be facultatively modular, with modular ecophenotypes always dominating biohermal settings. However, only genera possessing porous septa show any development of modularity, suggesting that an initially well-integrated soft-tissue is a prerequisite for acquisition of the habit. Increasing integration and simplification of the skeleton can be correlated with an increase in soft-tissue flexibility. Even though high integration, skeletally simple stromatoporoid-like forms developed in irregulars, low integration, branching morphologies were by far the most successful. Irregulars show a strongly progressive trend of increasing modularity right up to the final extinction of the group. This confirms the widespread adaptive significance of integration in clonal organisms. Modular archaeocyaths survived beyond the extinction of most solitary forms, suggesting a relative immunity to extinction presumably on account of ecological response. The solitary nature of many archaeocyaths explains many of their previously supposed apomorphies. Modularity is an advanced condition in sponges and we suggest that paedomorphosis facilitates its acquisition in archaeocyaths. The widespread appearance of low integration modularity in different lineages of archaeocyaths is suggested to represent adaptation to reefbuilding settings in areas of relatively high turbulence, sedimentation rate and nutrient levels which may have predominated in the early Cambrian.
10.2307/3514676|Thin lagoon-margin clay beds of the Berriasian-Valanginian Jydegrd Formation contain monospecific assemblages of the bivalve Neomiodon angulata and the gastropod Viviparus cariniferus and polyspecific assemblages of Viviparus and juvenile bivalves. The three assemblage types were all formed by mass mortality. The N. angulata assemblage resulted from seasonal toxic dinoflagellate blooms, the V. cariniferus assemblage from desiccation of shallow ponds, and the polyspecific assemblage from storm washover. Paleoecologic, sedimentologic, and stable-isotope data show that the shallow bay or lagoonal waters fluctuated between almost fresh and brackish. Rapid changes in temperature and especially salinity can therefore be invoked to explain the mass mortality events. There is no direct evidence for hypersaline conditions. The beds with the Neomiodon angulata assemblages contain a highly unusual dinoflagellate flora consisting of only two species, one of which, Sentusidinium pelionense, constitutes over 99% of the assemblage. This suggests the occurrence of repeated virtually monospecific blooms of S. pelionense in the shallow, brackish water. Toxins formed during the bloom probably caused seasonal mass mortality of the opportunistic, salinity-tolerant Neomiodon faunas. The Viviparus cariniferus assemblages were probably killed during progressive desiccation of shallow lagoon-margin ponds. The polyspecific gastropod-bivalve assemblages were formed by washover during storms. All three types of assemblages were thus caused by mass mortality. The first two monospecific assemblages are non-transported census populations, while the third was formed by transport.
3515683|Shell-rich deposits of the Louisiana chenier plain (LCP) include three types: (1) cheniers, Holocene relict shorelines of 10-100 km in length that typically are composed of laterally continuous, planar beds primarily containing poorly sorted bivalves in a sandy matrix; (2) mounds, 3-5 m high, ~10 m across, anthropogenic structures composed of redeposited sediment that have been formed primarily through depositing basket-loads of nearby chenier sediment; and (3) middens, thin, unstratified lenses that are typically1-3 m long,, although they can be up to 100 m across, often lacking topographic expression, and composed primarily of large Rangia cuneata in a black clay matrix. Middens are deposited on cheniers by humans as refuse. LCP mounds often are recognizable using criteria such as topographic expression, and both middens and mounds often are identifiable through faunal composition and the presence of artifacts. However, efforts to record the cultural history of southwestern Louisiana have been hampered because many LCP mounds are now remnants (mounds that have been excavated for road fill and have lost their original diagnostic topographic expression from mound construction). Further, these archaeological deposits contain many of the same species found in cheniers, may be composed primarily of chenier sediment, and directly overlie cheniers. But, LCP cheniers, middens, and mounds have different depositional histories and it may be possible to develop additional stratigraphic, taxonomic, and taphonomic criteria to distinguish them. Preliminary tests indicate that the following criteria can be used to distinguish among these deposits. LCP cheniers typically are composed of alternating coarse- to fine beds of shell and fine- to medium sand. LCP middens examined are small lenses mainly of one molluscan species and black clay. The LCP mounds examined have a complex stratigraphy of mainly unlayered redeposited chenier sediment. Both mounds and middens exhibit somewhat greater taphonomic alteration (particularly chemical) than cheniers and contain evidence of human occupation, such as pottery fragments, vertebrate remains, and charcoal.
10.2307/3515279|Alluvially deposited carbonaceous beds are a major source of leaf compression fossils, but the accumulation of both the sediments and the fossils is poorly understood. We have studied the sediments and fossil plant assemblages of three laterally extensive carbonaceous beds from the Eocene of the Bighorn Basin, Wyoming. Field, laboratory, and microscopic observations show that carbonaceous beds are highly heterogeneous, varying in the amount and type of organic matter, preservation of primary sedimentary structures, and the prevalence of paleosol features. Small-scale lateral and vertical variations indicate a mosaic of conditions in the wet floodplain backswamp. The variables controlling this mosaic were primarily rate of clastic input and degree of substrate flooding which, in turn, influenced the amount of pedogenesis. Fossil plant assemblages occur in sediments least modified by pedogenesis, and the best preservation is in the distal, fine-grained portions of overbank flood deposits. There is no evidence for transport of plant material from channel to backswamp. Fossil leaves in a single quarry sample (i.e., those collected from within 10-20 cm stratigraphically and from an area of 4-10 m<sup>2</sup>) probably accumulated during one or several closely-spaced flood events. Quarry samples are thus spatially and temporally constrained "snapshots" of the vegetation that grew on the alluvial floodplain. Each carbonaceous bed is estimated to represent roughly 2,000 years, based on the length of fluvial avulsion cycles. Multiple quarry samples from the same carbonaceous bed can thus be considered coeval for most evolutionary or paleoclimatic analyses. In the central Bighorn Basin, laterally extensive carbonaceous beds are abundant in the lower and upper Willwood Formation, but essentially absent in the middle. We attribute this to tectonic and climatic change, especially to higher rates of sediment accumulation that caused greater dispersal of organic material within sediments and climatic drying that allowed degradation of organic material before it could be preserved.
27670353|Fossil vertebrates commonly are preserved in paleosols that originally formed on the floodplains of ancient rivers. Laterally adjacent paleosols that differ in terms of their chemistry and morphology due to geological and environmental gradients on the ancient floodplain are called pedofacies. Vertebrate fossil assemblages from the Willwood Formation (Bighorn Basin, Wyoming) are investigated to determine if there is a relationship between faunal composition and pedofacies. This question is particularly important for the Willwood Formation because it records dramatic temporal changes in both faunal composition and pedofacies across the PaleoceneEocene boundaryan interval marked by pronounced global warming. To understand the underlying causes of these temporal patterns, it is important to know the degree to which pedofacies and faunal composition are linked. Two separate analyses are conducted to investigate the relationship between pedofacies and faunal composition. Analysis 1 evaluates faunal compositions of established localities that are stratigraphically adjacent but characterized by different mean pedofacies. Results indicate that faunal compositions of these localities are not related to pedofacies but instead correspond to differences in the estimated body masses of the taxa. Results of Analysis 2, which evaluates new paleosol-specific collections from the same stratigraphic interval, indicate that different pedofacies are characterized by nearly identical faunas. The only exception is lizards, which are significantly more abundant in mature paleosols. Environmental gradients on the ancient floodplain seem to have exerted very little control on faunal composition at this spatial scale, but size sorting may have been an important taphonomic process in these Willwood collections.
10.2307/3515090|Paleobiology traditionally has received most of its stimulus from large datasets compiled from the literature and from analyses of museum specimens. The role of field work and the incorporation of the field context has been relatively minor. However, in part resulting from the recent revolution in the stratigraphic sciences, there has been a trend for more field-based paleobiological research. The paleobiological questions being addressed through field work fall between the "traditional" research avenues of paleobiology and field-based paleontology and can be considered the domain of "field paleobiology." These questions require the collection of fossils in a field context and directly incorporate field data into their solution. Examples include questions about radiations, extinctions, and recoveries. New approaches and sampling strategies are also reviewed.
10.2307/3515451|As a part of a general project that aims to reconstruct the paleosuccession of Paleogene mangroves of the Maracaibo Basin, this paper deals with the quantitative reconstruction of Middle Eocene mangrove communities, and their relation to potential forcing factors. Four palynological assemblages were found. These represent, respectively, inland forests (A1), back-mangrove herbaceous swamps (B1), mangroves (B2), and an unknown plant community dominated by the extinct Echitriporites trianguliformis. Mangroves were dominated by Pelliciera and Nypa; Brevitricolpites variabilis, which has been considered the dominant taxon of the early and middle Eocene mangroves in nearby areas, has not been found in this study. The succession of coastal vegetation, linked to sea-level changes, could be reconstructed from these assemblages. The trends constitute a palynocycle which began and ended with a low sea-level plant community dominated by unknown stands represented by E. trianguliformis and interpreted low paleosalinities; intermediate high sea-level vegetation is represented by mangroves and interpreted high paleosalinities. This cycle is correlated chronologically with the global eustatic cycle TEJAS A 3.4, extending from 44 to 42.5 Ma (Lutetian). The floristic composition of middle Eocene mangroves was very different from those of the Oligocene to Recent. An important, probably worldwide, evolutionary change occurred during the late middle Eocene and the late Eocene in these communities. Pollen taxa botanically related to known and extant mangrove elements seem scarce for this time span.
25835621|Macroids provide a stable and three-dimensional habitat to which seaweeds, coralline red algae and invertebrates can attach. Some of these organisms act as borers and leave traces which are preservable in the fossil material and are potentially paleoenvironmental indicators in palaeoenvironmental analysis. Although most investigations of ichnocoenoses have focused on shallow-water settings, boring organisms such as sponges, suspension-feeding bivalves, polychaetes and annelid worms may also act in deeper fore-reef settings. We describe for the first time the ichnocoenosis of Entobia, Gastrochaenolites, Trypanites and Maeandropolydora from deep water reef settings. This ichnocoenosis, commonly so far identified only in shallow-marine rockgrounds and hardgrounds and in firm, compacted, but unlithified substrates, occurs in living macroid assemblages ranging in water depth from 61 to 105 m, southwest of Kikai-jima, northern Ryukyu Islands (southern Japan). Importantly, this discovery strengthens the hypothesis that this ichnocoenosis can be utilized as a palaeoenvironmental indicator of low sedimentation rate and high turbulence rather than as a palaeobathymetric proxy.
10.2307/3515068|To investigate the genesis and evolution of New Jersey shelf sand ridges, foraminiferal assemblages were collected by vibracoring four shelf sand ridges (shoreface-attached, inner-shelf mid-shelf, deeper mid-shelf). Stratigraphic units delineated by seismic and sedimentologic data can also be recognized micropaleontologically. However, individual stratigraphic units recognized in the four ridges are shown via multiple discriminant analysis to vary from ridge to ridge based on their foraminifera-the foraminifera show greater inter-ridge variation than the sedimentologic/seismic units. For example, a Holocene back-barrier unit shows significantly more marine influence in ridge 3 (deeper-mid shelf) than in ridge 2 (mid-shelf). Similarly, swale/inlet fills in ridges 1B (shoreface-attached), 1A (inner shelf), 2 and 3 show considerable foraminiferal variation due to variable mixing of back-barrier and open marine faunas. Comparison of foraminiferal assemblages from the upper parts of vibracores with those of surface samples from boxcores indicates taphonomic loss of the more delicate specimens. However, after taking taphonomic loss into acount, the foraminiferal assemblages in surface sand are essentially identical to those in the underlying ridge sands which differ from ridge to ridge. Thus the ridge sands reflect time-averaged reworking. The foraminiferal data most closely support the hypothesis that ridge sand accumulated in a nearshore setting but was significantly reworked by inner to mid-shelf processes during the Holocene transgression.
10.2307/3515050|A winter storm struck the South Jersey shore near Atlantic City, New Jersey in 1992, excavating a population (10<sup>8</sup> individuals) of the burrowing infaunal surf-clam, Spisula solidissima, and depositing them above the high tide line. Nearly all individuals survived transport during the storm. Small clams at the base of the storm deposit reburrowed, larger individuals and small ones above the base of the deposit did not. The overburden of conspecifics most likely prevented them from attaining the requisite vertical burrowing orientation, or an underlying pavement of conspecifics blocked burrowing. Clams accumulated in piles or "dunes" standing as high as one meter on the beach and two meters in the lee of breakwaters and extending laterally <20 meters. Such accumulations might appear in the fossil record and as yet be unrecognized. Larger shells were often distinctively chipped at the anterior and posterior ends, probably as a result of collision with other shells during transport.
10.2307/3515126|On the basis of the relative abundance of species in 334 literature-derived paleocommunities the evolutionary history of Mesozoic benthic marine macroinvertebrate associations is evaluated quantitatively. The data base is analyzed within a framework of five broad environmental subdivisions (salinity-controlled environments, coarsegrained and fine-grained shallow shelf, mid to outer shelf, and oxygen-controlled environments), six time units, and 13 guilds. The guild-spectrum tends to be broadest in habitats controlled by biological factors. Under more rigorous and variable physical conditions ecospace is utilized less intensely than in stable and predictable environments. The quantitatively documented long-term patterns confirm the results of previous studies which applied a more qualitative approach. Both persisting and evolving aspects are evident: The permanence of various guild-assemblages and the evolutionary stability of morphotypes in all studied environments are outstanding features. Superimposed on these conservative aspects is a general trend towards increasingly shallow to moderately deep infaunal suspension-feeding life habits. This infaunalization can be traced back to the success of siphonate heterodont bivalves. Their evolutionary history illustrates the causal relation between major innovations, polyphyletic radiations, and the rise in relative abundance and biomass of an ecological group. The net increase of infaunal organisms was largely controlled by a rise in Mesozoic predation pressure and the adoption of new strategies.
10.2307/3514907| Sedimentological, geochemical and ichnological analyses of the Albian-Lower Eocene Guipzcoan Flysch (northern Spain) suggest that dissolved oxygen levels control the size of the preturbidite trace fossils on turbidite bed soles. Low-oxygen-tolerant trace fossils include indistinct, tiny ridges and knobs produced by deposit-feeding and possibly suspension-feeding animals. Simple traces, including members of the Planolites-Paleophycus and Thalassinoides ichnoguilds, display wide ranges of occurrence with respect to oxygen levels. Graphoglyptid burrows seem to have a narrower range, but they still indicate lower oxygenation levels. Among these, Paleodictyon minimum is the most tolerant. The gradual disappearance of graphoglyptids with increasing oxygenation may be related to specific food requirements or to competition with other bioturbators. The limits to which different traces tolerate low oxygen conditions correspond to their vertical tiering, i.e., deeper-tier ichnotaxa also range into less oxygenated areas than higher-tier forms. Not all traces, however, follow this rule (e.g., Paleodictyon minimum and Helminthorhaphe), probably because their producers had wider oxygen tolerances. 
10.2307/3514525|Lower Cambrian buildups were constructed by a consortium of calcareous cyanobacteria(?) and archaeocyaths in varying proportions. The earliest are small Renalcis-cored bioherms in the Tommotian of the Siberian Platform. During the Atdabanian Stage archaeocyaths diversified and assumed a more active constructional role. A barrier complex of bioherms and associated facies developed in equatorial latitudes on the Siberian Plate. Here termed the "Great Siberian Barrier Complex, " this carbonate barrier was over 800 km long and up to 300 km wide. The first paleoecologic studies of Lower Cambrian buildups were carried out by Soviet workers in the rocks of the Great Siberian Barrier Complex: During the Botomian Stage archaeocyathan diversity increased dramatically and the distribution and variety of buildups also increased. Botomian buildups of western North America display a complex morphology and four-stage community replacement sequence previously documented in younger Phanerozoic framework reefs. Botomian reefs of Antarctica display an especially wide variety of textures and show that archaeocyaths were not an essential component of framework reefs in the Lower Cambrian. Following a more-or-less continuous marine transgression during the first three stages of the Early Cambrian, the end of the Early Cambrian was a time of worldwide regression, here termed the Toyonian Regression. During this regression archaeocyathan diversity plummeted, while the associated fauna experienced a dramatic increase in diversity. Lower Cambrian reefs display a complex trophic web in which archaeocyaths with algal symbionts probably played an important energetic role. We present evidence that Renalcis and Epiphyton were cyanobacteria that could live autotrophically in well-lit settings, photoheterotrophically in dim light, and perhaps chemoheterotrophically in complete darkness. The diversity of reef morphologies and boundstone fabrics in Lower Cambrian reefs has been underappreciated, as has the faunal diversity of the reef community. Lower Cambrian reefs have much to teach us about the reef ecosystem generally, and the Lower Cambrian reef-building fauna, including archaeocyaths, could be an important source of data on the evolutionary paleoecology of the Cambrian fauna.
10.2307/3514986|The island of Hydra contains one of the most fossiliferous sequences of Permian rocks in the western Tethys. The Permian sequence is at least 500 m thick and ranges in age from Asselian to Dorashamian. The succession is not complete as several unconformities are present. It is subdivided into three groups containing ten formations, in stratigraphic order: 1) Thikia Group, divided into five formations, Nisitsa, Ormos, Lehusis, Mamantos, and Cap Rigas, of at least as old as late Asselian to early Artinskian ages; 2) Klimaki Group, divided into three formations, Riga, Cap Bisti, and Marmari, the upper part of which is at least of late Murgabian age; 3) Barmari Group, divided into two formations, Episkopi and Miras, ranging in age from late Midian to at least Dorashamian. It is possible that the Permian-Triassic boundary lies in the terrigenous upper part of the Miras Formation, however, the Permo-Triassic relationship is not evident because the stratigraphic succession is in fault contact with the overlying Middle Triassic (Anisian) Eros Formation. Fusulinaceans, other foraminifers, conodonts,brachiopods, and algae have been used to establish the ages of the various units that bear fossils. In the fusulinacean succession, which ranges in age from the zone of Pseudoschwagerina to the zone of Palaeofusulina, the Misellina minor through Neoschwagerina craticulifera and Yabeina globosa zones appear not to be represented by fossiliferous strata in the Permian rock record on Hydra. However, limestone bearing fusulinaceans from at least parts of these zones is present on two nearby small islands, Petasi and Trickeri. An interval of silicified limestone in the Episkopi Formation near the top of the succession has yielded a diverse assemblage of brachiopods. Measured sections and a geologic map of the Permian strata on Hydra are presented. Correlations are made with other important Permian Tethyan sequences.
40865410|Bone fossilization is generally thought to be predominantly slow and geochemically controlled, whereas soft-tissue preservation is rapid and microbiaUy enhanced. Microbial destruction of bone has been well researched, but potential preservational influences of microbes on bone are relatively unstudied. Building on previous work, this study examined evidence for microbiaUy induced mineralization of bone buried in a simulated terrestrial setting using an actualistic, experimental approach designed to allow both biotic and abiotic precipitation to occur. Four trials were conducted in 2002 by burying bleached fresh bone cubes in river sand through which calcium carbonate saturated water was percolated. A "natural" trial used unmodified river sediment with natural bacterial populations. Two trials were run with bleach or sodium azide to reduce or eliminate bacterial populations. A fourth trial used washed, bleached sediment with reintroduced bacteria. After one week, the natural trial showed signs of mineral precipitation that cemented sand grains to the bone cubes. Bones from both the natural and washed trials were completely covered by adherent sediment after six weeks. After twelve weeks, cancellous bone in the nonsterile trials was permineralized while antiseptic trials and compact bone showed no indications of permineralization. Nonsterile trials also exhibited partially calcified fungal hyphae and possible Minified bacteria. This study provides additional experimental evidence that microbes are important agents of fossilization for bone as well as soft tissue. It also supports the inference that microbiaUy induced mineral precipitation can play a significant role in bone fossilization by enhancing bone survival through early permineralization until apatite recrystaUization occurs.
40606490|Leaf margin analysis (LMA) is a widely used method that applies presentday linear correlation between the proportion of woody dicotyledonous species with untoothed leaves (P) and mean annual temperature (MAT) to estimate paleotemperatures from fossil leaf floras. Previous works demonstrate that LMA shows regional constraints and to date, no equation has been modeled directly from Chinese forests. Fifty humid to mesic Chinese forests were chosen to understand the relationship between percentage of untoothed leaf species and MAT in China. Consistent with previous studies, the Chinese data indicate that P shows a strong linear correlation with MAT, but the actual relationship is a little different from those recognized from other regions. Among the several currently used LMA equations, the one resulting from North and Central American and Japanese data, rather than the widely used East Asian LMA equation, yields the closest values to the actual MATs of the Chinese samples (mean absolute error = 1.9 C). A new equation derived from the Chinese forests is therefore developed, where MAT = 1.038 + 27.6 X P. This study not only demonstrates the similarity of the relationship between P and MAT in the Northern Hemisphere, but also improves the reliability of LMA for paleoclimate reconstructions of Chinese paleofloras.
40606525|Changes in marine upwelling can affect the radiocarbon content of seawater and thus affect the marine radiocarbon reservoir age, R. These radiocarbon variations are preserved in mollusk shell carbonate. Shellbased estimates of R in a variable-upwelling environment can be biased by (1) changes in molluscan growth rates due to fluctuating environmental conditions and (2) time averaging during sampling due to homogenization of days or weeks of precipitated carbonate. We modeled the growth, radiocarbon content, and radiocarbon sampling of two Peruvian mollusks, Argopecten purpuratus (bay scallop) and Mesodesma donacium (surf clam), to quantify these potential biases. Argopecten purpuratus grows year round, but M. donacium prefers cold conditions and its growth rate decreases in summer. Radiocarbon assays by accelerator mass spectrometry on multiple ~1 mg samples of a model A. purpuratus shell can capture the full range of annual R variation; similar sampling of a model M. donacium shell only captures 75% of this range. Given an annual R variation of 530 C yr, the mean R calculated using a group of ~1 mg carbonate samples from an A. purpuratus shell is within 30 C yr of the actual mean R; that of a M. donacium shell may be skewed up to 140 C yr older than the actual marine mean. If growth tolerances and parameters of mollusks used for R analyses are considered, it may be possible to correct for these biases and improve the accuracy of marine radiocarbon chronometry.
3515858|Cluster analysis reveals eight biofacies during a time of faunal turnover and regional oceanographic change in the middle Upper Ordovician of central Kentucky. These biofacies are arranged along a deep-water to shallow-water gradient, with the dalmanellid and the Sowerbyella biofacies in offshore facies, the Rafinesquina, the atrypid, and the ramose trepostome biofacies in deep-subtidal to shallow-subtidal facies, the Constellaria-Cyclonema and the Rhynchotrema biofacies in the shallow-subtidal facies, and the Solenopora-Hebertella biofacies in sand-shoal facies. These biofacies are not discrete, but rather they share a large number of taxa suggesting that they are arbitrary subdivisions of a depth-related ecological gradient. Nonetheless, they are useful as a point of comparison with other studies of this time interval in the eastern United States. Previous lower and middle Upper Ordovician biofacies studies portray a similar pattern of plectorthines and rhynchonellaceans in the shallow subtidal, strophomenids in the deep subtidal, and dalmanellids and plectambonitaceans in the offshore, indicating an overall temporal consistency to many of these biofacies at suprageneric taxonomic levels. Similarly, values of preferred depth, depth tolerance, and peak abundance of most taxa are generally conserved, and this is particularly true for abundant taxa. Nonetheless, this 2-m.y. record also indicates temporal changes in the occurrence of some biofacies, in the relative abundances of taxa in some biofacies, in the species membership within biofacies, and in values of preferred depth, depth tolerance, and peak abundance for several taxa. Collectively these indicate a dynamic aspect to an ecosystem that otherwise displays several attributes of stability and underscore that ecologic stability should not be viewed as a simple dichotomy between stability and instability. The dynamic aspects of this ecosystem suggest that these biofacies were not governed by extreme degrees of species interactions that resulted in near constancy of biofacies structure. Continuous changes in water temperature, nutrient supply, and turbidity during this time may have been a contributing factor to changes within this ecosystem.
10.2307/3515439|Intra-shell stable oxygen and carbon isotope profiles (<sup>18</sup>O, <sup>13</sup>C) were established for the common intertidal gastropod Littorina littorea to test if this species, thriving on the border between land and sea, would be suitable for studies on the paleoseasonality of coastal areas. Comparison of the L. littorea data with isotope records of a Mytilus edulis bivalve from the same locality as the L. littorea shells, and with literature data for M. edulis and M. trossulus, indicates that L. littorea would be useful for stable isotope studies on the coastal marine environment, whether concerning variability in physical (temperature and salinity) or biochemical (phytoplankton productivity) processes. The <sup>18</sup>O record representing the period prior to sexual maturity for each L. littorea shell is in agreement with the observed seasonality in surface-water temperature. This indicates that L. littorea precipitates shell calcite also during the temperature minimum in the winter. Responses in the shell <sup>18</sup>O to freshwater peaks in the spring suggest that oxygen isotope profiles of L. littorea also may be useful for detecting seasonal freshwater influx. The <sup>13</sup>C values for L. littorea are relatively high (0%o to 2.5%o) as compared with Mytilus (below 0.5%o), which may suggest that the calcite of L. littorea is precipitated close to isotopic equilibrium with <sup>13</sup>C of the dissolved inorganic carbon (DIC) of the water. This is probably related to a relatively low contribution of metabolic CO<sub>2</sub> to the extrapallial fluid of L. littorea. A negative intrashell correlation between <sup>18</sup>O and <sup>13</sup>C is found for L. littorea, reflecting the increased <sup>13</sup>C of the surface-water DIC in the summer related to the preferential incorporation of <sup>12</sup>C during phytoplankton photosynthesis. No correlation between <sup>18</sup>O and <sup>13</sup>C is found for the M. edulis specimen, probably because metabolic CO<sub>2</sub> overprints the variations in DIC <sup>13</sup>C.
27670568|Drill holes in prey skeletons are the most common source of data for quantifying predator-prey interactions in the fossil record. To be useful, however, such drill holes need to be identified correctly. Field emission scanning electron microscopy (FE-SEM) and environmental scanning electron microscopy (ESEM) were applied to describe and quantify microstructural characteristics of drill holes. Various specimens, including modern limpets and mussels drilled by muricid snails in laboratory experiments, subfossil limpets collected from a tidal flat (San Juan Island, Washington state, USA), and various Miocene bivalves collected from multiple European sites, were examined for microstructural features. The microstructures observed are interpreted here as Radulichnus-like micro-rasping marks, or predatory microtraces, made by the radula of drilling gastropod predators. The mean adjacent spacing of these microtraces is notably denser than the spacing of muricid radular teeth determined by measurements taken from the literature. Because the radular marks typically overlie or crosscut each other, the denser spacing of predatory microtraces likely reflects superimposition of scratches from repeated passes of the radula. One incomplete drill hole showed a clear, chemically aided drilling dissolution signature around its outer margin, while a number of other specimens showed similar, but ambiguous, traces of dissolution. The range of organisms examined illustrates the utility of scanning electron microscopy (SEM) imaging for identifying micro-rasping marks associated with predatory drill holes in both modern and fossil specimens. These distinct microtraces offer promise for augmenting our ability to identify drill holes in the fossil record and to distinguish them from holes produced by non-predatory means.
10.2307/3515089|Many constructional and taphonomic incongruencies dissolve if ammonites are modeled as active Cartesian divers, whose last septum remained a rubber-like, uncalcified membrane until the next chamber cycle began. If the prochoanitic invagination of the septal mantle served as a gas gland able to produce gas at or above ambient pressure, the chamber behind could be operated like a swim bladder by sutural muscles spanning across the septal mantle. Other septal functions probably served as evolutionary stepping stones on the way to this unique design.
3515864|The knowledge of fossil plant-insect interactions is almost entirely restricted to evidences of feeding behavior. Records of endophytic oviposition are relatively scarce, with previous earliest reports from the Middle to the early Late Triassic. Nevertheless, several Paleozoic insect taxa have been suspected of this reproductive behavior, but without any direct evidence. Specimens of Calamites cistii (Sphenophyta; Pennsylvanian, France) are described showing endophytic cavities, located in the outer cortex of the stem, a tissue that is rarely preserved. This new record shifts the appearance of this behavior back 60 Ma. Possible tracemakers are representatives of the Odonatoptera (Odonata and related extinct taxa), Palaeodictyopteroidea (extinct palaeopterous orders), and Archaeorthoptera (Orthoptera and related extinct orders). The antiquity of the insect endophytic oviposition behavior suggests that it could have been important during the emergence and diversification of the insect group.
40606484|Laser ablation-inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry (LA-ICPMS) was used to determine rare earth element (REE) content of 76 fossil bones collected from the Upper Cretaceous (Campanian) Two Medicine (TMF) and Judith River (JRF) Formations of Montana. REE content is distinctive at the formation scale, with TMF samples exhibiting generally higher overall REE content and greater variability in REE enrichment than JRF samples. Moreover, JRF bones exhibit relative enrichment in heavy REE, whereas TMF bones span heavy and light enrichment fields in roughly equal proportions. TMF bones are also characterized by more negative Ce anomalies and greater U enrichment than JRF bones, which is consistent with more oxidizing diagenetic conditions in the TMF. Bonebeds in both formations show general consistency in REE content, with no indication of spatial or temporal mixing within sites. Previous studies, however, suggest that the bonebeds in question are attritional assemblages that accumulated over considerable time spans. The absence of geochemical evidence for mixing is consistent with diagenesis transpiring in settings that remained chemically and hydrologically stable during recrystallization. Lithology-related patterns in REE content were also compared, and TMF bones recovered from fluvial sandstones show relative enrichment in heavy REE when compared with bones recovered from fine-grained floodplain deposits. In contrast, JRF bones, regardless of lithologie context (sandstone versus mudstone), exhibit similar patterns of REE uptake. This result is consistent with previous reconstructions that suggest that channel-hosted microfossil bonebeds of the JRF developed via the reworking of preexisting concentrations embedded in the interfluve. Geochemical data further indicate that reworked elements were potentially delivered to channels in a recrystallized condition, which is consistent with rapid adsorption of REE postmortem.
25835634|New collections of a leaf compression-impression paleoflora preserved in fluvio-lacustrine sediments of the upper Chickaloon Formation, south-central Alaska, United States, provide leaf physiognomic climate estimates for the early Eocene in southern Alaska and rare data on plant-insect interactions from a subarctic setting. Thirty-nine broadleaf angiosperm morphotypes occur in a parautochthonous assemblage along with Metasequoia shoots and trunks, compressions of a diverse suite of seeds, monocotyledonous aquatic plants, freshwater gastropods, and inclusion-bearing dispersed amber. Leaf-character derived mean annual temperature estimates (1114.6 C) are significantly warmer than Alaska at present and indicate warm temperate conditions at the time of deposition. Leaf-derived mean annual precipitation estimates of 110160 cm/annum are comparable to those from similar-age paleofloras in Arctic Canada and indicate wetter conditions than nearly coeval paleofloras further south in the North American mid-latitudes. Leaf herbivory is rare in the Chickaloon assemblage (9% of leaf fragments) as compared to other, lower latitude Eocene assemblages, but exhibits four of the main leaf-damage guilds (hole feeding, margin feeding, surface feeding, and skeletonization). These data provide a rare glimpse at a high-latitude terrestrial forested ecosystem during a global hothouse climate phase and thus have implications in understanding how biogeographic patterning and ecological systems respond to non-analog, warm high-latitude environmental conditions.
20172977|Prey material, which was collected from beneath the nests of two pairs of crowned hawk-eagles (Stephanoaetus coronatus) in the Ngogo study area, Kibale National Park, Uganda, was analyzed to identify the taphonomic features diagnostic of eagle predation. Material from a recent three-year collection interval was compared to an earlier three-year collection subsample to determine signal consistency over time. The bulk of the assemblage is comprised of cercopithecoid monkey remains, reflecting the taxonomic composition of the Ngogo area. Taxonomic composition of the assemblage remains highly consistent over the collection period. Bone survivability and fragmentation profiles, as well as damage patterns, also were investigated. Crowned hawk-eagles inflict much less damage to prey skeletons than do mammalian carnivores. Crania, scapulae, and hindlimb elements are most likely to survive predation by crowned hawk-eagles and to be concentrated at nest sites, but these elements (especially crania) show age-specific patterns of fragmentation and damage. Bone survivability profiles remain highly consistent throughout the duration of the collection period. Fragmentation and damage patterns--when tallied quantitatively--are more variable, but do not resemble those expected under predation by mammalian carnivores. Regurgitated elements in hair boluses also were examined; when compared with the rest of the assemblage, they show very different patterns. In summary, crowned hawk-eagle predation provides a taphonomic signature distinguishable from those of other predatory accumulating agents (e.g., non-human mammalian carnivores, owls, and humans), and this signal remains consistent over time, leading to the expectation that it may remain intact in fossil assemblages.
10.2307/3515399|Deep-water stromatolites are a conspicuous facies in the fore-reef successions of the Upper Devonian reef complexes of the northern Canning Basin. Stratigraphic analysis shows that the stromatolites are present in a diverse range of sedimentological associations which precludes using their distribution to indicate only transgressive or only regressive conditions during reef evolution. All the stromatolites grew at localities where little or no platform-derived sediment could be deposited, either because no sediment was being supplied from the platform or the stromatolites grew at sites protected from sediment gravity-flow deposition. The latter enabled some stromatolites to grow during times of high productivity on the platform (i.e., during high-stands). For example, bioherms developed on downslope sides of allochthonous blocks, near-vertical eroded platform margins, eroded pinnacles, and basement topographic highs, until buried by fore-reef sediment. Other bioherms and biostromes grew on open slopes when little platform-derived sediment was being deposited during times of lowered relative sea level (i.e., lowstand and transgressive systems tracts). These stromatolites record depositional breaks during carbonate or siliciclastic sedimentation, and are typically accompanied by other facies indicative of very slow sedimentation or slope reworking (i.e., bioturbated limestones and intraclastic breccias). Water depths and 'growth' rates remain poorly constrained; however, consideration of stromatolite accumulation within a sequence-stratigraphic framework suggests rates of at least 50-100 microns / year. Although this is a minimum rate, it represents a substantial increase on previous estimates of a few microns / year.
10.2307/3515272|The use of archetypal ichnofacies in facies interpretation is criticized because it does not provide the resolution that can be obtained by using traditional methods of paleoecological analysis: analyzing the autecology and then moving to the synecology (including the ichnofabric) and synthesis.
3515718|A high-resolution paleoecological analysis of an outcrop of the Pleistocene Fort Thompson Formation was conducted at the Caloosa Shell Quarry near Ruskin, Florida. This study was designed to create a conceptual framework for future evolutionary and paleoecological studies. A massive shell bed was sampled using bulk replicate sampling of small stratigraphic intervals in several stratigraphic sections. The data set derived from the molluscan remains was analyzed using principal components, factor, and cluster analyses to define fossil assemblages. Guild analyses and comparison to modern analogs of the ancient species were used to determine the most likely set of paleoenvironmental and paleoecological conditions at the time of deposition. Multivariate analyses indicate two distinct faunal assemblages. An assemblage dominated by the bivalve Carditamera floridana and other grass-dwelling mollusks was recognized from the lower zone of the outcrop. Samples from the upper zone contained an assemblage dominated by the burrowing clam Chione cancellata as well as other grass and sand dwelling mollusks. The lower zone assemblage had lower paleoecological complexity, and a higher abundance of the opportunistic, salinity-tolerant mactrid Mulinia lateralis, indicating less stable paleoenvironmental conditions. These results indicate that there were two distinct sets of conditions in effect at different times during deposition. The earlier fauna indicates the presence of sea grass, but also environmental instability, perhaps due to fluctuating salinity. Later, a richer fauna combining sea grass-dwelling organisms with sand-loving taxa developed. Morphometric and further paleoecologic analyses of individual taxa common to both faunal assemblages uncovered significant variability correlated with paleoenvironmental setting. Without the conceptual framework deduced from the paleoecologic analysis, this variability would have been either missed or difficult to interpret.
3515705|The extent to which origination and selective extinction influenced the structure and dynamics of Caribbean coral reef communities is evaluated by comparing the diversity and distributional patterns of coral species in two Dominican Republic reef sequences prior to and following late Cenozoic Caribbean faunal turnover. The two sequences consist of the late Miocene Arroyo Bellaco reef of the Cibao Valley, northern Dominican Republic, and the late Pleistocene 125-ka reef terrace of the southern Dominican Republic. Samples were collected along 20-meter transects (10 Miocene, 10 Pleistocene); species identifications were made using standard sets of characters and morphometrics. In particular, species of Montastraea annularis-like corals were distinguished within each sequence using a 2-dimensional landmark technique involving average linkage cluster analysis, discriminant analyses, and non-parametric tests. Four Miocene and four Pleistocene species were recognized. Subsequent community analysis was two-fold: (1) whole coral community, and 2) distribution of the Montastraea "annularis" complex. For the whole coral community, occurrence matrices of transect samples, assembled separately for Miocene (35 species) and Pleistocene (20 species) reef sequences, were analyzed using average linkage cluster analysis, multidimensional scaling, similarity percentages, one-way analysis of similarity, and non-parametric tests for independent samples (Mann-Whitney U, Kruskal-Wallis H). Three assemblages were recognized within each sequence, which correspond with back-reef, reef-crest, and reef-front facies defined independently on the basis of sedimentological criteria. Comparisons between the two sequences suggest that widespread species (ecological generalists) are more common within the Pleistocene sequence than within the Miocene sequence. Fifteen of thirty-five (43%) Miocene species occur in single reef facies compared to five of twenty (25%) Pleistocene species. Of the five species found within both reef sequences, four occur in all three of the identified Miocene reef facies; one was found in two of these three facies. For the distribution of the Montastraea "annularis" complex, samples of M. annularis-like corals were examined to determine if distributional patterns of species within the complex were similar before and after faunal turnover. The four M. annularis-like corals identified within each reef sequence had markedly different distributional patterns. During the late Miocene, cohabitation within reef facies was low. Following faunal turnover, cohabitation within facies increased. This result further suggests that niche partitioning may have been reduced on post-turnover reefs. The results support the hypothesis of selective extinction of ecologically restricted species during Plio-Pleistocene turnover. Despite the prolonged and continuous nature of faunal turnover, reef community change involved more than species replacement-the underlying structure of reef communities and their biological interactions were fundamentally altered.
3515707|Based on study of modern foraminifera, changes in test porosity of ancient planktic foraminiferal specimens may be interpreted to reflect primarily changes in water temperature. To test this hypothesis, planktic foraminiferal porosity data (percent pore space per unit area) of Hedbergella delrioensis from three localities in the Cretaceous Western Interior basin were analyzed in the context of basin history (e.g., relative sea-level). These data record spatial and temporal changes in water masses at the average living depth of H. delrioensis. A significant increase in porosity between the upper Cenomanian M. mosbyense biozone and lower S, gracile biozone suggests an increase in water mass temperature, reflecting northward advection of a central core of warmer (less dense) water into the central seaway. The spread of this water mass toward the north, and laterally east and west, correlates with an independent record of rising sea-level. In addition to this secular porosity trend, higher frequency fluctuations may reflect transient oceanographic events related to changes in sea-level or circulation. In this study, porosity measurement was improved utilizing a scanning electron microscope and image analysis software. The work confirms prior results that as few as five foraminifera are required to produce a statistical assessment of average sample porosity. Use of pore concentration (number of pores per unit area), previously suggested as a temperature proxy, was not supported. The major interpretative contribution is a temporally precise record of spatial changes in Western Interior water masses.
10.2307/3515471|Stromatolites are commonly viewed as sedimentary proxies for microbial communities. In consequence, secular variation in stromatolite form has been attributed to evolutionary change in mat organisms and/or their interactions with global environments. This interpretation requires that one be able to identify features of stromatolite macrostructure or microstructure that are under direct biological influence and use them to document the sedimentological or petrological consequences of microbial evolution. Well-preserved stromatolites in Proterozoic carbonates of the Siberian Platform contain two distinctive types of microstructure that enable us to address such issues. Preserved microstructures in Baicalia lacera and Tungussia confusa from lower Neoproterozoic (lower Upper Riphean) platform carbonates of several widely separated regions clearly reflect the biology of underlying mat communities; mm-scale laminae of densely interwoven calcified filaments alternate with filament-poor microspar. Comparable carbonate microstructures are known from a number of other Neoproterozoic stromatolites, but are as yet unreported from older successions. Filamentous cyanobacteria formed mats throughout the Proterozoic Eon; thus, the temporal distribution of this microstructure appears principally to reflect secular and environmental variations in carbonate cementation and diagenesis. Omachtenia omachtensis is the characteristic stromatolite of Mesoproterozoic (Lower and, occasionally, Middle Riphean) successions of the Siberian Platform and elsewhere. Its distinctive microstructure consists of mechanically deposited event laminae separated by thin organic films that served as nucleation sites for micritic and, less commonly, fibro-radiate carbonate precipitates. Microbial mats may have stabilized sediments between events, but there is little evidence that mats played an active role in the trapping and binding or precipitation of laminae. Thus, physico-chemical factors must also be responsible for the distribution of these stromatolites in time and space. Analysis of these two microstructures suggests that, in general, secular trends in stromatolite microstructure may encrypt important information about environmental change through the Proterozoic Eon. Microbial evolution may also play a role in determining the stratigraphic distributions of particular Proterozoic stromatolites, but this remains to be demonstrated. Evolution may be most important in driving the progressive environmental restriction of stromatolite-forming microbial communities through time.
27670608|Stratigraphic architecture exerts a powerful influence on the vertical distribution of fossils and should be considered before biostratigraphic and paleobiologic interpretations to avoid interpretations of patterns that are actually stratigraphic artifacts. Previous numerical models of the stratigraphic distribution of fossils were developed for siliciclastic settings, which also work well for mixed carbonate-siliciclastic settings. These models are evaluated here using the Upper Ordovician Bighorn Dolomite, which was deposited on a tropical carbonate platform. The Bighorn Dolomite contains three third-order, unconformity-bounded depositional sequences, which correspond closely to the Steamboat Point, Leigh, and Horseshoe Mountain Members and are correlative with the C2, C3, and C5 sequences of the eastern United States. The Steamboat Point and Leigh Members record greenhouse conditions and are characterized by meter-scale parasequences with weakly defined flooding surfaces and minor internal facies changes. Absent in these units are well-defined parasequence sets with strong upward-deepening or upward-shallowing trends. In contrast, the Horseshoe Mountain Member reflects a transitional climate and consists of 10-m-thick, well-developed parasequences that clearly stack into upward-deepening (transgressive) and upward-shallowing (highstand) systems tracts. Fossil associations within the Bighorn Dolomite fall into five biofacies that reflect depositional environment and age. The brachiopod biofacies is found in deep subtidal facies, with the gastropod facies and crinoid biofacies in shallow subtidal facies. The dasyclad biofacies and coral biofacies are limited to the shallow subtidal facies of the Steamboat Point and Horseshoe Mountain sequences, respectively. In the greenhouse sequences, biofacies transitions are gradational, whereas they are abrupt and correspond to major flooding surfaces in the transitional climate sequences. Similarly, first and last occurrences are not clustered in the greenhouse-climate sequences, although they are elevated near the maximum flooding zone. First and last occurrences are clustered in the transitional-climate sequence where open marine facies border the sequence boundary, at major flooding surfaces, and where open marine facies are last expressed.
3515709|Twelve peat clasts were recovered from a paleochannel deposit on Skidaway Island, Chatham County, Georgia. An AMS radiocarbon date from a plant stem in one of these clasts indicates original peat deposition 36,830  340 <sup>14</sup>C years B.P., and the stratigraphic position of the clasts supports this age assignment. Fossil Pinus needles, pollen, and testate amoebae provide a snapshot of the environment and biota at a time when most other sites in coastal Georgia were not accumulating sediment. Pollen from the peat clasts is dominated by Pinus and other genera common on the coastal plain today (e.g., Quercus, Carya). Morphological and anatomical analyses of the fossil Pinus needles indicate they are either Pinus taeda or Pinus serotina, which both currently inhabit the Coastal Plain of Georgia. Seven testate amoeba taxa, all characteristic of relatively dry peatland conditions, were encountered in the clasts. Testate amoeba assemblages are dominated by Hyalosphenia subflava, a taxon that is not typically dominant in modern assemblages. More investigations describing the occurrence and distribution of Quaternary testate amoebae, as well as modern ecology and biogeography of testate amoebae, are necessary before the significance of these assemblages can be assessed fully. Deposition of the peat clasts occurred at a time when pollen evidence from Florida indicates warm and wet climatic conditions, and the paleoecology of the peat clasts indicates that a relatively warm climate also existed in coastal Georgia.
25835611|Interregional correlation of the marine zones of major cyclothems between North America and eastern Europe does not support assertions that a major stratigraphic gap exists between the traditional regional Desmoinesian and Missourian stages in North America. Such a gap was previously proposed to explain an abrupt change in megafloral assemblages in the northern Appalachian Basin and by extension across all of North America. Conodont-based correlation from the essentially complete low-shelf Midcontinent succession (distal from the highstand shoreline), through the mid-shelf Illinois Basin, to the high shelf of the Appalachian Basin (proximal to highstand shoreline) demonstrates that all major 400 kyr cyclothem groupings in the Midcontinent are recognizable in the Illinois Basin. In the Appalachian Basin, however, the grouping at the base of the Missourian is represented only by paleosols and localized coal. The immediately preceding grouping was removed very locally by paleovalley incision, as is evident at the 711 Mine, Columbiana County, Ohio, from which the original megafloral data were derived. At the few localities where incised paleodrainage exists, there may be a gap of 1000 kyr, but a gap of no more than 600 kyr occurs elsewhere in the Appalachian Basin at that level and its magnitude progressively decreases westward into the Illinois (300 kyr) and Midcontinent (<200 kyr) Basins. Thus, while a gap is present near the DesmoinesianMissourian boundary in North America, it is typically more than an order of magnitude smaller than that originally proposed and is similar to the gaps inferred at sequence boundaries between cyclothems at many horizons in the Pennsylvanian of North America.
27670395|Images in the monographic literature represent an important but relatively untapped resource for paleontologists. In particular, they could provide vast amounts of body size data. It is possible, however, that images of specimens represent a biased sample of the fossil record. Thus, the quality of these data must be assessed before body size estimates from the literature can be used in analyses. Two complementary datasets were constructed for a group of bivalve and brachiopod species from the Paleozoic and the Cenozoic. The monograph dataset consisted of length measurements taken from all unique images of a species in a monograph. The counterpart bulk dataset consisted of comparable measurements taken from a set (n > 10) of bulk-collected specimens of the same species acquired from the same locality as those figured in the monograph. These paired datasets were used to assess the quality of monographic data. Bias direction and magnitude were assessed by using the bulk sample of a species as an estimate of its underlying size-frequency distribution. Bias was estimated for each monographed specimen by calculating its percentile-value in relation to the size-frequency distribution for that species. All species groups had mean values within the 70th to 85th percentile range, indicating a significant bias toward monograph specimens that are larger than the mean of the bulk sample. The consistency of bias was evaluated by comparing the monograph sample mean to the bulk sample mean for each species. When compared in bivariate scatter plots, all species groups yielded significant regression lines with slopes near unity, indicating highly consistent, yet predictable, bias in each case. This trend persisted when the data were grouped taxonomically, geographically, or by year of monograph publication. These results indicate that size measurements of monographed specimens of bivalves and brachiopods consistently record similar size classes for most species. This bias is easy to remove and doing so renders size data from images in monographs useful for macro-evolutionary studies of body size.
3515795|Sandstone pillars in the Lower Jurassic eolian strata of the Clarens Formation are concentrated in clusters, with up to four pillars within 25 m<sup>2</sup> in two localities in the Tuli Basin of northern South Africa and southern Zimbabwe. The pillars are generally vertical, have a preserved height of up to 3.3 m, and are elliptical in plan view. Pillars are grouped into two styles of architecture: those with oriented elliptical shapes and side buttresses, and those less well oriented with a smooth outer wall, internal open spaces, and vertical shafts cutting the pillar. The long axes of the elliptical pillars are generally oriented to the north. Northwards-oriented side buttresses also are associated with some of the pillars. The internal architecture of the pillars is characterized by intense bioturbation with two different burrowing styles. Type 1 burrows are composed of a network of randomly oriented, anastomosing sandstone-filled tubes, 0.3 to 0.8 cm in diameter. Type 2 burrows are rare, north-south oriented, and have a smaller diameter. Other associated features are back-filled tubes, open, vertical shafts, and open spaces between the interior and exterior of the pillars. The pillars are interpreted as fossilized termite nests. Type 1 burrows are interpreted as termite passageways within the nest. Type 2 burrows may be related to invading ants. Back-filled burrows may be a result of either beetle predation on resident termites or backfilling by termites themselves. The strong north-south orientations are comparable with modern-day nest architecture of magnetic termites in northern Australia, where nest-orientation is related to cooling. The orientations and features reported here are interpreted to be modified for the high latitudes proposed for the Lower Jurassic Clarens desert. Complex nest architecture preserved in the Clarens Formation suggests that advanced eusocial behavior and ability to construct large nests had appeared in African termites by the Early Jurassic.
40606507|Diverse and locally abundant Lowermost Triassic (lower Induan, Griesbachian) trace-fossil assemblages are described and their significance for the location and characteristics of western Pangean environmental refugia are assessed. Trace fossils within the Montney Formation in northwestern Alberta and northeastern British Columbia record the activities of a wide variety of marine invertebrates. Many forms represent the dwelling and feeding traces of autochthonous storm-transported colonizers. Anachronistic formsmore typical of Paleozoic than Mesozoic successionsincluding Cruziana, Diplichnites, Monomorphichnus, and Trichophycus, are common. Notably these Paleozoic holdovers, as well as Rhizocorallium, Thalassinoides, and Spongeliomorpha, were likely constructed by marine arthropods. Trace fossils are rare in both shallow water (upper shoreface and foreshore) and offshore depositional settings, but are abundant in offshore transition to distal lower shoreface depositional settings. Low diversity and low ichnofabric indices characterize autochthonous infauna in Montney offshore transition settings, whereas high diversity, low ichnofabric indices distinguish allochthonous infauna in the same settings. High diversity and high ichnofabric indices typify distal lower shoreface successions. Several lines of evidence, including diminutive trace fossils and low diversity of resident infauna in proximal-offshore settings, support the hypothesis of shallow marine anoxic to dysoxic conditions in the study area during the Griesbachian. This trace-fossil distribution, and the abundance of allochthonous faunas in the study interval, reflect an infauna whose distribution was limited by both wave-stressed proximal settings and oxygen-stressed distal settings, resulting in colonization of a very narrow habitable zone. High diversity of trace-fossil assemblages in the study interval suggests the presence of shallow marine refugia wherein organisms survived the extinction interval and weathered the adverse conditions that dominated the world's oceans during the lowermost Mesozoic. Mid-to high paleolatitude refugia, such as the Pedigree-Ring-Kahntah area, played a crucial role in both extinction survival as well as post-event recolonization of the world's oceans.
25835617|The mammalian fauna of the so-called chalicothere pit, lower Eocene basal Arshanto Formation, Erlian Basin, Inner Mongolia, comprises at least eight species, of which Litolophus gobiensis is the most abundant large mammal, represented by at least 24 individuals and 1252 specimens of skulls, mandibles, and postcranial elements. The Litolophus assemblage is dominated by young adult individuals, while juveniles are under-represented, an age profile that conforms to the theoretical model of a catastrophic assemblage. The assemblage is characterized by skeletal elements with limited weathering and moderate disarticulation, and a paucity of isolated teeth, suggesting that the carcasses were probably exposed to the environment after death for only a brief period. Fluvial activity was prominent and had sufficient energy to align most long bones of Litolophus (153.1 kg in mean value) in a NNE-SSW direction. Most elements in the assemblage belong to Voorhies Groups II and/or III, while elements of Group I are rare. In addition, the Litolophus carcasses were evidently disturbed by predators and/or scavengers before burial. Damage to the ends of long bones is unevenly distributed, probably reflecting both preferential feeding behavior by predators or scavengers and the timing of epiphyseal fusion in Litolophus. The scarcity of juvenile individuals can also partially be attributed to predation or scavenging; however, it seems unlikely that the chalicothere pit was a scavenger den.
10.2307/3514910| The deep-sea floor off New Caledonia was investigated during three successive multidisciplinary (biology/geology) cruises from 1985 to 1989: BIOCAL, BIOGEOCAL, and CALSUB. The main study area is the Loyalty Basin, which comprises a deep (2300 m) trough with a flat bottom and steep slopes topped by coral reefs. This basin is filled by a thick sequence of Recent hemipelagic muds and turbiditic sands, silts and muds. The slopes, which are strongly eroded, are locally covered by a thin layer of recent hemipelagic muds. Many biogenic traces occur in all muddy deposits. The trace assemblages of the basin bottom characterizes typical deep-sea ichnofacies with burrows, mounds, tracks, trails, and fecal castings. Two main ichnofacies are evidenced: a deep slope ichnofacies and a deep plain ichnofacies. The distribution of biogenic traces is probably controlled by the greater food supply on the slopes. The main trace makers that could be identified are holothurians and enteropneusts. Some traces, sampled by boxcoring, correspond to ichnogenera that are well known in fossil deposits (e.g., Paleodictyon and Urohelminthoida. One novel trace occurs on bathyal slopes, at depths exceeding 1300 m. It is made up of one mound and several holes forming a horseshoe ("Fer  Cheval") = the FC trace. It is strictly restricted to the slope, oriented according to the declivity, and very common between 1600 and 2000 m. So, this trace provides a very good environmental index. Bioturbation and erosion strongly hinder the preservation of these biogenic traces. Rapid burial by slightly or non destructive distal turbidites seems to be the only possible fossilization process. 
10.2307/3515369|In contrast to mollusks, drilling predation on echinoids rarely has been investigated. Two minute clypeasteroid echinoids (Fibularia ovulum and Echinocyamus crispus) from the Northern Bay of Safaga, Red Sea, Egypt, were examined for drill holes using numerous samples collected from several bottom facies. Out of 1076 tests, 566 (52.6%) were drilled (45.8%-Fibularia ovulum, 70.7%-Echinocyamus crispus). The cylindrical shape of drill holes, their small size (mean diameter =0.9 mm), acid-etching traces, and current biological knowledge suggest that these holes were produced by cassid gastropods. All holes are complete and unrepaired and tests with multiple holes are rare (6%) suggesting a very high success rate of predatory attacks. The other echinoids in the study area are rarely or never drilled. The minute clypeasteroids are preferred prey due, most likely, to their abundance and poor defensive mechanisms. Predation frequencies vary greatly, both within and across bottom facies, reaching up to 83%. Such variation may hamper reconstructions of the long-term patterns in the fossil record of drilling predation on echinoids. Drillhole outlines are highly variable due, most likely, to the presence of plate boundaries and pores in the prey tests. This suggests that such variation should not be used as sole evidence for presence of multiple predators or for variable predatory behavior. Predators drill preferentially the aboral (dorsal) side of the test (84.9%-F. ovulum, 99% -E. crispus), but do not appear size-selective. The drilling frequencies appear to be independent of the taphonomic state of the tests, suggesting that the preferential destruction of drilled tests during the pre-burial (biostratinomic) taphonomic phase is unlikely. The drilling frequencies in minute clypeasteroids are comparable with the highest frequencies previously reported for other modern echinoids, and are much higher than those typically reported for fossil echinoids as well as for other Recent and fossil prey of drilling predators.
10.2307/3515281|Benthic assemblages associated with pen shells (Pelecypoda: Pinnidae) in a Holocene back-barrier marine environment and in an exposure of Mississippian rocks that are inferred to be back-barrier marine deposits, appear to have more structural similarities than differences, despite their separation by over 300 million years and dominance by organisms that are not closely related taxonomically. Both of the studied assemblages occur in fine-grained, calcareous siliciclastic deposits. Excluding the pen shells, each assemblage is dominated by three species, all of which are epibenthic suspension feeders in the Mississippian association, while two of the three are epibenthic suspension feeders in the Holocene association. However, the Mississippian dominants are free-lying or byssally attached, while one of the two epibenthic dominants in the Holocene association is cemented (Crassostrea) and the other is an intermittent swimmer (Aequipecten). The Holocene assemblage has a substantially higher proportion of shallow burrowers than did the Mississippian assemblage, which may be a contributing cause of the differences in life habits of the dominant species, inasmuch as mobile and cemented epibenthic organisms are less likely to be disturbed by churning of surficial sediment by shallow burrowers than are free-lying organisms. Within the Holocene study site, pen shells are found only in marine grass beds. The Mississippian pen shells are associated with a conspicuously increased abundance of erect bryozoan fragments and also with a higher species richness than associated beds within the measured stratigraphic section. It is inferred that the erect bryozoans baffled currents, thereby reducing flow velocity and increasing the availability of microenvironments, in much the same way as modern sea-grass patches that contain pen shells.
10.2307/3515248|Fossil wood and leaves of Nothofagus beardmorensis Hill, Harwood and Webb occur within the Sirius Group in Antarctica, a sequence of Pliocene glacial sediments that crop out in the Transantarctic Mountains. Growth forms and tree rings in the wood and the morphology of the leaves indicate that these plants were deciduous dwarf trees that developed a prostrate habit with branches which spread across the ground surface. Despite their small size the narrow growth rings indicate that the trees were mature plants which grew very slowly under harsh conditions. Comparison with growing conditions and habits of prostrate shrubs at similar high latitudes in the arctic today suggests that mean annual temperatures in the Transantarctic Mountains were well below freezing, probably about -12<sup></sup> C, with short summer growing seasons with temperatures of around 5<sup></sup> C. This estimate for the Late Pliocene climate of Antarctica is considerably cooler than previous estimates based on these fossil plants.
27670486|The main objective of this contribution is to evaluate the environmental fidelity of dead diatom assemblages along two microtidal estuarine systems from southeastern Buenos Aires Province (Argentina). Living communities (inferred from counting protoplasmcontaining cells) were compared to dead diatom assemblages through several fidelity metrics. Gradient analysis (by canonical correspondence analysis) was applied in order to assess the quantitative relationship between diatom assemblages and the environmental gradient. The presence of allochthonous components in diatom assemblages was assessed by analyzing the distribution of the main ecological groups. Results indicated a good agreement between living communities and total assemblages in surface sediments, as well as between total surface and subsurface assemblages from both estuaries. A high percentage of the variance in diatom assemblage composition was explained by the environmental gradient, particularly by sediment composition and salinity, indicating that taphonomic alterations play a minor role in structuring these assemblages. The good preservation of diatom thanatocoenoses in estuarine sediments makes them accurate indicators of the environmental conditions at the point of deposition, providing useful information for paleosalinity reconstructions in coastal settings.
3515170|Silurian pinnacle reefs, the first described in the Canadian Arctic Archipelago, are exposed on Ellesmere and Devon islands. Two main reef trends occur, one of early middle Llandovery to middle Ludlow age and a second of middle Ludlow to Late Silurian or Early Devonian age. Reefs of both phases contain lime mudstone cores: some are stromatactoid-rich, and others consist predominantly of microbialite-rich lime mudstone or microbial boundstone. Facies sequences of both reef phases show evidence of upward-shallowing overall, but in the older reefs, isochronous capping facies are dominated either by coral-microbial boundstone, an unusual reef facies for the Silurian, or by stromatoporoid boundstone and floatstone. This difference perhaps reflects variation in wave stress and the apparent ability of a few corals thickly encrusted by, or associated with, microbial boundstone and skeletal algae to withstand greater wave energy than a stroma-toporoid-coral-rich reef community.
10.2307/3515240|The <sup>18</sup>O values of vertebrate bone phosphate are dependent upon the <sup>18</sup>O values of their body water and the temperature of bone deposition. This allows the measurement of the temperature fluctuation during bone deposition for individual skeletal elements within any individual. <sup>18</sup>O results for bones from a varanid lizard and four Late Cretaceous ornithischian dinosaurs (Orodromeus makelai, Hypacrosaurus stebingeri, Montanaceratops sp., and a juvenile Achelousaurus horneri) from the Campanian Two Medicine Formation in Montana are compared. Results from the varanid indicate that bone deposition occurred over a range of 10-15<sup></sup> C, as expected for an ectotherm. Results from the dinosaurs indicate that bone deposition occurred over a range 2-7<sup></sup> C within the body core and 3-8<sup></sup> C in the extremities. The intrabone and interbone pattern of <sup>18</sup>O values suggests that these dinosaurs were primarily homeotherms with all but Orodromeus exhibiting regional heterothermy. Homeothermy over the size range of the individual dinosaurs suggests that they had metabolic rates elevated above those of modern ectotherms and the range of isotopic variability suggests intermediate endothermy.
40865409|The upper Ediacaran Gaojiashan Lagersttte (551-541 Ma) in southern Shaanxi Province, South China, hosts a variety of soft-bodied or lightly biomineralized tubular fossils (Shaanxilithes, Conotubus, Gaojiashania, Sinotubulites, and Cloudina) and calcareous microfossils (Protolagena).This study focuses on the fossiliferous middle Gaojiashan Member at the Gaojiashan section, where pyritization of soft-bodied or lightly skeletonized tubular fossils is the primary mode of preservation. Integrated paleoecological, sedimentological, and taphonomic analysis shows that event deposition played an important role in the biostratinomy of the Gaojiashan Lagersttte. Gaojiashan fossils, particularly pyritized fossils, preferentially occur in mm-thick, normally graded calcisiltite-siltstone layers, interpreted as distal event deposits, but are rarely present in calcilutite-mudstone beds.Two taphofacies are recognized in the middle Gaojiashan calcisiltitessiltstones, on the basis of biostratinomic data (e.g., fossil fragmentation and disarticulation). Both taphofacies contain fossils (Conotubus, Gaojiashania, and Protolagena) that were buried in situ by distal event deposits below the average storm wave base; evidence for in situ burial includes oblique orientation, rejuvenation, growth interruption, and reorientation. This research represents one of the few biostratinomic studies of Precambrian Lagersttten. Results show that the Gaojiashan Lagersttte, like many Phanerozoic Konservat-Lagersttten, was influenced strongly by event deposition that provides an obrution mechanism for quick burial. Although some taphonomic processesthose responsible for Ediacara-type and Burgess Shale-type preservationmay be restricted to certain geological time intervals, others such as sedimentary obrution and rapid burial may have been continuously and universally important in exceptional preservation throughout geologic history.
10.2307/3515187|The Devonian to Carboniferous sinters of the Drummond Basin, Australia, are among the oldest well established examples of fossil subaerial hot springs. Numerous subaerial and subaqueous spring deposits are known from the geological record as a result of the occurrence of economic mineral deposits in many of them. Some are reported to contain fossils, but very few have been studied by paleobiologists; they represent an untapped source of paleobiological information on the history of hydrothermal ecosystems. Such systems are of special interest, given the molecular biological evidence that thermophilic bacteria lie near the root of the tree of extant life. The Drummond Basin sinters are very closely comparable with modern examples in Yellowstone National Park and elsewhere. Thirteen microfacies are recognisable in the field, ranging from high temperature apparently abiotic geyserite through various forms of stromatolitic sinter probably of cyanobacterial origin to ambient temperature marsh deposits. Microfossils in the stromatolites are interpreted as cyanobacterial sheaths. Herbaceous lycopsids occur in the lower temperature deposits.
27670580|The OligoceneMiocene Transition (OMT) was an interval of regional environmental and biotic change on Caribbean reefs. During the late Oligocene, a diverse Tethyan biota contributed to extensive reef building across the region, but by the early Miocene, reef building had declined, and a regional extinction had removed up to 50% of the late Oligocene diversity. The general decline in reef building in the Caribbean has been attributed to changes in regional water quality. New collections of scleractinian reef corals from four different units in the northwestern Falcn Basin of Venezuela include distinct late Oligocene and early Miocene assemblages. The distribution of fossil coral species and reef limestones suggests that the thick carbonates of the San Luis Formation were deposited during the late Oligocene and that changing water quality during the OMT resulted in the demise of San Luis coral-reef ecosystems. Previous studies have noted an increase in surface-water productivity after the OMT in the region and have suggested oceanographic reorganization as the primary cause; this interval, however, also coincides with a switch in the outlet position of an ancestral Orinoco River. A change in the terrestrial geography of South America might have caused the regional decline in reef building by altering surface-water characteristics, just as modern Orinoco and Amazon outflows exert strong control on shallow-water habitats off the coast of northeastern South America.
10.2307/3514762|A well-exposed section of the lower Eocene Wasatch Formation near Arvada, Wyoming, was examined palynologically. The 60-70 m section includes a 2.5 m thick coal tentatively correlated with the Felix coal and a series of coarsening-upward sequences representing standing-water environments. In the lower part of the section wetland forests of Glyptostrobus were widespread as indicated by pollen percentages of 40-75%. During accumulation of the coal swamp, Glyptostrobus dominated the initial phases of swamp vegetation, but due to subsequent changes in basin subsidence and drainage it was eventually replaced by a vegetation in which Ulmaceae and Sphagnum were dominant. Platanus, Tilia, Gentianaceae, and Alnus maintained a consistent presence throughout development of the coal swamp. In samples from above the coal several palynomorphs were recorded that provide evidence of the sedimentological conditions which followed coal swamp inundation. Under standing-water environments, plants flourished that were adapted to growth on lake margins or within lakes; Platycarya became more prominent as a lake- and stream-margin plant, and in the lakes' freshwater zygnemataceous algae, the aquatic fern Azolla, and Sparganium were common. The OK Creek section is of early Eocene age based both on the presence of Platycarya, Tilia, and Eucommia, and on the low abundance of juglandaceous pollen-especially Carya and the Engelhardia-Alfaroa group-when compared to their abundance in late Paleocene sediments from the same geographic region. The almost synchronous appearance of Platycarya in North America is a useful datum. Evolution within the family Juglandaceae, climatic warming in the early Eocene, and availability of early successional habitats may have all acted to produce this biostratigraphically important event.
10.2307/3514645|Uvigerina peregrina from the continental slope of the eastern United States exhibits morphological and distributional evidence for distinct populations at water depths from about 700 to 5000 m since 25,000 years before present (YBP). During the glacial maximum (18,000 YBP) this species occupied water depths from 2400 to 4350 meters. Beginning 16,000 YBP, U. peregrina diverged into two populations. The main population ranged from 3000 to 4350 m water depth, contracted during late glacial and early Holocene time, and finally vanished from a depth of 3600 m at 8000 YBP. An isolated portion of the glacial age population survived between 2100 and 2300 m and connected the late glacial and late Holocene populations of U. peregrina. The modern population of U. peregrina first appeared about 4000 YBP and is confined to water depths of 900 to 3000 m with its acme between 1600 and 2500 meters. Fourier shape analysis shows that the modern and glacial age populations of U. peregrina are morphologically distinct. The observed morphological and distributional differences indicate that the modern and glacial-age specimens represent discrete populations rather than an upslope migration of a single population. Water masses of the western North At lantic have significant control on the spatial and temporal distribution of this species. Paleobathymetric and paleoceanographic reconstructions using U. peregrina should consider the population affinity, especially in the western North Atlantic.
10.2307/3514893|Two distinct horizons of the pentamerid brachiopod Costistricklandia lirata occur in the upper part of the Red Mountain Formation (Lower Silurian) in northern Alabama. Stratigraphic and sedimentologic characteristics of the rocks associated with the brachiopods suggest water depths of 15-150 m during times of low rates of terrigenous influx. Costistricklandid assemblages from the lower horizon are composed of extremely large individuals in association with a diverse population of large corals. They are interpreted to have lived in a protected environment. In an overlying horizon, costistricklandids occur in growth position at the base of a thick siliciclastic interval. These brachiopods lived in a storm-dominated environment and were buried in situ by the rapid influx of sediment associated with a passing storm.
27670409|All previously known dinosaur remains on the Adriatic-Dinaridic carbonate platform (ADCP) were described from Cretaceous deposits. A new trackbearing locality is late Tithonian in age and represents the oldest evidence of dinosaurs on the ADCP. The site is in an active quarry near the village of Kirmenjak in western Istria. Almost a thousand sauropod footprints including 23 single trackways have been found on the outcrop. Oval impressions represent pes prints, and horseshoe-shaped impressions represent manus prints; pes prints are 23 to 52 cm long. Calculated heights at the hip range from 153 to 306 cm. The main direction of dinosaur movement was toward the northeast, and some of the individuals were moving together. The trackways show a characteristic narrow gauge, and pace and stride lengths indicate a slow walk. The footprints are similar to Parabrontopodus ichnogenus, and the ichnocoenosis could be assigned to the Brontopodus ichnofacies. The presence of the sauropods on the Adriatic-Dinaridic carbonate platform during the Late Jurassic could be explained by connection with the African continent via its southern margins during emersion.
3515738|The Chesapeake Bay impact structure, formed by a comet or meteorite that struck the Virginia continental shelf about 35.5 million years ago, is the focus of an extensive coring project by the U.S. Geological Survey and its cooperators. Organicwalled dinocysts recovered from impact-generated deposits in a deep core inside the 85-90 km-wide crater include welded organic clumps and fused, partially melted and bubbled dinocysts unlike any previously observed. Other observed damage to dinocysts consists of breakage, pitting, and folding in various combinations. The entire marine Cretaceous, Paleocene, and Eocene section that was once present at the site has been excavated and redeposited under extreme conditions that include shock, heat, collapse, tsunamis, and airfall. The preserved dinocysts reflect these conditions and, as products of a known impact, may serve as guides for recognizing impact-related deposits elsewhere. Features that are not unique to impacts, such as breakage and folding, may offer new insights into crater-history studies in general, and to the history of the Chesapeake Bay impact structure in particular. Impact-damaged dinocysts also are found sporadically in post-impact deposits and add to the story of continuing erosion and faulting of crater material.
40606487|Freshwater bivalves with exceptionally well-preserved gill supports occur in the Upper Triassic (Carnian) mudrocks at the Krasiejw claypit in southern Poland. X-ray EDS (energy dispersion system) spectrometer analysis reveals that the originally chitinous gill supports are secondarily mineralized in calcium phosphate. Co-occurrence of mineralized bacteria suggests they were involved in the phosphatization process. Actualistic taphonomic experiments using the freshwater mussel Unio tumidus suggest that mineralization was completed between 50 to 150 hours after the death of the fossil bivalves.
10.2307/3514784|Every major marine invertebrate and vertebrate group (except the mammals) uses cavities (cryptic habitats, herein referred to as crypts) in reefs as a domicile, for temporary shelter, or as a source of food. Some crypts can expand in size, allowing the cryptobiontic community to display all successional stages; pioneering assemblages can thereby maintain themselves by capturing new substrate as it appears. In habitats that have a fixed size (e.g., under boulders), the initial advantage, upon the opening of the habitat, goes to rapid-establishment and rapid-growth organisms (such as solitary forms), which lose dominance as the system matures. More overgrowth-competitive, but often slower-growing organisms (such as colonial forms) then take hold. An additional control that may help explain the dominance of colonial over solitary cryptobiontic forms is the greater longevity of colonies. In shallow-water crypts, particularly under mobile rubble, physical disturbance may be the most important mechanism by which community diversity is maintained. In deeper-water crypts, and in some well-protected shallow water crypts, diversity may be determined mostly by predation and competitive networking. There is a relationship between the depth of the entrance to a cavity and its size that governs the difference between the spectral composition of light entering the cavity and the spectral composition of light that reaches the furthest recesses. The thickness of water filling large cavities makes the irradiance and spectral conditions within the cavity mimic those of much deeper-water exposed benthic environments. This may help explain why on a broad scale, cryptobiontic communities often resemble communities found in exposed deeper-water benthic habitats receiving the equivalent irradiance levels and spectral composition. An important implication of this is that deep-water surface-dwelling organism groups may be capable of inhabiting very shallow water environments by exploiting cryptic habitats. The recognition of the partitioning of modern reefs into open-surface (non-cryptic) and cryptic realms at any given water depth has important implications for the interpretation of community structure in ancient reefs and for confidence levels to be applied in the use of generalized reef models based upon organism distribution. If cryptobiontic assemblages reflect, at least in part, deeper-water surface-dwelling communities, then there is a need to separate cryptobiontic from non-cryptobiontic assemblages in studies of ancient reef systems. The current paucity of reports of ancient reef cryptobionts appears to be the result of their having been overlooked or included inadvertently within surface-dwelling assemblages, rather than their absence or rarity in ancient reefs. This creates an impression that cryptobionts were rare in ancient reef systems, especially in the middle and early Paleozoic. There is evidence, however, that cryptobionts were significant in early reefs and mounds, and that they were a part of the total reef biota for as long as there have been skeletal reefs and mounds.
10.2307/3514853|The degree of shell fragmentation can be affected by post-collection taphonomic processes. Robust shells of the venerid bivalve Chione (Chionista) fluctifraga suffered no damage during vehicle transport, while from 3 to 15% of the fragile shells of the mytilid bivalve Mytella guayanensis were broken. More breakage occurred in the Mytella sample stored in the bottom of the shipping box than occurred in the sample stored on the top. The use of fragmentation as a taphonomic indicator requires careful post-collection treatment of samples. This paper elucidates the obvious.
10.2307/3515629|Drilling predation presents a rare opportunity to quantify ecological interactions in the fossil record. Most large-scale studies have focused on temporal rather than spatial patterns. However, spatial variability patterns may both mask secular trends and provide important insights into geographic and environmental gradients in predation. To explore spatial patterns in predation, bulk samples of mollusks were collected from middle Miocene (Burdigalian and Langhian) marine deposits of Europe, including multiple sites from two adjacent bioprovinces: the Boreal Province and Paratethys. Two facies were sampled: fine-grained and coarse-grained siliciclastics. The sampling scheme allows for a comparison of drilling predation at the local scale (within provinces), regional scale (between provinces), and between facies (within and between provinces). In the Miocene of Europe, statistically significant spatial variations in drilling-predation patterns occur locally, regionally, and among facies (these variations can be either masked or exaggerated when the samples are pooled into coarser analytical groupings). Regardless of the taxonomic resolution of the analysis, inter-regional and facies variation between samples is significant and on occasions exceeds 20%. The sample-level pattern of variation in drilling intensity is notably consistent for pooled data and for each mollusk class, but major differences exist at finer taxonomic scales of families and genera. Escalation parameters (proportion of failed and multiple predatory attacks) also vary significantly between the provinces. In contrast, drill-hole size and site distributions display remarkably consistent patterns across samples regardless of the region, environment, composition of potential prey and predator, observed drilling intensity, and levels of escalation parameters. This suggests that stereotypy in predatory behavior can be displayed by higher taxa and may be independent of the environment, geography, and prey type. The dramatic differences between intensity patterns and stereotypy patterns indicate that the scale and nature of spatial variability may vary notably among different predation parameters. Thus, whereas behavioral stereotypy appears to be stable, the drilling intensity and escalation parameters display variability levels that are comparable to the temporal variations observed among samples collected over evolutionary time scales. The spatial variation in the fossil record of all relevant predation parameters should be evaluated independently, and controlled for, before any large-scale temporal trends are inferred.
10.2307/3514761|Late Pleistocene deep-water coral mounds of 10-15 m relief occur in a 20 km linear zone parallel to the 500 m isobath along the West Florida carbonate-ramp slope. These relict mounds were constructed by the densely calcified, ahermatypic framework builder, Lophelia prolifera, and provided habitats for a host of associated invertebrates, including epizoans, epifaunal commensal organisms, nestlers and crevice dwellers, and macroendoliths. Scleractinian diversity and taxonomic composition are congruent with those of other Lophelia buildups in the North Atlantic, particularly buildups in the eastern Atlantic. The scleractinians also retain primary mineralogic, isotopic, and trace-element geochemical signatures, indicating relatively little diagenetic alteration, despite "dead" (>40,000 years b.p.) radiocarbon ages. The small but rapidly expanding global data base on deep-water coral mounds has magnified two key questions concerning the ecologic and environmental controls on mound nucleation, growth, and death. First, what are the principal ecologie controls on dominance within communities of deep-water framework builders? Second, why are there so many relict and so few living deep-water mounds in the modern ocean? Ecological and paleoecological investigation of these questions would elucidate much about the dynamics of deep-water mound growth.
10.2307/3514660|Fish predation or cropping of foraminifera is widespread on coral reefs. At Eniwetok Atoll, live foraminifera are taken by herbivorous grazers that crop close to the substrate, occasionally by browsers nipping higher parts of algae, scrapers like parrot fish, and omnivores feeding on algal turfs. Carnivorous fishes do not take foraminifera, except for fossorial feeders that ingest mostly detrital tests. Planktivores take foraminifera, both oceanic planktonic species and the floating stages of certain benthic species. These feeding activities have taphonomic and evolutionary consequences on foraminifera. Fishes may damage foraminiferal tests, by chipping, gouging or scratching the tests, or they may destroy the tests altogether by dissolution or crushing. The damage could be observable in the fossil record. It may also result in the elimination of some foraminifera from the fossil record of reefs, in part by later diagenesis of weakened tests. Fishes also transport foraminifera from their life habitats to other unsuitable habitats where they may die. Foraminifera have life histories and ecologic and morphologic strategies that decrease chances of individual and population mortality. These include rapid growth and reproduction in commonly cropped habitats, regeneration of damaged tests, and various protective or defensive test morphologies. Foraminifera also occupy habitats avoided by fishes, cryptic habitats, tidepools that exclude fish, and complex habitats where fish predation is ineffectual. The impacts of foraminiferal predators/croppers may be evident in the evolutionary record of fossil foraminifera. Furthermore, the taphonomic processes initiated by the feeding activities may well bias the fossil record such that paleoenvironmental interpretation and correlation are difficult or, worse, erroneous.
10.2307/3514852|The Middle Proterozoic Charmuria limestone belonging to the Chattisgarh Group in Madhya Pradesh, India exhibits numerous bioturbation structures (approximately 200 burrows from 62 thin sections). Based on their shape, internal architecture, and their relationship to the host rock the burrows resemble a number of ichnogenera: Skolithos, Monocraterion/Rhizocorallium and Polybessurus. The other structures are considered problematica. The burrows are of microscopic (length: 1-3 mm and width: 0.09-0.8 mm) dimensions and are obtained from generally black well bedded, fine grained, pyritiferous limestone, deposited in a dysaerobic lagoonal carbonate mud environment. Similar but larger burrows were reported earlier from current-dominated rocky and sandy coasts (Frey, 1975; Crimes, 1975; Rhoads, 1970; and Chakraborti, 1990).
40606451|The predominantly unknown nature and magnitude of the total taphonomic biasing that affects fossil assemblages commonly limits the testing of paleoecological hypotheses by the quantitative comparison of fossil assemblages. Multiple regression analyses of a suite of taphonomic characteristics against a measure of the total taphonomic biasing of a fossil assemblage can be used to generate a taphonomic model that identifies and quantifies many of those taphonomic processes that are important in biasing fossil assemblages. By examining the parameters of regression-based quantitative taphonomic models, key elements of the taphonomic history of a fossil assemblage can be reconstructed and such histories compared between fossil assemblages. We discuss the methodology pertinent to the building of quantitative taphonomic models and illustrate the effectiveness of such an approach using a case study considering two samples (857 specimens) of an Oligocene mammalian fossil assemblage from the Scenic Member of the Brul Formation, South Dakota. It is possible to quantify all of the taphonomic biasing affecting bone abundances in each of the two sampled assemblages using a small number of taphonomic characteristics. The most important of these characteristics is bulk density. The control of biasing by density is attributed to a combination of the increased resistance to physical damage of dense bones as well as the decreased probability of transport. Element shape and surface area to volume ratio are shown to have a significant but lesser control on assemblage biasing. Comparison of the taphonomic models for each sampled assemblage using currently viable methods demonstrates that the two assemblages are not statistically isotaphonomic. This interpretation may change with the gathering of additional data.
10.2307/3515291|The composition and distribution of the total foraminiferal assemblages across a carbonate shelf are closely tied to shelf topography, fair-weather sedimentary processes, and seasonal storms. On Grand Cayman, foraminifera form up to 30% of the sand on the shelf Analyses of these faunas show that the windward shelf is characterized by four well-defined foraminiferal assemblages that are commonly distinguished by unique species. In contrast, the open leeward shelf is characterized by two foraminiferal assemblages that are delineated by slight differences in the abundances of certain species, not by the presence of unique species. The windward shelf, with its well-defined lagoon, prominent reef crest, and terraced forereef zones, provides a wide variety of ecological niches that are inhabited by a diverse array of foraminifera. In addition, the fringing reef generally impedes the exchange of sediments between the fore- and back-reef areas under fair-weather conditions. Only the strongest storms or hurricanes can move sediment over the reef crest. As a result, the foraminiferal assemblages tend to retain their distinctive character. This is especially true over recent decades because Grand Cayman has suffered few hurricanes. The leeward shelf is usually characterized by calm waters and little sediment movement except for the very shallow nearshore zone. Nevertheless, the "Nor-wester" gales, which sweep across the shelf in winter, are not impeded by offshore reefs. Consequently, storm-generated waves can easily move the sands back-and-forth across the shelf. This storm-mixing process homogenizes the sediments, along with the foraminifera that they contain, on an annual basis.
27670464|Oxygen and carbon isotope ratios were measured on belemnites, planktonic foraminifera, and benthic foraminifera collected from Late Cretaceous sediments on Seymour Island, Antarctic Peninsula, to compare the relative depth habitats of these organisms and to provide insight on temperature seasonality at high southern latitudes near the end of the Cretaceous. Average 18O and 13C values of the belemnite Dimitobelus seymouriensis overlap with those of benthic foraminifera; these values are significantly different (p < 0.01) from isotopic compositions recorded by planktonic foraminifera. This comparison shows that D. seymouriensis likely inhabited waters below the surface summer mixed layer of the outer shelf. These results suggest that average 18O of D. seymouriensis is a good indicator of intermediate-to-deep-shelf water conditions, which in this locality is a good approximation for pelagic water temperatures in the Southern Ocean. Measurements of 18O on high-resolution samples across belemnite growth bands indicate that annual temperature variability of sub-mixed-layer neritic water along the Antarctic coastline was 5C on average with a mean annual temperature of 6C.
10.2307/3515512|Coral-rich strata of the Leitha Limestone of Badenian age (Middle Miocene) at the type-locality in Grosshoeflein (Burgenland province, Austria) were re-interpreted from an actualistic viewpoint in comparison with Recent Bahamian and Arabian Gulf coral communities. The investigated outcrop (quarry "Fenk") is interpreted as a sequence of frame-building coral carpets and non-framebuilding biostromal coral communities, alternating with bryozoan and corallinacean calcarenites and bivalve beds. No indication for the presence of a reef was found. In total, a sequence of 10 coral intervals was observed, which can be grouped into 2 coral carpet types (high carpet framework, low bushy framework), four non-framework communities, and one bivalve/coral community. Within this sequence, no unequivocal indication for sea-level changes at the time of deposition was apparent. The different coral facies are interpreted as having been deposited within roughly the same water depth as Recent coral systems observed in the Bahamas (Andros, Exuma Cays) and the Arabian Gulf (Dubai, UAE). According to the model presented, the facies merely represent different lateral positions within the same spatially highly complex environment. A distribution map of benthic biota in the Arabian Gulf (Jebel Ali, Dubai, UAE) was used to illustrate the likely lateral distribution of the Miocene facies.
3515780|Thousands of aggregating Archaeocidaris echinoids, many with Crurithyris planoconvexa brachiopods and fenestellid and encrusting bryozoan epibionts on their spines, occur in a Pennsylvanian (Missourian) echinoderm Lagersttte in the Winchell Formation of north-central Texas. This occurrence documents the earliest recorded case of epibionts on echinoids, including usually unpreserved epibionts repeatedly attached to echinoid hosts. Additionally, this occurrence provides further insight into deep-time biotic interactions between mobile hosts and their attaching organisms. All epibionts are preferentially distributed on the test-proximal ends of the spines. In a contemporaneous sample, no significant size differences are noted between echinoids with and those without epibionts. Epibiont distribution on the spines may occur from one or a combination of causes: antifouling behavior of the echinoid, accidental mechanical removal of epibionts via abrasion, or larval preference in settling. Crurithyris planoconvexa size ranges agree with previous studies of other attached brachiopod size distributions. The echinoid-epibiont association commensal relationship appears to have benefited the epibionts by means of associational defense, transportation benefits, increased water-current and food-gathering possibilities, open habitat for colonization, and decreased competition with other epibionts. Conversely, costs for the epibionts would have included potential mortality from echinoid predators and transport into unfavorable environments. For the echinoids in this association, costs, such as increased drag on spines and exposure to epibiont grazers, far outweighed the benefits (e.g., potential camouflage effects), although both likely were minimal.
27670549|SHE analysis for biozone identification (SHEBI) is a new technique that identifies abundance biozones (ABs) by accumulating species abundance data along a time series, recalculating species richness (S), the information function (H), and the equitability index (E) with the addition of each sample. Boundaries are drawn between ABs where SHE analysis detects a change in either (1) the population structure or (2) the assemblage's species composition, species having joined or left the community in quantities that affect the evenness of the distribution of species abundances. This study uses foraminiferal data from two Miocene sections on Trinidad (Cipero Formation, Catapsydrax stainforthi Zone; San Jos Calcareous Silt, Globorotalia acostaensis Zone) to test if top-downward or bottom-upward analyses indicate the same AB boundaries. The results differ. In the Cipero there are no matches between AB boundaries determined by bottom-up and top-down SHEBIs. In the San Jos Calcareous Silt, only some boundaries match. It is recommended that SHEBI proceed in the order in which the samples in the ABs were deposited, treating the ABs as successive ecostratigraphic units. Intriguingly, no matter whether ABs were determined by bottom-up and top-down SHEBIs, SHE community structure investigations indicated logarithmic series population structures. A graphical technique for determining the species responsible for the change in ABs reveals that a peak in the per sample percentage abundance of Nuttallides umbonifera in the Cipero Formation is offset by one sample from the AB boundaries it engendered, marking a temporary decrease in nutrient flux.
10.2307/3514882|The death assemblage is the raw material for the fossil record; however, few studies have quantitatively sampled the accumulating remains of dead organisms from living communities. This is especially true of open coast high energy environments. I compared four subtidal death assemblages from two habitats, with four adjacent fossil assemblages on San Nicolas Island, California. All fossil assemblages were sampled from the second emergent marine terrace that is correlated with substage 5e of the marine oxygen isotope record (~ 120,000 years ago). The death assemblages represent two distinct communities that are found in sandy beach, and rocky shore, environments. Death assemblages were found accumulating throughout the rocky shore habitat, whereas sandy bottom death assemblages were only found in localized sediment traps adjacent to sandstone benches or boulders. There were 64 species recovered from the fossil assemblages, 68 from the death assemblages, and 39 species were common to both. A comparison between the Pleistocene fossil assemblages and modern death assemblages reveals that habitat or substratum type can be inferred from relative abundance measures of the species present.
10.2307/3515503|The designation "thrombolite" was proposed by Aitken for "cryptalgal structures related to stromatolites, but lacking lamination and characterized by a macroscopic clotted fabric." In that same paper, he referred to the characteristic mesostructural elements as clots. Since publication of that paper, there have been several attempts at redefinition that have further complicated our understanding of, and communication about, thrombolites. A distinction must be made between the thrombolite column and the mesostructural clots (mesoclots) that comprise it. Poorly preserved thrombolite columns have only vague mesoclots recognizable, thus leading to confusion. This is particularly true if the columns, themselves, are complex and comprise larger thrombolite bioherms or biostromes. Mesoclots are generally polymorphic mm- to cm-sized objects whereas columns, which may also be polymorphic, are one to several orders of magnitude larger. In order for there to be clear communication among microbialite paleontologists and sedimentologists, a standard guideline for mega-, macro-, meso-, and microstructural studies of thrombolites should be followed.
10.2307/3514606|Pedicle valves greatly outnumber brachial valves in disarticulated samples of the Upper Ordovician brachiopod Platystrophia ponderosa. Some articulated specimens are compressed (shortened), probably by burial and compaction. The shortening is accommodated by fracturing, which is largely confined to the brachial valve. This preferential fracturing of the brachial valve can account for the observed paucity of whole brachial valves of P. ponderosa in the fossil record, and suggests that mechanisms other than differential current transport contribute to valve disproportionation. Discriminating between autochthonous and transported assemblages on the basis of valve ratios may lead to erroneous paleoecological interpretations, because brachial valves could be destroyed preferentially, without significant transport to the burial site.
10.2307/3515223|Principal components analysis and subsequent discriminant function analysis helped interpret environments of some fish deposits in the Eocene Green River Formation of Utah and Wyoming. The analysis related 61 environmental variables to differing qualities of fish preservation in 45 fish deposits. It greatly facilitated a Waltherian or "guilt by association" type of facies analysis and it also served to counteract observational biases and preconceptions. Analysis indicates that completely preserved fishes are especially associated with 1) environments that can also preserve fish coprolites, 2) environments, probably deep, that exclude scavengers and physical disturbances, and 3) abiotic mudflats with episodic inundations and rapid burial.
10.2307/3515219|Heliolitine corals occur in the Ludlow-age Douro Formation on Somerset and neighboring islands. The corals occur in argillaceous carbonate rocks deposited on a regionally extensive ramp. Contemporaneous coral assemblages from different areas show marked differences in community characteristics that reflect a range of paleoenvironments, some more suited and others less suited to the heliolitines. Some of the paleoenvironmental differences are implied more strongly by the coral assemblages than by regionally subdued variations in enclosing carbonate facies. Optimal conditions for heliolitine corals in the region were apparently in a "mid-ramp" position, as suggested by numerically abundant, diverse, low-dominance species assemblages, with a greater proportion of flat-based and discoid colonies. These grew more rapidly and to larger sizes, had greater longevity, and show less growth interference from sedimentation than contemporaneous assemblages elsewhere in the formation. Variations in growth form in different species suggest differences in the relative importance of inheritance and environment as controls.
27670607|Biological and physical factors govern the distribution of fossils, but it is not always clear which is more important. The preservation of late Eocene vertebrates at the UNESCO World Heritage site of Wadi Al-Hitan, Western Desert of Egypt, is controlled primarily by the physical processes responsible for sequence stratigraphic architecture on a siliciclastic shelf. Three types of stratigraphic surface, each characterized by a taxonomically and taphonomically distinct fossil assemblage, yield most of the known vertebrate fossils. Complete, partially articulated whale skeletons, primarily Basilosaurus isis, are abundant in offshore marine flooding surfaces (MFS) in the late transgressive systems tract (TST) of the first Priabonian sequence (TA4.1), where low net sedimentation rates and environmental averaging in offshore environments promoted the accumulation of carcasses on traceable stratigraphic surfaces. Complete, well-articulated whales, primarily Dorudon atrox, are more widely scattered on minor erosion surfaces in rapidly accumulating shoreface sediments of the overlying falling stage systems tract. Fragmented and abraded vertebrate remains are abundant and diverse in a discontinuous conglomerate that marks the first sequence boundary above the base of the Priabonian (Pr-2), which has not been previously recognized in Egypt, but which formed incised valleys with at least 45 m of total relief. Fossils in this variably thick lag conglomerate include skeletal elements reworked by rivers from underlying marine deposits and bones of terrestrial animals living in the fluvial environment. Marginal marine vertebrates, primarily dugongs, occur on shelly marine ravinement surfaces above Pr-2, in the early TST of the second Priabonian sequence. Most vertebrate remains in Wadi Al-Hitan occur in condensed stratigraphic intervals and taxonomic composition changes with sequence position, both important considerations in interpretation of paleobiological patterns.
10.2307/3515323|Exceptionally neomorphosed bivalves from a range of Jurassic sediments from England and North Ireland have been discovered to bear neat, circular, straight-sided boreholes over a millimeter in diameter. These boreholes appear to have been predatory in origin and are highly reminiscent of those produced by muricid gastropods. Although none of the known gastropod borers have stratigraphic ranges that extend into the Jurassic, it seems likely that other taxa, perhaps other gastropods, also possessed the ability to feed in this manner, thus extending the record of this type of predation by at least 90 million years. The frequency of boreholes recorded in Liassic bivalves from Blockley is as great as has been recorded in Tertiary and Recent malacofaunas that are assailed by predatory gastropods, thus indicating that these unknown predators were capable of exerting a substantial selection pressure on their prey. Recognition of Mesozoic predatory boreholes occurs only where shell preservation is particularly good. More usual moldic and castic preservation is incapable of recording borehole morphology and, thus, the presence of boreholes is overlooked in most faunas of this age. Consequently, the timing of the onset of this type of predation may be underestimated. The boreholes described in this paper probably do not represent the actions of the very earliest large, gastropod-like predators but they do have implications for further studies that seek to document the appearance of adaptations in prey taxa in response to this threat, and also indicate that taphonomy may affect evolutionary interpretations.
3515694|In this contribution theoretical morphospace techniques are demonstrated to be particularly useful in the analysis of ecomorphologic variation; that is, the detection of repetitive morphologies that consistently reoccur in similar environments. Although at least six distinct species of Archimedes occurred in the mid-Carboniferous shallow seas of North America, the distribution of a sample of 116 of their helical colony morphologies within theoretical morphospace forms two clouds of points that correspond to two paleoenvironmental settings: basinal versus back-shoal. It is argued that the distribution of the two Archimedes ecomorphologic colony types in morphospace is a function of the vertical extent of the quiet-water zone above the sea floor in back-shoal versus basinal environments, and not of differences in colony-type feeding efficiencies. It also is argued that the observed tendency of back-shoal colonies to form geographically distinct morphologic populations in morphospace is a function of their clonal mode of reproduction, in contrast to the more commonly sexually-reproducing basinal colonies. Theoretical morphospace analyses also can reveal species that do not show ecomorphologic variation in colony form. The unusual species Archimedes laxus, which occurs in both basinal and back-shoal environments, occupies its own unique position within the theoretical morphospace, a position that is displaced from and does not overlap the regions of morphospace occupied by other colonies, either basinal or back-shoal. Consideration of the unique aspects of this species' morphology leads to the suggestion that A. laxus may have had a rapid growth, weed-like mode of life that was quite different from typical Archimedes colonies.
10.2307/3514809| Lower greenschist facies dark gray argillite of the Middle Proterozoic Libby Formation in northwestern Montana contains a low abundance and low diversity acritarch microbiota. Four morphological types of acritarchs have been detected: 1) Small (8 to 32 m in diameter) spherical types (leiomorphs) are represented by four categories based on size, wall configuration, and spatial arrangement of cells; 2) large (up to 150 m maximum diameter) ovoidal, thick-walled, dense types with granular surf aces; 3) fusiform types; and 4) an odd, torus-shaped type. Most of the acritarchs average between 10 and 40 m in diameter. These microfossils are significant for several reasons: 1) They occur in low-grade metamorphic sedimentary rocks. Normally, it is expected that such metamorphism will destroy organic-walled microfossils. 2) The Libby microfossils augment our understanding of Middle Proterozoic microbial assemblages in western North America where only a few other localities of this age are known. 3) Taphonomic considerations aside, the low abundance and diversity of this microbiota may be a function of either its age and/or environment in which the organisms lived. 4) The Libby microbiota appears to be slightly more diverse than sphaeromorph acritarch assemblages from unmetamorphosed lower Belt Supergroup strata in the eastern Belt basin. This suggests one of two things: a) The Libby acritarchs inhabited a more open marine environment than those from older strata in the east, or b) a paleobiologically significant amount of time separates the two biotas from the lower and upper Belt, such that by Libby time, sphaeromorph acritarchs had diversified somewhat. 5) The acritarchs resemble other Middle Proterozoic spheroidal acritarch assemblages. However, no biostratigraphically diagnostic taxa that might help clarify controversial upper Belt ages have been discovered in these samples. This might be a function of taphonomy, metamorphism, and age of the strata as well as the fact that morphologically distinctive, relatively short-lived species are not common among Middle Proterozoic acritarch taxa. We emphasize that, although it is desirable to search for remains of Proterozoic life in unmetamorphosed rocks, less attractive lithologies should not be ignored. Weakly metamorphosed strata can provide additional sources of paleontological information. 
10.2307/3515230|Approximately three decades ago, Helen Tappan began a series of classic papers on the interaction of the marine and terrestrial realms, and their influence on nutrient input to the oceans, marine productivity, and plankton evolution and extinction. Unfortunately, many of her assertions conflicted with the fossil record, and her papers have been treated in recent accounts as being largely of historical interest only. Based on recent <sup>13</sup>C, lithologic, and paleontologic evidence (including a reinterpretation of plankton diversity patterns), I reassess the role of nutrients and productivity in the evolution of the biosphere through the Phanerozoic. Cambrian-to-Devonian seas were characterized by extremely low nutrient ("superoligotrophic") conditions. By the Permo-Carboniferous, nutrient levels and marine productivity had increased toward intermediate ("submesotrophic") concentrations via glaciation, sea level fall, and enhanced deep-ocean overturn and continental weathering. Following end-Permian extinctions, bioturbation rates increased above Paleozoic levels, thereby recycling nutrients back to surface waters (fully "mesotrophic" conditions) and enhancing marine productivity as pelagic habitats expanded (via sea level rise). Increased rates of ocean circulation, continental erosion, and bioturbation further heightened nutrient levels ("eutrophic" conditions) and productivity in the Neogene. Rising nutrient levels and marine productivity may have fueled a secular increase in marine biomass and diversity, and the accompanying decline in background extinction rates, through the Phanerozoic.
10.2307/3515145|The preservation potential of a brachiopod shell is in part determined by the post-mortem loss in its mechanical resilience to physical destruction. The loss of mechanical resistance, whether due to the decay of the shell's organic matrix or other processes, can be observed using engineering testing techniques. Tests at various post-mortem intervals on evacuated shells of a population of the extant eastern Pacific terebratulid brachiopod from the San Juan Islands, Terebratalia transversa, revealed that a measurable decrease in preservation potential had occurred. This decrease is demonstrated by the loss of structural integrity of both the hinging mechanism in articulated specimens, and of the shell walls of the individual valves. For the hinging mechanism, this loss in preservation was evidenced by an increase in the gape angle of the hinge at failure at greater post-mortem intervals when the hinge was disarticulated by forcing the valves open. The loss of structural integrity of the disarticulated valves was demonstrated by a tendency to fracture under compressive forces into a greater number of fragments for the same input of work at longer, but still relatively brief, post-mortem intervals. The less massive, less convex brachial valves fractured into a greater number of fragments at a lower input of energy than the more robust and convex pedicle valves, implying a natural preservational bias of pedicle over brachial valves for T. transversa in compression.
27670553|Vertical changes in distribution, abundance, and ichnodiversity of ichnocoenoses in alluvial deposits of the Willwood Formation suggest significantly drier moisture regimes in the Bighorn Basin, Wyoming, during the PaleoceneEocene Thermal Maximum (PETM), a transient period of global warming. The Willwood Formation at Polecat Bench contains an abundant assemblage of ichnofossils, including various types of rhizoliths and invertebrate trace fossils, such as Naktodemasis bowni, Camborygma litonomos, Edaphichnium lumbricatum, cf. Cylindricum isp., cf. Planolites isp., cf. Steinichnus, and cocoon traces. These comprise six distinct ichnocoenoses, which are categorized as dominantly terraphilic, hygrophilic, or hydrophilic based on the inferred moisture regimes of their most abundant ichnofossil morphotypes and associated pedogenic features, including other trace fossils and rhizoliths. The interpreted moisture regimes correlate well with the paleoenvironments of their host lithofacies, as inferred from sedimentology and paleopedology. Outside the PETM interval at Polecat Bench, abundant avulsion deposits and thin, compound paleosols containing hygrophilic and hydrophilic ichnocoenoses suggest frequent depositional events and predominantly poor to imperfect soil-drainage conditions. Within the PETM interval, thick, cumulative paleosol profiles with abundant terraphilic to hygrophilic ichnocoenoses suggest significantly improved drainage conditions. Lithofacies and ichnocoenoses above the PETM interval are not significantly different from those below the interval, indicating a return to pre-PETM moisture regimes. These conclusions support previous studies that suggest the Bighorn Basin experienced transient drying during this interval. This study demonstrates that ichnocoenoses and their ichnopedologic associations can be used to refine paleohydrologic and paleoclimatic generalizations inferred from paleoclimate models.
27670469|Intricate morphology, combined with relatively soft and soluble calcite mineralogy, make foraminifera tests sensitive indicators of grain abrasion during transport in beach and coastal dune systems. Here, the extent of abrasion and dissolution of foraminifera tests is used to elucidate the relative ages and transport paths of sand from the Sixteen Mile Beach and 24-km-long Yzerfontein-Geelbek Holocene dune cordon on the west coast of southern Africa, located 80 km north of Cape Town. Foraminifera tests collected in rocky pools along the beach are well preserved with complete or nearly complete tests. Foraminifera tests recovered from adjacent beach sands show incipient signs of abrasion and are fragmented moderately and abraded from transport along the shoreface. Wind-blown foraminifera tests along the Yzerfontein-Geelbek active dune cordon show increasing signs of abrasion, corroded surfaces, and partly dissolved walls up to 18 km from the beach source. Between 18 km and 24 km from the beach source, most biogenic calcareous grainsshell fragments and foraminifera testsin dune sand with an estimated maximum age of 4,500 years have been destroyed by physical and chemical weathering.
20172964|Phosphatized animals and animal embryos of the Neoproterozoic Doushantuo Formation of Southwest China provide what is likely the earliest fossil evidence for animals, including bilaterians. This research utilizes field and petrographic analyses of the animal-fossil-bearing interval of the Doushantuo Formation and general observations of animal and animal-embryo preservation in order to gain insight into the taphonomic processes involved in the preservation of these fossils. Results indicate that there are two genetically related phosphatic lithofacies within the animal- and animal-embryo-bearing Weng'an Phosphorite Member: a lower black facies and an upper gray facies. Within each of these facies, phosphogenesis and phosphatization took place under different environmental conditions. The black facies is a pyrite-rich bituminous phosphorite that lacks dolomite in its lowermost two meters and contains evidence for lower levels of reworking than the gray facies. Deposited on top of a karstic sequence boundary, the black facies is interpreted as a condensed, sediment-starved deposit that shallows upward into the higher-energy gray facies. Abundant matrix-forming dolomite and greater levels of reworking characterize the gray facies. Both facies were deposited in shallow, nearshore-marine environments. The environmental differences between these two members are of great taphonomic importance because of the resulting difference in reworking levels. Lower levels of reworking in the black facies indicate the presence of a larger taphonomic window in this member because fewer phosphatized fossils were destroyed during reworking. The search for future significant Doushantuo fossils should focus on this black facies.
10.2307/3514620|The relative contribution of predation to the fossil record is usually difficult to determine because of the multitude of possible causes of death and because of overprinting of the evidence by post-mortem disturbances. Small lakes offer important advantages because, in these relatively simple systems, there are fewer potential predators. As well, in the fossil record of fish, predation can be recognized primarily by identification of coprolites, and coprolites are more easily identified in the relatively undisturbed sediments that are common in lakes. Criteria for identification of coprolites include: similarity to gut contents in place, distinctive shape, and brown, amorphous matrix. Aggregations of fish bones that have either passed through a predator's gut or been regurgitated differ from scavenged carcasses and from fragments of floated carcasses by packing and arrangement of bones, by inclusion of multiple prey individuals, and by presence of dissolved and broken bones. Birds are likely predators because the feces of fish seldom contain recognizable bones, but gastric residues (pellets) of predaceious birds commonly do. Moreover, in small modern lakes at least, birds eat about as many fish as do other fish. In 25 Eocene assemblages, up to 69% of fish remains consist of presumed fossil pellets, but on the average they are less common than either articulated fish, isolated bones, or scales. Pellets with recognizable bones are seldom abundant in deepwater assemblages where articulated skeletons of larger fish are common, but are more often found together with numerous disarticulated fish bones in shallow-water assemblages, where fish are mostly smaller, and both decay and scavengers more prevalent
10.2307/3514528|The Triassic to Jurassic records the transition from late Paleozoic to Mesozoic reef communities and can be regarded as the "modernization" of reefs. This 60-million-year interval was especially crucial for the restructuring of reefs. Mass extinctions and evolutionary innovations profoundly affected the composition and paleoecologic structure, resulting in especially the loss of Permian-type holdovers and the rise of large skeletal organisms in the framework building guild, which in turn resulted in major changes in the early Mesozoic reef ecosystem. Rather than a single step, the evolution of these reefs is viewed as a three-step process-steps in which mass extinction events exerted major influences. The first step took place following the Permo-Triassic extinction, and began with a protracted nonreef interval, represented by the Early Triassic (Scythian stage). When conditions on shallow shelves improved in Middle Triassic time it once again permitted warm-water carbonate deposition to occur. Survivors of the Permian reefs then returned to establish essentially Permian-type reef communities in the Anisian and Ladinian stages of the Middle Triassic. These "holdover" communities, dominated by Tubiphytes, calcisponges, bryozoans, and calcareous algae, were long-lived, lasting some 17 million years. In the second step, the ecologic structure and dominance of reef ecosystems were changed by a late Triassic (Karnian) reorganization event. This was due to a smaller scale mass extinction event followed by rapid turnover of the reef faunas. The succeeding Late Triassic (Norian) reef ecosystem was longer lived (19-27 million years' duration). It culminated in the latest Triassic when high-growing scleractinian corals in reefs of the Tethys region increased dramatically in importance. They eventually became significant on the reef crest, contributing substantial framework, thus allowing for scleractinians the first approach to organic framework-produced reef rims. It is argued that the importance of corals in the latest Triassic arose from a subtle ecologic event: the onset of coral-zooxanthellae symbiosis. Following this innovation, a third extinction, the end-Triassic event, once again decimated corals and reefs. After another hiatus in reefs during the Early Jurassic (Hettangian-Early Sinemurian stages) lasting 4-10 million years, the third step in the evolution of reefs began in the early Jurassic (Pliensbachian Stage) when carbonate deposition resumed. By the Middle Jurassic, coral-algal-dominated framework communities once again thrived and most Permo-Triassic holdovers were gone. Reef activity primarily centered in the tropical to subtropical Tethys seaway, where diverse communities flourished within different paleogeographic settings. It was there in the relatively uniform, warm-water settings that coral-algal symbiosis most likely began. Other regions of reef community development, at near-tropical latitudes in the ancestral Pacific (Panthalassa Ocean), existed on volcanic seamounts and subsea plateaus as well as fringing volcanic islands. Such oceanic settings may have served as refugia during times when environmental perturbations adversely affected the Tethys. Moved by seafloor spreading over time, the organisms inhabiting such oceanic settings may have traveled far, experiencing various degrees of isolation. Displaced terranes now lodged along the Pacific Rim contain the remains of these reef communities. Their detailed paleontologic study is helping explain and reconstruct evolution and paleobiogeography before the opening of the Atlantic-Pacific marine corridor in Middle Jurassic time, which resulted in free faunal exchange between the Tethys and the eastern Pacific.
10.2307/3515034|Live (biocoenoses) and dead (taphocoenoses) populations of regular and irregular echinoids inhabiting shallow water environments of San Salvador and Leestocking Island, Bahamas (and elsewhere in the Caribbean) have been censused over the last five years to test Kier's (1977) hypothesis that the relatively poor fossil record of the regular echinoid is the result of taphonomic bias. In general, results reveal that distributions of living regular echinoids are not reflected by accumulations of their carcasses, while the reverse is true for irregular taxa: subfossil material is more often associated with living populations suggesting that irregulars may have relatively greater likelihood of preservation. Population distributions of four regular echinoid taxa (Diadema antillarum, Eucidaris tribuloides, Echinometra lucunter and Tripneustes ventricosus) were systematically studied in reef and near-reef environments. Although these taxa are common components of the benthic fauna, the distributions of the biocoenoses were patchy. High abundance of living individuals (densities approaching 60/m<sup>2</sup>) of Echinometra was not correlated with an increase in subfossil material even though previous work has indicated the remarkable durability of the corona relative to other regular echinoid taxa. Tripneustes, Diadema and Eucidaris occurred in lower abundances than Echinometra and were associated with limited amounts of skeletal remains >2 mm in size. Shallow-burrowing irregular echinoids selected for study included two mellitid sand dollars (Mellita quinquies-perforata, Leodia sexiesperforata), and the spatangoid Meoma ventricosa. In contrast to the results obtained for regular echinoids, more subfossil material comprised the taphocoenoses, the majority of it occurring on the sediment surface: the latter observation suggests that the shallow infaunal life mode does not guarantee that biostratinomic processes will not affect skeletal material. Multivariate analyses of census data reveal that live echinoid distribution is likely related to substrate: the regular echinoids under study occurred on hard or rubbly substrates that inhibit burrowing, while the irregular echinoids occurred in soft substrates of clean carbonate sand. In Fernandez Bay, Echinometra and Tripneustes were most common closest to shore (between 0 m and 18 m from the shoreline), while Diadema and Eucidaris occurred farther out (between 28 m and 138 m). Mellita and Leodia occurred farthest from shore (between 46 m and 156 m). However, echinoid carcasses do not reflect the same pattern: regular taxa, though rare, are restricted to the same areas in which living counterparts occur. Conversely, the irregular echinoid taphocoenosis has undergone some transport: carcasses possess a wider distribution than their living counterparts. Results of this study suggest that Kier's (1977) hypothesis, while essentially correct, requires modification: 1) Skeletal durability may be more important than life habit in determining preservation potential; 2) Regular echinoid fragments, although rare in the fossil record, are useful tools for paleoenvironmental reconstruction based on the fidelity with which they reflect the distribution of a once-living fauna; 3) The poor fossil record of the regular echinoid may also be an artifact of taxonomic bias; finally, 4) As is the case with regular echinoids, exceptionally well-preserved assemblages of abundant mellitid and shallow-burrowing spatangoids must be viewed as the result of extrinsic processes rather than intrinsic traits. Analysis of Pleistocene analogues to the Recent environments studied generally corroborates these conclusions.
27670444|In the Ordovician bryozoan genus, Peronopora, stratigraphic occurrences and cladistic branching order are significantly correlated, indicating sequential development of both patterns in geological time. Five species have stratigraphic first appearances in the exact order predicted by cladistics, but eleven species require downward-range extensions to match cladistic order. Reduced major-axis regression-based corrections and ghost range extensions represent two alternative modifications of first appearance data, with the latter more strongly supported by stratigraphic congruence indices. Tests of the robustness of observed first appearances, based on the density of sampled horizons and magnitudes of stratigraphic gaps, support the probabilistic appearance of descendant species stratigraphically above their putative ancestors in eight of fifteen ancestor-descendant pairs. A 24 m sampling gap occurs below the base of the Brannon Member of the Lexington Limestone, a unit marking the first appearances, or extended ranges, of nine species of Peronopora. A test for the presence of a uniform distribution of occurrence probabilities indicates that seven of the nine species could have originated during the time interval represented by the gap. The early branching rate within Peronopora, during the time span encompassing all first appearances of species, is 1.05 cladogram nodes per meter of strata. The rate of clade production within that interval is 0.73 (baseline) clades per meter of strata. Extrapolating downward using both rates indicates that the median position of the root of the generic clade is approximately 1.08 myr earlier than sampled. The estimated speciation rate in Peronopora is 5.73 species per myr, while the average time between speciation events is 186 kyr. Intraspecific clades, possibly including cryptic species, formed at a rate of 19.35 clades per myr, with an average waiting time per clade of 48.107 kyr. These metrics indicate very short origin times for species within the genus compared to their total stratigraphic ranges, a pattern consistent with punctuated speciation.
10.2307/3514891|This paper discusses the results of taphonomic analyses of fossil insect assemblages from the Chihuahuan Desert. The approach included a comparison of the composition of fossil insect faunas to the modern regional faunas, and a preliminary analysis of living packrat diet preferences. As in other Quaternary insect fossil assemblages, hard-bodied (well-sclerotized) taxa, especially predatory and scavenging beetles, are dominant. Most insects preserved in packrat middens are apparently derived from the facultative inquiline fauna that spends part of each year in packrat dens. The ecological composition of fossil insect assemblages is skewed in comparison with the modern regional fauna, but the abundance and diversity of the fossil faunas is sufficient to allow paleoenvironmental reconstructions to be made. The strength of such reconstructions is greatly increased by the compilation of numerous regional studies.
10.2307/3514747|A regionally correlated biostratigraphic gradient divides the Kope Fm. (Late Ordovician, Indiana-Kentucky-Ohio) into twelve bryozoan concurrent range zones averaging 7.6 m in thickness. Stratigraphic (temporal) resolution has been enhanced by post-mortem lateral dispersal of bryozoans by storm processes. Abundance patterns reflect a bathymetric gradient in the original benthic communities. The presence and absence of short-ranging genera define a temporal gradient of faunal replacement within these communities. Both gradient analysis and graphic correlation indicate significant regional correlations between sections, and a robust biostratigraphic zonation. Gradient analysis also indicates regionally consistent variation in sedimentation rates and key horizons (isochrons) probably generated by taphonomic processes.
10.2307/3515381|Experiments were carried out on decay and early diagenetic mineralization in the stomatopod Neogonodactylus as a basis for the interpretation of fossil specimens of mantis shrimps. Neogonodactylus has a robust cuticle that is heavily mineralized in places in contrast to the decapods Crangon and Palaemon, which have been the subject of similar taphonomic experiments. Decay over 25 weeks resulted in a continuum of morphological stages: (1) swollen, due to osmotic uptake; (2) ruptured, as the exoskeleton split; and (3) partially decomposed, including weakening of the cuticle, decay of the soft-tissues, and disarticulation and fragmentation of the exosheleton. Two categories of mineralization occurred; the precipitation of crystal bundles of calcium carbonate, and the replacement of soft-tissue and cuticle in calcium phosphate. Calcium carbonate formed as: (1) crystal bundles of various shapes; (2) crusts on the outside of the cuticle; and (3) an amorphous crystalline mass within the cuticle. The amount of soft-tissue mineralized in calcium phosphate increased throughout the experiment. In the later stages the hepatopancreas was often completely mineralized. Muscle tissue was replaced to a lesser extent and mostly in small fragments. Nerve ganglia were occasionally mineralized. The degree of mineralization was much greater than in decapod shrimps, presumably reflecting the higher calcium content and relatively phosphorusrich cuticle of the stomatopod. The stages of morphological decay observed in these experiments can be identified in fossil stomatopods. SEM observations of fossil material have revealed phosphatized soft tissues similar to those found in the decaying carcasses. The experiments indicate that stomatopods have a relatively high fossilization potential. Their scarce and fragmentary fossil record must be a function of factors other than decay and degradation.
27670381|This Paper Provides an estimate of the temporal nature and environmental implications of bioturbation in upper-foreshore and backshore deposits resulting from the burrowing activity of talitrid amphipods at Waterside Beach, Bay of Fundy, Canada. Short-term preservation potential is assessed by comparing shore-normal variations in burrow morphologies and densities to grain-size distribution, and hydraulic and eolian processes. The intensity and distribution of burrowing is linked to depositional environment and provides a temporal framework for bioturbation indices in ancient upper-foreshore and backshore deposits. Bioturbation in foreshore and backshore successions provides a means for predicting short-term, autocyclic processes in the rock record, in that: (1) the initial occurrence of buttowing marks the transition from the foreshore to the backshore, and (2) the degree of bioturbation may be used to predict depositional rates and processes. At Waterside, bioturbation indices (BI) of two or less indicate a single season of colonization; BIs of two (upper end of range) and higher suggest multiple seasons of colonization. A high BI may indicate that the backshore environment was protected from wave reworking or erosion (particularly during storms) and / or was subjected to minor eolian sedimentation.
10.2307/3514735|The Jacksonian (Priabonian) of the southeastern United States has one of the richest echinoid faunas in the world, yet heretofore only the fauna of Florida has been adequately characterized biostratigraphically. We outline the stratigraphic distribution of Jacksonian echinoids in Georgia and compare it with the zonations used in Florida and other regions. Data come primarily from collections made in strata correlated lithostratigraphically and biostratigraphically, using micro-and macrofossils other than echinoids, with strata outside the state, particularly in peninsular Florida. Supplementary data from museum collections and published sources were subsequently added. Most species can be stratigraphically placed based upon these collections, and the pattern agrees with the distributions established in Florida. Conversely, we find support in these patterns for the use of oligopygoids in biozonation in Florida. Species not included in the primary collections were dominantly those of the upper Jacksonian Oligopygus wetherbyi zone. We recognize these species from few individuals in residuum, from a region of active solution of the Eocene carbonates. The middle assemblage zone in Georgia, correlative with the Oligopygus haldemani in Florida, has a much richer fauna, including more spatangoids, than its counterpart in Florida. The Georgia strata equivalent to the Oligopygus phelani zone of Florida have a fauna similar to, but with lower local diversity, than correlative rocks of Florida. Species from southeast Georgia, previously considered middle Eocene, are better treated as Jacksonian. Two species, tentatively identified herein, are known otherwise only from the Castle Hayne Limestone of the Carolinas, and support a Jacksonian age for those strata.
10.2307/3514600|The high sedimentation rates that occur in fjords make them an ideal setting for studying sediment transfer from proximal first cycle sources. These environments, and their associated sediment transport processes, are good analogues to some small hydrocarbon-bearing basins. Knight and Bute Inlets, on Canada's west coast, are fiords that display textural facies of recent sediments and distributions of benthonic foraminifera, thecamoebians and clay-size minerals that reflect freshwater discharge, bottom-water renewal and sediment gravity flow processes. In Knight and Bute, a fjord head prodelta mud facies shaped by fluvial depositional processes is defined by unimodal (5-60) sediments and by low-diversify arenaceous foraminifera assemblages that include a large proportion of displaced freshwater thecamoebian specimens. A comparatively distal basinal mud facies reflects a flocculation process that gives rise to a unimodal (80) sediment. The clay-size fraction of this basinal facies is enriched in quartz and feldspar compared to the prodelta mud. Arenaceous foraminifera predominate in upper and middle fjord basinal mud facies environments but are replaced by calcareous types near fjord mouths because of the seasonal incursion of marine water from the continental shelf. The prodelta mud and basinal mud facies interfinger with a gravity flow and overspill transition facies. The grain size distributions of the transition facies includes types having 1.50 or 4-60 modes that reflect a combination of fluvial, hemipelagic, and gravity flow processes. Channels cut by the downslope transport of coarse sediment as cohesionless mass flows "focus" deposition in distal basins. Inherent in this process is sediment bypassing and the passive transport of large numbers of thecamoebians to distal prodelta marine environments. Sediment on sills near the mouth of Knight and Bute Inlets are reworked morainal deposits facies that are presently being modified by tidal currents that also serve to concentrate indigenous calcareous foraminifera populations into foraminiferal lag deposits.
10.2307/3514942|Relatively small, lens-shaped carbonate mud bodies are common features in the Ramp Creek Formation and Harrodsburg Limestone (Mississippian) of southern Indiana and northern Kentucky. The outcrop dimensions of the lenses range from approximately 10 cm thick and 3 m wide to as much as 2 m thick and in excess of 100 m wide; their three-dimensional geometry is unknown. The lens cores consist of dolomitic mudstone that grades laterally and vertically into increasingly more fossiliferous wackestone to grainstone with fenestrate bryozoans and echinoderms being the dominant fossils. The great abundance of fenestrate bryozoan fragments surrounding the lenses suggests that lens evolution was controlled by the trapping of carbonate mud by the baffling action of bryozoans. Wisps of organic material preserved in the lens cores may be remnants of some form of non-calcareous algae that also baffled and trapped carbonate mud. The lenses built up as positive topographic features, but were eventually overwhelmed by coarsergrained sediment, as indicated by flanking beds thinning and pinching out over the crests of the lenses. These mud lenses are end members of a spectrum of Mississippian carbonate mud bodies ranging in size from these small lenses to the classical Waulsortian mounds that may be hundreds of meters thick and a kilometer or more broad. All of these carbonate mud bodies may have in part formed by baffling and localizing of carbonate mud by organisms and in part by local production of carbonate mud. The major difference between large and small bodies is the water depth in which each formed. The Ramp Creek-Harrodsburg mud lenses may be miniature Waulsortian mounds that developed at or above fair-weather wave base on a relatively shallow carbonate platform rather than on shelf-to-basin slopes as proposed for the classical Waulsortian mounds.
10.2307/3514605|Palaeoaplysina is a platy calcareous fossil of possible algal affinity that forms biostromes in the island arc-related Lower Permian McCloud Limestone of the Eastern Klamath Mountains, California. Biostromes of Palaeoaplysina include wackestone, packstone, and boundstone, appear up to 4 m thick and over 100 m long, and contain common phylloid and encrusting calcareous algae. Biostromes also contain at least 23 species of foraminifers, corals, bryozoans, brachiopods, annelids, molluscs, and crinoids. Aside from encrusting bryozoans and annelids, this associated fauna consists of immigrants from level-bottom communities with no special co-adaptations to biostrome formers. Other occurrences of Palaeoaplysina form a discrete belt around the northern rim of the late Paleozoic Laurentian continent from the Urals to Idaho. Presence of Palaeoaplysina in the McCloud Limestone is a significant biogeographic link with North America and argues that the Eastern Klamath Mountains are not a far-travelled terrane.
10.2307/3514750|Phanerozoic high-energy nearshore terrigenous clastic deposits characteristically contain trace fossil assemblages dominated by Skolithos or Ophiomorpha. The different geometries of these burrows result in the production of different types of ichnofabrics. In order to document extent of bioturbation a series of ichnofabric indices designed for strata deposited in this environment can be used. Data collected with this method reveal that ichnofabric index 1 (no bioturbation) constitutes nearly 50% of all but one of the six Phanerozoic stratigraphic sections that were studied. Nearly complete to complete reworking of original physical sedimentary structures is unusual in the studied post-Paleozoic sections, which are dominated by Ophiomorpha. In contrast, studied lower Paleozoic sections contain Skolithos piperock, reflecting complete disruption of original physical structures, which commonly alternates with non-bioturbated strata, resulting in a type of biostratification.
3515719|Large (up to 9.5 cm wide) and robust Cruziana ichnofossils are present in the Middle Triassic (Ladinian) Toad and Liard formations in northern British Columbia, Canada. These trace fossils are the first definitive occurrences of large Cruziana from post-Paleozoic marine strata. These traces, assigned to a new ichnospecies (Cruziana seilacheri), are similar in many respects to traces from the Lower Paleozoic, including the Cambrian ichnotaxon Cruziana rusoformis and the Ordovician ichnotaxon Cruziana furcifera. The morphology and orientation of scratchmarks in these traces suggest that they may have been constructed by either stomatopod or decapod crustaceans. The similarity of the Toad-Liard Cruziana to lower Paleozoic forms and their presence in post-Paleozoic marine rocks demonstrate that care should be taken when utilizing these traces as indicators of either Paleozoic deposition or a specific tracemaker.
10.2307/3515246|This study reports on the <sup>18</sup>O and <sup>13</sup>C composition of the skeleton from a 240-year-old specimen of Montastraea faveolata growing in Biscayne National Park, South Florida. Annual variations in the <sup>18</sup>O of the skeleton deposited during the summer months show a bimodal correlation with summer rainfall. During wetter years, the <sup>18</sup>O of the coral skeleton and the amount of precipitation during the summer months are inversely correlated (r = -0.7) reflecting dilution of the seawater by meteoric water lower in <sup>18</sup>O. During years in which summer rainfall is less than normal, increases in precipitation are positively correlated with skeletal <sup>18</sup>O (r = +0.6) reflecting the input of freshwater from the Everglades higher in <sup>18</sup>O. Based on this correlation the <sup>18</sup>O record of the coral skeleton suggests that the 19th and 18th centuries have been relatively dry compared to the 20th century. Carbon isotopic compositions of the skeleton are positively correlated with <sup>18</sup>O, with the minimum in <sup>13</sup>C occurring several months after the minimum in <sup>18</sup>O. Since the mid 1930s there has been a decrease in <sup>13</sup>C of the skeleton. Explanations for this trend may be (1) it reflects the increased input of carbon derived from the destruction of terrestrial ecosystems, (2) its part of a long-term decrease in <sup>13</sup>C associated with increased addition of fossil fuel-derived CO<sub>2</sub>.
27670436|The fossil remains of eurypterid cuticles in this study yield long-chain (<Cap=F01001039 to C22) aliphatic components similar to type II kerogen during pyrolysisgas chromatography/mass spectrometry, in contrast to the chitin and protein that constitute the bulk of modern analogs. Structural analysis (thermochemolysis) of eurypterid cuticles reveals fatty acyl moieties (derived from lipids) of chain lengths C7 to C18, with C16 and C18 components being the most abundant. The residue is immune to base hydrolysis, indicating a highly recalcitrant nature and suggesting that if ester linkages are present in the macromolecule, they are sterically protected. Some samples yield phenols and polyaromatic compounds, indicating a greater degree of aromatization, which correlates with higher thermal maturity as demonstrated by Raman spectroscopy. Analysis (including thermochemolysis) of the cuticle of modern scorpions and horseshoe crabs, living relatives of the eurypterids, shows that C16 and C18 fatty acyl moieties likewise dominate. If we assume that the original composition of the eurypterid cuticle is similar to that of living chelicerates, fossilization likely involves the incorporation of such lipids into an aliphatic polymer. Such a process of in situ polymerization accounts for the fossil record of eurypterids.
10.2307/3515359|A characteristic succession of sedimentary structures was observed in clastic Silurian tempestites of the Murzuk Basin of southwest Libya. The structures ("Manchuriophycus" syneresis cracks, "Astropolithon," load cracks, palimpsest ripples, "Kinneyia," microfault sets, and millimeter ripples) occur in sandstones and siltstones that show evidence of unusual cohesive behavior (cracks resulting from shrinking or degassing; resistance to erosion). In a sequence ranging from fully aerobic sandstones to anoxic graptolite shales, these structures characterize several zones of increasing redox stress, which correspond to ichnofacies zonation. It is postulated that microbial mats develop on the sediment surface whenever grazing and burrowing are suppressed. Depending on local conditions, biomats were leathery, felt-like, or gel-like. The observed matground structures resulted from the interaction of storm waves with microbial stabilization of progressively finer-grained sediments. Whereas such structures were ubiquitous in Precambrian clastics, they became restricted to hostile environments in the Phanerozoic, where they can be used to indicate environmental (mostly redox) stress, and possibly hydrocarbon potential, in sandstones and siltstones lacking other indicators.
10.2307/3514810|Lithified microbialites covered by a community of phototrophic filamentous cyanobacteria, green algae, and other bacteria have been found growing in shallow water within the restricted, organic-rich, hypersaline Gotomeer on the island of Bonaire, in the Netherlands Antilles, southern Caribbean. Over a 3 year period direct observations were made by SCUBA divers in this unusual organic mud- and gypsum-dominated microbe-rich basin. The restricted circulation within the Gotomeer basin, the variable but high temperatures, hypersalinity, mild acidity, and abundant organic matter throughout the basin promote bacterial growth, some of which produces both gelatinous organic-rich laminated bacterial mats and lithified microbialites growing in water to a depth of about 1.5 m. Like other microbialites that have been reported, some of these have a crudely laminated and a small scale clotted internal fabric. However, the clotted fabric differs from that described from true Paleozoic thrombolites. The aragonitic composition and internal fabric appear to be diagenetic in origin at least in part, probably being a by-product of the breakdown of gypsum by sulfate-reducing bacteria. The aragonite composition of the microbialites contrasts with the absence of calcium carbonate in the deeper water of the basin. Sulfate reduction in the Gotomeer basin may be the most important process through which aragonite is produced. The instability of sediments on the steep sides of the basin result in periodic slumps that carry black mud, pieces of shallow water gelatinous mats, and terrestrial and invertebrate skeletal material to the bottom of the basin. The movement of dense, saline water across the floor of the basin erodes a dendritic channel pattern on the floor of the basin that produces residual mud mounds over 1 m high. The presence of microbialites only along the fringe of the narrow channel that is surrounded by carbonate rocks, and their absence in the broader part of the Gotomeer basin in the north, suggests that the shallowness of the photic zone in these waters, the restricted circulation in the channel, and the composition of the rocks surrounding and underlying the basin may all play a role in their distribution. The growth and survival of the microbialites may be linked as well to environmental conditions such as high salinity, high temperature, mild acidity, and the restricted circulation, which appear to exclude grazers.
10.2307/3514773|Population growth models of taxonomic radiations of clades from their origins have rarely been tested at the species level on an evolutionary time scale. The diversification of Paleogene planktic Foraminifera following the mass extinctions at the Cretaceous-Tertiary boundary is tested for correspondence with the logistic growth model and paleoenvironmental record. An explosive initial diversification rate lasted less than 1 ma. A period of slow, fluctuating growth to a mid-Eocene maximum of 44 species followed. A large-diversity fluctuation at the Paleocene/Eocene boundary is caused by an extinction pulse and low origination rate. The rest of the Paleogene was marked by a very slow decline in species richness. There is no correlation between the record of temperature fluctuations and global diversity, except for the correspondence of the final phase of slow decline with a cooling of oceanic surface waters. During this last period, with time partialled out, originations and extinctions are correlated (P  0.10), weakly supporting a hypothesis of diversity-dependent equilibrium. Average durations for species originating within these three phases doubled with each phase. Diversity data better fit a simple asymptotic rather than logistic or sigmoid curve; initial exponential growth occurs much more rapidly than does the slowed growth to equilibrium. Comparisons of diversification between radiating clades must be done with a diversity-dependent curve in mind; there can be as much difference among different phases of a clade's history as among different groups.
10.2307/3515617|The Lower Triassic (Smithian-Spathian) Union Wash Formation (east-central California), deposited along the western edge of Pangea, is generally barren of macrofossils with the exception of ammonoids. To better understand the paleoenvironmental conditions that existed in the region of Union Wash Formation deposition, data were gathered concerning the taphonomy, sedimentology, and distribution of these ammonoids. Results indicate Meekoceras bed deposition was due to a drop in background sedimentation rates, perhaps coupled with favorable environmental conditions. Disappearance of ammonoid shells in the stratigraphic interval above the Meekoceras bed appears to be the result of a shallow aragonite compensation depth (ACD); the return of ammonoids higher in the section is associated with the appearance of seafloor calcium carbonate cements that represent an increase in the degree of calcium carbonate supersaturation, related to the upwelling of anoxic, alkaline waters. The subsequent disappearance of seafloor cements suggests that seawater calcium carbonate chemistry returned to normal prior to deposition of the Parapopanoceras bed. The condensed nature of the Parapopanoceras bed, coupled with poor shell preservation, indicates deposition as a lag deposit. Bedding plane occurrences of ammonoids elsewhere in the sequence imply deposition as mass mortality events possibly related to anoxia (indicated by the depauperate and laminated nature of much of the unit) and/or hypercapnia (related to the growth of seafloor cements). The results of this study further attest to the unusual paleoceanographic conditions that were present off the western margin of Pangea during the Early Triassic recovery from the end-Permian mass extinction.
3515724|The first Late Cretaceous dinosaur tracksite recorded from Arizona, preserving over 100 footprints, also preserves sinuous grooves here interpreted to be impressions left by the tail of a large vertebrate as it dragged through sediment now assigned to the Toreva Formation. Although no footprints are preserved that can be referred unambiguously to the individual or individuals that produced the tail-drag marks, the dynamic nature of the surface upon which the tracks were made, likely a river or stream shoreline, could have easily resulted in their disturbance or obliteration. As best as can be determined on the basis of a depauperate marine fauna from the lower part of the unit, and on the basis of a substantial hiatus that separates the lower and upper parts, the site is probably middle Coniacian in age. These tracks and drag marks add significantly to the exceptionally rare record of terrestrial vertebrates known from the Toreva Formation.
3515771|Ten planktonic foraminiferal zones are identified and six stratigraphic sequences are interpreted in the Turonian-Maastrichtian interval of the Michu-1 well in the Upper Magdalena Basin. Anoxic bottom-water conditions prevailed during the Turonian and Coniacian followed by dysoxic conditions in the Santonian and Campanian. Oxic conditions were established during the Maastrichtian age. Upwelling occurred for most of the Late Cretaceous. Coccolithophorids, planktonic foraminifera, radiolaria, ammonites, clupeoid fish, and mosasaurs dominated the food-web structure of the Turonian-Coniacian interval. Following a major turnover during the Coniacian-Santonian boundary interval, dinoflagellates were the primary producers that sustained radiolarians, a sparse population of planktonic foraminifera, clupeoid fish, and ammonites. Dinoflagellate blooms (peridinoids) were frequent during the Campanian interval and sustained a sparse population of planktonic foraminifera and abundant clupeoid fish whose feces (phosphatic pellets) were grazed extensively by a specialized population of buliminids dominated by the genus Siphogenerinoides.
20173022|The degree to which the original community composition of the Middle Cambrian Burgess Shale was altered through transport and decay and how taphonomic conditions varied through time and across taxa is poorly understood. To address these issues, variation in fossil preservation was analyzed through a vertical succession of 26 bed assemblages, each representing a single obrution event, within the 7m-thick Greater Phyllopod Bed of the Walcott Quarry. More than 50,000 specimens belonging to 158 genera-mostly benthic, monospecific and nonbiomineralized-were included in this analysis. The decay gradient of the polychaete Burgessochaeta setigera was used as a taphonomic threshold to estimate how far decay had proceeded in each bed assemblage. Qualitative comparisons of the degree of preservation of 15 species, representing an array of different body plans, demonstrate that all bed assemblages contain a mix of articulated and in situ dissociated or completely dissociated organisms interpreted respectively as census- and time-averaged assemblages. Furthermore: (1) most organisms studied were preserved within their habitat and only slightly disturbed during burial; (2) most decay processes took place prior to burial and resulted in disarticulation of organisms at the time of burial; (3) the degree of disarticulation was variable within individuals of the same population and between populations; and (4) early mineralization of tissues across all body plans occurred soon after burial. Canonical correspondence analysis summarizes the apparent variations in the amount of preburial decay, or time averaging, across species, individuals, and bed assemblages. The effect of time averaging, however, must have been limited because rarefaction curves reveal no link between decay and species richness. This suggests that decay is not an important community controlling factor. Overall, our data suggest that transport was trivial and the traditional distinction between a pre- and postslide environment is unnecessary. It is likely that all specimens present at the time of burial would have been preserved independent of their original tissue composition and degree of preburial decay. The presence of extensive sheets of Morania confluens, a putative benthic cyanobacterium, in most bed assemblages suggests that it: (1) provided a stable substrate and food source for a number of benthic metazoans, and (2) played a possible role in the preservation of nonbiomineralized animals, acting as a barrier in maintaining local anoxic pore-water conditions.
27670529|The early Pliocene locality Galili in the southern Afar depression (Somali Region, Ethiopia) yields fossil suid and elephantoid remains from the Lasdanan, Dhidinley, Godiray, and Shabeley Laag Members in the Mount Galili Formation. The early Pliocene Galili faunal assemblage, including hominid fossils, comes from a crucial time span of early hominid evolution from 3.5 Ma to 4.5 Ma based on biostratigraphic correlation and preliminary radiometric results. Nyanzachoerus pattersoni, Notochoerus jaegeri are found in the Lasdanan, Dhidinley, and younger Shabeley Laag Members, and Anancus kenyensis (advanced morph), Loxodonta cf. exoptata or L. cf. adaurora are recovered from Dhidinley and Shabeley Laag Members, whereas Notochoerus euilus and the genus Elephas were only found in the Shabeley Laag Member. Comparison of pig and elephantoid remains with taxa from radiometrically dated sites in eastern Africa show that the Galili assemblage correlates well with Kenyan fossils from the Kanapoi sequence and the Apak and Kaiyumung Members of Lothagam. Galili further correlates with the Kataboi Member of the Nachukui Formation at West Turkana and the Moiti and Lokochot Members of Koobi Fora at East Turkana. It also correlates well with the Mursi Formation and the Basal Member and Member A of the Omo Shungura Formation and the lower portion of the Hadar and Sangantole Formations in the Middle Awash region in Ethiopia. The paleoecology of the faunal community from the Dhidinley and Shabeley Laag Members suggests open woodland to bushland-woodland and shrubland habitats for Galili.
40606433|Millipedes are known from body fossils as early as the Silurian, and they are an important part of modern global soil ecosystems. Little is known, however, of the morphology of millipede burrows in either the modern or the fossil record. The burrowing behavior and traces of two species of extant millipedes were studied in a laboratory setting. The goal of this research was to determine the connections between millipede morphology, burrow morphology, and media conditions. Specimens of Archispirostreptus gigas and Orthoporus ornatus were placed in large, sediment-filled terrariums. The sediment was varied in terms of texture, compactness, and moisture. Traces produced by the millipedes were then cast and described. The burrow morphology of each species was primarily controlled by trace-making behavior, including excavation methods and burrow occupation time. Orthoporus ornatus burrowed by excavation to construct subvertical shafts leading to terminal chambers occupied for several days to weeks.Archispirostreptus gigas burrowed by sediment compression to construct large-diameter, sinuous tunnels occupied for hours to days. Increasing the clay content, compaction, and moisture content of the sediment together served to inhibit burrowing. Specimens of A. gigas were unable to burrow into compact or clay-rich sediments, whereas specimens of O. ornatus were able to burrow into even firm clay.Neither species was able to burrow into water-saturated media. The study described in this paper aids in understanding the relationships among the morphology of terrestrial biogenic structures, organism size, organism behavior, and media conditions.
10.2307/3514545|This paper presents a new, more detailed depth zonation of the northwestern Gulf of Mexico based on one of the best benthic foraminiferal data sets published. Fourteen depth-relatable zones defined at the generic level are recognized, six in the neritic interval, seven in the bathyal interval, and one restricted to abyssal depths. A test of the depth zonation using modern data shows that 90% of all samples are correctly classified. Slightly lower levels of reliability of classification for the bathyal versus the neritic interval are evident due to naturally occurring overlaps of generic depth distributions in the bathyal interval. The model was further tested using Neogene samples from two northwestern Gulf of Mexico wells. The results show that the new automated depth classification technique provides interpretations similar to depth estimates based on conventional approaches. Although it is difficult to compare new results against depth estimates rather than known depths, the new technique appears to provide considerable data that indicate where and when the possibilities of sea-level changes, subsidence, faulting, downslope transport, or downhole caving should be investigated.
3515666|Bioturbation long has been 'blamed' for eliminating late Proterozoic-style sedimentary structures and fabrics. While the presence of diverse and complex burrows in lowermost Cambrian strata is indisputable, analysis of Precambrian-Cambrian successions in southeast Newfoundland demonstrate that this burrowing style did not produce typical Phanerozoic-style ichnofabrics. Three hundred meters of the siltstone/sandstone facies of member 2 of the Chapel Island Formation were examined in the area of the Precambrian-Cambrian boundary stratotype. Gyrolithes, Planolites, and Skolithos occur as sand infills ubiquitously throughout siltstone beds, most commonly without direct contact with an overlying sandstone bed, as if "floating" in the siltstone. In contrast, Treptichnus pedum occurs as sand infills adhering onto the base of thin sandstone beds that have different grain size and texture than the burrow infills. Both of these burrow types represent a style of preservation in which the burrows are unattached to an overlying bed of the casting sediment. These styles of preservation occur frequently in the Treptichnus pedum Zone and continue into the Rusophycus avalonensis Zone in spite of an increase in trace fossil diversity. The sandstone beds are bioturbated only very rarely. The resultant fabric produced by floating and, in particular, adhering burrows in these shallow marine deposits appears to be characteristic of many Lower Cambrian rocks. Silt layers appear to have been firm enough to have supported open burrows, likely as a result of a negligible mixed layer. This line of reasoning would predict that preservation of this type would be uncommon in younger strata deposited in open marine settings.
10.2307/3515615|A low-diversity halysitid-heliolitid autobiostrome from the Late Wenlock Halla Formation at <tex-math>$Bl\aa h\ddot{a}ll$</tex-math> 1, Gotland, indicates a brief period of particular environmental conditions. The reef is 0.3-0.5 m thick, internally without bedding structures, and had a sheet-like distribution on a low-relief soft-bottom, in marginal platform, graptolitiferous strata (height-width ratio is 1:900 in outcrop). The dominating coral species building this mud-facies biostrome were the tabulates Stelliporella cf. parvistella and Halysites laticatenatus. The rugose coral fauna is dominated by fixosessile and rhizosessile forms with well developed holdfasts, for example Dokophyllum elegantulum. Coral growth forms generally indicate high background sedimentation rates during the growth of the biostrome. Four successive stages of sea-floor development are discussed: (1) a pre-biostrome stage, (2) a pioneering community stage, (3) a climax-community stage, and (4) a post-biostrome stage. Stratigraphically, these stages show an increased carbonate-siliciclastic ratio, a decreased phosphorus content, somewhat lighter <sup>18</sup>O stable isotopes, and an increased rate of bioturbation. The climax-community stage coincides with a bloom(?) in paleocopid and metacopid ostracodes. The biostrome differs from all other Wenlock-Ludlow reefs on Gotland in its geographic and stratigraphic isolation on the seaward slope of the carbonate platform. It was the first re-appearance of a reefal stucture following the oceanic Mulde Event and associated eustasy. On a regional scale, this appearance coincided with an inferred high-stand systems tract and the onset of widespread reef growth in the basin indicating that, at least, basin-regional factors controlled reef growth.
3514953|Late Pleistocene strata on Grand Cayman and San Salvador Island contain fossil corals which became the nuclei for rhodolites that in turn became the nuclei for microbialites. The corals grew in shallow lagoons (<5 m deep) where there was constant water movement due to the breaking of waves over the nearby reef. Dead branches of Acropora cervicornis that lay on the seafloor became encrusted by red algae, foraminifera, and serpulid worms to form rhodolites. Photophilic Porolithon was the initial colonizer. Subsequent colonization by sciaphilic Neogoniolithon, Tenarea, Lithothamnium, Carpenteria utricularis, Homotrema rubrum, and serpulid worms occurred in cryptic habitats on the undersides of the branches. Periodic high energy conditions overturned the coral branches and promoted the development of the encrusting organisms on all sides. For Pocillopora, which remained in life position, the sciaphilic organisms only encrusted those parts of branches that were shaded by other branches. The final stage in the community replacement sequence involved filamentous cyanobacteria trapping micrite to form microbialites. This probably occurred in a shallow, quiet-water setting where micrite was accumulating. During this stage there was no movement of the substrates. The complex community replacement sequence from corals to rhodolites to microbialites developed in response to the drop in sea level which followed the Sangamon highstand approximately 125,000 years ago. As the water became progressively shallower and quieter the fauna and flora changed accordingly.
10.2307/3515016|Taphonomic processes affecting samples of amber inclusions are outlined. Comparison of traditional collecting methods dependent on human recognition of amber nodules (hereafter called picking) with bulk sampling, screening and salt water floatation indicate that significant amounts of amber are overlooked by traditional methods. Picking over-represents large nodules and under-represents small ones. This is significant because small nodules produce the highest number of inclusions per kilogram. Although small nodules have the lowest trapping efficiency, this liability is more than compensated for by their abundance and high proportion of external flows. Bulk screened samples produce more inclusions per kilogram of amber with lower between-sample variation. The proposed sampling method, if universally applied, would eliminate investigator bias in amber samples and establish a baseline for standardizing quantification of amber faunas. Bulk sampling and assessment of diversity per kilogram of amber allow more accurate estimation of total arthropod fauna through taxon/mass curves. Completeness of sampling can be estimated through evaluation of standard errors of species abundance as mass of amber increases. Consequently, community structure and organization can be more accurately described and compared with extant communities or other amber faunas, and changes in terrestrial arthropod diversity over time can be more accurately measured.
20173027|The first report of a multitaxon aggregation from the Early Triassic Lystrosaurus Assemblage Zone is presented here. The aggregation includes two vertebrates-the suricate-sized cynodont Galesaurus planiceps and a gecko-like procolophonoid Owenetta kitchingorum-and a diplopod millipede. The high degree of articulation of the skeletal remains and the preservation of delicate bones in situ suggest that the animals were either rapidly buried or died in a place protected from weathering and agents of dispersal. Two hypotheses are possible to explain this multitaxon aggregation: trapping in a floodplain gully followed by immediate burial or shelter-sharing. The latter hypothesis is favored after the analysis of the fossil evidence recorded in the South African Karoo Basin.
25835613|There is not yet a precise classification of or terminology for ecostratigraphic boundaries. SHE analysis for biozone identification (SHEBI) objectively places boundaries between abundance biozones (ABs). Alpha diversity (=S <sub>E</sub> = e <sup>H</sup> , where H is the information function) measures the community diversity within an AB in units of effective species, whereas the dimensionless  diversity (=S <sub>E2</sub> /S <sub>E1</sub> , where S <sub>E1</sub> and S <sub>E2</sub> are the  diversities of successive ABs) quantifies the difference in  diversity between successive ABs. Three categories of AB boundary are recognized depending on the value of . In Type -1, the  diversity of the younger AB is significantly less than that of the older. In Type 0, S <sub>E2</sub>  S <sub>E1</sub> , while in Type +1, the  diversity of the younger AB is significantly greater than in the older. Benthonic foraminifera were sampled from the 124-m-thick Pleistocene strata of DSDP Hole 148 (eastern Caribbean Sea). SHEBI indicated 18 ABs; of the 17 AB boundaries, seven were Type -1, two were Type 0, and eight, Type +1. The direction of inflection of the graph of lnE versus lnN did not indicate AB boundary type. Although the Pleistocene was characterized by repeated alternations between glacial and interglacial conditions, there was no regular alternation of Type -1 and +1 AB boundaries. Complementarity (i.e., species level distinctiveness of successive ABs) was measured using a percentage similarity index, C <sub>P</sub> . Differing complimentarities show that boundaries between ABs varied with respect to permeability to species, while beta diversities and C <sub>P</sub> were uncorrelated.
10.2307/3514573|The Eocene-Oligocene boundary is widely cited as the "other" example (besides the Cretaceous-Tertiary boundary) of a known relationship between mass extinctions and bolide impacts. The stratigraphic ranges of species of Gulf Coast molluscs reveal a stepwise extinction pattern from the late Middle Eocene to the Oligocene with a peak of extinctions at the Middle-Late Eocene boundary. Although several large transgressions and regressions of the Gulf Coast occurred during this interval, there is little or no correlation between the molluscan extinctions and shelf-area reduction. Temperature drops appear to be the primary cause of these extinctions because of their close stratigraphic association with the extinction events and because of the selective loss of warm-water taxa. These conclusions corroborate the relationship between temperature and extinction seen by Stanley (1984). Although the stepped nature of the extinctions argues against the single impact hypothesis as a cause, it is intriguing that these extinctions correlate with sediments containing multiple microtektite horizons and stepped extinctions of planktonic foraminifera. These observations are consistent with a multiple impact or comet shower scenario as the ultimate cause of the temperature drops.
40606524|Three newly discovered bonebeds from the Shishugou Formation of Xinjiang, China, are unusual in preserving vertically stacked and articulated to associated skeletons of at least 18 small, non-avian theropod dinosaurs in pits that are 1-2 m deep. The pits host a soft sediment-deformed mixture of alluvial and volcanic mudstone and sandstone. There is no evidence that the pits were discrete depressions in the topography that filled through time. Rather, they appear to have been highly localized areas of liquefaction caused by large-dinosaur (possibly sauropod) trampling of saturated sediments. Evidence indicates that the small theropods, and some other small vertebrates, became mired and died in these mud-filled pits. High quality skeletal preservation suggests that most individuals were buried within days to months after their deaths. Carcasses were buried successively, coming to rest above previously buried individuals. In some cases, skeletal body parts became separated or were removed, probably during scavenging. Given the large sizes of the pits relative to the small body sizes of the vertebrates contained within them, we conclude that small vertebrates (< 3 m long and < 1 m tall) were particularly susceptible to miring at these sites. Although the small, presumably herbivorous ceratosaur, Limusaurus inextricabilisy dominates the combined small theropod assemblage from these bonebeds (minimum number of individuals [MNI] = 15), there is no evidence that any biological features other than its small size and a large, and possibly, gregarious local population were responsible for its becoming mired in large numbers. A bias for small theropods in these bonebeds, compared to their relatively low abundance in the overall Shishugou Formation fauna, underscores that small theropods are underrepresented in Mesozoic fossil assemblages collected from other ancient alluvial and paludal settings.
10.2307/3515555|A fossil woodland/forest in Upper Cretaceous strata of the Aguja Formation in Big Bend National Park, Texas, preserves two species of dicotyledonous trees with trunks up to 1.3 m in diameter. The straight buttressed trunks, absence of low branching, and lack of distinct growth rings suggest that these trees represent a tropical evergreen community having a canopy height of 40 to 50 m. Well before the end of Cretaceous time, dicotyledonous angiosperms were the dominant canopy forming trees in at least some ecosystems in North America. These trees may have been among the woody plants that produced the Normapolles palynoflora.
10.2307/3514825|Chemoautotrophically-based benthic communities on the Louisiana continental slope are currently producing the only significant localized, autochthonous shell accumulations in the northern Gulf of Mexico shelf and slope region. These sites are well below storm wave base and are not subject to anthropogenic disturbance. Five distinctive biofacies are associated with petroleum seepage, dominated respectively by vestimentiferan tubeworms, lucinid, thyasirid and vesicomyid clams and mytilid mussels. The taphonomy of petroleum seeps includes dissolution as the most pervasive mode of shell alteration throughout all the biofacies. Authigenic carbonate commonly precipitates on shell material although precipitation occurs less frequently than does evidence of dissolution in all biofacies. The degree of fragmentation is high and is likely caused by biological breakage and extreme dissolution. Autochthonous assemblages show substantial small-scale spatial variability in all taphonomic attributes. Most of the dominant species in each assemblage closely reflected the overall taphonomic signature of the assemblage in which they dominate. Characteristics common to seep and many ancient autochthonous assemblages include: (1) low species richness-species richness of petroleum seep assemblages is moderately high but declines with increasing burial depth suggesting that preserved species richness would be low; (2) high density; (3) size frequency dominated by large individuals-size-frequency distributions of most seep assemblages are bimodal, however large individuals are more likely to be preserved; (4) variable articulation frequency-among biofacies, articulation frequency ranged from nearly 100% to nearly 0%. The community taphonomic attributes of petroleum seep death assemblages are very similar to ancient autochthonous benthic assemblages. The differences that exist in, for example, size-frequency distribution, articulation frequency and species richness, are primarily due to the incompleteness of taphonomic processes at the seeps and secondarily because interpretations of ancient autochthonous assemblages have been based on conceptual models that have not been adequately tested by comparison with modern analogs. With respect to the latter, autochthonous assemblages with low articulation frequencies may not be recognized as autochthonous in the fossil record.
10.2307/3515055|Normal marine deposition in the early Aptian was interrupted by an episode of ocean-wide dysoxia/anoxia. This event is recorded by the occurrence of organic carbon-rich sediments in land sections from Europe and Deep Sea Drilling Project (DSDP)/Ocean Drilling Program (ODP) sites in the North and South Atlantic, Indian and Pacific Ocean Basins. To elucidate the origin, and spatial and temporal relationships of these carbonaceous sediments, we have conducted an integrated biostratigraphic, lithostratigraphic and geochemical investigation of fourteen sections from a range of geographic and oceanographic settings. Based on the resulting high-resolution, integrated foraminiferal and nannofossil biostratigraphy, it appears that most locations were characterized by a relatively brief interval of peak dysoxia/anoxia (less than a million years in duration), in the midst of a longer (approximately 2-3 million year) interval of intermittent oxygen deficiency which began in the late Barremian. This peak can be recognized either from organic carbon contents or from intervals barren of calcareous plankton; in most places it lies within the lower Aptian Globigerinelloides blowi foraminiferal Zone and the Chiastozygus litterarius nannofossil Zone (Conusphaera rothii Subzone) and occurred shortly after magnetic Chron CM0. The dysoxic/anoxic interval affected sites in a wide range of oceanic paleoenvironments. Nannofossil assemblage data indicate highly variable fertility during this interval and suggest that no single model can account for the origin of all organic carbon-rich horizons. These data indicate that peak oxygen deficiency corresponded to a highly eutrophic interval but less intense dysoxic/anoxic periods were characterized by oligotrophic conditions. The late Barremian to early Aptian was a time of evolutionary radiation in both planktonic foraminifers and calcareous nannofossils, no significant changes in speciation rates are associated with the oxygen-deficient interval itself. The extinction of one of the dominant Early Cretaceous nannoplankton species, Nannoconus steinmannii may be related to events which led to dysoxia/anoxia including periodically higher fertility. Tectonovolcanic events such as increased production of mid-plate oceanic crust may have indirectly induced the dysoxic/anoxic episode by causing complex changes in climate, ocean chemistry and circulation, and sea level. The lack of a clear stratigraphic correlation between C<sub>org</sub>-rich horizons and the carbon isotopic record indicates that these inter-relationships are extremely complex.
40960976|Paleozoic bryozoans differ significantly from modern forms in systematics and form, and in strength and occurrence of morphotypes. Nevertheless, the distribution of bryozoan morphotypes in modern oceans is often applied to the interpretation of fossil depositional environments. This study assesses the dominance of bryozoan morphotypes in the upper Paleozoic glaciomarine Tasmania Basin, and determines the environmental parameters that control their distribution by comparison with the environmental distribution and life habit of co-occurring brachiopod and bivalve biotas. Common Tasmanian late Paleozoic bryozoan morphotypes are erect-rigid fenestrate, erect-rigid branching, and erect-rigid foliose, with impersistent occurrences of encrusting forms. Water energy, or turbulence, is the primary control on bryozoan occurrence, with erect-rigid fenestrates occuring in low-energy settings, similar to reclining productid brachiopods, and erect-rigid folise and branching forms in lowto moderate-energy settings, similar to nestling spiriferids. The secondary environmental parameter controlling bryozoan distribution is sediment accumulation rate. Both brachiopods and bryozoans need to keep their lophophores clear of sediment particles and are usually assumed to indicate low water turbidity. Differential epifaunal tiering, however, allows erect bryozoans to inhabit settings where sediment accumulation rates are sufficient to bury primary tier brachiopods at the sediment surface. With the caveat that water energy levels must remain at low-tomoderate levels, erect-rigid bryozoans are capable of dominating onshore settings where sedimentation rates may prohibit brachiopod dominance. The distribution of late Paleozoic bryozoan morphotypes examined here differs from modern distributions.
3515653|Renalcids are a problematic group of mostly Paleozoic microbial fossils. In the Upper Devonian reef complex of the Canning Basin, Western Australia, they grew in cryptic reef environments, such as the undersides of laminar stromatoporoids during Frasnian time and within arborescent thrombolites during Famennian time. Renalcids preferred a pendant growth habit and were often the final phase of microbial encrustation in reef crypts. The micritic chambers of the Upper Devonian renalcids, Shuguria and Izhella, have carbon isotope values 0.3-1.8<tex-math>$\textperthousand$</tex-math> lower than contemporaneous early marine cements, suggesting incorporation of respired CO<sub>2</sub> into the micrite. Based on growth environment and carbon-isotope geochemistry, renalcids are neither fossilized cyanobacteria nor marine algae. Renalcids may be fossilized biofilm clusters, which calcified due to heterotrophic bacterial activity within biofilm microenvironments. The dendritic clots of the renalcids are similar in size and morphology to reported microbial clusters observed in laboratory biofilms and modern bacterial shrubs from travertine deposits. Cloudy microcrystalline cement and weakly laminated micrite immediately surrounding the renalcid chambers may have formed by calcification and sediment agglutination in extra-polymeric substances associated with the biofilm clusters. The biofilm model of renalcids explains their geochemistry, cryptic habitat, and morphology. Preservation of biofilms as renalcids may have required rapid calcite precipitation rates.
25835606|Fossils of extinct fur seals and walruses (Carnivora: Pinnipedia) occur within rich vertebrate fossil assemblages recovered from the shallow marine Mio-Pliocene Purisima Formation, central California. Two isolated postcranial bonesa humerus and a radiusbelonging to a juvenile fur seal (Pinnipedia: Otariidae) exhibit circular depressions. These bone modifications are associated with radial and circular fractures, and are characterized by inward displacement of the cortex. These depressions lack features typical of erosive invertebrate borings, trampling damage from media (=substrate) interaction, puncturing by another object during diagenetic compaction, such as a clast embedded or associated with the modification, or pathologic bone modification. These features are best interpreted as tooth marks. These tooth marks lack certain characteristics of commonly reported marks inflicted by shark teeth, such as linear gouges and subparallel scrapes formed by xiphodont and serrated teeth. These bone modifications instead exhibit a circular shape and inward displacement of the cortex, consistent with puncturing by a conical mammal tooth. The size and distribution of the tooth marks, in concert with the known vertebrate assemblage from the Purisima Formation, indicate several possible producers of the bone modifications: a pilot whale or beluga-like cetacean, a terrestrial carnivore, a dusignathine or odobenine walrus, or a case of infanticide by a conspecific otariid.
10.2307/3514491|The latest Cretaceous (Santonian to Maastrichtian) Normapolles and Aquilapollenites floristic provinces are well known; they occupied the southeastern part and most of the northern and western parts, respectively, of North America. The continental margin floristic province of this paper differs from the other two provinces because of its largely endemic pollen species, its abundance of Proteacidites group pollen, and its generally low abundance or lack of pollen of the Aquilapollenites, Callistopollenites, Normapolles, wind-pollinated? triporate, and angiosperm monosulcate groups. Characteristic features and geographic distribution of the continental margin province are based on previously described assemblages from British Columbia and newly examined assemblages from California. Latest Cretaceous sediments of this province rest on rocks of the Wrangellia terrane and the Coast Plutonic Complex in southwestern British Columbia, on the Salinian terrane of the La Panza Range, and on the Stanley Mountain terrane of the southeastern San Rafael Mountains, all of which have been translated northward at least 2000 km since the Campanian according to paleomagnetic data. Thus, latest Cretaceous floras of the continental margin province were isolated from floras to the east partly because of oceanic and mountain barriers but probably also because they formed in more tropical climates than most floras of the other two provinces.
27670528|Cuttings recovered from two deep exploratory wells in the Lihue Basin, Kauai, Hawaii, include fossiliferous marine deposits that offer an uncommon opportunity to study paleoenvironments from the deep subsurface in Hawaii and interpret the paleogeography and geologic history of Kauai. These deposits indicate that two marine incursions gave rise to protected shallow-water, low-energy embayments in the southern part of the Lihue Basin in the late Plioceneearly Pleistocene. During the first marine incursion, the embayment was initially zoned, with a variable-salinity environment nearshore and a normal-marine reef environment offshore. The offshore reef environment eventually evolved to a nearshore, variable-salinity environment as the outer part of the embayment shallowed. During the second marine incursion, the embayment had normal-marine to hypersaline conditions, which constitute a significant departure from the variable-salinity environment present during the first marine incursion. Large streams draining the southern Lihue Basin are a likely source of the freshwater that caused the salinity fluctuations evident in the fossils from the first marine incursion. Subsequent volcanic eruptions produced lava flows that buried the embayment and probably diverted much of the stream flow in the southern Lihue Basin northward, to its present point of discharge north of Kalepa Ridge. As a result, the embayment that formed during the second marine incursion received less freshwater, and a normal-marine to hypersaline environment developed. The shallow-water marine deposits, currently buried between 86 m and 185 m below present sea level, have implications for regional tectonics and global eustasy.
10.2307/3514772|The white monotonous chalk from the Upper Cretaceous-lowermost Tertiary of Northwest Europe spans at least 24 million years and contains a rich, well-preserved fauna of minute brachiopods. Based on taxonomical range charts and time-specific diversities, this fauna is studied in terms of mean species longevity, rate of species origination, and rate of extinction. The brachiopod fauna initially appears to have colonized the chalk sea in mid-Coniacian times. From there on a slow buildup of species diversity reflects a gradual niche diversification of the chalk. Adjustment and evolutionary stability reaches a climax in Late Maastrichtian time. During the Coniacian-Maastrichtian interval, mean rate of extinction is low (0.07 My<sup>-1</sup>) and mean rate of origination equally low (0.09 My<sup>-1</sup>). A sudden mass extinction at the Maastrichtian-Danian boundary, however, eliminated more than 70% of the species. The most specialized species, in particular the secondarily free-lying species, apparently became extinct at the boundary. Only six species are known to cross the Maastrichtian-Danian boundary. These are all relatively featureless, non-specialized forms and, together with possible survivors in basin margin areas, gave rise to a rapidly formed, highly diverse Early Danian fauna through adaptive radiation. The Early Danian fauna differs in taxonomic composition from the Maastrichtian fauna both on species as well as on higher taxonomic levels. A dichotomous classification of extinction seems real for the brachiopods from the chalk as their mass extinction at the Maastrichtian-Danian boundary both quantitatively and qualitatively differ from their Late Cretaceous background extinction.
10.2307/3514461|With increasing temperatures, microscopic fish remains (called ichthyoliths) undergo significant color alterations and therefore may be useful in determining the paleotemperature histories of sedimentary rock sequences. For this preliminary study, ichthyoliths were heated in open air and their resultant colors recorded and compared to other standards such as conodont color alteration and vitrinite reflectance values. Although ichthyoliths undergo significant changes in color when exposed to thermal gradients, these colors are highly variable in the majority of dentinal tissues observed, and preclude a simple correlation between color and the degree of thermal alteration. In addition, the porosity of ichthyoliths makes them highly susceptible to other factors (e.g. permineralization) which can alter their color and imply thermal alteration where none has occurred. Based on these initial experiments, it appears that the denser fish material is more likely to be useful in carbonization studies and that, because of the porosity of fish remains, open-air heating experiments are not appropriate tests of thermal maturation of ichthyoliths as they are with conodonts.
25835631|Drilling predation is among the most studied biotic interactions in the fossil record, and its overall patterns are well established on Cenozoic mollusks from North America. Few studies have examined such predation in Europe, which experienced a different geologic history. This study aims to evaluate taxonomic and environmental effects on molluscan drilling intensities from the Miocene of the Central Paratethys using drill frequency (DF) and prey effectiveness (PE), a measure of prey's ability to survive predatory attacks. 166 bulk samples from Austria and Slovakia that included 39,234 whole shells from the Karpatian (upper Burdigalian) and Badenian (Langhian and lower Serravallian) showed that at the level of stages, environments and localities, DF and PE were always below 10% and were slightly higher in bivalves than gastropods. Predation intensities from the Central Paratethys are therefore distinctly lower than those of other Miocene seas and it is hypothesized that this is explained by the rarity of naticid and muricid gastropods in the study area. The underlying factors controlling abundances of these drilling predators in the Central Paratethys could be related to the complex paleogeographic history of this inland sea. Intertidal DFs and PEs increased temporally, but differences in sublittoral DFs were not significant and PE values decreased significantly. Temporal patterns in DF and PE are influenced by disparities in sampled environments between the lower and middle Miocene. In general, comparisons of DFs across environments within the Karpatian and Badenian yielded similar results using higher and lower taxa. In contrast, such comparisons of PE were dependent upon taxonomic resolution.
10.2307/3514622|Past lake stages of Lake Michigan are the result of water level Stillstands and fluctuations initiated by the withdrawal of the Wisconsin glacial ice sheet (approximately 10,000-5000 years before present). Dominance diversity, evenness, and community profiles were used to determine the effects of these fluctuations on ostracode populations and to reconstruct the paleoenvironment of glacial Lake Michigan. Results indicate that ostracode community diversity was low, and evenness was high during this period. Few species of ostracodes could tolerate the cold temperatures and oligotrophic conditions of the prehistoric lake system. This assemblage consists of Candona subtriangulata and C. crogmaniana. Community profiles changed with fluctuations in water level. One significant change in diversity indices is recorded between the oldest lake stage (Algonquin) and the stratigraphically overlying, shallowest stage (Chippewa). Increase in diversity was probably a result of increasing nutrient availability and salinity, two by-products of erosional processes and evaporation initiated when the lake level declined and the climate warmed. These changes in diversity and abundance may imply an increase in primary productivity. As much as 32% of lake-bottom sediments were exposed during the Chippewa water level minimum. This exposure of land and the resulting decrease in lake surface may have affected local and regional climate. Glacioisostatic rebound of channel openings caused the lake level to rise to an extreme high (Nipissing stage). With increasing water levels, ostracode profiles changed and suggest that the hypolimnion decreased in salinity and dissolved O<sub>2</sub>. Although statistical analysis of diversity indices does not support significant changes in the environment between Winnetka and Lake Forest Members, this analysis may have been biased by small sample numbers.
10.2307/3515022|Rapid deposition of laminated sediments in tidally influenced estuaries can explain many characteristics of some Carboniferous Konservat-Lagersttten. In modern environments each tide can potentially deposit a layer of normally graded mud. Localized depositional rates as high as 1 cm or more of sediment per week can occur in tidal estuarine settings. Characteristic periodicities in lamination thicknesses reflect neapspring cycles and other earth-moon orbital parameters; these periodicities can be used to identify tidal deposits in Carboniferous rocks. Commonly preserved in tidal sedimentary rocks are neap/spring cycles and the semi-diurnal tidal inequality. Such deposits are widespread in the midcontinental USA. The major features of the tidal model of Lagersttten formation are: sediment is delivered to the site by each tide; high rates of deposition result in rapid burial of carcasses at the sediment-water interface; high depositional rates, high turbidity, and fluctuating or brackish salinity reduce or prevent bioturbation, colonization by benthic invertebrates, and scavenging; the combination of semipermeable muddy sediment and high levels of organic carbon may lead to anoxic porewater, and will also prevent bioturbation and scavenging of buried skeletons. The superficial similarity of tidal laminations to lacustrine varves and the general lack of marine benthos in tidal deposits can lead to mistaken limnic interpretations of mud-dominated parts of estuarine facies.
10.2307/3515305|The latest Arikareean (early Miocene) mammal fauna from Morava Ranch Quarry, northwest Nebraska, U.S.A., is dominated by large perissodactyls, including equids, rhinocerotids, and especially the chalicothere Moropus elatus. Lithic and faunal comparisons with the Agate Spring Quarries and Harper Quarry, also from northwest Nebraska, suggest a similar age and depositional environment, probably a transient waterhole in proximity to a fluvial system. Specimens are disarticulated and, in many cases, broken in a pattern indicative of trampling. Weathering, abrasion, and Voorhies Group data suggest that the fauna is primarily autochthonous, with a small allochthonous component, primarily the oreodont artiodactyl Phenacocoelus. Loss of some easily transported elements suggests that the assemblage was winnowed slightly by water transport. Age profiles based on tooth wear suggest a death assemblage dominated by mature, but not aged adults and reflect a mortality pattern intermediate between attritional and catastrophic. A possible scenario for the formation of Morava Ranch Quarry involves drought, during which vulnerable animals expired near waterholes, underwent disarticulation and trampling, and were buried by sediment brought in by wind and periodic flooding.
27670378|Both the timing and nature of early Metazoan evolution remain controversial, with complementary, and sometimes conflicting, evidence from molecular data and fossil occurrences. Exceptionally preserved embryos from the Neoproterozoic and early Phanerozoic remain an important source of direct evidence: fossil embryos of complex organisms at a relatively advanced stage of development provide a test of hypotheses based on comparative embryology and the evolutionary development of living forms. Understanding how these fossils are preserved, and what morphological changes are induced by decay, is essential to interpreting the evidence that they provide for early metazoan evolution. A range of decay experiments was performed on eggs of living arthropods to explore the controls on their mineralization and likely fossilization. Surface mineralization occurred within one month, mainly in calcium carbonate or in a combination of calcium carbonate and calcium phosphate. There was no enhancement of mineralization with increased phosphate or calcium concentrations, or with changing oxic / anoxic conditions, and mineralization occurred both in the absence and presence of an associated carcass. The eggs showed remarkable resistance to decay, indicating that an extended time-period (more than a year) would be available for mineralization and fossilization in some settings. Where sediment was available, it could become attached to the egg surface, replicating the morphology in fashion analogous to mineralization. The interior of the eggs was not mineralized in the experiments. The degree of mineralization was very variable, reflecting conditions both in the natural environment and in the fossil record.
10.2307/3515448|Paleoecology has a dual relationship with sequence stratigraphy. On one hand, body and trace fossils, together with their taphonomy, may provide sensitive indicators of environmental parameters, including depth, substrate consistency, sedimentation rate/turbidity, and benthic oxygenation, which are critical in recognizing and interpreting parasequences and sequences. Fossils may provide some of the best guides to identifying key surfaces and inferring sedimentation dynamics within sequences. Conversely, the sequence stratigraphic paradigm and its corollaries provide a predictive framework within which to examine biotic changes and interpret their probable causes. Such changes include ecological epiboles (short-term, widespread proliferation of normally rare species), outages (absence of normally common species), ecophenotypic changes, and long-term (tens to hundreds of Ka) community replacement. Community replacement should be carefully distinguished from short-term (10 to a few hundred years) ecological succession, rarely resolvable at the scale of single beds, although replacement series through shallowing-to-deepening cycles may display some features that parallel true succession. Replacement in marine communities may be relatively chaotic, but, more commonly in offshore settings, it appears to involve lateral, facies-related shifting of broad biofacies belts, or habitat tracking. Tracking patterns may be nearly symmetrical in areas of low sediment input. However, replacement cycles are commonly asymmetrical. The asymmetries involve both apparent and real effects; deletion of portions of facies transitions at sequence boundaries or condensed sections leads to artifactual asymmetries. Alternatively, in areas proximal to siliciclastic sources, tracking asymmetries arise from the markedly higher sedimentation rates during regressive (late highstand) than transgressive phases. Replacements may also involve immigration of species into a sedimentary basin, either as short-lived events (incursion epiboles) or as wholesale faunal immigrations. The latter will typically follow intervals of extinction/emigration of the indigenous faunas. Both large and small immigration events appear most commonly during highstands (transgressive peaks), which may be associated with altered water-mass properties, and may open migration pathways for nekton and planktonic larvae. At least in isolated basins, allopatric speciation may also occur during fragmentation of habitats associated with regressions. Finally, there are predicted and empirical correlations between sequence-producing sea-level fluctuations and macroevolution. Major extinctions may be associated with habitat reduction during major regressions (lowstands), or with anoxic events during major transgressions. Generally, rising sea level may be correlated with evolutionary radiations. Hence, some ecological-evolutionary unit boundaries may correlate either with sequence boundaries or maximum flooding surfaces. However, in other cases, no correlation has been found between macroevolutionary patterns and sequence stratigraphy. The situation is obviously complex, but sequence stratigraphy at least provides a heuristic framework for developing and testing models of macroevolutionary process.
10.2307/3515465|Recent discovery of small, tridactyl vertebrate tracks in a remote region of northwestern China has expanded the data set for the interpretation of similar trackways elsewhere in the world. Previously, similar tracks reported found in Peru from the Formation des Couches Rouges, were attributed to ornithopod dinosaurs, and then used to reinterpret the age of the section as Late Cretaceous. Similarly, the Chinese trackways were, prior to this study, assigned to the very broad chronological interval Cretaceous through Oligocene. Comparison with the similar ichnofaunas in North America and Europe where the age of the tracks is well constrained to Paleogene, and where the tracks are attributed to odd-toed ungulates (perissodactyls), necessitates careful analysis of the affinity and age of the Chinese and Peruvian trackways. In all regions the track assemblages are mammalian (i.e., of ungulate affinity). The Northern hemisphere tracks maybe be attributed to perissodactyls, but the South American tracks probably represent native ungulate groups such as the Notungulata and Litopterna, that show convergent foot morphology. Even at the high taxonomic level of odd toed ungulate such broad biostratigraphic (palichnostratigraphic) correlations are useful in providing insights into the geologic and tectonic history of terrestrial successions, where the age and faunas are poorly known.
10.2307/3514836|Actualistic laboratory experiments have documented the preservation potential of selected echinoderms and have calibrated rate of decay with weight-loss of chitin in litter bags. The results are integrated with field experiments which quantified decay rate in flowing seawater, intertidal sediments and freshwater mud using identical litter bags. The duration of decay necessary to promote fragmentation upon sampling of some species of holothurians (e.g., Cucumaria miniata) was ten times longer than others (e.g., Leptosynapta clarki). Similarly for asteroids, the amount of decay required for Ludia foliolata and Henricia leviuscula to disaggregate was between two and three times more than that of Pisaster ochraceus. Taphonomic bias is pervasive and may differentiate between organisms of the same class. The response of a carcass to taphonomic processes cannot be accurately predicted solely by comparison with the response of a closely related taxon. Decay rate of chitin was generally slower in freshwater sediments than in marine muddy environments and open seawater. However, variation in rate of decay was substantial. The chitin in some bags decayed twice as quickly as adjacent samples buried for the same length of time. Such pronounced heterogeneity in decay rate produced considerable overlap in decay rate between the different environments. Sediment-induced variation in decay rate is within an order of magnitude. The duration of decay required to promote fragmentation varied little between the two regular echinoids but differed by an order of magnitude between the holothurians. However, it is possible that a greater degree of variation could be recorded if an additional suite of taxa and field localities were included in the experiment.
10.2307/3515587|The biomass within two Early Pennsylvanian (Langsettian [Westphalian A] equivalent) penecontemporaneous swamp communities was sampled quantitatively to obtain an estimate of the taxonomic contribution to each assemblage. Blocks of organic-rich shale were removed from a clastic parting within the Black Creek Coal, and  0.5-m<sup>2</sup> siltstone quadrats were chain-sawed from a clastic swamp community directly above the Bear Creek Coal. Bedding planes were exposed, and the surface areas for each taxon per bedding surface were measured and used as proxies for biomass contribution in each locality. Biomass over a combined area of 5.47 m<sup>2</sup> was assessed for the Black Creek Coal parting; biomass covering an area of 9.70 m<sup>2</sup> was evaluated for the assemblage preserved above the Bear Creek coal. In addition to calculating standard diversity indices, this data set was analyzed using cluster analyses and non-metric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) to differentiate variations within the general flora. Low species diversity characterizes both floras. Diversity indices for both assemblages are very similar, indicating essentially no difference in assemblage composition, despite the difference in edaphic conditions. The Bear Creek Coal wetlands show greater variation in species content, while the mineral-enhanced peat of the Black Creek Coal overlaps this species diversity within a slightly more restricted range of variation. Cluster analysis produced 5 stable clusters, whereas three dimensions of the NMDS analysis provided the best fit to explain the variation among the samples. The dimensions are interpreted as representing abundance of (1) arborescent lycopsids, (2) arborescent and climbing sphenopsids, and (3) pteridosperms. The plant community preserved within the clastic parting of the Black Creek Coal is comparable to that of the community found above the Bear Creek Coal. Hence, vegetation that colonized mineral-substrate soils in Early Pennsylvanian coastal lowlands, whether in peat or non-peat accumulating settings, are very similar. The dominance of pteridosperms in these depositional regimes appears to remain stable throughout the Early and Middle Pennsylvanian and portends community replacements in the Late Westphalian D some 8-10 million years later.
10.2307/3515130|Well-preserved brachiopods from two Paleozoic deposits (Ordovician Richmond Group, Indiana; Devonian Silica Formation, Ohio and Michigan) occasionally contain skeletal fragments embedded in their exterior surfaces. Cross-sections of the shells reveal that the fragments are the remains of brachiopods that cleanly pierce one or both valves of the host specimen. A sharp contact between fragment and host, a coincident film of insoluble residue, and, in some samples, a thin zone of recrystallization, all suggest that the fragments were emplaced via pressure-dissolution during post-burial sediment compaction. Diagenetically emplaced fragments may disintegrate during weathering and leave grooves (pseudo-borings) that resemble the traces of shell-boring organisms. Apparent teeth or rhyncholites found embedded in brachiopod shells may arise from pressure-dissolution between fortuitously associated particles. If pressure-dissolution artifacts, like these, are not distinguished from true biological traces, an overestimation of boring and predation intensities in paleoecological studies may result. Several simple criteria for distinguishing artifacts from traces are proposed, including regular plicate or linear shape of groove, random orientation and lack of host response. This study documents that even in exceptionally well-preserved fossil deposits, pressure-dissolution can be an important taphonomic process.
10.2307/3515265|Floodplain paleosurfaces are depositional surfaces that were exposed on ancient floodplains and haue been preserved in the rock record. Three types of floodplain paleosurfaces have been recognised in the Late Permian Beaufort Group strata of the southwestern Karoo Basin of South Africa. They occur in sedimentary sequences which represent point bar, proximal floodplain, and distal floodplain facies. The distribution of paleosurfaces in the Beaufort strata was ultimately controlled by flash-floods which transported sand out of the large meandering river channels into the floodplains. Preservation of the vertebrate and invertebrate traces was enhanced by a silty-clay veneer that accumulated on the sand surfaces during waning flood. The surfaces were buried without significant modification in parts of the floodplain where water became ponded. These were most commonly in crevasse splay channels, on distal crevasse splay lobes prograding into axial floodbasin lakes and in swales on the downstream portion of point bars. Ichnotaxa that appear to be environmentally specific include arthropod trackways of Umfolozia type on proximal crevasse splays, algal matted textures on distal crevasse splays and large 'septate' traces of Beaconites type on point bar ridges. Trackways of synapsid reptiles are present on many of the paleosurfaces and do not appear to be environmentally specific. Cross-cutting relationships of the ichnofossils and desiccation features are compared with those of modern flash-flood deposits to reconstruct some time constraints on the formation, exposure, and burial of these surfaces.
27670515|The Kirkpatrick Basalt (Jurassic) of South Victoria Land and the Central Transantarctic Mountains, Antarctica, includes sedimentary interbeds representing shallow lakes and ephemeral ponds (some with microbial mat accumulations), deep permanent lakes, and lake-margin areas, especially vegetated wetlands. Fossil assemblages in these sedimentary interbeds are dominated by spinicaudatans (conchostracans), but ostracodes, insect nymphs, actinopterygian fish, and plants are locally abundant. Similar biotas in contrasting contemporaneous deposits allow the taphonomy of these organisms to be compared across lacustrine depositional settings. Spinicaudatan carapaces and fish remains are preserved primarily in calcium phosphate, whereas ostracode carapaces are preserved in calcium carbonate, reflecting the original skeletal composition of the animals. Where microbial mats are present, silica replacement of spinicaudatan carapaces occurs more extensively than in other deposits; microbial processes may have enhanced silicification. This study is the first well-documented example of microbial mat influence on preservation in high-latitude lacustrine systems.
40606515|The direction of mastication revealed by dental microwear was studied in relation to changes in the structure of the masticatory apparatus in the Issiodoromyinae (Rodentia, Mammalia). Our results offer a rare opportunity to assess the order of establishment of the morphological characters that are related to the acquisition of propalinal mastication in an extinct lineage. Elfomys and Pseudoltinomys show cuspidate tooth crowns, a high mandibular condyle, and a significant lateromedial orientation of the masticatory muscles (superficial masseter and internal pterygoid) in association with oblique chewing movements. In contrast, the Issiodoromys lineage is characterized by a flat molar occlusal surface, a low mandibular condyle, and posterior orientation of the masseter and pterygoid associated with slightly oblique to propalinal chewing. We show that striking convergences with some members of Ctenohystrica have occurred in the evolution of the Issiodoromyinae.
41317447|Here I provide critical notes on a multiauthored paper purported to show the absence of a major gap in the Upper Pennsylvanian stratigraphie succession in North America (and, by inference, in northern Western Europe). It is observed that intellectually satisfying explanations for the discontinuities in the North American successions, having recourse to climate-driven alterations, do not take into account that the more continuous succession in northwestern Spain only shows gradual changes in floral composition. Inaccuracies in the use of scientific literature are pointed out.
10.2307/3514848|The phrase "plant formation" denotes the structure, growth habit and general appearance of vegetation, regardless of its exact taxonomic composition. Plant formations such as heath and woodland can now be recognized from the fossil records of both plants and soils. There is a problem, however, with some kinds of polar and desert vegetation and geologically early plant formations on well drained soils. These consist of thalloid plants with only rhizoids, or of plants with only slender rhizomes, runners or fibrous roots, even in non-peaty and non-waterlogged soils. The term "polsterland" has been proposed for formations of well drained soils dominated by lichens or plants lacking true roots. The term "brakeland" has been proposed for vegetation of well drained soils dominated by herbaceous plants with rhizomes and roots not so densely turf-forming as in grasslands. There is some indication from studies of fossil spores and soils that polsterlands and brakelands may have been wide-spread during Late Ordovician to Devonian time, before the advent of trees and other woody plants that heralded the appearance of most kinds of plant formations now found in modern vegetation.
10.2307/3515054|Laminated, organic-rich hemipelagic sediments from the Oligo-Miocene San Gregorio Formation, Baja California Sur, Mexico, contain isolated horizons (n = 41) of Thalassinoides and Gyrolithes burrows which are exclusively associated with gravity-flow event deposits (phosphatic turbidites). The geological evidence suggests that some turbulent sedimentation events entrained live infaunal Crustacea from neritic settings; upon deposition in anaerobic environments, these crustacea penetrated the substrate and reworked substantial volumes of sediment, in an environment which excluded successful larval recruitment. We suggest that the persistence of oxygen-depleted environmental conditions limited the survival time of these transported infaunal dwellers and rendered them doomed pioneers (Fllmi and Grimm, 1990). The mean size (tube width and maximum depth) of trace fossils within each burrowed horizon is strongly unimodal and differs significantly from the burrow sizes found in adjacent burrowed event horizons in the section. Since burrow diameter may be a meaningful proxy for relative size of the burrowing organism, we regard each burrowed horizon as a discrete, size-sorted sample of the infaunal population that was entrained and survived transport to create burrows within a formerly depauperate environment. In addition, the available data permit the placement of temporal constraints upon the duration of a single burrowing episode. Review of the neontological literature indicates that burrowing organisms redeposited by tidal, storm-driven and gravity-driven flows may leave a prominent ichnofossil imprint on marine sediments. In this context, we attribute each conspicuous occurrence of Thalassinoides and Gyrolithes in the San Gregorio Formation to an abrupt event spanning a very short ecological interval. In addition to their direct significance to basinal oxygen ichnofacies and ecostratigraphy, we conclude that allochthonous tracemakers are likely a geologically-common phenomenon.
27670459|Different morphotypes of vertically embedded ammonoid shells are abundant in the 1-km-thick deposits of the Santa Marta Formation, Antarctica, that record the evolution of a deep-water delta system. Vertical shells deposited in water depths well below the theoretical limit imposed by hydrodynamic and hydrostatic analyses are preserved as isolated specimens, dense concentrations associated with abundant wood fragments (pod preservation), or as dense concentrations inside and around large ammonites (sheltered preservation). Taphonomic analysis indicates that (1) vertical shell orientation is primary; (2) postburial reworking was minimum or absent, as indicated by consistent shell orientation parallel to regional paleocurrents and complete preservation of fragile shells with phragmocones filled with drusy calcite; and (3) vertical orientation is not biased towards a preferred morphotype. Rapid sedimentation, including deposition from high- and low-density currents, tempestites, and weak bottom currents carrying a dense suspension of ammonoid shells and wood fragments, was one of the main factors controlling the vertical preservation below the limits imposed by theoretical hydrostatic analyses. Another important factor was the plugging of the siphuncular tube with clay particles during transportation. The clay plug was stiff enough to resist the ambient hydrostatic pressure, avoiding or delaying the waterlogging of the phragmocone.
27670493|A large dinosaur bone bed has been investigated in the Udurchukan Formation (?late Maastrichtian) at Blagoveschensk, Far Eastern Russia. The observed mixture of unstratified fine and coarse sediments in the bone bed is typical for sediment-gravity-flow deposits. It is postulated that sediment gravity flows, originating from the uplifted areas at the borders of the Zeya-Bureya Basin, reworked the dinosaur bones and teeth as a monodominant bone bed. Fossils of the lambeosaurine Amurosaurus riabinini form >90% of the recovered material. The low number of associated skeletal elements at Blagoveschensk indicates that the carcasses were disarticulated well before reworking. Although shed theropod teeth have been found in the bone bed, <2% of the bones exhibit potential tooth marks; scavenging activity was therefore limited, or scavengers had an abundance of prey at hand and did not have to actively seek out bones for nutrients. Perthotaxic features are very rare on the bones, implying that they were not exposed subaerially for any significant length of time before reworking and burial. The underrepresentation of light skeletal elements, the dislocation of the dental batteries, and the numerous fractured long bones suggest that most of the fossils were reworked. The random orientation of the elements might indicate a sudden end to transport before stability could be reached. The size-frequency distributions of the femur, tibia, humerus, and dentary elements reveal an overrepresentation of late juveniles and small subadult specimens, indicative of an attritional death profile for the Amurosaurus fossil assemblage. It is tentatively postulated that the absence of fossils attributable to nestling or early juvenile individuals indicates that younger animals were segregated from adults and could join the herd only when they reached half of the adult size.
27670576|The Bissekty Formation, exposed on the Dzharakuduk escarpment (Kyzylkum Desert) in Uzbekistan, contains the richest and most abundant Turonian terrestrial fauna known from Eurasia. This study utilizes ordination analyses to identify spatial or temporal patterns (i.e., biofacies) in the distribution of spatially averaged skeletal elements (i.e., mix of unequivocally marine faunal elements with terrestrial ones) within the laterally extensive intraformational conglomerates (IFCs) of the Bissekty Formation. Ordination analyses were used to determine similarities among the IFCs based on their absolute taxonomic abundance and presence or absence. To determine the primary factor(s) driving the ordination pattern, taxonomic abundance, richness, environmental restrictions (aquatic, semi-aquatic, and terrestrial), and skeletal element size were examined. Relative Srensen and Srensen in combination with Euclidean and city block metrics were used in the analysis and results were consistent across methodologies. Ordination patterns were driven by aquatic taxa, which were dominated in abundance and richness by marine and brackish-tolerant taxa. By mapping the abundance of terrestrial, semi-aquatic, and aquatic taxa of individual IFCs onto ordination space, the relative position of the coastline with reference to the Dzharakuduk escarpment during the deposition of the Bissekty Formation can be inferred. These results indicate that ordination analyses are useful tools for examining taphonomically biased samples and should be utilized more frequently in vertebrate studies.
10.2307/3515258|Overgrowth relationships in the fossil record of encrusting organisms on marine hard substrata have been used to infer success in competitive interactions, particularly for modular organisms such as colonial invertebrates and coralline algae. However, this interpretation has been questioned to varying extent-even by those who have used the procedure-because of the possibility that any individual observation may represent growth over a senescent organism or dead skeletal remains. Where sufficient numbers of overgrowth relationships are available to demonstrate that the proportions of overgrowths between two modular taxa are not essentially equal, the competitive superiority of the more frequently overgrowing taxon should be accepted. The degree of success of the more frequently overgrowing taxon was at least as great as seen in the fossil record and was probably substantially greater, depending upon the percent of bare surface on the substratum.
3515796|This study details occurrences of Teredolites ichnocoenoses from modern bay-margin settings in Willapa Bay, Washington. In particular, the paper scrutinizes in situ log-grounds from two intertidal zones situated immediately seaward of low-lying, supratidal, forested marshlands that are fed by small streams. Vestiges of remnant marshes and streams are preserved on intertidal flats as in-situ roots, broken stumps, strewn logs, abundant organic detritus, and organic sandy mud. Xylic material and organic sediment were deposited in the supratidal marshes: tide and wave processes truncated the swamps, exposing in situ tree-root networks and the lowermost supratidal sediments. Stream and swamp deposits overlie and incise older Pleistocene strata. Both units are overlain by discontinuous, modern intertidal deposits. The intertidally exposed stumps and logs support a diverse community of animal and plant life. Boring organisms, encrusters, and refugium seekers are found on and within the xylic substrates. Some encrusting animals and all of the boring fauna produce traces that are comparable to ichnofossils reported by palichnologists. Wood-boring traces reported in this study are similar morphologically to the ichnogenera Caulostrepsis, Entobia, Meandropolydora, Psilonichnus, Rogerella, Teredolites, Thalassinoides, and Trypanites. Most of these ichnogenera have not been reported from rock-record examples of the Teredolites ichnofacies. The stratigraphic and environmental significance of the reported (modern) locales is consistent with previous studies that associate Teredolites ichnofacies with base-level rise in marginal-marine environments. At Willapa Bay, bored xylic media form a coeval surface with adjacent, burrowed firmgrounds as well as softgrounds.
10.2307/3514686|Comparative taphonomy, the study of differential fossil preservation, includes aspects of biostratinomy and early diagenesis that can be related to marine sedimentary environments. Depending upon their morphologies, organic skeletons are variably subject to reorientation, disarticulation, fragmentation, and corrasion. The differential effects of these processes on particular types of skeletal remains in different facies are related to variations in rates and modes of burial, and the nature and intensity of environmental energy. The extent of shell dissolution and the types of early diagenetic fillings or coatings on shells relate both to sedimentation rates and to seafloor geochemistry. Using a combination of biostratinomic and early diagenetic phenomena, it is possible to recognize a series of taphonomic facies (or taphofacies) within sedimentary sequences. Interpretation of taphofacies elucidates many aspects of ancient sedimentary environments which are otherwise unrecognizable. Finally, comparative taphonomy provides an unequivocal means for recognition of rapid, episodic deposition. Detailed taphonomic analysis of shallow-marine rocks proves that many sequences are comprised largely of episodic deposits. In turn, certain well-characterized event beds with unique taphonomic histories may provide easily mapped and isochronous markers for local correlation and basin analysis.
10.2307/3514993|Clam and mussel assemblages associated with petroleum seepage on the Louisiana continental slope form the only substantial shell accumulations below storm wave base on the northwestern Gulf of Mexico shelf and slope. Four distinct biofacies are present at the seeps, dominated respectively by mussels, lucinid clams, vesicomyid clams and tubeworms. Each primary seep site is typically composed of a series of not necessarily contiguous, autochthonous beds dominated by one biofacies. Mussels and tubeworms often co-occur, but neither normally co-occur with lucinid or vesicomyid clams. Lucinid and vesicomyid clam beds have the best chance of preservation. The vesicomyids produce a two-dimensional shell pavement underlain in some areas by subsurface lucinids: the lucinid beds are normally thicker, more massive shell beds. Taphonomic parameters differ significantly within topographically and sedimentologically equivalent areas, both on the surface and in the subsurface, even in adjacent samples. Local variability in taphonomic characteristics may be a general feature of autochthonous, spatially time-averaged assemblages. Despite essentially undisturbed accumulation in quiet water below storm wave base, concavity ratios rarely differ from 1:1 and frequency of articulation may be low. Dominantly concave-up valves previously reported in quiet water may result from man's fishing activities. Significant variability in shell orientation, frequency of articulation and concavity ratio between adjacent samples indicates that many individual stratigraphically-equivalent samples should be used in any taphofacies analysis of assemblages formed in low-energy environments. Lucinid beds which form below the sediment surface and vesicomyid beds which form on the sediment surface differed significantly in shell orientation and articulation frequency. Assemblages forming below storm wave base in low-energy environments may comprise a wide variety of taphofacies depending upon whether formation occurs primarily beneath the sediment surface or on the sediment surface, despite contemporaneous formation under similar environmental conditions.
10.2307/3515427|Mid-Pleistocene strata in the Castlecliff section of New Zealand show a cyclic alternation of shoreline to shelf lithofacies. A typical cycle is bounded by erosional disconformities, and shows a threefold subdivision. The lower unit is characterized by a basal cross-bedded shell-rich gravel, which is overlain by shoreline-nearshore siltstones, and/or sandstones. The middle unit is disconformity bounded, and is characterized by condensed shellbed facies deposited in terrigenous, sediment starved, inner-shelf settings. The upper unit comprises relatively thick and monotonous successions of shelf siltstone. Castlecliff cycles are interpreted as depositional sequences, driven by glacio-eustatic sea-level fluctuation. The component facies successions represent transgressive systems tracts (TST), mid-cycle condensed shellbeds (MCS), and highstand systems tracts (HST), respectively. Six Castlecliffian foraminiferal associations have been defined, and their paleodepth significance determined by uniformitarian comparison with modern New Zealand faunas. The shallowest (shoreface-innermost shelf) faunas are confined to TST successions, while the deepest faunas (outer inner-shelf) are confined to HST successions. The stratigraphic position of maximum paleodepth, and therefore the position of the conceptual maximum flooding surface (MFS), varies. Sequences in which the maximum paleodepth occurs within the mid-cycle condensed shellbed closely correspond to ideal sequence models, in which conditions of maximum sediment starvation coincide with maximum paleodepth. Sequences showing maximum paleodepths in HST shelf siltstones indicate that the MFS may not necessarily be coincident with mid-cycle condensed facies or their associated disconformities. Sequences with maximum foraminiferal paleodepths spanning some or all of MCS-HST successions indicate that the MFS may be represented as an interval rather than a specific disconformity or stratal surface. These results suggest that the MFS concept, as a means to separate TST from HST strata, may be of little use in shoreline inner-shelf paleogeographic settings.
10.2307/3514985|Fine-grained, inter-reef carbonates of the Silurian (Wenlockian) Racine Formation, Milwaukee County, Wisconsin, formed in a generally quiet-water environment below wave base. These strata preserve a level-bottom community which contains 27 guilds and 89 species of skeletal macrofauna. No sedimentary transport of the fauna is apparent, but breakage of shells by predation and reorientation and dispersal of skeletal material by bioturbation are significant taphonomic features. Most suspension-feeding guilds are represented by epifaunal sponges, corals, bryozoans, brachiopods, conocardiids, cornulitids and annelids which occupied a tier from 0 to 2 cm above the bottom. This tier was also occupied by a vagile fauna of gastropods and trilobites. Most skeletal material, as determined by point count, was produced by three guilds of suspension-feeding crinozoans which occupied two higher tiers, from 2 to 6 cm and 6 to 25 cm above the bottom. Soft-bodied burrowers included suspension-feeding worms which fed at the sediment surface and extended to at least 2 cm depth, and a lower tier of deposit feeding worms which extended to about 10 cm depth. Three guilds of cephalopods represent predators within the community. The brachiopod component of this community represents a typical Silurian "Dicoelosia community," a type of Silurian assemblage which has been previously characterized as an ecologically simple, brachiopod-dominated fauna. Detailed results from the Racine study suggest that many so-called Silurian brachiopod communities were actually tiered, high-diversity communities dominated by crinozoans.
40960978|Stable isotope studies were carried out on shells of reef-dwelling brachiopods and oysters to evaluate the impact of climate changes on coral communities during the Oxfordian (Late Jurassic) in western Europe and northwestern Africa. Low to medium diversities observed in coral associations in the pioneering and terminal reef phases correlate well with average seawater paleotemperatures of < 20.3 C. The reef climax coincides with optimum environmental conditions, reflected by a high coral diversity and an average seawater temperature between 22 and 30 C. The results of this study show that water temperatures set the physiological limits for the distribution of corals and coral reefs in Oxfordian time.
27670420|Fine-scale paleocommunity dynamics were studied in a short ( 16 m) section in the Middle Miocene (Badenian Stage) of the Central Paratethys, which consists of siliciclastic, pelitic, and sandy-to-gravely shallow-water deposits. Two basal, coarsening- and shallowing-upward parasequences of a late highstand systems tract are separated by a third-order sequence boundary from the deepening-upward basal part of a transgressive systems tract at the top of the section. Benthic faunas in this succession are primarily autochthonous and storm-influenced, level-bottom assemblages, but a distinct oyster-vermetid boundstone occurs near the base of the transgressive systems tract. Additionally, three tempestitic shell beds were included, which were found out of sequence in an associated basinal setting; their faunal content relates them closely to the fine-grained deepest parts of the transgressive systems tract. Ordination of species and samples using detrended correspondence analysis and analysis of similarity suggest that two basic benthic assemblages can be distinguished. The oyster-vermetid boundstone is tied to a unique set of environmental conditions and indicates a major environmental change at the sequence boundary. The faunal assemblage in the boundstone shows a weak gradient into the pelitic (deeper and quiet-water) level-bottom assemblage, which in turn is characterized by strong overlaps with the fauna of sandy (shallower and more agitated) habitats. Therefore it is concluded that the benthic assemblages in the studied section belong to the same basic metacommunity, which was not seriously affected by the strong facies changes at the sequence boundary and at the flooding surfaces. Moreover, the species in the studied benthic assemblages reacted to changes in the environment by habitat tracking.
27670550|Large theropod tracks have previously been attributed to Tyrannosaurus rex. Most identifications however, have not been supported by either clear comparison with T. rex osteology or the stratigraphic position of the track. There is a conspicuous absence of tracks in the Upper Cretaceous (Maastrichtian) Hell Creek, Lance, Scollard, Frenchman, and Denver Formations (Lancian, North American Land Mammal Age), where T. rex body fossils have been found. A large tridactyl track is described here from the Hell Creek Formation of Carter County, Montana, United States. This find constitutes the first record of a large theropod track from the Hell Creek Formation, which could have potentially been made by T. rex or another large theropod, based on the track morphology and stratigraphic position.
10.2307/3514786|Chaetetids, extinct demosponges, were common frame-builders in small reef mounds during the Middle Carboniferous. Chaetetids from the Coal City Limestone Member (Pawnee Limestone, Middle Pennsylvanian) in Appanoose County, Iowa, contain the remains of a cryptic community attached to the undersurfaces of the colonies. Identified coelobites include the attached brachiopods Cooperina sp., Teguliferina sp., Heteralosia sp., and Composita sp.; the encrusting bryozoans Fistulipora sp. and Metelipora sp.; the holdfasts of fenestrate/ramose bryozoans; the worm Spirorbis sp.; the rugose coral Lophophyllidium sp.; the foraminiferid Tetrataxis; and the boring traces Caulostrepsis and Rogerella/Zapfella. Small echinoid plates and spines are associated with some of these cavities suggesting that they may have also lived there. Cross-cutting relationships reveal no clear pattern of encrustation by these cryptic dwellers.
10.2307/3515300|The Upper Cambrian Maynardville Limestone (Conasauga Group) and the lower Copper Ridge Dolomite (Knox Group) of the southern Appalachians contain a variety of microbial carbonate deposits, such as stratiform (cryptalgal laminates), laterally linked hemispheroidal (LLH), vertically stacked hemispheroidal (SH), columnar, and digitate stromatolites, as well as thrombolites. Digitate stromatolites and thrombolites, in most cases, do not exhibit evidence of significant dolomitization, even though they are commonly embedded within completely dolomitized deposits. These microbial deposits formed primarily by calcification of cyanobacteria in lower intertidal and upper subtidal environments, which were not primary sites for dolomitization. Early diagenetic calcification of cyanobacteria additionally reduced the susceptibility of these deposits to dolomitization. Extensively dolomitized microbial deposits (LLH, SH, and columnar stromatolites, and most of stratiform stromatolite laminae) formed primarily by the trapping of sediment in supratidal and intertidal environments on arid to semi-arid tidal flats. Pervasive syndepositional calcification of cyanobacteria may have been precluded by conditions of periodic emergence, hypersalinity, and the presence of fine-grained sediment serving as competing sites for carbonate mineral nucleation. Extensive dolomitization altered these peritidal carbonate sediments early in their diagenetic history (penecontemporaneous or syngenetic dolomitization). The presence of both calcitic and dolomitic laminae is indicative of a combination of trapping and calcification for the formation of stratiform stromatolites. The formation of Upper Cambrian microbial deposits was primarily controlled by the conditions within the environments of deposition, but was also biotically influenced to some degree.
10.2307/3514590|A number of recent studies cast doubt on the reliability of using size-frequency distributions of fossil species for inferring ecological age-survivorship curves, fossil community structure, and paleoenvironments. Survivorship curves for fossil taxa are really post-larval size-survivorship curves. Data are lacking for the normally enormous mortalities that occur during larval stages. Such curves represent the effects of differential taphonomy upon various size classes. Before dismissing the paleoecological application of ecological survivorship curving, the patterns of size-frequency distributions of very large and spatially disparate populations of extant species should be explored. Emphasis to date has been upon temporal,not spatial, averaging in the generation of fossil assemblages. We provide size-survivorship and reconstructed age-survivorship curves on over 2.5 million live individuals of the infaunal bivalve Mya arenaria from 1,093 collecting sites at 15 locations within four estuaries from eastern Massachusetts. A significant difference was found among the cohort structures of post-larval M. arenaria from the four estuaries, even though environmental settings were similar. A summary cohort curve was constructed that may be analogous to very extensive (but perhaps unlikely) spatial averaging in the generation of a fossil assemblage. The size-survivorship curves constructed for the four estuaries and for the 15 locations exhibit considerable variation from the summary curve. This supports the contention that size-survivorship data gleaned from ecological contexts should only be applied to the paleoecological record with extreme caution.
10.2307/3514756|Despite a wealth of literature on the antics and biology of hermit crabs, the stratinomic significance of these animals has scarcely been examined. Not only are the crabs important in ecology and paleoecology, but they are also instrumental in determining the condition and final burial sites of innumerable mollusc shells. The structure of molluscan taphocoenoses is altered thereby and is subject to misinterpretation in the fossil record. Hermit crabs in Georgia and other coastal settings demonstrate marked preferences for certain types of gastropod shells. Although specific shell selections are dictated partly by the diversity and abundance of available shells and may vary from one crab population to another, the invariable result is (1) a concentration of environmentally mixed shells within the crab population and (2) a modification of detrital shell assemblages otherwise governed by physical processes. Comparable biases may have been introduced as long ago as the Early Jurassic, when paguroid crabs appeared.
10.2307/3515599|Helicoplacoids are Early Cambrian echinoderms with triradiate ambulacra that are covered by helically-arranged columns of calcite plates. They are abundant only in shales of the Middle Member of the Lower Cambrian Poleta Formation (Atdabanian) at Westgard Pass in the White-Inyo Mountains of California. To identify and understand the unique taphonomic conditions that led to their preservation, 146 helicoplacoid specimens were examined along with the rocks in which they are preserved. Considering their loosely articulated skeletal construction, together with their common occurrence at the base of cm-scale graded beds, helicoplacoids most likely were preserved during obrution events. A majority (69%) of helicoplacoid specimens are partially disarticulated, probably indicating that most helicoplacoids underwent some combination of pre-burial and post-burial decay. Because most (73%) helicoplacoid specimens are preserved on the same bedding plane as at least one other individual, and many (39%) are preserved on bedding planes containing at least 10 individuals, it appears that helicoplacoids were gregarious and frequently were preserved in mass mortality obrution deposits. Low levels of bioturbation, possible microbial stabilization of the sediment, a shallow redox boundary, and a normally calm depositional environment capable of preserving obrution deposits are all factors that aided in the preservation of helicoplacoids. Additionally, the presence of helicoplacoids in several facies of the Middle Member of the Poleta Formation indicates that they lived in a wider range of paleoenvironments than those represented by the shales, where they are found most commonly. The exceptional preservation of helicoplacoids, therefore, is most likely narrowly restricted stratigraphically and geographically because the proper balance of energy regimes, together with the factors mentioned above, was achieved only rarely during the Early Cambrian, not because helicoplacoids were restricted to living in one paleoenvironment.
40606458|An Early Jurassic tetrapod tracksite in the upper Elliot Formation at Moyeni, southern Lesotho, displays a variety of trackways attributed to large-and medium-sized theropod (Neotrisauropus-type) and ornithischian (Moyenisauropus-type) dinosaurs, basal crurotarsal archosaurs (chirotheroid-type), and a short-legged basal tetrapod (Episcopopus type). The tracks are on a low-angle pointbar and are buried with loessic floodplain fine-grained sediment. Calcic paleosols indicate a warm semiarid climate. Many of the footprints were imprinted through an algal mat in a water-margin setting. Convergence of several trackways toward a single point suggests repeated visits to drink or cross the river. One of the two large Moyenisauropus-type trackways has a narrow gauge that suggests an upright, parasagittal gait, whereas the other shows changes in gauge width, stance, and posture as it proceeded up the pointbar slope. At least three resting traces with manus, metatarsal, and tail impressions attributable to the Moyenisauropus-type ornithischian are also preserved. Discovery of two manus-pes pairs of chirotheroid-type footprints in the Moyeni section highlights a mismatch between the bodyfossil and trace-fossil records. Chirotheroid tracks are generally thought to be restricted to the Triassic, and their discovery at the Moyeni tracksite compounds the problem of where to place the Triassic-Jurassic boundary in this succession. Three possible scenarios could explain the occurrence of chirotheroid-type tracks at Moyeni: (1) the tracksite is Late Triassic in age; (2) the chirotheroid tracks were made by archosaurs other than basal crurotarsans; (3) the tracks are correctly identified and the age of the Moyeni section is correctly assigned, but the inferred range of chirotheroid-type tracks is incorrect. We suggest that the latter two are the most likely explanations.
27670463|Numerous paleocommunity studies of marine ecosystems have demonstrated that water depth was the primary factor structuring paleocommunities. In contrast, many ecological studies find other factors play a greater role in delineating communities; this difference in results may be owing to the spatiotemporal scale at which the study is performed. To explore this hypothesis, the present study examines a set of Imperial Formation (Pliocene, California) paleocommunities at a scale potentially fine enough to exclude depth as a control over the communities, thus facilitating recognition of fine-scale ecological and environmental processes operating at this scale. Twenty-six taxa from 21 samples were collected in situ from an 8.5-m-thick interval within a 0.32 km2 area. Cluster, Bray-Curtis (polar) ordination, and detrended correspondence analyses were used to infer community structure. Cluster and ordination analyses produced similar results independent of choice of distance measure. To test whether depth would be the primary control, even at fine scales, the scores from the first ordination axis for each taxon were compared with their modern mean depth; no strong correlation exists between depth and ordination scores. Cluster and ordination results indicate that life mode (as determined by modern relatives) and to a lesser extent, grain size, were the primary factors influencing paleocommunity structure at this scale. Bivalve taxa were grouped by life mode: quasi-infaunal, shallow-burrowing infaunal, byssate, and cemented. Relative to paleoecological studies conducted on much broader spatiotemporal scales, this study highlights the potential utility of embedding fine-scale studies within broader-scale studies to capture and investigate additional sources of ecological and environmental variation.
10.2307/3515429|Dinosaur fossils found in July, 1995, near Dariv, western Mongolia, represent the first dinosaurs of Jurassic age described from Mongolia. The fossils derive from at least three types of dinosaurs, and include the right foot of a sauropod tentatively identified as Mamenchisaurus sp. The dinosaur fossils occur in Upper Jurassic floodplain deposits that accumulated in a seasonally wet, collisional foreland basin just prior to an episode of uplift of the ancestral Altai Range in latest Jurassic time.
10.2307/3515306|Macrofossil associations have proved to be vital aids for resolving the sequence architecture of Castlecliff cyclothems (5th and 6th order, mid-Pleistocene depositional sequences) because of a close correlation between particular faunal associations and systems tract character. Associations from transgressive systems tracts are typically derived from mixed and transported assemblages, which, in turn, commonly occur within cross-bedded units (Type A shell-beds) at the base of Castlecliff sequences. These associations commonly represent reworked sandy shoreface and estuarine paleocommunities that are not otherwise preserved in the Castlecliff section. Associations from mid-cycle condensed shellbeds (Type B shellbeds) comprise well-preserved, near-situ, dispersed to closely-packed macro-fossil assemblages in mud-rich facies. These faunas represent inner to middle shelf, shell-ground to shelly soft-ground paleocommunities. Associations from highstand systems tracts also comprise well-preserved near-situ faunas. These assemblages, however, are variably dispersed within shelf siltstones and silty fine sandstones, and represent muddy soft-ground paleocommunities. Abrupt shifts in taxonomic composition and taphonomic attributes occur across systems-tract bounding disconformities. The nature of these changes, measured against an "idealised continuum" of macrofossil associations, is used to gauge the magnitude of these disconformities. This approach is especially useful in determining the nature of mid-cycle disconformities in Castlecliff sequences, which are difficult to evaluate from lithofacies characteristics alone.
10.2307/3515236|Corals growing on the flanks of Banda Api, Indonesia, contain records of volcanic activity which occurred in May, 1988. Ashfall killed portions of some massive coral colonies (Porites lobata), resulting in the formation of death surfaces. These surfaces were preferential sites for extensive bioerosion and incorporation of volcanic ash into underlying skeletal pores. Subsequent coral regeneration resulted in the preservation of death/regrowth surfaces overlying trapped volcanic ash. An orange-colored iron-rich chemical precipitate is preserved in the skeletons of corals which survived the volcanic event. These distinct orange bands are contemporaneous with the death/ regrowth surfaces. The iron banding is interpreted as being a product of hydrothermal activity which accompanied volcanism. X-radiographs of coral skeletons confirm that the timing of formation of both the death surfaces and the orange banding is coincident with the 1988 eruption. The features preserved in these corals may be valuable proxy indicators of volcanic events in analogous recent and ancient environments.
10.2307/3514691|Every living organism represents a potential fossil, although only a few are ever successfully fossilized. Taphonomic studies should explain episodes of both fossilization and of non-fossilization. This paper examines some of the taphonomic variables that may bias the arthropod fossil record. The short-term preservation potential of the modern carid shrimp, Pandalus danae, was studied in a variety of laboratory and field settings. Freshly killed specimens were buried at two intertidal localities on San Juan Island, Puget Sound, Washington. Carcasses were buried at depths of 5-20 cm for periods of one day to three weeks. Destruction by scavengers (crabs?) was the probable primary cause of carcass destruction. Further breakdown was caused by bacterial decomposition and disturbance by burrowing infauna. Shrimp remains were placed in a series of glass jars in the laboratory. Jars differed in the presence and kind of enclosed sediment and in the degree of aeration. Decomposition destroyed nearly all soft tissues within a period of two weeks. The cuticle became extremely soft, resulting in loss of physical integrity of the remains. Differences between oxic and anoxic decomposition were minor. These results, along with a consideration of the biological, physical, and chemical effects of bioturbation, suggest that disturbance by scavengers or burrowing infauna is a major factor in the destruction of buried arthropod remains. The absence or inhibition of bioturbation may be a necessary condition for arthropod preservation. The preservation potential of arthropods, and of other soft-bodied forms, may have declined since the Paleozoic.
10.2307/3515074|The deep-sea floor is traditionally perceived as a habitat where low food flux and sluggish bottom currents force life to proceed at slow, steady rates. In this view, benthic community structure is controlled by equilibrium processes, such as extreme levels of habitat partitioning, made possible by remarkable ecosystem stability. A number of recent discoveries indicate, however, that endogenous disturbances may be relatively frequent, and that pulses of food reach the seafloor from the upper ocean. The biological processes driven by these events can be highly variable in space and time, exhibiting disequilibrium dynamics. I briefly review four examples of pulsed events that "punctuate" the apparent "equilibrium" of the deep-sea floor: biogenic mound building, benthic "storms," pulses of phytodetritus, and whale falls. Such punctuational events may substantially influence processes of modern and past ecological significance, including (1) maintenance of macrofaunal diversity and population structure, (2) deposit-feeder-microbe interactions and associated trace production, and (3) dispersal and biogeography of chemosynthetic communities at the deep-sea floor.
40865411|Palynological investigations of the mid-Cretaceous, delta-influenced Malha Formation and superjacent transgressive Galala Formation exposed at Gebel El Minshera, north Sinai, Egypt, have yielded a sparse but biostratigraphically useful record of spores, pollen, and rare dinoflagellate cysts. A representative of the pollen genus Tricolporites, recovered 18 m above the base of the Malha Formation, is post-Aptian in age. An interval comprising the upper Malha Formation and lower Galala Formation is dated as middle Albian/middle Cenomanian based on the occurrence of Elaterosporites klaszii at the base and Afropollis jardinus at the top.A palynoflora from the upper Malha Formation, which includes ephedroids as well as Elaterosporites, has affinities with the Albian-Cenomanian Elaterates Province. The presence of palynomorphs associated with active fluvio-deltaic settings supports a proximal deltaic environment for the deposition of the Malha Formation, with the superjacent Galala Formation representing a subsequent marine flooding of the delta. A distinctive monospecific assemblage of the dinoflagellate cyst Subtilisphaera senegalensis in the upper part (Cenomanian) of the Galala Formation reflects an ecologically stressed, marginal-marine environment. This assemblage constitutes the first record of the mid-Cretaceous Subtilisphaera ecozone in Egypt and indeed east of Morocco, and in deposits as young as Cenomanian. The Malha and lowermost Galala Formations are characterized by type IIIVI kerogen, which is gas prone but having little potential to produce hydrocarbons. Spore-pollen color indicates thermal maturity at the transitional to over-mature level, which is anomalously high when compared with equivalent deposits in the region.
10.2307/3515057|A sequence of strata containing 24 or more ichnogenera was investigated along the western outcrop margin of the Breathitt Formation in eastern Kentucky. Four facies were delineated within the study interval. Dark shales of the Carbonaceous Shale Facies (CSF) exhibit a low-diversity/low-abundance ichnofossil assemblage dominated by small Conostichus, Planolites, and Thalassinoides. Some interbedded siltstones exhibit greater diversity with Lockeia, Paleophycus, Monocraterion, and Rhabdoglyphus. The CSF is truncated by the Bioturbated Heterolithic Facies (BHF), consisting of bioturbated sandstones with robust Asterosoma, Conostichus, and Rosselia, siltstones and gray shales with abundant Planolites and Teichichnus, and non-bioturbated sideritic claystones. The BHF is truncated by the Interbedded Sandstone and Shale Facies (ISF), which occurs as two sheet-form tongues of ripple-bedded sandstone and shale with variable-diversity and variable-abundance trace fossils, including Asterosoma, Curvolithus, Helminthoida, Helminthopsis, Lockeia, Monocraterion, Planolites, Olivellites, Rosselia, and Scolicia. The ISF is truncated by the Ripple Bedded Sandstone Facies (RSF), which consists of two ripple-dominated channel fills. Bedding within parts of the fills is crudely rhythmic; some repetitive form sets consist of 10 to 12 laminae couplets. Trace fossils are rare in the channel fills, but Beaconichnus, arthropod resting traces, and arthropod rake marks occur. Flaser, wavy, and lenticular bedding, bi- to polymodal current orientations, local rhythmic sedimentation, and bioturbation indicate that the facies were deposited in a shallow marine- to brackish-water tidal setting with minimal wave reworking. Changes in trace fossil abundance, diversity, and size were caused by changes in current velocity and possibly salinity. Scour-filling tidal facies with indications of salinity changes and a mixed Cruziana-Skolithos Ichnofacies are interpreted to represent estuarine infilling. The fill sequence was controlled by the accomodation space of the estuary and lateral shifting channels. Limited accomodation space caused repetitive scouring of older fill facies and incisement of multiple channels.
3515835|The effects of unidirectional currents on the behavior of empty shells of the articulate brachiopod Terebratalia transversa were studied both in a laboratory flume and in a tidal-channel environment. Shells were tested on a hard, high-friction surface in the flume and on unconsolidated, well-sorted sands both in the flume and in the field. The velocity of the current competent to move terebratuloid shells is controlled by the starting orientation of the shell and is not strongly related to size or shape within the range of shells tested. Most shells assumed a preferred final orientation, both in the laboratory and field, with the anterior-posterior axis parallel to the current, ventral valve up, and pedicle opening facing up-current. Brachiopod shells that achieved hydrodynamically stable positions tended to be transported mainly by tumbling, with the anterior-posterior axis parallel to the current direction. Observations of shells on natural, current-swept sand substrates indicate that scour marks are formed around the up-current side of the brachiopod, with the scoured sediment deposited as a wedge down current from the shell. If scour continues, the brachiopod may slide down into the up-current depression, assuming variable inclinations. If the shell slides sufficiently far down into the depression, the solenoidal vortex that generates the scour may weaken or fail. Sediment carried in the bedload then buries the shell.
10.2307/3515037|Reef-like masses of agglutinated sand tubes constructed by sabellariid polychaetes in New Zealand and elsewhere provide a possible modern analogue for the Skolithos Ichnofacies and for Lower Paleozoic "Piperock" ichnofabric. Contrary to most ichnologic interpretations of "piperock," this modern analogue does not involve infaunal burrowing, but rather it results from epifaunal tubebuilding activity.
3515692|Shallow-marine, siliciclastic depositional systems are dominated by physical sedimentary processes, with penecontemporaneous cementation playing only a minor role in sediment dynamics. For this reason, microbial mats rarely form stromatolites in siliciclastic environments; instead, mats are preserved as wrinkle structures on bedding surfaces. Microbial mat signatures should be widespread in siliciclastic rocks deposited before the Cambrian Period; however, siliciclastic shelf successions of the upper Neoproterozoic Nudaus Formation, Nama Group, Namibia, contain only sparsely distributed wrinkle structures. The facies distribution of observed structures reflects the superposition of a taphonomic window of mat preservation on the ecological window of mat development. Mat colonization is favored by clean, fine-grained, translucent quartz sands deposited at sites where hydrodynamic flow is sufficient to sweep mud from mat surfaces but insufficient to erode biostabilized laminae. During periods of reduced water agitation, microbial baffling, trapping, and binding entrain quartz grains into mat fabrics, increasing the thickness of the living mat layer. Mat preservation is facilitated by subsequent sedimentary events that bury the microbial structures without causing erosional destruction. Pressure originating from sediment loading forms molds and casts at bedding planes, inducing the formation of wrinkle structures. In storm-influenced shelf successions of the Nudaus Formation, wrinkle structures are restricted to quartz-rich fine sandstone beds, 2-20 cm thick, that alternate with thin interlayers of sandy mud- or siltstones. Such a lithological facies developed only sporadically on the Nudaus shelf, but is common in shallow-marine siliciclastic rocks of older Neoproterozoic age exposed in the Naukluft Nappe Complex. The observed relationship between sedimentary environment and microbial mat preservation can be observed in other Proterozoic and Phanerozoic siliciclastic rocks, as well as in modern environments. This facies dependence provides a paleoenvironmental and taphonomic framework within which investigations of secular change in mat abundance must be rooted. Understanding the physical sedimentary parameters that control the formation and preservation of microbial structures in siliciclastic regimes can facilitate exploration for biological signatures in early sedimentary rocks on Earth or other planets.
10.2307/3515078|Bathyal gastropods, characteristic of island arc settings, are commonly represented in Cenozoic deposits. They provide an excellent basis for paleoecological and paleoenvironmental studies of the deepsea. We predict the following based on a review of the Cenozoic literature and our examination of deepsea gastropods (>200 m): 1) Taphonomic processes affecting gastropod shells may be comparable between bathyal zones and shallow water environments, 2) death assemblages from bathyal habitats may be subject to the same time-averaging processes (e.g., census and within-habitat time-averaging) as in shallower water, and 3) complex ecological interactions, such as predation and epiand endobiosis can commonly affect large, deepsea gastropods (e.g., the archaeogastropods, Bathybembix and Gaza). Contrary to previous reports for small, deepsea gastropods, we found that robust shells of Bathybembix (>32 mm in height) and delicate shells of Gaza (>23 mm in height) sustain high amounts of major shell repair (frequency of repair for Gaza: 0.68-0.91; Bathybembix: 0.28-1.00). Preservation potential of epibionts may be low, while endobionts may be rare to common on modern deepsea gastropods. If biodiversity of modern and fossil deepsea communities is to be addressed, evidence of predation and epiand endobiosis must also be studied. They provide important, yet overlooked, aspects for understanding modern and fossil communities on and within shelly substrates and ecological interactions (e.g., predation and/or overgrowth interactions among sessile epibionts). Deepsea taphonomy of shelly substrates is not only a key to the past but is also a key to understanding modern deepsea shell-inhabiting communities.
10.2307/3514497|Model sclerites of the trilobite Dikelocephalus were qualitatively observed under two different hydrodynamic conditions: falling through still water and entrained inflowing water. Most pygidia were found to glide backwards through still water in a convex up attitude, whereas most cranidia glided forwards in a convex down position. Presented data from fossils show just such a pattern of final dispositions. In flowing water both sclerites were found to behave in a similar manner to each other. Taphonomic studies using trilobite orientations and attitudes should therefore take account of the different hydrodynamic properties of cranidia and pygidia as well as differences between sclerites of different taxa and of different sizes.
20172969|New Zealand has the most complete Cenozoic molluscan fossil record in the Southern Hemisphere. In order to understand the true marine faunal history of the region, it is necessary first to identify apparent biodiversity changes that result simply from variations in the quality of the fossil record. The present study uses a range of methods to quantify both long-term, secular changes and short-term patterns of variation in sampling probability for New Zealand Cenozoic shelf molluscs. Overall, about one-third of all once-living Cenozoic species have been sampled, and average per-stage sampling probabilities are between 20% and 50%. Increase in per-stage sampling probability through time reflects the increase in outcrop area and ease of fossil recovery from older to younger stages. Short-term patterns of variation apparently are related to second-order sequence stratigraphic controls of preservation potential. Once the effects of stage duration are eliminated, patterns of stage-to-stage sampling probability reflect enhanced preservation in midcycle positions and, perhaps to a lesser extent, secondary post-depositional loss of stratigraphic record above and below sequence boundaries. Although this result mirrors patterns observed in Europe, it is possible that enhanced preservation mid-cycle is relatively more important at active margins, such as New Zealand, whereas secondary loss of record at the sequence boundary is more important at passive margins. Finally, it is worth noting that different methods and data compilations yield rather consistent estimates of short-term variation in sampling probability, lending confidence to the methods and suggesting that the patterns identified are likely to reflect true underlying features of the New Zealand marine fossil record.
40606440|The application of oxygen isotope ratios (O) from freshwater bivalves as a proxy for river discharge conditions in the Rhine and Meuse rivers is investigated. We compared a dataset of water temperature and water O values with a selection of recent shell  O records for two species of the genus Unio in order to establish: (1) whether differences between the rivers in water  O values, reflecting river discharge conditions, are recorded in unionid shells; and (2) to what extent ecological parameters influence the accuracy of bivalve shell  O values as proxies of seasonal, water oxygen isotope conditions in these rivers. The results show that shells from the two rivers differ significantly in  O values, reflecting different source waters for these two rivers. The seasonal shell  O records show truncated sinusoidal patterns with narrow peaks and wide troughs, caused by temperature fractionation and winter growth cessation. Interannual growth rate reconstructions show an ontogenetic growth rate decrease. Growth lines in the shell often, but not always, coincide with winter growth cessations in the 5 18 O record, suggesting that growth cessations in the shell 5 18 O records are a better age estimator than counting internal growth lines. Seasonal predicted and measured 5 18 O values correspond well, supporting the hypothesis that these unionids precipitate their shells in oxygen isotopic equilibrium. This means that (sub-) fossil unionids can be used to reconstruct spring-summer river discharge conditions, such as Meuse low-discharge events caused by droughts and Rhine meltwater-influx events caused by melting of snow in the Alps.
10.2307/3515194|Morphological, taphonomical, and sedimentological data from lower Llandovery fossils and strata of Anticosti Island demonstrate that the Virgiana community occupied a wide range of substrate settings from near or above fair-weather wave base to well below normal storm wave base. Globally the large-shelled pentamerid brachiopod genus Virgiana had a relatively short temporal duration during the early Llandovery (Early Silurian) and a wide geographical distribution in shallow carbonate basins of the paleocontinents of Laurentia (North America) and Siberia. In most areas, shells of Virgiana are found in post-mortem assemblages associated with ripple-marked and cross-stratified carbonate sands, indicating that they occupied carbonate banks and shoals above fair-weather wave base, and were subject to reworking during storms. Most species of Virgiana developed a costate shell with thickened ventral umbo and flattened apex, which probably helped the organisms stay in an incurved beak-down feeding position in current-swept environments, by weighting and stabilizing the shell posterior. Virgiana shells of the Becscie Formation of Anticosti Island are most commonly preserved as post-mortem assemblages in sharp-based, poorly graded packstones, as disarticulated, broken, nested, stacked, or imbricated valves. They are intimately associated with hummocky cross-stratified carbonate sandstones and massive to laminated mudstones, indicative of deposition by storm-induced current in mid-shelf settings, below fairweather wave base. While some of the shells may have been washed in from shallower, inner-shelf environments during storms, many articulated specimens show well-preserved growth lines, and little evidence of abrasion, indicating local origin. The rare occurrences of in situ shells suggest that Virgiana communities extended into depths of 30 m. A further departure from the norm occurs in the overlying late Rhuddanian Merrimack Formation of Anticosti Island, where strongly costate, articulated shells of Virgiana mayvillensis are relatively well preserved in calcareous and micritic mudsione and calsisilitie beds. This suggests that V. mayvillensis was able to survive in deeper-water, relatively low-energy environments, in mid- to outer-shelf settings well below normal storm wave base. On Anticosti, there are no reefs in either of the Virgiana-bearing formations.
10.2307/3514591|Gradient analysis has previously been used by ecologists and paleoecologists to quantify spatial gradients in the distribution of taxa. Temporal gradients can also be quantified by these techniques, which makes them potentially useful in biostratigraphy. Case studies of the methods of detrended correspondence analysis and reciprocal averaging are given in this paper, demonstrating their potential for ordinating faunas by age. Detrended correspondence analysis successfully ordinated the Ordovician sequence of Estonia on the basis of its bryozoan fauna, establishing an "age gradient" on the first axis. Previously undated bryozoan faunas of Baltic affinity from erratic boulders in Poland and the Naungkangyi Formation of Burma were dated by establishing their position along the Estonian uage gradient." The erratic boulder fauna from Poland was determined to be of Hirnantian (Latest Ashgill) age. The Naungkangyi fauna was dated as ranging from Late Caradoc to Early Ashgill in age. Reciprocal averaging was used to group Late Ordovician and Silurian bryozoan faunas into three age categories based on first axis scores and into clastic vs. carbonate facies categories based on second axis scores. These results signify that gradient analysis can be a useful technique for quantitative biostratigraphic correlation and that bryozoans, although rarely used in biostratigraphy, are potentially significant index fossils.
27670619|We present the first continous, high-resolution record of Mg/Ca variations within an encrusting coralline red alga, Clathromorphum nereostratum, from Amchitka Island, Aleutian Islands. Mg/Ca ratios of individual growth increments were analyzed by measuring a single-point, electron-microprobe transect, yielding a resolution of 15 samples/year and a 65-year record (19021967) of variations. Results show that Mg/Ca ratios in the high-Mg calcite algal framework display pronounced annual cyclicity and archive late springlate fall sea-surface temperatures (SST) corresponding to the main season of algal growth. Mg/Ca values correlate well to local SST, as well as to an air temperature record from the same region. High spatial correlation to large-scale SST variability in the subarctic North Pacific is observed, with patterns of strongest correlation following the direction of major oceanographic features that play a key role in the exchange of water masses between the North Pacific and the Bering Sea. Our data correlate well with a shorter Mg/Ca record from a second site, corroborating the ability of the alga to reliably record regional environmental signals. In addition, Mg/Ca ratios relate well to a 29-year 18O time series measured on the same sample, providing additional support for the use of Mg in coralline red algae as a paleotemperature proxy that, unlike algal-18O, is not influenced by salinity fluctuations. Moreover, electron microprobebased analysis enables higher sampling resolution and faster analysis, thus providing a promising approach for future studies of longer C. nereostratum records and applications to other coralline species.
40606502|Phylogenetic community structure and assembly is a burgeoning field in the discipline of community ecology. An array of statistical techniques have been developed in order to study whether or not local assemblages of species are a phylogenetically random, overdispersed, or clustered subset of the regional species pool to which they belong. Phylogenetic clustering or overdispersion depends on aspects of species evolutionary ecology, such as habitat preference, limits of similarity among closely related species, and how traits are inherited in ancestor-descendant relationships. Here I applied the first analysis of phylogenetic community structure and assembly to Plio-Pleistocene large mammal communities of western Eurasia, with the additional goal of verifying if the existing statistics are suitable to be used with fossil data. The results demonstrate that (1) the use of phylogeny in the study of community evolution is feasible with a number of diverse metrics, (2) phylogenetic distance between fossil communities provides an important addition to classic turnover metrics, and (3) the phylogenetic structure of Eurasian Ice-Age mammal communities changed significantly around 1 Ma, when these communities were filled with closely related species from both carnivore and herbivore clades.
27670448|We report the effects of charring on the ferns Osmunda, Pteridium, and Matteucia with coniferous wood (Sequoia) for comparison. Like charred wood, charred ferns shrink, become black and brittle with a silky sheen, and retain three-dimensional cellular structure. Ferns yield recognizable charcoal (up to 800C) that could potentially survive in the fossil record enabling reconstruction of ancient fire-prone vegetation containing ferns. Charred fossils of herbaceous ferns would indicate surface fires. Like charred wood, cell-wall layers of charred ferns homogenize, and their reflectance values increase with rising temperature. Charcoalified fragments of thick-walled cells from conifer wood or fern tissues are indistinguishable and so cannot be used to infer the nature of source vegetation. Charred conifer wood and charred fern tissues show a relationship between mean random reflectance and temperature of formation and can be used to determine minimum ancient fire temperatures. Both charred conifer wood and charred fern tissues show some tendency toward increasingly lighter 13C values up to charring temperatures of 600C, which should be taken into account in analyses of 13C in charcoals. Charred fern tissues consistently have significantly more depleted 13C values (4) than charred wood. Therefore, if an analysis of 13C through time included fern charcoal among a succession of wood charcoals, any related shifts in 13C could be misinterpreted as atmospheric changes or misused as isotope stratigraphic markers. Thus, charcoals of comparable botanical origin and temperatures of formation should be used in order to avoid misinterpretations of shifts in 13C values.
40865405|The character and quantity of bioturbation preserved on bedding-plane exposures reflect a number of interrelated factors, including sediment accumulation rate, oxygen availability, and benthic community composition.In order to effectively document and compare bioturbation data from bedding planes, precise quantitative methods are needed. Here we present the intersection grid method, a quantitative presence/absencebased technique for accurately and efficiently estimating the percentage bioturbation on bedding-plane surfaces. The intersection grid method, which is based on an established method for estimating vegetative cover, is entirely digital and allows grids to be precisely scaled to match the bioturbation being analyzed. In addition, a record of each grid analysis can be saved as an image file for archiving and use in paleocommunity reconstruction. Testing the intersection grid method on hypothetical bedding-plane images demonstrates that accurate resultswithin 0.5% of the actual bioturbation percentagecan be obtained efficiently by scaling the grid within a recommended range. Intersection grid method data can be analyzed statistically and combined with descriptive ichnological and sedimentological data to reveal spatial, temporal, and paleoenvironmental patterns in bioturbation and make meaningful comparisons at outcrop, locality, and regional scales.
3515685|Large mammals, especially Hippopotamus amphibius, have created a distinctive set of traces in a spring-fed freshwater wetland on the margin of the saline-alkaline crater lake in the Ngorongoro Crater, Tanzania. It is comprised of a ~30 m diameter zone of deep (<2m) bioturbation due to hippo wallowing, surrounded by dendritic to radial hippo trails 1-5 m wide and <0.5 m deep, infilled with organicrich mud. These trails narrow and thin as they grade into trackways on the lake flat. Tracks and trackways of more terrestrial mammals, such as bovids and equids, are found in the lake flat muds surrounding the hippo-dominated area. Associations of sedimentary structures such as these are important indicators of paleoenvironmental conditions where they are preserved in the sedimentary record, due to the strong affinity of Hippopotamidae for freshwater environments.
10.2307/3515093|Recent developments in taphonomic experimentation are reviewed, with an emphasis on investigations of the role of decay in the fossilization of invertebrates. Documentation of the stages through which an organism decays provides an important basis for the interpretation of soft-bodied fossils, particularly problematica such as conodonts and Ediacaran taxa. Experiments allow the factors controlling decay to be determined. The relative preservation potential of different tissue types and of different taxa can be assessed. A number of processes critical to fossilization operate on a laboratory time scale. The impact of decay on the susceptibility of skeletons to disarticulation, dissolution and disintegration can be investigated. Soft-tissues can be replicated by minerals in experiments, providing a more reliable indication of the conditions and time required for this type of preservation than we can obtain from investigations of fossils and their occurrence. Laboratory simulations have demonstrated the important role of dehydration in promoting the exceptional preservation of soft tissues in amber. Decay experiments are also important in determining why organic compounds survive to be preserved as fossil biomolecules. Differential decay is just one source of bias in fossil assemblages. Another, transport dynamics, has been investigated by quantifying settling and entrainment velocities, and drag/lift coefficients (of trilobite sclerites, brachiopod valves and conodont elements, for example). Rates of bioerosion have also been recorded in experiments. The development of more sophisticated techniques for monitoring and analyzing the results of experiments will ensure that such approaches continue to be a powerful tool in interpreting taphonomic processes.
40865413|Bioglyphs are features in burrow or boring walls produced by such animal activity as scratching, drilling, plucking, gnawing, poking, and etching. Bioglyphs are important aspects to consider when making paleoethologic interpretations of trace fossils, because they can offer direct clues to understanding the mechanism of excavation of the trace fossil, the identity of the tracemaker, the purpose of the burrow or boring, and the character of the sediment in which the trace fossil has been produced.
10.2307/3514563|This report documents the occurrence of thrombolites in the Ediacaran/Vendian Blueflower Formation and the Upper Riphaean Little Dal Group. These occurrences are significant biostratigraphically in the light of published opinions to the effect that thrombolites first appear near the Precambrian-Cambrian boundary. Furthermore, they are significant with respect to models of the evolution of organic communities across the Precambrian-Cambrian boundary, and demonstrate conclusively that thrombolites are not simply burrowed/bored algal stromatolites.
10.2307/3515344|In-depth understanding of past climatic and biotic change requires the study of ancient ecosystems. However, terrestrial plants and vertebrates are preferentially preserved under very different taphonomic conditions, and diverse fossil floras and faunas are rarely found in close association. Big Multi Quarry and associated strata in the uppermost Fort Union Formation of the Washakie Basin, southwestern Wyoming, provide a uniquely detailed record of terrestrial fauna, flora, and climate during the early Clarkforkian. The Clarkforkian Land Mammal Age, approximately the last million years of the Paleocene, was an interval of global warming that had profound biotic consequences. The mammalian fauna of Big Multi Quarry, consisting of 41 species, is the most diverse known from a single Clarkforkian locality. Unlike most other Clarkforkian faunas, this assemblage is not significantly biased against small forms. Lipotyphlan insectivores were dominant, and arboreally adapted taxa were abundant and diverse. The closely associated and well-preserved fossil plant assemblage was overwhelmingly dominated by a single species belonging to the birch family. Floral richness, heterogeneity, and evenness were as low as in the Tiffanian of the same region, showing that forest structure remained monotonous even as climate warmed and mammals diversified in the Clarkforkian. The plant assemblage more closely resembles middle than early Clarkforkian floras of northern Wyoming, suggesting northward migration of the ranges of plant taxa coincident with warming. A great deal of research has focused on the unusually warm interiors of continents in the terminal Paleocene and early Eocene. Multiple lines of evidence from our study, including sedimentological indicators, analyses of the nearest living relatives and functional analogues of the fossil plants and animals, size and margin analysis of fossil leaves, and cenogram analysis of the mammalian fauna, indicate that southwestern Wyoming had a humid subtropical climate with little or no seasonal frost or marked dry season, well before the terminal Paleocene.
27670566|The Ischigualasto Formation was deposited in a fluvial system and contains a very well preserved Triassic flora. This flora comprises seven taphofacies: (1) C(St), autochthonous silicified roots of low-statured, woody plants associated with low-sinuosity channels and crevasse-splay deposits; (2) A(Sm/Fm), autochthonous carbonized roots or root impressions of herbaceous plants in crevasse-splay and levee deposits; (3) B(Fsm/Fm), autochthonous root halos of herbaceous plants associated with levee deposits; (4) EI(St), allochthonous silicified tree trunks and charcoal associated with high- and low-sinuosity channel bars; (5) GI(St), leaf cuticles and charcoal associated with trough cross-bedded sandstone; (6) FH(Fl/C), leaf cuticles and impressions associated with palynomorphs in abandoned-channel deposits; and (7) D(Fl), autochthonous silicified stumps in abandoned-channel deposits. Taphonomically, the Ischigualasto Formation can be divided into four parts, and these partially correspond to changes in the environment. The basal part (045 m) includes the transition from the underlying Los Rastros Formation and is characterized by taphofacies 1 and 2. The fluvial sediments were deposited during tectonic subsidence of the basin, resulting in development of a fluvioaxial system. The next part (45300 m) is characterized by taphofacies 1, 2, and 3 and associated with calcic paleosols that formed under a dry seasonal climate. The middle-upper portion (300600 m) contains all the taphofacies associated with argillic paleosols, which were formed during a time of increasing humidity. The upper portion (600700 m) is characterized by taphofacies 1, 2, and 3, associated with immature paleosols that formed under a dry seasonal climate. The changes in humidity during deposition of the Ischigualasto Formation may have resulted from an increase in rainfall generated on the western side of Pangea by maximal development of the megamonsoon during the middle Carnian Age. The climatic signal in the Ischigualasto Formation was probably modified by the tectonosedimentary development of the basin.
27670379|Ordination is a common tool for reconstructing paleoecological gradients for ordering samples and taxa along one or more axes of variation in faunal composition. The primary source of variation, known as the primary gradient, commonly is highly correlated with water depth in marine systems, and elevation or moisture in terrestrial systems. When ordination sample scores are plotted stratigraphically, they commonly reveal long-term patterns of variation related to changes in this primary gradient, and these patterns have proved useful in regional correlation. In addition, ordination scores display high-frequency, high-amplitude patterns of variation unrelated to this primary gradient. The origin of this high-frequency variation has been enigmatic, but recently has been argued to reflect faunal patchiness. Numerical modeling of ordination scores derived from the Upper Ordovician Kope Formation of the Cincinnati, Ohio area is used here to demonstrate that such high-frequency patterns of variation indeed can arise from the presence of faunal patchiness along ecological gradients. The magnitude of this variation is controlled by the peak-abundance distribution of fossil taxa as well as the abundance distribution of a taxon at any given position along the primary gradient. Replicate sampling or moving averages should be employed to control for this high-frequency variation before ordination sample scores can be treated as a suitable proxy for environmental factors such as water depth, elevation, or moisture.
27670606|Although limpets are common in rocky intertidal shores, little is known about drilling predation on them. Drilling intensity and preferences by Nucella (Muricidae) on three Lottiidae species (Lottia pelta, L. digitalis, and Tectura scutum) were explored in a modern limpet death assemblage from False Bay (San Juan Island, Washington, USA). Of the 1,531 shells, only 61 (4%) were drilled, with drilling frequencies of 5.9% (L. digitalis), 2.4% (L. pelta) and 0.5% (T. scutum). The higher drilling frequency observed for L. digitalis may reflect spatial differences in prey distribution within the intertidal zone. Hole diameter correlated positively with limpet size, suggesting that larger predators drill larger prey. No differences in drilling frequency were observed due to prey ornamentation or size; however, drill holes were never observed on the largest and thickest L. pelta shells, suggesting a possible size refugium. The majority of holes occurred near the apex, indicating stereotypic attack behavior. Uniform frequency distributions across taphonomic grades and similar central tendencies between drilled and undrilled shells suggest that holes were not affected by taphonomic bias. The preservation of drilled and undrilled shells differed significantly, however; thus, drill holes may have negatively affected the preservation potential of shells, possibly by weakening the shell. Poor shell preservation indicates that biostratinomic effects may play a larger role in preservational biases and underestimation of predation frequencies than previously thought. Studies using drilling frequencies demand careful identification of predatory traces when shells are poorly preserved. In addition, careful evaluation of predation frequency is needed when predatory strategies that may not leave visible traces are possible.
27670467|Free-living clusters of barnacles are described as nucleations around shell fragments of Ensis directus. The bivalve E. directus is an invader in European seas that exhibits mass mortalities, during which the animals creep partly out of the sediment. Barnacles can then settle on the inside and the outside of the posterior part of these empty, articulated, semiin situ shells. This posterior, encrusted portion apparently became separated from the remainder of the valve, enabling the barnacles to continue life as a free-living balanulith.
3515511|The substrate-controlled Glossifungites ichnofacies is a firmground suite of trace fossils that commonly demarcates erosional discontinuities in sedimentary successions. The Glossifungites ichnofacies typically is characterized by biogenic structures that are vertical to subvertical, sharp-walled, unlined and commonly passively infilled. The structures hitherto have been restricted to permanent or semi-permanent domiciles, and predominantly to vertical to subvertical burrows of suspension-feeding organisms. Several cores of the late Albian (Lower Cretaceous) Viking Formation from the Hamilton Lake Field of Alberta, Canada contain an atypical Glossifungites ichnofacies dominated by the foraging, probing and deposit-feeding/dwelling structures of firmground Thalassinoides, Rhizocorallium, and Zoophycos. The Thalassinoides are passively infilled with coarse grains of sand and chert granules. Rhizocorallium displays active stages of infill, although the final, horizontal U-shaped tube is passively filled. The Zoophycos, however, demonstrates active infill manifest by chert granules and coarse sand distributed in the spreite, and this is a departure from the normal expression of the Glossifungites ichnofacies. The firmground structures subtend from the regional stratigraphic discontinuity BD4, excavated into black, silt- and sand-poor offshore and shelf mudstones. BD4 is interpreted to reflect a transgressively modified sequence boundary. Most Zoophycos, Thalassinoides, and Rhizocorallium penetrate no deeper than 3-4 cm below the discontinuity into the underlying mudstones. Where BD4 overlies a sandier substrate, firmground Zoophycos are not present within the suite. The facies directly overlying BD4 consist of fining-upward, pebble-, granule-, and very coarse-grained sand-bearing, thoroughly burrowed muddy sandstones to sandy mudstones, typically 5-25 cm thick. This basal transgressive lag contains Teichichnus, Planolites, Palaeophycus, Diplocraterion, Chondrites and rare Helminthopsis, and is the source of the coarse-grained material incorporated into the fill of the firmground ichnogenera. The granule-bearing sandy mudstones overlying the transgressive lag contain abundant Teichichnus, Planolites, Helminthopsis, Anconichnus, Chondrites, and Terebellina, and reflect rapid deepening to proximal offshore conditions. Progressive deepening is recorded in the accumulation of distal offshore and shelf mudstones of the late Albian Westgate Formation. Although excavation of BD4 occurred above fairweather wave base, its colonization occurred under much lower energy conditions. Within distal softground settings, ichnogenera capable of deeply penetrating muddy substrates are largely restricted to Zoophycos, Thalassinoides, Rhizocorallium, and Chondrites. These ichnogenera constitute forms capable of being excavated, albeit shallowly, within a firm substrate. This is a low energy, distal expression of the Glossifungites ichnofacies.
10.2307/3515070|With its thick, glassy cortex and wide open, coalescing primary and supplementary apertures Sphaeroidinella dehiscens is a conspicuous component of low-latitude planktonic foraminifer faunas. Sphaeroidinella evolved from Sphaeroidinellopsis through the development of a supplementary aperture on the spiral side of the test. The Sphaeroidinellopsis-Sphaeroidinella lineage is important in tropical late Neogene stratigraphy. Changes in the proportion of specimens equipped with a supplementary aperture and the size of this aperture have been analyzed in terminal Miocene through basal Pleistocene sections from DSDP sites 502A from the Caribbean Sea, 503 from the eastern equatorial Pacific Ocean and 214 from the equatorial Indian Ocean. Contrary to previous suggestions, the development of a supplementary aperture (the Sphaeroidinella morphotype), marking the base of the basal Pliocene Zone N19 (5.1 Ma) in the standard tropical planktonic foraminifer zonation, took place already in the terminal Miocene (before 5.5 Ma). Following the evolutionary appearance of a supplementary aperture, the proportion in the populations of such an aperture remained low (10-30%) in the earlier parts of the Pliocene. The proportion increased abruptly within a short interval (<0.1 m.y.) in the middle parts of the Pliocene (about 3.4-3.2 Ma), and after 3.0 Ma more than 85% of the specimens had a supplementary aperture. Specimens without a supplementary aperture (the Sphaeroidinellopsis morphotype) persisted all through the Pliocene. However, after 3.0 Ma they represented the smallest specimens in particular populations. During the terminal Miocene and earlier Pliocene the supplementary aperture was constantly very small (<latex>$<2.62.10^3 \mu m^2$</latex>). In the middle Pliocene (3.4-3.3 Ma) it rapidly increased in size within a short interval of time (<0.09 m.y.) to post-transitional values of 4.25-22.20.10<sup>3</sup>  m<sup>2</sup> (with one exception). The portion of the spiral test area covered by a supplementary aperture increased from <1%in the earlier Pliocene to 2.80-7.46% in the later Pliocene, marking a 3-8-fold increase in the relative size of the supplementary aperture from the earlier to later Pliocene. Hence, the differences in size of the supplementary aperture were not related to changes in the mean test size. Consequently, the transitional event in the middle Pliocene (3.3-3.4 Ma) reflects the onset of a true evolutionary innovation within the Sphaeroidinella lineage, most probably representing an example of punctuated anagenesis.
10.2307/3514835|Analysis of fossil occurrences in late Osagean-early Meramecian stratotype beds of the upper Mississippi River Valley shows that major faunal changes occur within the Warsaw Formation, not at the underlying Keokuk-Warsaw formational contact where the Osagean-Meramecian serial boundary is presently placed. Relying on this evidence, we propose raising this boundary to the base of the informal upper Warsaw member described herein. The boundary is recognized by the first occurrence of the brachiopods Warsawia lateralis, Planalvus densa, Cross-acanthia perlamellosa, Setigerites altonensis, and Tetracamera subcuneata, the blastoid Pentremites conoideus, and the calcareous foraminifer Globoendothyra baileyi. Use of these fossil appearances provides a more rigorous definition of the serial boundary and permits correlation beyond the Mississippi River Valley. Foraminifers suggest that the boundary falls within the middle Visean of western Europe. The stratotype section for the proposed boundary is located near the type locality of the Meramecian Series at Meramec Highlands, St. Louis County, Missouri. The lithostratigraphy of the late Osagean and early Meramecian is reviewed in key areas within the Mississippi River Valley and a new member, the Peerless Park, is proposed for a shoaling unit within the middle of the Keokuk Limestone.
27670545|Taphonomic signatures on modern bivalve shells, such as traces of drilling organisms, encrusters, fragmentation, and abrasion function as indicators of environmental differences on Belize atoll reefs. Glovers Reef, Lighthouse Reef, and Turneffe Islands are three adjacent Caribbean atolls showing variations in geomorphology, lagoonal depth, sedimentation, mangrove growth, sea-grass cover, and exposure to winds and currents, as well as differences in their lagoonal development and age. A variety of bivalve assemblages characterize lagoonal subenvironments and also mirror the above-mentioned environmental variations. Taphonomic signatures, such as shell-size distribution, disarticulation, sorting, boring traces, encrustations, fragmentation, and abrasion, were identified on bivalve shells from a total of 111 surface sediment samples. Shell-size distribution and sorting of right and left valves indicate in situ deposition of populations on each atoll. Increasing residence times of shells on the sediment surface due to decreasing sedimentation rates from Turneffe Islands to Lighthouse Reef to Glovers Reef cause an increase in taphonomic shell signatures.
10.2307/3515233|Glottidia palmeri Dall, a Recent lingulide brachiopod, inhabits intertidal flats of the Colorado Delta plain in Baja California, Mexico. Live lingulides occur in patches across the intertidal zone. Patches are dominated by single cohorts with unimodal size-frequency distributions. The oldest cohorts appear to be between four and five years old. Dead specimens of G. palmeri occur in three modes: (1) In situ shells remaining after death in their burrows. These undergo decay and maceration, and blacken, soften, and eventually disintegrate. They persist up to at least a year and represent a slightly time-averaged, but strictly in place record of a single patch: (2) Surface shells removed from their burrows before or soon after death. These are deposited on the surface as single valves and undergo quick mechanical disintegration. They disappear within days, or at most weeks, and are a synchronous but spatially mixed record of different patches co-existing on the flat: (3) Beach shells represented by dried shells with mummified soft bodies. These specimens are washed out by storms and deposited on supratidal beach ridges. They disappear within weeks to months and are a synchronous, but spatially mixed record of different patches. This study offers criteria for the recognition and interpretation of preservation modes in fossil lingulides. Moreover, it confirms previous notions that Recent lingulide brachiopods have a very low fossilization potential and suggestions that high to catastrophic sedimentation rates are needed to preserve them. Thus, large-scale aspects of lingulide history (e.g., global taxonomic diversity, stratigraphic ranges) must be poorly recorded in the fossil record. At the same time, extensive time-averaging or significant transport of lingulide shells are highly unlikely. Therefore, on those rare occasions when lingulide shells are preserved, they record outcrop-scale, short-term aspects of their history with high fidelity. The literature on the Paleozoic lingulides suggests that they had a higher fossilization potential than their post-Paleozoic relatives. Thus, this study is most applicable to Mesozoic and Cenozoic lingulides. Most importantly, this study suggests that the fossil record of the lingulides may be affected by a taphonomic megabias-their decrease in diversity and ecologic importance after the Paleozoic may be, in part, a taphonomic artifact.
10.2307/3514531|Roofs (1967) concept of community guilds, each consisting of several species competing for the same "class of environmental resources, " directly applies to the study of both Holocene and fossil reef communities. The structural model presented here consists of five guilds: constructor, baffler, binder, destroyer, and dweller. The constructor, baffler, and binder guilds build the rigid organic framework of the reef at a rate of upward accretion that exceeds the rate of deposition of the adjacent level-bottom sediments to give the reef positive topographic relief. Constructors and bafflers exploit the spatial resource above the reef surface; they differ in the greater skeletonization, skeletal volume, and more rapid upward growth of the constructors. Binders consist of skeletal and non-skeletal organisms that grow most rapidly along the reef surface and unite the organic framework and the internal reef sediment. Destroyers of the framework include borers below the surface and biters and raspers on the surface. Dwellers are passive (neither framebuilders nor destroyers) members of the reef community that are of equant to irregular shapes and live on/between the members of the other guilds.
10.2307/3514633|Diagenesis commonly is a subtle, yet significant source of taphonomic bias. Failure to recognize diagenetic influences on primary depositional features can lead to spurious paleoecological and paleoenvironmental conclusions. This is exemplified by early diagenetic calcareous concretions and laminated siderite in the lower part of the Dugger Formation (Pennsylvanian: Desmoinesian) in southwestern Indiana. Calcareous concretions are common in organic-rich, black shale, in which they record vital paleoecological and paleoenvironmental information lost in the surrounding deposits. Evidence of early cementation in these concretions includes 1) presence within concretions of thin-shelled or weakly ornamented molluscs (e.g. Placopterina ohioensis, Parallelodon obsoletus, and Nuculopsis girtyi), which are not preserved in surrounding black shales, 2) preservation of original convexity in bivalves, 3) preservation of woody fragments not preserved in the enclosing black shale, 4) up to 80 percent post-diagenetic compactional drape of the surrounding black shale around the concretions, and 5) preservation of bioturbation horizons that indicate temporally short oxygenation events not preserved in the enclosing black shale. The presence of these feature within the concretions contradicts previous interpretations of very low faunal diversity resulting from totally anoxic environmental conditions. Laminated siderite occurs stratigraphically higher within the Dugger Formation. Evidence for early diagenesis of this laminated siderite is the preservation of uncrushed productid brachiopods in growth position. A fresh-water origin for laminated siderite is supported by the presence of brackish and nonmarine fossils within and immediately above the siderite layer. The preservation of productid brachiopods in growth position at the base of the siderite suggests a sudden fresh-water influx into marine or brackish waters. Here, paleontological evidence supports previous geochemical interpretations of laminated-siderite formation. Recognition and exploitation of early diagenetic lithotypes in other rock units may also provide enhanced insights into faunal diversity, paleoecology, and depositional setting.
10.2307/3515602|Two previously unknown rare Middle Jurassic dinosaur megatracksites are reported from the Bighorn Basin of northern Wyoming in the Western Interior of the United States. These trace fossils occur in carbonate units once thought to be totally marine in origin, and constitute the two most extensive Middle Jurassic dinosaur tracksites currently known in North America. The youngest of these occurs primarily along a single horizon at or near the top of the "basal member" of the "lower" Sundance Formation, is mid-Bathonian in age, and dates to ~167 ma. This discovery necessitates a major change in the paleogeographic reconstructions for Wyoming for this period. The older tracksites occur at multiple horizons within I am interval in the middle part of the Gypsum Spring Formation. This interval is uppermost Bajocian in age and dates to ~170 ma. Terrestrial tracks found, to date, have been all bipedal tridactyl dinosaur prints. At least some of these prints can be attributed to theropods. Possible swim tracks of bipedal dinosaurs are also present in the Gypsum Spring Formation. Digitigrade prints dominate the Sundance trackways, with both plantigrade and digitigrade prints being preserved in the Gypsum Spring trackways. The Sundance track-bearing surface locally covers 7.5 square kilometers in the vicinity of Shell, Wyoming. Other tracks occur apparently on the same horizon approximately 25 kilometers to the west, north of the town of Greybull. The Gypsum Spring megatracksite is locally preserved across the same 25 kilometer east-west expanse, with the Gypsum Spring megatracksite more extensive in a north-south direction with tracks occurring locally across a 100 kilometer extent. Conservative estimates for the trackway density based on regional mapping in the Sundance tracksite discovery area near Shell suggests that over 150,000 in situ tracks may be preserved per square kilometer in the Sundance Formation in this area. Comparable estimates have not been made for other areas. Similarities between the two megatracksites include their formation and preservation in upper intertidal to supratidal sediments deposited under at least seasonally arid conditions. Microbial mat growth on the ancient tidal flats apparently initiated the preservation of these prints.
3515859|A uniquely preserved occurrence of the plectambonitoid brachiopod Sowerbyella rugosa from the Upper Ordovician of Northern Kentucky shows several individuals preserved in direct association with burrow-like structures and oriented with the commissural plane vertical and the hinge line down in the upper laminated siltstone of a tempestite bed. Two types of structures are present: (1) structures that document translational motion of convex-up brachiopods to the surface, then rotation to a vertical position with the commissure near the sediment-water interface; and (2) structures that show slightly longer-term occupation and sediment clearing around the brachiopods before they expired in the post-storm accumulation of fine mud. The abilities demonstrated by these individuals require a rethinking of the helpless-strophomenid paradigm. The peculiar plectambonitoid traits, mantle threads (as evidenced by interarea canals) and external mantle flaps (as evidenced by comae) were unlikely to have contributed to the ability of these individuals to burrow upward. Valve clapping is the only apparent means by which Sowerbyella rugosa could have moved through the sediment. If plectambonitoids could have moved by clapping their valves, then the same may have been true of strophomenoids, such as Rafinesquina alternata. The ability to move sediment and adjust position explains how strophomenids could live in a convex-up position or even, if partially buried, in more vertical positions, as documented by previous epibiont studies. These abilities suggest that geniculation may have served to anchor shells of active individuals in an inclined or vertical position in higher-energy environments of shifting substrates rather than to lift commissures of passive individuals in a convexdown position in lower-energy environments of rapid mud accumulation.
3515669|The Shelf and Slope Experimental Taphonomy Initiative (SSETI) Program was established to measure taphonomic rates in a range of continental shelf and slope environments. Experiments were deployed on the forereef slope off Lee Stocking Island, Bahamas, for one and two years along two transects (AA and BA) in seven distinctive environments of deposition (EODs) along each transect: in sand channels on the platform top (15 m) and the platform edge (30 m), on ledges down the wall (70-88 m), on the upper (183 m-transect BA only) and lower (210-226 m) talus slope below the wall, and on the crest (256-264 m) and in the trough (259-267 m) of large sand dunes. Discoloration was by far the dominant taphonomic process over the two-year deployment period, with dissolution or maceration of shell carbonate a close second. Periostracum breakdown was not significant, nor was loss of shell weight. Chipped edges and breakage (assayed by the edge alteration variable) were much less common, but were important in some species. The degrees of edge alteration and dissolution were correlated with discoloration more frequently than expected by chance, emphasizing that the process of discoloration progressed in a coordinated fashion with the other two over time. The degree of burial or the interaction between degree of burial and water depth explained most of the trends observed in discoloration. The deep water sites, below the photic zone, including the talus slope and dune EODs, had very similar taphonomic signatures. Shells were characterized by a low degree of discoloration, little edge alteration, and varying degrees of dissolution. Photic zone sites, including the platform top and wall locations, followed the opposite trends, with the shallowest site, on the platform top, typically attaining the most extreme degree of alteration. The wall location was most similar to the platform top despite the greater depth and less rigorous physical and sedimentological regime. The platform edge occupied an intermediate position, likely due to the greater degree of burial that resulted in shells at this site being at least as frequently under aphotic conditions as under photic conditions. The data indicate that similar taphonomic signatures can be attained in distinctly different ways over a two-year exposure period, complicating the interpretation of taphofacies and the taphonomic process.
40606455|The hypothesis of coordinated stasis (CS) holds that taxa within ecological communities show a pattern of persistence over geologic time (faunal stability). This hypothesis has been examined by looking for evidence of stasis and change in paleocommunity structure based on patterns of taxon abundances obtained from bulk samples of fossil assemblages. Community structure based on taxon counts is often investigated using distance-based clustering methods, employing Analysis of Similarity (ANOSIM) or other multivariate statistical tools. We propose a new method for analyzing trends in community structure by viewing taxon counts from bulk samples as a time series and assess stasis and change based on a probabilistic assessment of the continuity of the species distribution patterns. In this flexible approach, taxon counts from samples ordered in time or space (or grouped by a geologically informed hypothesis) are modeled as a sequence of multinomial or Bernoulli outcomes drawn from an underlying ecological distribution. The optimal model of community structure may then be chosen from a set of hypotheses about those distributions, based on Akaike's Information Criterion, an information-theoretic measure of ft that penalizes likelihood of fitting the data with the number of parameters needed to attain the fit. CS is the model in which the underlying probabilities for each sample are constant across different samples. In other words, the most likely scenario is that all samples are drawn from the same underlying taxon abundance distribution. We propose that this approach is a powerful and flexible method to statistically assess CS, as well as other hypotheses about community structure, and we demonstrate this method using paleoecological data from the literature.
10.2307/3515220|The St. Mary River Formation (Maastrichtian) consists of anastomosed fluvial deposits containing several hundred track-bearing beds. Paleontologic and sedimentologic analyses of these beds indicate that large herbivores, ornithopods, inhabited a seasonal wetland dominated by marshes and lakes. Shallow tracks in fine-grained sediments, formed as the sediments dewatered to the point of stiffness, display the highest resolution of detail. The preservation potential of tracks in anastomosed fluvial deposits is large because of the abundance of soft substrates to record the tracks and the occurrence of annual flooding to rapidly bury the footprints. Comparison of the St. Mary River Formation to other anastomosed fluvial deposits as old as the Early Jurassic confirms that tracks are common in this type of deposit. The variation in preservation of track types and depth of penetration raises the possibility that ornithopods employed a survival strategy involving seasonal wetlands. The wetlands provided an abundant food source and at the same time the combination of a soft substrate and flooded conditions would have effectively countered the superior speed and agility of large carnivores. The relatively common occurrence of ornithopod eggshells from anastomosed fluvial deposits suggests that the abundant food supply accompanying the wet season also made the wetlands an ideal location to rear young.
10.2307/3515579|At Apo Reef Mindoro, a small, isolated, moderate-energy platform reef in the central Philippines, foraminifera comprise a significant portion (c.40%) of the sediment. This study examines four assemlages of foraminifera: live foraminifera; dead, unabraded foraminifera; abraded and fragmented foraminifera; and the three data sets combined into a total assemblage in order to determine their relative usefulness in identifying reefal sub-environments. The time averaged assemblages, the product of taphonomic processes, prove to be much more effective in delineating reefal physiographic sub-environments than do the live assemblages. The abundance of live foraminifera, except for minute sediment-attached rotaliines, is strongly controlled by the distribution of algal turf and filamentous algal mat. Filamentous algae, with abundant live delicate species, occur in both high- and low-energy reef zones. The time-averaged assemblages are characterized by robust calcarinids in the shallow seaward zones; by free-living miliolids and small rotaliines in the leeward zones; and by planktonics and large thin rotaliines in the fore reef. This enhanced fidelity of the time-averaged assemblages in relation to physiographic zones reflects a combination of the ecological distribution of robust, abrasion-resistant species, the selective destruction of small, delicate tests in higher-energy zones, and the failure of storms and other mechanisms to homogenize the reefal sands.
10.2307/3514587|The high survival rate of gastropod genera during the end-Permian extinction (74% vs. 84% overall), their broad distribution, and their ecologic diversity make them an excellent group in which to analyze patterns of survival and extinction. The extraordinarily diverse, well-preserved, silicified gastropod assemblages in the Permian of the southwestern United States are found in basin-fringing carbonate shelves, patch reefs, restricted shelf-basinal carbonates and nearshore, clastic-rich carbonates. Using both field and museum collections I gathered information on distribution and species-richness of 78 genera at 53 localities throughout this province. Three distinct gastropod assemblages were identified using detrended correspondence analysis: a basinmargin assemblage of Leonardian-lower Guadalupian age located in and around the Permian Basin, primarily in the Glass Mountains, a lower Wolfcampian assemblage in the Glass Mountains associated with sponge-algal bioherms, and a carbonate shelf assemblage in southern New Mexico and Arizona of Wolfcampian and Leonardian age. Analysis of the lithotope-dependence, geographic distribution, and species-richness of genera within the province reveals that those genera which survived the end-Permian extinction were characterized by broad environmental distribution within the province and by both broad geographic range and species richness during the mid-to upper Permian. These characteristics are reflected in the older age of genera that survived the extinction relative to the age of those that went extinct, and suggest that the characteristics that enhanced generic survival during the mass extinction did not greatly differ from those that enhanced survival during the intervals between mass extinctions.
10.2307/3515047|This paper discusses fossil insect studies from the Bolson de Mapimi region in the southern Chihuahuan Desert of Mexico. Fossil packrat middens from three study areas were analyzed, providing paleoenvironmental reconstructions of late Wisconsin to late Holocene age. Paleofloristic analyses of late Wisconsin samples from two of the three areas have been published; the insect results are in good agreement with the paleobotany. The late glacial assemblages comprise a mixture of temperate and desert taxa, in addition to some tropical and subtropical elements. In contrast to faunas from other Chihuahuan Desert regions, only one temperate species was found in the late glacial assemblages. Following a temporal hiatus (12,000-9000 yr BP), most of the late glacial fauna disappears from the records. Desertscrub community beetles dominated the early and mid-Holocene assemblages. Late Holocene assemblages contained both temperate and desert species. The region was apparently a refugium for desert biota during the late Pleistocene, its southerly latitude dampening the climatic effects of the Wisconsin glaciation, allowing the survival of desert species. A mosaic of temperate and xeric habitats persisted regionally, even during the last 1000 yr, when other parts of the desert experienced extremes of aridity.
3515875|Bivalve borings are described for the first time in coprolites. They occur along with bored bone from Cretaceous through Eocene phosphatic conglomerates in the Taoudeni and Iullemmeden Basins of northeastern Mali. Coprolites are extensively penetrated by flask-shaped borings (Gastrochaenolites): the oldest known occurrence of the ichnospecies G. ornatus preserves mechanical scratch traces at the base of some early Eocene coprolite borings. The alleged tracemaker, a pholad bivalve of the Subfamily Martesiinae, is preserved as an external mold in one of the early Eocene coprolites. It is the first occurrence of rock-borers in this subfamily from the Paleocene of West Africa. Bored coprolites were very firm to fully lithified (paleocoprolites) when bored by the pholads, indicating early-diagenetic phosphogenesis of the clasts. The intense and repeated bioerosion of coprolites and bone by pholads suggests a long residence time in shallow-marine waters for the clasts. Therefore, the vertebrate fossil assemblages in these Mali conglomerates are considered highly time-averaged. Recognition of Gastrochaenolites borings in vertebrate remains provides useful taphonomic and paleoenvironmental information, despite their destructive impact on the fossils.
3515849|The Toolebuc Formation (Late Albian) is a thin (<40m), very widely distributed unit marking the maximum deepening of the Cretaceous epicontinental sea recorded by the infill of the Great Artesian Basin, eastern Australia. It consists of organic-rich shale, with TOC ranging to 35%, and limestone as laminae and thin beds comprised of Inoceramus sutherlandi McCoy and, less commonly, Aucellina hughendenensis Etheridge. Finely interlayered organic-rich shale and coquina are typical of the formation, resulting in a distinctively black-and-white, thinly bedded to laminated rock. Inoceramus valves are commonly disturbed by breakage, reorientation, and imbrication, and, in many cases, have disintegrated into prism horizons. Sedimentary laminae show that the sea floor was subject to some current activity, but benthic scavengers are considered to have been active agents of shell disturbance. Although shelly substrate suitable for encrusting epibenthos or colonization by endoliths was available in abundance, other benthic elements, inclusive of trace fossils, are very poorly represented. The formation contains diverse planktonic, pelagic, and nektonic fossil remains attesting to deposition beneath a water column of normal salinity, supporting a complex food chain. It displays a negative <sup>13C</sup><sub>org</sub> excursion, considered to relate to sea floor bacterial reworking ofdetrital organic material derived from plankton. In the context of the Toolebuc Formation, Inoceramus sutherlandi and Aucellina hughendenensis represent ecological specialists, with shell-growth strategies designed to cope with soft substrates and physiologies that were tolerant of oxygen-poor bottom conditions. Their intimate association with organic-rich shale suggests a trophic link with sea-floor bacterial productivity, supported from the organic-rich substrate. The lateral extent of Toolebuc coquinas suggests that Inoceramus sutherlandi and Aucellina hughendenensis were filter feeders rather than dependent on chemotrophic symbionts. Fine-scale interlayering of coquina and organic-rich shale attests to frequent alternation of sea-floor conditions conducive to colonization by bivalve communities and those that were not. Alternation is attributed in part to an autocyclic mechanism, with sea-floor accumulation of shelly debris having progressively isolated bivalve communities from trophic support, causing their episodic demise.
3515424|Clusters of microstromatolites, up to 10 mm high with a basal diameter of <4 mm, grow on twigs and small islands in shallow hot-spring waters around Champagne Pool and on Primrose Terrace at Waiotapu, New Zealand. Similar microstromatolites are present in the ephemeral, acidic outflow waters from Inferno Crater at Waimangu. These microstromatolites, which form in thermally stressed environments, are composed of amorphous silica and, in some specimens, minor amounts of antimony. Calcite, sulfur, and gypsum crystals are present on some microstromatolite surfaces. The microstromatolites are characterized by vertically stacked zones, commonly only 1-2 mm high, that are defined principally by the distribution of microbes that grow on the external surface of these structures. Microorganisms preserved in the microstromatolites include bacteria, cyanobacteria, diatoms, tasmanitids (Inferno Crater only), amoebae (Inferno Crater only), and soil mites (Champagne Pool only). These microbes thrived even though the substrates, in the case of Champagne Pool, were only a few millimeters above water with a temperature (76C) that is much higher than their respective maximum tolerance temperatures. The vertical distribution of the microbes in the microstromatolites is probably controlled by a temperature gradient that is a function of the interaction of the steam rising from the spring water and the ambient air temperature. This study shows that the use of microbes as indicators of water paleotemperature in old hot-spring deposits must be treated with caution. Microbes with low maximum tolerance temperatures can survive, thrive, and be fossilized only a few millimeters above waters that are too hot for their survival.
25835644|Distribution, growth rate, and carbonate production of non-geniculate and unattached coralline red algal beds (rhodoliths) were studied in the Gulfs of Panama and Chiriqu along the Pacific coast of Panama. This is the first attempt to quantify coralline carbonate production in this region based on a newly developed algorithm. Although situated at the same latitude, the two gulfs are characterized by distinctly different environmental conditions; Chiriqu is mesotrophic throughout the year, whereas the Gulf of Panama is eutrophic due to intense seasonal upwelling. Coralline algal carbonate production is 10 greater in the Gulf of Chiriqu (11.258  10 gr CaCO yr) than in the Gulf of Panama (1.69  10 gr CaCO yr), which is characterized mostly by siliciclastics with minor carbonates. Corallines display a patchy distribution in both gulfs being concentrated mainly around the islands. In Chiriqu, they occur as thin crusts as well as massive-nodular and open-branching growth types; encrusting types are most common in the Gulf of Panama. Growth rates of branching corallines were calculated based on annual growth bands matched to their skeletal Mg/Ca ratios. Ratios are higher in the less dense portions of growth bands corresponding to higher growth rates during the dry season, whereas both Mg/Ca ratios and growth rates in the dense portions (wet season) drop. Growth rates of branch tips in both sites are similar to those reported from other temperate-subtropical regions. Extremely slow growth rates combined with the old ages of individual thalli document the overall stability of this algal ecosystem.
10.2307/3514571|Feeding colonies of the branched cheilostome bryozoan Bugula neritina trap sediment more effectively from sediment-laden water flowing at velocities of a few cm/s than do dead colonies, which in turn collect more sediment than bare, smooth substrata. The enhanced sedimentation immediately downstream of live colonies is due apparently to cilia-generated currents. These currents draw water, sediment and organic material, that would otherwise pass by unimpeded, through the colonies and into the stagnant region below and leeward of them. Ancient colonies with organization generally similar to Bugula (such as the Paleozoic fenestrate bryozoans) may also have generated higher sedimentation rates where slightly turbid water passed over them than passive baffling or production of feces or pseudofeces alone would generate. This potentially could have contributed to enigmatic mudmound buildups, such as the Carboniferous Waulsortian mounds, and other muddy facies.
27670352|The effects of acidification on the preservation of buried lacustrine microfossils were evaluated using experimental tanks to simulate pH, depth, duration of acidification, and buffering conditions below the sediment/water interface of a hypothetical acidified lake. The taphonomic data provided from these experiments suggest that buffering by the host catchment (i.e., the CaCO3 content of the soils and outcrops that underlie the lake and drainage basin) is the primary factor promoting calcareous-fossil preservation under conditions of moderate and severe acidification. Global acid-rain fallout was a likely environmental consequence of the Chicxulub impact event at the CretaceousPaleogene boundary, and may have been important at other times in Earth history. Fossil preservation at the K/Pg boundary may have been affected by acidic groundwater leaching. Whereas the duration and intensity of the acid-rain fallout is poorly constrained, acid rain would have had varying effects on the acidity of lacustrine and fluvial environments with different acid-buffering capacities. Variations in acid-buffering capacities of lacustrine and fluvial catchments also may be a factor in the apparent extinction selectivity of non-marine aquatic fauna at the K/Pg boundary. Last appearances of taxa can result from poor preservation conditions or extinctionboth of which may result from acidification. Last appearances observed at the species level, but not in higher taxa, may be the result of regional heterogeneities in catchment geology. Understanding local buffering conditions may be important for interpreting the continental fossil record at the K/Pg boundary.
10.2307/3515461|Rates of burial and transport of molluscan remains are essentially unknown for deeper continental shelf and slope environments, especially over periods of years. An understanding of the rates of taphonomic loss are critical to paleoecological analyses and to paleoenvironmental studies in general. The post-depositional history of organic remains is highly dependent on the length of time the material remains at or near the sediment/water interface. In order to measure these rates, 100 gastropod and bivalve shells were scattered over a marked area of sea bottom at 21 sites in seven environments of deposition (EOD's) in the Gulf of Mexico and at five EOD's on the Bahamas platform edge. A total of over 2600 shells were deployed. Each site was thoroughly documented with video photography. After one year in the Bahamas and after two years in both the Gulf of Mexico and Bahamas, these sites were re-photographed and videotaped to measure rates of burial and movement of shells. Shell condition (e.g., articulation, encrustation, and color loss) for those shells that remained exposed was also determined. Shells deployed in Gulf of Mexico petroleum seep sites, on the open continental shelf, and on the continental slope experienced high rates of burial (0.5-3.0 cm) within two years. Shells at these sites generally were not transported or disturbed, and disarticulation rates were low. In the Bahamas, shells on the platform shelf were completely buried within one year. On the steep platform edge from 70 to 300 m, shells on hardground ledges remained exposed, whereas shells in carbonate sands were buried by up to 3.5 cm of sediment. Transport was more common on the steep slopes of the platform edge. Net sedimentation rates for the outer continental shelf and slope of 0.01-0.06 cm yr-1 are well below our observed burial rates of <sup>3</sup> 1 cm yr-1. Thus, burial rate may be somewhat independent of sedimentation rate due to local reworking of sediments by storms at shallower depths and mechanisms such as deep bottom currents or bioturbation at deeper sites. Therefore, the potential for fossil preservation in offshore areas with low sedimentation rates may be much greater than previously assumed.
10.2307/3515336|Although predator-prey escalation has been well documented in molluscan ecological systems, relatively little is known about what occurs after these systems have escalated. In order to assess potential changes in already-escalated systems, we examined bulk samples of Turritella shells collected from Neogene strata of the Atlantic and Gulf Coastal Plain, U.S.A. In particular, we examined the intensity, efficiency, and stereotypy of naticid and muricid predation on Turritella as a means of discerning subtle changes in predatory behavior. As in previous studies, we observe little change in the intensity and efficiency of naticid and muricid predation on Turritella during the Neogene. Unlike previous studies, we note significant changes in prey size during this interval. Perhaps more significant is that these changes are associated with concomitant changes in predatory drilling behavior as expressed in drillhole-site selectivity and prey-size selectivity. Together, these findings suggest that escalation was still occurring in this Neogene system, with predators likely making behavioral changes in order to keep pace with morphologic changes occurring within prey populations.
10.2307/3515434|Biodiversification patterns in two Argentine Early Ordovician basins with different geodynamic histories are presented. We address trilobites and articulate brachiopods from the Santa Rosita (Uppermost Cambrian-upper Tremadoc) and the Acoite (lower-middle Arenig) formations in the Central Andean basin, and trilobites, articulate brachiopods, and sponges from the San Juan Formation (upper Tremadoc-Llanvirn) and the lower member of the Gualcamayo Formation (upper Arenig) in the Precordillera basin. Faunal turnover mediated by immigration and/or local radiation events are recorded in both basins. In the Central Andean basin, the Tremadoc Kainella and Ceratopyge faunas are dominated by olenid trilobites, displaying a worldwide distribution and high levels of immigration. The subsequent early Arenig Thysanopyge fauna records a local radiation event, affecting primarily a single family (Asaphidae). The succeeding Famatinolithus fauna records the immigration of taxa associated with radiation within several trilobite families. Faunal turnover in the Precordillera basin in the middle and late Arenig is mainly related to the immigration of taxa. Trilobite diversity is low during late Tremadoc-middle Arenig; however, a local deepening in the northern part of the basin resulted in a significant diversity increase in the late Arenig, mediated by the immigration of more cosmopolitan genera. Sponge diversity in the late Tremadoc and late Arenig is related to the development of reef mounds. The highest diversity occurred in the middle Arenig, and was the result of the origination of new taxa (among the Streptosolenidae and Nexospongiidae) and the invasion of hexactinellid sponges. The middle Arenig was a critical time in the early history of brachiopods in both basins as they show a significant expansion, which appears to be strongly controlled environmentally. Radiation and immigration episodes among the three investigated groups occur at different times, depending upon their particular biotic characters, and are strongly overprinted by the local tectonic basinal histories. In the time span investigated, trilobite richness in the siliciclastic successions of the Central Andean basin is remarkable and shelf assemblages largely retain a Cambrian aspect. Trilobite and brachiopod diversity and abundance fluctuate according to the lithologies and types of shell beds considered. In the Precordillera basin, brachiopod and sponge diversity is considerable, and shelf assemblages in these carbonate successions display a general Paleozoic aspect. Trilobite diversity and relative abundance in these assemblages do not decrease significantly as it should be expected. The timing of brachiopod and trilobite diversification exhibits a slight decoupling from published global genus-level curves. Processes such as radiation, extinction, and immigration of taxa in local communities are overprinted strongly by geodynamic histories and paleogeographic location. The latter are ultimately responsible for the decoupling of basinal patterns from global trends expected for the Ordovician radiation or the development of evolutionary faunas. A new understanding of processes of the Ordovician radiation arise from the study of diversification patterns and community structure in different paleogeographic settings. Hence, the analysis of local phenomena in their provincial context greatly contributes to the understanding of biases from the global-scale diversification and evolutionary models.
10.2307/3515045|The Musselshell Creek flora (12.0-10.5 Ma) of northern Idaho is used to reconstruct paleoclimatic and paleoecologic parameters of the Pacific Northwest during the late Middle Miocene. Other megafossil and microfossil floral records spanning 12.0-6.4 Ma are unknown from this region. The Musselshell Creek fossil flora, previously undescribed, is preserved in lacustrine clays and sediments that accumulated in a narrow valley surrounded by rugged terrain. Dominant taxa include dicotyledons and conifers. Most of the leaves are preserved as impressions or compressions. Some fossil leaves retained their original pigmentation, cellular anatomy, and organic constituents. Other fossils include excellent remains of pollen and spores, dispersed leaf cuticle, pyritized wood, and disarticulated fish bones. A destructive statistical analysis of one block of sediment, approximately 30 cm x 45 cm (1.5 sq. ft) recovered 14 orders, 23 families, and 34 genera of spermatophyte plant fossils. These floral elements are compared with two other earlier Miocene floras which were similarly sampled. Common megafossil genera include Quercus, Zizyphoides, Taxodium, Alnus, Castanea, Magnolia, Acer, Exbucklandia, Sequoia, Populus, and Betula. The rare occurrence of Ginkgo leaves is a first record of this taxon in the Idaho Miocene. Additional plant taxa are represented by palynomorphs. Common pollen taxa are Pinus, Abies, Carya, Quercus, and Tilia. Most of the megafossil and microfossil flora assemblage is characteristic of a streambank to floodplain environment that existed in a warm to cool temperate climate similar to the modern Mid-Atlantic coast of the United States.
27670437|The soft-bodied Chengjiang fossils show great potential for assessing the forces operating during the burial process, particularly subtle gravitational effects that are often overlooked. Evidence from gravitational sorting is consistent with the assumption that most Chengjiang organisms underwent local transport. Based on an examination of 1295 specimens and orientation frequency data, we found that the Chengjiang animals followed hydrostatic rules and obtained equilibrium during the burial process, resting regularly on bedding planes rather than randomly, as seen in the Burgess Shale. Specific gravity could be one of crucial factors determining the burial orientation of these organisms, even before normal compaction occurs during early diagenesis.
10.2307/3515603|Rare Earth Element (REE) signatures have been used to test whether mosasaur bones in a basal Hornerstown Formation bonebed (the Main Fossiliferous Layer, or MFL) in New Jersey were reworked from the underlying Maastrichtian beds or deposited synchronously with the bones of other taxa in the Hornerstown Formation. The interpreted age of the bonebed (Maastrichtian vs. Danian) and the position of the K-T boundary in New Jersey are affected by the possible reworking. Statistical techniques, such as ANOVA and Discriminant Analysis, show that signatures of REE in MFL bones are different from those of bones in either the underlying Navesink Formation or the upper part of the Hornerstown Formation, suggesting a unique depositional setting for this bonebed. REE signatures of the MFL mosasaur bones conform with signatures in bones from other taxa within the MFL, suggesting that their deposition was contemporaneous with that of the other taxa. Thus, the MFL bonebed appears to be Cretaceous in age and the K-T boundary must be in or above the MFL, within the Horners town Formation.
10.2307/3514994|Elongated carbonate mounds ("lithoherms") oriented parallel to prevailing northerly bottom currents at moderate depths (500-700 m) along the western margin of the Little Bahama Bank exhibit a consistent faunal zonation characterized by attached, suspension-feeding invertebrates. The four most abundant macroepibenthic groups (alcyonarians, crinoids, sponges and stylasterid hydrocorals) dominate all hard substrates examined except upcurrent ends and crests of lithoherms. We recognize three faunal zones on these mounds: a Coral Zone (Lophelia prolifera) restricted to the upcurrent end; a Zoanthid Zone (?Gerardia sp.) along upcurrent crests, and a Crinoid/Alcyonarian Zone along lithoherm flanks and downstream crests. Taxa characteristic of the latter also occur on surrounding, low-relief hardgrounds but are accompanied by additional taxa usually absent from mounds. Intervening unconsolidated sediment is largely barren. Biozonation appears chiefly dependent on current flow regime and secondarily on substrate. The observed zonation occurs over a much smaller areal scale than previously reported for deep-water (non-hydrothermal) hard bottoms. Abrupt, small-scale faunal zonation can no longer automatically be considered as evidence of a shallow-water environment in interpreting fossil assemblages.
3515035|A one-year study of two ponds and one river in Rhode Island was implemented to determine whether Recent freshwater bivalves (Unionidae: Elliptio complanata) secrete aragonite in oxygen isotopic equilibrium with the water in which they grow. Water samples and animals were retrieved from each locality at two-week intervals for one year. The oxygen and carbon stable isotopic composition of the youngest growth increment of the shells (shell edge) and the oxygen isotopic composition of water were measured and compared with the temperatures recorded during sampling, via published equilibrium fractionation relationships. Elliptio does not secrete shell material in equilibrium with the ambient water. The disequilibrium is manifested as an offset of approximately -2%o in the summer and -2.5%o in the winter. Incorporation of metabolic CO<sub>2</sub> may contribute in large part to this offset.
3515751|How well does a death assemblage of marine mammal bones reflect the diversity, species composition, and proportion of bone types in the living fauna? Marine mammal remains were surveyed along the beaches of the Colorado River delta, Baja California, Mexico. Three carcasses and 470 bones were found among 112 localities along 4.0 km of shoreline. The location of each site was recorded and each bone was identified, photographed, and measured and its taphonomic condition was noted. The proportion of bone types found was compared to the proportions known in living marine mammals. The list of species found as bones was compared to the list of species known to live in the northern Gulf of California. The maximum skeletal ratio of skull:vertebrae:ribs:phalanges:girdles/limbs in a typical Gulf of California marine mammal is 1:74:30:56:16. The 28 skulls and 442 post-cranial bones found provided a skeletal ratio of 1:12:3:1:1. Although vertebrae are the most common bones in the bone assemblage, only 316 were found, not the ~2,000 predicted by the 28 skulls, indicating that vertebrae are under-represented. Therefore, skulls provide the best estimate of the minimum number of individuals. Smaller bones appear to be more easily destroyed, buried, or transported away. Most vertebrae were in good condition, suggesting that most bones arrived on the beach recently. Remains of 8 of the 18 species recorded in the northern Gulf were found: Zalophus californianus (California Sea Lion, 8 skulls), Delphinus delphis (Common Dolphin, 7 skulls), Tursiops truncatus (Bottlenose Dolphin, 6 skulls), Phocoena sinus (Vaquita, four skulls), Pseudorca crassidens (False Killer Whale, one skull), Kogia breviceps (Pygmy Sperm Whale, one skull), and a possible Mesoplodon sp. (Beaked Whale, one skull). One Physeter macrocephalus (Sperm Whale) was identified by its large vertebrae. Differences in population size, habitat use, and behavior among species may affect species composition and abundance within the bone assemblage. Migrants and rare species are not as abundant as residents in the bone assemblage. Coastal species are more common than oceanic ones. Marine mammal remains are common within the 3% of Colorado Delta shoreline surveyed, and provide a remarkably good sample of the living fauna. Surveys of mammal remains may be a valuable and cost-effective supplement to aerial and nautical surveys of the live fauna.
10.2307/3515202|Oxygen and carbon isotopic measurements were obtained from microsamples of an adult Laternula elliptica, an infaunal, aragonitic, Antarctic bivalve. The <sup>18</sup>O values of samples from the exterior surface are, on average ( 4.5 %o), similar to calculated values inferred to represent precipitation in equilibrium with ambient environmental conditions. This indicates that bulk samples as well as many microsamples from the exterior surface would provide reliable isotopic estimates of paleotemperatures and paleosalinities. Nevertheless, both oxygen and carbon isotopic values from discrete shell areas may be influenced by vital effects. There is a statistically significant difference in <sup>18</sup>O values of samples along the shell margin (deposited approximately synchronously) from the posterior and ventral region of the shell, and in <sup>13</sup>C values of samples from the anterior, posterior and ventral regions. In addition, <sup>13</sup>C and <sup>18</sup>O values of shell margin samples are positively and linearly related to sample distance measured from the shell umbo. This relation is opposite to that observed in studies where aragonite inorganically precipitated at a slow rate has higher <sup>13</sup>C values than that precipitated at high rates. Comparison of isotopic compositions of aragonitic L. elliptica with the calcitic bivalve Adamussium colbecki collected at the same location and time demonstrates an <sup>18</sup>O enrichment of biogenic aragonite relative to calcite at temperatures below 0<sup></sup> C. Isotopic values from the adult portion of the shell of A. colbecki were found to be reliable indicators of typical environmental conditions. These results demonstrate the potential usefulness of isotopic evidence from fossil L. elliptica and A. colbecki in reconstructing ancient Antarctic seawater temperature/salinity and environments.
10.2307/3515222|Relative paleosol maturities are inversely proportional to the accumulation rates of the sediment upon which they formed, and are therefore excellent relative indicators of how much geologic time elapsed between any two horizons. An empirically-based model is advanced using paleosol maturities to estimate the relative geologic time separating any stratigraphic levels within the lower Eocene Willwood Formation. The revised Willwood time stratigraphy from this analysis helps evaluate the nature, tempo, and possible causes of three major episodes of mammalian appearance and disappearance. These faunal events are directly correlated with certain aspects of paleosol evolution in the Willwood Formation. That evolution is tied directly to climatic changes and to varying sediment accumulation rates in response to tectonism. The first faunal turnover occurs at the base of the Willwood Formation. It coincides with a major increase in pedogenic maturity, reflecting a major decrease in sediment accumulation rate, and accompanying general climatic warming at about the time of the Paleocene-Eocene boundary. Throughout the remainder of Willwood time, there was a gradual, yet continual, decrease in paleosol maturity and degree of hydromorphy, probably related to the progressive structural elevation of the Owl Creek antiform bounding the south and southeast margins of the Bighorn Basin. This gradual decrease was punctuated by two intervals of more significant decline in paleosol maturity and in the incidence of hydromorphic soils. Both intervals are also marked by faunal turnovers. These sedimentologic and biologic events may reflect tectonic pulses, periods when the rate of basin subsidence increased more rapidly.
10.2307/3515128|The Holocene marshes and sandflats of the North Norfolk coast contain abundant fossiliferous concretions composed mainly of siderite, calcite and iron monosulfides. Mineral formation is rapid, whole concretions forming in tens of years with visible mineralization occurring in months. Aragonitic shells in concretions are more highly sideritized than those composed of calcite. Replacement was initiated with the infilling of primary skeletal voids but continued with the shell itself preserving shell lamination but not crystal morphology. Stable isotope analysis (carbon and oxygen) of sideritized shell yields similar results to original shell suggesting the latter provided the carbonate source. Replacement of plant material includes (a) coating and replacement of cell walls only, (b) wall replacement by siderite and cell infilling with siderite or iron monosulfide, and (c) infilling of root and stem molds with acicular and/or botryoidal siderite, iron monosulfides and high-magnesian calcite. Biogenic nuclei (aragonitic, calcitic, or carbonaceous) were entombed in the marsh sediments for up to 18 months. Authigenic siderites precipitated only around aragonitic nuclei. Although the sediments are characterized by exceedingly active iron diagenesis, concentrations of dissolved iron in porewater rarely exceed 1 ppm. However, tidal pumping produces both vertical and lateral porewater movement. Movement exceeds 60 cm/day in sandy sediments (where concretions are most common). Thus, iron supply to sites of crystal nucleation is increased by more than two orders of magnitude over simple diffusion. Tidal pumping may be important to the rapid growth of concretions. Significantly, a tidal influence has recently been proposed for the Carboniferous Mazonian delta complex of Illinois, a locality famed for exceptionally preserved soft-bodied organisms and presumably rapid concretion growth.
10.2307/3515113|Detailed palynological analysis of depositional environments in carbonaceous shales and marlstones in the Cenomanian-Turonian (C-T) interval of the Cretaceous Western Interior seaway indicates that: (1) dinoflagellate species diversity, (2) ratio of Spiniferites to Cyclonephelium (S/C ratio) and (3) depositional organic facies are collectively useful for distinguishing cycles of marine transgression and regression. The increase in number of dinoflagellate species and of the S/C ratio within a matrix of abundant amorphous debris is interpreted to have resulted from the expansion of an epeiric seaway during sea level rise. The marked drop in dinoflagellate species diversity in the interval of mixed amorphous debris and detrital inertinite adjacent to the ammonite Sciponoceras gracile-Neocardioceras juddii ammonite zonal boundary, and prior to or at the C-T boundary, indicates two short periods of shoreline progradation. The S/C ratio increases in the offshore direction as well as in the transgressive intervals. The largest number of dinoflagellate species occurs in the lower part of transgressive intervals, and not in peak transgression. The successive decrease in species diversity from the early stage to late stage within transgressive intervals and into the next highstand interval is the result of shoreline progradation. The down-lap surface (maximum starvation surface) which delimits the boundary between the transgressive and highstand intervals can be indicated by an inflection in the trend of decreasing species diversity. The position of the inflection point within the C-T transgressive sequence shows the same trend as the position of the condensed interval. It shifts higher in the transgressive sequence in the offshore direction.
10.2307/3514976|Regular and irregular echinoid fragments from standardized bulk sediment samples from the Northern Bay of Safaga, Red Sea, Egypt, show a highly differentiated distribution which can be correlated to bottom facies types. The identification of echinoid fragments is possible upon comparison to living and complete skeletons, because of the numerous morphological features which characterize the test and spines. The distribution of fragments can be understood as a function of the presence of living taxa and taphonomic processes such as transport and time-averaging. The study of fragments should be useful in delineating the distribution of sea urchins in paleobiological studies, despite the methodological size restriction, different taphonomic pathways of the diverse taxa, and limited habitat mixing.
3515684|A neoichnological resin cast of modern burrows from a mudflat at Willapa Bay, Washington, reveals much of the architecture of the infaunal community present locally within sediments of this mudflat. The cast structures comprise Psilonichnus-, Skolithos-, Trichichnus-, Chondrites(?)-, Planolites-, Palaeophycus-, and Arenicolites-like burrows. The range of behaviors represented by these structures cannot be classified into an archetypal (Seilacherian) ichnofacies. The resin cast contains many coeval, composite burrows that may reflect certain commensal relationships. Notable composite associations include: (1) siphon shafts of Mya arenaria that are connected to and descend from crab domiciles; (2) an example of a pair of infaunal Mya arenaria that share a single siphonate shaft; (3) abundant Heteromastus burrows that connect to crab and bivalve burrows; and, (4) Nereis burrows that are connected to crab domiciles. It is suggested that such contemporaneous relationships, if passed into the fossil record, might be misinterpreted as representing tiering or faunal succession. The reported observations provide a new perspective on the potential significance of interpenetrating trace fossils and complex ichnofabrics.
25835598|A singular lower Aptian lithofacies from the western Maestrat Basin (Iberian Chain) highlights the reaction of carbonate platform paleocommunities to natural disturbances of regional to global significance. It is composed mainly of sand- to cobble-sized coral rubble rigidly bound by Lithocodium aggregatum and is coeval with the early Aptian Oceanic Anoxic Event (OAE1a) and the intensified greenhouse conditions connected with this event. Severe storms induced by high atmospheric concentrations of CO had a recurrent catastrophic impact on coral populations, giving rise to sub-basinwide coral rubble levels. Physical responses to elevated atmospheric CO levels, such as increased nutrient fluxes, together with low sedimentation rates, and the presence of a hard substratum, favored the mass occurrence of Lithocodium crusts, large flattened Palorbitolina lenticularis, and bioeroders such as lithophagid bivalves and endolithic sponges. These encrusted coral rubble deposits are here interpreted as records of chemical and physical disturbances linked to the OAE1a. Due to significant extension and normal faulting recorded in the lower Aptian of the western Maestrat Basin, however, earthquake-induced natural stresses might also have played a part in the generation and reworking of these coral rubble deposits.
25835618|Herein we report an analysis of an Oxfordian (Upper Jurassic) paleoreef located in the Swiss Jura Mountains. The paleoreef is located in a Middle Oxfordian transitional interval in which sedimentation switched from marl-dominated to carbonate-dominated deposits. The paleoecosystem is composed of four successive fossil communities characterized by microsolenid corals and organisms that specialized in suspension feeding. Carbon isotopes measured from echinoid spine carbonates exhibit a positive trend from 1.0% to 2.5% in C values from the base to the top of the paleoreef. Comparison of C curves with organic matter and belemnites shows different patterns not compatible with a global variation of the carbon cycle. Similar fossil assemblages and stratigraphic sequences identical in age are found along the continental margin of the TethysAtlantic Ocean. This biolithostratigraphic succession corresponds to increasing C values of marine and biogenic carbonates, to the transition from marl-dominated to carbonate-dominated deposits, and to the development of carbonate platforms, which together suggest a change in the carbon cycling regime within the TethysAtlantic Ocean system.
10.2307/3514619|Paleoenvironments are interpreted from the taphonomy of freshwater mollusc assemblages in the Tongue River Member of the Fort Union Formation (Paleocene) in the northern Powder River Basin, Wyoming and Montana. The composition, species abundances, and spatial and temporal distributions of these assemblages were controlled by the environments in which the molluscs lived and the depositional processes that affected the molluscs after death and before final burial. Post-mortem transport, reworking and concentration of shells, and mixing of faunal elements from discrete habitats produced a taphonomic "overprint" on assemblage characteristics that directly reflects the processes of alluvial plain and floodbasin lacustrine sedimentation. The "overprint" can be interpreted from outcrop analysis of molluscan biofabric, which consists of: 1) orientation, fragmentation, size-sorting, abrasion, density, and dispersion of shells, 2) the nature and extent of shell-infilling, and 3) ratio of articulated to disarticulated bivalves. In this study, taphonomic characteristics were used with sedimentological properties to differentiate in-place, reworked, transported, and ecologically mixed mollusc assemblages. This study also defines the paleoecology of habitat preferences of mollusc species as a basis for recognition of the environments in which these assemblages were deposited: 1) large floodbasin lakes (on- and off-shore), 2) small floodbasin lakes, and 3) crevasse deltas and splays. Integration of sedimentology and paleoecology provides an interdisciplinary approach to the interpretation of alluvial environments through time in the Tongue River Member.
10.2307/3514476|Growth rates of corals on Holocene reefs indicate that carbonate platforms should easily keep pace with long-term subsidence and sea-level changes, yet drowned reefs and platforms are common in the geologic record. Recognition of the negative influence of nutrients on reef communities provides a clue to that paradox. The primary carbonate-sediment producers of the coral reef community are highly adapted to nutrient-deficient environments. Input of nitrates and phosphates stimulates growth of plankton, which reduces water transparency, limiting depth ranges of zooxanthellate corals and calcareous algae and thereby reducing carbonate production. Higher nutrient concentrations and plankton densities also stimulate growth of fleshy algae and ahermatypic suspension-feeding animals in the benthos. Besides displacing hermatypic algae and corals, many of these fast-growing competitors are bioeroders that actively destroy the reefal structure. Because rates of carbonate production and bioerosion are similar, even modest increases in nutrient availability can shift a reef community from net production to net erosion. In the geologic record, drowned reefs and carbonate platforms typically exhibit evidence of nondeposition, bioerosion, and reduced redox potential, which indicate excess nutrient availability during drowning. Drowned reefs overlain by shales are possible victims of nutrients in terrestrial runoff that suppressed reef growth before arrival of siliciclastic sediments. Other drowned platforms may have succumbed during rapid pulses of sea-level rise that flooded previously subaerial platforms. Nutrients in the soils of the flooding platform were mixed into surface waters, suppressing reef growth. The reef drowned if submergence proceeded beyond the critical depth before the excess nutrients were exported from the system. Other mechanisms for reef drowning by excess nutrients include changes in local or regional upwelling patterns or mid-ocean overturn.
10.2307/3515372|Unusually abundant, diverse, and well-preserved assemblages of silicified chitons (Polyplacophora, Mollusca), dominated by Chelodes, from the Silurian of Gotland, Sweden, have a very limited stratigraphic and facies distribution. The Gotland succession (upper Llandovery-upper Ludlow) represents a segment of a low-latitude, low-angle carbonate ramp, with major reef systems, and is characterized by rich benthic faunas. Chitons are concentrated within two intervals in the late Wenlock (Gothograptus nassa-Pristiograptus ludensis biozones) and late Ludlow (Saetograptus leintwardinensis-Bohemograptus bohemicus tenuis-Neocucullograptus kozlowskii biozones), which correspond to periods of lowstand recognized as sequence stratigraphic boundaries. At both horizons, detailed carbonate lithofacies relationships indicate inshore, very shallow shelf zones with reduced sedimentation, and at the higher level there is karstification. Chitons are not preserved in situ but are derived very locally. Among high-energy calcarenites, assemblages are poorly preserved and of low diversity; the best preservation, of a high-diversity assemblage including small and delicate sclerites, occurs among pockets of soft-bottom, possibly lagoonal sediments associated with tidal, reef-shoal environments. Recent chitons are most common and diverse in high littoral to intertidal zones of rocky shores. Such environments have low preservation potential, and chitons have a sparse fossil record. The Gotland chitons are paleoloricates, but evidence from cyclic growth variations on sclerites suggests similar life histories to Recent, neoloricate chitons. Reconstructions based on sclerite morphology and degree of overlap illustrate the diverse assemblage; some are notably elongate by comparison with Recent chitons. The highly localized distribution of chitons on Gotland appears to reinforce broader carbonate lithofacies and biofacies evidence of proximity to the shoreline, or to emergent tidal flats, of the Baltoscandian Basin.
10.2307/3515564|Bone bed 43 is one of at least eight paucispecific Centrosaurus bone beds located in the Dinosaur Park Formation (Upper Campanian) in Dinosaur Provincial Park, Alberta, Canada. It long has been used as a case example for evidence of herding and social behavior in dinosaurs, but a detailed analysis of the site has not been presented until this study The bone bed is dominated by the disarticulated, mostly fragmentary and slightly abraded remains of Centrosaurus apertus, with minor occurrences of other taxa, notably teeth from the large tyrannosaurid Albertosaurus libratus. Fossils occur in a stacked to amalgamated succession of lag deposits, deposited and reworked at the erosional base of a paleochannel. The most parsomonious scenerio suggests that Centrosaurus material represents part of a large aggregation of animals (possibly numbering in the thousands) that died by drowning on the alluvial plain. Disarticulation occurred at a point upriver from the bonebed site. Scavenging by theropods, primarily Albertosaurus, at or near the original site of death is suggested by the high number of shed theropod teeth. A subsequent event prior to fossilisation moved the material to its present location removing many juvenile-sized and hydrodynamically light elements from the original death assemblage. Evidence for distinct size classes amongst the preserved elements is not supported by the data, but the size range of elements preserved are representative of living individuals that would have ranged from small juveniles to mature adults. The large data base of specimens from bone bed 43 allows for the illustration of the ontogenetic changes that occurred in the diagnostic cranial elements of Centrosaurus.
10.2307/3514951|In view of recent controversy over the number and timing of late Eocene impact events, we evaluated biostratigraphic correlations at Deep Sea Drilling Project (DSDP) Site 612, New Jersey continental slope. Site 612, Core 21, Section 5 contains a tektite horizon which includes distinct microkrystite and microtektite layers (Glass, 1989). Ranges of magnetostratigraphically calibrated marker taxa firmly constrain the biostratigraphic position of these layers, although planktonic foraminiferal zonal criteria are equivocal for the upper Eocene at Site 612. Radiolarian and foraminiferal biostratigraphy indicate that the tektite layer at Site 612 is biostratigraphically older than a microtektite layer in Barbados which has been correlated with the North American strewn field. The Site 612 tektites are approximately 0.5-1.0 m.y. older than the Barbados microtektites. This conclusion is supported by compositional and isotope differences between the Site 612 tektites and the Barbados microtektites (Koeberl, 1988; Glass, 1989; Stecher et al., 1989), and requires that there were 3 or 4 separate late Eocene impact events. An alternative interpretation correlates the Barbados microtektites with the Site 612 tektites using <sup>40</sup>Ar-<sup>39</sup>Ar age measurements and some compositional similarities; this requires that biostratigraphic first and last occurrences were diachronous by  0.7 m.y. or extremely high sedimentation rates at Site 612. Strontium and oxygen isotope stratigraphies are consistent with magnetobiostratigraphic correlations. The late Eocene impact events do not correlate with climate changes inferred from the marine isotope record.
27670480|Analysis of Middle Triassic data indicates that biogeography influences sample distributions, whereas depositional environment and stratigraphic position play secondary roles in governing sample patterns. During this time, taxa differed among biogeographic realms, while the general ecology remained the same: epifaunal benthospedunculate and epibyssate suspension feedersdominate Middle Triassic samples much as they did in the Early Triassic. In contrast, Late Triassic data prove to be more complex in terms of ecology compared to Middle Triassic. Here, guild structure dictates the faunal patterns in addition to biogeographic realm and stratigraphic position, and an overall increase of infaunal life habits occursburrowing suspension and deposit feeders increase. Although diversity after mass extinction began to recover at the Early-Middle Triassic boundary, our results indicate that ecology remained stable through the Middle Triassic until the more modern life habits (e.g., infaunalization) increased in the Late Triassic. We conclude that the taxonomic and ecological differences among Late Triassic geographic regions recorded the initiation of a more mobile and infaunal life habit indicative of a modern lifestyle. Our results also indicate that this modernization did not necessarily unfold simultaneously and in coordinated fashion within regions and throughout time. Instead, details of guild expansion or stability may be region specific.
25835651|Neoichnological experiments with freshwater ostracodes document different morphological types of traces, their associated behavior in various water depths and media (=substrates) in controlled microcosms, and the potential for their identification in the fossil record. In uncompacted, very fine- to medium-grained sand, the nektobenthic freshwater ostracode Heterocypris incongruens produced seven trace types: three crawling trails, a swimming trail, a resting trace, a burrow, and a self-righting trace. The most common crawling trails (Type 1) are randomly sinuous with infrequent looping. Two other crawling trails are observed infrequently and were self-looping (Type 2) and zigzagging (Type 7). Swimming trails (Type 3) are straight to sinuous and composed of a parallel set of appendage scratch marks. Crawling and swimming trails likely indicate exploratory or foraging behaviors associated with locomotion. Oval-shaped depressions (Type 4) commonly occur and represent a resting behavior. Burrowing produced asymmetrical U-shaped burrows (Type 5) and represents hiding from a stimulus or a foraging behavior. A fan-shaped trace of appendage scratches (Type 6) was produced when H. incongruens righted itself after landing upside down in the sediment. No traces were observed in coarse or very coarse sand, but ostracodes were observed pushing and toppling sand grains. Preservation potential of ostracode traces in freshwater environments is likely low. Traces were observed to degrade and fill in with sediment within 2448 hours after formation or were destroyed immediately in water currents that disrupted the sediment surface. Ostracode traces are likely preserved best when formed below storm wave base and buried rapidly, or prior to desiccation in an ephemeral environment. After desiccation, only gross morphology of the traces is observed and desiccation cracks tend to follow crawling trails.
27670609|The benthic foraminiferal turnover and extinction event (BEE) associated with the negative carbon isotope excursion (CIE) across the PaleoceneEocene Thermal Maximum (PETM) is analyzed in the Zumaia section (Spain), one of the most complete and expanded deep-water sequences known worldwide. New biostratigraphic, paleoecologic, and paleoenvironmental data on benthic foraminifera are correlated to information on planktic foraminiferal and calcareous nannofossil turnover in order to evaluate possible causes and consequences of the PETM. Gradual but rapid extinction of 18% of the benthic foraminiferal species starts at the onset of the CIE, after the initial ocean warming (as inferred from calcareous nannofossils) recorded in the last 46 kyr of the Paleocene. This gradual extinction event culminated 10.5 kyr after the onset of the CIE and led to the main BEE, affecting 37% of the species. Therefore, extinctions across the PETM affected a total of 55% of the benthic foraminiferal species at Zumaia. The gradual extinction occurred under inferred oxic conditions without evidence for carbonate dissolution, indicating that carbonate corrosivity and oxygenation of the ocean bottom waters were not the main cause of the event. An interval characterized by dissolution occurs above the main BEE, suggesting that bottom waters became corrosive after the main extinction. Carbonate is progressively better preserved through the overlying deposits, and carbon isotope values gradually return to background levels. These data are consistent with a slow deepening of the carbonate compensation depth after its initial rise owing to abrupt acidification of the oceans. Microfossil data support a rapid onset of the PETM, followed by long-term effects on calcareous plankton and benthic foraminifera.
27670365|Large, well-preserved carpofloras from Miocene and Pliocene lignite-bearing sequences of the Lower Rhine Basin in Germany occur in a variety of fluvial and lacustrine facies, including channel, point-bar, cut-off channel (oxbow-lake), crevasse-splay, channel-bar (sand-gravel flat), and lake-delta deposits. Despite their occurrence in a wide spectrum of depositional facies, the accumulations share a suite of distinctive characteristics. They appear as a jumble of woody material dominated by abraded pieces of wood, including conifer cones, woody fruits, seeds, small branches, and charcoal in an unconsolidated matrix of medium- or coarse-grained sand. The key characteristic of the fossil plant remains is woodiness. Close association between the lignified material and these grain sizes indicates that these woody fruits are hydrodynamically equivalent to medium-to coarse-sized sand, and were transported as bedload during flood events. Transport by bedload also is evidenced by the high degree of roundness in associated wood clasts, by abrasion in some diaspores, and by the lack of non-resistant plant parts (e.g., leaves, flowers, fleshy or delicate tissues) in the accumulations. Thus, the lignified plant remains behave as sedimentary clasts in the water column, but only after they have been fully saturated with water. Mass carpological accumulations in very coarse-grained sand on active point bars in the Sieg River near Bonn and their formation during events of extreme discharge serve as a modern analog for the fossil carpofloras. New terminology and concepts pertaining to these mass carpological deposits, or "bedload carpodeposits," also include the terms "bedload carpobiofacies," and "bedload carpolithofacies." A basic depositional model for the genesis of bedload carpodeposits is presented.
10.2307/3515157|With the possible exception of some older aggregations of tubicolous skeletal forms, bioherms in the Pestrotsvet Formation (Tommotian) of the southeastern Siberian Platform represent Earth's earliest metazoan-mediated reefs. They are certainly the earliest known bioconstructions of metazoan-calcimicrobial type. The bioherms are geographically limited to the transitional facies tract of the Siberian Platform, separating restricted lagoonal from deep ramp and slope sediments. Bioherms are intergrowths of archaeocyaths, calcimicrobes (Renalcis) and rare coralomorphs (Cysticyathus) in lime mudstone which was cemented early on the sea floor. They consist of meter-scale mounds occurring either singly or stacked together. Mounds can be categorized into component domains occupied by associations of lime mud, archaeocyaths, calcimicrobes and cement. Some mounds are simply a conglomeration of such domains, with no discernible pattern of internal distribution, while others possibly show incipient ecological succession. The calcimicrobe Renalcis was the major bioconstructor; it and the synsedimentary cement were the principal contributors to framework construction. Archaeocyaths of themselves rarely produced a framework, except where stereoplasm was abundant. Nevertheless, the archaeocyaths provided substrates for the Renalcis and cement, and facilitated the development of internal cavities. Archaeocyaths appeared, as bioconstructors, in the basal Tommotian sunnaginicus Zone. In the succeeding regularis Zone and thereafter, they flourished throughout the mounds, in some cases forming thickets of large sticklike cups atop mature mounds. The bioconstructional regime established in these Tommotian bioherms prevailed throughout the Early Cambrian reef-building phase, particularly in argillaceous limestone facies. Likewise, the trophic web of this very early Cambrian community remained a blueprint for shallow water, open marine habitats throughout the epoch.
10.2307/3514956|Two carapaces of the hawksbill turtle (Eretmochelys imbricata) were buried in intertidal calcareous sands in a lagoonal setting of the Seychelles Islands ( Indian Ocean). After three weeks, one of the carapaces was still in its original position but decay had resulted in the loss of most marginal plates and all ligaments; reworking of the specimen would have led to complete disarticulation. The second specimen, however, was reworked four days after burial and swept into the subtidal part of the lagoon; complete disarticulation and burial of disintegrated bones occurred within ten days. These taphonomic patterns are compared to similar ones from Upper Jurassic deposits of Central Europe. Additionally, isolated turtle bones were sampled at low tide along three different beach transects; orientation and position to substrate were noted. The accumulation of isolated bones on the beach showed preferred orientation maxima ( perpendicular to the shore) and submaxima (parallel to longshore currents).
10.2307/3514815| Sea level movements with quasi-periodicity of 430,000 years are identified in the marine sedimentary units of the Eastern Gulf Coastal Plain of Mississippi, Alabama and Georgia which represent a 5.8 million year record of strandline displacement during Paleocene time. Principal component analysis of the benthic foraminiferal fauna yielded six assemblages which when combined with two other qualitatively derived assemblages provided paleoecologic information which clearly reflects the influence of paleocirculation and paleoclimatic regime of the Eastern Gulf Coastal Plain. The presence of the planktonic foraminiferal taxa Subbotina trinidadensis and Planorotalites pseudomenardii as well as paleolatitudes ranging from 15 N (for the Campeche Shelf) to 25N (for the Coastal Plain) emphasizes a paleoclimatic regime which is dominantly tropical. A paleoceanographic model was derived which suggests that normal marine waters were brought into the Gulf of Mexico by two major currents: 1) the easterly flowing Pacific countercurrent which when deflected by the southernmost Gulf margin generated a minor cyclonic flow around the Campeche Shelf and 2) the west flowing equatorial Atlantic current generated by the southern margin of the North Atlantic anticyclonic gyre which fed the Central and Northern Gulf. When integrated into the paleoceanographic model, the distribution of continental shelf benthic foraminiferal assemblages indicates a pattern which is dominantly controlled by: 1) the character of the circulation, 2) water mass properties, 3) latitudes and climate, 4) distance from the strandline. Strandline displacements are related to transgressive and regressive sea level movements in an ice free Paleocene world. The well delineated 430,000 year quasi-periodic cycle observed in the sea level curve is identified as being astronomical in character. These results support the view that changes in the earth's orbit may trigger changes in the geometry of the Earth's surface in a way which causes sea level to oscillate with a quasi-periodicity of 430,000 years. 
25835642|We document massive deposition of carbonate sands along the south shore of Bermuda that were emplaced during one or two great storms during the last interglacial. As determined by their stratigraphic position and geochronological data, these deposits formed during marine isotope substage (MIS) 5c ca. 100 ka ago. Within a leeward set of eolian beds, evidence of a living landscape was preserved that includes delicate footprints of a shorebird (Scolopacidae, Catoptrophorus) preserved in frothy dune foreset beds. In the same stratigraphic unit, outlines of a standing forest of palm trees (Sabal bermudana), some evidently with fronds in place, were molded in the fine carbonate dune sand. All available evidence points to an MIS 5c sea level positioned several meters below the present datum, which would require great intensity of storms to transport such voluminous deposits well above present sea level. Waves and storm currents transported loose sediments from the shallow shelf onto the shore, where hurricane winds piled up sand sufficiently deep to bury established forests of 8- to 10-m-tall trees. Evidence of such powerful storms preserved in the rock record is a measure of the intensity of past hurricanes, and a possible bellwether of future storm events. Entombment of the trees involved rapid burial and cementation creating external molds in limestone, a process that is important in the development of vertical hydrological conduits commonly observed in eolianites.
10.2307/3515311|Palsas are peat mounds with permafrost cores that occur in regions of discontinuous permafrost. The distribution and stratigraphic context of clastic dikes in a mid-Permian coal seam in Antarctica, together with geochemical, paleobotanical, and carbon isotopic data, are interpreted as indicators of ancient palsas of a cool-temperate paleoclimate. Clusters of clastic dikes in a coal seam from the mid-Permian Weller Coal Measures are characterized by massive fill from overlying sandstones and irregular spacing. These features are unlike the laminated fill and regular spacing associated with ice or soil wedges of polygonal patterned ground. Above the clastic dike-bearing coal, lenses of lacustrine shales in sandstones conform directly to the extent of clastic dikes. Geochemically, the clastic dike-bearing coal seam has a significantly lower ash content than stratigraphically adjacent coals that lack dikes. The clustered assemblage of clastic dikes is analogous to the distribution of cracks observed in modern palsas. A low ash content is characteristic of (but not restricted to) raised peat structures, such as palsas. The overlying lacustrine shale lenses may represent depressions that formed after melting of the permafrost core and collapse of the palsa mound. A paleo-palsa interpretation, when added to data from coal stratigraphy, paleobotany, and isotope geochemistry, may indicate a change from frigid, glacial conditions in the Early Permian to cold temperate conditions in the mid-Permian. The basal part of the Weller Coal Measures section lacks coals and contains alluvial siltstones with striated pebbles and definite dropstones, suggestive of a glacially influenced paleoclimate. Thin, Early Permian coals occur stratigraphically higher and contain leaves of the species Gangamopteris, interpreted as a taiga-like plant. The clastic dike-bearing coal seam occurs in mid-Permian strata that contain thicker and laterally more continuous coals than found in Early Permian sequences. The mid-Permian coals are associated with abundant Vertebraria roots and Glossopteris leaves, thought to represent deciduous forests of cold-temperate conditions. Stable carbon isotopes from underclays show a trend from highly fluctuating values in the Early Permian to homogeneous values in the mid-Permian. Highly variable <sup>13</sup>C values could have been produced by frequent freeze-thaw episodes, whereas the uniform <sup>13</sup>C values are thought to indicate less frigid soil temperatures. Thus, <sup>13</sup>C chemostratigraphy supports the interpretation of paleoclimatic change from frigid to permafrost-free conditions, indicated by coal stratigraphy and paleobotany.
27670477|Death assemblages from contemporary marginal marine settings carved into ancient shell deposits are composed of fossil shells exhumed by currents or tides and shells derived from living populations. A better understanding of the bias produced by such a mixing process is of interest for studies that use modern death assemblages as analogues of similar past habitats. In order to evaluate the magnitude of reworking and redeposition of fossil shells in modern environments, a taxonomic (composition, abundance, and richness) and taphonomic (taphofacies) study was carried out in the Mar Chiquita coastal lagoon, Argentina (3740S, 5720W). The nature and extent of reworking was explored along a gradient in tidal energy from the outer to the inner reaches of the coastal lagoon. Results indicate that modern death assemblages in the lagoon are composed mostly of fossil (late Holocene) reworked shells and that reworking varies along a gradient in tidal energy, being higher in the outer reaches of the coastal lagoon, where tidal action is more significant. Temporal mixing in the coastal lagoon appears to be associated with condensation (remani) rather than with a subtle mixing of shells, as occurs in time-averaged deposits. This reworking process leads to an abundance of old shells in modern death assemblages, which has negative consequences for their utilization as modern analogues of past lagoons. Multidisciplinary studies involving various biological indicators need to take this type of bias into consideration in order to avoid erroneous inferences on the Quaternary evolution of coastal lagoons.
10.2307/3515561|Small buildups of chaetetids and associated biota in the Higginsville Limestone Member of the Fort Scott Formation (Desmoinesian, Middle Pennsylvanian) are well exposed in three dimensions in an abandoned quarry in Crawford County, Kansas. Regional studies indicate that the buildups were deposited during a relative sea-level highstand, but within normal wave-base, on the southern flank of the Bourbon Arch. The chaetetid facies consists of a fusulinid wackestone to packstone that encloses the chaetetids. In the lower part of the chaetetid interval, chaetetids are small and tabular, but gradually upsection they grade into larger domical forms that sometimes form tall, ragged columns. These, in turn, coalesce upward to form large masses (boundstone) up to 6 m across. At the top of the bed, the chaetetid masses and surrounding matrix are covered by intertidal to supratidal, coastal, and / or terrigenous facies, indicating a shallowing of sea level to the point that chaetetid growth was terminated. Attachment surfaces for individual chaetetids initially involved partially lithified sediment or shell fragments, whereas within the columns they attached to underlying chaetetids, Multithecopora or algal overgrowths on underlying chaetetids, or thin sediment layers that define growth interruptions within the columns. Apparent maximum relief of chaetetids relative to the seafloor during growth was from 30 to 45 cm. Cross laminations in the matrix and some toppling of chaetetids indicate a moderately high-energy paleoenvironment. Ragged margins of the chaetetids accompanied by overlying thin sediment layers, and periodic overgrowths by the tabulate coral Multithecopora and encrusting algae, indicate growth interruptions instigated by periodic influxes of sediment or other environmental factors. Abundant fossils are present on and among the chaetetids, including brachiopods, bryozoans, rugose corals, crinoids, echinoids, gastropods, encrusting algae, ostracodes, and foraminiferids. Many of them are apparently in life positions, indicating a diverse, stenohaline biota living in this environment. Chaetetid masses are relatively evenly distributed throughout the quarry and, thus, give no indication of an end to the buildup in any direction, or of a windward or leeward orientation. Directional indicators within the rocks and linear trends of the buildups suggest a paleocurrent that moved in a northeasterly direction. Apparently the environment of deposition was relatively uniform, flat, shallow, well-aerated, and open marine, at some distance from shore. At the time of deposition, this area was within 10 degrees of the paleoequator. Changes in rainfall, ocean circulation, mixing, aeration, and nutrient input are reflected in the rocks and by their preserved biota. Black shale represents the least mixing and aeration, the phylloid algal limestone suggests low turbidity and possibly low salinity but well-aerated and nutrient-rich marine conditions, and the chaetetid interval represents normal marine salinity and low nutrient input with the best circulation, mixing, and aeration. Recent studies of growth rates in extant coralline sponges suggest that the chaetetid bed of this study represents a minimum of 10,000 to nearly 20,000 years of deposition, and the largest individual chaetetid in this bed may have lived over 3,000 years. The relatively thin transitional bed between the underlying phylloid algal limestone and the chaetetid bed represents several hundred years of deposition. The limestone bed overlying the chaetetid bed contains a few chaetetids that may have lived up to 400-800 years, and it contains evidence of a tidal cycle of strong and weak tides.
10.2307/3515277|Taphonomic experiments on bird carcasses were carried out at two field sites in southern Florida, a brackish swamp and a marine embayment. Observations were made on carcasses protected by metal cages, and unprotected carcasses. Scavengers were the primary agent of degradation in the case of unprotected carcasses. The sequence of morphological decay was similar in brackish and marine conditions, and there was no significant difference in the rate of weight loss. This provides a basis for the interpretation of fossil examples from selected Lagersttten: Solnhofen (Jurassic), and Messel, Green River and Seymour Island (Eocene). These fossil avifaunas show varying degrees of transport-induced disarticulation, reflecting the original habitat of the birds and the conditions of deposition. A decay equation derived from experimentally produced weight-loss data allows the time elapsed between death and stabilization of the carcass to be estimated for fossil birds. This provides constraints on taphonomic interpretations of the Lagersttten in which they occur.
25835604|In this paper we report on a rare fossil vertebrate burrow system in Upper Triassic (Norian) fluvial deposits of the Holy Cross Mountains in central Poland. The burrows are preserved mainly by prominent green infillings in red mudstone and claystone exposed in the wall of a clay pit. The mode of occurrence, morphology, and size of the burrows suggests that cynodont therapsids most likely constructed them.
10.2307/3514998|Crabs are a major component of modern marine ecosystems, but are only rarely described in fossil assemblages. Studies of brachyuran taphonomy have examined either the fossil end-products of the taphonomic process or the very earliest stages of decay and decomposition. The next logical step is the analysis of modern crab death assemblages; i.e., studies that examine taphonomic loss in areas where the composition of the living assemblage is known. We studied crab death assemblages in shallow water sediments at several localities in and near Laguna Madre, Texas. Nearly every sample examined contained some crab remains, most commonly in the form of isolated claws (dactyl and propodus). A crab fauna associated with a buried grass bed contained abundant remains of the xanthid crab Dyspanopeus texanus, including carapaces, chelipeds, and thoraxes, as well as fragments of the portunid Callinectes sapidus and the majiid Libinia dubia. Crab remains may be an overlooked portion of many preserved benthic assemblages, both in recent and modern sediments.
3515750|Remarkably different Late Permian-Early Triassic marine records are seen in sections from the western deep-water margin of Pangea (Ursula Creek, British Columbia) and the high paleolatitude, southern margin of the Neotethyan Ocean (Selong, South Tibet). The Ursula Creek section reveals the progressive decline of seafloor oxygen values in the Changxingian Stage (loss of bioturbation, authigenic U enrichment, appearance of pyrite framboid populations), followed by the persistent development of euxinic conditions in the latest Changxingian and throughout the Early Triassic; an event that coincides with the disappearance of a siliceous sponge fauna and the loss of diverse radiolarian populations. The Selong section, which was located on a distal passive margin, records regression and erosion in the mid-Changxingian, followed by a phase of deepening that began in the late Changxingian. The boundary interval is associated with a marked diversity increase due to the appearance of equatorial taxa (foraminifera, brachiopods, and sponges), suggesting warming without extinction in marine waters at high southern paleolatitudes. Only in the late Griesbachian Stage are the diverse Permian holdovers eliminated, again at a level showing evidence for dysoxia (thinly-bedded, authigenic U-enriched, pyrite-rich limestone). Thus, the end-Permian mass extinction is seen to be diachronous by half a million years or more, with late Changxingian extinction in Panathalassa coinciding with diversity increase associated the migration of warm-water taxa into the high southerly paleolatitudes regions of Neotethys.
10.2307/3515565|The extinction of the Morozovella velascoensis lineage, a group of planktonic foraminifera that dominated tropical assemblages for ~6.3 m.y., is investigated using an upper Paleocene / lower Eocene section from the central Pacific Ocean (ODP Site 865). Uppermost stratigraphic occurrences of the lineage consist solely of diminutive M. edgari, a species roughly half the size of its ancestor, M. velascoensis. Eigenshape analysis indicates that adult specimens of M. edgari are morphologically similar to small, presumably juvenile, forms of M. velascoensis. The overall stratigraphic succession, where the uppermost occurrences of a lineage are represented by relict populations of minute, juvenilized forms, is consistent with a process called "terminal progenesis". Various lines of evidence indicate that stress-induced size reduction foreshadowed the extinction of other planktonic foraminiferal lineages as well. The ecological cause(s) for the extinction of ancestral M. velascoensis is unclear. Stable isotopic evidence for a progressive deterioration of algal symbiosis was not detected. Specifically, none of the individually-analyzed shells of M. velascoensis were depleted significantly in <sup>13</sup>C, nor was there a decrease in the covariance of the <sup>13</sup>C/size relationship. Planktonic foraminiferal <sup>18</sup>O values exhibit a subtle increase over the stratigraphic interval in which the M. edgari extinction is recorded. This inferred tropical cooling appears to be correlative with terrestrial records of cooling from the North American continental interior and northwestern Europe. Thus, it is postulated that climatic variation during the earliest Eocene (~54.02Ma) played a significant role in shaping biodiversity in the pelagic realm, sealing the doom of the declining M. velascoensis lineage.
27670499|The Glossifungites ichnofacies recognized in Cretaceous strata (Cerro Toro Formation) of the Magallanes foreland basin in southern Chile represents an important discovery in that it extends the stratigraphic utility of firmground trace-fossil suites into thick-bedded, gravity-flow deposits of submarine fan-channel environments. The trace-fossil suite consists of atypically large Diplocraterion, Skolithos, and Arenicolites, which may reach an inferred length of 7 m. The burrows penetrate muddy, matrix-supported conglomeratic deposits dewatered and consolidated as a result of burial and subsequently exhumed by erosive turbidity currents. In a stratigraphic succession dominated by coarse-grained facies >350 m thick, the burrows are abundant at one stratigraphic horizon correlatable up to 200 km2. This horizon is interpreted as a stratigraphic discontinuity associated with a long-term cessation of coarse-grained, sediment-laden gravity flows into the basin. The colonized surface is the only marker horizon traceable across much of the Magallanes basin study area.
10.2307/3514813|The Pliocene Imperial Formation, Salton Trough region, California, locally overlies metamorphic basement at contacts representing rocky shorelines. Rocky shore occurrences are best developed as probable wavecut notches in marble basement which contain dense concentrations of marine borings. The borings, which represent an in situ rocky shore community, consist of Gastrochaenolites (produced by the bivalve Lithophaga), Entobia (produced by clionid sponges), Typanites (produced by worms or barnacles), Maeandropolydora (produced by polychaetes), and shallow pits produced by echinoids. This community represents the Typanites ichnofacies and has close parallels in other Neogene boring assemblages along carbonate rocky shores. Encrusting epifauna associated with the borings include barnacles and corals. Coastal sedimentation along the rocky shorelines is represented by a high-energy facies of skeletal limestone which contains clasts of basement marble supplied by bioerosion.
40606450|Strophomenid brachiopods of the genus Rafinesquina, lying flat, convex-side up on limestone bedding surfaces in the Cincinnati Ordovician, are sometimes associated with moats, which are sediment depressions or gutters ~5-mm wide surrounding the commissure. Moats are interpreted as trace fossils, excavated by water expelled as the valves snapped shut. Other specimens vary from nearly horizontal to nearly vertical with the hinge line down and commissure up. Meniscate backfill beneath the anterior shell margin traces an arcing path formed as the shell rotated upwards around the posterior hinge line. Rotational tracks are interpreted as trace fossils, recording movement from an initial position buried horizontally to an inclined position as the brachiopod tried to escape burial. The traces form a continuum. Specimens lying flat on the bed surface have moats but no rotational tracks. Inclined shells are associated with deeper burial by obrution events and a greater arc of rotation. The moat shape is inconsistent with differential compaction. The precise association between moats and commissures and the independence of these structures on shell azimuth are inconsistent with current scour. If moats formed by rapid expulsion of water during valve snapping, then rotational tracks may have formed by a similar process. These traces are interpreted as fugichnia formed in response to catastrophic burial, but some moats could be equilibrichnia, formed by adjustment to minor sedimentary events. Rotational traces are similar to type 1 structures of Sowerbyella. If these two genera had similar tracemaking abilities, then other strophomenates probably shared these abilities.
40865402|Lake Tanganyika, the world's largest tropical rift lake, is unique among its counterparts in East Africa for the remarkable diversity of mollusk-rich sediments in its littoral zone. Molluscan shell beds are, however, a common feature of ancient lacustrine rift deposits and thus a better understanding of their spatial and temporal development is important. Targeted surveys across the littoral region of the Kigoma Basin reveal three surficial shellrich facies that differ widely in depositional style and geometry. A unifying characteristic of these deposits is the volume of shells of Neothauma tanganycense, a large, viviparous gastropod endemic to the lake. Reservoir-corrected radiocarbon dating indicates that Neothauma deposits in these surficial sediments are time averaged over at least the last ~ 1600 calendar years BP. Preservation of fossil Neothauma shells in the littoral zone depends on both environmental conditions and on post-mortem shell modifications. Interaction between shells and mobile siliciclastic grains, facilitated by wave action and storms, represents a particularly destructive taphonomic process in the study area. Rank scoring of damage to Neothauma suggests that stromatolitic encrustations or early calcite coatings may help mitigate shell destruction caused by hydraulic fragmentation and abrasion. Persistence of Neothauma in littoral beds has important implications for the structuring of specialized communities of shallow-water benthos, as well as for improving analog models for hydrocarbon reservoirs in lacustrine carbonates.
40606448|A taphonomic study was conducted on disarticulated micromammalian bones and isolated teeth from a late Eocene (Priabonian) assemblage in the Headon Hill Formation (Solent Group, Hampshire Basin, Isle of Wight, United Kingdom). The aim was to understand accumulating mechanisms and additional postmortem agents that influenced and potentially biased the assemblage. Skeletal elements (N = 4296) belong to three marsupials, two glirid and two theridomyid rodents, two chiropterans, three nyctitheres, two omomyid primates, one pantolestid, and one apatothere. Surface modifications (i.e., etching, breakage, splitting, and impact marks) occur on bone, enamel, and dentine. Qualitative and quantitative analyses of surface modifications of each individual taxon resulted in recognition of several taphonomic agents. Predation of two theridomyid and at least two marsupial species by the mammalian carnivore Cynodictis cf. lacustris (also present in the fauna) is indicated by high proportions of etched remains, broken bones, and puncture marks. Variations within the assemblage in proportions of modified specimens or numbers of individuals are interpreted as reflecting differences in cause of death, habits, locomotor adaptations, and predatorprey relationships. The rodents, marsupials, and probably the nyctitheres are judged to have been living close to the site of deposition, justifying their previous use for isotope-based paleoclimate studies and demonstrating their participation in the local paleocommunity.
10.2307/3514721|Although the paleobathymetric history of North American platform seas in the Early Silurian has been well documented for carbonate-dominated sequences based on fossil community changes (Johnson et al, 1985; Johnson, 1987), analysis of siliciclastic systems has been more difficult because of the typical low abundances of body fossils. Proximality trends (Aigner and Reineck, 1982; Aigner, 1985), bioturbation patterns (Rhoads and Morse, 1971;Byers, 1977), and burrow size data (Savrda et al., 1984; Savrda and Bottjer, 1986) together form a powerful tool for paleobathymetric analysis of ancient shelf systems. We have applied these concepts to one superbly exposed outcrop of Lower Silurian shelf sandstone, siltstone, and shale strata in the southern Appalachians. Our analyses reveal evidence for three discrete shallowing and four intervening deepening episodes. Although these changes cannot be uniquely determined as either tectonic or eustatic, our sea-level curves correlate closely with published Llandoverian sea-level curves (based on cratonic sequences) in which changes in relative sea level are interpreted as eustatic (Johnson, 1987).
10.2307/3514629|The logic that organic communities are little more than collections of species thrown together as accidents of space and time somehow seems less convincing when viewed over long spans of geologic time. We suggest that the apparent chaos of individualism results more from the intrinsic design of short-term ecological surveys, and that weak competitive interactions may have played a major role in the structuring of the marine bottom fauna. We are drawn to this latter position given the studies of Sepkoski and Sheehan (1983), and Sepkoski and Miller (1985). These results encourage a search for some fundamental "rules of assembly" governing the formation of marine communities. In the present study we look for some of these "rules" within two marine, muddy bottom, Late Ordovician macroinvertebrate communities. We begin by defining times of balanced turnover that lasted for about 500,000 years, and then examine the proposition of whether extinction and colonization events were individualistic, or dependent on a more integrative in situ structuring. We conclude that species replacements, perhaps even displacements, may have occurred within the archaeogastropods, bivalve mollusks, and articulate brachiopods. But whether displacements occurred among these diverse groups, at the scale of this study, is considerably more speculative. Colonization events were localized in marine habitats nearer the continental margin, but the geographic range of many species expanded, at varying rates, into the interior cratonic seas. Conversely, extinctions usually occurred simultaneously across a broad region, or were highly concentrated within endemic species. In summary, the assembly of these Ordovician benthic marine communities appears to have a highly individualistic character that may have resulted from weak competitive structuring. However, we submit that it is precisely because these biotic interactions were so weak that the pattern of change in the Paleozoic benthic marine faunas was drawn out over hundreds of millions of years.
10.2307/3514514|Oxygen and carbon stable-isotope ratios of recently living, aragonitic serpulids from a submarine cave off the coast of Belize give insights to calcification processes in marine organisms. Values of <sup>18</sup>O and <sup>13</sup>C vary cyclically along the length of individual serpulid tubes, with similar trends between <sup>18</sup>O and <sup>13</sup>C in each case. For each individual serpulid, the %. variation of <sup>13</sup>C along the length of the tube is approximately equal to the %. variation of <sup>18</sup>O. Values of <sup>18</sup>O for the serpulids are approximately the same as for coexisting bivalves, implying an equilibrium temperature fractionation for oxygen. The observed <sup>18</sup>O variations can be explained by temperature changes on the order of 4.4<sup></sup> C, which is slightly less than nearby annual fluctuations in surface-water temperature. The carbonisotope data represent disequilibrium fractionation. In the serpulids, which contain no symbiotic algae, carbon fractionation occurs in light as well as dark areas of the cave, indicating that the fractionation is related to either large-scale photosynthetic effects or serpulid biogenic effects. By analogy, symbiotic algae may not be the cause of the correlation of <sup>18</sup>O and <sup>13</sup>C in other marine organisms such as corals and foraminifera.
27670327|The Early Miocene rise of the grass-dominated ecosystem is a plausible trigger for a sharp Miocene increase in accumulation of nonmarine diatomaceous sediment as well as diversification of nonmarine diatoms. This grassland radiation introduced a biogeochemical mechanism for enhancing widespread and sustained mobilization of usable silica and other nutrients. Volcanism was probably responsible for episodic nonmarine diatomaceous sediments from the advent of the oldest known nonmarine diatoms in the Late Cretaceous through the Oligocene. Although prolific Miocene volcanism was undoubtedly still important in the development of many diatomites, feedback from grassland colonization of volcanic soils may explain why diatomaceous sedimentation surged in the Miocene following a more sparse pre-Miocene record. The initial rise of the grass-dominated ecosystem, increased nonmarine diatomite accumulation, and Early Miocene evolutionary radiations of nonmarine diatom taxa are at least approximately coeval. Although the earliest known grass is Paleocene, multiple lines of evidence, including mollic-epipedon paleosols, fossil occurrences of hypsodontic ungulate grazers, and fossil phytoliths, suggest that the grass-dominated ecosystem did not expand significantly until Early Miocene. The grassland radiation apparently was delayed until Middle Miocene in parts of Eurasia, Africa, and Australia. If that delay is real, the diatom/diatomite record in those regions should coincide with it. The onset of increased Miocene diatomite accumulation is as yet imprecisely dated, but coincidence with the rise of the grass-dominated ecosystem is predicted herein. Early Miocene diversifications of Actinocyclus and Thalassiosira diatoms are consistent temporally with grassland expansion where it is Early Miocene. Subsequent adjustments in the silica cycle also may be attributed to grasslands. Nonmarine diatom radiations in the Late Miocene and Pliocene coincide with sharp regressions that may have released nutrients and soluble phytolith opal stored in Miocene soils and paleosols as well as dissolved silica in soil pore waters. Regressional erosive pulses of phytoliths provide a new explanation for low Ge/Si ratios in marine diatoms during Pleistocene glacial intervals. Nonmarine diatoms from regressive intervals should record lower Ge/Si ratios than before and after those regressions because of phytolith contributions with low Ge/Si ratios. Late Miocene radiations of C4 and moist tall-grass ecosystems may have mobilized even more silica than the short, dry-climate Early Miocene grasses. Abundance of diatomite may have fluctuated in concert with changes in degree of volcanism, even after grassland expansion, but at substantially higher levels than before this new terrestrial ecosystem arose.
10.2307/3514687|Densely fossiliferous deposits are receiving increasing attention for their yield of paleobiologic data and their usefulness in sedimentology and stratigraphy. This trend has created a pressing need for standardized descriptive terminology and a genetic classification based on a coherent conceptual framework. The descriptive procedure outlined here for skeletal concentrations stresses four features-taxonomic composition, bioclastic fabric, geometry, and internal structure- that can be described readily in the field by nonspecialists. The genetic classification scheme is based on three end members, representing biologic, sedimentologic, and diagenetic factors in skeletal concentration. Concentrations created through the simultaneous or sequential action of two or more factors are classified as mixed types. As a conceptual framework for comparative biostratinomic analysis, the broad categories of this ternary classification scheme should facilitate recognition of large-scale temporal and spatial patterns in skeletal accumulation. The usefulness of this approach is suggested by the good agreement between biostratinomic patterns observed in ancient onshore-offshore facies tracts and those predicted across paleobathymetric transects based on modern processes of skeletal concentration.
3515851|Small shelly fossils (SSFs) are a group of mostly problematic, small skeletal elements preserved primarily through secondary phosphatization. They dominate lower Cambrian diversity, but appear to suffer a sharp decline in the Botomian Stage or equivalent levels outside Siberia. This observed decline coincides with a significant reduction in phosphogenesis, suggesting that it may be attributable to the closure of a phosphatization taphonomic window. The influence of taphonomic bias on observed patterns of SSF extinction at the end of the Botomian was tested using a dataset consisting of 558 Cambrian skeletal genus occurrences compiled from 109 references. Analyses indicate that SSF preservation is significantly enhanced by, and for most taxa, restricted to, a phosphatization window. Independent proxies indicate that prevalence of secondary phosphatization declined from 74% and 64% of all preservational modes during Nemakit-Dal'dynian + Tommotian and Atdabanian + Botomian times, respectively, to 40% of all modes during Toyonian + middle Cambrian times, coincident with a severe reduction in observed SSF diversity. Sub-sampling methods that control for variations in the phosphatization window were used to test whether observed SSF diversity trajectories are biased. The corrected curve suggests that although the decline of SSFs was real, it may have been significantly exaggerated by the closure of a phosphatization window.
10.2307/3515322|Upper Carboniferous tidal-flat deposits near Waverly, eastern Kansas (Stull Shale Member, Kanwaka Shale Formation), host abundant and very well-preserved trace fossils attributed to the activity of burrowing bivalves. Thin shell lenses with an abundant bivalve fauna are associated with the ichnofossil-bearing beds and afford an unusual opportunity to relate trace fossils to their makers. Two distinctive life and feeding strategies can be reconstructed on the basis of trace fossil analysis and functional morphology. Lockeia siliquaria hyporeliefs commonly are connected with vertical to inclined, truncated endichnial shafts in the absence of horizontal locomotion traces. These structures record vertical and oblique displacement through the sediment, and suggest relatively stable domiciles rather than temporary resting traces as typically considered. Crowded bedding surfaces displaying cross-cutting relationships between specimens of L. siliquaria and differential preservation at the top (concave versus convex epireliefs) record a complex history of successive events of colonization, erosion, deposition, and recolonization (time-averaged assemblages). Irregular contours of some large hypichnia indicate the cast of the foot, while other outlines closely match the anterior area of Wilkingia, its suggested tracemaker. Relatively stable, vertical to inclined life positions and dominant vertical mobility suggest a filter-feeding strategy. Moreover, the elongate shell and palliai sinus of Wilkingia provide a strong independent line of evidence for an opisthosiphonate, moderately deep-tier inhabitant. Wilkingia may represent a pioneer attempt at siphon-feeding in the late Paleozoic, preceding the outcome of the Mesozoic infaunal radiation. A second strategy is represented by Lockeia ornata and associated locomotion and locomotion/feeding structures. Lockeia ornata is commonly connected with chevron locomotion traces that record the bifurcated foot of a protobranch bivalve. Lockeia ornata exhibits distinctive, fine, parallel lines that mimic the ornamentation of Phestia, a nuculanid protobranch bivalve. Rosary and radial structures give evidence of a patterned search for food. Lockeia ornata and associated Protovirgularia record dominant horizontal locomotion and suggest the activity of deposit-feeding bivalves. Morphologic variability of Protovirgularia was controlled by substrate fluidity, which was dependent on sediment heterogeneity and tidal-cycle dynamics. This study demonstrates that detailed analysis of bivalve traces provides valuable information on bivalve ethology and paleoecology, evolutionary innovations, environmental dynamics, and substrate fluidity.
10.2307/3515362|Wrinkle structures are a class of oddly textured sedimentary structures that are common in Proterozoic-Cambrian marine siliciclastic strata, but uncommon in post-Ordovician subtidal marine facies. Despite a long history of study, there is little agreement on how these structures form, or their role in larger-scale sedimentologic and paleontologic contexts. Based on similarities with morphologic and sedimentologic characteristics of modern microbially dominated communities, it appears that ancient wrinkle structures could have been formed by microbial mats. Microbial genesis for wrinkle structures not only helps explain their ubiquity during the late Neoproterozoic, but also their distinct paleoenvironmental and temporal shifts related to increasing vertically-oriented metazoan bioturbation. The Vendian-Cambrian transition offers a unique opportunity to examine the influence of suspect-microbial communities on the siliciclastic sedimentary record and their relationship with the earliest burrowing, grazing, and locomotive activities of metazoans. Based on outcrops in the Great Basin, USA, metazoans appear to have been moving on, in, and under suspect microbially-bound sediment, and exhibit features that suggest active and passive epifaunal and infaunal sediment ingestion. Together with more intricate horizontal burrow networks, this style of horizontal bioturbation is common in shallow settings of the Vendian-Cambrian transition, and is hypothesized to reflect highly specialized approaches to exploiting mat-mediated organic-rich sediment layers. Post-Ordovician restriction of such bedding-parallel burrowing behavior to deeper settings mirrors a shift of suspect-microbial structures to stressed or deep-sea settings. This restriction suggests replacement (rather than progressive evolution) of metazoans with horizontally specialized ecological strategies by more vertically-oriented bioturbating organisms.
10.2307/3514615|The extinct sculpins of Pliocene Lake Idaho exhibit radiation of diverse species into deep lacustrine habitats from ancestors in a shallow, offshore habitat. The eight known lineages of sculpins in the system apparently evolved within the lake from two or three immigrant species. Intralacustrine speciation is possibly an important aspect of evolution in ancient lakes. Although a single factor cannot explain all intralacustrine speciation, the process must involve ecological and ethological mechanisms for partitioning resources and for inhibiting gene flow between populations. In sculpins the process seems to involve colonization of deep zones, relatively uninhabited by competitors, by founder populations which diverge as their genetic contact with the ancestral form is cut off by differentiation of spawning time and place. The mechanism for selection against intermediates is not yet demonstrated, but may involve reduced fitness of individuals with intermediate spawning times and places. Intermediate juvenile forms probably fall between peaks of abundance of their zooplankton food. The study of speciation in ancient lakes requires fossil samples that provide information about spatial and temporal distribution of populations through the lake's history. It is also necessary to have information about colonization from adjacent lakes and streams. Stratigraphy of the Lake Idaho example is based on a simplified transgression-regression model of sedimentation. In the model, inshore sediments (and habitats) are recognized as coarser sands and associated paleobiotic indicators that form the transgressive base and regressive top of the lacustrine wedge. Time lines dip basinward into deep lacustrine silts. The lake stage examined in this study spanned from about 3.5 to 2.4 million years ago.
41317458|Olenid trilobites are characteristic of low-oxygen environments in the early Paleozoic, and researchers have proposed that olenids may have harbored chemoautotrophic symbionts, allowing them to live in borderline sulfidic environments. Beds with soft-tissue preservation at the Beecher's Trilobite Bed site in the Frankfort Shale and the Martin Quarry in the Whetstone Gulf Formation (both Ordovician, New York State) are dominated by the olenid Triarthvus. A bed-by-bed analysis of the sedimentology, taphonomy, paleoecology, and ichnology demonstrates that the exceptionally preserved organisms did not undergo extensive transport, and that the intervals bearing Triarthrus accumulated predominantly in the lower part of the dysaerobic zone. These intervals contain a low-diversity benthic fauna occurring in relatively low abundance, and consisting primarily of small brachiopods and trilobites. The taphonomy, in particular localized pyritization, the associated fauna, and the distribution of Triarthrus elsewhere in the Taconic foreland basin demonstrate that the environments in which Triarthrus lived were not sulfidic, and that these trilobites were unlikely to have adopted a chemoautotrophic mode of life.
40606481|Paleocommunity research efforts have explored a multitude of faunal assemblages using a wide range of sampling and analytical methods to infer a paleoecological signal. Here, we derive six secondary datasets from a single stratigraphie series of faunal assemblages in the Finis Shale (Pennsylvanian) of Jacksboro, Texas, USA, using a variety of data categorization decisions (i.e., abundance versus calcified biomass, all taxa versus selected indicator taxa, and generic versus higher clade resolution). Biomass-and abundance-derived datasets were not significantly different in terms of evenness, Shannon's information index, or Simpson's diversity index. Using Bray-Curtis and nonmetric multidimensional scaling ordinations, with Sorenson and relative Sorenson distance measures, ordination axis scores of the six derived datasets were all significantly correlated with one another, suggesting little difference in their respective paleoecological signals. Three potential explanations for this consistent paleoecological signal, regardless of which data categorizations are employed, include: (1) the dominance of a few brachiopod taxa overwhelmingly influenced the community structure, (2) relatively constrained environmental conditions limited community variation, and (3) low variation in specimen size minimized potential differences among abundance and calcified biomass categorizations. We suggest that other datasets with greater diversities, greater evenness, or from a wider range of paleoenvironments might not show this consistency. Thus, to the degree possible and appropriate, paleoecological investigators should test the effects of these data categorization decisions on a paleoecological signal, regardless of the analytical method employed.
10.2307/3515577|Stability ofCenozoic reefs has been documented previously by assessing stability of coral assemblages; however, the stability of other components of reef communities, such as mollusks, is unknown. To investigate whether reef mollusks form stable associations of species, mollusks from a reef decimated by brief sea-level fall within the Sangamon interglacial were compared to those of the reef that reassembled when sea level returned (after 1100-1500 years) at Cockburn Town, San Salvador Island, Bahamas. Additionally, to investigate whether mollusks within reefs were unique to that environment, assemblages from fossil reefs were compared to the assemblage of the adjacent subtidal carbonatesand facies. A total of 54 species and 4832 individuals were observed within twenty-one quadrats of both reefs and the subtidal sand. Taphonomic alteration was documented to determine if taphonomic histories were similar. Taxonomic composition of assemblages was compared with Detrended Correspondence Analysis. To test whether reef mollusk assemblages were distinctive and recurring, MANOVA tests were performed on transformed data with rare taxa excluded. Two null hypotheses were evaluated: (1) H<sub>o</sub>: there is no difference in mollusks from different reef building episodes, suggesting stability; and, to test if assemblages from reefs are unique, (2) H<sub>o</sub>: there is no difference in mollusks from reefs and subtidal sands. Reef mollusk assemblages from different periods of reef building were not significantly different. Additionally, reef mollusks formed unique assemblages that were distinct from those of adjacent subtidal sand areas. Taphonomic differences between deposits were minor. Reef mollusks followed the same pattern of stability that has been documented for coral assemblages over longer time intervals. Therefore, despite community reassembly during the late Pleistocene, mollusks associated with the reef communities show evidence of stability.
3515706|Estimates of species abundance used to quantitatively describe paleocommunities are more precise and more reliable when sampling effort is distributed among many small replicate samples, rather than concentrated in the collecting of one or a few large samples. This is because sampling error is introduced by the patchy distribution of individuals within a fossil deposit. This study applies a dispersed sampling protocol to compare the fossil assemblages preserved within a marine shell bed at two different localities of the Upper Cretaceous Navesink Formation in east-central New Jersey. A spatial hierarchy of small bulk samples (replicate samples collected along an outcrop, samples from different outcrops within a locality, and samples collected from two different localities) reveals the magnitude and scale of patchiness in the distribution of macrofauna in the Navesink shell bed. Species abundance is highly variable between replicate samples and moderately variable between outcrops due to small scale patchiness. Nevertheless, estimates of species abundance generated by collecting across the patches at each locality reveal that the overall species abundance distribution for the Navesink shell bed is nearly identical between the two localities. When collecting effort is dispersed among many widely distributed samples, different patches of fossil remains are sampled and contribute to the overall estimate of average composition obtained for a locality. Comparisons of fossil assemblages between localities or horizons are rendered more reliable by decreasing the probability that compositionally different patches have been sampled within otherwise identical paleocommunities. The significance of differences detected between local paleocommunities can be assessed more confidently when replicate samples provide a measure of local variability arising from patchiness. Paleontologists sampling to describe the species abundance composition of a discrete region of a stratigraphic horizon (e.g., outcrop, locality) should define the spatial scale of the region they are describing and disperse their sampling effort within that region.
27670349|Trace fossils in estuarine deposits of different ages have been compared to evaluate colonization history of brackish-water ecosystems and to calibrate trace-fossil, brackish-water models with respect to geologic time. This comparative analysis reveals that, although the colonization of marginal-marine, brackish-water environments was a long-term process that spanned most of the Phanerozoic, this process of invasion of fully marine organisms into restricted, marginal-marine habitats did not occur at a constant rate. Five major colonization phases can be distinguished. The first phase (EdiacaranOrdovician) represents a prelude to the major invasion that occurred during the rest of the Paleozoic. While EdiacaranCambrian ichnofaunas seem to be restricted to the outermost zones of marginal-marine depositional systems, Ordovician assemblages show some degree of landward expansion within brackish-water ecosystems. Intensity of bioturbation and ichnodiversity levels were relatively low during this phase. The second phase (SilurianCarboniferous) is marked by the appearance of more varied morphologic patterns and behavioral strategies, resulting in a slight increase in ichnodiversity. While previous assemblages were arthropod dominated, brackish-water SilurianCarboniferous ichnofaunas include structures produced by bivalves, ophiuroids, and polychaetes. Ichnofaunas from the third phase (PermianTriassic) seem to be characterized by the presence of crustacean burrows, reflecting the late Paleozoic crustacean radiation and adaptation of some groups to brackish-water conditions. The fourth phase (JurassicPaleogene) is typified by a remarkable increase in ichnodiversity and intensity of bioturbation of estuarine facies. Colonization occurred not only in softgrounds and firmgrounds, but also in hardgrounds and xylic substrates. The fifth phase (NeogeneRecent) records the onset of modern brackish-water benthos. Although still impoverished with respect to their fully marine counterparts, brackish-water ichnofaunas may reach moderately high diversities, particularly in middle- and outer-estuarine regions, and degree of bioturbation may be high in certain estuarine sub-environments. Comparative analysis of brackish-water ichnofaunas through geologic time provides valuable evidence to understand colonization of marginal-marine environments through the Phanerozoic, and allows for calibration of ichnologic models that may aid in the recognition of estuarine valley-fill deposits in the stratigraphic record.
27670605|Stable isotope analyses (18O, 13C) of Spirula spirula, a mesopelagic cephalopod with a loosely coiled internal calcareous (aragonitic) shell, suggest that 18O is precipitated in equilibrium with the surrounding water, recording the temperature of the seawater inhabited by the animal through its life. The 18O trends are interpreted to reveal a life that begins in deep waters characterized by cool temperatures before rising to warm surface waters to feed during its juvenile stage. Following this brief period in warmer waters, the isotopes suggest that the remainder of the organism's life is spent in progressively cooler (deeper) waters. The incorporation of isotopically light metabolic carbon, however, significantly affects the stable carbon isotope signal recorded in S. spirula, effectively obscuring the record of 13C of seawater dissolved inorganic carbon archived in the shell carbonate. This may relate to the internal position of the shell, in which the growing margin is anchored in soft tissue and separated from the ambient seawater within the mantle cavity. By analogy, 13C of extinct cephalopod shells may, thus, prove useful as a guide to the amount of soft tissue surrounding the growing margin of the shell. Changes in 13C of the shell may also indicate a change of diet concurrently with the inferred rise to warm surface waters. The results of this study have important implications for understanding ancestors of S. spirula, such as belemnites, in terms of the constraints on equilibrium precipitation of shell carbonate, sought in terms in paleoenvironmental studies.
10.2307/3514903| Trace fossil horizons comprising Zoophycos, Bathichnus paramoudrae, Chondrites, Trichichnus, Thalassinoides, Spongeliomorpha and Ophiomorpha can be traced over thousands of square kilometers throughout the Anglo-Paris Basin and beyond. Because these trace fossil horizons cross lithofacies boundaries while retaining their time relationships, they are valuable to stratigraphic correlations. Such widespread "trace fossil events" are related to broad environmental changes in the basin, particularly eustatic sea-level fluctuations. These events also may reflect changes in interstitial oxygen concentration or other environmental factors. Broad rhythms in the Upper Cretaceous Chalk identified by these trace fossil events compare favorably with the sea-level curves of Vail et al. (1977), Haq et al. (1987), and Hancock (1989). Some of the principal trace fossil marker horizons correlate with the major eustatic events. These trace fossil events appear to be more sensitive indicators of eustacy than other criteria, such as hardgrounds. Several key trace fossil events occur in Cenomanian to mid-Campanian Chalk. Some appear to be diachronous, owing to the structural arrangement of the basin in relation to Atlantic water mass movements. This has resulted in the conspicuous silicification of, for example, the Fcamp Paramoudra Flint Member on the southwest margin. 
10.2307/3514822|Abyssal chemosynthetic communities are supported by bacterial oxidation of reduced chemicals in brines which seep out through sediments at the base of the Florida Escarpment. They are surrounded by carbonate hardgrounds and sediments rich in fresh organic carbon that contain a record of the metabolic pathways and geochemical processes which are active at these sites. The isotopic composition of tissue samples (<sup>13</sup>C as low as -76.40%<sub>0</sub>), carbonate crusts (<sup>13</sup>C as low as -45.19%<sub>0</sub>) and sedimentary organic matter (<sup>13</sup>C as low as -67.87%<sub>0</sub>) indicate that biogenic methane dissolved in the brines (<sup>13</sup>C -83.3  5.8<sup></sup><sub>0</sub>) is a major carbon source for many of the locally synthesized compounds. However, the considerable variation that exists in the <sup>13</sup>C values between the various tissue types (e.g., mussel versus tube worm) suggests that other common carbon sources are preferred by some taxa that surround the same seep. The freshness of the authigenic sedimentary organic deposits is indicated by their low carbon to nitrogen ratios ( 6.1) and high organic carbon concentrations (up to 9.4%). Negative <sup>15</sup>N values in all of the tissue samples (as low as -11.98%<sub>0</sub>) and sedimentary organic carbon (as low as -4.47%<sub>0</sub>) indicate that nitrogen is assimilated locally, presumably from ammonium in the seep fluids. Sulfur isotopes in organic matter are inversely correlated with the carbon isotopic values and confirm the occurrence of distinct metabolic pathways between different taxa (e.g., mussel versus tube worm). The range in <sup>34</sup>S values from +18.19 to -21.23 suggests two distinct sources for sulfur assimilated around the seeps. Ratios of D/H in tissue samples indicate that methane is not their primary hydrogen source, even though the same tissues receive most of their carbon from methane. Low <sup>13</sup>C values (down to -48.38%<sub>0</sub>) of  CO<sub>2</sub> in the brine-enriched pore waters suggest that methane oxidation associated with sulfate reduction causes alkalinity increases which, in turn stimulate carbonate cementation. Fossil seep environments may be identified from similar unusual isotopic values preserved in ancient deposits.
10.2307/3514807|During the Early Cretaceous, coral-algal communities occupied deeper water habitats in the reef ecosystem, and rudist communities generally populated the shallow-water, carbonate-sand substrates. During the middle Cretaceous, however, coral-algal communities became less common, and Late Cretaceous reef communities consisted of both rudist-dominated and rudist-coral communities. In the Pyrenean basins and other basins in the Mediterranean, coral associations co-existed with rudists forming complex buildups at the shelf-edge. In some parts of these buildups corals were nearly as abundant as rudists; in some complex buildups large coral colonies encrusted the rudists. Behind the shelf margin cylindrical, elevator rudists dominated the lenticular thickets that were interspersed with carbonate sands. Global changes in oceanic conditions, such as marine productivity and oxygen content, may have stressed the deeper coral-algal reef communities leaving rudists as the major shallow reef biota in Caribbean reefs. However, the co-occurrence of corals with rudists in these Pyrenean complex buildups suggests that corals were able to compete with rudists for resources. The corals in the complex buildups generally belong to genera different from those in the coral-algal communities. Perhaps this ecological stress in the mid-Cretaceous resulted in the evolution of new coral taxa.
10.2307/3515476|Late Holocene relict shorelines of the southwestern Louisiana chenier plain contain molluscan assemblages that vary greatly in taxonomic composition and bioclast preservation. Taxonomic composition varies with ridge age: older ridges are oyster rich, whereas younger ridges are dominated by infaunal bivalves. Taphonomic features can be separated into those caused by biostratinomic and those caused by pedogenic processes. Pedogenic alteration generally increases as ridge age increases, whereas biostratinomic alteration reflects the prevalence of reworked bioclasts in assemblages. These molluscan assemblages are extensively time averaged, causing temporal overcompleteness of depositional units (i.e., amount of time averaging for bioclasts within a unit is much greater than the time it took for that unit to form). Chenier-plain progradation over the last 3,000 years both caused and preserved the observed trend in community composition. This trend was caused by community replacement related to changing substrate stability and by changes in the source of reworked bioclasts, both of which operated in response to progradation. Net progradation also allowed this trend to be preserved because time averaging occurred episodically and shorelines were effectively separated into discrete generations. Although coastal deposits are not typically viewed as ideal sites for high-resolution paleoenvironmental studies, millennial-scale community trends can be detected in this setting.
27670498|The flora from the Montceau-les-Mines Lagersttte (Massif Central, France, Late Pennsylvanian) is preserved in small sideritic concretions and was studied in three locations in the (1) Saint-Louis, (2) Saint-Franois, and (3) Sainte-Hlne opencast mines. Qualitative and quantitative analyses of plant diversity and floristic composition in 6812 nodules indicate substantial variations in the floral composition of these opencast mines. More than 50 taxa are recognized and belong to groups typical of the Late Pennsylvanian flora (lycopsids, sphenopsids, tree ferns, and pteridosperms). Arborescent sphenopsids and tree ferns were the major components at Saint-Louis, whereas the flora from Saint-Franois consisted mainly of pteridosperms; the one from Sainte-Hlne has a more balanced composition. Taphonomic and sedimentological data show that the flora contained in the nodules was hypoautochthonous to parautochthonous. The Montceau Basin displayed a mosaic of paleoenvironments (e.g., deltaic lacustrine, paludal to fluvial) which favored colonization by plants and animals.
27670519|The Ingersoll shale, a thin (<1 m) clay-dominated lens within the Upper Cretaceous Eutaw Formation in eastern Alabama, contains a well-preserved, primarily continental biota that includes a diverse, carbonized, and variably pyritized flora, abundant amber with fossil inclusions, and common feathers. Geometry of the Ingersoll shale lens and its position between high-energy tidal deposits below and estuarine central bay deposits above indicate deposition in a shallow, narrow channel in the lower reaches of a bayhead delta in response to estuarine transgression. Tidal rhythmites and textural trends indicate that the channel filled very rapidly (5580 cm per yr), under progressively waning energy regimes. Ichnofabrics, high organic carbon contents, and abundant pyrite indicate highly fluid and reducing sediments. Marine palynomorphs, sulfide contents, and 34S values of pyrite sulfur indicate normal to near-normal marine salinities. Environmental factors and sedimentary processes contributing to preservation of the Ingersoll shale biota include (1) rapid deposition and burial (obrution); (2) reducing pore waters (stagnation), which limited bioturbation and scavenging, promoted pyritization of some fossils (diagenetic mineralization), and facilitated bacterial replacement of others (i.e., feathers); and (3) concentration of allochthonous or para-autochthonous amber clasts (preservation traps) by tidal currents. Lessons from the Ingersoll shale may help prospect for similar, isolated yet fossil-rich marginal marine deposits.
10.2307/3515449|The fossil record is necessary to provide an extended temporal scale to studies of community stability and equilibrium and species longevities and origination. We addressed these topics with a large database for Cenozoic benthic foraminifera from six formations (ranging from Eocene to Pliocene) occurring in the Salisbury and Albemarle embayment(s) (SAE) of the North American Atlantic Coastal Plain. We also documented the worldwide fossil occurrences of the 356 species found in these formations to 142 well-dated formations, most of which are in the Atlantic and Gulf Coastal Plains and which comprise a species pool from which species are drawn during each transgression into the SAE. A ledger was constructed with the first entry consisting of the number of immigrants to each formation, and the last the number of emigrants. Consideration of the ledger indicates a dynamic system. Faunal stability within ecological units, rapid and continual change, and balance and imbalance of immigrants versus emigrants are all observed. During transgressions, immigrants enter the SAE from the source species pool and, on the average, about half of the available species inhabit the SAE during a transgression. During regressions, emigrants disperse into various parts of the wide geographic area of the pool and about a quarter never return to the SAE. The distribution of each species' occurrence is unique in space and time. Emigrant species do not migrate to another location as a unit nor do they immigrate as a unit. Consequently, no recourse to biotic interactions or hierarchical structure is required to explain the observations presented here. Rather, environmental regime plays an important role in affecting community composition.
10.2307/3515605|The stable carbon and oxygen isotope compositions of serial samples of enamel from tusks of Gomphotherium productus (Mammalia, Proboscidea) from Port of Entry Pit, Oklahoma (early Hemphillian North American Land Mammal Age, ca. 7.5 Ma), were measured to examine intraannual and interannual variation. Sample series from each of six tusks spanned approximately one year of tusk growth. Carbon isotope compositions range from -11.3 to -9.2%<sub>o</sub> (VPDB) and exhibit no pattern of seasonal variation, indicating the diet of gomphotheres at Port of Entry Pit was dominated by C<sub>3</sub> vegetation throughout the year. Phosphate oxygen isotope composition (<sup>18</sup>O<sub>p</sub>) ranges from 18.9 to 22.2%<sub>o</sub> (VSMOW); carbonate oxygen isotope composition (<sup>18</sup>O<sub>c</sub>) ranges from 26.1 to 30.1%<sub>o</sub> (VSMOW). None of the tusks exhibit seasonal variation in <sup>18</sup>O, and the average within-tusk range in <sup>18</sup>O<sub>p</sub> is 1.7%<sub>o</sub>. Neither the fluorine composition of the specimens nor the relationship between <sup>18</sup>O<sub>p</sub> and <sup>18</sup>O<sub>c</sub> values from splits of the same samples suggest significant post-depositional alteration. The oxygen isotope data imply that Hemphillian meteoric water had <sup>18</sup>O values that are indistinguishable from modern values in the region today. However, because polar ice sheets were smaller and mean ocean water <sup>18</sup>O lower than present, the estimates of meteoric water composition from gomphothere tusk <sup>18</sup>O<sub>p</sub> are consistent with warmer mean annual temperatures during the Hemphillian. The within-tusk variations in &8OP are consistent with similar or much reduced patterns of seasonal temperature variation in comparison to today, depending on air mass flow during the late Miocene. Alternative explanations include seasonal migratory behavior and reliance by the gomphotheres at Port of Entry Pit on sources of drinking water with relatively constant <sup>18</sup>O values.
10.2307/3514950|Five cycles of first and last appearances are discernible in Paleogene benthic foraminiferal faunas from the Gulf Coast states of Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama. These cycles were apparently caused by episodic increases in extinction rates followed by longer periods of recovery. In most respects they resemble cyclic patterns observed by other workers in Gulf Coast Paleogene molluscan faunas. Comparison of these cyclic patterns with global and local climatic trends shows an association between the increased extinction rate at two (Middle and Late Eocene) cycle boundaries and periods of climatic deterioration. Likewise, periods of climatic stability, indicated by stable Gulf Coast sporomorph diversity, coincide with lower than average extinction rates among benthic foraminifers. Comparison of the cyclic patterns with Gulf Coast sea level curves shows an association of increased extinction rates at three (Paleocene, Early Eocene, Middle Eocene) cycle boundaries with significant, widespread, rapid sea level falls that produced type 1 unconformities. Local and/or slow sea level falls do not appear to have effected extinction rates. Calculations using a species survivorship curve suggest that the time necessary for an average faunal assemblage to reach equilibrium following an extinction event is longer than the duration of any Paleogene cycle. Thus, Gulf Coast Paleogene benthic foraminiferal faunas were rarely if ever at equilibrium.
3515847|Australia has numerous fossil floras suitable for paleoclimatic analysis, with potential to improve understanding of Southern Hemisphere climatic evolution. Leaf-margin analysis (LMA) is a widely used method that applies present-day correlations between the proportion of woody dicot species with untoothed leaves and mean annual temperature to estimate paleotemperatures from fossil megafloras. Australia's unique history and vegetation imply that its leaf-margin correlation might differ from other regions; these possible differences are investigated here to improve paleo-climatic interpretations. Australian rainforest vegetation shows nearly the same regression slope as recorded in East Asia and the Americas, indicating a globally convergent evolutionary response of leaf form to temperature. However, Australian sites tend to have fewer toothed species at localities with the same temperature as Asian and American sites. The following factors, singly or in combination, may account for this difference: (1) Australia's Cenozoic movement into lower latitudes, insulation from global cooling, and isolation from high-latitude cold-tolerant vegetation sources; (2) lack of high mountains as sources and refuges for cold-adapted taxa; (3) Pleistocene extinctions of cold-adapted taxa; and (4) the near absence of a cold-climate forest ecospace in Australia today. Application of Australian LMA to Australian Cenozoic floras resulted in cooler temperature estimates than other LMA regressions. However, Australian paleotemperature estimates should account for the relative importance of cold-deciduous taxa. The timing and magnitudes of the extinctions of cold-adapted lineages are not known, and the most conservative approach is to use Australian LMA as a minimum and non-Australian LMA as a maximum temperature estimate.
20173035| The Middle Turonian Kaskapau Formation in the Rocky Mountain Foothills of northeastern British Columbia comprises up to 950 m of shallow marine sandstones cyclically interstratified with marine mudstones and minor lagoonal deposits. Transgressive surfaces are commonly mantled by thin pebble lags. A transgressive pebble lag exposed in Quality Creek near Tumbler Ridge town site includes rare, well-rounded quartzite cobbles and a quartzite boulder, which were deposited at a paleolatitude of about 67N. Encrusting organisms are unevenly distributed over five of the largest clasts. Disciniscid brachiopods are abundant on one cobble but are otherwise rare. A conical-shelled lingulate brachiopod with concentric growth lamellae occurs sparsely, and a weakly ribbed lingulate brachiopod is represented by one shell. Serpulid worm tubes, encrusting bryozoans, and possible basal attachments of corals are also present. Attached foraminifera are abundant and distributed over several clasts. Generic diversity and taxic dominance values are moderate. The fauna includes many elements typical of Cretaceous lower-latitude hard substrates but is unusual in lacking bivalves; their absence might be due to a combination of abundant clastic supply, high turbidity, possibly lowered salinity in the nearshore zone, and relatively low water temperature (10C). The gradient of rivers that supplied gravel to the Kaskapau shoreline was estimated from clast size (typically &lt;30 mm) and bed thickness in coeval fluvial conglomerate. Results suggest river gradients of about 0.3-0.4 m/km close to the shoreline. Calculations based on the encrusted cobbles suggest an unreasonably steep river gradient of about 1.9 m/km. The most likely alternative transport mechanism is rafting in the roots of trees, although the high paleolatitude might not preclude rafting by winter river ice. 
10.2307/3515312|Near Salt Lake City, Utah, several limestone ledges in the upper part of the Thaynes Formation contain siltstone replicas of common Triassic pelecypods. Identical siliciclastic silt is abundant in the ledges in the form of narrow dikes, irregular seams, and thin beds. The casts formed when detrital silt filled molds created by dissolution of buried shells. A gravity-controlled process of mold filling is rejected because the casts are not concentrated beneath discontinuity surfaces, and individual specimens lack geopetal fabrics. By contrast, many casts are lateral extensions of dikes that die out upward in the host ledge, and many isolated, convex-up molds are completely filled from end to end, including the highest part of the arch. These features are evidence for injection of liquefied silt as the mold-filling process. The rarity of connections between dikes and thick, inter-ledge siltstone units indicates that layers and lenses of silt within the ledge-forming carbonates were the sources of the injected sediment. The availability of open molds as sites for injection indicates that the carbonate was at least partially lithified and subject to fracturing by the same event that mobilized the silt. The concurrent responses could have been triggered by rapid deposition of overlying strata, by passage of storm waves, or by an earthquake. Lack of sedimentologic evidence for either of the first two phenomena, plus the well-documented association of historical earthquakes with sediment liquefaction, leads to tentative acceptance of seismicity as the most likely of the three triggering mechanisms.
3515659|A survey of the large number of scallops from the Plio-Pleistocene shell beds of Florida held in the collections of the Florida Museum of Natural History has revealed that a proportion have been penetrated by drillholes of the ichnospecies Oichnus ovalis, which may be attributed to predatory octopods. Only large individuals had been drilled. Drillhole positioning was highly stereotyped, most being located on the 'upper' left valve, between ribs and directly into the adductor myostracum. Such stereotypy indicates that the octopods concerned were highly accustomed to taking scallop prey and also that the complex predatory behavior seen in modern octopods was already in place by the Pliocene. Such stereotypic patterns suggest that scallops from these localities were frequently the victims of octopod attack.
10.2307/3515601|Two types of large diameter burrows, recognized by non-overlapping size distributions, occur in high paleolatitude floodplain deposits of the Lower Triassic Fremouw Formation, Shackleton Glacier area, Antarctica. Type G (giant) burrows are gently dipping tunnels 8 to 19 cm in diameter. Type L (large) burrows are 2 to 6.5 cm in diameter, curved or subhorizontal tunnels that rarely branch; scratch markings on both burrow types generally are parallel or tangential to the long axis of the burrows. Type G burrows are interpreted as produced by tetrapods based on similarity in size, architecture, and surface markings to Permian burrows from South Africa that contain complete skeletons of therapsids. These are the first tetrapod burrows described from Antarctica. Type L burrows have characteristics of both fossil tetrapod and crayfish burrows, precluding identification of an unique producer. Triassic tetrapods, including therapsids, that lived in high southern latitudes probably burrowed to dampen the effects of seasonal environmental fluctuations, just as do many of their mammalian counterparts living today in high latitudes. The paleolatitudinal and paleooclimatic distributions of burrowing therapsids and their mammalian descendents can be assessed by focusing search efforts on very large burrows, and by identifying producers using criteria delineated herein; this will clarify the extent to which the burrowing habit originated and persisted in high latitudes.
40606500|The late Campanian-Maastrichtian Liscomb Bonebed is the richest source of dinosaur remains thus far documented in the polar regions. This bed is formally defined herein and assigned to the upper part of the Prince Creek Formation; the bonebed and several other organic-rich beds are part of a 178 m sequence of fluvial and volcaniclastic deposits. The Liscomb Bonebed is a mudstone rich in clay, comminuted plant remains, and palynomorphs with a total organic carbon (TOC) of 6.80%-10.55%. It contains a multitaxic, low-diversity, dinosaur assemblage, dominated by Edmontosaurus sp., which is primarily represented by late juveniles. Four theropod taxa are almost exclusively represented by isolated teeth. With > 6000 specimens collected, the assemblage is characterized by a Minimum Number of Individuals (MNI) of 36, dominance of Voorhies Groups I and II, and an underrepresentation of teeth, skulls, and girdles. Bones are highly fragmented and exhibit low weathering and abrasion indices. Bite marks occur on slightly more than 1% of elements. The densest accumulations of bone are typically found in the middle third of the bed with the largest bones at the bottom. The Liscomb Bonebed assemblage resulted from mass mortality associated with overbank floods that formed floodplain mires and ponds. Data from the current study clearly establish the Alaskan Arctic as the year-round residence of a rich dinosaur fauna and add further support to the hypotheses that even highlatitude hadrosaurids were gregarious and formed social groups.
27670614|Paleoecological statistics calculated for fossil assemblages are often influenced by biases that may act at more than one scale. These biases are difficult to detect without an overarching method that can accommodate the spatial attributes of fossil specimens. Geographic Information Systems (GIS) can be used to manage, analyze, synthesize, and archive large amounts of paleontological data within a geospatial framework. This study uses GIS to test the impact of variation in sampling area and rate of sediment accumulation on two commonly employed paleoecological statisticsspecies richness and relative body size. Mammals of the Willwood Formation (early Eocene) from the central part of the Bighorn Basin, Wyoming, USA, serve as a test case. Fossil localities outlined on U.S. Geological Survey topographic maps were digitized and GIS was used to estimate their two-dimensional areas. This metric was compared directly with species richness to test sampling area bias and also was used to calculate the density of species per unit area, which could be compared among various samples. Tests were constructed to examine variation at the locality scale and across the basin. Results of the analysis of the sampling area bias showed that species richness increased significantly with increasing sampling area and that rarefaction, the commonly used method of standardizing richness, did not remove the sampling area-richness relationship when the magnitude of area variation was >1 km2. Results of the analysis of compositional variation related to changes in rate of sediment accumulation showed that locality-scale changes did not have a significant influence on assemblage composition.
41317446|The alien razor shell Ensis americanus (Binney) is a common bioclast on Dutch beaches. It is uncommonly encrusted by the balanid Balanus crenatus Brugire on both the interior and exterior surfaces of both valves. This occurs postmortem, but before the ligament breaks. A well-preserved specimen from Zandvoort is described which confirms that this pattern of skeletozoan infestation is initiated in dead shells still in the burrow, but protruding above the sediment surface. After exhumation, the recumbent shell can be further infested by subsequent balanid spatfalls. Such a pattern of encrustation is only likely in burrowing bivalves with a permanent and prominent gape to the shell.
3514927|Taphonomic studies have provided valuable information on depositional and post-burial conditions of sediments. Deep-sea oozes, by definition, are predominantly composed of the skeletal remains of pelagic organisms. These skeletal accumulations are similar in many ways to those of shallow-marine invertebrates, which have been the typical subjects of taphonomic analysis. We consider the problem of obtaining meaningful information from taphonomic analysis of pelagic microfossils, and the relationship between microfossil taphonomy and sediment fabric. Using examples from the biosiliceous oozes of Ocean Drilling Program (ODP) Site 751, we evaluate taphonomic concepts developed by previous workers for analysis of macrofossil skeletal accumulations and relate these to our observations of sediment fabric. Differences between the taphonomic processes we infer to have acted on the microfossils in our study and those determined by other workers to affect macrofossils result from the small size, typically planktonic life habit, slow deposition rate, and pelagic depositional setting of the microfossils. We note that taphonomic processes may be responsible for biased data in high-resolution biostratigraphic or paleoecological microfossil studies. Furthermore, the taphonomic characteristics of microfossils in pelagic oozes are a major factor in determining the physical properties of the sediment (e.g., porosity, permeability, water content, bulk density, etc.), which in turn influence such processes as fluid migration and slope stability, among others.
10.2307/3515348|Foraminifera of St. Catherines Island, Georgia, display a vertical zonation within salt marshes that should prove useful in regional studies on Holocene sea-level fluctuations. This vertical zonation, however, differs somewhat from previous models and is based on taxa that are biogeographically more appropriate for this region. Specifically, three species (Reophax nana, Textularia palustris, Siphotrochammina lobata) occur throughout the low marsh and are limited to marsh habitats below approximately 1.4-1.5 m above MLW. Foraminiferal assemblages from the high marsh lack these three low-marsh taxa. No foraminifera are distributed only within the high marsh. Those species that are common in the high marsh (Trochammina inflata, T. macrescens, Arenoparrella mexicana) occur throughout the marsh (high, transitional, and low) and, therefore, cannot serve as the sole proxy for any specific marsh elevation in studies on Holocene changes in sea level for this region. A comparison of distributional patterns in surface (0-3 cm) and subsurface (19-21 cm) sediment shows that the most important species with regard to elevation in St. Catherines Island marshes also tend to be consistently preserved.
40606505|The depth to which a vertebrate track is indented can provide a wealth of information, being a direct result of the weight, duty factor, and limb kinematics of the animal as well as media (= substrate or sediment) consistency. In order to recreate the formation of the track and elucidate media consistency at the time of track formation, such factors as animal mass, duty factor, and foot morphology must be taken into consideration. This study uses Finite Element Analysis and physical modeling to demonstrate for the first time that the shape of the foot is an important factor that influences the depth to which the sediment is penetrated. In cohesive sediment, less compact morphology allows more sediment to move vertically upwards at the edges of the foot, dissipating force at the surface, and retarding transmission of load vertically down into the sediment. The reverse of this effect is seen in noncohesive sediment. Foot morphology, therefore, has a direct impact on preservation potential, both of surface tracks and undertracks, that is irrespective of the pressure exerted on the sediment surface by the foot and independent of mass and duty factor.
10.2307/3515590|Bryozoan skeletons are a dominant constituent of cool-water carbonate sediments in the Cenozoic of southern Australia. The primary substrate on much of the modern continental shelf is loose sediment that is reworked intermittently to 200+ m water depth by storm waves. Availability of stable substrate is a limiting factor in the modern distribution of bryozoans in this setting. As a result, a significant proportion of the sedimentologically important modern bryozoans (30-250 m water depth) live attached to sessile, benthic invertebrate hosts that possess organic or spicular skeletons. Hosts such as hydroids, ascidian tunicates, sponges, soft worm tubes, octocorals, and other lightly-calcified and articulated bryozoans provide ephemeral substrates; after death, host skeletons disarticulate and decay, leaving little or no body fossil record. The calcareous sediments produced by these epizoic bryozoans from ephemeral substrates result in loose particles that rarely preserve substratal relationships, but potentially retain diagnostic basal attachment morphologies. Although the best known examples of epizoic carbonate production on ephemeral substrates are from the southern Australian margin, this may be an important phenomenon both globally and in the fossil record. Bryozoan sediment production from epizoans on ephemeral substrates would seem, however, to have a scant record prior to the Cretaceous.
27670337|The Late Pennsylvanian Graissessac-Lodve basin is a small, fluvio-palustrine depocenter located in the southern part of the Massif Central (France). A taphonomic and sedimentologic study carried out in this area allows a reconstruction of Late Carboniferous vegetation in an intramontane context. The paleoecology of such limnic settings is poorly known, and this study permits detailed comparison with paralic basins for the first time. The Graissessac peat mires developed in abandoned fluvial channels, in flood-plains, and above distal alluvial fans. The vegetation was dominated by monospecific stands of the arborescent lycopsid Sigillaria brardii, whereas the tree fern Psaronius occurred during the later stages of mire accretion. This is in contrast to coeval North American peat mires, which generally were dominated by tree ferns and pteridosperms throughout the mire profile. Stephanian floodplains and distal alluvial fans of the Graissessac-Lodve Basin were devoid of vegetation, with the exception of isolated thickets of sphenopsids that were composed of Calamites and Sphenophyllum. These plants were found growing in situ in the floodplain mudstones as well as in fine-grained sands of secondary channels. Parautochthonous foliage assemblages of ferns and pteridosperms found in floodplain mudstones represent the most diverse plant community. The plants supplying these remains were growing in exposed areas close to floodplains. Large logs attributed to cordaitaleans and monotypic assemblages of large Cordaites leaves were found in fluvial sediments, and suggest that the plants were riparian elements in the basin.
10.2307/3515333|Microbialites in the 2521 3 Ma Gamohaan and Frisco formations, South Africa, consist of three components: very thin, filmy laminae that are interpreted as remnants of microbial mats; irregular surfaces that acted as supports over which filmy laminae draped, which also are interpreted as microbial in origin; and cement-filled voids that formed contemporaneously with microbialite growth. The structure of the microbialites varies with the proportions of filmy laminae and supports, disruption of had filmy laminae, and abundance of voids. Seven end-member morphologies have been defined: planar laminae, contorted laminae, tented microbialites, cuspate microbialites, irregular columnar microbialites, plumose structures, and herringbone calcite beds. Similar structures have not been reported in younger rocks, but they may have partial analogs in Yellowstone hot springs, ice covered lakes in Antarctica, and Proterozoic conoform stromatolites. Herringbone calcite, a fibrous marine cement, precipitated contemporaneously with microbial growth. It preferentially precipitated on the supports over the laminated mat as demonstrated by: the concentration of herringbone calcite near supports; growth banding in herringbone calcite, which indicates that calcite nucleated on and grew away from supports but not laminated mat; and the abutment of herringbone calcite coatings against laminated mat attached to supports. These observations suggest that the laminated mat inhibited nucleation of calcite crystals. The differences in the morphology and relationships to herringbone calcite in the supports and laminated mat imply that they were composed of distinct microbial communities that interacted with their environment differently. Also, the complexity of the microbialites demonstrates that a remarkably diverse set of microbe-substrate interactions evolved by late Archean time.
40606441|Silicification of higher plants associated with active, alkali-chloride hot springs in Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming, USA, occurs dominantly in areas of geothermally influenced wetlands. Plants grow in an environment with many of the characteristics of an oligosaline marsh and are subjected to brackish salinity and high pH, temperature, silica, and heavy metal concentrations. As such, the plants undergoing silicification at Yellowstone are predominantly those more typically found colonizing widespread evaporation-driven inland waters and coastal salt marshes (e.g., Eleocharis rostellata, Triglochin maritimum) and are in some ways preadapted to hot-spring settings. This paper documents hydrochemistry and physical parameters in a typical geothermally influenced wetland at Big Blue Hot Spring, Elk Park in Yellowstone and records the taphonomic processes involved in silicification of the most common wetland plant Eleocharis rostellata. Silicification of plants in situ results in the three-dimensional preservation of tissues and cells characteristic of plants preserved around the Lower Devonian Rhynie chert hot-spring system. Sinter deposition at active and fossil hot-spring areas is typically associated with alkali-chloride springs above low-sulfidation epithermal systems. As mineralogical and geological evidence indicates that such a system was responsible for preservation of the Rhynie plants, it is hypothesized that they too, at least periodically, withstood comparable physiological stresses to the modern analogs.
10.2307/3515460|Siltstones with fossil root traces and surface mats of fossil plants in the mid-Carboniferous (Westphalian or 310-312 Ma) Seaham Formation near Lochinvar, New South Wales, represent ancient soils of tundra ecosystems. Formerly well-drained paleosols show deeply-penetrating root traces, ferruginous nodules, freeze-thaw banding, and earth hummocks (thufur), but little evidence of mineral weathering. These paleosols also preserve leaf fragments of the seed fern Botrychiopsis plantiana. Formerly poorly-drained paleosols show tabular root systems, partly decomposed mats of the horsetail Dichophyllites peruvianus, and parent material of varved shale. Comparable soils are widespread in tundra regions of the northern hemisphere today. The paleosols show greater organic matter content than polar desert soils and much less weathering than soils of polar woodland. Shrubs or prostrate woody plants are represented by slender compressed fossil logs, but these are a less reliable guide to ancient ecosystem type than the paleosols because scattered small trees are found throughout the modern tundra belt. These fossil soils and plants are the most geologically ancient record of tundra vegetation known.
10.2307/3514849|<sup>18</sup>O analyses of phosphate in cetacean bones, presumably precipitated at body temperatures of 36-37<sup></sup> C, offer a potential means of determining the isotopic composition of Tertiary seas. Isotopic analyses of Recent marine cetaceans suggest that their body fluids are only slightly "heavier" than ambient sea water. Analyses of Miocene cetacean bone from the Chesapeake Group (Maryland) show consistent values for each stratigraphic level with whales always "heavier" than porpoises, and show stratigraphic oscillations in isotopic values truncated by disconformities. However, these fossils are isotopically "heavier" than modern cetaceans, and suggest water compositions in the +2 to +4.7%. range, values which are unrealistically high. The isotopic values from the fossils appear to be unaltered by diagenesis, thus it appears that the positive shift in isotopic values is the result of differences in physiology, such as a greater retention of metabolic water in the Miocene cetaceans. The magnitude of the stratigraphic oscillation of isotopic values implies variations in Miocene ice volume exceeding those of the Pleistocene, and sea levels as low as those estimated for the last glacial maximum, interpretations in conflict with current views.
10.2307/3514688|The accumulation of dead hardparts can directly influence the structure and dynamics of benthic communities by changing the physical characteristics of the sea floor. Biotic changes driven by such live/dead interactions have recently been termed taphonomic feedback (TF) to stress a) the role of post-mortem processes in the availability of hardparts, and b) that not only does the life assemblage influence the death assemblage, but the accumulation of a death assemblage affects the living one. This paper presents a quantitative test for the operation of taphonomic feedback in the fossil record. Assemblages from Miocene strata of Maryland exhibit a statistically significant correlation between the abundance of shell-gravel dwellers (including epifauna and infauna) and sediment shelliness consistent with faunal changes predicted by TF. Alternative explanations for the correlation, such as differential preservation potentials of soft-bottom and shell-gravel taxa, faunal response to changing water energy, and live/live interactions, can be rejected. The operation of TF has several implications for analysis of the fossil record: a) as a driving mechanism for faunal change in benthic communities; b) as an approach to reconstructing patterns in the accumulation (and non-accumulation) of hardparts and sediment; and c) as an indication of the apparently prolonged post-mortem persistence of skeletal material in some settings and the biologically and taphonomically complex origins of many densely fossiliferous deposits.
10.2307/3515114|The mid-to late Miocene "Pannonian Lake" was a primarily closed, saline lake which during its lifetime underwent a series of rapid salinity changes associated with faunal extinctions/radiations. The first two of these, at the Badenian/Sarmatian and Sarmatian/Pannonian boundaries signify the transition from a marine basin to a brackish lake and are marked by major faunal changes. The isotopic composition of molluscs from the lake, however, does not undergo major changes. The third transition, at the end of the Pannonian and into the Pontian, is also marked by major faunal changes, thought initially to reflect further freshening of the lake. Both carbon and oxygen isotope ratios of lake molluscs decrease by 4 to 6 at this transition. A consideration of salinity and oxygen isotope mass balances for a closed or nearly-closed lake shows that major changes in salinity accompany relatively minor changes in water balance and isotopic composition. This result explains why the oxygen isotope ratio of lake waters did not change during the initial freshening of the lake and suggests that the major isotopic changes observed later are not directly related to changes in the lake water balance which caused the salinity changes. The isotopic variations were driven mainly by other climatic factors, most likely changes in humidity and isotopic composition of inflow.
10.2307/3514745|The Upper Ordovician, Reedsville Formation at Swatara Gap, Lebanon County, Pennsylvania contains two benthic fossil faunas. The stratigraphically lowest strata of the Swatara Gap exposures (interbedded siltstones and shales) contain a shallow subtidal fossil fauna which includes diverse brachiopods, trilobites, mollusks, echinoderms, and a eurypterid. Although diverse, the fauna is dominated by organisms well suited to live on and in a muddy substrate, such as small sowerbyellids (Sowerbyella and Thaerodonta), flat strophomenids (Rafinesquina), and the trilobite Cryptolithus. The stratigraphically highest strata, which contain shales and lack siltstones, include the burrowing, inarticulate brachiopod Pseudolingula, infaunal pelecypods, and the trilobite Cryptolithus. Other fossils from the stratigraphically lower Swatara Gap rocks are noticeably absent from these upper shales. Both the silty and the muddy substrate faunas were preserved by storm sedimentation. The silt-rich rocks record distal storm processes-but not as distal as the silt-poor rocks (mud tempestites). Although the result of distal storm processes, these mud tempestites indicate high sedimentation rates, and the fossil fauna buried by the mud tempestites includes organisms well adapted to living in, or escaping from, thick muddy deposits. The benthic fossils found in the silty and muddy Reedsville rocks do not readily fit published paleobathymetric models. This is probably because factors other than absolute depth-such as substrate and sedimentation rate were primary controls on organisms' occurrences.
10.2307/3514556|Impact-glass microspherules occur at numerous localities in rocks that can be dated as late Eocene. There is debate as to whether the discovered microspherule layers are the result of two or three impact events. Standard biostratigraphic techniques have been employed to date the microspherule layers. However, analysis of the available data indicates that zonal biostratigraphy has been insufficient for the task, particularly if practiced with only one taxonomic group. A chronostratigraphic framework model constructed using the Graphic Correlation technique is used with calcareous and siliceous microfossil data to determine the position in time of the microspherule layers. The results indicate that there are not two or three different layers, but at least six and possibly more. There are at least three and probably more eastern American microspherule layers. There are three Indo-Pacific layers that do not seem to correlate with any of the American layers. All of the proven layers (not possibly the result of contamination) are spread out over a one-million-year period in the middle and upper Globigerinatheka semiinvoluta Biochronozone. A chronostratigraphic table contains correlations of various upper Eocene fossil and stratigraphic events.
10.2307/3515232|Detailed investigation of an exposed section through the Wanakah Shale Member of the Ludlowville Formation (Middle Devonian Hamilton Group) of western New York State reveals that deposition of this unit was influenced by a hierarchy of sea level cycles of similar magnitude and duration to global tectonoeustatic and climatoeustatic cycles defined in the field of sequence stratigraphy. The Wanakah Shale was deposited during a fourth-order cycle of sea level rise and fall and contains four fifth-order regressive-transgressive cyclic packages that roughly correspond to four lithostratigraphic submembers. Each of these includes five or six superimposed subcycles. This cyclicity is recognizable not only from lithologic evidence, especially in intervals where diagenetically enhanced marker beds are prevalent, but also from changes in faunal composition upward through the section. Larger-scale cycles are delineated by successions of depth- and turbidity-adapted benthic faunal assemblages, recording faunal tracking as these migrated up- and down-slope in response to benthic deepening and shallowing. The smaller-duration subcycles, associated with smaller-magnitude depth changes, are revealed by examination of cumulative frequency diagrams illustrating subtle bed-to-bed changes in faunal dominance through the section. Wanakah Shale cyclicity compares favorably to that which has been recognized in Cretaceous stratigraphic sequences in the Western Interior Basin of North America, where integration with a highly refined chronostratigraphic framework tied in with absolute dates provides convincing evidence for allogenic forcing mechanisms.
10.2307/3514664|Ostracodes from Deep Sea Drilling Project (DSDP) site 376 (Florence Rise, Levantine Basin) in the eastern Mediterranean have been studied to elucidate the environments of the "Lago Mare" during the Messinian (Late Miocene). Additional ostracode samples from the Lago Mare from DSDP site 372 (East Menorca Rise, Balearic Basin) in the western Mediterranean, and from outcrops in the Sorbas Basin in southeastern Spain, the Polemi Basin in Cyprus, and from the Sitia-Lithinais Basin in Crete, were also studied. All samples contained valves of the euryhaline ostracode genus Cyprideis for which the distribution coefficient K<sub>D</sub> for Sr and Mg is known from analyses of modern specimens grown in the laboratory and from modern field collections. Because the Sr/Ca of ostracode shells is controlled by the Sr/Ca of the host water, and because the Mg/Ca of the shells is controlled both by the Mg/Ca of the water and by water temperature, Ca, Sr, and Mg analyses of individual fossil Cyprideis shells from the Lago Mare indicate the environment in which they lived. Throughout the sequence at DSDP site 376, the water was fresh or close to fresh, except for layers just above the uppermost gypsum layers, at the base of the sequence where water with some marine affinity is recognized. Above these layers, the "continental" aspect of the Lago Mare water is indisputable. Chemical analyses of single ostracode shells from site 376 and the other sites mentioned above indicate that at no time during the life of the Cyprideis ostracodes was the Lago Mare connected to the ocean. Furthermore, there is no indication that the individual basins of the Mediterranean studied here were in direct connection to one another.
27670510|The Castlecomer Fauna, a Konservat-Lagersttte from the Upper Carboniferous of Ireland, is dominated by two species of exceptionally preserved spinicaudatan conchostracan branchiopod crustaceans; over 300 articulated specimens are known from short lengths of core from two boreholes. The spinicaudatans were entombed at various angles to bedding in thin event beds deposited in a paralic environment. Cuticle is the only tissue represented. The fossils are essentially two-dimensional as specimens collapsed following decay-induced loss of the structural strength of the cuticle. Some three-dimensionality was retained, however, as clay-grade material, probably sediment, infiltrated the carapace during or after burial, preventing the valves from being compacted to the same plane as the body of the specimen. Cuticle-lined voids created by decay of the labile tissues (notably within the tubelike antennal rami) were lined or infilled by authigenic clay minerals that were subsequently metamorphosed. The antennae, mandibles, distal parts of the claspers, and the telson are preserved in excellent detail, often retaining all or most of their original relief. Other anatomical features (antennal protopods, head, proximal part of claspers, trunk appendages) are usually preserved in two dimensions, either as a film of carbon or a dark-colored stain. The antennules, maxillules, and maxillae are rarely preserved. Decay experiments confirm that this variation reflects differences in the recalcitrance (thickness and degree of sclerotization) of the cuticle that covered different parts of the body. Complete decay of certain appendages precedes appreciable deterioration in the morphology of others. Some of the disparity exhibited by exceptionally preserved fossil arthropods is likely to be taphonomic rather than biological in origin.
10.2307/3514492|Taphocoenoses can be powerful indicators of ancient environments, even in depositional settings in which rates of sedimentation are low and tidal currents are strong. The rich subtropical molluscan fauna of the northern Gulf of California exhibits a distinct zonation across an extensive tidal flat at Bahia la Choya (Sonora, Mexico). The distribution of live faunas is largely controlled by substrate, energy level, availability of food, and period of submergence. Despite strong tidal currents and the effects of time-averaging, the distribution of taphocoenoses closely reflects the distribution of the live communities. Indeed, the zonation of individual species is often reflected in the distribution of their shelly remains. The outer flat, middle flat, inner flat, tidal channel, and salt marsh subenvironments within the tidal flat complex can be defined by the taxonomic composition, trophic/life habit groups and taphonomic attributes of their taphocoenoses. Gastropods dominate on hard and firm substrates (rocky flats, channel and marsh) while bivalves prevail on sandy substrates. Herbivores are most common on rocky and shelly substrates; detritus feeders occur on the firm substrates of the inner flat and marsh; suspension-feeders predominate in sandy and rocky bottoms. Shell abrasion, encrustation, and boring decrease landward. We tested an integrated approach to paleoenvironmental analysis by examining a Pleistocene shell bed from Bahia la Choya. Taxonomic, ecologic, and taphonomic criteria suggest deposition by a storm event in a very shallow subtidal to lowest intertidal environment.
10.2307/3515368|Northern Britain lay close to the equator during the Early Carboniferous and evidence, primarily from paleosols and predictions from climate models, indicates that it experienced a seasonal climate, perhaps linked to monsoonal circulation. This study further investigates the Early Carboniferous climate of northern Britain using anatomically preserved plant fossils (gymnosperm woods and leaves) from seven Asbian-Brigantian (333-339 Ma) localities. Many of the fossil woods exhibit growth rings that possess subtle, discontinuous ring boundaries and ring increments of variable width. These growth rings are qualitatively and quantitatively analyzed and compared with growth rings in modern Araucariacean conifers, which are believed to have a very similar phenology to the Carboniferous gymnosperms in question. The Carboniferous growth rings bear a remarkable similarity to those of Araucariaceans growing in the seasonal tropics today. It is concluded that these Carboniferous growth rings record a tropical seasonality, characterized by dry seasons of irregular duration and non-annual frequency, comparable to the climate of present-day northern Australia. Fossil leaves also exhibit an array of xeromorphic features such as hairy or rolled surfaces and greatly thickened cell walls, which although not diagnostic, are certainly consistent with the notion of seasonal water stress. It is suggested that the Asbian-Brigantian flora of northern Britain (which is gymnosperm-dominated in contrast to the more characteristic lycopod-dominated flora elsewhere) represents a tropical savanna-like biome.
40606483|The relationship between predator and prey is a persistent theme in marine paleontology. Herein we focus on the decapod Crustacea, the shrimps, lobsters, and crabs, and their role as predators on the Mollusca through geologic time. Five major means by which decapods crush shells or eat shelled prey might be recorded in the body-fossil record, as they require specialization of the appendages. These include use of (1) heterochelous first pereiopods, (2) molariform teeth on the fingers of the chelae, (3) a curved proximal tooth on the movable fnger of the chela, (4) calcified mandibles, and (5) flattened pereiopods (walking legs). Decapods have had adaptations for durophagous prdation on mollusks since the early Triassic. Durophagous adaptations had appeared among multiple clades by the Late Cretaceous. The myriad means by which decapods prey upon Mollusca, and the multiple uses for which pereiopods and other appendages are adapted, suggests that prdation studies should incorporate more decapod types and more types of prdation when examining prdation as a driver of evolution.
25835637|Previous comparative taphonomic studies have convincingly demonstrated that the taphonomic state of crinoid fossils is controlled largely by paleoenvironmental processes and constructional morphology. While taphonomic variability among depositional facies has a long history of investigation, the degree to which preservational heterogeneity is controlled by crinoid morphology has only recently been addressed and only at relatively coarse levels. Most studies to date have focused on taphonomic variability at the subclass or ordinal level, with little documentation of lower level taphonomic variation within a single crinoid subclass. A remarkably diverse, abundant, and well-preserved crinoid fauna, recovered from a single mudstone interval within the Upper Pennsylvanian (Missourian) Barnsdall Formation in northeastern Oklahoma, midcontinent North America, provides a unique opportunity to examine taphonomic trends among poteriocrine cladid crinoids at refined taxonomic levels. Genus-level variations in specimen completeness, axis of compaction, arm position, and features attributed to decay and scavenging are observed within this assemblage and taphonomic trends related primarily to the size of individuals are detected. These results indicate that taphonomic variability extends at least to genus level within the subclass Cladida. Understanding this variability is important in interpreting the genesis and nature of crinoid-bearing units, as minor variations in morphology, ethology, and scavenger preferences impart unexpected biostratinomic heterogeneity to Copan crinoid fauna that would otherwise be difficult to explain. Taphonomic variability at low taxonomic levels and the influence of preferential scavenging should be accounted for in future crinoid taphonomic grade studies, particularly in Pennsylvanian and younger deposits, in order to avoid taphonomic assumptions that may be overly broad.
27670447|The Crystal Geyser Dinosaur Quarry, near Green River, Utah, is located at the base of the Lower Cretaceous (Barremian) Yellow Cat Member of the Cedar Mountain Formation. The quarry preserves a nearly monospecific accumulation of a new basal therizinosauroid, Falcarius utahensis. We used field descriptions and petrographic analysis to determine the depositional environment and development of the quarry strata. Results of these analyses suggest that the quarry represents multiple episodes of bone accumulation buried by spring and overbank flood deposits. Evidence for these previously undescribed spring deposits includes calcite macroscopic structures within the quarry stratasuch as pisolites and travertine fragmentsand calcite micromorphologiesincluding radial-fibrous, feather, and scandulitic dendrite morphologies and tufa clasts. At least two episodes of bone incorporation are preserved in the quarry based on their stratigraphic position and lithologic associations. The unique depositional setting in and around the Crystal Geyser Dinosaur Quarry appears to have been favorable for the preservation of vertebrate fossils and provides insight into early Cretaceous environments in North America.
40960985|High productivity on the Florida Platform during the Pliocene has been ascribed to upwelling and to freshwater input of nutrients. To test these hypotheses, high-resolution stable isotopic and Sr/Ca analyses have been performed on 14 Conus and Turritella gastropod shells collected from the middle Pliocene Pinecrest Beds (Units 7 and 4) and the Plio-Pleistocene Caloosahatchee Formation. Assuming a published Pliocene seawater O of 1.02 derived from a coupled ocean-atmosphere general circulation model (OAGCM), reconstructed paleotemperatures of Units 7 and 4, and the Caloosahatchee are respectively 25.1  1.4 C, 16.1  0.6 C, and 22.4  0.5 C. Unit 7 paleotemperatures are similar to, and Caloosahatchee paleotemperatures slightly lower than, modern sea surface temperatures (SSTs) in the Sarasota Bay (24.5  0.4 C). In contrast, Unit 4 paleotemperatures are unrealistically low. Sr/Ca ratios, however, suggest no significant paleotemperature difference between Pinecrest Units 7 and 4 and the Caloosahatchee Formation, indicating seawater O variations, rather than temperature differences, are responsible for O differences. High O and low O values of these samples likely reflect highly evaporated freshwater input combined with oxidation of terrestrial debris, as a brackish environment is indicated by marine and freshwater fauna in Unit 4. This isotopic pattern is similar to that for modern Florida Bay mollusks, which are influenced by discharge of Everglades waters. Furthermore, episodic enrichments in Fe, U, and P in some shells suggest nutrient input from submarine groundwater discharge. The data, therefore, support the contention that the dominant cause of high productivity in this region was enhanced nutrient input from freshwater influx.
27670390|A consensus on the biostratigraphic age and depositional environment of the Navidad, Ranquil, and Lacui formations exposed along the tectonic margin of central Chile has been elusive due to conflicting evidence. This study resolves this dilemma and gains further insight regarding the history of the Chilean coast. Problematic interpretations stem primarily from the remarkable similarity between the molluscan fauna of these units with those well documented for the late Oligocene to early Miocene of Peru. Planktic foraminifers, however, indicate that the Chilean sections accumulated in the late Miocene to early Pliocene interval following a regional hiatus that extends into the Eocene. The prevalence of mixed-depth bathyal assemblages of benthic foraminifers and ostracodes, the majority of which include lower-bathyal (>2000 m) indicators, reveals that downslope displacement was a primary mode of deposition in the basins. Although the molluscan assemblages are dominated by shallow marine taxa, most include species that range into or are restricted to deeper waters. Sedimentary features cannote rapid subsidence and deep-water deposition of gravity flows. Although older Tertiary and Cretaceous planktic foraminifers in several assemblages indicate reworking of older units, lack of data on pre-Tortonian faunas of this region precludes recognition of other age-discordant components that could constitute a significant portion of the recovered fauna. The findings of this study revise the prevailing conception of the region's geologic history that considered these units to be early to middle Miocene shelf deposits and indicate that infilling and uplift have characterized the nearshore basins since the late Pliocene.
27670578|Chemosynthetic ecosystems teeming with tubeworm colonies were discovered at hydrothermal vents in the Galapagos Ridge in 1977 and at cold seeps at the base of the Florida Escarpment in 1984. As a result of these reports a number of fossil examples were identified in the rock record. One such assemblage was recognized in the Western Interior Seaway, in the Middle Campanian Pierre Shale Formation, where previous researchers noted siboglinid (formerly vestimentiferan and pogonophoran) tubeworms in methane-derived nodular limestones with tubules. On the inside these tubules have an outer ring of micrite with microparticulate siliciclastic materials and a core of calcite cement. Alternatively, they have an outer annulus of calcite cement and a core of microparticulate siliciclastic materials with calcite cements. Interestingly, the cemented cores can contain meniscate and vesiculate fabrics in association with the microparticulate linings. With this evidence we infer that the tubules preserve fabrics of former gas bubbles; the microparticulate linings are deposits that accumulated on the walls of the tubules as fluids streamed through them. Methane bubbles would have carried adhered siliciclastic microparticles and bubble wakes would have held entrained microparticles. We, thus, interpret the tubules to be former, small, subseafloor conduits along which fluid and particulate transport occurred. Particle transport by gas bubbles is a well-known process in chemical and mineral industries. Our observations highlight this process for the first time in an ancient geologic conduit system and provide a mechanism for maintaining particulate plumes that accompany effusing methane streams at modern seeps and vents.
10.2307/3515486|Evidence from leaf-margin analysis and vegetational physiognomy indicates that a mid-Cretaceous flora from the South Island of New Zealand grew at a mean annual temperature of 10C. This compares with an identical estimate derived from a coeval flora in northern Alaska. Both floras grew at about the same latitude and in coastal plain settings. This study provides the first direct comparison of non-marine near-polar climates in the pre-Tertiary record.
40865498|Thirty-two samples of submerged Nautilus macromphalus shells were recovered in 2008 from Lifou, Loyalty Islands in the South Pacific Ocean. Specimens were collected from carbonate-dominated sediment in water depths of 1-3 m. Some specimens were partly buried, whereas others rested on the seafloor. The majority of the specimens (66%) were recovered in a horizontal position, whereas 34% of the specimens were oriented vertically. Some specimens were pristine, with sharp color stripes and little encrustation by algae, cyanobacteria, or epizoans. The majority of specimens have substantial algal and cyanobacterial overcoats with some epizoans. In some specimens, the overcoats also trapped substantial amounts of carbonate sediment. Comparison of the 2008 collection of subtidal specimens to 43 beached Nautilus shells collected in 2002 from the same location reveals that the nearshore taphonomic pathways for drift cephalopod shells can be more complicated than published theoretical models suggest. Nautilus shells may or may not float directly to the beach. Shells not immediately deposited on the beach sink in the shallow water in a vertical position. Weight added by attached organisms and water infiltration, causes the submerged shells to eventually assume a horizontal position. Waves, currents, and bioturbation can then flip the shells over from side to side. Eventually submerged shells are buried, broken apart, or transported onto the beach. Beached shells that follow this taphonomic pathway have conspicuous algal coatings compared to those that simply float to shore. The Lifou subtidal population represents the first substantial modern externally shelled cephalopod collection from a shallow water environment to be analyzed to determine its taphonomic pathways. Conclusions from this analysis can be applied to nearshore deposits that contain externally shelled, fossilized cephalopods.
3515667|Integrated analysis of the ichnology, sedimentology, geochemistry, and fossil content of three trace fossil-bearing calcareous paleosols from the early Eocene Gran Salitral Formation is used to reconstruct the detailed paleoenvironmental and paleoecological setting of this insect-dominated ichnofossil association. This continental sequence, located in southwestern La Pampa province (Argentina), is composed of palustrine marls and minor lacustrine mudstones and sandstones arranged in shallowing-upward cycles. The ichnologic association is the first comprehensively described from a palustrine sequence and could be used for future comparisons with other similar assemblages. The ichnofauna is dominated by bee cells, Celliforma germanica, C. roselli, and Rosellichnus isp; Teisseirei barattinia, an insect trace fossil that is redescribed and recorded for the first time outside its type locality; Taenidium barretti; and Skolithos linearis. The ichnologic association also includes ovoid structures, ornamented burrow fillings, and plant trace fossils (rootlets, rhizoliths, and a tree/shrub stump). Abundant freshwater (Pomacea sp.) and terrestrial gastropods (Plagiodontes spp., Bostryx sp., and Bulimulus sp.) are used to characterize the paleoenvironmental setting. The weakly developed paleosols are interpreted as Inceptisols, developed in a low-gradient lake margin periodically exposed to pedogenesis with low (probably saline) vegetation and sparse shrubs. They developed under a semi-arid and warm climate (mean annual temperature higher than 20C). Short saline/alkaline conditions were prevalent during lake lowstands, accompanied by incipient karst development. The association of trace fossils is attributed provisionally to the Coprinisphaera ichnofacies, although its distinctive features and recurrence in time and space may deserve recognition as a separate ichnofacies.
10.2307/3514575|An anomalous Devonian sequence was mapped in the South Hill area, south of Eureka, Nevada, by Nolan et al. (1974), with their South Hill Sandstone in the position of the Woodpecker Limestone. The South Hill Sandstone is actually a tongue of Oxyoke Canyon Sandstone, and the dolomite beneath it, mapped by Nolan et al. (1974) as Sentinel Mountain Dolomite, is Sadler Ranch Formation. With these revised formation assignments, the South Hill Devonian sequence is similar to the sequence at Modoc Peak and is no longer anomalous.
25835602|Localized accumulations of small vertebrate fossils are relatively common in the Hell Creek Formation (latest MaastrichtianPaleocene) and have traditionally been collected using nonstandardized field methods. The lack of established protocols has resulted in biased datasets and assemblage interpretations. Two commonly used collection methods were compared from two different microvertebrate localities in the Upper Cretaceous part of the Hell Creek Formation of southeastern Montana in order to identify their influence on taphonomic interpretations. The first of these methods was surface collection, in which weathered specimens were picked from the surface of the rock and in talus piles. This method commonly involves the selection and collection of larger and more easily identifiable specimens. The second method used in this study was quarrying and disaggregation, which requires excavation, collection, and total screen rinsing of a large volume of rock; this method was utilized in order to recover all fossils present. Both methods were applied at a sandstone-dominated and a mudstone-dominated site to assess an absolute concentration of fossils for each technique. Results of a quantitative analysis of these two common collection methods demonstrate how each one influences fossil recovery according to shape and size by skewing the characteristics of collected fossil assemblages and the taphonomic interpretations of microvertebrate accumulations. Although the study sites reflect only two possible types of microvertebrate localities, the results are applicable to many microvertebrate studies.
3515484|Permineralized fossil plants in coal balls were collected along a kilometer transect through an organic-rich shale in the Springfield Coal in southwestern Indiana. The organic shale is an upper bench of the Springfield Coal in an area where the coal is split into an upper and lower bench by a complex system of clastics that originated as a splay. The clastic wedge, described as the Folsomville Member/Leslie Cemetery paleochannel, is up to 6 km wide and 15 m thick. The transect begins approximately 100 m from the edge of the clastic wedge that splits the coal seam and follows the upper bench of coal over and toward the center of the clastic wedge. The dominant elements of the vegetation were the lycopsid tree Paralycopodites brevifolius and several species of medullosan pteridosperms. This report confirms the ecotonal habitats of this vegetation.
3515347|Sclerochronology, the study of periodic increments in skeletal organisms, can decipher the life history and environmental records preserved in fossil shells. Two powerful tools used in sclerochronologic studies are oxygen and carbon isotope profiles. Although many studies have applied isotopic analyses to marine shells, few have examined isotope profiles from estuaries. One common inhabitant of estuaries is the crassostreine oyster, which preserves a sclerochronologic record on the ligamental area surface in the form of external convex and concave bands. This study examines <sup>18</sup>O and <sup>13</sup>C profiles across ligamental increments found in Crassostrea virginica shells from the recent of Terrebonne Bay, Mississippi Delta, and the Pleistocene of Chesapeake Bay, Virginia. Results show that Mississippi Delta oysters calcified their shells close to isotopic equilibrium with respect to their environment. Three skeletal breaks found in one oyster formed from cessation of shell growth when summer temperature exceeded 27<sup></sup> C. <sup>18</sup>O profiles show that ligamental increments formed annually from varying growth rates through the year, with convex bands forming from rapid growth during spring and summer, and concave bands forming from slower growth during winter. Chesapeake oysters have well-defined ligamental increments with deep concave bands that formed from slow growth and cessation during winter. Skeletal growth breaks suggest that temperature decreased below 10<sup></sup> C during winter. Estimated Pleistocene <sup>18</sup>O<sub>water</sub> values are similar to published recent <sup>18</sup>O<sub>water</sub> values measured at the mouth of the Chesapeake Bay. Two important factors affecting shell <sup>13</sup>C values are metabolic changes and occurrence of phytoplankton blooms. Ranges of shell <sup>13</sup>C values are similar to <sup>13</sup>C<sub>DIC</sub> values measured from water samples, which indicate that oyster <sup>13</sup>C profiles are tracking changes in environmental DIC, such as changes related to phytoplankton blooms and benthic respiration. Summer <sup>13</sup>C maxima may be related to recovery from gametogenesis. These results demonstrate that stable isotope sclerochronology of oyster shells facilitates the interpretation of past estuarine environments and oyster life histories.
27670544|Large-bodied, semiaquatic herbivorous mammals have been a recurring component of most continental ecosystems throughout the Cenozoic. Identification of these species in the fossil record has largely been based on the morphological similarities with present-day hippopotamids, leading to the designation of this pairing of body type and ecological niche as the hippo ecomorph. These morphological characters, however, may not always be diagnostic of aquatic habits. Here, enamel 13C and 18O values from living hippopotamuses were examined to define an isotopic signature unique to the hippo ecomorph. Although 13C values do not support unique foraging habits for this ecomorph, living and fossil hippopotamids typically have low mean 18O values relative to associated ungulates that fit a linear regression (18Ohippopotamids = 0.96  0.0918Ofauna  1.67  2.97; r2 = 0.886, p < 0.001). Modeling of oxygen fluxes in large mammals suggests that high water-turnover rates or increased water loss through feces and urine may explain this relationship. This relationship was then used to assess the aquatic adaptation of four purported hippo ecomorphs from the fossil record: Coryphodon (early Eocene), Moeritherium and Bothriogenys (early Oligocene), and Teleoceras (middlelate Miocene). Only fossil specimens of Moeritherium, Bothriogenys, and large species of Coryphodon had 18O values expected for hippo ecomorphs; 18O values for Teleoceras and a small species of Coryphodon were not significantly different from those of the associated fauna. These results show that the mean 18O value of fossil specimens is an effective tool for assessing the aquatic habits of extinct species.
10.2307/3514474|Plant-sociological and climatic classification of the Australian Nothofagus cunninghamii rain forest provides the basis for a new, semiquantitative approach to interpretations of late-Quaternary paleoclimates from four pollen sequences in southwestern Tasmania. Varying proportions of rain-forest pollen types in the records were related to different modern rain-forest alliances and their specific climatic regimes, such as Eastern Rain Forest, Leatherwood Rain Forest, and sclerophyllous, Subalpine Rain Forest. According to this interpretation, early Holocene climates were characterized by 1,600 mm annual precipitation and 10C annual temperature, conditions substantially warmer and drier than previously thought. Maximum precipitation levels of 2,500 mm annually were not reached until 8,000 years B.P. A short-term cooling episode between 6,000 and 5,000 years B.P. led to the establishment of modern rain-forest distribution in western Tasmania, characterized either by a precipitation gradient steeper than before, or by greater climatic variability. To interpret paleoclimates from before 12,000 years B.P., when non-arboreal environments dominated in western Tasmanian pollen records, various modern treeless environments were studied in search for analogs. Contrary to earlier interpretations, late-glacial environments were not alpine tundra with a treeline at modern sea level, but steppe, with marshes or shallow lakes instead of the modern lakes. Climate was characterized by 50% less precipitation than today, resulting in substantial summer droughts. To explain such drastic precipitation decrease, the westerlies that dominate Tasmanian climate today must have been shifted polewards. This suggestion is supported by climate models that take Milankovitch-type insolation differences into account as well as sea-surface temperatures. Paleolimnological information based on diatom analyses support the general paleoclimatic reassessment.
27670453|Wyoming is famous for its deep structural basins containing both abundant vertebrate fossils and uranium-ore deposits in the form of roll fronts. Research conducted in The Breaks, an area of badlands in the northeastern corner of the Hanna Basin, south-central Wyoming, shows that these two disparate phenomena have an important relationship. Vertebrate bones and teeth, composed of bioapatite, are chemically stable under most diagenetic conditions. The chemical changes that occur at the leading edge of a propagating roll front, however, are capable of eliminating these fossils. This happens as pyrite is oxidized, which releases sulfuric acid to the ground water. Sulfuric acid reacts vigorously with apatite, releasing soluble phosphate. Phosphate liberated from the dissolved bones and teeth provides a valuable, often limiting, nutrient to plants or lichens once the roll front is exposed on the ground surface. In The Breaks, bedrock permeability is the most important factor controlling the distribution of roll fronts and, therefore, also of vertebrate fossils. Thus, patterns of roll-front distribution, observed from differing lithologic characteristics or floral assemblages growing on the rock, might provide a useful prospecting tool for paleontologists.
10.2307/3515264|The Racine Formation of southeastern Wisconsin contains a diverse reef fauna of Silurian (Wenlockian) age. A collection of more than 10,000 specimens from this fauna includes 191 species and 38 guilds of reef constructors, binders, bafflers and dwellers. Constructors and binders include stromatoporoids, tabulates, rugosans and bryozoans; bafflers include branching tabulates and dendroid rugosans. Only locally do these groups form a skeletal framework, and for the most part, their remains are separated by reef matrix. Reef dwellers are represented by diverse guilds of brachiopods, gastropods, cephalopods, trilobites and echinoderms, and they also include receptaculitids, sponges, solitary rugosans, bryozoans and bivalves. Tiering within the fauna is well developed and probably extended to a height of 1 m above reef surfaces. This reef fauna exhibits higher species diversity, greater numbers of guilds and more extensive tiering than Silurian level-bottom communities. Relatively few of its taxa, however, are restricted to Silurian reef environments. Constructors, binders and bafflers in the reef fauna have morphologic and taxonomic parallels in level-bottom communities, as do nearly all taxa of reef dwellers. Higher diversity in the reef fauna is not a function of specialized reef guilds and species, but results from packing of more species into the same guilds which are present in level-bottom communities. In this regard, the Silurian reef fauna differs fundamentally from that of today and reflects the generally low grade of ecologic complexity of the Paleozoic evolutionary fauna.
10.2307/3515632|Polystrata alba (Pfender) Denizot, 1968 (Peyssonneliaceae, Rhodophyta) in Late Eocene algal limestones of the Upper Austrian Alpine Foreland Basin forms (1) horizontal crusts, (2) subspherical and irregular, unilayered rhodoliths with sediment-filled inner cavities, and (3) rhodoliths. Most of the described growth forms are unique and previously have not been described from fossil material. Comparisons with present-day analogues, however, reveal that most growth features can be explained by the interplay between sediment input and bottom stability. This actualistic approach allows the reconstruction of paleoecologic and taphonomic processes that influenced both growth forms of P. alba and the resulting sedimentary facies. The model described in this study provides a useful tool for the reconstruction of paleoenvironmental conditions.
10.2307/3514788|Foraminiferal-algal nodules, 2 to 15 cm in size, are actively growing in depths of 30 to 60 m on insular shelves in the eastern Caribbean. These nodules are characterized by two-part internal structures: an outer envelope, 1 to 3 cm thick, of well-preserved, concentrically laminated crusts of Gypsina and/or coralline algae, and an inner core of coral, or, more commonly, an altered nodule that has been extensively bored, infilled, and lithified. The outer envelopes are less than 600 years old; the cores are variable in age-some are modern, others may be relict. The internal structure and ages of shelf nodules in the eastern Caribbean are similar to those of deep-water nodules in a number of other locations. Abrupt transitions from well-preserved outer envelopes to altered cores in all of these nodules suggest hiatuses in growth, possibly related to burial; the transitions are not as previously interpreted, related to a change from shallow to deep water associated with the Holocene transgression. Re-evaluation of aspects of nodules that have been proposed as paleoecologic indicators (shape, coralline-algal growth form, biotic assemblages, and diagenetic alteration) shows that, in the eastern Caribbean, these parameters have little predictable relationship with specific environmental conditions.
27670446|The Crystal Geyser Dinosaur Quarry contains a large monospecific accumulation of bones from a basal therizinosaur, Falcarius utahensis. The quarry is located approximately 16 km south of Green River, Utah, at the base of the early Cretaceous (Barremian) Yellow Cat Member of the Cedar Mountain Formation. Fossil bones in the quarry occur in three units that have distinct taphonomic, lithologic, and geochemical characteristics. Rare earth element compositions of fossils suggest that bones from each unit were drawn from different reservoirs or sources having distinctly different compositions, and fossils were not reworked between units. Compositions of bones differ greatly within Units 1 and 2, even within the same 1-m2 quarry grid. These chemical differences and taphonomic characteristics, such as current orientation, hydraulic sorting, and occasional extensive abrasion, suggest that bones from these two units are allochthonous and were fossilized at other localities, possibly over an area of several kilometers, and were then eroded, transported, and concentrated in a spring-influenced fluvial environment. Bones in Unit 3 have very similar rare earth element signatures, suggesting that they were probably fossilized in situ at a separate time from bones in Units 1 and 2. At least two mass mortality events were responsible for the monospecific assemblage of bones at the quarry. Because bones may have been concentrated from a wide area, causes of mass mortality must have been regionally extensive, possibly owing to seasonal drought, sudden changes in weather, or disease.
3515180|The distribution and abundance of Middle Ordovician (upper Whiterockian through lower Mohawkian) brachiopod genera along an onshore-offshore gradient in eastern North America is investigated through an analysis of field collections and an analysis of data from Cooper's monograph (1956). Six biofacies are recognized that occur in shore-parallel environmental zones ranging from intertidal to deep basin environments. A lingulid biofacies is found in nearshore, intertidal siliciclastic deposits. Rostricellula-Doleroides, Strophomena, and Sowerbyella biofacies occur in restricted subtidal, shoreface to transition zone, and transition zone environments, respectively. These biofacies are broadly distributed in shallow water carbonates across the North American craton. Paucicrura-plectambonitacean and inarticulate biofacies occur in offshore and deep basin environments, respectively, and are restricted to craton margin settings. A possible seventh biofacies composed of the Orthidae may be present in carbonate buildups and adjacent environments. The distribution of brachiopod biofacies through time and space was governed by changes in bathymetry and lateral shifts in lithofacies associated with basin evolution. Recognizing these patterns of distribution clarifies previous biostratigraphic and biogeographic interpretations of this fauna. By the Middle Ordovician, articulates had diversified to become important components of all marine environments except the deep basin; inarticulates were most important in offshore and basinal settings. This pattern is consistent with hypotheses of displacement of the Cambrian fauna (inarticulate brachiopods) by the offshore expansion of the Paleozoic fauna (articulate brachiopods). Two orders, the Rhynchonellida and the Atrypida, originated in the Middle Ordovician. Members of the Rhynchonellida occur only in nearshore environments, further supporting the previously recognized pattern of onshore origin of higher taxa. The environment of origin of the Atrypida is less clear; however, members of this order are most diverse in nearshore environments suggesting at least a nearshore diversification early in the history of the group.
10.2307/3514449|Analysis of pollen recovered from mineral-rich glaciolacustrine sediments indicates hydrodynamic sorting of grains occurred before final deposition. Percentages of nonarboreal pollen are greatest in fine deltaic sands. Arboreal pollen is preferentially concentrated in lacustrine silt and clay. Similar results have been reported from studies of fluvial and estuarine sediments and from laboratory experiments. The most important result of this study is the demonstration of effective sorting of arboreal pollen. Spruce (Picea) occurs most abundantly in coarse silts, and alder (Alnus) is most abundant in fine silts and clays. These observations suggest that caution should be exercised in the paleoecologic interpretation of pollen spectra obtained from mineral-rich lacustrine sediments.
10.2307/3515058|Coenobita clypeatus, the purple-clawed (terrestrial) hermit crab, almost exclusively uses the extinct shells (fossil and subfossil) of the West Indian topshell, Cittarium pica in Bermuda. These coenobitid crustaceans were found to: (1) taphonomically modify the Cittarium shells, and (2) caused temporal reworking of the extinct shells within a modern community. Fossil shells inhabited by these crabs had extreme apertural modifications: missing columellar and umbilicular areas, and outer lip ridges. Additionally, almost all shells possessed a drag mark region. Modern Cittarium inhabited by hermits from the Bahamas have similar modifications, except lack the outer lip ridge. Living Cittarium have no such modifications. Using these taphonomic criteria, one-third (18%) of in situ (collected) Pleistocene shells from Bermuda were once-occupied by Pleistocene hermits. These findings elucidate, in part, the enigma of why a large marine shell (Cittarium) is present in back-beach, dune and paleosol deposits in the Pleistocene of Bermuda. A legend until now, the transport of marine shells by terrestrial hermits in the Pleistocene allowed the now marginal population (n = <150) of hermits to live on the mainland of Bermuda. Contrary to previous reports, the fossil shell supply is not dwindling, but the chief limiting factor that affects the quantity of shells is the periodicity of hurricanes. Importantly, if these taphonomic criteria are not used, misrepresentation of the paleoenvironment or anomalous age of deposit (i.e., using one shell) will result from this phenomenon of biological remanie.
20172965| Naraoiids in the Kaili biota (Taijiangian Stage, Wulingian Series, lower Middle Cambrian) are preserved in a variety of taphonomic states. Decomposition, entombment, and fossil diagenesis of Kaili naraoiid specimens (n = 69) are described. The decay rates of appendages, internal organs, and dorsal sclerites are different, and should be treated as separate taphonomic elements. A classification scheme to delineate the preservational states is proposed here to distinguish carcasses from molts in deposits with exceptional preservation. For example, at least 35% of Kaili naraoiids represent carcasses. Among them, 21% of individuals are interpreted as having been buried alive (Type A preservational state) and 79% showed some evidence of decay prior to burial (Type B preservational state). 65% of naraoiids can be either molts or decayed carcasses, and molts typically are articulated (Type C preservational state). Disarticulated (Type D preservational state) specimens are rare. Kaili naraoiids were buried in three orientations with respect to bedding: (1) parallel, (2) oblique, and (3) folded-over (specimens with noticeably shortened anterior shields). Due to the nature of the naraoiid bauplan, most specimens (77%) tend to be buried parallel to bedding. All naraoiid specimens with folded-over anterior shields (10%) represent carcasses. Identified taphonomic modifications caused by post-burial processes include extruded gut contents, three-dimensionally preserved internal organs, and sclerite fractures. Preservation of three-dimensional soft-parts accompanied by flattened hard-parts is interpreted here as the result of syndiagenetic anaerobic microbial decay. The relief and size of preserved midguts depend on: (1) availability of volatile tissues, (2) abundance and types of microbes, and (3) duration of anaerobic microbial decay prior to compactional dewatering. 
10.2307/3515203|Attempts to establish relative frequencies of skeletal parts as distinctive of particular bone accumulating and depositional agents have a deep history in taphonomic research. Various authors have developed a set of mathematically equivalent statistics and equations all of which are meant to measure the relative or percentage frequencies of skeletal parts. None of these clearly accounts for differential fragmentation of skeletal elements in part because the quantitative units used in them are not explicitly defined. Comparisons of frequencies of skeletal parts deposited by different bone-accumulating agents and reported by different analysts may thus be comparisons of differential fragmentation rather than differential deposition of skeletal parts. Use of the minimum number of skeletal elements as the unit of quantification when comparing frequencies of skeletal specimens accumulated and deposited by different taphonomic agents circumvents the problem of differential fragmentation. In conjunction with the proportion of whole skeletal elements deposited and the ratio of the number of specimens (bone fragments) to the minimum number of skeletal elements, skeletal part frequencies may eventually be shown to be a valuable quantitative unit for taphonomic analysis.
3515760|The potential of fossil wood and charcoal from browncoal deposits as sources of reliable paleoenvironmental information is explored with material from the Lower Rhine Embayment (Germany). The presence of charcoalified material demonstrates proof of natural wildfires in Tertiary mire environments, most probably during, or after periods of increased drainage and drying of surface vegetation and litter. The results presented suggest that sampling from charcoal layers may provide a more statistically reliable data set for study of such environments. Inclusion of taxa recovered from charcoal layers might compensate for the taphonomic and preservational bias of Tertiary lignitic floras based solely on the collection of lignitic wood. These data confirm the hypothesis that, during certain intervals of the Miocene, both monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous angiosperms might have dominated or represented significant portions of the peat-forming vegetation. The importance of palms and shrubby woody taxa, such as 'Cyrilla', is particularly striking from new evidence of charcoalified remains. In addition, certain wood anatomical features observed from well preserved lignitic wood and charcoal may be used as indicators of environmentally modulated growth: (1) clear growth rings testify to the existence of a seasonal climate; (2) wide variations in growth ring characters indicate variable environmental conditions; and (3) high incidence of dicotyledonous taxa, with abundant small vessels and scalariform perforation plates, is interpreted as evidence of a mesic environment.
20173007|No temporal trend in the intensity of drilling by naticids on Glycymeris yessoensis can be recognized during the late Cenozoic. Drilling sites shifted from the umbo to the center of the valve during the late Cenozoic. This shift might reflect the change of predators from Glossaulax in the Miocene to Cryptonatica or Euspira in the Pleistocene. Borehole sites in the middle Pleistocene were more stereotyped than in the early Pleistocene population despite the same predators. Edge drilling, which is a faster drilling method, first appeared in the population showing high drilling intensities in the early Pleistocene. Because a prediction of the hypothesis of escalation is that changes in predators' behavior developed through time, these changes in drilling location may be the results of escalation. In contrast with the stereotypic trend of borehole sites, correlation coefficients of predator-prey size decreased from the early to the middle Pleistocene.
10.2307/3515593|Short stratigraphic sections in apparently monotonous strata pose several challenges to high-resolution (<1 m) correlation. A lack of distinctive marker horizons can prevent obvious visual correlations between the sections. The stratigraphic shortness of the outcrops further reduces the likelihood of any given section having a recognizable marker horizon. The Upper Ordovician Kope Formation of the Cincinnati, Ohio, area exhibits both of these problems and correlation within the Kope has not been accomplished easily, to date. However, cross-correlation of meter-scale cycles in the Kope can be used to identify potential correlations of small outcrops to larger, well-described outcrops. If multiple correlations are equally plausible, large-scale faunal transitions among facies fossils can then be used to select the best correlation. In this pilot study, two sections separated by 9 km are correlated successfully using these methodologies, which show promise for the correlation of numerous outcrops in the Cincinnati area. In addition, the methods described here may be applied easily to other areas of limited outcrop in which the rocks are so complexly cyclic that they, likewise, appear to be monotonous.
20172993|A recently discovered dinosaur tracksite from the Upper Jurassic Morrison Formation, Bighorn Basin, Wyoming, contains abundant sauropod tracks that exhibit varying degrees of preservation. Most of these tracks appear as indistinct bulges on the bottoms of sandstone beds, but several are well preserved and show foot-pad and skin impressions. Three track morphotypes are recognized: a sauropod pes print, a Brontopodus-like manus print, and a diplodocid manus print. The Brontopodus-like manus print most likely represents the footprint of a brachiosaur. This morpho-type also contains evidence of phalangeal nodes--the first reported for a sauropod manus. The diplodocid manus print is unique because it contains impressions of a substantial ungual on digit I and a heel pad. A partial sauropod track cast also contains an impression of interlocking, polygonal scales. This is only the second known North American sauropod footprint that contains skin impressions. The spectrum of preservational quality of the tracks and associated trace fossils is used to infer the relative moisture content of the original substrate. Moisture content of the original substrate is estimated to have been moist to border-line saturated. Observations of the tracks at the study areas also are used to establish a list of features that can be used to distinguish deep vertebrate tracks from load casts resulting from gravity-induced soft-sediment deformation.
10.2307/3515192|Actualistic taphonomy can elucidate aspects of the fossil record that would otherwise be uninterpretable. Investigation of taphonomic alteration patterns in modern cyanobacteria permits evaluation of preservation biases and decomposition timescales in the Precambrian rock record. In this study a method for assessing alteration of filamentous cyanobacteria was developed, and cyanobacterial decomposition was evaluated during short-term (days to months) experiments. Results indicate that extracellular sheaths are more likely to be preserved than are trichomes, and that rates of decomposition are variable among cyanobacterial taxa. The effects of oxygen, temperature, and desiccation on taphonomic alteration were also investigated. Desiccation of cyanobacteria produces cell shriveling, a feature that may be diagnostic of evaporitic environments. Short-term decomposition of cyanobacteria by heterotrophic bacteria under anaerobic and aerobic conditions did not produce systematically different degradation patterns; thus, alteration patterns are of limited utility for constraining the oxygen content of depositional environments. Rapid rates of decomposition suggest that in order to achieve excellent morphological preservation, heterotrophic activity must have ceased within days to weeks of deposition. These results provide constraints on the timing of lithification for comparable Precambrian lagersttten.
27670594|We document a new locality for the foraminiferid Bathysiphon at Pacheco Pass, California, a classic blueschist-facies location on the eastern edge of the Franciscan Complex. The nearly featureless, silicified tubes of Bathysiphon cf. aaltoi Miller, 1986 described here are the largest reported from the Franciscan Complex; they are <153 mm long and easily recognized in the field. The rarity of fossils in the Franciscan Subduction Complex has hindered field mapping and, thus, a better understanding of its stratigraphy and structure. Bathysiphon specimens can be used as geopetal indicators, since they occur parallel to bedding at the top of argillaceous layers, as paleocurrent indicators (showing a SSE trend at Pacheco Pass), and as paleobathymetric indicators, suggesting, by their large size, mid-to-lower bathyal depths (20004000 m).
10.2307/3515394|New investigations of mid-Ashgill brachiopod faunas with Foliomena in an onshore to offshore transect in the border region of Zhejiang-Jiangxi provinces, East China, indicate a remarkable increase in numbers of Foliomena folium (Barrande) with significant variations of faunal composition, diversity, and abundance from shallow-water to deep-water environments. Based on data from China and elsewhere, faunas with Foliomena are partitioned into typical and atypical associations. The typical Foliomena fauna is characterized by Foliomena along with some distinctive constituents (such as Dedzetina, Leptestiina, Christiania, and Cyclospira), and is essentially located in deep-water environments (mainly BA 5-6). The atypical Foliomena fauna is represented by those assemblages in which rare Foliomena is associated with various genera such as Kassinella at different localities representing shallower environments (outer BA 3-BA 4). The Foliomena fauna previously was reported as latest Caradoc to early Ashgill in age. New Chinese data demonstrate that it ranges from the early Caradoc (Nemagraptus gracilis Biozone) to the mid-Ashgill. It reached its evolutionary acme in the early Ashgill and became extinct before the Hirnantian. Paleobiogeographically, it is associated with eight paleoplates within the Kosov Province, where the shallow-water Hirnantia fauna was widely distributed later in the Hirnantian. Continuous and gradual changes in the taxonomic composition and ecological niches of the Foliomena associations across a range of depths may indicate that the distribution of faunas with Foliomena may not be controlled always by the position of the thermocline. Distribution of the typical Foliomena fauna in time and space verifies a successful early Paleozoic ecological experiment in the marine benthos: brachiopods expanded their ranges into vacant deep-water benthic niches to exploit soft substrates associated with dark, possibly oligotrophic conditions.
10.2307/3515091|The close-packing of calcified organisms necessary for reef development is achieved either by larval aggregation (aclonal/solitary metazoans) or by competition for limited or patchy hard substrate (clonal/modular metazoans and encrusting algae). Buildups constructed predominantly by aclonal/solitary metazoans tend to be small, ephemeral soft-substrate communities, with relatively low relief, spatial heterogeneity and biotic diversity. In contrast, frameworks constructed by clonal/modular metazoans or encrusting calcified algae are often sizeable, longlived structures with high topographic complexity, diversity and biomass. Several groups of fossil organisms currently considered as major reef-builders may be re-interpreted either as common cryptobionts (early Cambrian archaeocyath sponges, Paleozoic-Mesozoic sphinctozoan sponges) or as soft-substrate platform dwellers (Paleozoic-Mesozoic stromatoporoid and chaetetid sponges, rudist bivalves). Throughout the Phanerozoic as well as in modern reefs, sessile solitary calcified heterotrophs (filter- and suspension-feeders) have been more important members of the cryptos than the open surface, framework-constructing community. Heterotrophs were however more common members of the open surface community during the Paleozoic-Mesozoic than the Cenozoic. Yet most open-surface communities have always been dominated by phototrophic organisms: various calcified algae and microbes during the Paleozoic-early Mesozoic and mixotrophic metazoans, primarily scleractinian corals, from the late Triassic/early Jurassic onwards. The established nomenclature describing reefal fabrics must be revised in the light of these observations. The acquisition of photosymbionts by scleractinian corals in the late Triassic/early Jurassic may have been related to the appearance of dinoflagellates at this time, and was favoured by increased predation pressure from the late Mesozoic onwards. In particular, the appearance of many groups of herbivorous and predatory fish in the Eocene promoted coral domination. Photosymbiosis imparted novel metabolic capabilities to scleractinian corals, allowing them and hence reef communities to invade the previously unexploited low-nutrient, shallow marine environment.
41317435|Continental Triassic sequences in Antarctica are among the most continuous and best represented in Gondwana. Triassic fossil plants have been collected sporadically from Antarctica since the beginning of the twentieth century, but our knowledge of the vegetation during this time has dramatically increased during the last three decades. Here we review the fossil record of Triassic plants as representatives of natural groups from sites along the Transantarctic Mountains, using the fossils as evidence for successive vegetational changes through the Triassic, taking into account that these plant communities were living under particular high-latitude (70 or higher) paleoclimatological conditions, including a polar light regime. Even though our knowledge of the Triassic floras of Antarctica is still incomplete, this survey shows that these floras were remarkably diverse. Lycopsids, equisetaleans, ferns, seed ferns, ginkgoaleans, and conifers were major components of the landscape in Antarctica during this time. The diversity of gymnosperms is exceptional, with almost every major clade of seed plants present, despite the high paleolatitude; however, each clade is often represented by only one or a few genera. The occurrence of permineralized peat, along with compression-impression floras, has increased our knowledge of the morphology, reproductive biology, and evolution of many of the plants in these floras. In general, floral changes in Antarctica during the Triassic can be recognized elsewhere in Gondwana, especially in South America, although a strict correlation based on macrofossils is still not possible. Thus, this contribution represents the first attempt to bring together information on Triassic floras from continental Antarctica (excluding the Antarctic Peninsula) within a biostratigraphic framework and thereby to compare these floras with those from lower latitudes.
10.2307/3515104|The nature and distribution of trace-fossil and microbenthic assemblages in Tethyan hemipelagic carbonates and marls of the Podzamcze Formation (Bajocian, Pieniny Klippen Belt) are studied. These analyses allow the identification of (1) recurring Planolites-Chondrites, Planolites-Chondrites-Zoophycos/Teichichnus and Chondrites ichno-assemblages, and (2) poor microbenthic assemblages dominated by agglutinated foraminifers and rich microbenthic assemblages dominated by diversified calcareous foraminifers as well as ostracods. A cross correlation of trace-fossil and microbenthic assemblages with the lithology and petrography of their host sediments suggests the presence of three different paleo-oxygen levels ranging from strongly dysaerobic, moderately dysaerobic to slightly dysaerobic (or aerobic). The stratigraphic distribution of these paleoecological and paleoenvironmental indicators points to the prevalence of strongly dysaerobic and temporarily stagnant bottom waters, under which carbonates accumulated, interrupted by short periods of improved benthic oxygenation related to the deposition of turbiditic silty marls. The origin and persistence of low oxygen levels during deposition of the Podzamcze Formation is attributed to the combination of (1) a silled basin with restricted water circulation, and (2) a density-stratified water column associated with warm and humid climatic conditions.
10.2307/3515578|Annual-oxygen isotope profiles from two live-collected specimens of Chione cortezi Carpenter were analyzed in conjunction with daily growth-increment width profiles and high-resolution temperature records from the same site in the northern Gulf of California. The daily growth-increment profiles serve to date the deposition of the <sup>18</sup>O samples. Then the <sup>18</sup>O values were compared with high-resolution temperature records from the same site. Shell deposition began in late March or early April and ended in late November or early December. <sup>18</sup>O-derived estimates of the maximum and minimum temperature thresholds of growth agree well with those obtained from the dated increment width profile. Shell deposition in these two specimens of C cortezi from the northern Gulf began when temperature warmed above  17 C and slowed or halted when temperature rose above  13 C. The temporal resolution of stable isotope samples varies throughout the year. Samples with the coarsest resolution (>3 weeks) were taken from parts of the shell deposited near the minimum and maximum temperature thresholds of growth. Higher resolution samples have intermediate <sup>18</sup>O values and most represent less than five days of growth. Calculated temperatures from the dated oxygen-isotope samples are similar to observed temperatures. Differences reflect the effects of daily temperature variation, tidal emergence, and enrichment in <sup>18</sup>O of the water in which the clams grew. Stable oxygen-isotope samples used in conjunction with increment-width profiles can provide paleoenvironmental information at sub-weekly to submonthly resolution.
40865491|The early Toarcian (Early Jurassic) global marine mass extinction is usually related to the development of organic-rich sediments preserved as black shales and interpreted as a global oceanic anoxic eventthe Toarcian Oceanic Anoxic Event (T-OAE). In the Betic Cordillera, southern Spain, the deep-marine Fuente de la Vidriera section contains the T-OAE as recorded at the westernmost part of the European Tethys. Ichnological analysis of the section indicates a relatively abundant and moderately diverse trace-fossil assemblage composed of Alcyonidiopsis isp., Chondrites isp., Nereites isp., Palaeophycus hebern, Planolites isp., Teichichnus isp., Thalassinoides isp., and Trichichnus linearis. A welldeveloped endobenthic multi-tiered community is characterized by an upper tier represented by homogenized sedimentindividual burrows difficult to discern, a middle tier with a relatively diverse trace-fossil assemblage of mainly vagile deposit feeders, and a lower tier with activities of semisessile deposit feeders. The ichnoassemblage indicates oxic or slightly dysoxic bottom waters that were relatively favorable for benthic organisms. The absence of anoxia is confirmed by previously published geochemical and isotopie data. The T-OAE did not induce extreme conditions for macrobenthic organisms inhabiting the seafloor in this area of the westernmost Tethys. Local factors probably limited the influence of the anoxic event in bottom waters but may have induced oxygen deficiency in upper water masses, producing unfavorable living conditions for pelagic biota and, consequently, a sudden decrease in ammonite abundance.
10.2307/3515188|Berriasian-Maastrichtian dinosaur remains from South Mongolia (Gobi desert) are characterized by both excellent external appearance and good interior, textural and chemical preservation. Bone remains are carbonate-phosphate in composition with the texture of the Haversian canals preserved. Such preservation resulted from dinosaur burial in subaridic or aridic conditions as a result of mudflow action. All dinosaur remains are enriched in some volatile and trace elements (F, S, REE, Y, Sr, U, etc.), but, at the same time, are chemically heterogeneous. Considerable anisotropy is noted in trace element distribution between bones, egg-shell and coprolite. The bones and coprolite have similar carbonate-phosphate composition, but differ in trace element composition, with Y and HREE selectively accumulated in the bones. Different skeletal parts (vertebrae, extremities, ribs, skull, pelvis) are also heterogeneous with the maximum of trace element accumulation in the vertebrae. Epigenesis and sedimentation are not responsible for chemical heterogeneity of the dinosaur remains from Mongolia. Their observed composition formed no later than earliest diagenesis, that is, enrichment in trace elements can be attributed to vital processes and the earliest stage of diagenesis when original organic matter was still present in faunal remains. However, the considerable anisotropy in the distribution of some elements between different parts of the dinosaur skeleton cannot be explained completely by the processes of the earliest stage of diagenesis. Accordingly, it is assumed that dinosaur remains preserve some aspects of vital effects and original biochemistry of dinosaur bone tissues. Consistent changes in bone composition are observed during the course of the Late Cretaceous. Maastrichtian remains are characterized by maximum contents of fluorine and some trace elements. These data may be taken to indicate significant environmental changes in South Mongolia during the Late Cretaceous, especially in the Maastrichtian.
27670511|This study seeks to test appropriate sampling and statistical regimes for comparing biofacies compositions through the use of several statistical methods developed for analyzing community structure. Bulk sampled data from the Ambocoelia-chonetid biofacies within the Middle Devonian Hamilton Group of New York are used as a test data set. Samples were collected from a single fourth-order regression within this dysoxic facies across a paleoenvironmental basinal gradient. Within locality, lateral replicates and subsampling are used to gauge the degree of faunal patchiness at outcrop scale and to assess the impact of patchiness within this biofacies on the effectiveness of statistical methods for detecting biofacies gradient boundaries. This study demonstrates that a sampling effort that accounts for within-outcrop patchiness (scale of 515 m) is adequate to test for differences in faunal composition in this biofacies across the sampled basinal gradient. Furthermore, our results show that this biofacies exhibits a gradient in within-locality patchiness, which increases as the assemblage is sampled more proximal to the sediment source. Tests of faunal patchiness and geographic differences in biofacies composition obtained with nonmetric multidimensional scaling, analysis of similarities (ANOSIM), and multinomial models using maximum likelihood and information theory (MNM/AIC) produced similar results. MNM/AIC is recommended as a compliment to ANOSIM and ordination techniques for analyzing bulk sample data because MNM/AIC allows for comparison of competing hypotheses about population distributions based on the relative likelihood of each hypothesis and the information required to construct each hypothesis. ANOSIM alone can only determine the significance of a particular clustering against a null hypothesis of no structure and not relative to alternative structures.
3515657|Rhynchonelliform brachiopods were diverse and often dominant benthos of tropical seas in the Paleozoic. In contrast, they are believed to be rare in open habitats of modern oceans, especially at low latitudes. This study documents numerous occurrences of rhynchonelliform brachiopods on a modern tropical shelf particularly in areas influenced by upwelling. Extensive sampling of the outer shelf and coastal bays of the Southeast Brazilian Bight revealed dense populations of terebratulid brachiopods (<latex>$>10^3$</latex> individuals / m<sup>2</sup> of seafloor) between 24 and 26S. On the outer shelf brachiopods are more abundant than bivalves and gastropods combined. However, brachiopod diversity is low: only four species belonging to the genera Bouchardia, Terebratulina, Argyrotheca, and Platidia were identified among over 16000 examined specimens. Brachiopods occur preferentially on carbonate bottoms and include two substrate-related associations: Bouchardia (40-70% CaCO<sub>3</sub> weight content) and Terebratulina-Argyrotheca (70-95% CaCO<sub>3</sub>). All four species display a broad bathymetric range that contrasts with a narrow depth tolerance postulated for many Paleozoic rhynchonelliforms. The most abundant populations occur in the depth range between 100 and 200 m, and coincide with zones of shelf-break upwelling, where relatively colder and nutrient-rich water masses of the South Atlantic Central Water are brought upward by cyclonic meanders of the South Brazil Current (a western boundary current that flows poleward along the coast of Brazil). This is consistent with previous biological and paleontological studies that suggest upwelling may play a role in sustaining brachiopod-dominated benthic associations. The presence of abundant brachiopods in the open habitats of the tropical shelf of the western South Atlantic contrasts with current understanding of their latitudinal distribution and points to major gaps in our knowledge of their present-day biogeography. The ecological importance of rhynchonelliform brachiopods in modern oceans and their role as producers of biogenic sedimentary particles may be underestimated.
10.2307/3514693|Pediculate, biconvex brachiopods from the Chesterian (Late Mississippian) Chainman Formation of the Confusion Range, West-central Utah, lived with their commissures steeply inclined to the sediment surface. This inference is based on 1) commensal epizoans localized anteriorly on both valves, 2) abrasion equally well developed on the posterior of both valves, 3) preservation of specimens attached to skeletal clasts, and 4) flume experiments that reveal the advantages of the erect orientation for lateral inhalant flow between the valves. Experiments show that concavo-convex brachiopods (Linoproductus, Inflatia) are hydrodynamically most stable in their reclining life orientation. Winged taxa (Punctospirifer) and non-winged taxa (Anthracospirifer, Reticulariina) with broad interareas are next in order of stability in their life orientation. Brachiopods with a small interarea (Schizophoria) or no interarea (Rhipidomella) show moderate to very low stability, respectively. Brachiopods with curved hinge lines (Composita, Cleiothyridina, Eumetria, Hustedia) also show low stability in life orientation. Taphonomic data are consistent with these results. Concavo-convex and bioconvex, winged shells, as well as non-winged forms with broad interareas, were most often found anterior-posteriorly crushed by sediment compaction, indicating burial in life orientation. Forms with small interareas and with curved hingelines are often dorsoventrally flattened or laterally compressed, indicating reorientation by currents before burial and sediment compaction. This Chainman brachiopod fauna experienced moderate currents, competent to destabilize the shells selectively from the array of shapes. Frequencies of preservation of shells in life orientation are expected to vary with the hydrodynamic stability of the shape. This is a potentially reliable indicator of paleocurrent competencies in brachiopod community transitions across the paleoslope or from proximal to distal portions of tempestites.
10.2307/3514705|An assemblage of microstromatolites and intraclastic stromatolitic fragments has been found in early carbonate-replacement black chert from a drill core (356 m) in the 2.3 Ga Transvaal Supergroup, South Africa. Unfragmented microstromatolite forms include columns, bulbous forms, and nodular forms-an assemblage representing nearly all of the basic macrostromatolite growth forms. The Transvaal materials are characterized by two predominant populations of fossilized microorganisms. Unicellular coccoid microfossils are preserved as patchy cell accumulations of up to 2.4  10
3515823|Patchiness affects fine-scale patterns of biological variation because compositional differences among localities depend on the composition of the patch sampled for paleoecological analysis. This can inflate compositional differences among localities that otherwise may have similar faunal constituents, which can obscure the true signal of biotic composition. In the type Cincinnatian Series, comparisons of finescale faunal-assemblage patterns acquired through gradient analysis have been difficult to accomplish because of significant deviations in biotic composition. Here, the role of patchiness in creating these deviations is tested by quantifying the amount of lateral variation in composition at a single outcrop of the Kope Formation. Because the lateral expression of individual beds in the Cincinnatian is variable, patchiness is more effectively assessed for bedsets rather than individual beds. Using gradient analysis to evaluate lateral variation at one locality reveals that patchiness is the cause of fine-scale stratigraphic deviations, which are typically produced by the addition or subtraction of just a few taxa. Furthermore, this lateral variability is less for limestone bedsets than for many mudstone bedsets. This supports the idea that limestone beds in the Cincinnatian contain assemblages that are more time-averaged than many, though not all, mud-stone beds. Because fine-scale faunal patterns are dependent on the composition of the sampled patch, replicate sampling is necessary to account for patchiness. Despite the effects of patchiness and time-averaging at scales of one or a few beds, biotic composition patterns acquired through gradient analysis are robust among localities at scales greater than a few beds.
20173006|Although onshore to offshore retreat of brachiopods, in terms of their community-level abundance, took place through the Mesozoic and Cenozoic, this study shows that comparable trends also occurred repeatedly on a short time scale and mainly were driven by variations in sediment and nutrient supply. In the Kssen Formation (Upper Triassic), brachiopods retreated to offshore habitats during nutrient-rich, siliciclastic regimes and expand to onshore habitats during nutrient-poor, carbonate regimes. Epifaunal bivalves occupied onshore and offshore habitats during both siliciclastic and carbonate regimes. Infaunal suspension-feeding bivalves expanded to offshore habitats during nutrient-rich, siliciclastic regimes and retreated from offshore habitats during nutrient-poor, carbonate regimes. Thus, the onshore to offshore retreat of brachiopods and the offshore expansion of infaunal bivalves repeatedly coincided with the switch from a nutrient-poor, carbonate regime to a nutrient-rich, siliciclastic regime. Because brachiopods and epifaunal bivalves were abundant in micrite-rich, soft-bottom habitats, the replacements between infaunal and epifaunal communities cannot be explained by variations in substrate consistency alone. Differences in guild structure between siliciclastic and carbonate regimes and onshore to offshore replacements indicate that distribution of bivalves and brachiopods is related to their differential response to low nutrient supply, turbidity, and, possibly, oxygen levels. Based on actualistic evidence, brachiopods are able to thrive in nutrient-poor conditions due to low metabolic demands and are less tolerant of high-turbidity conditions than bivalves. Epifaunal bivalves that co-occur with brachiopods in nutrient-poor habitats may have been characterized by higher clearance rates in contrast to infaunal bivalves with similar metabolic requirements. Although higher biogenic sediment disturbance or other biotic interactions could play a significant role in the retreat of brachiopods to offshore habitats, this study highlights the importance of varying nutrient supply and turbidity in governing onshore to offshore replacements on short time scales.
10.2307/3515502|The fossil record of the Cretaceous is critical for understanding the evolution of modern tetrapods. Using a measure of relative completeness of the fossil record - the Simple Completeness Metric (SCM) - quality of the fossil record and diversity during the Cretaceous appear to be closely related, suggesting an artifactual component. The SCM calculations also show that knowledge of the fossil record has improved in the last ten years. Recent proposals that modern orders of birds and mammals originated early in the Cretaceous are rendered unlikely by four arguments: (1) the SCM calculations indicate that the fossil record of Cretaceous birds and mammals is relatively good; (2) it is unlikely that all modern orders, independently, would have remained cryptic throughout the Cretaceous; (3) control samples of exquisitely preserved tiny Cretaceous tetrapods lack any specimens of modern groups of birds and mammals; and (4) the suggestion that the undiscovered ancestors of modern groups are to be found in unsampled parts of the Earth is not supported by cladistic evidence.
10.2307/3515017|Iridium anomalies of Late Eocene age are here reported in sequences from northern Italy and Weddell Sea, Antarctic. We have analyzed 270 samples of marly limestones from the Eocene/Oligocene boundary stratotype section at Massignano, Italy, ranging from 35.6 to 34.5 Ma (NP 18 Zone to NP19/20 Zone). We discovered a distinct Ir peak of 156  19 parts per trillion (ppt) in the lower calcareous nannofossil NP19/20 Zone, corresponding to the mid-lower part of foraminiferal P16 Zone, and the top of magnetic Chron 16n2. The age of this Ir anomaly derived from several dated volcanic ashes found in the same section is 35.7  0.4 Ma. A minor Ir anomaly also occurs within Chron 16r (35.55 Ma). Two small Ir anomalies were previously found in the lower part of Chron 13r (34.8 and 34.6 Ma) in the Contessa section near Gubbio (about 80 km west of Massignano), but were not found in equivalent stratigraphic intervals in this section. A total of 410 samples of Late Eocene age analyzed in ODP 689B (Maud Rise, Weddell Sea, Antarctic), also reveal a distinct Ir peak (156  10 ppt). This occurs in sediments of normal remanent magnetization that can be interpreted either as Chron 16n (35.5 Ma), or as Chron 15n (35.0 Ma). This stratigraphic ambiguity results from scarcity of useful microfossil datums in this interval. Moreover, the last occurrence of Isthmolithus recurvus and the first occurrence of Globigerinatheka index, which are the only two datums defining a biostratigraphic zonation for the Late Eocene in ODP 689B, are apparently diachronous with the Massignano stratotype section. The principal Ir anomaly in ODP 689B seems 0.2 Ma, or 0.5 Ma younger than that of the Massignano section, depending on which alternative magnetostratigraphic interpretation is employed. The apparent diachroneity of microfossil datums and a lack of magnetostratigraphic data do not provide adequate stratigraphic resolution for correlation of Ir anomalies in Massignano or ODP 689B sections with those found in several Late Eocene sequences in the equatorial Indian and Pacific, and the Caribbean-Gulf of Mexico region. Nevertheless, multiple Ir anomalies as documented in this work, and differences in chemical composition among Late Eocene north American tektites, microtektites, and crystal-bearing spherules, the latter often associated with an iridium anomaly, suggest a sequence of closely spaced extraterrestrial impacts occurred during a million year period between 35.7 and 34.7 Ma.
3515720|Detailed study of Oxfordian coral-microbialite reefs in the Swiss Jura Mountains has identified major paleoecological variations in space and time, which are attributed to environmental changes. Micro- and macroscale semi-quantitative analyses of microbialite types, micro-encrusters, bioerosion, corals, and other macrofauna composing the reefal facies were performed. Three main trophic structures (dominant nutritional modes) were recognized: phototrophic-dominated, balanced photo-heterotrophic, and heterotrophic-dominated. A phototrophic (light-dependant) fauna dominated reefs growing in pure carbonate and nutrient-poor environments, where sedimentation rate was the main factor controlling reef growth. In mixed siliciclastic-carbonate platform environments, a balanced photo-heterotrophic fauna with periodical shifts to heterotrophic-dominated associations was induced by freshwater and sediment run-off into closed, shallow lagoons. In this case, the main factors controlling reef growth were the distribution and accumulation of terrigenous sediment on the platform and/or associated nutrient availability. The balanced photo-heterotrophic structure found in mixed carbonate-siliciclastic settings produced the most diversified reefs, suggesting that these Oxfordian reefs preferentially thrived in water moderately charged with nutrients (mesotrophic environment). In the case of strong siliciclastic accumulation and/or strong increase in nutrient availability, coral reef diversity dropped drastically and heterotrophs dominated the trophic structure. A model of the evolution of trophic structure in these reefs as a function of the governing environmental factors is proposed. Focusing on the dominant nutritional mode at each step in reef evolution allows a detailed characterization of reefal structure and a better understanding of the processes leading to coral reef settlement, development, and demise.
10.2307/3515147|The effects of waves and tides on the behavior of single and articulated dead shells of Macoma nasuta and Clinocardium sp. were studied in False Bay (San Juan Island, Washington). Most of the bay is subaerially exposed during spring low tides (-0.8 to 2.6 m), whereas waves enter from the Straits of San Juan de Fuca during periods of submersion. These species were the most numerous and conspicuous skeletal elements present on the tidal flats. Transects of natural death assemblages at the surface indicate that shell abundance was significantly greater closer to shore and decreased toward the bay center. The majority of these valves were oriented in the convex-up attitude. To determine the effects of waves and tides, marked shells were placed both in a channel and on a sand bar at low tide and left for 1-2 tidal cycles. Regardless of initial attitude, the majority of shells were later found convex-up; those initially convex-down were reoriented to convex-up position (75%-86%), while convex-up valves remained unchanged (90%-98%). Distance of shell transport depended upon initial orientation and location. Valves within the tidal channel moved <1.0 m while those on the sand bar showed either negligible transport (2.0 m) or significant transport (10-119 m). Subaerially exposed, convex-down shells were transported the greatest distance via flotation on the incoming tide. Shell flotation was not correlated to valve size, handedness, nor species of bivalve tested. Flotation may be an overlooked fair weather transport process and could account for the greater concentration of shells on the landward portions of False Bay sand bars.
10.2307/3515129|About half the Caribbean hermatypic corals died out in the Caribbean during the latest Oligocene through Early Miocene, about 24-16 Ma. The majority of those corals that died out in the Caribbean are extant in the Indo-Pacific, i.e., they suffered geographic restriction, rather than extinction. The coral and coral associate faunas of three Upper Oligocene and three Middle Miocene fossil reefs in western Puerto Rico were compared. Coral genera at these sites suffered 50% regional extinction (extinction or restriction), equivalent to earlier reports of this Caribbean coral extinction/restriction event. Nearly all coral genera tolerant of both turbidity and cool water survived; those tolerant of cool water or turbidity alone survived in much lesser proportions. Corals occurring on both patch reefs and shelf edge reefs survived in much greater proportions than those occurring on only patch reefs or only shelf edge reefs. There are no shelf edge barrier reef complexes documented from the Early or Middle Miocene in the Caribbean; the uppermost Miocene shelf edge reefs of Mona Island are the only known Miocene shelf edge reef deposits in the Caribbean. Coral associates, the endolithic sponges, bivalves, worms, and barnacles that live in coral skeletons, were almost completely unaffected by this event. Likewise, reef and off-reef gastropods, bivalves, and echinoids suffered only insignificant reductions in diversity. Only corals and large benthic foraminifera were strongly affected by the extinction. It is significant that zooxanthellate organisms were the primary victims of this extinction. Miocene endolithic sponge borings are significantly larger than their Oligocene counterparts, suggesting more intense bioerosion on Miocene than Oligocene reefs. Bioerosion is generally correlated with nutrient levels, and the apparently more intense bioerosion of Miocene corals may indicate enhanced nutrient availability on Miocene Caribbean reefs. Extensive Miocene phosphorites throughout the Caribbean indicate enhanced upwelling in the region during the time of the coral extinction/restriction. Biogeographic evidence from corals, coral associates, and molluscs corroborates this pattern, along with the evidence from bioerosion levels. Enhanced upwelling could account for the extinction/restriction by generally increasing nutrient levels and cooling Caribbean costal surface waters, thus restricting reef development to on-shelf patch reefs, where corals would be subject to more intense sedimentation. Modern reefs of the Eastern Pacific may provide a modern analogue to Miocene Caribbean reefs. This regional extinction was important in dividing a previously cosmopolitan reef fauna into several modern provincial faunas. This biogeographic separation was completed in the mid-Pliocene with the rise of the isthmus of Panama. Coral associates, which universally survived the Oligocene-Miocene event, also have much more cosmopolitan distributions than do corals.
10.2307/3514872|Naticid gastropod predation is generally stereotyped or fixed regardless of conditions. Naticid predation on corbulid bivalves is said to be anomalous: characterized by unstereotyped behavior, low success, and predation frequencies lower than those predicted by cost-benefit analysis. Anomalous predation is an important phenomenon because it may provide insight into the evolution of naticid behavior or prey functional morphology, and because stereotypy is important methodologically. Previous authors have hypothesized that predation on corbulids is anomalous because naticid predation is inhibited by the presence of conchiolin layers within corbulid valves. Other explanations of anomalous predation are needed, however, because the conchiolin layer hypothesis cannot explain instances of stereotyped predation in corbulids or anomalous predation in other molluscan prey. This study documents predation on Neogene corbulids of the Dominican Republic and Florida, and formulates alternative explanations of anomalous predation. Predation on most corbulid species was stereotyped or selective with respect to prey-size, borehole-site (location on valve surface), and valve (left or right). In addition, differences in the prevalence of bored individuals, incompletely bored valves, and multiply bored valves were significant among species, paleoenvironments, regions, and over time. Some instances of anomalous predation probably reflect small sample size, and have no evolutionary implications. Other instances of anomalous predation in both corbulids and other prey indicate that variable shell thickness may be a morphologic defense against predation. Finally, environmental conditions seem to affect drilling frequencies and must be considered when interpreting such data.
10.2307/3515361|Terminal Proterozoic to lower Cambrian siliciclastic sequences in North Wales, Newfoundland, and Finnmark, Norway have been examined for evidence of changes in metazoan activity, based on ichnological data. Information was collected on infaunal tiering, age, evolutionary complexity, ichnofabric, and taphonomy. Averaged over lower Cambrian time, facies had little effect on size and faunal density of trace-making organisms. A landward shift in bioturbation intensity apparently occurred as larger organisms colonized firm muddy substrates on the inner shelf through time. In the earliest stage of the lower Cambrian, the majority of ichnodiversity relates to surface-feeding trace fossils. Not until the Tommotian is evidence for pervasive detritus feeding common. These changes were driven by evolutionary adaptation and external environmental forces. In addition, the activity of infaunal metazoans altered the intra-sediment environment in a manner that increased habitability and primary productivity in a way that encouraged further exploitation of sedimentary nutrients.
25835650|Black shales deposited in epeiric seas preserve dynamic, bottom-water oxygen conditions as inferred from high-resolution trace- and body-fossil data. Nearly all paleoproxies are imperfect; however, this study utilizes the strength of paleobiological proxies to capture variability in bottom-water oxygen levels through aerobic and anaerobic, as well as dysaerobic (reduced but non-zero oxygen) conditions. Trace- and body-fossil data were collected at high resolution from twelve localities through central and western New York State, United States, exposing Devonian black shales. The combination of relative amount of bioturbation, estimated as ichnofabric index (ii), maximum burrow diameter measurements, and body-fossil species diversity allows relative bottom-water oxygen levels to be interpreted on a millimeter scale. Overall, trace-fossil size and diversity through the dysaerobic zone are much reduced compared with those described from younger strata. The decreased depth of bioturbation compared with younger strata, and resulting reduced overprinting of the sedimentological record by deep burrowing infauna, provide the opportunity for records of high frequency fluctuations in relative oxygen levels to be preserved. The biological signal preserved in these units reveals that bottom-water oxygen levels fluctuated considerably within a narrow stratigraphic range (on a centimeter scale) and that the dysaerobic zone is not temporally stable.
10.2307/3514770|The Cambrian-Ordovician Potsdam Sandstone, Theresa Formation, and Canadian correlatives in the St. Lawrence Lowlands preserve tide-dominated facies during the basal Cambrian transgression. Low intertidal sand flats in the upper Potsdam contain a Skolithos Ichnofacies dominated by Diplocraterion parallelum in clean, herringbone cross-bedded sandstones indicative of high tidal current energy. Wind-wave-driven longshore and tidal currents along a macrotidal coastline were funneled northeast-southwest by Precambrian topographic relief of up to 65 m. This relief is now expressed as the Thousand Islands of New York and Canada. The conformably overlying Theresa Formation preserves a shoaling-upward sequence of mixed clastic-carbonate facies. Shallow subtidal and peritidal facies contain a mixed Skolithos-Cruziana Ichnofacies in sharply alternating lithofacies consisting of gray, intensely bioturbated, poorly sorted calcareous sandstone, and meter-thick, white cross-bedded sandstone. The parallelism between ichnofacies and lithofacies indicates that environmental energy level and persistence rather than water depth controlled trace fossil distribution. Bioturbated sandstones contain a Cruziana Ichnofacies of abundant deposit feeders including: Fustiglyphus?, Gyrochorte?, Neonereites uniserialis?, Phycodes flabellum, Planolites beverlyensis, Rosselia socialis, and Teichichnus. Suspension feeders are represented by D. habichi, D. parallelum, Skolithos, Monocraterion, and possibly Palaeophycus tubularis. Scavenging or deposit-feeding arthropods are represented by rare Cruziana? furrows. Cross-bedded sandstones contain a Skolithos Ichnofacies of shallow Skolithos and Monocraterion burrows, and an undescribed large epistratal eurypterid(?) trail. Protrusive D. parallelum in high-energy intertidal Potsdam facies show an average burrowing depth of -12.2 cm that agrees with interpretations of tiering structure for suspension feeders in the Early Paleozoic. Frequency analysis of bioturbation units, thickness intervals defined by ichnofabric index, shows a -3 to -5 cm depth of burrowing for deposit feeders in the Cruziana Ichnofacies. It is the thickness of episodically deposited sedimentation units, in relation to endobenthic burrowing depth, rather than sedimentation rate, that determines trace-fossil preservation potential and the resulting ichnofabric. This is especially important for many shallowly burrowed Early Paleozoic facies, but becomes less important after the advent of deeper burrowers later in the Paleozoic.
40606435|A polycotylid plesiosaur (Dolichorhynchops sp.), recently discovered in the Upper Cretaceous (Cenomanian-Turonian) Tropic Shale in Glen Canyon National Recreation Area, southern Utah, is associated with 289 gastroliths. This specimen is significant due to the general lack of gastroliths associated with most short-necked plesiosaur skeletons. The skeleton (MNA V10046) was excavated from a stratigraphic interval of marine shale that does not contain coarser-grained material. The stones were generally concentrated in one area of the skeleton, with the majority situated near the back of the skull. The stones are mainly composed of dark grey chert, are smooth and well rounded, and have varying degrees of polish. The majority of the stones are spherical in shape and are likely fluvial in origin. The gastroliths from this animal are similar in shape and number to those documented from elasmosaurid plesiosaurs. The gastroliths from MNA V10046, however, are much smaller and weigh considerably less than most elasmosaurid stomach stones. Given the lack of comparative material from other short-necked plesiosaurs, the size and mass differences are attributed to differences in function of gastroliths between long-and short-necked plesiosaurs.
10.2307/3514475|The analysis of diatoms from two lake-sediment cores from southwestern Tasmania that span the Pleistocene-Holocene boundary provides insight about paleolimnological and paleoclimatic change in this region. Both Lake Vera (550 m elevation), in west-central Tasmania, and Eagle Tarn (1,033 m elevation), in south-central Tasmania, have lacustrine records that begin about 12,000 years ago. Despite significant differences in location, elevation, and geologic terrane, both lakes have had similar, as well as synchronous, limnological histories. Each appears to have been larger and more alkaline 12,000 years ago than at present, and both became shallower through time. Fossil diatom assemblages about 11,500 years old indicate shallow-water environments that fluctuated in pH between acidic and alkaline, and between dilute and possibly slightly saline hydrochemical conditions (<100-2,000 mg/l dissolved solids), probably under the influence of seasonal moisture stress. Beginning 11,500 years ago, limnological conditions of shallow, dilute water of neutral pH prevailed, indicating reduction of moisture stress. A subsequent transition to diatom assemblages indicative of acidic and dystrophic (brown, nutrient-poor water) conditions about 10,000 years ago parallels the establishment of rain-forest vegetation and essentially modern climatic conditions with excess precipitation over evaporation. The synchroneity and similar character of the paleolimnological changes at these separate and distinctive sites suggests a regional paleoclimatic cause rather than local environmental effects. Latest Pleistocene climates were apparently more continental and drier than Holocene climates in southwestern Tasmania.
3515837|The process of time-averaging can have deleterious effects on the recognition of morphological variability in the fossil record. To explore this issue, a geometric morphometric study was conducted on a life and death assemblage of the terebratulide brachiopod Terebratalia transversa The results from several geometric morphometric techniques (including Procrustes analysis and thin-plate spline) confirm a high degree of morphological variability with little change in mean shape between the living and sub-fossil assemblages. Additionally, there is no evidence of distinct morphogroups in either assemblage, as postulated for the species in previous studies. These trends persist at all depths and size classes. The similar range of morphological variability at each site suggests a common causal factor such as a similar array of microenvironments available at all depths. One implication of this consistency in morphological variability between the living and sub-fossil assemblages is that the variability of a fossil assemblage of this species could be used to estimate single-generation variability during the time-averaged interval. Furthermore, the potential for recognizing the full range of shape variability in the sub-fossil record of a highly variable species is encouraging for the pursuit of species recognition in the fossil record. Very good fidelity of the sub-fossil assemblage with respect to morphological variability is documented here for the first time in brachiopods, and agrees well with the findings of similar studies of other taxa.
10.2307/3515517|Coral samples recovered from the Falmouth Formation in north Jamaica, an emergent Pleistocene (Sangamonian) fringing reef complex, contain a wide range of boring morphologies belonging to the ichnogenera Entobia (7 (+1?) ichnospecies), Gastrochaenolites (2 ichnospecies), Maeandropolydora and Trypanites. Sampling from four distinct shallow-water reef biofacies permitted quantification of spatial variations in boring community composition and degree of substrate infestation. Coral samples from back-reef/lagoon facies (mostly coral rubble) are characterized by diverse assemblages of borers, dominated by both sponge and "worm" borings, but with bivalve borings locally important. By contrast, shallow fore-reef facies are dominated by sponge borings, with "worm" borings locally important and bivalve borings rare or absent. Highest rates of substrate infestation (expressed as a % of framework removed by borers) occur within lagoon/back-reef samples. Although facies constraints (especially the absence of deeper water facies) are likely to have exerted an influence on these data, broadly similar borer assemblages have been reported from both modern and other Cenozoic reef systems. The data provide a further link in what is, at present, the very poorly documented history of bioerosion in fossil reef systems.
20172992|Crinoids reached their highest generic richness and overall abundance during the Mississippian, which thus has been dubbed the Age of Crinoids. The causes are hypothesized to be from the coincidence of two factors. First, in the wake of the Late Devonian mass-extinction event, the five major crinoid groups recovered and radiated in the Early Mississippian. The advanced cladids continued to radiate from their origin in the Early Devonian and reached a peak in the Middle Mississippian (Visean) that was not exceeded again until the Middle Pennsylvanian (Moscovian). Second, the Late Devonian mass-extinction event destroyed the extensive coral-stromatoporoid platform-edge reefs that had restricted circulation on carbonate platforms and limited the abundance of crinoids, which are stenohaline. The resulting carbonate ramps during the Mississippian had improved circulation, producing stenohaline conditions that resulted in an abundance peak for crinoids, recorded by widespread regional encrinites on multiple continents. This increased habitat space was ideal for camerate crinoids and resulted in a new radiation of camerate crinoids. The simultaneous radiation of pinnulate cladids and the short resurgence of camerates were responsible for the biodiversity spike in the Mississippian. The Age of Crinoids ended with a major drop in sea level at the end of the Mississippian as massive glaciers formed on Gondwana and epicontinental seas were drained.
10.2307/3515235|Late Cretaceous trace fossils from the Two Medicine Formation of Montana are interpreted as herbivorous dinosaur feces reworked by scarabaeine dung beetles. These irregular blocks of comminuted plant material occur in isolated patches in fluvial flood plain sediments near dinosaur bone beds and nesting grounds. Numerous burrows in and around the specimens indicate significant invertebrate activity which suggests intense competition for a rich food resource. Some of the burrows are backfilled with organic matter that had been translocated from the organic mass (dung pat) into the adjacent sediment. Paracoprid dung beetles are the only extant organisms known to make similar caches. These unique ichnofossils provide evidence for commensal interactions between dung beetles, herbivorous dinosaurs, and conifers. This find also reveals a pathway through which fecal resources were recycled and suggests that scarabs evolved coprophagy through association with dinosaurs.
3515699|A deep-tier, bow-form burrow with a long apertural neck, and several different types of infill is described from Upper Jurassic shelfal carbonates of Saudi Arabia, Miocene pelagic packstones and wackestones of Malta, and Lower Cretaceous shoreface sands and mudrocks of southern England. The two most commonly observed types of infill are a coarse-grained infill, referred to as Glyphichnus-mode (formed by sediment entering the burrow following breakage of the apertural neck), and a laminated, muddy infill, referred to as Cylindrichnus-mode, which is considered to represent passive, draught filling through a complete burrow. The type of infill and aspects of preservation show that these burrows can be used to assess the style of sedimentation, particularly steady aggradation versus periodic erosion. At present the bow-form burrow is not assigned to a specific ichnotaxon.
10.2307/3514881|Eggshells of ring-billed gulls buried by Mount St. Helens ash at an eastern Washington colony were excavated one and seven years following the ashfall. These were compared to unburied eggshells using scanning electron microscopy, polarized light microscopy, electron probe micro-analysis, and cathodoluminescence microscopy. Physical dissolution of the eggshell had already begun during the first year of burial. After seven years most features of the egg-shell had been lost, leaving a honeycombed mass. Physical dissolution was attributable to weak acids leaching through the ash. Alteration of the mineralogical composition did not occur. Conditions at the colony did not favor long-term fossilization of the ash-buried eggshells.
27670583|Shallow-water Sporolithon rhodoliths from New Zealand are described here on the basis of shape, size, composition, internal structure, and major taphonomic attributes, with the aim of discussing their significance in the framework of current ecological and paleo-ecological models of rhodolith formation and accumulation. The very shallow water environment (<2 m) of the Whangaparaoa Peninsula undergoes daily tidal currents and seasonal storm conditions. These factors, along with the availability of cobbles and pebbles as suitable substrate, lead to the accumulation of spherical, fruticose, monospecific, nucleated, and internally compact rhodoliths. The observed taphonomic features include apical abrasion, intercalary growth of protuberances after mechanical breakage, and multiple growth stages with distinctive bioerosion (by bivalves, annelids, and cyanobacteria), which are identified by internal abrasion surfaces and dark layers. A review of the pattern of global distribution of the coralline genera comprising very shallow-water rhodoliths (<2 m) identifies five major categories: (A) unattached protuberances, commonly monospecific, made up of one or more genera (Phymatolithon, Lithothamnion, Lithophyllum) in cool to cold waters at middle to high latitudes; (B) rhodoliths composed of dominant Hydrolithon and other mastophoroids (Neogoniolithon or Spongites) with subordinate Lithophyllum in the tropics; (C) unattached protuberances of Neogoniolithon associated with seagrass meadows, from middle latitudes, in warm to warm-temperate waters; (D) mainly fruticose, monospecific, rhodoliths composed of Mesophyllum, Lithothamnion, Hydrolithon, and Neogoniolithon under tidal currents in cool waters in the Southern Hemisphere; and (E) Sporolithon rhodoliths of cool waters in the Southern Hemisphere, which suggest an austral polar emergence of the genus.
27670380|Dasycladalean green algae show marked fluctuation in genus and species biodiversity from the Carboniferous to the Pliocene. Diversity lows (<10 species) alternate with peaks (>70 species) over periods of 2050 Myr. Relatively few taxa are recorded for the earliest Carboniferous, Early Triassic, Early to Mid-Jurassic, Late Cretaceous, and Pliocene. Diversity maxima occur in the Permian, Early Cretaceous, and Paleocene. With the exception of the Late Cretaceous, biodiversity broadly tracked temperature from the Carboniferous to the Pliocene. Diversity minima generally correspond with low sea level, and diversity maxima with periods of intermediate sea level. Dasycladaleans were most diverse when their main habitatswarm shallow seaswere most extensive. This observation does not preclude the influence of additional important factors on dasycladalean evolutionary history, but it suggests a strong link between longterm patterns of dasycladalean diversity and global fluctuations in temperature and sea level.
27670449|Quarry walls in Pleistocene marginal-marine coarse-grained deposits adjacent to Willapa Bay, Washington, expose a contact from which unusual sedimentary structures originate. These structures have two distinct occurrences: (1) vertical-to-subvertical columns where laminae and bedding deflect downward, and (2) normally graded beds with symmetric or asymmetric U-shaped structures with flared limbs. The scale, morphology, and distribution of the features suggest these are not physical sedimentary structures. Rather, they are more akin to biogenic sedimentary structures generated by the predatory action of marine animals on deep-burrowing bivalves. Several animals are known to forage sediment: elasmobranch fishes, fish, crabs, sea stars, sea otters, whales, and walruses. In particular, walruses generate distinctive excavations on the sea floor as they root for prey with their snouts and emit a jet of water that liquefies the bottom sediments where a bivalve has burrowed. The trace fossils reported likely represent the first examples of walrus feeding from the geologic record. Documentation in recent years of sea-floor furrows and pits on the Bering Shelf and Chukchi Sea produced by the Pacific Walrus (Odobenus rosmarus Linnaeus) provides modern analogues for the ancient trace fossils described from Willapa Bay. We present three significant implications from this comparison: (1) The method of hydraulic jetting employed by walruses for extraction of their prey leaves a distinctive trace fossil that can be used to identify the presence and activities of foraging walruses. (2) These predation structures are temporally significant in that they provide a minimum time of exposure and corresponding rate of accretion for the ancient estuary inlet. (3) Feeding excavations in paleo-Willapa Bay, Washington, were produced by walrus herds that wandered from the northern Pacific ice front during the Pleistocene after becoming barricaded from their present habitat in the Bering Shelf and Chukchi Sea.
10.2307/3515527|Shells were broken experimentally by compressive and compactional loading to determine the best predictors of shell strength among a number of morphologic (length, width, height, weight, thickness) and taphonomic (presence of a drillhole, exposure to seawater, point contacts of shells) features. Compressive strength of fresh (Mercenaria mercenaria, Mytilus edulis) and beach-collected (Anadara ovalis) shells was measured by placing a single valve flat on a surface and compressing it. Compactional strength of beachcollected Mulinia lateralis shells was measured by placing isolated valves and shell layers in fine sand and compacting the sand and shell mixture. The most effective predictor of compressive shell strength of fresh shells was thickness; it was significant for all three species and it easily can be interpreted as an obvious defense against a shell-crushing predator. Size was comparatively less important. The presence of a drillhole reduced shell strength significantly, and strong correlations of weight and shell strength among beach collected Anadara shells may reflect different states of degradation of the original amounts of organic matrix. Supporting this conclusion is the observation that immersion in seawater for seven weeks significantly decreased shell strength of organic-rich shells (Mytilus), but did not affect shell strength of organicpoor shells (Mercenaria). Fracture patterns varied considerably between and within taxa. The breakage pattern of Anadara and Mercenaria shells generally consisted of a set of fractures radiating from the point of loading to the shell margin, including even the thick dorsal margin. The breakage pattern in Mytilus usually consisted of one fracture only, which did not extend from the point of loading but whose path was highly unpredictable. In compaction experiments with beach-collected Mulinia lateralis, the most important factor determining whether or how a shell would break was the contact between shells. Isolated shells, both drilled and undrilled, did not break. Among drilled valves in simulated shell beds, only 26 percent of the fragments > 2 mm fractured through the drillhole.
10.2307/3514473|The Western Interior Sea was the site of prolonged and wide-spread pelagic carbonate deposition only during the Greenhorn and Niobrara depositional cycles. Relatively deep water, nearly featureless depositional topography, and generally poor benthic circulation prevailed during the accumulation of carbonate-rich muds that today delineate the transgressive maxima of these cycles within the Upper Cretaceous section. Principal carbonate facies include 1) widespread zones of lenses and lensing beds of skeletal grainstones composed chiefly of inoceramid bivalve debris and planktonic foraminiferal tests, and 2) evenly bedded micritic or microsparitic packstones, wacke-stones, and mudstones that are true chalks in the central Great Plains where the rocks are most pure and least altered by diagenesis. Sparry skeletal grainstones reflect offshore sea-floor winnowing of bottom muds in migrating high-energy belts of current and wave action, during storms or during episodes of general shallowing. Disarticulated and broken bivalves, mostly inoceramids and oysters, attest instability of these sandy and gravelly substrates, in which burrows are the only common in situ fossils. Chalky strata of the central plains range from laminated chalky shales, which grade westward to marly and calcareous shales, to chalky limestones, which grade westward into brittle limestones and marlstones, some beds of which can be traced more than 1,000 km. The laminated shales represent watery substrates in which few infaunal traces remain. In contrast, chalky and brittle limestones were initially oozy and contain abundant traces of a mobile infauna. In these limestones, earliest-formed deposit-feeder burrows are preserved as mottling; discrete, later-formed burrows reflect substrates that were more stable. The firmest of these carbonate-rich muds sustained open dwelling burrows, but true hardgrounds have been recognized only in southwestern New Mexico. Carbonate mud substrates, representing low-energy bottom conditions, supported low-diversity epifaunas dominated by inoceramids, which hosted epizoic oysters, cirripeds, and locally abundant serpulids and bryozoans. Nearly ubiquitous occurrence of inoceramid bivalves indicates that benthic waters were never anoxic for extended periods of time.
10.2307/3515618|Diplocraterion parallelum with exclusively protrusive spreite are documented at particular horizons in fine-grained Lower Kimmeridgian (Upper Jurassic) deposits from the Prebetic Zone (Betic Cordillera, southern Spain). The occurrence of D. parallelum and the interpreted change from a Cruziana ichnofacies to a mixed Skolithos-Cruziana assemblage is related to increasing energy and more proximal and unstable substrates resulting from relative sea-level falls. These relative sea-level changes agree with a proposed Type-II sequence boundary inferred from sequence stratigraphic analysis. Bio-chronostratigraphic control shows the persistent occurrence of Diplocraterion close to the Platynota/Hypselocyclum Zone boundary (Lower Kimmeridgian); that is, these occurrences correlate between sections irrespective of slight deviations in the sedimentary package. Thus, Diplocraterion occurrence is proposed as a reference level for stratigraphy within epicontinental deposits of the northern margin of the westernmost Tethys. This work supports the usefulness of the trace fossil approach in basin analysis, either in sequence stratigraphic studies of deposits characterized by correlative conformities and/or stratigraphic correlation in basins wherein guide fossils are scarce.
3515693|The origin of meter-scale cyclicity in the type Cincinnatian Series has long been debated. Some models hypothesize that changes in water depth driven by sea-level fluctuations were responsible for producing meter-scale alternations of shalerich and limestone-rich intervals. Other models link meterscale cyclicity to changes in storm intensity and frequency, with no change in water depth. Previous interpretations have relied upon lithological variations, which have proven to be ambiguous with respect to meter-scale cyclicity Here, the role of water depth in producing meter-scale lithologic patterns is assessed using gradient analysis of high-resolution fossil abundance data from the Kope and lower Fairview Formations. Studies have demonstrated that the distribution of biota in this interval is controlled by environmental variables correlated to water depth. Therefore, a direct comparison of stratigraphic variations in faunal composition to meter-scale lithologic alternations is an appropriate test of the influence of water depth on meter-scale cyclicity. In the present analyses, ordination scores generated from faunal abundance data are grouped into bins that correspond to the upper proximal and lower distal parts of each meter-scale cycle, using three different binning protocols. For each cycle, ordination scores from the lower bin are compared to those from the upper bin; consistent differences between the two would suggest a water depth control on meterscale biotic patterns, and, thus, cyclicity. However, results indicate no consistent correspondence of faunal patterns to meter-scale lithologic patterns, suggesting that water depth does not play a significant role in the formation of meterscale cycles. While the different binning protocols did affect analytical outcomes in various ways, the lack of a consistent difference between upper and lower bins within each cycle was robust to all protocols. A model invoking oscillations of storm intensity and frequency appears to provide the most parsimonious explanation for the origin of Cincinnatian meter-scale cyclicity.
40606489|Bryozoa exhibit some broad phylogenetic patterns in skeletal carbonate mineralogy that have previously been elucidated based on material from Australasia, Europe, North America, South Africa, and Antarctica. A new dataset from 19 locations in the Patagonian fiord region of Chile adds 93 specimens and 23 species to the mineralogical information on this highly variable phylum, as well as providing a comparison with generalizations made to date. Most species, genera, and families from Chile are of similar mineralogy to their worldwide counterparts, but a few are surprising. Chilean Membranipora isabellana and Diastopora sp. are both 100% aragonite despite belonging to taxa that are dominantly calcitic. Adeonella patagnica and Adeonella sp. are the only species exhibiting bimineral skeletons, from 6 to 100% calcite, a much greater range than was previously known for this genus and the Adeonellidae. Skeletal mineralogy has been tested in only 95 of the 323 families in the Bryozoa. We are, nevertheless, able to make some generalizations. For example, stenolaemates are almost always low-Mg calcite, and ascophoran cheilostomes are the most variable and mineralogically complex group. The capacity to generalize about bryozoan mineralogy is necessary in the face of increasing pressure on biomineralization from ocean acidification.
10.2307/3515010|Stalks of isocrinid crinoids are differentiated into cirri-bearing columnals (nodals) and columnals lacking cirri (internodals). This skeletal differentiation allowed us to test whether stalk fragmentation is random or whether it occurs preferentially at a specific articulation. Our analyses indicate that the patterns of fragmentation in multicolumnal segments of extant isocrinids collected by submersible, by dredging, and in sediment samples, as well as those found as fossils, are nonrandom. The preferred plane of fragmentation corresponds to the synostosis, the articulation between a nodal and the internodal distal to it. In isocrinids this articulation has a characteristic morphology and is the site of autotomy. Although stalk shedding by autotomy may contribute to the observed patterns, decay experiments on isocrinid stalks, both in situ and in the lab, suggest that post-mortem disarticulation also results in nonrandom fragmentation. Thus both processes, autotomy and post-mortem decay, contribute to the observed pattern of fragmentation. Underlying both processes is the organization of soft tissues at synostoses.
3515672|Sandstones from the Black Island member of the Winnipeg Formation (Ordovician) contain a variety of early diagenetic iron sulfide morphologies, including elongate concretions of variable length. Examination of sandstone samples with X-radiography reveals that these concretions, now consisting of pyrite, are associated with burrows. Detailed textural examination of the pyrite shows an anomalously loose packing of sand grains within these concretions, and also suggests that iron sulfide nucleation commenced at multiple sites in what must have been a stiff matrix. Compositional data acquired by electron microprobe indicate that the iron sulfides did not replace fecal matter left behind by the burrower. Sulfur isotope data point to bacterial sulfate reduction as a sulfide source, corroborated by fossilized bacterial remains within the concretionary pyrite. Mucus and slime trails of marine benthos were probably important for early diagenetic pyrite production in these sediments; they can be considered a favorable "culture" medium for sulfate reducing bacteria. Because the mucus seems to mineralize very early in burial history, it also provides for enhanced preservation of bacterial remains.
10.2307/3514644|In order to assay the magnitude of potential extinctions resulting from the current deforestation of tropical rain forests, I compared the changes in mammalian faunas in Amazonia, Central and Western Africa, Southeast Asia, and Madagascar to background extinction rates and mass extinctions at other times in the Cenozoic. Within 165 years human-mediated extinctions will have befallen 45% of the genera and 54% of the families within tropical forests. These taxa are mainly members of endemic and relict faunas. This contemporary event is comparable to other Cenozoic extinctions, with extinction rates much greater than the background extinction rates affecting earlier Cenozoic mammals. These comparisons are based on the following assumptions: within-habitat extinction rates are comparable to mean extinction rates from multiple-habitat ecosystems; and all threatened genera go extinct and are preserved. However, constraints on my as sumptions will reduce the perceived magnitude when viewed historically. The distinctness of this extinction is questioned with reference to the Pleistocene events.
40606492|Paleontologists have identified patterns of stability in the diversity and composition of communities over millions to tens of millions of years within the fossil record. It is unclear, however, what processes are responsible for controlling the stability observed in these communitiesfor example, local species interactions within communities, local speciesenvironment relationships, immigration of species from the regional biota. This study tests whether the taxonomic composition of local brachiopod paleocommunities occupying a slope environment across a ~40 km region remains temporally uniform over a 5.4 myr interval of time recorded by the Pinery, Rader, Lamar, and Reef Trail Members of the middle Permian (Capitanian) Bell Canyon Formation (BCF). Two thirdorder sequence boundaries have been previously recognized in this formation, indicating episodes of environmental disruptions related to sea-level fall within the basin that can induce habitat tracking or immigration events from other basins. Presence-absence data analyzed by cluster analysis, ordination techniques, and rank-occurrence plots demonstrate that compositional turnover occurs within the BCF. Change in composition of the Lamar Member paleocommunities documents the replacement of established brachiopods with new taxa, including the immigration of two new brachiopod genera from outside North America, indicating the influence of regional-scale effects on community assembly. The results based on metacommunity models suggest that dispersal plays an important role in the assembly of brachiopod paleocommunities in the Delaware Basin. Results also indicate that fossil communities provide useful information for interpreting placement of sequence boundaries and the magnitude of disruption.
27670485|A semi-quantitative evaluation method has been developed to map integrated fossil plant records (leaf, fruit, and pollen assemblages) in terms of zonal vegetation. It incorporates taxonomy, physiognomy, and autecological features of the fossil plants. To derive vegetation types, the final stage of this method involves a quantitative evaluation. The maps presented here are based on 198 organ assemblages from 173 localities and stratigraphic levels of the Mioceneearly Pliocene across Europe. They cover three time intervals: (1) 47 Ma (Messinianmiddle Zanclean; late Mioceneearly Pliocene); (2) 8.512 Ma (latest Serravallianmiddle Tortonian); and (3) 1417 Ma (late Burdigalianlate Langhian). We also look at the interval 1314 Ma (late Langhianearly Serravallian). They not only show vegetation types but offer more detailed information on the composition of these associations (proportions of major components). The major zonal vegetation types recognized here are broad-leaved deciduous forests, mixed mesophytic forests, broad-leaved evergreen forests, subhumid sclerophyllous forests, open woodlands, and xeric grasslands. Between 14 Ma and 17 Ma, broad-leaved evergreen forests were widespread, and subhumid sclerophyllous forests were more strongly represented in western parts of Central Europe than in eastern parts. In the interval 8.512 Ma, broad-leaved deciduous forests largely replaced the evergreen forests, although these were still present in some refugia (e.g., the Lower Rhine embayment and northern Balkan peninsula), and first records of xeric grasslands are found along the northern margin of the Black Sea. The more discontinuous record available from 4 Ma to 7 Ma indicates that broad-leaved evergreen forests still occurred in northern parts of the Mediterranean (northern Italy, Balkan peninsula), while open woodlands increasingly appeared in central and southern parts of Italy and Greece.
3515759|Dinosaur track beds occur at several localities in the uppermost Cretaceous (Maastrichtian) North Horn Formation in the Wasatch Plateau, central Utah. The track bed localities, separated by up to 80 km, also contain dinosaur body fossils. At the type locality at North Horn Mountain in Emery County, more than 100 individual exposures and/or stratigraphic levels within a 1.2-km<sup>2</sup> study area exhibit tracks in vertical cross-sectional view. These biogenic structures are similar to others that have been interpreted elsewhere as deep dinosaur tracks. At the type section, track beds vertically span at least 183 m from the base of the formation up to a few meters below the highest dinosaur eggshells, which are interpreted to occur immediately below the Cretaceous-Tertiary (K-T) boundary interval. Track occurrence in the North Horn Formation demonstrates that large dinosaurs were present in central Utah until very shortly before the K-T boundary. The track structures feature deformation, overprinting, and slip striae that are interpreted to exhibit individual dinosaur behavior. Some striae exhibit repeating patterns that suggest tubercle configuration or scale patterns on dinosaur feet. Track groupings at any individual level suggest that many animals repeatedly congregated in topographic lows of the floodplain or near shifting anastomosing river systems, and track-size distribution largely suggests the presence of different sizes or age groups of herbivores. The conditions produced by anastomosed fluvial environments provided the depositional setting responsible for formation and preservation of most of the North Horn tracks.
3515059|The proportion of bivalve shells with drill holes in fossil assemblages is commonly used as a measure of the intensity of predation by drilling gastropods. Previous studies have assumed that drilled and undrilled bivalve shells have equal preservation potentials. We tested this assumption by measuring the mechanical strength of drilled and undrilled valves of the Recent bivalve Mulinia lateralis. Under compressive loads, drilled valves are significantly weaker than undrilled valves, a difference we attribute to local stress concentrations produced by the presence of the drill hole. Our results suggest that drilled valves may break preferentially and hence inferred patterns of predation may reflect taphonomic as well as biological processes. Careful examination of shell fragments in an assemblage may permit rec-ognition of this type of taphonomic bias.
3515746|A geyser mound, which has formed around the vent of an abandoned well-bore in the Tokaanu geothermal area (North Island, New Zealand) over the last 50 years, is formed primarily of white opal-A along with lesser amounts of black opal-A, reticulate, amorphous or poorly crystalline clay, halite, and scattered detrital quartz grains. Despite the boiling water ejected from the vent, at least 19 taxa of silicified microbes are present in the geyserite. Calothrix, Phormidium, and Synechococcus dominate. Other microbes, including local concentrations of diatoms, are widely scattered. The dominance of cyanobacteria is enigmatic given that these microbes typically are found in cooler water environments (< 60 C) on the medial to distal parts of geyser and hot-spring discharge aprons. The proximal zone around a geyser vent is environmentally unstable because it oscillates between periodic eruptions of boiling water and cooler phases in accord with the eruptive cycle of the geyser. Thus, the environmental niches on a geyser mound are temporally and spatially variable. The periodicity, duration, and magnitude of the eruptions, and the dispersal patterns of boiling water during eruptions control the distribution of the microenvironmental niches and their temporal changes. Dispersal and cooling of the ejected water will, for example, be controlled by factors such as height of the erupted water, ambient air temperature, and prevailing wind direction. Biotas compatible with relatively cool waters may thrive on geyser mounds because they inhabit areas that are not inundated constantly by boiling water. Their development and the sinter fabrics that they generate in the proximal zone of a geyser vent means that ancient deposits must be interpreted with caution.
10.2307/3514840|The substrate conditions of mudstone strata formed in ancient epicontinental settings may be determined from taphonomic assemblages of solitary rugose corals. Equal-area plots on the orientations of preserved corals can be used to infer whether subsequent hydrodynamic conditions affected any post-mortem reworking of the corals. Mechanically stable positions for curved corals can be determined. Curved corals preserved in mechanically stable positions are interpreted to have been deposited on firm or hard substrates. Curved corals preserved in mechanically unstable positions were probably embedded in soft or soupy substrates.
10.2307/3515214|Molluscs removed from 12 bulk samples of the Yazoo Formation (upper Eocene), exposed in a quarry at Cynthia, Mississippi, are similar in composition and diversity to those found in the underlying upper Eocene Moodys Branch Formation, when differences in outcrop area are considered (74% of the Yazoo species are also found in the Moodys Branch). This suggests there was no significant extinction during the late Eocene (at the P15/P16 biozone boundary) as has been reported for planktic foraminif era. Only 11.4% of the species from the Yazoo extend into the Oligocene Red Bluff Formation, suggesting a large molluscan extinction at or near the Eocene-Oligocene boundary. The presence in the lowermost Red Bluff of an assemblage with a relatively high diversity dominated by suspension-feeding bivalves suggests that the molluscan fauna had recovered from the extinction by the earliest Oligocene.
40606510|We report the first record of bite marks on an Upper Triassic dicynodontid bone from Poland. The bone comes from the Upper Triassic (Norian) Wozniki Limestone of Zawiercie, Krakw-Czstochowa Upland, southern Poland. The bone has several longitudinal bite marks on the anterior side of its shaft, as well as a row of small oval pits. The specimen bears, on its posterior side, evidence of additional damage parts of bone are missing in the proximal-and distal-end areas. The analysis of the longitudinal bite marks and pits indicates that more than one carnivore fed on the dicynodontid carcass. The different types of marks suggest that the specimen was scavenged.
3515826|Shells of the extremely long-lived bivalve mollusk Arctica islandica (Linnaeus 1767) provide century-long, multi-proxy records of inter-annual environmental variability in middle- to high-latitude marine settings. Reliable interpretation of these climate archives, however, requires exact knowledge of the length and timing of the growing season and which environmental parameters control shell growth rate during the year. Here, intra-annual growth microstructures, <sup>18</sup> O-derived ambient water temperatures, and <sup>13</sup> C from A. islandica shells collected from the southern and central North Sea are studied. Such data were analyzed in conjunction with observational sea-surface temperature and primary productivity data. Arctica islandica produces circadian growth increments in its shell (on average 31.5  m per day during age four, measured along the outer shell surface), which allow assignment of calendar dates to each shell portion. The growing season of A. islandica in the upper mixed layer of the ocean (here 25 m water depth) is not continuous over an eight-month period as previously suggested. Rather, it is interrupted during spawning between early September and mid-November. In addition, shell production ceases or is strongly retarded due to food scarcity between mid-December and mid-February. Water temperatures derived from oxygen-isotope ratios are in good accord with observed sea-surface temperatures. In specimens at 25 m water depth, abrupt changes in shell <sup>18</sup> O-derived temperature (T<sub> 18O</sub>) were interpreted to represent vertical displacements of the seasonal thermocline. Daily shell growth is controlled by temperature and food availability. Up to 58% of the variation in daily growth rate is explained by these environmental parameters. This study demonstrates that A. islandica can provide seasonal to subseasonal, precisely dated proxies of environmental variables. Such data are of increasing importance for climate models.
10.2307/3514560|The stratotype for the proposed Ediacaran System is located in the Flinders Ranges of South Australia. The top of the stratotype, which by definition coincides with the base of the Cambrian System, is located at the contact between the Pound Subgroup and the overlying Parachilna Formation. Regional mapping and stratigraphic analyses by earlier workers have suggested that this contact reflects a regional unconformity. Recent detailed mapping and re-evaluation of conflicting stratigraphic relationships has cast doubt upon this conclusion. It appears that the contact is locally a sharp change in facies and not a significant stratigraphic break. The implications of this are twofold. First, it suggests that the presently proposed upper boundary of the Ediacaran System stratotype may actually lie well within the Lower Cambrian. This would require a re-evaluation of the stratotype as well as a downsection shift of the Proterozoic-Cambrian boundary. Second, it may indicate that the Ediacaran fauna of South Australia are much younger than previously supposed, thereby minimizing the perceived gap between this fauna and younger Cambrian faunas.
10.2307/3515373|Fossil foliage cuticles of the Late Carboniferous medullosalean pteridosperm Neuropteris ovata show a marked drop in stomatal density and index in the very early Stephanian, and a return to higher values at the end of the Stephanian. This probably reflects a rise in CO<sub>2</sub> partial pressure in the atmosphere during the Stephanian, due to a drastic contraction of the tropical forests. This interval of high atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> levels appears to coincide with a warming interval in both the Gondwanan and Angaran areas.
10.2307/3515314|During Late Pleistocene time, a shallow embayment covering more than six hectares near Punta San Antonio (Baja California Sur, Mexico) was flooded from the Gulf of California to a depth of about 14 m. More than 400 m of shoreline along the inner perimeter of this bay consists of fitted boulders derived from adjacent tectonic blocks of Cretaceous granodiorite and Miocene andesite. In most places, the 1-m-thick boulder bed unconformably blankets Miocene tuff related to the Upper Comond Group. Elsewhere it sits on Lower Pliocene limestone belonging to the San Marcos Formation. Stabilized through extensive cementation by coralline red algae, the rim of the boulder bed forms a steep rocky shoreline reposed between 50 and 70. Biological zonation is expressed both laterally and vertically by the remains of more than 30 species of marine intertidal organisms that colonized the uneven face of the boulder bed under varying conditions of wave activity and shore orientation. An exposed outer shore preserves vertical zonation among in situ mollusks differentiated between an upper zone, characterized by Modiolus capax, and a lower zone of Codakia distinguenda. A more sheltered inner shore shows vertical differentiation between an upper zone, including Ostrea palmula and Crucibulum scutellatum, and a lower zone still featuring Codakia distinguenda (but with different associates). At the rear of the embayment, a small protected cove was well sheltered from wave activity. Here an upper zone is dominated by large coral colonies of Porites californica, together with diverse mollusks, in contrast to a lower zone depleted in corals but retaining much the same mollusk assemblage. Upper Pleistocene marine terraces correlated with oxygen isotope substage 5e follow elevations close to 12 m above present sea level throughout the surrounding gulf-coast region. The top of the extensive boulder bed at Punta San Antonio is 27.5 m above present sea level, but its seaward margin is connected by a continuous ramp to a 13-m level on the present shoreline. The boulder bed represents a local anomaly in average coastal uplift since the last interglacial epoch (corrected for eustasy) that is three and a half times the normal regional rate (17 cm/1,000 yr as opposed to 5 cm/1,000 yr). Ongoing uplift associated with the adjacent tectonic block that contributed granodiorite to the Punta San Antonio boulder bed is implicated.
3515872|Geological and paleobiological attributes described in a carbonate unit from the upper Silurian of the Middle Atlas (Morocco) are interpreted as the result of chemosynthetic processes fueled by fluid seepage. These attributes include: the presence of authigenic carbonate accumulation embedded in siliciclastic rocks; tightly packed, monospecific megafaunal assemblages (atrypid brachiopods); microbial-derived products; precipitation of bio-induced minerals (especially hematite); and seep-derived carbonate phases. Evidence of in-situ. growth of the dense brachiopod communities is that their shells are all articulated, and show a complete range of growth sizes. Products of microbial activity are shared with other fossil seep deposits and include clotted micrite concentrations, crusts, and laminated structures, microtufts, biofilms, and endolithic filaments. The best-developed microbial features were recovered in reddish mudstone beds below and within the brachiopod concentrations, where they consist of complex microbial frames morphologically comparable to the ones produced by Beggiatoa mats in modern chemosynthesis-based environments. These remnant mats are associated with early hematite precipitation, which has permitted their extensive mineralization and, consequently, the preservation of their stratigraphic relationships with the shell accumulations. Carbonate phases such as botryoids, splayed calcite, and stromatactoids form the infilling of cavity systems and microconduits. Repeated events of mineral precipitation and corrosion are documented in botryoids and stromatactoids, as well as in more extensive corrosion surfaces, as a result of changes in the ambient chemistry related to type and changing intensity of the seeping fluids. This carbonate unit is the oldest-known seep-derived unit, with a well preserved, voluminous, and diverse microbial component.
25835616|The late Guadalupian Lamar Limestone Member of the Bell Canyon Formation, Delaware Basin, west Texas, records dramatic fluctuations in radiolarian faunal composition that are interpreted to record basin-scale changes in hydrography. Samples taken across one of these intervals of fluctuation show a change from a sparse, nearly monospecific fauna dominated by Follicucullus ventricosus to a more radiolarian-rich interval dominated by spongy spumellarians of the Copicyntrinae and Spongodiscidae. Carbonate stable isotope and organic biomarker geochemical data from this same interval support a strong terrestrial-freshwater influence on the spumellarian-dominated beds. Specifically, biomarker data show lower C/C ratios and n-alkane distributions indicative of terrestrial organic matter sources in the spumellarian-dominated beds. In the whole-rock carbonate fraction, O and C show a shift to more negative values, consistent with increased meteoric water influence in the spumellarian-dominated interval. Lithologically, the spumellarian-dominated beds are siltier; however, they lack any increase in shallow water allochems, such as sponge spicules, that might indicate the spumellarians and associated terrestrial signature are a function of transporting a shallower radiolarian fauna into the basin via turbidity flows. Faunal changes more likely represent a stimulatory response to increased runoff by in situ spumellarians in the surface waters of the basin.
10.2307/3515282|Ostreoliths are abundant in the limestones, siltstones, and shales of the upper Carmel Formation (Middle Jurassic) in southwestern Utah. These are circumrotatory accumulations of the oyster Liostrea strigilecula, along with Plicatula bivalves, the bereniciform bryozoan Eurystrotos, the boring Gastrochaenolites, the nestling bivalve Modiolus, and the encrusting inarticulate brachiopod Discinisca. The ostreoliths are mostly spherical to discoidal and range in diameter from less than two centimeters to more than half a meter. They are found in two laterally-extensive horizons, one directly on a hardground and the other passing through ooid shoal and lagoonal facies. The ostreoliths formed in two ways. One group started as Liostrea-encrusted hardgrounds that were eroded and fragmented on the seafloor. These oyster accumulations collected additional oyster recruits on their sides and undersides until final burial. The second group of ostreoliths developed on soft substrates in oolitic shoals where Liostrea encrusts mollusk valves. The oysters grew on the upward-facing convex surfaces; the downward-facing concave sides were encrusted by bryozoans and Plicatula. After the ostreolith rotated, Liostrea again colonized the upper surfaces but died on the new undersides. The dead Liostrea valves on the undersides were encrusted by Plicatula and the bryozoans. Lithophagid bivalves bored the dead valves as well, and Modiolus nestled in vacant borings and between oyster valves. This accumulation process continued until the ostreoliths were buried in tempestites. These ostreoliths represent a mobile community in which faunal composition and diversity was controlled by the rate of overturning and the consistency of the substrate. Morphological features of Liostrea, such as a deep left valve, rapid growth and calcitic composition, were essential for ostreolith development. One laterally-extensive ostreolith horizon was formed when storm currents distributed them across facies boundaries.
27670535|The seventh largest mass extinction of the Phanerozoic Era occurred in the Late Mississippian and coincided with the onset of the late Paleozoic ice age. Analyses of brachiopod genera from Mississippian strata of the Central Appalachian Basin reveal that the regional expression of the mass extinction occurred after the development of high-amplitude glacioeustasy by several million years and occurred instead during low-latitude cooling and the expansion of glaciation near the Mississippian-Pennsylvanian boundary. The Late Mississippian mass extinction was even more severe for genera in the Central Appalachian Basin than global metrics would predict; in addition to the genera of this basin that disappeared globally, many others disappeared regionally but survived elsewhere. The Late Mississippian mass extinction did not select against genera because of their environmental breadth, number of regional occurrences (a proxy for relative abundance), species diversity, or body size. Nearshore genera suffered very slightly higher rates of extinction. The mass extinction did, however, strongly select against genera with narrow global latitudinal ranges. These patterns of selectivity closely resemble those reported for the five largest Phanerozoic mass extinctions (Late Ordovician, Late Devonian, end-Permian, end-Triassic, and end-Cretaceous). This selective regime also underpinned the whole of the late Paleozoic ice age because genera that survived the Late Mississippian mass extinction dominated the global brachiopod fauna until the ice age ended in the middle Permian.
3515739|Exceptionally detailed soft tissues have been identified within the fossilized feces of a large Cretaceous tyrannosaurid. Microscopic cord-like structures in the coprolitic ground mass are visible in thin section and with scanning electron microscopy. The morphology, organization, and context of these structures indicate that they are the fossilized remains of undigested muscle tissue. This unusual discovery indicates specific digestive and taphonomic conditions, including a relatively short gut-residence time, rapid lithification, and minimal diagenetic recrystallization. Rapid burial of the feces probably was facilitated by a flood event on the ancient coastal lowland plain on which the fecal mass was deposited.
27670591|Trace fossils on sauropod skeletons from a quarry in fluvial deposits of the Morrison Formation, Wyoming, are used to reconstruct the taphonomic history of the dinosaur bone accumulation. Shallow pits; rosettes; hemispherical pits; thin, curvilinear, branching grooves; and U- to V-shaped linear grooves make up trace fossils found on sauropod skeletons. The traces were interpreted by comparisons to traces on modern bone. Rosettes are circular rings of modified bone and are likely an early stage in the production of shallow pits. They are interpreted as pupation chambers constructed in dried flesh in contact with sauropod bone. Hemispherical pits are circular with a U-shaped cross section and interpreted as dermestid pupation chambers completed in sauropod bone. Thin, curvilinear, branching grooves are semicircular in cross section, form irregular dendritic or looping patterns, and are interpreted as root etchings. U- to V-shaped linear grooves are interpreted as theropod or crocodilian bite marks. Skeletal articulation and condition and distribution of bone modification traces suggest the skeletons accumulated at this site over no more than 3.5 years, with the bulk of the skeletons contributed during the dry season in the final 36 months. Carcasses went through all stages of decompositionincluding the dry stage, represented by shallow pits, rosettes, and hemispherical pits. Vertebrate scavengers and necrophagous arthropods fed on the carcasses during all decomposition stages prior to burial of the assemblage.
40606457|The oldest known Jurassic coral reef is exposed in the Ardche region of southern France. This reef site, consisting of at least three reefal bodies, is of early Hettangian age and thus immediately postdates the end-Triassic mass extinction, which is well known for its catastrophic effect on reef building. Bulk carbonate carbon isotopes of the limestones below the reef are likely to record environmental perturbations subsequent to the mass extinction. The main reef is surprisingly well developed (20 m in thickness, 200 m in lateral extent) and composed of at least four genera and six species of coralsnot only holdover genera from the Triassic, but also one newly evolved genus (Phacelophyllia), contributed to reef construction. Just like their latest Triassic counterparts, the reef is dominated by phaceloid corals with a considerable contribution of microbialite. The reef predates similarly well developed structures by almost ten million years. The shelf setting of the reef renders it unlikely that refuges around oceanic islands are needed to explain survival of corals across the end-Triassic mass extinction.
10.2307/3514926|Echinoids from the last interglacial (=Sangamon; ca. 125,000 years old) Falmouth Formation of north Jamaica, a raised reef paleoenuironment, are almost invariably preserved as disarticulated skeletal ossicles. Comparison of over 11,000 of these ossicles with extant shallow-water echinoids from the island has enabled half of the living genera to be recognized from the Pleistocene raised reef. The paleoecological distribution of these ossicles is in good agreement with the ecological distribution of these taxa within reefs at the present day, and supports the reconstruction of the Falmouth Formation reef ecosystem based on sedimentological and coral data. Regular echinoids dominate the fossil echinoid fauna, despite normally being less well represented than irregulars in analyses based on complete tests only. This suggests that disarticulated elements can provide important data for studies of echinoid diversity and evolution. The particularly sturdy tests of clypeasteroids are surprisingly absent from the fauna, strongly suggesting that they were truly absent from the study area in the late Pleistocene.
10.2307/3514647|An extensive areal occurrence of a Lower Oligocene rhodolith limestone has been observed in cores and outcrops extending nearly 290 km along a NE-SW trend from south-central Georgia to the Florida Panhandle. Maximum observed thickness of the limestone is 30 m. Such a tremendous accumulation of fossil rhodoliths has not been previously described in the literature. The boundaries of the rhodolith facies coincide with the edges of the Suwannee Strait, a Cretaceous to Neogene paleobathymetric low, and may be used in subsurface mapping to delimit the edge of the Strait. Most of the rhodoliths are Archaeolithothamnium with a mean diameter of 5 cm and most (95%) are spherical (compact) in shape. Rhodolith shape plus their internal laminar growth pattern indicate exposure to high-energy environments, resulting in frequent movement of the algae. The occurrence of Archaeolithothamnium, along with the red alga Lithopo rella and a dasycladacean alga, suggest moderate to shallow water depth. Rhodoliths overwhelmingly dominated the marine biotic community because the coarse, mobile substrate they produced precluded the development of a more diverse faunal assemblage. Species that did live within the rhodolith facies had specific adaptations for survival on such a substrate including the ability to encrust (corals and ectoprocts), bore (Lithophaga), live interstitially (Lima), and ease of mobility (scallops, echinoids).
10.2307/3515574|An analysis is presented of the diversity and faunal turnover of Jurassic ammonites related to transgressive/regressive events. The data set contained 400 genera and 1548 species belonging to 67 ammonite zones covering the entire Jurassic System. These data were used in the construction of faunal turnover curves and ammonite diversities, that correlate with sea-level fluctuation curves. Twenty-four events of ammonite faunal turnover are analyzed throughout the Jurassic. The most important took place at the Sinemurian-Carixian boundary, latest Carixian-Middle Domerian, Domerian-Toarcian boundary, latest Middle Toarcian-Late Toarcian, Toarcian-Aalenian boundary, latest Aalenian-earliest Bajocian, latest Early Bajocian-earliest Late Bajocian, Early Bathonian-Middle Bathonian boundary, latest Middle Bathonian-earliest Late Bathonian, latest Bathonian-Early Callovian, earliest Early Oxfordian-Middle Oxfordian, earliest Late Oxfordian-latest Oxfordian, latest Early Kimmeridgian, Late Kimmeridgian, middle Early Tithonian and Early Tithonian-Late Tithonian boundary. More than 75 percent of these turnovers correlate with regressive-transgressive cycles in the Exxon, and/or Hallam 's sea-level curves. In most cases, the extinction events coincide with regressive intervals, whereas origination and radiation events are related to transgressive cycles. The turnovers frequently coincide with major or minor discontinuities in the Subbetic basin (Betic Cordillera).
27670533|This study documents the traces and burrowing behaviors of nymphs of the prairie cicada Cicadetta calliope (Hemiptera: Cicadidae), as observed in neoichnological experiments. Cicada nymphs were collected from the C horizons of sandy Fluvents along the Kansas River east of Lawrence, Kansas. The nymphs appeared to be fifth instars, 1317 mm long and 67 mm wide. Nymphs were placed in plastic enclosures containing layers of colored, moist, very fine-grained sand. They burrowed immediately, excavating air-filled, sediment-enclosed cells between 20 mm and 40 mm long and averaging 9 mm wide. Burrowing was completed in three stages: (1) sediment in the forward portion of the cell was excavated and rolled into a ball with the forelimbs; (2) the nymph turned 180 using a forward roll, and moved to the back of the cell; and (3) the sediment ball was pushed up against the back wall of the cell and kneaded with the forelimbs into a thin layer. Resulting burrow traces are sinuous and distinctly meniscate and demonstrate that insect larvae construct meniscate, backfilled burrows in well-drained terrestrial settings. Cicadetta calliope nymphs and their traces are excellent analogs for meniscate trace fossils commonly found in late PaleozoicCenozoic alluvial deposits and paleosols. Such meniscate trace fossils are useful for interpreting the paleoenvironment and paleohydrogeology of the units in which they are found. In addition, such backfilled burrows can be used to supplement the fossil record of cicada-like hemipterans, currently known only from the latest Permian to the Early Triassic.
40865407|In the Middle-Upper Jurassic boundary of the External Subbetic, there are abundant discontinuities with neptunian dikes and sills composed of Callovian-lower Tithonian deposits. In cavities developed on a slope with escarpments, cryptobiontic communities were preserved in life position.These cavities were excavated beneath a hardground covering the upper surface of Bathonian oolitic limestones deposited in very shallow pelagic carbonate platforms. The biogenic crusts are composed mainly of serpulids and Frutexiteslaminated dendrolitic microstructuresand, secondarily, by sessile foraminifera. The serpulids were pioneer organisms during colonization of the walls of small cavities in stressed shadowcryptic environments. Serpulid aggregates then grew downward from the top walls of the cavities. The colonization of serpulid tubes was mainly after the death of organisms, first by microborers, secondly by Frutexites, and later by sessile foraminifera. The preferential colonization of these cryptic environments by serpulids can be interpreted as due to possible photophobic behavior and or the possibility of avoiding space competition or predation.
10.2307/3514828|Four carbonate mounds of Cretaceous age, interpreted as chemosynthetic cold-seep communities, outcrop in the Canadian Arctic. These ecosystems formed at intermediate depth (<400 m) on the sea floor of the Sverdrup Basin and adjacent Eglinton Graben. The communities were fed by methane, and perhaps higher hydrocarbons, that seeped from unknown subsurface sources along synsedimentary fault systems associated with a half-graben on Prince Patrick Island, and a salt diapir on Ellef Ringnes Island. Each mound contains abundant bivalves and serpulid worm tubes embedded in methane-derived authigenic carbonates, characterized by an extreme 13<sup>C</sup>-depletion (<sup>13</sup>C= -35 to -50%<sub>o</sub>). Oxygen isotopes (<sup>18</sup>O = -1 to +3%<sub>o</sub>) suggest temperatures of precipitation close or slightly below ambient marine temperatures for that area. Each mound formed by a complex sequence characterized by the recurrence of fossils and methane-derived carbonate phases (micrite, botryoidal calcite [former aragonite], splayed calcite, yellow calcite), interrupted by episodes of carbonate corrosion and pyrite precipitation. This sequence indicates that the mound environment shifted back and forth between aerobic, oxidizing and H<sub>2S</sub>-free conditions, and anaerobic, reducing and H<sub>2S</sub>-rich conditions. These shifting conditions are attributed to the growth and demise of an oxic-anoxic interface on the sea floor formed by bacterial mats.
10.2307/3515004|Early Cretaceous theropod and iguanodontid footprints are reported from the eastern Manchuria area. They are similar to theropods from the Tetori Group, Japan and the Gyeongsang Supergroup, South Korea, and currently are only identifiable at higher taxonomic levels as of theropod and iguanodontid affinity. Both theropod and iguanodontid trackmakers from NE China, South Korea and Japan evidently occur in the same paleobiogeographical province in which the psittacosaurid fauna is reported on the basis of skeletal remains. The ichnocoenosis is typical of the broadly defined large ornithopod ichnofacies associated with fluvio-lacustrine environments in humid and temperate settings, and does not correspond closely to the known skeletal fauna. Such disparity suggests that trace and body fossil records often sample different animal communities.
20173005| The Great Bank of Guizhou (GBG) is an isolated Late Permian to Late Triassic carbonate platform in the Nanpanjiang Basin of Guizhou Province, southwest China. A faulted syncline exposes a cross section of the platform margin, including a well-preserved Anisian (earliest Middle Triassic) reef complex approximately 1 km wide and 800 meters thick. Geochronologic constraints from associated basin-margin strata indicate that reef development initiated late in the Early Triassic, making it the oldest-known platform-margin reef complex of the Mesozoic Era. The reef framework consists primarily of microspar-filled tubes 100 m wide and up to a few cm long that are embedded in irregular to branching, mm-scale masses of micrite, traditionally assigned to the problematic genus Tubiphytes. Based on preserved sporangia, the Nanpanjiang structures are interpreted as microbially induced micritic precipitates that formed in association with an otherwise uncalcified alga. A low-diversity metazoan and algal community also occurs within the reef complex, but these organisms did not contribute significantly to the reef framework or to the accretion of the reef complex. Rather, reef development is interpreted to have resulted largely from the stabilization of platform-margin sediments by algae and associated microbial mats. Only gradually, through the Middle and Late Triassic, did framework-building metazoans evolve to occupy and then construct reefs on the margins of carbonate platforms. 
3514763|Skeletal remains of ceratopsian dinosaurs and a turtle, a dinosaur footprint, and tooth marks of a small carnivorous reptile on a freshwater clam show that the terrestrial vertebrate fauna of the Late Cretaceous of the North Slope of Alaska was moderately diverse in the Late Cretaceous. Paleobotanical evidence suggests that the climate was cool temperate and that mean annual temperature decreased through the Late Cretaceous. Winter temperatures were likely to have been below freezing for at least short intervals. Dinosaurs either could have overwintered on the North Slope or migrated. Modern high-latitude herbivores survive severe winters on poor-quality forage, despite the food requirements suggested by their metabolism. So long as freezing conditions were not long or severe enough for dinosaurs to sustain tissue damage, the reptiles are likely to have been able to survive the Late Cretaceous high-latitude winters, whether they were endotherms or ectotherms, because forage was richer and temperatures milder than the conditions faced by modern, highlatitude herbivores. Alternatively, the dinosaurs could have migrated with the "sun line," possibly as far as the Cretaceous Arctic Circle, a distance of  2100 km, easily traveled by moving at a rate of 1 km/hr for 12 hrslday. Climatic data are not sufficiently precise to estimate the severity or length of freezing conditions and whether such conditions could have required migration.
10.2307/3515541|Eggshell taphonomy often is acknowledged to be worthy of investigation, but few studies have examined factors influencing eggshell preservation. In this study eggshell weathering, fragmentation, dispersal, orientation, and pedation were characterized in field and laboratory studies. Modern gull eggshell fragment dispersal and orientation patterns were compared with analogous patterns at a non-avian dinosaur egg clutch site. Among other findings: (1) hatched and depredated gull eggshells protected by an exclosure, but exposed to two years of colony weathering, fragmented relatively slowly, suggesting that colony resident activity is responsible for the relatively rapid disappearance of eggshell on the colony surface; (2) depredated eggshells could be distinguished from hatched eggshells due, in part, to differences in fracture patterns; (3) both gull and non-avian dinosaur eggshell fragments were most abundant close to nest centers, whereas this was not true for bones and mollusc shells in gull territories; (4) both gull and non-avian dinosaur eggshell fragments within nest areas were oriented concave up more commonly than concave down, in contrast to transported eggshell fragments; (5) chicken eggs experimentally placed in a gull colony were more likely to be taken by egg predators in areas of short or sparse vegetation than in areas of tall vegetation; and (6) the extent of fracturing was greater in fresh than in hollow chicken eggshells following compression beneath simulated sediment loads. Eggshell weathering, fragmentation, orientation, and dispersion patterns should be characterized during the excavation of fossilized eggs and nest sites.
41317442|The temporally extensive late Middle through Late Devonian biotic crisis involved at least three distinct peaks of elevated extinction intensity during an interval spanning ~25 myr and resulted in the preferential elimination of certain shallow-marine, warm-water taxa, especially members of reef communities. By the end of the second peak, delimited by the Frasnian-Famennian (F-F) boundary, the stromatoporoids, members of the dominant constructor guild in mid-Paleozoic reefal ecosystems, had ceased building reefs in most parts of the world. The northern Dugway Range in west-central Utah, United States, however, represents one of the few locations globally where stromatoporoids continued reef building into the Famennian. Two measured sections there, which are constrained biostratigraphically using conodonts, indicate that the biohermal sequences occur within the middle Palmatolepis crepida biozone and are early Famennian in age. The post-F-F extinction Dugway reefal faunas are depauperate and dominated by labechiid and stylostromid stromatoporoids, as is characteristic of other early Famennian reefs. In this region, evidence for reefal development is episodic, with stromatoporoid-bearing units interbedded with peloidal and coated-grain carbonate units lacking evidence of reef construction. The stromatoporoid survivors, although fairly minor constituents of Frasnian reef communities, belong to long-ranging clades and may represent socalled extinction-resistant taxa that flourished, albeit locally in Laurentia, following the F-F mass extinction.
27670491|Broad-scale analyses of Cambrian spiculate sponges are scarce. The apparent differences between Cambrian and Ordovician sponge faunas were included in Sepkoski's concept of evolutionary faunas; in these, sponges were regarded as minor contributors to the Paleozoic and modern faunas and insignificant in the Cambrian Evolutionary Fauna. More recent published occurrences of Cambrian and Ordovician spiculate sponges and the inclusion of archaeocyaths in the phylum Porifera, however, have altered our understanding of the significance of sponges among Cambrian faunas. The majority of Cambrian occurrences appear to be segregated into two major associations: lower Cambrian sponges in China, and middle Cambrian sponges in North America, primarily British Columbia and Utah. The main associations of spiculate sponges are in siliciclastic deposits from middle-to-deep muddy shelf and basin environments, whereas orchoclad demosponges are associated with shallow carbonate environments. Four main aspects of sponge biology are considered potential factors dictating the distribution of sponges in the Cambrian: their trophic requirements, hydrodynamic constraints, possible biogeochemical constraints, and the sponge-sediment relationship. A series of critical steps in sponge evolutionary history occurred during the interval from the Proterozoic-Cambrian boundary to the middlelate Ordovician. The lowermiddle Cambrian faunas are considered to be a Cambrian evolutionary sponge fauna, with archaeocyaths and diverse monaxonid demosponges as distinctive components. There was a transitional fauna in the upper CambrianLower Ordovician, with orchoclad lithistids dominating shallow environments. Hexactinellids began to colonize nearshore siliciclastic settings during this time. The third interval, MiddleUpper Ordovician, corresponds to the Paleozoic Evolutionary Fauna, which is the interval during which lithistids diversified in several suborders and families and the stromatoporoid and sphinctozoan calcified sponges experienced their first radiation.
10.2307/3515538|The Bromacker section of the Lower Permian, Tambach Formation, in central Germany, yields an important fossil-vertebrate assemblage that was deposited in an upland setting near the center of a small, internally-drained paleograben. The fossil-vertebrate assemblage shares many taxa in common with others that are well-documented from North America, but is atypical in the: (1) unusually large abundance of the terrestrial herbivore Diadectes; (2) complete absence of aquatic and semi-aquatic vertebrates; and (3) rarity of medium-to-large carnivorous synapsids. The graben setting and the low-diversity, terrestrial, fossil-vertebrate assemblage together comprise a unique upland paleoecosystem, heretofore undocumented in the Early Permian. The composition of and relative abundances within the assemblage at Bromacker suggest that experiments with "high-fiber" vertebrate herbivores as the dominant or significant basal component of vertebrate food webs had begun by the Early Permian, but only in settings with few or no aquatic and semi-aquatic vertebrates. The combined stratigraphic section at Bromacker consists of portions of two conformable stratigraphic intervals -the Lower and the Upper beds. Depositional events in both were dominated by seasonal-to-subseasonal cycles of flooding in an ephemeral, alluvial-to-lacustrine setting that was hot year-round with annual precipitation similar to that of a wet-and-dry tropical or wetter climate. Excellently preserved, articulated and disarticulated fossil vertebrates indicate subaerial exposure times of short duration and limited reworking. In the case of articulated specimens, death and burial were probably coeval events, most likely caused by floods.
10.2307/3515076|Xenophyophores are large (several mm to 25 cm diameter), agglutinating protozoans, found primarily in the deep sea. Tests range from simple fans, discs or mudballs, to elaborately folded or reticulated forms, and often contain specific particle types or sizes. Xenophyophore densities are highest on sloped sediments associated with seamounts, continental slopes, canyons and trenches, and beneath productive surface waters. Most forms live as epibenthos on hard or soft substrates, feeding on surface deposits and suspended particles, but one endobenthic genus has been described. Modern xenophyophores enhance particle flux to the seabed, creating local regions of intense radiotracer and metazoan activity. Features key to xenophyophore identification in the fossil record include distinct test morphologies that sometimes involve incorporation of globigerinacean tests, sandwich-like structure in cross section, concentrations of barite (found within the protoplasm), and the presence of fecal strands containing many 10 to 20 mm fecal pellets having enhanced Pb contents. While xenophyophores have no confirmed fossil record, modern structures resembling the ichnogenus Paleodictyon are made by endobenthic xenophyophores in the genus Occultammina. Parallel distributions, morphologies and behaviors have been proposed for some graphoglyptid trace fossils, and for some xenophyophores in the families Syringamminidae and Reticulamminidae. Both occur in the deep sea, have regular or irregular network morphologies, and have been proposed to garden bacteria, trap meiofauna, or suspension feed. Fossils previously regarded as phylloid and fucoid algae, and several species of Aschemonella, previously regarded as foraminiferids, have lifestyles and morphologies consistent with those of modern epibenthic xenophyophores. Confirmation of xenophyophore presence in stratigraphic sequences could provide paleohabitat information and help elucidate the origins of this protozoan group.
10.2307/3515135|Experiments on decay and early diagenetic mineralization of shrimps in artificial sea water resulted, for the first time, in extensive mineralization in association with soft-tissues. The investigation focused on taxa with a cuticle which is not heavily mineralized in life: the shrimp Crangon, and the prawn Palaemon. A series of experiments was monitored in terms of morphological change, weight loss, change in chemical composition, and the formation of minerals. The major controls investigated were the amount of oxygen present at the outset, and whether the system was open or closed to diffusion. Decay resulted in a continuum of five morphological stages: 1. swollen, due to osmotic uptake, 2. ruptured, as the exoskeleton split, 3. hollow, as the muscles shrunk, 4. disarticulated, as the elements of the exoskeleton began to separate, and finally 5. fragmented. There was no indication that rate of decay (measured by weight loss) was strongly influenced by the availability of oxygen. Two categories of mineralization occurred, the precipitation of crystal bundles of calcium carbonate, and the replacement of soft-tissue in calcium phosphate. Where the system was open to diffusion, mineralization was dominated by the precipitation of crystal bundles in the shape of discs, hemispheres, rods and dumbbells; soft-tissue was rarely extensively mineralized. Where the system was closed, precipitation of crystal bundles was not as widespread, but mineralization of soft-tissue (muscle, hepatopancreas, eggs) in poorly crystalline calcium phosphate commonly occurred. The major source of phosphate was the carcass itself. In some specimens mineralized soft-tissue was subsequently overgrown by calcium carbonate crystal bundles. Crystal bundles began to precipitate within a few days; mineralization of soft-tissue started within two weeks but increased by four weeks. The main control was pH which decreases most where the system is closed, inhibiting the precipitation of calcium carbonate in favor of calcium phosphate. Where phosphate was added to the sea water the rate of morphological decay increased; soft-tissue was mineralized in a similar proportion of experiments but it was more extensive sooner. Doubling the content of bicarbonate resulted in an increase in the extent of crystal bundle formation, but the proportion of individuals in which they precipitated remained the same. The excess bicarbonate inhibited the phosphatization of soft-tissue. Control experiments showed that both types of mineralization also occurred when the shrimps were buried in sediment. Crystal bundles have not been reported from fossils (they would be very susceptible to diagenetic recrystallization). Phosphate minerals similar in texture and composition to those formed in the experiments preserve soft-tissues in exceptional preservations such as the Jurassic Cordillera de Domeyko of Chile and the Cretaceous Santana Formation of Brazil. The results of the experiments show that although the oxygen content of the sea water may not have a pronounced impact on rate of decay, the open or closed nature of the system influences pH and determines the type of early mineralization and hence the nature of preservation.
20173018| Siliceous spicules, typically 3 cm high and 5 mm in diameter, are common just above water level alongside hot-spring pools and channels in the Waiotapu geothermal area of New Zealand, which contain waters of 50-80C and pH of 1-3. These structures are formed of irregular sequences of silicified Cyanidium mats, silicified Alicyclobacillus mats, and homogeneous opal-A laminae. Allochthonous microorganisms (e.g., diatoms) form a minor part of the silicified biota. Lamina boundaries are discontinuities that reflect pauses in opal-A precipitation. Barite, gypsum, and kaolinite crystals were precipitated on the spicule surfaces during these periods. Opal-A precipitation on subaerial spicules occurs when SiO-rich fluid is delivered by (1) splashing water and spray, (2) temporary inundation by surging spring water, wind-driven waves, or local changes in the water table following periods of heavy rain, (3) steam condensate, and/or (4) capillary action. These abiogenic processes work in conjunction with biogenic processes controlled by microbial mats, which become temporarily established on spicule surfaces when conditions permit. These mats mediate spicule construction as they become silicified, providing substrates for opal-A cement precipitation. Nevertheless, stromatolite morphology cannot be attributed to a particular taxon because different localities have different microorganisms involved with spicule growth. 
10.2307/3514695|Many paleoecological analyses utilize estimates of the relative abundances of taxa in fossil or subfossil assemblages. Such estimates depend upon determination of the number of individuals present or some other measure of the amount of material collected for each taxon. I assess the validity of methods currently used to estimate numbers of individuals per taxon in mammalian assemblages. For any method of counting selected, the underlying assumptions about the probability of association among skeletal elements should correspond to processes of accumulation for the assemblage, as inferred from its taphonomic characteristics. No method is appropriate for all mammalian assemblages. Equating the number of individuals with the number of specimens per taxon is the appropriate method when formerly articulated material has been widely dispersed and has accumulated as isolated specimens. Determining the minimum number of individuals represented by multiple skeletal elements is appropriate when material originally accumulated in articulation. For mammalian assemblages from Middle Siwalik (late Miocene) sediments of Pakistan, different methods of counting are appropriate for assemblages from different sedimentary environments. For assemblages produced by current transport, I counted each specimen as a single individual. For assemblages produced by the activities of predators and scavengers, I determined the minimum number of individuals. Two taphonomic processes that influence the degree of association among skeletal remains are mortality and transport. Taphonomic histories that combine different causes of mortality and different conditions of transport produce fossil assemblages with expected taphonomic characteristics. These include the amount of articulated material, the spatial distribution of specimens, the presence of hydraulic sorting, the frequency of juvenile remains, and patterns of bone damage. Taphonomic characteristics of fossil assemblages do not permit all combinations of mortality and transport to be distinguished. Processes of transport generally obscure taphonomic characteristics imposed by different agents of mortality.
41317454|Actualistic studies of shell taphonomy in the marine subfossil record have found alteration in shell color to be a highly useful taphonomic indicator; however, the viability of shell discoloration for this purpose in the more profoundly altered material of the deep-time fossil record has not been explored. We investigated the relationship between the shell discoloration of Ordovician brachiopods and their taphonomic state to determine what information discoloration could provide about the conditions under which the shells were preserved. We examined 1033 specimens of Vinlandostrophia and Hebertella from type-Cincinnatian outcrops in southwestern Ohio and northern Kentucky, using a sampling design that allowed us to test the taphonomic significance of shell color in multiple stratigraphie units and across a wide geographic area. For each specimen, taphonomic data were recorded and multivariate analyses of the taphonomic attributes performed. Our results demonstrate that fossil shell discoloration is strongly related to overall taphonomic state, with darker colors associated with evidence of shell degradation. Further analyses suggest that shell color may be related to the incorporation of sulfide minerals and organic matter. Darker colors may reflect a higher residence time in the taphonomically active zone, in environments with slow sedimentation rates or multiple burial and exhumation cycles. Alternatively, darker colors may be indicative of environments with higher probabilities of discoloration, related to sediment and pore-water geochemistry. The strong correlation between shell discoloration and other indicators of taphonomic damage is evidence that discoloration reflects a taphonomic pathway from pristine to degraded shells, and may be a useful addition to taphofacies models.
27670404|Exposures of the upper Eocene to middle Oligocene White River Formation in northeastern Colorado contain ichnofossil-rich paleosols in a meandering alluvial system. The paleoenvironmental, paleoecological, and paleoclimatic significance of these paleosols and ichnofossils record the effects on soil ecosystems of the initial stages of global cooling in the late Eocene and early Oligocene. Previous studies of Eocene-Oligocene paleosols in Wyoming and South Dakota suggest a transition from woodland to grassland ecosystems in response to global cooling and drying. We describe four paleosol types from the study area. Type I paleosols include compound Entisols characterized by shallow networks of fine rhizoliths and ichnofaunal assemblages of Planolites isp., Pallichnus dakotensis, Macanopsis isp., Celliforma ficoides, and vertebrate coprolites. Type II paleosols are compound Inceptisols characterized by elongate rhizoliths and ichnofaunal assemblages of Planolites isp., Pallichnus dakotensis, Macanopsis isp., and vertebrate tracks. Type III paleosols are cumulative Inceptisols characterized by elongate rhizolith and ichnofaunal assemblages of Planolites isp., Pallichnus dakotensis, Macanopsis isp., Parowanichnus isp., Edaphichnium isp., and backfilled burrows. Type IV paleosols include composite Inceptisols characterized by large rhizoliths and ichnofaunal assemblages of Edaphichnium isp., Fictovichnus parvus, and wasp cocoons. The vertical transition from less-well-developed (Type I) to better-developed (Type IV) paleosols records decreasing rates of sedimentation and erosion, increasing rates of pedogenesis, and a transition in landscapes from grasslands to savannahs and woodlands. The effects of global cooling on the paleosols and soil biota, therefore, appear to have been buffered by basin-scale, autogenic, sedimentologic, and hydrologic processes.
10.2307/3514808|The mid-Carboniferous extinction event is a relatively minor mass extinction, probably caused by the onset of continental glaciation in the Southern Hemisphere. Changes in Paleozoic paleoclimate are difficult to trace because there is no coherent isotopic history of Paleozoic ocean temperature. However, the migration patterns of Northern Hemisphere articulate brachiopods during the early and middle Carboniferous suggest that high-latitude warming occurred between the middle and late Visean and that both high-latitude cooling and equatorial warming occurred at the time of the mid-Carboniferous extinction event in the early Namurian. Visean high-latitude warming may have been caused by the collision of Laurussia and Gondwana, which deflected warm currents north and south along the east coast of Pangaea. Namurian high-latitude cooling coincided with the onset of Southern Hemisphere glaciation. For articulate brachiopods in the Northern Hemisphere, rates of generic extinction increased during the time of high-latitude cooling and glacial onset (Namurian A). The extinction event began earlier (late Visean) in the Southern Hemisphere and may have been more severe. Immediately following the mid-Carboniferous extinction event, the rate of generic origination in both equatorial and nonequatorial latitudes rose as brachiopods radiated within the newly-established climatic zones. Marine invertebrates showed similar patterns of migration and evolution associated with glacial onset in the Miocene, which suggests that the patterns of faunal migration and evolution associated with glacial onset are predictable, and can be used to identify the cause of similar mass extinctions.
10.2307/3515487|Articulated remains and teeth preserved in vertebrate microfossil localities are used as independent lines of evidence to quantify the relative abundances of dinosaurs along a 250-km transect extending from the paleogeographically more inland Dinosaur Provincial Park area (Alberta), through the South Saskatchewan River area, to the more coastal Unity, Saskatchewan locality. A comparison of articulated dinosaur remains along chronostratigraphically equivalent horizons from the Dinosaur Provincial Park and South Saskatchewan areas indicate that ceratopsid dinosaurs are more abundant in the South Saskatchewan River area, whereas the converse is true for ankylosaur and pachycephalosaur dinosaurs. In the case of ceratopsid dinosaurs, the same distributional pattern is reflected in data amassed from vertebrate microfossil assemblages from these areas. In addition, vertebrate microfossil assemblages show that ceratopsids increase in relative abundance moving upsection in both the Dinosaur Park and South Saskatchewan River areas. In these same sections ankylosaurs and pachycephalosaurs decrease in abundance in the Dinosaur Park area, but their abundances show no change up through the section in the South Saskatchewan River area. These paleogeographic and stratigraphic patterns further support the existing hypothesis that ceratopsids were relatively more abundant in coastal areas, rather than inland areas, during the Campanian. They also provide tentative support for the hypothesis that ankylosaurs and pachycephalosaurs were, in general, more prominent members of inland communities.
10.2307/3515190|Bulk skeletal composition of Silurian benthic marine faunas was measured by phylum/class-level point counts of 162 samples from Europe and North America. Data for percent of skeletal material were plotted on triangular coordinates, using brachiopods, molluscs and arthropods as one axis, stromatoporoids, corals, and bryozoans as a second axis, and echinoderms as a third axis. This plot shows discrete fields of skeletal composition that correspond to major sedimentary environments. Faunas of nearshore clastic shelves and carbonate tidal flats are dominated by brachiopods, molluscs and arthropods and show relatively low diversity and little or no epifaunal tiering. Faunas of offshore clastic shelfs are dominated by the former three groups and also contain moderate amounts of echinoderms, corals and bryozoans, resulting in higher diversity and variable development of tiering. Reefs and level-bottom faunas of subtidal carbonate sediments are dominated by echinoderms, stromatoporoids, corals and bryozoans and show high diversity and extensive epifaunal tiering.
10.2307/3514834|Taphonomic and sedimentologic attributes of three dinosaur bone beds discovered within the Campanian Two Medicine Formation of Montana suggest drought-related mortality. Two bone beds, Canyon Bone Bed and Dino Ridge Quarry, have yielded the near-exclusive remains of a new species of Styracosaurus (Family Ceratopsidae); the third bone bed, Westside Quarry, is dominated by a new species of Prosaurolophus (Family Hadrosauridae). All three assemblages are mono/paucispecific, parautochthonous concentrations of disarticulated and dissociated skeletal debris. Evidence supporting a drought hypothesis includes: 1) a seasonal, semiarid paleoclimate, 2) associated caliche horizons, 3) aqueous depositional settings, 4) apparent age distributions characteristic of modern drought mortality (CBB and DRQ), and 5) the intraformational recurrence of low-diversity bone beds. Several alternative scenarios were considered, but drought proved most reasonable in light of the enhanced probability of preserving drought assemblages, and the species-selective and recurrent nature of modern drought mortality. Styracosaurus sp. and Prosaurolophus sp. may have been gregarious, water-dependent taxa; during drought these particular taxa may have obligatorily congregated, either in herds, familial groups, or seasonal aggregates, in the vicinity of persistent water sources. The mono/paucispecific natures of the bone beds may reflect ecological segregation due to varying degrees of water-dependency, resource partitioning, or territorial/resource defense within a Late Cretaceous dinosaur community. The preservational bias suggested by previous workers for drought assemblages is seemingly substantiated within the richly fossiliferous strata of the Two Medicine Formation.
27670581|Although most investigations of crinoid-predator interactions have focused on nektonic vertebrates (fishes and sharks), slow-moving benthic animals such as cidaroid echinoids may also interact antagonistically with stalked crinoids. This was recently supported by observations of extant isocrinids in modern deep-sea environments near the west end of Grand Bahama Island. In this paper, we report on stalks of crinoids from the Late Jurassic of south-central Poland, which co-occur with remains of cidaroids and show characteristic holes, bite marks, and signs of breakage. By analogy with the modern example, we interpret this as evidence of predation by cidaroids on crinoids. These Late Jurassic data may indicate that benthic predation was intense during the mid-Mesozoic. Importantly, this discovery also strengthens the hypothesis that benthic predators may have exerted considerable influence on the evolution of stalked crinoids.
10.2307/3514462|The number of fossils exposed in a stratigraphic or microscopic cross-section is proportional to the number contained per unit volume within the rock. However, it is also affected by the average size and shape of the fossils. The larger and more spherical a fossil is, the greater are its chances of being exposed (intersected) by a random planar cut. Thus, where fossils are randomly distributed and oriented in a hard matrix, it can be shown that: Na = Nv(kx), where Na is the number per unit area counted in cross-section, Nv is the number per unit volume, k is a shape factor, and x is the mean length. Since we can directly obtain Na, k, and x, it is possible to solve for, and thus estimate, Nv, volumetric abundance: Nv = Na/kx. Properly analyzed, volumetric abundances can yield insight into the paleoecological abundances of fossil species. A case study of six echinoid species co-occurring in the upper Eocene carbonates of Florida illustrates the methodology. Sampling of some 92 square m of cross-section shows volumetric abundances ranging from about 21 individuals/cubic m for the smallest species to as low as 0.036 individuals/cubic m for the largest. Thus, the former appears to be about 580 times more common in the rock. Assuming they had similar chances of burial and preservation (which can be experimentally estimated and corrected for), this also reflects their relative abundance in the late Eocene ecosystem. This greatly contrasts with estimates made from a simple cross-sectional count which indicates that the smallest species is only 81 times as common. Hence no adjustment for the artifacts of size and shape on the probability of exposure results in an erroneous estimation 7 times too low.
27670479|The Rancho La Brea tar pits represent a collection of Pleistocene fossils from an unusual sedimentary environment. A taphonomic analysis of a single tar seep, Pit 91, reveals a complex history of deposition and diagenesis for specimens found there. Radiometric dating of 46 bones from Pit 91 documents at least two episodes of deposition, one from 45,000 to 35,000 yr and another, shorter interval from 26,500 to 23,000 yr. Interestingly, the law of superposition was not upheld consistently in this case study, as some younger bones were found at a greater depth than older bones, implying that taphonomic time averaging took place. Bones are distributed as disarticulated elements in two large concentrations that span both depositional episodes. In general, long bones are oriented horizontally, with little or no preference for cardinal orientation. Degree of weathering or abrasion is not correlated with depth. Bone-on-bone contact (pit wear), however, increases with depth, suggesting possible compaction of bones through time. These results, combined with the disarticulation common to nearly all recovered specimens, suggest a postentrapment journey for the bones unique to asphalt deposits.
40865495|During IODP Expedition 310 (Tahiti Sea Level), drowned Pleistocene-Holocene barrier-reef terraces were drilled on the slope of the volcanic island. The deglacial reef succession typically consists of a coral framework encrusted by coralline algae and later by microbialites; the latter make up  80% of the rock volume. Lipid biomarkers were analyzed in order to identify organisms involved in reef-microbialite formation at Tahiti, as the genesis of deglacial microbialites and the conditions favoring their formation are not fully understood. Sterols plus saturated and monounsaturated short-chain fatty acids predominantly derived from both marine primary producers (algae) and bacteria comprise 44 wt% of all lipids on average, whereas long-chain fatty acids and long-chain alcohols derived from higher land plants represent an average of only 24 wt%. Bacterially derived mono-O-alkyl glycerol ethers (MAGEs) and branched fatty acids (10-Me-C <sub>16:0</sub> ; iso-and anteiso-C <sub>15:0</sub> and -C <sub>17:0</sub> ) are exceptionally abundant in the microbial carbonates (average, 19 wt%) and represent biomarkers of intermediate-to-high specificity for sulfate-reducing bacteria. Both are relatively enriched in C compared to eukaryotic lipids. No lipid biomarkers indicative of cyanobacteria were preserved in the microbialites. The abundances of Al, Si, Fe, Mn, Ba, pyroxene, plagioclase, and magnetite reflect strong terrigenous influx with Tahitian basalt as the major source. Chemical weathering of the basalt most likely elevated nutrient levels in the reefs and this fertilization led to an increase in primary production and organic matter formation, boosting heterotrophic sulfate reduction. Based on the observed biomarker patterns, sulfate-reducing bacteria were apparently involved in the formation of microbialites in the coral reefs off Tahiti during the last deglaciation.
10.2307/3515102|The Mimbral outcrop in northeastern Mexico represents nearly continuous sedimentation across the Cretaceous/Tertiary (K/T) transition. The K/T boundary is present in a 4 cm clay layer and 3 mm red layer above the top of a channel-fill deposit. The 60 m wide and 3 m high channel-fill deposit is of latest Maastrichtian age (A. mayaroensis Zone). It consists off aunally, lithologically and mineralogically distinct units that appear to represent a series of gravity flows related to the latest Maastrichtian sea-level lowstand. The biotic effects of the K/T boundary event were not catastrophic for planktic foraminiferal faunas at Mimbral, NE Mexico. Although 2/3 of the species disappeared at or below the K/T boundary, the effect on the overall foraminiferal population was small (<17%) because only rare, already endangered taxa disappeared. These taxa were specialized tropical and subtropical forms intolerant of environmental changes. The dominant taxa (>83%) consist of cosmopolitan forms tolerant of wide ranging environmental conditions. These survived the K/T boundary event without any sudden changes in their relative abundance. Their terminal decline about 100,000 years after the K/T boundary appears to be related to competition from the evolving Tertiary fauna. The limited biotic effects observed across the K/T boundary at Mimbral are consistent with other low latitude sections, and indicate that if a bolide impact occurred in the Caribbean, the biologic consequences were not as catastrophic as generally assumed even within a radius of 2000 miles.
10.2307/3514801|Communities of sabellariid worms (Polychaeta) occur as areally discontinuous, unlithified reefs on an irregular depositional topography of Holocene and older sediments at the mouth of the Northern River Lagoon, Belize, Central America. They are found in nearshore marine, moderate energy, tidally influenced environments of normal to low salinity. These colonies, as much as 30 cm thick, are composed of dense thickets of a gglutinated worm tubes (1.0 mm diameter, 3.0 cm length) that trap and bind sand- to silt-sized bioclastic debris, microorganisms, and micrite. Worm tube density in these communities averages 30 tubes cm<sup>-2</sup>. Based upon radiocarbon dating of peat deposits, and analyses of sediment cores, the worm reefs have flourished in the study area for at least 5100 years. This time span corresponds with sea level rise and transgression of the northern Belize coast. Initially, worms colonized drowned levees. Once established, the worm reefs stabilized these levees so that their original orientation normal to shore line is preserved today. Holocene paleoenvironments, interpreted from fossil assemblages of ostracodes and foraminifera, were constant over the last 5100 years, and were characterized by fluctuating salinity which apparently was advantageous for the development of tube-building worms. Sabellariid tubes in older Holocene deposits are clearly recognizable in the study area, and the existence of fossil reefs is readily indicated. Likewise, fossil worm reefs in the stratigraphic record may possibly be identified by the presence of rocks containing circular to longitudinal ichnofossils composed of agglutinated bioclasts surrounding circular openings.
27670403|A spectacular carbonate deposit from the western Meseta of Morocco consists of microbial and brachiopod limestones. The small, metersized Famennian limestone blocks are embedded in Carboniferous shales, implying later displacement. Primary deposition of the limestones apparently occurred below the depth limit of phototrophic organisms. The brachiopods belong to the genus Dzieduszyckia within the rhynchonellide superfamily Dimerelloidea. They occur in fantastic abundance, in a low-diversity faunal assemblage. The microbial limestones contain fossilized threadlike microorganisms of unknown affiliation. The enormous accumulation of brachiopods on the Famennlan seafloor is best explained by the former existence of a seep. Crude oil was a major component of the seepage fluids, as indicated by the occurrence of pyrobitumen (metamorphosed petroleum) and 13Ccarbonate values as low as -12%, akin to the isotopic composition of carbonates forming at modern oil seeps. The lowest 13C values in the Dzieduszyckia deposit are found for a carbonate phase referred to as banded/botryoidal cement. It is a fibrous, low-Mg calcite cement in the form of isopachous rims and botryoids that precipitated directly on and within brachiopod shells. The microbial limestones predominantly consist of this phase and therefore can be classified as cement framestones. Reticulate patterns of botryoidal aggregates and an elevated Sr content agree with an aragonite precursor of the banded/botryoidal cement. The interpretation of the Dzieduszyckia deposit as seep related supports the hypothesis that Paleozoic and Mesozoic members of the rhynchonellide superfamily Dimerelloidea were a lineage long associated with seeps that survived from Late Devonian to Early Cretaceous time.
10.2307/3515357|Increasingly, microbial communities are recognized for playing a potentially important role in defining and modifying surface sediment characteristics in various settings, ranging from terrestrial, through marginal marine, to continental margins. Whereas, the presence of microbial mats can be established with comparative ease in modern terrigenous clastics, their recognition in sedimentary rocks poses a big challenge. Terrigenous clastics of the Belt Supergroup (Mid-Proterozoic) show a number of features that can serve as microbial mat indicators: (A) domal buildups; (B) cohesive behavior; (C) wavy-crinkly character of laminae; (D) irregular wrinkled bed surfaces; (E) ripple patches; (F) laminae with mica enrichment; (G) irregular, curved-wrinkled impressions on bedding planes; and (H) lamina-specific distribution of early diagenetic minerals (dolomite, ferroan carbonate, pyrite). Positive identification of a fossil microbial mat requires one to find microbial filaments in life position. This is a difficult task even in the case of very favorable preservation of organic matter, and impossible to accomplish in many instances where fossil microbial mats are suspected. Nonetheless, the above features (especially when found in combination) are highly suggestive of microbial mats, and can serve as guides to sediments that may have accumulated under the influence of microbial mats. Whereas the Belt Basin examples are all from shallow-water environments, microbial mats may also have played an important role in deeper-water oxygen-deprived settings-the realm of black shale formation. In areas of modern oxygen-minimum zones, microbial mats have been found to thrive at the seafloor, profoundly influencing the chemistry of the sediment/water interface and sediment stability. Possible ancient analogs occur in a variety of black shale deposits (e.g. Jet Rock, Monterey Formation, Green River Formation), with wavy to crinkly kerogen-rich laminae being the main indication of possible microbial mat origins. Although microbial mats clearly have the ability to thrive in black shale environments, it will require more research to firmly establish whether, and how extensively, they occupied this niche in the geologic past.
10.2307/3514965|The Secor Coal of Oklahoma (Boggy Formation, lower Desmoinesian/Westphalian D equivalent) is one of the few coals discovered, to date, in which Anabathra pulcherrima (=Paralycopodites brevifolius) was a dominant element. Anabathra and Lepidophloios define the major assemblages in the coal, which also contains elements of medullosan pteridosperms and Cardiocarpus spinatus producing cordaites. The Lepidophloios to Medullosa gradient is not obscured by the numerous Anabathra-dominated zones, and a disturbance element is suggested in association with Anabathra abundance. Comparison of the coal-ball flora with a clastic-compression flora from the roof of the coal reveals widely divergent patterns of dominance and diversity. The compression flora is strongly dominated by medullosan pteridosperms with subdominant marattialean tree ferns. As in most instances, the compression flora from the immediate roof of the coal is not an accurate representation of the peat-forming vegetation, at either the level of species composition or the relative abundance of major groups of plants. The swamp and surrounding clastic deltaic environments were edaphically distinct and supported separate floras between which there was limited species exchange.
10.2307/3514930|Eolian induced landward transport of large (up to 10 cm length) valves of the marine bivalve Mya arenaria, as well as some other flat and relatively light, but large shells of other bivalves was observed along the coast of the Wadden Sea during a gale. Over 70% of the Mya shells had epiphytes and/or epizoans, indicating that the shells had been exposed on the tidal flat for some time. The size-frequency distribution of the wind transported Mya shells was comparable to that from the beach. A greater number of left valves than right valves was found in the eolian samples, whereas in the beach samples right valves predominated. This indicates left/right sorting. Although quantitatively not significant and occurring only a few times per year, eolian transport may move large entire shells into terrestrial environments. Eolian transport of smaller marine organisms has been documented previously and may involve greater distances inland.
10.2307/3514776|The Paleocene Shotgun fauna of Wyoming includes marine sharks as well as mammals. It has been suggested that the sharks were introduced from the Cannonball Sea. It is more likely that these sharks were reworked from a Cretaceous rock sequence that included both marine and terrestrial deposits as there is a mixture of marine and freshwater taxa. These taxa have not been recorded elsewhere after the Cretaceous and are not known from the Cannonball Formation. Early Eocene localities at Raven Ridge, Utah, similarly contain teeth of Cretaceous marine and freshwater fish, dinosaurs, and Eocene mammals. The Cretaceous teeth are well preserved, variably abraded, and serve to cast doubts on criteria recently used to claim that dinosaur teeth recovered from the Paleocene of Montana are not reworked. Another Eocene locality in the San Juan Basin has produced an Eocene mammalian fauna with diverse Cretaceous marine sharks. Neither the nature of preservation nor the degree of abrasion could be used to distinguish reworked from contemporaneous material. The mixed environments represented by the fish taxa and recognition of the extensive pre-Tertiary extinction of both marine and freshwater fish were employed to recognize reworked specimens.
10.2307/3515346|Dish-shaped lenses of dolomitic limestone commonly occur in the arenaceous Lower Tertiary and Quaternary eolianites of the Central Namib Desert region. They are interpreted as the deposits of vegetated play a lakes and, as such, have been described as "fossil oases". Regional stratigraphic studies have shown that there were two separate wet episodes during which these playa lakes formed. These are the Zebra Pan Carbonates of the Late Eocene-Early Miocene Tsondab Sandstone Formation and the Khommabes Carbonates in the partially consolidated Late Pliocene-Recent Sossus Sand Formation. In plan view, the dolomitic limestone beds have a roughly concentric distribution of lithofacies and trace fossils that reflect the water-table depth and the interaction of the vegetated lake margins with the surrounding dunes. The facies change laterally from outer arenitic dolocrete with branching unlined cylindrical Planolites burrows, some with indistinct meniscae (possibly Rutichnus) and ovoid Termitichnus nest structures to massive carbonate with desiccation, syneresis, and tepee structures containing abundant Taenidium burrows and reed-stem casts. The central facies comprises microlaminated carbonate with stromatolite mounds and algal matted surfaces with no burrowing infauna. The controlling factor over the stratigraphic distribution of paleo-playas is climate. Both intervals are linked to "wet desert" phases when the climate changed from an arid to relatively wet fluvial phase with perennial rivers and seasonal floods, through to semi-arid, with a more flashy fluvial discharge, and eventually returning to arid conditions. The spatial distribution of these assemblages is controlled by interdune topography and river-flood discharge in the case of the Zebra Pan-type end-point playas, and the elevation of groundwater table by bedrock highs in the case of Khommabes-type oases.
10.2307/3515326|The Pliocene lake sediments at Willershausen, Germany, have yielded a diversity of remarkably preserved fossils, including crayfish and insects. The internal structure of the cuticle of the crayfish Astacus and of insects is preserved, but shows evidence of some degradation. Chitin and amino acids survive, although the quantity that remains is variable. The proportion of chitin in the cuticle of the modern crayfish Pacifastacus (12.2%) is higher than that in Astacus from shallow depths in the Willershausen paleolake (5%), indicating that the fossils have undergone degradation. Analyses of the cuticles of these crayfish following demineralization show that some chemical components, which were presumably bound to the carbonate, are lost. The proportion of chitin (40%) in the cuticle of a weevil from the deeper part of the stratified paleolake (below the chemocline) is comparable to that in the cuticle of modern beetles. A much lower proportion of chitin (2-5%) survives in the cuticle of insects from the shallower oxygenated part of the paleolake, indicating that intensive degradation has occurred. Thus depositional setting, and biomineralization, influence the preservation of the organic constituents of fossil arthropod cuticles.
27670306|Laminated diatomaceous sediments from Effingham Inlet, British Columbia, are described and classified in this study. Analyses were made from ten 15-cm long sediment slabs, spanning the last 5500 years, and 52 thin sections from which 408 sedimentary couplets were identified. Microfossil analysis and radiocarbon dating of the sediments reveal that the laminae are annually deposited (i.e., varves), with couplets containing a terrigenous and diatomaceous lamina pair. Terrigenous laminae, averaging 0.56 mm in thickness, consist of silt, organic debris, and robust diatoms, and are deposited during the winter months. Diatomaceous laminae, with a mean thickness of 1.85 mm, can be divided into three component laminae of differing compositions that reflect changing seasonal conditions during the spring, summer, and autumn months. This seasonal succession is seen in 76% of the couplets examined, recurring year after year with variations in couplet thickness and species occurrence. Couplets lacking the succession may represent deposition during periods of low diatom production or years with low seasonality (e.g., El Nio). Variability in couplet styles corroborates climate trends derived from pollen and Neoglacial studies. Sediments older than 4000 yr BP (calibrated radiocarbon dates) contain couplets with a distinct annual succession, and are interpreted to have been deposited during conditions that were warmer than today. Sediments deposited between 2000 to 4000 yr BP also contain couplets with an annual succession, but the laminated intervals are interrupted by brief nonlaminated intervals. The sediments were likely deposited during cooler and wetter conditions than today. Sediments younger than 2000 yr BP were deposited during modern conditions. This study illustrates the effective utility of an ultra high-resolution analysis of laminated sediment records, once proxy indicators are defined, and is important for understanding post-glacial climate evolution along the coast of British Columbia and throughout the northeast Pacific Ocean during the late Holocene.
10.2307/3515553|Siliceous stalactites, formed of opal-A laminae that are concentrically arranged around a hollow soda-straw, are common features structures in some of the geyser and hot spring deposits at Whakarewarewa and other geothermal areas of New Zealand. These siliceous stalactites contain diverse biota of bacteria (including cyanobacteria), fungi, and diatoms that lived on the stalactite surfaces, with locally abundant pollen grains, and springtails. The microbes are the templates for much of the opaline silica precipitation and thereby controlled most of the fabrics that form the stalactite laminae. Siliceous stalactites form at sites of dripping water below the overhanging edges of geyserite rims that surround geyser vents, and along the steep margins of sinter terraces on discharge aprons. Stalactites may hang as isolated individuals or may coalesce to form dripstone draperies along terrace or rim margins. Stalactite growth is controlled by the volume, temperature, and the silica concentration of the water supplied to the growth site. These waters mainly originate from geyser or hot spring discharge. The microbes preserved in the stalactites, however, imply that silica precipitation took place after these waters had cooled. The growth and coalescence of geyser stalactites to form complex dripstone draperies plays an important role in the lateral accretion of sinter around the rims of many geysers and in progradation of sinter terraces.
40606508|A systematic, semiquantitative measurement of intensity of euendolithic microbioerosion aids in understanding the interactions between microorganisms and basalt glass. These interactions are important because they occur widely in ocean basins and lead to incongruent dissolution of glass. No semiquantitative method currently exists for measuring euendolithic microbioerosion. We modify the ichnofabric index (ii of Droser and Bottjer, 1986) to the microendolithic ichnofabric index (MII), a scaleindependent, orientation-independent, semiquantitative classification scheme specifically for euendolithic microborings in volcanic glass, but applicable to any medium. Material used to develop the MII comes from the phase one core, Hawaii Scientific Drilling Project #2 well and ranges in age from ~ 636 to 413 ka. Microtubular features in the glass are linear or curvilinear, ~ 0.5-2 m in diameter, 1 m to > 100 m long, and originate from the margins of glass fragments found in hyaloclastites and pillow lavas. Standard categories of the ii were modified to address the circumstances of the microborings. Percent disruption of primary fabric is the basis of the Mil rather than percent disruption of bedding. Six categories are used ranging from no (MII = 1) to complete disruption (MII = 6). Modification of the ii extends the measuring scale of bioerosion to near the minimum size range for trace fossils. By extension, MII can be used for any traces that penetrate the associated medium, from microbial borings to dinosaur footprints, if the ratio of measurement length to diameter of the traces is ~ 30:1.
10.2307/3514643|Fresh-water diatoms are present in coal, and tonsteins (altered volcanic ash) are interbedded with the coal, in the Miocene Venado Formation on the southwest margin of the Limon Basin, in Provincia Alajuela, northern Costa Rica. The Venado Formation is composed of more than 300 m of mudstone, siltstone, sandstone, limestone, volcaniclastics, and coal beds. The coal beds are of unknown lateral extent and mainly occur in the middle part of the formation. The Pataste coal bed occurs near the middle of the formation and is divided into three parts by two tonstein layers. The abundance of biogenic opaline material (diatoms) in the coal is believed to be a direct response to an influx of silica from volcanic tuffs that later altered to the tonsteins. Diatoms are a useful microscopic tool for identifying the depositional environments of the Pataste coal deposit. The diatoms identified include Aulacosira ambigua, Pinnularia sp., Eunotia spp., and Achnanthes exigua, among others. The abundance of Aulacosira ambigua suggests that an open-water lacustrine environment was present locally. Achnanthes exigua and the remaining diatom species are benthic forms that lived in shallow fresh-water to slightly acidic swamp environments. The different types of diatoms found in the coal indicate that swamp environments were intermixed with lacustrine environments during the formation of the peat deposit or that the coal records environmental changes through time.
10.2307/3515150|Implant studies employing crinoid ossicles have been initiated at Friday Harbor Laboratories, Washington, in order to assess the rates and sequences of skeletal carbonate biodegradation in a temperate regime. The design of the implants is construed in an attempt to control for environmental variables. Diatoms are the most conspicuous infesting epiphytes encountered in all skeletal plates subjected to solar energy, and exposed to ambient water movement and sedimentation in the three distinct subtidal microenvironments investigated. Previous investigators have attributed biodegradation in carbonate-undersaturated regimes to diatoms. However, preliminary scanning electron microscope (SEM) examination of crinoid ossicles deployed for 10 days demonstrate that diatoms may actually serve as armor against dissolution. Differences in infestation among microenvironments within the same subtidal regime are controlled, at least in part, by environmental variables. Infestation is ranked and classified according to the actual percentage of original substrata which has been covered. Seven stages, or infestation indexes, have been established based on percentage of cover and on visual recognition of similarities of pattern ranging from minimal infestation to an almost complete envelopment of the original substrata by the infesting microbes. On offshore subtidal sediment-water interfaces, infestation of skeletal carbonates is primarily controlled by exposure to solar energy and, to a lesser extent, by the energy of the enveloping water. Degree of infestation generally increases with increasing water movement. However, in a nearshore subtidal microenvironment, the degree of infestation of unprotected substrata is comparatively low, owing to excessive water movement. Infestation of substrata by diatoms in this setting is overall more extensive than in the offshore microenvironments. These variations may have important implications for the relative preservation potentials of skeletal carbonates.
27670392|A quantitative study based on unionoid bivalve presence-absence data, species abundance, shell morphology, and sedimentological data provides a more detailed paleoecological interpretation of the Upper Cretaceous Hell Creek Formation. The Proparreysis and the Pleurobema faunal assemblages can be separated on the basis of taxonomic diversity and species composition. While the first consists of 19 species, including trigonal and elongate shell morphologies, the latter consists of only 3 species characterized by elongate shells. A riverine environment is interpreted for most species from the quantitative analysis of shell morphology. Only one species (cf. Pleiodon sp.) is from a lacustrine habitat. The main river channels of the Hell Creek paleodrainage system are the habitat of bivalves of the Proparreysia assemblage through a combined interpretation of the morphology and diversity data. In contrast, the bivalves of the Pleurobema assemblage are from secondary channels and tributaries of the main river channels. The mode of deposition of the two assemblages is very similar, as they are preserved predominantly in crevasse-splay deposits. The long-term ecosystem stability, high habitat heterogeneity, and a variable degree in floodplain connectivity of the habitats in the midreach of the Hell Creek paleodrainage system resulted in the high taxonomic diversity of the unionoid bivalves and the separation of the unionoid faunal assemblages.
10.2307/3515103|The maceral and palynological composition of the C coal bed (Upper Cretaceous), central Utah, was significantly affected by the periodic deposition of volcanic ash in the precursor peat mire. The coal bed contains four altered volcanic ash partings (tonsteins). Sixty-seven coal and rock samples from 10 cores of the coal bed were examined for maceral composition, and 163 coal and rock samples from 10 cores were analyzed for palynological composition. Abundant semifusinite (an inertinite maceral with a poorly preserved cell structure and a light gray reflectance) is found in coal samples directly below the upper tonstein, the thickest (30-40 cm thick) of the tonstein partings. We suggest that (1) the pH of the water in the peat mire increased after deposition of the volcanic ash, creating an environment favorable to the formation of degradosemifusinite precursors (precursors to semifusinite that have a non-fire origin) by microbial activity, or that (2) chemicals from the volcanic ash, such as sulfuric acid, aided in the formation of a charred vegetation. We infer that deposition of the volcanic ash produced an environment conducive to the growth of ferns, as indicated by spores of pteridophytes that are found to be more abundant in samples directly above (in contact with) the upper tonstein than in samples directly below the upper tonstein. However, pteridophytes are also found in abundance in other areas of the coal bed; the growth of these pteridophytes is probably a result of hydrologic changes in the peat mire unrelated to volcanic activity. We suggest that leaching of the volcanic ash created a semi-impermeable layer, which caused the ponding of surface water. This hypothesis is supported by (1) elevated levels of the Sphagnaceae/Zygnemataceae group in shale or coal samples directly above tonsteins, (2) high levels of several macerals in shale samples directly above the upper tonstein: vitrodetrinite (a maceral defined as a fragment of a vitrinite maceral), inertodetrinite (a maceral defined as a fragment of an inertinite maceral), several liptinite macerals (sporinite, cutinite, and attrital resinite) that are concentrated during degradation due to their greater resistance to decay, bituminite (a liptinite maceral that may form as a decomposition product of organic material), and (3) abundant gelocollinite (a maceral defined as structureless groundmass material that formed from strongly decomposed plant parts) in coal samples directly above tonsteins in the coal bed.
40606493|An analysis of five Holocene sediment cores from Belize atoll lagoons has revealed a possible mass mortality of the Caribbean sea urchins Diadema antillarum and Echinometra sp. during 6400-6100,4000, and 1300 yr BP. Event layers were identified by quantifying echinoid fragments in Holocene sediments. Peaks of echinoid abundance were dated radiometrically. There are two explanations for the fact that echinoderm-rich layers cannot be correlated among the three atoll lagoons. First, die out was not as widespread as the 1983-84 event that led to mass mortality of Diadema in the Caribbean. Possibly, local environmental transitions in lagoonal circulation patterns and changes in temperature and precipitation in the study area were responsible for echinoid mass mortality in the Holocene of Belize. Second, echinoid mass mortality is not necessarily implied in the composition of contemporaneous reef sediments. Comparable studies on Holocene corals in the area also suggest that turnover events have repeatedly occurred during the past several thousand years, however, recent events were unprecedented in their significance. Potential limitations of this study refer to taphonomic bias as imposed by callianassid shrimp burrowing.
3515654|The framebuilding fauna of an Early Silurian (Aeronian, Llandoverian), Brassfield Formation reef from west-central Ohio is examined in detail. Brassfield reefs are among the very few Silurian reefs of the midcontinental United States that are not dolomitized. Species-level taxa identified in the framebuilding fauna include two favositid corals, two proporid corals, two halysitid corals, two colonial rugosan corals, and at least four stromatoporoids. Favositids, halysitids, crinoid holdfasts, and bryozoans are distributed fairly evenly across the reef; colonial rugosans and solitary rugosans are more abundant along the windward side of the reef; and stromatoporoids are more abundant on the leeward side. The Brassfield reef fauna resembles that from the Jupiter Formation (Aeronian), Anticosti Island, and the Manitoulin Formation (Aeronian), Manitoulin Island; however, there are differences in total diversity and composition. Paleogeographic positioning, local water depth, and access to open-ocean circulation are inferred as reasons for the differences among the Aeronian reefs.
27670394|The Yakataga Formation contains mudstones, sandstones, and diamictites that represent fluctuating marine and glaciomarine deposition in the Gulf of Alaska since the latest Miocene. These rocks contain distinctive benthic foraminiferal assemblages that provide insight into the depositional, structural, and climatic history of the north-eastern Pacific Ocean. Qualitative analyses of benthic foraminiferal distribution patterns have been used previously to define eight stratigraphic sequences in the offshore Yakataga Formation. Results of multivariate quantitative methods are presented here to provide additional insight into the nature of foraminiferal faunas and to demonstrate the potential for using quantitative methods in sequence biostratigraphy. Cluster and polytopic vector analyses of 158 samples from the offshore Yakataga Formation indicate distinct mixtures of foraminiferal faunas within the samples. Polytopic vector analysis suggests that samples contain mixtures of seven end members representing the neritic through bathyal environments: EM1: Elphidium excavatum clavatum biofacies (inner neritic); EM2: Epistominella pacifica biofacies (upper bathyal and middle bathyal); EM3: sharp-margined Cassidulina spp. biofacies (outer neritic); EM4: round-margined Cassidulina spp. biofacies (outer neritic); EM5: Cassidulina californica biofacies (outer neritic); EM6: Uvigerina ex gr. peregrina biofacies (upper to middle bathyal); and EM7: Haplophragmoides spp. biofacies (outer neritic through upper bathyal). Identification of several outer neritic biofacies indicates heterogeneity within this environment, probably due to differences in substrates and nutrient levels. Mixing of biofacies is primarily due to downslope transport of faunas across the shelf and slope and may also be the result of constriction of environmental zones due to advances of the tidewater glacier margins across the shelf.
40606520|Burrow-wall micromorphologies produced by nine different intertidal invertebrates were characterized by scanning electron microscopy. Minimally disturbed burrows and host sediment associated with Hetero mastus filiformis, Saccoglossus bromophenolosus, Corophium volutator, Clymenella sp., Phoronopsis viridis, Cirriformia luxuriosa, Arenicola marina, Nereis virens, and Upogebia pugettensis were collected from various locales along the western coast of Washington and California. Scanning electron micrographs show several unique sedimentary characteristics present in the burrow lining of each invertebrate. Three traitsgrain orientation and grain-size distribution, the nature of the mucus lining, and the presence of wall sculptureappear significant in describing the microscale burrow lining. In several burrow types, the burrow structure was distinguishable from the matrix by changes in the modal grain size and sorting of the burrow-wall sediment. Variations in the type of packingcubic versus rhombohedral packingbetween the burrow and sediment often accompanied grain-size variations. In addition to the alterations to grain distribution and orientation, most burrows surveyed showed mucus-stabilized walls. The style of the mucus secretionglobules, threads, or ribbonsand the resultant structuresmooth blankets or woven matsused to stabilize the burrow wall can characterize burrow linings. Wall sculpture (microbioglyphs or microsurficial morphology) was observed rarely but when present was highly distinctive of Corophium volutator burrow linings. The observed variation in burrow-wall micromorphologies provides evidence of trace-maker behavior, burrow-preservation potential, and sediment diagenesis.
10.2307/3515096|Late Permian reefs of the Capitan complex, west Texas; the Magnesian Limestone, England; Chuenmuping reef, south China; and elsewhere contain anomalously large volumes of aragonite and calcite marine cements and seafloor crusts, as well as abundant microbial precipitates. These components strongly influenced reef growth and may have been responsible for the construction of rigid, open reefal frames in which bryozoans and sponges became encrusted and structurally reinforced. In some cases, such as the upper biostrome of the Magnesian Limestone, precipitated microbialites and inorganic crusts were the primary constituents of the reef core. These microbial and inorganic reefs do not have modern marine counterparts; on the contrary, their textures and genesis are best understood through comparison with the older rock record, particularly that of the early Precambrian. Early Precambrian reefal facies are interpreted to have formed in a stratified ocean with anoxic deep waters enriched in carbonate alkalinity. Upwelling mixed deep and surface waters, resulting in massive seafloor precipitation of aragonite and calcite. During Mesoproterozoic and early Neoproterozoic time, the ocean became more fully oxidized, and seafloor carbonate precipitation was significantly reduced. However, during the late Neoproterozoic, sizeable volumes of deep ocean water once again became anoxic for protracted intervals; the distinctive "cap carbonates" found above Neoproterozoic tillites attest to renewed upwelling of anoxic bottom water enriched in carbonate alkalinity and <sup>12</sup>C. Anomalous late Permian seafloor precipitates are interpreted as the product, at least in part, of similar processes. Massive carbonate precipitation was favored by: 1) reduced shelf space for carbonate precipitation, 2) increased flux of Ca to the oceans during increased continental erosion, 3) deep basinal anoxia that generated upwelling waters with elevated alkalinities, and 4) further evolution of ocean water in the restricted Delaware, Zechstein, and other basins. Temporal coincidence of these processes resulted in surface seawater that was greatly supersaturated by Phanerozoic standards and whose only precedents occurred in Precambrian oceans.
27670405|Over 14,000 specimens5,204 brachiopods, 9,137 bivalves, and 178 gastropodsacquired from 30 collecting stations (0 to 45 m depth) in the Ubatuba and Picinguaba bays, southern Brazil, were compared for drilling frequencies. Beveled (countersunk) circular-to-subcircular borings (Oichnus-like drill holes) were found in diverse bivalves but also in the rhynchonelliform brachiopod Bouchardia roseaa small, semi-infaunal to epifaunal, free-lying species that dominates the brachiopod fauna of the southern Brazilian shelf. Drill holes in bivalve mollusks and brachiopods are comparable in their morphology, average diameter, and diameter range, indicating attacks by a single type of drilling organism. Drill holes in brachiopods were rare (0.4%) and found only at five sampling sites. Drillings in bivalves were over 10 times as frequent as in brachiopods, but the average drilling frequency was still low (5.6%) compared to typical boring frequencies of Cenozoic mollusks. Some common bivalve species, however, were drilled at frequencies up to 50 times higher than those observed for shells of B. rosea from the same samples. Due to scarcity of drilled brachiopods, it is not possible to evaluate if the driller displayed a nonrandom (stereotyped) site, size, or valve preference. Drilled brachiopods may record (1) naticid or muricid predation, (2) predation by other drillers, (3) parasitic drillings, and (4) mistaken or opportunistic attacks. Low drilling frequency in brachiopods is consistent with recent reports on ancient and modern examples. The scarcity of drilling in brachiopods, coupled with much higher drilling frequencies observed in sympatric bivalves, suggests that drilling in brachiopods may have been due to facultative or erroneous attacks. The drilling frequencies observed here for the brachiopod-bivalve assemblages are remarkably similar to those reported for Permian brachiopod-bivalves associations. This report adds to the growing evidence for an intriguing macroecological stasis: multiple meta-analytical surveys of present-day and fossil rhynchonelliform brachiopods conducted in recent years also point to persistent scarcity and low intensity of biotic interactions between brachiopods and drilling organisms throughout their evolutionary history.
27670321|An interdisciplinary approach was used to investigate the facies and paleogeography of the Lower Devonian sedimentary sequence of the Alken quarry, Mosel Valley, Germany. This 87-m-thick sequence consists of stratified sandstones and sandy shales of the Nellenkpfchen Formation (upper-most Lower Emsian). Previous interpretations of the depositional environment include terrestrial, deltaic, and shallow-marine settings. Two distinct fossiliferous units contain abundant terrestrial plant remains and a diverse mixed terrestrial to marine fauna. Physical sedimentary structures are common throughout, whereas bioturbation is restricted mostly to the fossiliferous intervals. Erosional surfaces frequently separate the beds. Aside from ripple cross-stratification and parallel bedding, longitudinal inclined stratification is most common. Channel-fill structures are less frequent. Scour-and-fill structures exhibit marked disconformities of irregular shape on a smaller scale (dm). Mud-pebble lags at the base of laterally prograding cross-bedded layers, scour-and-fill structures, and drainage rills characterize the upper part of the section. Desiccation cracks, wind-induced striation, and water-level marks occur more sporadically in the exposure. The sedimentary structures and the paleontological information indicate a marine to brackish depositional environment that frequently was emergent. The presence of conspicuous channel-related structures reflects intertidal conditions along the coastal region of a presumed Hunsrck Island/Archipelago. Lagoons and estuaries were bordered by extended tidal flats, in which migrating channels frequently occurred. Terrestrial plant remains, however, indicate a position at the land/sea interface, which was characterized by a complex configuration of different environments. The accumulation of concentrated plant material may have been related to distinct meteorological events such as hurricanes.
3514679|Dinosaur remains have been recovered from six localities in the uppermost part of the Hell Creek Formation, McCone County, Montana, which on the basis of stratigraphic placement and contained fossil pollen can be shown to be of Paleocene age. This modifies the argument that an extraterrestrial impact event at the Cretaceous / Tertiary (K/T) boundary caused dinosaur extinction (L. W. Alvarez et al., 1984; Alvarez et al., 1980). The occurrence of dinosaurs in sediments younger than the Cretaceous/Tertiary boundary (Rigby, 1985; Rigby and Sloan, 1985; Sloan et al., 1986; and others) supports the argument that dinosaurs survived the impact event.
10.2307/3515360|A variety of sedimentary structures and patterns in Proterozoic siliciclastic sedimentary rocks cannot be explained by known inorganic processes. In particular, certain bed-surface textures, and domed and disrupted sand lamination, are demonstrably the mechanical products of microbially bound sediment and microbial mats. In all but the most wave and current active marine environments of the terminal Proterozoic, the absence of effective grazing and burrowing allowed mat-communities of cyanobacteria to colonize sedimentary surfaces. The resultant microbial mats inhibited sediment erosion, formed partings when buried between sand beds, and restricted vertical migration of pore fluid and gas in both exposed and subaqueous environments. Distinctive 'petee' laminations, known from modern mat-bound, tidal-flat sediments, are recorded for the first time in the rock record from the terminal Proterozoic Rawnsley Quartzite of South Australia. The preservation of external molds of soft-bodied Ediacaran organisms is interpreted as a function of the early diagenesis of a sole veneer. A form of 'death mask' resulted from bacterial precipitation of iron minerals in the sand that smothered decaying microbial mats and megascopic benthic organisms. The appearance of three-dimensional trace fossils in Early Cambrian strata signaled a behavioral revolution; the evolution of efficient grazing reduced the development of benthic mat communities in all but the most extreme environments, while bioturbation disrupted buried mats and closed a taphonomic window of preservation for soft-bodied organisms.
3515084|The study of biogenic structures in cores is hampered by the facts that the structures are generally exposed only on vertical surfaces, and that the area available for study is limited by typically small core diameter. Computed tomography (CT) gives a three-dimensional picture by producing a series of bedding-parallel sections. It thus provides a technique that gleans the maximum information possible from the limited volume of sediment without destroying the core. Enhanced images of beddingparallel traces in cores of unconsolidated sediments in CT images will facilitate the comparison of traces in modern and ancient deep-sea deposits. This comparison has been limited previously by the fact that horizontal traces, which are dominant in deep-water deposits, are poorly expressed on conventional vertically oriented X-radiographs of unconsolidated sediments. The detailed serial sectioning of cores by CT will also allow reconstruction of the tiering relationships of deep-water trace producers.
27670565|Purple to violet colored millericrinids (Crinoidea) are described from the lower Kimmeridgian of the Maogoszcz quarry, Holy Cross Mountains, Poland. By chemical analysis using high-performance liquid chromatography, ultraviolet/visible spectroscopy, and mass spectrometry, the organic compounds were characterized as a homologous series of hypericinoid pigments ranging from C28H12O8 (fringelite F) to C36H28O8. The results indicate that hypericinoid pigments were more widespread in millericrinids than previously known. The presence of new hypericin derivatives in the fossil crinoids with characteristic alkyl side chains shows that Mesozoic hypericinoid pigments were closely related to recent crinoidal pigments.
10.2307/3515315|Sedimentological and radiochemical investigations of sediments in <tex-math>$Eckernf\uml {o}rde$</tex-math> Bay were coordinated with observations of benthic biology and benthic-boundary-layer dynamics to identify processes influencing the formation of preserved sedimentary fabric. The bay is a trap for fine sediments because of its fjord-like basin geometry and hydrodynamic regime. Sediments are derived from both local sources (transported by winter storms) and sources in adjacent Kiel Bight (fair-weather transport of suspended sediment by internal waves). In the central basin of the bay, strata consist of pelletized, clay-rich beds and silty laminations, and reflect the interaction of bioturbation with alternating fair-weather and storm-associated sediment transport and deposition. Sediment-accumulation rates in the central basin of the bay are ~0.39 cm/yr (from <sup>210</sup>Pb geochronology). Results from a numerical model, as well as study of X-radiographs and accumulation rates, indicate that fair-weather processes contribute 0.15 cm/yr of time-averaged sediment accumulation, and the remaining 0.24 cm/yr is contributed by storm-generated deposition. Seasonal oxygen depletion restricts the benthic community to a pioneer assemblage of small-bodied, deposit-feeding polychaetes and bivalves. Excess <sup>234</sup>Th analyses indicate that bioturbation is restricted to the upper 1 cm of the seabed. Macrofaunal feeding activity produces abundant ovoid fecal pellets and biogenic microfabric in beds deposited under fair-weather conditions. In contrast, primary depositional fabric is preserved as laminations when storm deposits thicker than the depth of bioturbation disrupt biological communities.
10.2307/3514678|Exposures of the Hell Creek and Tullock formations in eastern Montana and the Ludlow Formation in western North Dakota allow detailed reconstruction of the paleoenvironments associated with the Cretaceous-Paleogene (K-P) faunal transition in the Western Interior of North America. Paleoenvironments were reconstructed from five facies: 1) a cross-stratified sandstone facies interpreted as a fluvial channel environment; 2) a siltstone facies interpreted as flood-plain environments; 3) a facies of epsilon cross-stratification inferred to represent point-bar deposition; 4) a facies of organic accumulation, interpreted to reflect peat deposition; and 5) a variegated siltstone fades, interpreted as the remnant of extensive ponded deposits. Facies associations demonstrate an ancient meandering fluvial environment in which gleization in unstable, poorly drained flood plains modified incipient soils. Sedimentologic and pedologic features indicate that concurrent with the faunal transition that occurred in the region, the amount of standing water increased dramatically, changing the earliest Paleogene soils and landscape. Depositional environment imposes taphonomic constraints on interpretations of K-P faunas and floras. Contrary to recent reports, fossil assemblages in Hell Creek channel deposits are reworked; bone and sediment clasts of the channel fills have been subject to traction transport. Age estimations based on supposedly unreworked fossils in channel deposits are thus unreliable. The chronostratigraphic resolution of the sediments under study is to date simply not comparable to the resolution required by researchers of the K-P boundary.
10.2307/3514722|Oxygen isotopes can record water depth changes because of the relationship between depth and temperature, and ice volume changes by its relation to the isotopic composition of sea water. Because of this, oxygen isotopes provide an excellent means of studying the conditions responsible for the formation of cyclical sedimentary deposits in the late Paleozoic. We have determined the isotope stratigraphy of two late Pennsylvanian units in north Texas, the Necessity Shale and the Colony Creek Shale, after having carried out detailed studies of the depositional environments and fossil biotas in these units. Isotope data were obtained from fibrous calcite in the shells of the brachiopod Crurithyris planoconvexa, which is present throughout both shales. Preservation of original isotopic composition in fibrous calcite is indicated by preservation of original shell microstructure, absence of cathodoluminescence, low iron and manganese concentrations, and high sulfur concentration within shells. Thes characters were determined by plain light and cathodoluminescence microscopy, microprobe, and SEM-EDS. In contrast, prismatic calcite from the outer shell layer and some outer margins of the fibrous shell layer are diagenetically altered. This alteration is recognized by visible cathodoluminescence, high iron and manganese concentrations, and low sulfur concentration. The two cycles studied can be divided into as many as four depth zones based on sedimentology, fossil biota, and position within transgressive and regressive sequence. From shallowest to deepest, they are the myalinid zone, fusulinid zone, ammonoid zone, and gondolellid zone. The deepest faunal zone, defined by the occurrence of the conodont Gondolella, correlates with the maximum <sup>18</sup>O in the fibrous calcite of C. planoconvexa. This indicates that the <sup>18</sup>O of the brachiopods is recording a decrease in temperature associated with deepening of water, and that temperature effects are the major component of the oxygen isotopic signal present in the cycles. Using modern tropical ocean temperature profiles as an analogue for interpretation of the <sup>18</sup>O stratigraphy, the depth change estimated for deposition of the Necessity cycle in the Brownwood area of Texas is at least 70 m.
10.2307/3514919|A general deterioration of terrestrial climate took place during middle Eocene to earliest Oligocene time in southern California, based on evidence of sedimentary features, vertebrate fossils, and fossil pollen, and in the Gulf Coast, based on evidence of plant megafossils and fossil pollen. Pollen data, calibrated by calcareous nannofossil ages, indicate four events of rapid floral and/or vegetational change among angiosperms during this time interval. The events can be correlated between the two regions even though these regions lay within different floristic provinces, and each event of angiosperm change is interpreted to indicate a pulse of rapid climatic shift. The most distinct of these events is the Middle Eocene Diversity Decline, which resulted from a peak in last appearances (extinctions, emigrations) centered in the early Bartonian.
10.2307/3515195|The chambered shells of cephalopods have inspired scientists for over 3 centuries. However some of these imaginative interpretations, of both historical and more recent vintage, have proved to be "red herrings", distracting, or having the potential to distract, researchers from more fruitful avenues of inquiry. The gas pressure hypothesis of Hooke is the original granddaddy of the cephalopodous red herrings. More modern red herrings include the decoupling hypothesis originated by Denton and Gilpin-Brown (1966), the use of historical straw men by Saunders (1995) and the cartesian diver hypothesis of Seilacher and LaBarbera (1995). These last two, in that they are relatively new, have yet to significantly mislead. Herein this list will be explored in order of publication, the gas pressure hypothesis first and the cartesian diver notion last.
40606444|The drainage system of the Granada Basin in southern Spain has evolved from endorheic to exorheic since the basin emerged and became continental in the latest Tortonian (late Miocene). The age of implementation for the recent exorheic, east-west drainage can now be identified by small mammal dating. This drainage configuration began in the latest Pliocene-earliest Pleistocene due to the capture of the Genii River by a Cacn River tributary. It represented an important change in the behavior of the basin and therefore in the geomorphology, as depositional forms and processes were replaced by erosive ones. While the basin was endorheic, sedimentation was active throughout the basin. Afterward the change to exorheic and up to the present, erosion dominates and sedimentation occurs only in some small, fault-controlled depositional depocenters.
10.2307/3515234|The Rajang River and its delta accumulate siliciclastic sediments and dispersed organic matter within river and tidal channels as rhythmically stratified sand, silt, and organic drapes. These deposits were vibracored and subsampled, resulting in a data set composed of 84 samples taken from 45 cores. Palynofacies preparations of this sediment facies were examined from throughout the alluvial valley and delta to determine if a single organic matter assemblage characterized these deposits. An underlying assumption of palynofacies analyses in ancient transitional settings is that each lithofacies or depositional environment is characterized by a specific organic matter (OM) assemblage. This specific hypothesis is not supported by the present investigation. However, the present investigation has demonstrated that the resultant dispersed OM assemblages within a single sediment facies is heavily influenced by the geochemistry of the system. Three distinct palynofacies assemblages in this data set have been identified using nonparametric and multivariate statistical analyses. One assemblage, characterized by high amounts of Heterogenous and Homogenous (mainly dammar) Unstructured OM, moderate amounts of Structured OM and Finely Dispersed Unstructured OM, and low amounts of Black Indeterminate OM, is restricted to depositional sites that are principally found in freshwater settings. The second assemblage, characterized by the highest quantities of Heterogenous Unstructured OM and Indeterminate Black and the least amount of Finely Dispersed Unstructured OM, is found in channels of the lower delta plain. The distribution of this palynofacies assemblage conforms to the limit of saline influence during the wet season. The third group, characterized by the highest quantitative amount of Finely Dispersed Unstructured OM, is found either in barforms or in black-water tidal channels that are sediment starved. These results indicate that OM assemblages preserved in a single sediment facies characteristic of transitional zones vary in response to the abiotic processes operating within the system.
10.2307/3514641|The Paleocene Tongue River Member of the Fort Union Formation in the Powder River Basin, Wyoming, was deposited in meandering and anastomosed fluvial environments. In swamps associated with the meandering-fluvial environment, thick coals (e.g., Anderson coal) accumulated, and in swamps associated with the anastomosed-fluvial environment, thin coals (e.g., Smith coal) accumulated. Integrated palynologic and sedimentologic analyses of the Anderson and Smith coals and their associated sediments enhance our understanding of their environments of deposition. The Anderson coal accumulated as thick peat in a raised swamp that was above the local fluvial drainage level and relatively free of detrital influx. The Anderson coal swamp was vegetated by a forest of trees related to Glyptostrobus and broadleaf plants whose distribution was governed by the local drainage patterns on the swamp and differential decay and accumulation of organic material. The presence nearby of a channel-levee system is recognized palynologically by the identification of pollen of riparian plants such as Pterocarya. The Smith coals accumulated as thin peats in low-lying swamps that began development marginal to flood-basin lakes and eventually encroached over the lakes. Frequent and rapid episodes of detrital influx curtailed peat accumulation. The Smith coal swamp was vegetated by a low-statured herbaceous vegetation in which Sphagnum was prominent, but later, with organic accumulation, a swamp forest consisting of plants similar to those of the Anderson coal swamp developed and replaced the herbaceous component.
20173033|The Upper Ordovician (Caradoc) Collingwood Member of the Lindsay Formation, southern Ontario, Canada, is a strikingly cyclic package of clastics and carbonates. Cycles are 50-150 cm thick and comprise four major components: (1) dark gray to black, organic-rich, laminated shales that grade upsection into (2) dark to light gray calcareous shales or mudstones, (3) lenticular to tabular concretionary argillaceous limestones, and typically (4) light gray calcareous, fossiliferous mudstones or shales and marls. Black shale units have a characteristically sharp basal contact and overlie a condensed shelly pavement. Fossil in shales are preserved as pavements or stringers of trilobite, ostracode, and brachiopod debris, with strong taphonomic bias as a result of prolonged exposure at the sediment-water interface. Gray mudstones and marls are bioturbated and contain numerous low-diversity orthid brachiopod pavements. Persistent tabular concretionary limestone bands were formed by early diagenetic cementation. These concretionary units include shelly beds that alternate with less fossiliferous calcareous mudstones containing non-compressed, spar-filled burrows and articulated, sometimes in situ fossils. Variation in fossil abundance is the result of cyclic variation in sedimentation, ranging from periods of condensation to rapid burial. Collingwood cycles involve upsection changes including: (1) benthic oxygenation from lower dysoxic to fully oxic biofacies, (2) increased frequency and episodicity of sedimentation, (3) higher net sedimentation rate within gray mudstone to carbonate intervals, (4) increased environmental energy level, and (5) diagenetic cementation of muds a few centimeters below cycle tops. Consistency of these variations suggests an allocyclic mechanism for the Collingwood cycles related to short-term fluctuations in eustatic sea level or climate.
27670598|Dinosaur tracks and trackways yield invaluable information as to the identity, size, and gait of the trackmaker and the conditions of the media (=substrate) it traversed. Correctly interpreting tracks requires consideration of their three-dimensional morphology. Laboratory-controlled simulations were conducted to investigate the subsurface track morphology formed from differently shaped feet, as the shape of the footprint deteriorates with depth. A circular, triangular, and a tridactyl dinosaur foot-shaped template, or indenter, were indented vertically into two types of sand, with four moisture contentsdry, 10%, 20%, and saturated. The morphology of all three indenters was preserved most accurately in the moist sand. Tracks in dry and saturated sand were distorted by a greater degree of media deformation. Digit imprints of tridactyl tracks were only clearly discernible in near-surface layers and were deformed by shear zones or inward movement of sediment in dry and saturated sand. The long digits of the template produced the greatest degree of outward displacement, and tracks became wider with depth and deepest in the heel region. This was most distinct in dry sand, where extensive shear zones in cross section demonstrated the outward and upward movement of sediment. All tracks in saturated sand were characterized by considerable downward displacement of sediment and features related to the upward pull of sediment as the templates were withdrawn. These diagnostic features allow vertebrate tracks to be differentiated from nonbiogenic, soft-sediment deformation. Fossil tracks studied from the Middle Jurassic succession of the Cleveland Basin, Yorkshire, demonstrate affinities to the experimental tracks formed in saturated sand.
3515776|A previously undescribed carbonate-shrub facies has been discovered in the lower member of the Noonday Dolomitea-Neoproterozoic post-glacial cap carbonate. This unusual facies consists of centimeter-scale structures composed of micrite and encased in early-marine cement, and exhibits an overall clotted, mottled appearance. Shrub architecture is characterized by occurrence of a central stalk with diverging branches that are composed of micrite leaves. A combination of biological, environmental, and diagenetic influences contributed to the growth and present appearance of Noonday Dolomite carbonate shrubs. Comparison with modern and ancient known abiogenic and biogenic shrub-like structures indicates that microbial communities were most likely responsible for at least localizing and initiating calcium carbonate growth in the Noonday Dolomite shrubs, although no undisputable microbial fossils have yet been discovered. Diagenetic processes may have obliterated Noonday Dolomite shrub microstructure and obscured any former fossil evidence. Unusual seawater conditions (high alkalinity/extreme calcium carbonate supersaturation) were vital for shrub growth. This research highlights a possible biologic component in Neoproterozoic post-glacial cap carbonates where most studies have focused on abiogenic processes.
25835636|The Ingersoll shale (Santonian) is a small mudstone lens in eastern Alabama, interpreted as an abandoned tidal-channel fill that accumulated rapidly within the lower reaches of a bayhead delta. The diverse biota found in this fossil Lagersttte includes 14 individual feather specimens, the largest collection known from the Mesozoic of North America. Occurring separately throughout nearly the entire thickness of the clay lens and with a range of sizes and morphologies, the feathers most likely represent a number of theropod species. Based on known taxa in the region, the largest specimen (16.5 cm) may be a rectrix (tail feather) from a dromaeosaurid dinosaur or from a hesperornithid. Smaller feathers may have belonged to a range of shore birds. The best-preserved specimens were found in the finest grained intervals. SEM examination reveals very well preserved microstructure consisting of carbonized rod-shaped bodies 1 m in length, preserved in three dimensions and solid internally. Although identical in size and shape to modern feather-degrading bacilliform bacteria and displaying some bacteria-like features, their alignment along the axis of feather structures indicates that they are more likely the fossil remains of melanosomes, melanin bodies used for color production during life. No three-dimensional arrays or patterned differences of morphotypes have been seen thus far; almost all elements are elongate (apparently eumelanin). Inferred colors for four of the feathers, based on differences in melanosome morphologies, range from gray and brownish gray to black. Whereas the majority of feather-bearing deposits represent inland lakes, the estuarine setting adds a view of coastal feathered theropods preserved in detail by rapid deposition of fine-grained sediment.
10.2307/3515167|Examination of recently reported K/P boundary sections indicates that the placement of the K/P boundary is based on equivocal criteria and that the boundary as placed is not synchronous. The conclusion that the K/P boundary in several U.S. Gulf Coast sections is complete and within a condensed section is simply the artifact of delineating the K/P boundary on disparate paleontologic datum planes and preservational bias of the microfossil assemblages. The upper slope and outer shelf sections at El Kef, Gredero, and Agost as well as the DSDP Site 577 section are continuous. The non-separation of Zone PO at some deep sea sites is due to very low sedimentation rates and the short time interval of Zone PO. All Late Cretaceous planktonic foraminiferal species in the boundary sections included in this study, except Guembelitria cretacea Cushman, Hedbergella monmouthensis (Olsson) and H. holmdelensis Olsson, became extinct at the end of the Late Cretaceous. Species population ratios and species ranges in six K/P boundary sequences of different stratigraphic settings indicate that all other Cretaceous species occurring in the lower Paleocene are reworked specimens. Consequently, the loss of planktonic foraminifera at the end of the Cretaceous is extremely heavy. The stepwise extinction of Keller (1988, 1989) and the "foreshadowed" Late Cretaceous extinction and prolonged Paleocene extinctions proposed by Brinkhuis and Zachariasse (1988) are due to equivocal placement of the K/P boundary and treatment of reworked Cretaceous species occurring in the lower Paleocene as survivor species. The terminal Cretaceous mass extinction is most likely a geologically instantaneous single event which eliminated many groups of organisms. As for planktonic foraminifera, 50 out of 53 species became extinct at the end of Cretaceous. Only 3 species survived the mass extinction event and were the stem forms for the subsequent radiation of all Paleocene planktonic foraminifera.
10.2307/3515107|Comparison of secular variations in carbon-isotopic compositions of carbonates from the Neoproterozoic-Cambrian succession in the White-Inyo region of eastern California with similarly-aged sequences worldwide suggests that, in California, a hiatus potentially encompassing the latest Neoproterozoic and much of the Tommotian may be present. The hiatus is found between the carbonate units in the Lower Deep Spring Formation, suggesting that the lowermost Deep Spring, Reed, and Wyman formations are Neoproterozoic in age, and the remaining Deep Spring Formation is uppermost Tommotian or Atdabanian in age. It is unclear where the Neoproterozoic-Cambrian boundary may lie, since chemostratigraphic data is not available for the boundary in Newfoundland type section, but it is most-likely encompassed within the inferred hiatus. Studies calculating "similarity coefficients" of the North American fossils to determine the relative separation of Neoproterozoic-Cambrian continents, the global distribution of faunas, and timing of the breakup of a Neoproterozoic supercontinent may be questioned in light of this potential hiatus. Integration of the chemostratigraphic record with trace fossil asemblages in California corroborates an earlier suggestion that basal Tommotian faunas in Siberia are apparently older than the first appearance of diverse small shelly fossils in China.
40606432|Examination of the mechanisms involved in the construction of presentday vegetative deposits along coastal waterways has made it possible to establish depositional patterns that can be compared with those found in similar environments in geologic time. These patterns include not only the composition and transport of the debris but also an estimation of the time involved in its deposition. Six sites with active deposits of plant macrodebris in the coastal basin of the Itanhaem River, So Paulo State, Brazil, were used in the study. In the central portion of the basin, the interior coastal plain is covered with restinga forest (dense, wet tropical forest of low altitudes), while the lower portion consists of mangrove swamps. The coast reflects anthropogenic intervention, and only a few scattered remnants of precolonization dune vegetation remain. The results after three years of study suggest that the accumulation of plant macrodebris in the middle and lower portions of the basin is parautochthonous, since only the leaves of genera typical of the restinga forest and mangrove swamp, respectively, were found. Along the coast the accumulations involved a mixture of parautochthonous and autochthonous elements. On the levee of the Branco River and within the mangrove swamp, deposition was slow, and many of the elements decayed quickly; such accumulations show little potential for preservation and eventual fossilization. A different site, however, reveals the rapid deposition of thick layers of plant debris, presumably associated with storms, and these accumulations are preserved for long periods, constituting good candidates for possible fossilization.
25835620|The Furongian Orsten-type fossil Lagersttte in the Alum Shale Formation of Sweden is an extraordinary deposit known for its detailed, three-dimensional preservation of the soft parts of small animal carcasses which have been replaced by calcium phosphate and occur in organic-rich nodular limestone. The exact cause and mechanism of this unusual fossil preservation, however, particularly the source of phosphorus, which plays a key role, remains unknown. Detailed observation in the Agnostus pisiformis Zone in the Backeborg section (Kinnekulle district) reveals that the phosphatocopine crustaceans showing soft-part preservation occur only in a few thin (<3 cm) layers containing abundant fecal pellets (pellet beds). Development of cross lamination suggests that the pellet beds were formed by low density sediment-gravity flow. Orsten-type preservation has been attributed to high phosphate levels in global marine waters during the Cambrian period; however, wavelength-dispersive X-ray and X-ray diffractometry analyses reveal that the Orsten limestones and surrounding shale were generally poor in phosphorus, which was mostly concentrated in the fecal pellets. The small animal carcasses preserved in such deposits were phosphatized during early diagenesis owing to the high local phosphorus levels of the accumulated fecal pellets. Searches for such cesspool-type preservation may yield further discoveries of Orsten-type fossil Lagersttten in other strata of various ages.
27670350|The Neoproterozoic Noonday Dolomite (Death Valley, USA), a post-glacial cap carbonate, contains closely packed, meter-long, cm-wide, tube-like structures that define the vertical accretion direction. Similar tubestones are known from post-glacial cap carbonates in Namibia and Brazil. In vertical cross section, the tubes average 2 cm in diameter, pinch and swell greatly along their length, may bifurcate and coalesce, and are filled with brown laminated micrite / microspar where best preserved. The tubes do not root or terminate in a particular layer and are randomly distributed where present. The laminated host rock is composed of an early lithified, microclotted fabric with framework void space filled with sparry dolomite cement. The contact between the tube fill and the host rock is diffuse and feathered; commonly, wisps of laminated host rock cross the tube fill and bridge between adjacent stromatolitic structures, compartmentalizing the tubes. The tubes likely result from the contemporaneous interplay between microbialite growth and sedimentation / cementation, rather than fluid or gas escape, as demonstrated by the compartmentalization by bridging laminae. Vertical cross sections resemble inter-column depressions that form between columnar stromatolites. Bed-parallel sections, however, reveal that the tube structures represent isolated, sediment-filled depressions within a continuous layer of stromatolite. The genesis of this unusual stromatolite morphology is likely related to highly supersaturated seawater in the aftermath of low-latitude glaciation in Neoproterozoic time. Similar tube-forming microbialites are known from alkaline lake systems such as Lake Turkana, Pavilion Lake, and paleo-Lake Gosuite (Green River Formation). The tubestones are interpreted to represent a rarely attained end-member in stromatolite morphospace, likely associated with anomalously high carbonate supersaturation.
10.2307/3515641|Brachiopod spines have been interpreted as a mechanism that enables the organism to rest on soft substrates by distributing shell mass over a greater area. This hypothesis is based on an arrangement in which spines are long, strongly curved, few in number, and generally restricted to the pedicle valve. However, other spine geometries also are prevalent, and the assumption that all arrangements functioned similarly may be unwarranted. Spinatrypa and Praewaagenoconcha, an atrypide and a productide, respectively, are genera of spinose brachiopods from the Upper Devonian Java Formation of New York. Although these genera belong to different subclasses, they have a similar spine geometry consisting of hundreds of thin, short, sub-perpendicular (to shell surface) spines, arranged concentrically on both valves. Population densities of articulate brachiopods were obtained from six localities of the Java Formation along an offshore-onshore gradient. Individuals were counted relative to surface area of the bedding planes. There are moderate, but highly significant, correlations between grain size and abundance of each spinose taxon, and the greatest mean densities of both Praewaagenoconcha and Spinatrypa occur in coarse sandstones. Although both genera have broad environmental ranges, peak mean abundances of Praewaagenoconcha and Spinatrypa are in platform margin and outer platform facies. All of these distributions are statistically distinguishable (
40606461|The Middle-Upper Ordovician represents a significant period in the early evolution of fishes. During this time, many of the major lineages, including javvless and putative jawed taxa, made their first appearance in the fossil record, marking a series of diversification events. As a number of studies have focused on the habitat of Laurentian fish during this interval, work has been undertaken at a number of known Gondwanan vertebrate localities in order to provide new perspectives on the ecological preferences of early fish from the Southern Hemisphere. Ichnological and sedimentological data collated from these localities enable reconstructions of the habitats of a number of Ordovician fish, most notably those of the arandaspid-bearing successions of the Anzaldo Formation of Bolivia, the Stairway Sandstone of central Australia, and the Amdeh Formation of Oman, from which articulated or macroscopic fragmentary fossil remains are recorded. These data indicate that the arandaspids were constrained to very shallow marine habitats and prone to seasonal influxes of freshwater and terrigenous sediment. It is proposed that this narrow paleoecological range may be used as a prospecting tool to search for other Ordovician vertebrate-bearing horizons.
10.2307/3514823| Pockmarks were first discovered and described from off Nova Scotia and are recognized as indicators of widespread seepage of gases and porewater through the seabed. Numerous hydrocarbon seeps and seep-related features have been studied in northern waters (defined as regions north of 45 N of Canada/Alaska and north of 55 N elsewhere) over the past ten years. In the Baltic Sea, methane seeps and seabed seep features occur at bedrock fault-lines and especially where two fault-lines intersect. In the Kattegat (strait between Denmark and Sweden), seepage from an extensive shallow methane reservoir occurs, and large carbonate-cemented columns up to 6 m high have been found. In the Skagerrak (strait between Norway and Denmark) there are also extensive regions with shallow gas and up to 24 m deep pockmarks. In the North Sea, there is ongoing research at actively bubbling pockmarks. On the northern Continental Shelf of Norway several new seep-related features have been found: up to 1000 m wide, and up to 30 m deep steepsided craters and seeping domes and ridges, some of which bear cold-water coral colonies. Off Baffin Island, Canada, there is a continuous natural hydrocarbon seep associated with methane-derived carbonate cemented sediments. On the Labrador shelf pockmarks cluster in and around iceberg furrows. Other seep indicators found in Canada are polynyas or permanent holes in the ice cover. The study of hydrocarbon seeps and seep related features is especially interesting in northern waters due to the close relationship with gas hydrates and with seabed features formed by other processes such as iceberg scouring. 
10.2307/3514829|The term pseudobioherm is used for fossiliferous calcareous bodies with a bioherm-like shape but neither built by organisms, nor bulging at the sediment/water interface. Jurassic pseudobioherms of southeastern France are among the first fossiliferous carbonate bodies whose relation to deep-sea seeps was recognized. They are built by carbonate precipitation in the sediment and they contain mainly infaunal non-building animals (chiefly bivalves). They are related to active synsedimentary faults that allowed the migration of fluids to the sea floor. Chemosynthetic life could occur in the vicinity of seeps, and early diagenetic carbonate precipitated. The nature and origin of the fluids are not well understood (hydrothermal vents or more probably cold seeps, deep or shallow origin). A comparison with other recently discovered pseudobioherms in different parts of the world and of the geological record is presented. In general, massive sulphide deposits with tube-worms characterize hot hydrothermal vents, whereas carbonate pseudobioherms with bivalves are typical of cold hydrocarbon seeps.
10.2307/3514558|The Pleistocene Ironshore Formation around Salt Creek, Grand Cayman, is an unconformity-bounded stratigraphic sequence formed of oolitic limestones that accumulated in a lagoonal setting subjected to progressively increasing energy conditions. The limestones of the Ironshore Formation at Salt Creek, which are up to 7 m thick, accumulated in a lagoon immediately behind the main reef crest. In this area, the upper part of the formation contains channel diasterns that can be used to divide it into lithosomes I, II, and III. The lower part of lithosome I comprises scattered patch reefs surrounded by oolitic limestones. The upper part of lithosome I, formed after the demise of the patch reefs, comprises oolitic limestone that accumulated in relatively quiet water conditions. A period of intense erosion then produced two channels that were separated by a bank with a relief of at least 1.5 m, and subsequently initiated deposition of large lithoclasts on the channel floors. Lithosome II is formed of oolitic limestones that were deposited under moderately high energy conditions in the confines of the channels. This phase of deposition was terminated by a second period of erosion that cut into the channel deposits of lithosome II in the northern part of the area. As with the lower channels, large lithoclasts were also deposited on the floor of this channel. High-energy conditions then resulted in the deposition of cross-bedded oolitic limestones in the confines of the channel. Ichnological evidence shows that the channel diastems, which formed initially as a result of erosion, evolved into firmgrounds prior to the deposition of the sediments over them. Analysis of the shallowing-upward sequence in the Ironshore Formation exposed near Salt Creek on Grand Cayman demonstrates the internal depositional complexity of unconformity-bounded sequences, and shows how integrated lithological and ichnological analyses can provide valuable information about discontinuities in a sequence.
3515808|Many ancient settings differ from Holocene shallow seas, and studies on quantitative taphonomy carried out in modern shell beds do not necessarily answer all questions that the fossil record may raise. In order to help characterize past environments, sedimentological shell beds from a Lower Pleistocene fan-delta system are analyzed. The studied sandstone intervals, cyclically alternated with a mudstone facies, were deposited in a tectonically active setting during phases of advance of fan deltas. High-density flows triggered by river floods mixed skeletal remains from different shallow-water communities. Standardized quantitative taphonomic procedures tested in modern settings are applied for the first time to fossil bivalves. The study shows that intrinsic factors did not overprint the pattern dictated by extrinsic agents. Damage levels are inversely related to sedimentation rate and directly related to the volume of high-density flows, although the influence of other agents cannot be eliminated. The most revealing taphonomic variables are fine-scale alteration, edge modification, fragmentation, and discoloration, while bioerosion and encrustation were insignificant, due to generally high rates of sedimentation. The study suggests different sources of skeletal remains. Fine-scale alteration, edge modification, and fragmentation are higher in shells from aerobic muddy sediments, and it is suggested that these remains came from erosion of older, tectonically exposed sediments of the mudstone biofacies. The majority of shells are fresh and came from nearshore sandy and muddy biofacies. These are interpreted as contemporary, or nearly so, to the depositional events. The overall results underline the importance of active tectonics in causing repeated burial/exhumation cycles and episodic burial of articulated, or otherwise pristine, skeletal remains, causing the frequent mixing of taphonomic signatures through lateral transport. This situation may be characteristic of other fan-delta systems from ancient structurally confined basins.
10.2307/3515384|The occurrence of trace fossil assemblages dominated by arthropod trackways and surface grazing trails within Carboniferous tidal rhythmites has puzzled sedimentologists and ichnologists, who interpreted them either as marine or nonmarine. The Virgilian (Stephanian) Tonganoxie Sandstone Member (Stranger Formation) at Buildex Quarry (eastern Kansas) consists, for the most part, of planar-laminated coarsegrained siltstones deposited on an upper tidal flat, close to or at the fluvial-estuarine transition of a macrotidal estuarine paleovalley. Recurrent thickness fluctuations demonstrate the strong influence of tidal processes and provide evidence that these deposits are tidal rhythmites, with thicker strata representing spring tides and thinner ones recording neap tides. The Buildex sequence hosts a moderately diverse ichnofauna composed of arthropod trackways (Dendroidichnites irregulare, Diplichnites gouldi, Diplopodichnus bifurcus, Kouphichnium isp., Mirandaichnium famatinense, Stiallia pilosa, Stiaria intermedia), grazing traces (Gordia indianaensis, Helminthoidichnites tenuis, Helminthopsis hieroglyphica), subsurface feeding traces (Treptichnus bifurcus, T. pollardi, irregular networks), apterygote insect resting and feeding traces (Tonganoxichnus buildexensis, T. ottawensis), fish traces (Undichna britannica, U. simplicitas), and tetrapod trackways. In contrast to trace fossil assemblages from brackish-water estuarine settings, the Buildex ichnofauna is characterized by moderate to relatively high ichnodiversity, ichnotaxa commonly present in terrestrial / freshwater environments, dominance of surface trails and absence of burrows, dominance of temporary structures produced by a mobile deposit-feeder fauna, a mixture of traces belonging to the Scoyenia and Mermia ichnofacies, moderate density of individual ichnotaxa, and absence of monospecific suites. This ichnofauna is thought to record the activity of a typical freshwater/terrestrial benthos. The presence of this mixed freshwater / terrestrial ichnofauna in tidal rhythmites is regarded as indicative of tidal flats that were developed in the most proximal zone of the inner estuary under freshwater conditions, more precisely in a zone between the maximum limit of landward tidal currents and the salinity limit further towards the sea. Although lithofacies distribution in estuarine valleys is mainly salinity-independent, the distribution of benthos is not. Accordingly, ichnologic studies have the potential to provide a high-resolution delineation of fluvio-estuarine transitions.
10.2307/3515334|Although oribatid mites are essential to the decomposition of plant tissues in modern temperate forests by assisting conversion of primary productivity to soil organic matter, little is known of their paleoecologic history. Previously there has been scattered and anecdotal evidence documenting oribatid mite detritivory in Pennsylvanian plant tissues. This study evaluates the incidence of oribatid mite damage for seven major coal-ball deposits from the Illinois and Appalachian sedimentary basins, representing a 17 million year interval from the Euramerican tropics. Although this interval contains the best anatomically preserved plant tissues with oribatid mite borings in the fossil record, coeval oribatid mite body-fossils are absent. By contrast, the known body-fossil record of oribatid mites commences during the Middle Devonian, but does not reappear until the Early Jurassic, at which time mite taxa are modern in aspect. All major plant taxa occurring in Pennsylvanian coal swamps, including lycopsids, sphenopsids, ferns, seed ferns and cordaites, were consumed by oribatid mites. Virtually every type of plant tissue was used by mites, notably indurated tissues such as bark, fibrovascular bundles and especially wood, as well as softer seed megagametophytic and parenchymatic tissues within stems, roots and leaves. Significant evidence also exists for secondary consumption by mites of tissues in macroarthropod coprolites. Our data indicate that oribatid mites consumed dead, aerially-derived plant tissues at ground level, as well as root-penetrated tissues substantially within the peat. Oribatid mites were important arthropod decomposers in Pennsylvanian coal swamps of Euramerica. The wood boring functional-feeding-guild was expanded by insects into above-ground, live trees during the early Mesozoic. New food resources for insect borers resulted from penetration of live tissues such as cambium and phloem, and the invasion of heartwood and other hard tissues mediated by insect-fungus symbioses. Termites and holometabolous insects were prominent contributors to this second wave of wood-boring, exploiting gymnosperms and angiosperms as both detritivores and herbivores. An earlier emplacement of oribatid mites as detritivores of dead plant tissues continued to the present, but without a documented trace-fossil record.
3515161|Unusually, crinoid columns are preserved perpendicular to sub-perpendicular to bedding (=life orientation) in the Upper Silurian Moydart Formation, Arisaig Group, of Nova Scotia. Such preservation has only rarely been reported previously. These columns invariably lack the crown and any obvious mode of attachment. Loss of the crown presumably occurred after the distal column was buried; the stalk may even have continued to live after loss of the crown. Absence of any obvious root structure may be due to cut effect or could be indicative that at least some Paleozoic crinoids lacked an identifiable attachment. Burial was rapid, but not enough to topple the crinoids, and occurred as a series of sediment influxes.
10.2307/3515036|Owing to preservational biases, ichnofabrics of fine-grained marine strata deposited under steady-state conditions typically contain little information on infaunal activities in shallower substrate levels, particularly surface mixed layers. However, as suggested by studies of the Miocene Monterey Formation (central California), the tops of bioturbated oxygenation-event beds within laminated sequences may preserve relatively undisturbed mixed-layer ichnofabrics as a consequence of deoxygenation and associated cessation of bioturbation. In the Monterey examples, bed tops preserve pelletal mixed-layer ichnofabrics that were likely produced by head-down deposit-feeding organisms (polychaetes?) during the waning stages of oxygenation episodes. Studies of similarly preserved fabrics in other stratigraphic units may provide otherwise unavailable information on shallow-tier organisms and their sediment-modifying activities.
3515773| The Late Cretaceous seas of Venezuela were characterized by deposition of organic carbon-rich limestones, cherts, and shales in the Maracaibo and Barinas/Apure Basins of western Venezuela (La Luna and Navay Formations) and in the Maturn and Guarico Sub-basins of eastern Venezuela (Querecual, Tigre, and San Antonio Formations). Deposition of these units typically occurred under low-energy, lowoxygen conditions that were punctuated by the episodic activity of bottom currents, debris flows, turbidites, syndepositional faulting, and by intermittent oxygenation. These events produced a characteristic set of sedimentary structures that can be used to provide more detailed interpretations of each depositional system. Four main types of sedimentary structures noted in this study are: (1) hydrodynamic-primarily produced through the actions of currents; (2) rheotropic-structures produced during loading and dewatering of unconsolidated sediments; (3) biogenic-formed through the actions of living organisms, such as trace fossils; and (4) diagenetic-structures and textures formed through near surface and burial diagenetic processes. Identification of these structures can provide new insights on the hydrodynamic and biologic settings of Venezuelan Cretaceous strata. Utilizing observations made in this study along with previously published works, bottom-water conditions in the La Luna depositional system are interpreted to have been maintained consistently in a state of anoxia or very low dissolved oxygen content. This contrasts with bottom waters in the Querecual depositional system, during which strong periods of anoxia or low dissolved oxygen content were punctuated by periods of intermittent oxygenation. 
3515067|The paleoecological characteristics of the Eocene shallow-marine carbonate shelf deposits in NE Spain, rich in foraminifers and coralline algae, are interpreted through analogy with recent counterparts. Microfacies distribution within three carbonate units of the Eocene Terminal Complex reveals an overall upward-shallowing and a progressive change from mesotrophic to eutrophic conditions. Microfacies diversity reflects susceptibility of transitional environments to local variations because small, local morphological or environmental changes can modify the nutrient distribution and, consequently, biofacies occurrences. The two biofacies present in the Lower Carbonate Unit indicate a platform colonized by a macro-algal vegetation cover, coexisting probably with a perennial vegetation and local coralline algal bioherms. Normal marine-salinity waters and a mesotrophic environment prevailed in this unit. The four biofacies present in the Middle Carbonate Unit indicate a platform where a macro-algal vegetation and coralline algal bioherms coexisted and/or alternated with cyanobacterial mats. This biofacial diversity was produced by local variations in nutrient and organic resources, in salinity and in fresh-water inputs. Finally, the only biofacies present in the Upper Carbonate Unit is characterized by the abundance of cyanobacterial mats and indicate more eutrophic conditions and meteoric influences.
10.2307/3514673|Lower delta plains are primary sites for the deposition, accumulation, and preservation of macrodetrital plant parts. Chacaloochee Bay, an interdistributary estuary in the Mobile Delta, Alabama, is being infilled actively by crevasse-splay sedimentation. Within this system are a variety of sites in which plant macrodetritus has accumulated and has the potential of being preserved. Aerial plant parts constitute laminar leaf-litter beds within various sediments, in addition to extensive accumulations of relatively pure organics (peats). The leaf-litter beds in the crevasse-channel distributary mouth bar and a detrital peat shoal have been examined with respect to the distribution of accumulated plant parts and their size fractionation. Whole leaves recovered from the sediment-water interface of the crevasse channel provide an insight as to the provenance of the accumulated plant litter. The vast majority of leaves being incorporated into the interdistributary bay sediments have not originated from the surrounding vegetational communities. Rather, most recovered leaves originated from communities existing at least 13 km north of the depositional site. The taphonomic processes responsible for the transport, deposition, and alteration of the accumulated macrodetritus include hetero-chronous leaf fall, fluctuations in bedload and suspension-load transport, rates of periodic flooding, redistribution by tidal and wind-generated surface currents, biodegradation, and bioturbation.
10.2307/3514904|Composite ichnofabrics of shelf-sea pelagic deposits, such as the Cretaceous chalks of Denmark, are among the most complex and difficult to decipher of all ichnofabrics, because they represent a succession of diverse, multitiered, benthic communities occupying a succession of substrate types during continuous sedimentation under variable seafloor conditions. Upper Maastrichtian chalks from Dania Quarry in northern Denmark exemplify the basic model of a tiered ichnocoenosis, including active, diverse but unidentified burrowers in the shallowest tiers, deposit feeders producing Planolites, Thalassinoides, Taenidium and Anconichnus in the intermediate tiers, and deep-deposit feeders creating Zoophycos and Chondrites in the deepest tiers. Detailed ichnofabric analysis reveals over a dozen successive burrowing episodes in the Danish chalk, testifying to the fact that the original ooze passed through guts of perhaps hundreds of organisms before it lithified. Application of the Droser and Bottjer ichnofabric index method to the complexly bioturbated chalk is misleading, because it may oversimplify a very complicated ichnologic situation.
27670364|Taphonomic processes that may bias plant-fossil assemblages are important in explaining many aspects of the Cenozoic plant fossil record. Two tree genera, Eucalyptus and Nothofagus, are especially important for understanding the evolution of Australia's forests, because the former currently dominates the continent, whereas the latter is dominant in Cenozoic microfloras. Nothofagus also is prominent in temperate forests of South America and New Zealand, and in the Cenozoic history of these land-masses and Antarctica. This study measures standing biomass and leaf-litter production in contiguous cool temperate rainforest dominated by nanophyllous Nothofagus cunninghamii and wet sclerophyll forest dominated by macrophyllous Eucalyptus regnans in southeastern Australia. It tests an a priori hypothesis that the under-representation of Eucalyptus in the Australian Cenozoic record may reflect differential organ production by Eucalyptus and Nothofagus, respectively. A taphonomic bias was observed between the standing crop and leaf-litter production among the five canopy species that were examined. Nothofagus cunninghamii has particularly high levels of leaf production relative to standing biomass, while E. regnans has low levels of leaf production relative to its standing biomass. It also was found that when there are large differences in leaf size, leaf counts do not accurately reflect rank-order dominance patterns in the standing vegetation, whereas measurements of leaf area do reflect the general dominance patterns. These data are used to reevaluate the earliest reliable Australian Eucalyptus fossil locality, the Late Oligocene Berwick Quarry Flora, which contained both Nothofagus leaves and pollen. This reevaluation indicates that Nothofagus was present in, but did not dominate, the original vegetation, and Eucalyptus may have been more common than previously considered.
3514911|Dense concentrations of Skolithos, commonly called piperock, exemplify the characteristic ichnofabric of the Skolithos ichnofacies in Paleozoic strata. Piperock occurs in sandstones and coarse siltstones within all types of shallow marine facies and is not restricted to beach, littoral or intertidal sediments. Piperock, however, is restricted to terrigenous clastic sediments. An analysis of the temporal distribution of piperock confirms the previous observations that piperock is "typical" of the Cambrian but also demonstrates that piperock occurs throughout the Paleozoic, decreasing in abundance after the Cambrian. This distribution may be a result of large-scale physical or biological factors. Preserved nearshore sandstones may decrease through this time interval. In addition, the decline of piperock corresponds with the Ordovician faunal diversification when bioturbation increases in other environments and, thus, may reflect the appearance of new and better adapted fauna in the nearshore terrigenous clastic setting.
10.2307/3515463|The Nova Scotian continental rise below 4750 m water depth is subject to intermittently strong currents (>30 cm/s) a few times a year in deep-sea storms. These erode and rapidly deposit sediment on the bed, with deep erosion (>5 cm) occurring in an annual to decadal time scale. X-radiographs of subsamples from box cores taken from this area exhibit a repetitive organization of primary and biogenic structures. Four tiers are recognized: 1, 2, and 3a and b. Tiers 1 and 2 are produced by ichnoguilds dominated by "Mycellia" B and Protopalaeodictyon, and resemble the archetypical Nereites ichnofacies. Tier 3 is dominated by guilds comprising members of the "Scolicia group" (especially Bichordites) with an overprint of Planolites and Chondrites. However, Tier 3 exhibits a vertical gradient of potential trace fossil preservation from 3a to 3b. At depth (3b), the tier becomes thoroughly bioturbated and finally forms the 'historical layer' of other authors. At the base of this layer some split box cores revealed Thalassinoides 20-25 cm down. However, no vertical shafts were seen linking these occurrences to the modern sea floor, and they are thought to be part of a fossil ichnocoenosis belonging to an early post-glacial colonization of the sea bed. The extreme short-term rates of erosion and deposition in this area, the latter being up to 2.7 cm per year, result in a very low probability of preservation of Tiers 1 and 2. The material providing the long-term accumulation rate of 5 cm/ky is dominated by Tier 3. Thus only one tier would be preserved in lithified deposits. The record of intense biological and sedimentary activity seen in x-radiographs of Tiers 1 and 2 is not preserved. The accumulating sediment is ichnologically biased. This slowly accumulating sediment column is stratigraphically "incomplete" at the 1-year level required to preserve a record of benthic storm events, but is probably "complete" at the 100-year scale.
10.2307/3514621|Neogene and Quaternary lacustrine diatomaceous deposits are numerous in the western United States, particularly in the Great Basin. Some of these sediments are interbedded with volcanic rocks that have been dated radiometrically or by the fission track method. Fossil lacustrine diatom floras can thus be arranged in geochronological order. By this means, a biochronological pattern of lacustrine diatom evolution has emerged: obligate nonmarine Actinocyclus Ehrenberg (Family Hemidiscaceae) appeared in the early Miocene and attained maximum diversity in the middle middle Miocene. A single species of non-marine Actinocyclus persisted to the end of the middle Miocene. Only two species of marine Actinocyclus survive in freshwater today. Genera belonging to the Family Thalassiosiraceae typify the late Miocene to Holocene lacustrine diatom biochronology. Mesodictyon Theriot et Bradbury nom. prov. is restricted to the late Miocene. Cyclotella (Ktzing) Brbisson probably first appeared during the middle Miocene and diversified rapidly during the Pliocene. Stephanodiscus Ehrenberg and Cyclostephanos Round appeared during the latest Miocene and species radiated in the Pliocene and Pleistocene. These forms are often abundant, well-preserved, easily identifiable, and widespread, and can be used to correlate and date lacustrine diatomaceous sediment in the western United States.
3515748|Examination of ontogenetic variation in the stable isotopic composition of accretionary biogenic hard parts is becoming a commonplace technique for gaining insights into organism age, changes in growth rate through ontogeny, and environmental conditions under which organisms lived. However, the application of isotopic data to life-history studies often is impeded by the noisy nature of environmental signals, as well as by seasonal cessation of hardpart accretion. A computational approach is presented that quantitatively resolves secular (seasonal) change in environmental parameters such as temperature and salinity with spatial (hard part) variation in isotopic composition. Output consists of determinations of mean annual isotopic composition, seasonal range in isotopic composition, and variation in hard-part growth rate for any interval of data in an accretionary transect. Quantitative estimates of absolute growth rates, as well as the proportion of each season represented by hard-part accretion, are derived for every season of the organism's life recorded in their hard parts. This methodology is applied to <sup>18</sup>O data from a valve of the surf clam, Spisula solidissima, collected live from the New Jersey shelf. Based on the saw-toothed pattern of <sup>18</sup>O variation in this clam, and on the fact that observed amplitudes of <sup>18</sup>O variation are only a fraction of those anticipated from measurements of ambient water salinity and temperature, it is apparent that growth cessation occurred during each of the dozen summers and dozen winters of ontogeny. Determination of best-fit sinusoids for each season of growth reveals that: (1) rate of growth decreased exponentially during the ontogeny of this individual; (2) net spring season accretion was initially twice that in the fall; and (3) ontogenetic decrease in net accretion was accomplished in part by reduction in rate of accretion, and in part by reduction in the number of spring and fall days during which growth occurred. Isotope thermometry suggests that all growth intervals span an optimum temperature; shorter (or longer) durations of seasonal shell accretion occur over narrower (or wider) temperature ranges centered on about 11<sup></sup>C. Beyond the obvious paleoenvironmental applications, the advantage of this method for biologists and paleontologists is that rate and duration of growth can be approximated at seasonal to subseasonal levels of resolution for any living or fossil organism. Such information from a suite of individuals can reveal how growth within a species is affected by changes in latitude, depth, productivity, anthropogenic influence, and other environmental gradients. In addition, because changes in rate and timing of growth within a lineage are the mainstay of heterochrony studies, quantitative methods for assessing such variables through time in fossil specimens will allow more rigorous testing of evolutionary hypotheses.
40606423|Laboratory tests indicate that 15% O, instead of 12%, is required for the propagation of a widespread forest fire, a 3% increase from what was previously assumed. The presence of widespread wildfire records in the Upper Triassic and Lower Jurassic of Central Europe suggests that the lower limit for O during this time was at least 15%. Wildfire records are based on the co-occurrence of charcoal fragments and elevated concentrations of pyrolytic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs). In all samples charcoal fragments are large to medium-sized and angular, suggesting that they were transported by rivers only short distances after charcoalification. Calculated combustion temperatures vary with stratigraphic position and average 295-377 C, which is characteristic for ground or near-surface wildfires. The most extensive wildfires occurred in the earliest Jurassic and their intensities successively decreased with time. Average concentrations of the sum of pyrolytic PAHs for the lowermost Jurassic Zagaje Formation reached ~1253 g/g total organic carbon (TOC), whereas for the Upper Triassic-Lower Jurassic Sktoby Formation they did not exceed ~16 g/g TOC. Charcoal-bearing sequences were also characterized by the presence of phenyl-PAHs (Ph-PAHs) and oxygen-containing aromatic compounds. The dominance of the more stable Ph-PAH isomers in these immature to low-maturity sedimentary rocks supports their pyrolytic origin. The oxygenated PAHs may also be derived from combustion processes.
10.2307/3515131|Sandy braided streams delivering sediment to the foreland basin along the paleo-Pacific margin of Gondwana during the Permian and Triassic were inhabited by an active infaunal animal, probably an arthropod. This animal moved horizontally and vertically within the sediment, producing four types of traces, including vertical shafts, horizontal endostratal trails, bilobed endostratal trails and chevron traces. A common producer is indicated by congruence of size distributions of the traces, and by the fact that single traces change from one type to another. Unable to survive high flow conditions, the animal colonized channel bar sands during slack water and moved in unlined burrows throughout the upper 20 cm of sediment. Its opportunism and behavioral plasticity may have been keys to its survival and success in sandy fluvial habitats throughout the Late Permian and Triassic.
27670551|Upper Jurassic ammonoid shell concentrations on pelagic carbonate platforms formed by the mixture of well-preserved and moldic shells provide a unique opportunity to evaluate the effects of average shell durability and productivity on variations in shell abundance preserved in the fossil record. High abundance of primary cement has significantly negative statistical effects on taphonomic alteration, reducing the proportion of ammonoid shells affected by Fe-staining and syndepositional dissolution. High proportions of internal borings indicate that shell concentrations were not rapidly buried. Significantly negative effects of taphonomic alteration on ammonoid shell-packing density and spatial variations in shell-bed thickness show that variations in ammonoid abundance are related to variations in production and destruction rates rather than to variations in sediment dilution. The close spatial association of dissolved aragonite shells and precipitated calcite in shell-rich deposits and the higher proportion of dissolved molds in shell-poor beds demonstrate the simultaneous action of dissolution and cementation in the semiconsolidated mixed layer. These relationships imply positive feedback between the high abundance of ammonoid shells and the low rate of shell destruction, with dissolved carbonate ions from high aragonite input reducing the rate of ammonoid dissolution and providing a local source for carbonate cement. Cementation has the strongest positive relationship with shell-packing density in rank correlations and generalized linear models. Proportions of ammonoid embryonic stages and early juveniles have smaller but significantly positive statistical effects on shell-packing density in simple regressions. We hypothesize that (1) ammonoid shell concentrations correspond to long-term peaks in ammonoid production, with aragonite dissolution buffering the porewater chemistry, and (2) the increase in ammonoid production rates was related to intervals with average high fecundity coupled with high juvenile mortality.
3515210|Significant accumulations of microscopic nautiloids in Devonian carbonate grainstones are reported for the first time from the fossil record. Small-sized nautiloids belonging to three or four taxa are the predominant skeletal components in shell concentrates that are nine m thick. The nautiloids have an average length <6 mm and an average diameter <2 mm, are densely packed, and moderately well sorted with rare evidence of grading, imbrication, or alignment. Association with abundant massive stromatoporoids and colonial corals indicates that the nautiloid communities inhabited a shallow-marine reefal environment. The extraordinary abundance of small-sized nautiloids, their high density and concentration, as well as the thickness and repeated occurrence of the nautiloid grainstones in the reefal sequence suggest that a combination of biological (group spawning and mass mortality) processes and physical (storm-related) phenomena were associated with the production, concentration, and preservation of an unusually high abundance of small adult and juvenile nautiloids. The inferred life history strategies of these Devonian nautiloids suggest significant differences from the modern Nautilus but remarkable similarities with belemnites, ammonites, and modern coleoids.
40865412|The Juniata Formation comprises Upper Ordovician sandstone and mudstone that crops out in the Appalachian region of the eastern United States from Pennsylvania to Tennessee. An outcrop at Potters Mills, central Pennsylvania, has previously been attributed to a terrestrial environment. Because this outcrop contains numerous sub-vertical burrows and evidence for pedogenesis, it has regularly been cited as the oldest evidence for several aspects of continental ecosystem development, including the first evidence for terrestrial infauna and animal-plant interactions. We present evidence from both original fieldwork and published literature that collectively sheds considerable doubt on previous interpretations. The evidence suggests that the Juniata Formation at Potters Mills was deposited in a marginal marine setting and, as such, no evidence for early life on land can be inferred from its strata. This has significant implications for the numerous studies that have cited the Juniata Formation as providing a key record of early terrestrial evolution.Removing it from the dataset of studies that deal with the history of life on land, we conclude that currently the majority of fossil evidence from localities worldwide supports the appearance of terrestrial infauna and animal-plant interactions in the Silurian-Devonian.
10.2307/3515386|Middle to late Pleistocene shallow marine deposits in the southeastern part of the Kanto Plains, central Japan, yield well-preserved specimens of the trace fossil Rosselia socialis Dahmer, 1937, a vertical, spindle-shaped mud-lined tube. Aside from such spindle-like specimens, peculiar specimens characterized by their long, vertically stacked forms have also been observed. Detailed observations of the stacked specimens and the sedimentary structures of the host sediment reveal that these burrows were formed as the result of the response of the trace-maker to depositional events. The characteristic mode of occurrence of the specimens can be used as a measuring stick not only for the magnitude of erosion and subsequent deposition of the host sediment, but also for the relative frequency of the depositional events, despite bioturbation of the host sediment. This technique can be applied readily to fine-scale stratigraphic and/or paleoenvironmental analyses.
40606486|The spheroidal edrioasteroid echinoderm Totiglobus, preserved in the middle Cambrian Chisholm Shale of eastern Nevada, was one of many interesting morphologies to develop during the period of rapid evolutionary diversification in the early and middle Cambrian. To understand more about how the unusual morphology of Totiglobus evolved, a detailed examination of fossil specimens and the strata in which they are preserved was performed. A total of 263 specimens were examined and placed into taphonomic categories based on their preserved orientation relative to the seafloor. Seventy-two wellpreserved specimens were used for statistical analysis. Of these, 49% were preserved with the aboral surface down. The preference for preservation in this category, with the aboral surface (which contains a suctorial attachment disc) oriented directly on top of the sediment, was statistically significant (p < 0.025). These data support the hypothesis that Totiglobus lived attached to the seafloor through suction. Rock samples were also collected from seven localities in the Chisholm Shale and the bioturbation levels were determined using the ichnofabric index (ii) method. A total of 48 samples, comprising 4.09 m of strata, were collected and x-radiographed. Ichnofabric index (ii) data recorded from these rocks revealed extremely low bioturbation levels (~ ii = 1) with no mixed layer development (1.01 average ii). These results likewise support the sediment attachment hypothesis for Totiglobus, This study indicates that some unusual Cambrian morphologies, including that of Totiglobus, evolved partly in response to the presence of nonactualistic seafloor conditions and are therefore not simply early evolutionary experiments.
10.2307/3514785|Stromatoporoids associated with a Hoburgen-type reef (Upper Ludlovian, Hamra Beds) on the island of Gotland provided living space for a variety of encrusting epibionts and endoliths. The stromatoporoids were inhabited by some 32 species, including cyclostome, cystoporate, and trepostome bryozoans, tabulates, rugosans, pelmatozoans, brachiopods, spirorbids, cornulitids, tentaculitids, and endolithic organisms. Specialist organisms adapted to the cryptic niche were present and the functional make-up, as well as skeletonized coverage, of this community resembled that of extant cryptic communities. Lower and upper surfaces exhibit similar diversities (H<sup></sup> log<sub>e</sub>=2.33, 2.43, respectively), although their percent coverages (13.0%, 9.9%) and taxonomic compositions differ, indicating an upper-lower surface polarity. Both lower and upper surfaces exhibit a zonation with diversity and percent coverage decreasing significantly from the outer edge to the interior. Both surfaces also exhibit compositional differences between outer and interior zones.
10.2307/3514743|In the modern oceans, the removal of dissolved silica from sea water is principally a biological process carried out by diatoms, with lesser contributions from radiolaria, silicoflagellates, and sponges. Because such silica in sediments is often redistributed locally during diagenesis to form nodular or bedded chert, stratigraphic changes in the facies distribution of early diagenetic chert provide important insights into the development of biological participation in the silica cycle. The abundance of chert in upper Proterozoic peritidal carbonates suggests that at this time silica was removed from seawater principally by abiological processes operating in part at the margins of the oceans. With the evolution of demosponges near the beginning of the Cambrian Period, subtidal biogenic cherts became increasingly common, and with the Ordovician rise of radiolaria to ecological and biogeochemical prominence, sedimented skeletons became a principal sink for oceanic silica. Cherts of Silurian to Cretaceous age share many features of facies distribution and petrography but they differ from Cenozoic siliceous deposits. These differences are interpreted to reflect the mid-Cretaceous radiation of diatoms and their subsequent rise to domination of the silica cycle. Biogeochemical cycles provide an important framework for the paleobiological interpretation of the organisms that participate in them.
20173021|This study focuses on two main questions: (1) what types of shell damage occur in the death assemblage of upper Chesapeake Bay benthic mollusks; and (2) how does shell damage differ according to intrinsic factors such as life habit, shell mineralogy, and shell organic content. Extrinsic and intrinsic factors, ranging from the environment to shell composition, interact to influence the quality of fossil preservation. Our understanding of how extrinsic factors affect shell-damage profiles has improved dramatically with the development of taphofacies models, but the role that intrinsic factors play is still poorly understood. Molluscan death-assemblage material was obtained via box coring, identified, and assigned taphonomic damage states. The most common forms of shell damage were disarticulation, fine-scale surface alteration (FSA), periostracum loss, edge modification, and fragmentation. Four patterns were documented consistently across habitat types when shell damage was examined according to life habit and shell composition. Infaunal specimens exhibit significantly more severe damage due to internal FSA than epifaunal specimens. Calcitic specimens experience higher levels of external encrustation than noncalcitic specimens. Specimens with high levels of shell organics experience significantly more fragmentation and edge modification than specimens with low levels of shell organic content. The direction and degree to which other damage variables differ among intrinsic categories vary according to the variable assessed or the habitat type sampled. In the northern sites (i.e., deeper water), all the variables that recorded differential damage according to shell-organic content recorded greater damage in specimens with high shell organic content, suggesting that the latter may be experiencing selective removal from the death assemblage.
10.2307/3515475|Ichnological study of Lower Pliocene rocky shores in several northwestern Mediterranean basins has revealed the existence of a recurrent trace fossil assemblage of borings. This assemblage is dominated by the ichnogenera Gastrochaenolites and Entobia, which often are accompanied by other borings, such as Maeandropolydora, Caulostrepsis, Trypanites, Circolites, Iramena, and unnamed U-shaped borings. The same Gastrochaenolites-Entobia assemblage has been described from Mesozoic and Cenozoic rocky shores around the world, and these observations validate the recently proposed Entobia ichnofacies as a recurrent ichnofacies for post-Paleozoic rocky shores.
10.2307/3514642|Tree stumps of arborescent lycopods were discovered in situ at the contact of the Herrin (No. 6) Coal and the Energy Shale Members, near the Walshville paleochannel, the major river channel running through and draining the Herrin coal swamp. The stumps are associated with, and in one case attached to, fallen trunks identified as a Lepidodendron similar to L. aculeatum. The stumps and trunks occur in a lower carbonaceous facies of the Energy Shale. The trees were rooted in the peat and represent the final vegetation at the site. Various lines of evidence suggest that the trees were of approximately the same age and formed a single stand that died as a consequence of completing a determinate life cycle, not as a result of mud accumulation or drowning. Distribution of the tree stumps is random. Consideration of tree habit and development, edaphic (soil) quality of this and similar swamp sites, and colonization dynamics suggests that these trees were opportunists within a milieu of stressful habitats. Vegetation structure probably was influenced only slightly or not at all by density-dependent (competitive) factors. Lycopods of this type are characteristic of clastic-compression (mineral-substrate) swamp vegetation, and occur in some coal-swamp (peat-substrate) communities, possibly in relatively higher nutrient areas. Their presence above the Herrin Coal appears restricted to near-channel sites, which they may have colonized as depositional and/or edaphic conditions changed from those typical of a peat-substrate swamp to those more similar to mineral substrates. There are a number of similarities between modern and ancient swamps in the ecological strategies of the dominant plants and the structure of the communities; however, there is little morphological "convergence" among the dominant species.
20172967|The Late Silurian Ringerike Group of southern Norway is a lower Old Red Sandstone megasequence that marks the regressive culmination of Cambro-Silurian marine deposition in the Oslo Region. The basal Sundvollen Formation represents deposition in a number of sub-environments of a broad, muddy coastal-plain setting, and is succeded by fluvial deposition of the Stubdal and Store Arya Formations. The terminal formation of the Ringerike Group, the Holmestrand Formation, represents deposition in sub-environments of a sandy beach setting. Both the marginal-marine Sundvollen and Holmestrand formations contain a wide variety of trace fossils (Arenicolites, Cruziana, Didy-maulichnus, Diplichnites gouldi, Diplocraterion, Gordia marina, Margaritichnus, "Merostomichnites," Oniscoidichnus, Paleohelcura, Palmichnium stoermeri, ?Polarichnus garnierensis, Rusophycus, Siskemia bipediculus, Skolithos, Steinsfjordichnus brutoni, Taenidium) that are discussed and analyzed, comprising the first complete Late Silurian study from the Baltic area. The trace fossils, which occur in facies-controlled assemblages, are combined with sedimentologic evidence to perform a high-resolution paleoenvironmental analysis of the Ringerike Group. Multivariate cluster analysis of the bulk Ringerike ichnofauna with similar-aged ichnofaunas from other paleocontinents supports the hypothesis that localized environmental factors outweighed provincialism as the dominant control on the composition of arthropod-trackway-dominated tracefossil assemblages during the Siluro-Devonian.
27670367|Leaf margin analysis (LMA), which is based on a correlation between the proportion of woody dicot species with nontoothed leaf margins and mean annual temperature, has been promoted as a tool for estimating mean annual temperature (MAT) from fossil-leaf assemblages. The original LMA calibration was based on East Asian mesic vegetation, and substantially the same relationship has been shown for other geographical regions, including Australian mesic vegetation. In this report, taphonomic effects are assessed using autochthonous samples from extant Australian forests for sites ranging from tropical lowland rainforest and monsoonal deciduous woodland to temperate rainforest with and without emergent Eucalyptus, and for parautochthonous and allochthonous (i.e., streambed) leaf accumulations. MAT was estimated within the binomial sampling error of the estimate for 27 of 30 (90%) of the test sites, and was found to underestimate MAT systematically when applied to streambed leaf assemblages. This result may reflect the streamside bias detected in recent studies of tropical forests in South America. Sites where MAT was overestimated are of low species richness (<10 spp.).
10.2307/3514787|Tropical marine communities from shallow-water (<30 m) carbonate environments are often dominated by hermatypic scleractinian corals with lesser amounts of crustose coralline algae and endolithic demosponges. Living cover is typically high (80-100%). Along the north-central coast of Jamaica and at many western Atlantic sites, communities existing below 55 m inhabit a vertical to overhanging wall of reef limestone, the deep fore reef, which extends to approximately 130 m. At 60 m the community resembles that of shallower water, although scleractinians are less abundant and encrusting and erect demosponges are much more abundant. Coralline algae and macroalgae are also important space occupants at 60 m and living cover approaches 65%. Encrusting sponges and coralline, filamentous, and macroalgae predominate in the middle region of the deep fore reef A low-diversity assemblage occupying 40% of the substratum and dominated by diminutive encrusting and endolithic? demosponges and largely endolithic filamentous algae occurs from 100-130 m, the lower limit of the deep fore reef. Community structure and zonation on the shallower reefs is controlled by a number of biotic and abiotic factors, most notably predation/grazing, light intensity, and turbulence. On the deep fore reef, grazing and turbulence are greatly reduced. While reduced in intensity, light continues to exert a strong influence on community bathymetric zonation. Sedimentation also exerts an important control on the spatial distribution of the deep fore-reef biota with the most diverse assemblages flourishing in areas protected from sediment Despite a regime of reduced disturbance in deep water, community diversity remains relatively constant to a depth of 90-100 m.
40960982|New echinoderm holdfast discoveries from Gondwana demonstrate that pelmatozoans have been cementers able to attach to carbonate firmgrounds since the basal middle Cambrian. Echinoderms were thus colonizing shallow, high-energy environments well before the appearance of the first true carbonate hardgrounds in the Furongian. Morphological innovations and adaptations to firmground media (= substrates) were first developed in softground, clayey, offshore environments where echinoderms cemented to shell fragments. This preadaption allowed echinoderms to quickly and effectively exploit the newly emerging hardground habitats in the Furongian to Early Ordovician.
10.2307/3515256|The distribution of modern reefdwelling bryozoans provides a guide for recognizing and interpreting bryozoan zonation in ancient reefs. Toward that end, cluster analysis and gradient analysis were used to examine depth zonation of bryozoan species occupying cryptic habitats on the leeward fringing reef of Bonaire. Both analytical techniques produced clusters of sample depths representing shallow-(1-9 m), intermediate-(12-33 m), and deep water (40-61 m) habitats. Similarly, both grouped species into 4 depth-related associations, including shallow, intermediate, intermediate-to-deep, and deep water associations from cluster analysis, and shallow, shallow-to-intermediate, intermediate-to-deep, and deep water associations from gradient analysis. Results were corroborated by canonical discriminant function analyses. In both analyses, interpretable associations of species were recognizable in spite of intergradational distributions down the reef front; most displayed subtle differences in abundances across a range of depths with only a few species restricted to narrow ranges of depths. Gradient analysis produced the more interpretable results because, unlike cluster analysis, a single ordering of species along the depth-gradient resulted. In contrast, terminal branches or subclusters, determined by cluster analysis, may be rotated at branch bifurcations into a variety of species arrangements, with no objective means of determining which permutation most accurately portrays interspecific relationships along the environmental gradient. Additionally, the ordination of species by gradient analysis produced species associations which contained a higher percentage of the total number of colonies sampled across member species than was the case for cluster-defined species groupings. Because taphonomic processes may strengthen the expression of gradients, similar species associations in fossil reefs have a high probability of being recognized, especially through the use of gradient analytical techniques, and may provide a framework for the establishment of paleobathymetry.
20172991|Early Ordovician conodonts have been recovered from the upper Munising Formation and the lower part of the Au Train Formation at Pictured Rock National Lakeshore in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan. Two trilobites from the lower Au Train probably represent the Symphysurina Zone (S. woosteri Subzone) and confirm the Early Ordovician age of the Au Train. The presence of middle Late Cambrian (Franconian) trilobites in the underlying Munising Formation led to traditional assumption of a major hiatus between the Munising and the Au Train. An unconformity between these formations has been difficult to recognize in outcrops because upper Munising sandstones grade upward into weathered, reworked beach sands deposited during Ordovician transgression. The reworked sands traditionally have been assigned to the Munising, with the base of the Au Train placed at the lowest occurrence of carbonate rocks in the sequence. Conodonts from the uppermost Munising and lower Au Train are characteristic of the Rossodus manitouensis Zone (upper Skullrockian Stage, Millardan Series, Lower Ordovician). The conodont and trilobite data permit correlation of the rocks of this interval with sequence stratigraphic units in the Burnout Canyon Member of the House Limestone in the Ibex area of Utah and with equivalent strata in other parts of Laurentia.
10.2307/3515140|An analysis of the Jamaican Upper Oligocene echinoids, based on new collections made from the Brown's Town Formation, has identified 12 species, a diversity comparable with other Caribbean faunas of the same age and also with later Eocene faunas of Jamaica. While the main extinction of Caribbean echinoid taxa was apparently at (or before) the Terminal Eocene Event, Jamaica's fauna underwent a reduction in species diversity in the mid middle Eocene, coincident with the change in sedimentation from the impure Yellow Limestone Group to the "pure" White Limestone Supergroup. Although certain Yellow Limestone species persisted into the late Eocene, the Upper Oligocene fauna shows considerable taxonomic turnover.
3515834|The study investigates early leaf decay in marine and freshwater environments, using an experiment in which Arbutus menziesii (Pacific Madrona) leaves were placed at the sediment-water interface and allowed to decay for 20 days. The leaves show distinct changes at a morphological level from very early stages of decay (i.e., after 5 days). The pattern of degradation in the marine environment is different from that in freshwater. Comprehensive megascopic and microscopic examination using SEM images reveal that decay is essentially due to microbes: bacteria and fungi that form a biofilm. Degradation in water, either marine or freshwater, is more rapid than in sediment, due to oxic conditions and unrestricted mobility of microbes. The lower surface of the leaves shows greater alteration due to: (1) a thinner cuticle; (2) the presence of stomata, which act as an entry point of degradative agents; and (3) cuticular ridges that increase surface area and act as a platform for trapping microbes, detritus, and diatoms. The upper surface remains largely unaffected. Chemical changes accompanying the morphological alterations have been assessed by molecular analysis of the whole leaves using Pyrolysis-Gas Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry. Various moieties released by the pyrolysis of polysaccharides, lignin, protein, cutin, and cutan (which account for the bulk of the leaf tissue) have been identified and changes in the relative abundances of these traced to the degraded leaves. Relative abundances of toluene and phenol (derived from protein), 2-furaldehyde, 2-hydroxymethylfuran and 2,3-dimethylcyclopenten-1-one (derived from polysaccharides), and 2-methoxyphenol and 2,6-dimethoxyphenol (derived from lignin) decrease after 20 days in both settings. All other pyrolysis products show no distinct change. This shows that, despite morphological changes, the bulk of the tissue, including proteins and carbohydrates (considered labile), survives early decay.
41317441|Three dinosaur footprints were found, preserved as natural casts, on the roof of a First World War tunnel in the Pasubio Massif (Trentino Alto-Adige, northeastern Italy). The Austro-Hungarian Army used the tunnel until 1918, presumably to connect the front-with the back line. The tracks are tridactyl, two of which are organized in a trackway, and provide evidence for the presence of medium-sized theropods. The track-bearing horizon is situated at the base of the Rotzo formation (Calcari Grigi Group), within shallow-water black shale deposits characterized by oligotypic small bivalves, oligohaline ostracodes, and thecamebians. Vertebrate remains, represented by crocodyloform teeth and fish scales, were also identified from the same stratigraphie portion. The occurrence of dinosaur footprints from black shale levels sheds light on their controversial interpretation, confirming the occurrence of terrestrial environment in the Trento carbonate platform during the late Sinemurian. Dinosaur tracks indicate the emersion of a sector of the tidal flat during the deposition of the basal Rotzo formation, and suggest a complex paleonvironmental scenario in which tidal flats were associated with freshwater ponds and islands.
10.2307/3514889|Inoceramid bivalves and dimitobelid belemnites from the Santonian-Campanian of James Ross Island, Antarctica, were analyzed for their isotopic and elemental geochemistry. On the basis of petrographic and cathodoluminescence studies and minor element data, the dimitobelid belemnites show minimal diagenetic modification. They have median <sup>18</sup>O and <sup>13</sup>C values of -0.45 and 2.05%, respectively. Epifaunal inoceramid bivalves from the same sequence show more intense diagenetic alteration, with cements rimming individual calcite prisms and partial neomorphism of some prism interiors. Early diagenesis of Inoceramus prismatic calcite is thought to be related to the breakdown of an original organic sheath. However, the geochemical signature of unaltered aragonite nacre and apparently partially altered prismatic calcite from Inoceramus both give much lighter oxygen isotopic values than the belemnites, with median <sup>18</sup>O values of -2.59 and -2.45%, respectively, for calcite and aragonite and much heavier <sup>13</sup>C values of 3.33% for calcite and 5.18% for aragonite. These data are interpreted in terms of a stratified water column model. Epifaunal inoceramid bivalves are thought to have lived in bottom waters where the isotopic composition was modified by pore waters expelled from the underlying compacting volcaniclastic sediments. In contrast, the nektonic belemnites were living within more 'normal' marine conditions. Paleotemperatures calculated from the isotopic composition of the belemnites give an average of 13.6<sup></sup> C for the 'normal' marine waters. However, paleotemperatures based on the inoceramid bivalve data imply considerably higher values. Thus although geochemistry is a powerful tool in paleoenvironmental analysis, habitat-related controls may significantly alter the observed geochemical signature.
40960981|In living zooxanthellate corals, photosymbiosis explains increased metabolism and accelerated skeletal growth, accounting for the success of these corals in shallow-water tropical reefs. Mesozoic corals of the order Scleractinia appeared in the geologic record during the Middle Triassic, but it was not until the Late Triassic that these corals became prominent reef buildersa change hypothesized to coincide with the advent of photosymbiosis. There is considerable discussion, however, concerning algal symbiosis and the timing of their co-evolution with corals. Thus, the beginning of photosymbiosis in the earliest corals of the Middle Triassic has not been established, nor whether their paleoecology was similar to that of modern corals. Many massive colonial reef-building corals lay down thick, discrete bands in their skeletons that record annual growth. We discovered and illustrate here growth bands in Middle Triassic corals from central Nevada, in particular Ceriostella variabilis, whose skeletal structure and bands are well-preserved in Middle Triassic biostromes of central Nevada. To test the photosymbiosis hypothesis we studied colony growth forms in these fossil corals and performed a quantitative analysis of the bands, both in C. variabilis and in a morphologically similar living zooxanthellate reef coral, Montastraea faveolata. Results of these analyses revealed growth bands and colony shapes almost identical in both living and fossil corals. These findings suggest that photosymbiosis was present in Middle Triassic corals at a very early stage in their Mesozoic history. Scleractinians were also likely zooxanthellate from the onset of their Middle Triassic occurrence but for unexplained reasons were not as efficient as modern corals in building reefs.
10.2307/3515591|Analysis of fifty-eight paleosol trace fossil assemblages, ranging from the Triassic to the Recent, allows refinement of continental ichnofacies models and the proposal of a Coprinisphaera ichnofacies. The Coprinisphaera ichnofacies consists of trace fossils of bees, wasps, ants, beetles, termites, and other unassigned insects. Meniscate burrows, mammal caves, and rhizoliths also may be present. This ichnofacies is named after the dung beetle nest Coprinisphaera, the most common component of this archetypal assemblage. In mature paleosols, the Coprinisphaera ichnofacies has moderate to relatively high trace fossil diversity and high abundance. Ethologically, this assemblage is dominated by nesting traces (calichnia) and exhibits a relatively complex tiering pattern, reflecting variable depths of emplacement of hymenopterous, termite, and dung beetle nests. Common components include the bee cells Celliforma, Uruguay, Ellipsoideichnus, Palmiraichnus, and Rosellichnus; the wasp nest Chubutolithes; the ant traces Attaichnus and Parowanichnus, and other beetle traces, such as Monesichnus, Fontanai, and Teisseirei. Termite nests may occur, but are less common components of the Coprinisphaera ichnofacies. The Coprinisphaera ichnofacies fulfills all the requirements to qualify as a Seilacherian or archetypal ichnofacies, namely recurrence in time and space, and distinct paleoenvironmental implications. Proposal of the Coprinisphaera ichnofacies is based on the analysis of twenty-eight cases, ranging from the? Late Cretaceous to the Recent. The Coprinisphaera ichnofacies characterizes paleosols developed in paleoecosystems of herbaceous communities. These herbaceous communities range from dry-and-cold to humid-and-warm climates. More detailed paleoclimatological inferences can be obtained by evaluating the relative abundance of the various traces within the assemblage. A dominance of hymenopterous traces would indicate drier conditions, whereas the presence of termite nests would indicate more humid. The Coprinisphaera ichnofacies occurs in paleosols developed in various depositional systems subject to subaerial exposure, such as alluvial plains, desiccated floodplains, crevasse splays, levees, abandoned point bars, and vegetated eolian environments. This and other potential terrestrial ichnofacies are controlled by ecological parameters (e.g., vegetation, climate, and soil) rather than by depositional processes. The association of fossil insect nests indicates the extent of soil development and, consequently, such ichnofossils are one of the best indicators of paleosols. The previously proposed Termitichnus ichnofacies was defined to include all paleosol trace fossil assemblages. However, the available information indicates that terrestrial environments are far more complex. Therefore, it is suggested that the Termitichnus ichnofacies as presently defined be abandoned because it does not reflect the diversity of paleosol settings and fails to provide significant paleoecologic information. Formal definition of a Termitichnus ichnofacies in a more restricted sense, to include assemblages dominated by termite nests in paleosols of closed forest ecosystems, should await documentation of additional studies to prove recurrence. Other fossil insect-nest associations in paleosols (e.g., halictid nests in calcareous soils) do not have enough recurrence in time and space to be considered Seilacherian ichnofacies, but do represent potential ichnofacies. The model proposed in this paper includes the paleoecologically defined Coprinisphaera ichnofacies plus a definite number of associations, each one possessing its own paleo environmental implications, which do not show the necessary recurrence to be considered ichnofacies, at present. Climate and vegetation are considered key factors in the shaping of terrestrial ecosystems and should be taken into account for the definition of additional terrestrial ichnofacies.
10.2307/3515627|New information pertaining to the biostratinomy of Uintacrinus assemblages has been derived from re-examination of museum collections and analysis of in situ material. Individuals are preserved as thin lenses in dense aggregations with articulated calyces and arms only on the lower surface, in contrast to disarticulated material on the upper surface. Calyces may be imbricated within a lens and are mostly compressed laterally. Specimens also may be preserved oral side up or down. Some specimens displaying the oral side retain soft-part preservation of the tegmen, anal tube, and ambulacra. A thin, jet black organic lamination is visible beneath calyx plates. SEM analysis reveals the presence of possible microbial spherules and filaments on this lamination. Dense aggregations reveal a number of new preservational features, including marginal indentations and lacunae that suggest cohesive behavior of the layer prior to burial. SEM also reveals well-preserved stereom in articulated crinoids on the lower surface, in contrast to the upper surface in which the stereom is apparently infilled with calcium carbonate. Some specimens retain a black, organic lamination within the crinoidal layer itself that may represent remnants of a microbial mat. It is proposed that a microbial mat of necrolytic origin provided cohesion and that microbial sealing during decay may help to explain other instances of similar crinoid preservation, including both benthic and pelagic forms, in which articulation is confined to lower surfaces.
25835614|The early Pliocene sediments of the Sa Member (Onzole Formation) are spectacularly exposed along coastal cliffs in the surroundings of Sa (northwestern Ecuador). The shellbed at the base of these strata contains rich mollusk and fish assemblages and provides a rare opportunity to document the virtually unknown Pliocene shallow-water faunas of Ecuador. Stratigraphic context, faunal composition (both mollusks and fishes), biofabric trend, ichnological signatures, and taphonomic features presented here, all indicate that the shellbed is a stratigraphically condensed (hiatal) skeletal concentration generated primarily by low rates of net background sedimentation. Shellbeds of this type, immediately overlying a Glossifungites-demarcated ravinement surface, are regarded as onlap shellbeds and record landward stratal convergence and attenuation during the earliest phases of marine transgression. Although composed of largely autochthonous-parautochthonous specimens, the fossil assemblage contains mollusk species from a range of water depths and both soft- and hard-bottom habitats, implying in situ time averaging and admixture of different assemblages as transgression proceeded on a sediment-starved shoreline. The mollusk assemblage is composed of 54 taxa (26 bivalves, 26 gastropods, 2 scaphopods), and the fish assemblage of 31 taxa belonging to 16 families. Both are indicative of a well-oxygenated marine biotope swept by currents and waves, and devoid of a benthic macrophyte cover. With the exception of a few fish species and a single gastropod, the largest number of the mollusk and fish taxa are presently distributed throughout the Tropical Eastern Pacific Biogeographic Region.
10.2307/3515350|Cretaceous-Tertiary (KT) sequences in Nuevo Len and Tamaulipas, Mexico, contain trace fossils that shed important light on the nature and duration of deposition of the KT boundary strata in that region. The KT clastic sequence in northeastern Mexico typically is divided into three distinct sedimentary units which represent distinctly different depositional events. Unit I is an unbioturbated, laminated deposit of alternating smectite grains and calcite spherules. Unit II is a sandstone that is mostly unbioturbated, but a few spherule-filled burrows occur near the base of the unit. Several burrows were truncated by overlying sand layers within Unit II, indicating that they were excavated following deposition of the first sand layers and then filled with spherules, scoured, and overlain by more Unit II sand. Unit III consists of alternating sandstone, siltstone, and shale that contain abundant trace fossils, including Chondrites, Ophiomorpha, Planolites, and Zoophycos. The nature of the trace fossil occurrences attest to at least three successive colonization episodes of the accreting substrate. The sandstone beds of Unit III were deposited episodically, and burrowing occurred during the period of deposition, not after deposition had ceased. The burrows were filled with late Cretaceous sediment. Trace fossil evidence indicates, therefore, that the entire KT clastic sequence must have been deposited over a long period of time. If the spherules in Unit I are material derived from an extraterrestrial impact, that impact must have predated the extinction of Cretaceous plankton by a significant time interval, which is represented by the periods of deposition of Units II and III. The ichnologic information indicates episodic deposition of Units II and III over an extended time period. Thus, the event that produced the calcite spherules in Unit I is not directly related to the Cretaceous plankton extinctions at the KT boundary, which occur at the top of Unit III.
10.2307/3514732|Six widely separated areas with Upper Ordovician strata in Canada and the United States are compared with six localities in southern China. Cyclic sedimentation, including evaporites, carbonates, and phosphatic black shales, occurred in relatively shallow epicontinental seas of North America. As many as three Ashgill cycles of regionally different styles may have been coeval throughout North America in response to modest changes in sea level. Environments in South China primarily included carbonates and black shales with a far more uniform distribution. Absence of comparable sedimentary cycles confirms that the platform bathymetry of South China was consistently deeper than in North America. The almost complete exposure of North China (Sino-Korean Plate) by Late Ordovician time underscores the fact that independent cratons have different bathymetric histories. By mid-Silurian time, South China also was fully exposed. Such hypsographic variation is critical to the intercontinental correlation of features related to eustasy, water chemistry, and even the patterns of extinctions.
10.2307/3514896|'Ichnofabric' may be the more popular term, but bioturbate texture remains a valid senior synonym for describing the sedimentary record of bioturbation.
10.2307/3515472|Ichnofossils typically are well expressed at bed transitions within rhythmically bedded marine sequences, owing to high contrast between ambient sediments and burrow fills derived from overlying layers. These piped zones can provide important information on paleoenvironments, paleoceanographic mechanisms responsible for depositional cyclicity, and tracemaker behavior. This is illustrated via quantitative analysis of piped-zone ichnofabrics at the transitions between chalk and marl beds within the Campanian Demopolis Chalk, western Alabama. The Demopolis Chalk is characterized by an ichnocoenosis dominated by Anconichnus, Chondrites, Planolites, Taenidium, Teichichnus, Thalassinoides, and Zoophycos. This ichnocoenosis reflects deposition in a quiet, well-oxygenated outer-shelf setting and indicates that redox and scour cycles were not important controls of carbonate cyclicity. A statistically significant positive relationship is observed between piped-zone burrow densities and carbonate contents of overlying strata. This relationship, when modeled in the context of fluctuations in sedimentation rate and associated changes in the residence time of sediment in the zone of active bioturbation, is consistent with a clastic-dilution mechanism for carbonate cyclicity. The sediment fills of most piped-zone ichnofossils can be readily linked to ambient and/or overlying sediments. These linkages, combined with relationships among burrow densities, carbonate contents, and, indirectly, organic carbon contents of associated sediments, provide evidence for animal behavior. Such relationships in the Demopolis Chalk support the surface detritus feeder model for Zoophycos and invalidate previous interpretations of Taenidium and Teichichnus, at least for some pelagic carbonate substrates.
10.2307/3515358|In addition to its well-known banded iron formations, the late Archean to Paleoproterozoic Hamersley Group of Western Australia contains substantial volumes of thinly laminated carbonaceous shale and carbonate lutite. Locally, some of the laminae in these carbonates are deformed into highly distinctive folds in pockets whose cross-sections range up to about 2 cm in height and 10 cm in length. Individual folds consistently have circular hinge zones and vary in shape from simple buckles to recumbent, elastica, and even spiral geometries. Based on the strength and flexibility with which they responded to soft-sediment deformation, we infer the deformed carbonaceous laminae were bound by cohesive microbial mats. We propose the name roll-up structures for these features as they differ in subtle but important ways from most previously described soft-sediment deformation structures. Roll-up structures only occur in lutites deposited below wave base and are absent from peritidal deposits, suggesting that the microbial mats involved may not have been based on photosynthesis. Large portions of the deep sea floor could presumably have been stabilized by mats built by heterotrophic or chemoautotrophic microbes prior to the Neoproterozoic, given the lack of both predators and competing algae. Roll-up structures are potentially useful as indicators of deposition below wave base, but very few candidates have been reported anywhere else save for the coeval carbonates of the Transvaal basin of South Africa. The paucity of other examples, particularly in younger strata, means that either roll-up structures have simply not been distinguished from other types of soft-sediment deformation structures, or the microbes and/or environmental conditions required to make them are a rarity in Earth history.
10.2307/3514706|Shell beds in a Cretaceous lagoonal fill resulted from a combination of low sediment input, high organic productivity, and reworking by storm processes. The skeletal concentrations occur in a shelly shale unit 2-3 m thick in the upper sandstone member (Late Cenomanian) of the Dakota Formation of northeastern Arizona. The shell beds are parautochthonous relics of a former brackish-water community dominated by the infaunal suspension-feeding bivalve Caryocorbula ovisana. Analysis of 74 samples and more than 12,000 specimens allows subdivision of this association into four subsets characterized by the bivalves Flemingostrea prudentia/Anomia ponticulana, Brachidontes filisculptus, and corbulid sp. A, and the gastropod Voysa sp. Biostratinomic, sedimentologic, and paleoecologic data allow reconstruction of a stratified brackish-water lagoon system. Saline, low-oxygen waters below storm wave base occurred at least locally in deeper parts of the lagoon system and were characterized by a monospecific assemblage of lucinid bivalves. The low-oxygen water was overlain by brachyhaline waters that were below fair-weather wave base, but were within the reach of storms. This habitat supported a moderately diverse fauna of benthic molluscs. The lagoon was capped by water of strongly reduced salinity (mesohaline regime) and contained a very low diversity fauna. Progradation of the low-energy lagoonal shore resulted in the establishment of nonmarine environments in some parts of the lagoon. This sequence is overlain by reworked barrier-bar sands deposited during the ensuing transgression
10.2307/3515345|Fluctuations in the input of organic matter into a deep-sea environment can be deciphered from ichnofabrics if the continuous processes of hemipelagic sedimentation and bioturbation are episodically interrupted by turbidite deposition. Below turbidites, the bioturbated zone may be preserved almost intact; the benthic food content in such frozen tiers can be interpreted from the ethology, size, penetration depth, and density of trace fossils. Especially high benthic food content is characterized by (1) dark sediment color, (2) complete bioturbation, (3) high density of burrows produced near-surface in several levels, (4) rarity or absence of graphoglyptids, and (5) deep tiers completely bioturbated by feeding burrows having an open connection to the surface. Oxygen-deficiency can be eliminated as a reason for the black color of the sediment; the size, diversity, and penetration depth of the trace fossils are similar to that of modern and fossil counterparts formed under well-oxygenated settings that are not restricted in benthic food. An increase in sedimentation rate enhances the burial of benthic food and is indicated by the downward extension of the bioturbated zone and by increasing burrow density. Our analysis suggests that several other black shale occurrences may result from increased organic matter input rather than from water-column anoxia due to sluggish circulation. Our model is supported by similarities with other deposits that contain many frozen tiers.
10.2307/3514677|The anomalous Leiorhynchus brachiopod fauna of the Upper Devonian Geneseo Shale, formerly considered an epiplanktonic biota, is here reinterpreted as a gregarious and opportunistic epifaunal suspension-feeding assemblage that inhabited dysaerobic environments within the Appalachian Basin. This reinterpretation is based on detailed paleoecology, petrography, x-radiography, scanning electron microscopy, and organic analyses of the upper portion of the Geneseo Shale. Available evidence indicates a reclining mode of life for Leiorhynchus quadracostatus, with the brachial valve oriented up. Abundant Leiorhynchus occur in aggregates or clumps with a mean density of 14/m<sup>2</sup>. The zone of abundant Leiorhynchus also correlates with the highest measured weight percent of organics (6.0%) within the section. The Leiorhynchus are also strongly aligned to a weak current within the basin; mean direction of Leiorhynchus beaks is 42<sup></sup>, mean hinge direction is 122<sup></sup>. The presence of a weak current is also supported by small-scale cross-laminations and small starved ripples in silty layers. These suspension-feeding gregarious brachiopods may have obtained some benefit from occupying the fringes of an ancient oxycline. Water-mass stratification makes probable the development and propagation of internal waves and their interaction with sediments at sites where the waves strike the sea floor (Woodrow, 1985). Material suspended by these internal waves may have contained abundant organic matter and bacteria that accumulated on the fringes of the oxycline boundary, creating an ideal situation for gregarious, opportunistic suspension-feeding taxa capable of withstanding lower oxygen levels.
10.2307/3515490|Columnar buildups found in a tidal channel off Lee Stocking Island, Exuma Cays, Bahamas, have been interpreted as modern giant stromatolites growing in a subtidal normal marine environment. However, these organically-formed columns reveal three discernible internal structures: (1) prokaryotic stromatolites comprised of alternating layers of coarse-grained ooids and peloids, and fine micrite that formed exclusively by microbial activity; (2) eukaryotic stromatolites comprised of microbially-induced micritic layers alternating with detrital layers accumulated, bound, and cemented by eukaryotic algae; and (3) thrombolites displaying irregular, clotted fabrics and formed by microbes, algae, and metazoans. Phanerozoic thrombolites, in contrast, have been interpreted as unlaminoted stromatolites constructed by cyanobacteria. Eukaryotic organisms overgrow all of the columns at present. Thus, the contemporaneous formation of prokaryotic stromatolites, eukaryotic stromatolites, and thrombolites under identical conditions within the present environment appears unlikely. We suggest that the prokaryotic stromatolites represent forms that began to develop in an intertidal setting with the Holocene flooding of the Great Bahama Bank. The thrombolites, however, began to form under the present, normalmarine subtidal conditions. The eukaryotic stromatolites represent intermediate forms between prokaryotic stromatolites and thrombolites. There is evidence for a gradual change from stromatolite to thrombolite reefs associated with rising sea-level. With the deepening, there would have been a decrease in salinity, an increase in energy, and possibly an increase in nutrient supply; all factors that favor thrombolite growth. We propose that the co-existing stromatolites and thrombolites found off Lee Stocking Island did not grow contemporaneously, but reflect a response to changing environmental controls with changing sea-level.
10.2307/3515151|Burrowing ability of 21 species of clams from Oregon, New Jersey, and Scotland was determined in each sieved sediment ranging from fine gravel to mud in half phi increments. A burrowing rate index (BRI), which normalizes burrowing time for specimen mass, was calculated for each species in each sediment. Skewness and kurtosis of the profile of average BRI's across the range of grain sizes was used to categorize species as substrate generalists, substrate sensitive, or substrate specialists. Substrate generalists (Anadara ovalis, Mercenaria mercenaria, Astarte sulcata, Venerupis decussata, Venus striatula, Venus casina, Mya arenaria) burrowed slowly into a wide range of grain sizes. Burrowing rate gradually diminished in progressively coarser and finer grained sediments away from the optimum grain size, producing a platykurtic (genty arching) BRI profile. Substrate specialists (Spisula solida, Nucula sulcata, Cardium edule, Abra alba, Cultellus pellucidus) burrowed rapidly in a very limited range of grain sizes, but failed to burrow into either or both grain size extremes, thereby producing leptokurtic (peaked) BRI profiles. Substrate sensitive species (Donax variabilis, D. vittatus, Tellina (Angulus) tenuis, Ensis directus, Clinocardium nuttalli, Protothaca staminea, Petricola pholadiformis, Macoma nasuta, Scrobicularia plana) penetrated a wider range of grain sizes than specialists, although burrowing rates are slower at the coarse textured extreme in comparison to generalists. In San Francisco Bay and Mississippi Delta habitats, generalists (Anadara, Mercenaria, Mya) occur commonly in most sediment categories and show high mean percent occurrence and low coefficient of variation from the seven and eight sediment-influenced molluscan communities, respectively. Substrate specialists (Spisula, Nucula) and some sensitive taxa (e.g., Petricola) are sediment-restricted, show fidelity to one or two communities, have low mean percent occurrence, and high coefficient of variation. Substrate generalists (Anadara trilineata, Mya arenaria,), and species transitional with generalists (Macoma nasuta), based on experimental data on either conspecific or congeneric individuals, show high mean percent occurrences and low coefficient of variation in the Pliocene Pecten Zone communities of the San Joaquin Formation of the Kettleman Hills, California. Generalists show stratigraphic persistence, i.e., they are found in 12-14 of 20 successive biostratigraphic units in the Etchegoin and San Joaquin Formations, whereas specialists (Spisula, Acila (Nucula)) are never found in more than four biostratigraphic units.
10.2307/3515200|Functional morphology of echinoids, particularly spatangoids, from the Eocene rocks of Egypt suggests a fauna strongly dominated by individuals of species tolerant of fine, impermeable bottom sediments. This might be predicted from the extreme dominance of muddy sediments in the Egyptian Eocene apparent in published sedimentologic studies. Species diversity, in contrast, is about equally distributed between mud-dwellers and sand-dwellers. Thin sections of the strata enclosing the echinoids confirm inferences of sediment type based on functional morphology. In the Lower Libyan (Ypresian) rocks, nearshore sediments contain low diversity faunas with abundant sand-dwellers. More seaward sediments contain high diversity communities of predominantly mud-dwellers. In the Upper Libyan (probably Ypresian) rocks, few species occur, and most are interpreted as sand-dwellers. Curiously, however, published sedimentologic studies of upper Libyan rocks suggest strong dominance by muddy sediments. Middle Eocene (Lower and Middle Mokattamian-Lutetian and Bartonian) rocks have echinoid faunas dominated by mud-dwellers. No obvious geographic pattern exists to their distribution, except a vague tendency for terrigenous bottoms to have faunas slightly different from carbonate bottoms. Upper Eocene (uppermost Middle and Upper Mokattamian-Priabonian) rocks in Egypt represent only very nearshore facies, and are therefore dominated by a low diversity fauna of sand-dwelling echinoids. The few sand-dwellers, particularly in the Middle Eocene and possibly excepting those of the Upper Eocene, are usually associated with nummulite build-ups. They may have inhabited the sandy crests of these lithosomes, as well as occasional storm-generated sands, on what was otherwise a very muddy shelf.
40606449|Fossil gastropod egg capsules have rarely been reported from the fossil record. This paper describes gastropod egg capsules preserved exclusively on cardiniid bivalves from Lower Jurassic (Hettangian) deltaic deposits of the Holy Cross Mountains area, central Poland. In most instances, only the bases of the egg capsules are preserved as dark outer rings with hollow cavities inside. Some specimens, however, are preserved as dark circular spots or even shallow depressions on the bivalve molds. The general occurrence, morphology, size and composition of the egg capsules as revealed by Energy Dispersive Spectroscopy (EDS) analyses and elemental mapping point to neritimorphs as the most probable producers. The egg capsules are composed primarily of organic matter with some calcium. Recent neritid gastropods possess aragonitic spherules within the egg capsule walls composed of conchiolin or chitin, which strengthen them and increase their chance of fossilization compared to egg capsules of other gastropods. Recent neritids lay their egg capsules on mollusk shells as well. The occurrence of Early Jurassic egg capsules only on redeposited cardiniid bivalve shells may suggest that the shells were the best medium for egg-capsule deposition. The occurrence of egg capsule bases together with dark circular spots, interpreted as compressed unhatched capsules, suggests that these egg capsules either hatched or were deposited at different times in the same place. The Early Jurassic egg capsules were preserved due to the strengthening role of the carbonate phase within the wall and rapid burial coupled with limited bioturbation in deltaic settings. The prodelta-delta front depositional environment, with high rates of sedimentation by rivers and sediment redistribution by wave and current action, was favorable for preserving these fossils.
10.2307/3514555|The use of carbonate nodules as paleoenvironmental indicators is generally based on examples of modern nodule growth. Although nodules are found in both shallow- and deep-water environments, research on their composition, formation, and depositional setting has been limited almost exclusively to shallow depths. The lack of deep-water studies results primarily from the logistical difficulties associated with research below 20-30 m. Consequently, interpretation of fossil deposits containing carbonate nodules may be biased by our lack of knowledge regarding nodule formation in relatively deep-water habitats. Recent observations of carbonate nodule growth on Florida's outer shelf reveal the processes by which carbonate nodules may form in a relatively deep (35-65 m), quiet-water setting. Observations in situ and examinations of internal nodule structure indicate that encrusting organisms-primarily the foraminifera, Gypsina vesicularis, and various coralline algae genera-grow on a nodule's upper as well as lower surfaces. Nodule formation may therefore be facilitated by slight repositioning rather than complete overturning. On Florida's outer shelf, repositioning of nodules occurs (1) frequently as a result of intense biologic activity at the sea floor, and (2) infrequently as a consequence of physical transport during hurricane-strength storms or periodic surge events. These findings suggest that in addition to the traditional association with shallow-water habitats and physical turbulence, fossil carbonate nodules may be indicative of a relatively deep, quiet-water setting characterized by persistent bioturbation and occasional near-bottom flow.
10.2307/3514446|Both level-bottom communities (Ziegler, 1965) and proximality trends (Aigner, 1985) may be used to interpret relative bathymetry. How do the two methods compare? Lower Silurian strata of the Oslo Region were deposited in a trough on a storm-dominated epicontinental shelf. In the Lower Llandovery both level-bottom communities and proximality-trend analysis can be used to infer an onshore-offshore gradient out from a barrier system at two different sites for construction of two separate paleobathymetrical curves. There is good biostratigraphic correlation and the offshore and nearshore bathymetrical curves compare well. The curves may also be correlated with eustatic sea-level changes found in North America and elsewhere. In addition, the analysis reveals local tectonic movements. There was a general, slow tilting of the basin through Rhuddanian and Aeronian times that diminished the gradient of the slope. Use of proximality trends has some limitations in tectonically active areas. Use of level-bottom communities requires a fossiliferous sequence. Using some care, however, both methods may be used, preferably in combination. Some of the traditional Lower Silurian level-bottom communities (Ziegler, 1965) can be placed in the shelf zones of Aigner and Reineck (1982). The Clorinda and the Stricklandia communities occurred in the shelf mud zone, the former mainly under storm-wave base and the latter from slightly over storm-wave base to the transitional zone. The Cryptothyrella community began in the lower transitional zone, but probably continued farther landward. A new transitional formation, the Slabonn-Solvik Formation, and a new member, the Sylling Member, are defined.
10.2307/3515302|Carbon allocation to different tissues and organs of Late Pennsylvanian-aged coal-swamp plants was determined for the first time through study of coal balls from the Calhoun coal of central Illinois. Coal balls are concretions that preserve the original peat fabric of the coal seam; they occur within the coal matrix and generally are permineralized with calcium carbonate. Coalified plant cell walls are preserved within the mineral matrix of the coal ball, entombed within the calcium carbonate. Relative carbon allocation was determined by separation of the mineral matrix and organic carbon. Carbon content was determined for replicates of tissues or organs of Psaronius tree ferns, Medullosa pteridosperms, the lycopsid Sigillaria approximata, the small fern Botryopteris forensis, and "whole peat". Unit volume results for tissues and organs were normalized for trunk sections 45 cm in diameter and 1 m long. Psaronius tree ferns were significantly "cheaper" than all other plants due to the large mantle of aerenchymatous roots that made up the bulk of the trunk. Medullosans and small ferns were most "expensive", with the arborescent lycopsid in between. Relative expense of construction closely parallels the inferred ecological role of each plant within ancient coal swamps, deduced from distributional patterns and indicators of habitat conditions. Tree ferns and lycopsids are colonists, medullosans are site occupying forms.
3515863|Time-averaging can be a major obstacle in reconstructing fine-scale ecological processes in the fossil record. This study presents a technique, Neighbor Proximity Analysis that attempts, despite time-averaging, to elucidate fine-scale ecological information on a single bedding plane. The technique takes advantage of the tendency for most sessile organisms to cluster in conspecific clumps, and assumes that time-averaging will tend to overprint patterns of conspecific clustering given sufficient time. The fossil species of interest is mapped onto an appropriate grid, point-counted, and the number of conspecific neighbors for each individual is counted. The community distribution is then permuted randomly for multiple iterations; and for each iteration, the number of randomly generated conspecific neighbors is compared to the observed number of conspecific neighbors. Taxa that exhibit clustering greater than expected under the random model probably clustered in life, revealing features of the local spatial structure. An example of the method is presented, using bedding planes from the Rapid Member of the Little Cedar Formation at the Devonian Fossil Gorge, Coralville, Iowa. The results indicate that of the common brachiopod present, Spinatrypa bellula clustered conspecifically during life.
10.2307/3515313|Most taphonomic analyses of vertebrate remains have focused upon physical processes. Chemical processes only rarely are addressed, leaving a large untapped store of quantitative taphonomic information contained within the bones themselves. In this paper, the rare earth element (REE) signature of fossil bones in terrestrial deposits is shown to be controlled by the early diagenetic environment. Thus, bones fossilized in different early diagenetic environments may be separated by their distinct REE signatures. Furthermore, the variation of REE patterns developed in individual bones within an assemblage is controlled by sedimentologic and taphonomic processes. Hence, the degree of mixing and reworking (relative time and space averaging) of vertebrate elements within a particular assemblage may be determined from the REE patterns of the interred bones. REE geochemistry represents a new and powerful taphonomic tool.
10.2307/3515254|Middle Devonian (Eifelian and early Givetian) brachiopod and coral faunas of the Bohemian Prague Basin and Moravian elechovice and Horn Beneov regions, Czech Republic, are essentially dissimilar to each other, although the trilobites of the Prague Basin and Horn Beneov show some similarity. Apart from their mutually low similarity, expressed by the Otsuka Coefficient, each of the Czech faunas is comparable to faunas of other regions, particularly to the Rhenish Slate and/or Harz mountains. Although some of the differences among the respective Bohemian Massif faunas are mostly facies-controlled, they also appear to be a consequence of dispersal patterns of larvae by marine surface currents. Shallow water benthic communities show that oceanic circulation at this time could have been restricted by land masses, and perhaps by quite disjunct regions that have since been juxtaposed. As the Bohemian massif approached southern Laurussia, a progressive exchange of faunas from both shelves took place. It appears, moreover, that from late Emsian to the present there was not a significant separation between North Africa and Europe.
10.2307/3514448|Sweet's prototype 1970 Lower Triassic conodont zonation based on collections from West Pakistan stimulated worldwide studies of equivalent faunas. In the western United States, however, recognition of many of the Tethyan zonal forms was delayed by an early research emphasis on Lower Triassic nearshore paleoenvironments in the Great Basin. An ongoing regional study of the entire Lower Triassic depositional basin in western United States establishes a commonality of North American conodonts with those of Eurasia, and clarifies the distribution pattern of mid-Scythian conodonts in the Rocky Mountains and Great Basin. Seldom-reported Neospathodus kummeli and Neospathodus pakistanensis are present in a crescent-shaped "basinal" region along the depocenter trend centered in southeast Idaho. Recent modification of the Lower Triassic conodont zonation by Sweet and Bergstrm utilizing graphic correlation has created an evolving but workable worldwide tool, and all nine Scythian zones are now recognized in the western United States. Many conodont species, as well as other marine biota, were effectively dispersed across a 20,000 km equatorial span of the Early Triassic seaway, and inhabited both the eastern and western shores of Pangaea.
3515876|The study of Upper Cretaceous and Lower Paleogene benthic foraminifera from the Bidart section (SW France) provides detailed data on the paleobathymetry as well as paleoenvironmental conditions across the Cretaceous/Paleogene (K/Pg) boundary. A quantitative analysis of benthic foraminiferal assemblages from the Upper Maastrichtian Abathomphalus mayaroensis Biozone and the Danian Guembelitria cretacea, Parvularugoglobigerina eugubina, and Parasubbotina pseudobulloides Biozones was performed. Benthic foraminifera indicate that the upper Maastrichtian and lower Danian sediments at Bidart were deposited in the upper-middle part of the slope. Benthic foraminiferal assemblages indicate mesotrophic conditions during the late Maastrichtian and a strong decrease in the food supply to the sea floor coincident with the K/Pg boundary. This change in the trophic regime was related to the collapse of the food web triggered by the mass extinction of calcareous primary producers. Benthic assemblages in the lower Danian are strongly dominated by few species, and suggest that primary productivity was dominated by blooms of non-calcareous primary producers, creating a stressful environment for the benthic fauna. The faunal turnover, together with the geochemical evidence, is compatible with an asteroid impact scenario. Benthic foraminiferal assemblages suggest that primary productivity had not completely recovered more than 200 kyr after the K/Pg boundary event.
25835603|The Fossil Forest Research Natural Area (FFRNA) in New Mexico is the site of an exceptionally preserved fossil forest of Campanian age. This study combines paleoecological, taxonomic, and sedimentological analysis, together with GIS mapping of 68 fossil tree stumps and nine fossil logs, in order to provide a detailed description of this forest. Wood analysis of stumps illustrates that the forest is almost exclusively composed of conifers most likely related to the Cupressaceae. Reconstruction of the forest indicates that the conifers were mature and widely spaced, creating an open canopy woodland; however, leaf litter directly associated with the fossil woodland has not been preserved, so the detailed composition of its understory remains enigmatic. Analysis of the substrate in which the stumps were rooted suggests that trees grew in a gley soil under wet floodplain conditions. Mean sensitivity analysis of growth rings in the stumps indicates that small-scale environmental disturbances on the floodplain, such as periodic flooding, or regional environmental disturbances, such as volcanism, disrupted wood production. The death of the woodland was probably due to waterlogging and burial by suspended sediment associated with flooding. Despite the presumed dominance of angiosperms in disturbed, riparian environments during the Late Cretaceous, this study indicates that conifers were still dominant in some subenvironments at this time and could form mature open canopy woodlands on wet unstable floodplains.
10.2307/3515179|Paleogeographic reconstruction requires determination of spatial and temporal relationships of strata that generally represent diverse environments of deposition. Construction of a paleogeographic map at a given temporal horizon requires correlation of spatially separated stratigraphic intervals, often representing divergent paleoenvironments, that were deposited concurrently. Paleogeographic reconstruction frequently is hampered owing to the fact that chronostratigraphic resolution provided by the most often used tool, biostratigraphy, is commonly insufficient for delineation of contemporaneous strata that are represented by various lithofacies which reflect disparate depositional settings. Sequence stratigraphic analysis, when integrated with lithostratigraphic and biostratigraphic studies, can be used as an aid in paleogeographic reconstruction. Major surfaces associated with depositional sequences furnish a physical stratigraphic framework that provides relative chronostratigraphic datum levels which can be used to construct paleogeographic maps. Important surfaces with inherent chronostratigraphic significance include upper and lower sequence bounding unconformities, transgressive surfaces, and surfaces of maximum sediment starvation/maximum flooding. These bracketing surfaces are used as constraints to delineate relative "time lines" at various horizons within sequences. These "time lines" are then used in conjunction with lithostratigraphic and biostratigraphic relationships to produce paleogeographic maps illustrating contemporaneous regional distribution of paleoenvironments and rock types. In the eastern Gulf Coastal Plain, the Tejas A Gulf Coast (TAGC)-4.3 and TAGC-4.4 depositional sequences of Alabama and Mississippi are used as examples to show the utility of this method. Application of the technique to strata included in these sequences indicates that this integrated approach is useful in paleogeographic reconstruction and can greatly augment the understanding and interpretation of chronostratigraphic relationships within a depositional basin that might not be resolved otherwise.
10.2307/3514759|The use of ichnologic data is crucial to the understanding of some paleoenvironmental regimes. The Cloyd Conglomerate Member of the Price Formation has been interpreted as entirely fluvial partly fluvial and partly marine bar, and entirely marine bar. Trace fossils provide data to resolve these divergent opinions. The Cloyd preserves a thin sedimentary wedge composed of a lower, regressive nonmarine phase and an upper, transgressive marine phase bearing trace fossils and a restricted marine fauna. Massive, quartz-pebble conglomerates of the lower Cloyd were deposited in fluvio-distributary systems during a regression near the Devonian-Mississippian boundary. Regressive channel systems became estuaries during a subsequent transgression. Trace fossils in the upper Cloyd constitute a mixed Skolithos-Cruziana Ichnofacies of suspension-feeding sand dwellers and deposit-feeding mud dwellers. Though not abundant, trace fossils occur most commonly in the uppermost sandstone beds of fining-upward, estuary point-bar deposits. A point-bar assemblage includes large, deep Skolithos and Cylindrichnus suspension feeders that inhabited bar slip faces. Deep burrowing behavior suggests that point-bar trace makers sought to moderate environmental extremes, e.g., salinity and temperature fluctuation and possible subaerial exposure of bar surfaces. The Teichichnus trace maker inhabited lower-energy, submerged sand flats on point-bar surfaces, possibly following channel abandonment. Tidal-flat fades composed of organic-rich silty shales with interbedded siltstones and sand-stones overlie point-bar sandstones. Well-circulated tidal-flat facies are dominated by shallow-burrowing suspension feeders in sandstone interbeds. The trace assemblage includes Arenicolites, Diplocraterion, Monocraterion, Planolites, Rusophycus?, and shallow Skolithos. A backwater assemblage includes Chondrites and Planolites deposit feeders that inhabited organic-rich, black to blackish-gray silty shales and siltstones in poorly circulated tidal-flat areas.
40606519|Modification of event beds by the burrowing nereidid polychaete Alitta virens (Sars) was examined using laboratory microcosms, to assess its importance as an ecosystem engineer in pristine sediments. In all microcosms, the nereidids modified their environment to permit longterm occupation, but different behavioral strategies and burrow morphologies were observed based on sediment characteristics and nutrient availability. Alitta virens utilized scavenging, surface deposit feeding, suspension feeding, microbial gardening, deposit feeding at depth, and cannibalism. Suspension feeding using mucus nets is used by many nereidids but has not been documented previously in A. virens; extended use of the technique may indicate low availability of biotic sediments for deposit feeding. Alitta virens typically produced burrows similar to Arenicolites and Skolithos, but morphologies resembling Polykladichnus, Planolites, Palaeophycus, and Thalassinoides were formed under differing sedimentary conditions and over different time scales. In the rock record, such ichnological diversity might be interpreted as indicating paleoecological diversity, rather than the response of one taxon to changing conditions. Alitta virens is an allogenic ecosystem engineer, its behavior changing the physical and geochemical characters of its environment. These changes, combined with the widespread occurrence and population longevity of A. virens, demonstrate that burrowing polychaetes are important ecosystem engineers in shallow marine environments, and are likely to have been so over geological time scales.
3515660|Benthic foraminiferal species abundance in samples from three Mendeleyev Ridge box cores were analyzed by cluster analysis and the newer method of SHE analysis. Previously, the latter technique only has been used on foraminiferal data from depth transects of modern surface sediment samples. Unlike most methods, which initially compare all possible pairs of samples, the SHE procedure results in a linear pattern if a sequence of samples are from the same statistical distribution. A change in slope indicates a statistical change in community structure and/or a change in species composition. The research reported herein is the first application of SHE for the purpose of identifying biozones in sediment core samples for the purpose of stratigraphic correlation. Both cluster analysis and the SHE method provided zonation within cores. However, the cluster method often produced clusters that were difficult to identify and also contained a mixture of samples without stratigraphic continuity. In contrast, SHE resulted in easily identifiable biozones and ensured temporal continuity within them. In general, the cluster analysis produced more zones than the SHE analysis. About 87% of the cluster zones and 64% of the SHE zones were correlated across more than one core. The average age range for correlated biozone boundaries among the three cores, based on radiocarbon dates, was 821 years using cluster analysis and 296 years using SHE. The sequential nature of the analysis, ease in choosing boundaries, and correlation of these boundaries across cores makes SHE the preferred technique.
27670430|The graptolitic Early Ordovician succession of the Mount Hunneberg locality, southern Sweden, shows the response of graptolite faunas to sea-level changes. The exposed interval consists of intercalated carbonates and shales at the base, grading into pure black shales in its central and upper part. This facies trend records a deepening of the depositional environment due to an overall sea-level rise. The Mount Hunneberg graptolite fauna is dominated by nearshore, shallow-marine forms found in most layers throughout the succession. Deeper-water pandemic species occur only rarely together with shallow-water graptolites but are dominant at four distinct traceable levels at Mount Hunneberg. This change in graptolite faunal composition is interpreted to indicate sea-level fluctuations. With rising sea level, shallow-water endemics and pandemics migrated landward, and deeper-water pandemic graptolites became increasingly frequent on the shelf. During the peak of the transgression, deep-water forms dominated. With falling sea level, shallow-water forms again appeared and replaced the deep-water graptolites. The four levels with deep-water graptolites at Mount Hunneberg are, therefore, interpreted to represent maximum flooding surfaces. This study demonstrates that changes in the faunal composition of such planktic organisms as graptolites provide a promising tool for recognizing maximum flooding surfaces. As these faunal turnovers are also detectable in monotonous parts of the Mount Hunneberg succession, this biofacies-based approach enables the recognition of maximum flooding surfaces even when no lithologic changes are present, enhancing the applicability of sequence stratigraphic interpretations to monotonous outer shelf strata.
20173038|How does the choice of size metric, specimen selection, and taxonomic level affect the results of macroevolutionary or ecological analyses? Four molluscan data sets are used to address this question as follows. First, the relationships among various size metrics are examined using a morphometric data set of Late Cretaceous-Oligocene veneroid bivalves. Second, the relationship between the size of bulk-sampled specimens and the size of species' type specimens is examined using bulk-sampled bivalves and gastropods from the Coffee Sand (Upper Cretaceous, Mississippi). Third, the same relationship is examined using mollusk-dominated field censuses from the type Cincinnatian (Upper Ordovician, Ohio, Indiana, and Kentucky). Fourth, the relationship between the size of the type species of a genus and median species size is examined using literature-derived measurements of bivalve type specimens from the recent eastern Pacific continental shelf. Together these data sets provide estimates of the biases imposed by measuring different kinds of specimens and using different methods of estimating body size. The geometric mean of length and height is highly correlated with more complex morphometrically based metrics and is our preferred bivalve size metric. Bulk or randomly sampled specimens are significantly smaller than species' type specimens for the Cretaceous dataset but significantly larger for the Ordovician dataset. Genus' type-species size is an unbiased estimate of median species size. These results suggest that large-scale studies can use the size of the type species of a genus as an unbiased proxy for a type-specimen size of a genus' median species, but that species' type-specimen size is a biased proxy for bulk or randomly sampled specimens. In addition, this study emphasizes the importance of using a single type of measurement within studies and suggests that combining multiple types of specimens (e.g., type specimens and bulk-sampled specimens) could lead to substantive errors.
10.2307/3515580|At the locality of La Posa, Isona, Spain, an extensive Upper Cretaceous bedding plane is exposed and exhibits thousands of ovate prints that had been interpreted as dinosaur tracks. Detailed study of these trace fossils allows the proposal of an alternative hypothesis that they were produced by the feeding activity of rays or other fish with similar behavior. Comparison with modern stingray pits from a tidal flat in Puerto Penasco, Sonora, Mexico, reveals a great deal of similarity with the Cretaceous trace fossils in their distribution, morphology, environmental setting, and associated invertebrate bioturbation. Moreover, ray body fossils are known from neighboring contemporaneous deposits. The trace fossils here are attributed to the ichnogenus Piscichnnus.
10.2307/3515304|Current velocities required to transport skeletal elements from a modern soft-shelled turtle (i.e., competent velocities) were measured in flume tests to allow the inference of their relative hydrodynamic dispersal potentials. The competent velocities of many turtle elements vary considerably when the elements are placed in different initial orientations with respect to current direction. In addition, competent velocities of some elements are highly variable even in the context of a single orientation. Thus, in contrast to data from previous experiments on mammalian bones, competent velocities of turtle elements correlate poorly with bone density. Bone shape, however, appears to exert a strong influence on the hydrodynamic dispersal of many turtle elements. Turtle bones vary considerably in their height above the substrate; consequently, for turtle species of intermediate size, the dispersal of many flat elements may be delayed by interactions with the layer of reduced flow velocity near the stream bed, while the dispersal of taller elements will not be so hindered. These results were applied to an assemblage of soft-shelled turtles from the Upper Cretaceous (Campanian) of Montana, in order to assess the degree of hydrodynamic sorting at the site. The relative dispersal potentials of many of the turtle bones tested are very different from those observed in previous flume tests of homologous elements in large and small mammals. These differences, at least in part, probably result because the boundary layer interactions of elements were likely much less variable within each of the large and small mammal species examined in earlier studies than they were among the intermediate-sized and diversely-shaped turtle elements tested here. Uncritical application of mammalian hydrodynamic sorting patterns, thus, may generate misleading interpretations of the relative abundances of skeletal elements in non-mammalian assemblages.
3515732|The composition and ecology of Late Carboniferous tropical, dryland plant communities are described for the first time. The study focuses on a 700-m-thick succession through the Langsettian Joggins Formation. Red bed units (5-110 m thick) bearing isolated pedogenic carbonate nodules occur at fourteen intervals and are interpreted as originating in a seasonally dry, well-drained, alluvial-plain setting characterized, in places, by an anastomosing fluvial geometry. A quantitative quadrat analysis of red bed floral assemblages preserved as compressions, impressions, calcareous permineralizations, and charcoal was undertaken. Cordaites, represented by woody trunks, branches, pith casts, leaves, and seeds, comprise 74% of the red bed floral thanatomass, together with minor pteridosperms and sphenopsids, and rare sigillarian lycopsids. Taphonomic data demonstrate that while fire-prone cordaite-pteridosperm vegetation dominated nearly all seasonally dry floodplain niches, hydrophilic lycopsids and sphenopsids were restricted to riparian settings where water availability was greatest. Calculation of standard diversity indices indicates that growing conditions were generally stressful, consistent with a seasonal environment. The composition of these dryland communities differs markedly from lycopsid-dominated wetland communities known from gray, coal-bearing successions at other intervals in the Joggins Formation. Sequence stratigraphic analysis of the Joggins Formation suggests that dryland communities represent the vegetation of seasonal continental-interior environments in contrast to wetland communities that grew in humid coastal settings. Repeated alternations between continental and coastal settings were caused by technically and/or eustatically driven base-level fluctuations that resulted in marine transgressive-regressive rhythms minimally hundreds of kilometers long.
10.2307/3515031|Tiering of assemblages of trace fossils produced by the inverted conveyor activity of surface deposit-feeders was reconstructed on the basis of the examples occurring just below volcanic ash layers in the Plio-Pleistocene deep-sea mudstone of Boso Peninsula, central Japan. The trace fossils include Chondrites (subdivided into five morphotypes), Zoophycos, and radiating tunnel structures named herein "star-shaped burrows." All of these structures represent storage bins for fecal material of the tracemakers. Six tiers for the Pliocene sequence and four tiers for the Pleistocene sequence were recognized. No clear-cut relationship between penetration depth of burrows and burrow size (overall and tunnel diameter) was evident. In addition, associated molluscan fossils and lithologic features are indicative of oxygenated bottom water conditions for these sedimentary basins. Consequently, tiering may not be closely related to such environmental factors as dissolved oxygen of the bottom and pore waters or partitioning of the food source in the sediments, but it represents the spatial segregation of the excretory space in the sediment. Stratification of excretory space in the sediment may indicate strategy to avoid interspecific competition of egestion and living space by the burrow-producers that inhabited the substrate simultaneously and utilized the same sea floor as their feeding place.
10.2307/3515335|We quantified the horizontal distribution of Late Cretaceous (late Maastrichtian) benthic foraminifera for 10 upper bathyal to abyssal localities, that cover a wide range of environmental settings throughout the Tethyan realm. For the first time, a quantitative faunal study is performed in order to identify and explain the differences between Late Cretaceous benthic foraminiferal faunas from the deep open ocean and from the shallower marginal seas of the Tethys. The results from correspondence analysis indicate that the main arrangement of the various sites coincides with a paleobathymetric ranking, which we consider to be primarily a reflection of gradients in trophic resources and oxygen levels. Five benthic foraminiferal assemblages were found to characterize bathymetrically and latitudinally different environmental settings within the Tethyan realm: (1) a Marginal Tethyan Assemblage (e.g., large Cibicidoides spp. and Sliteria varsoviensis) characteristic of the relatively highly fertile environment of the southern Central Tethyan margin, (2) an Abyssal Tethyan Assemblage (e.g., Aragonia spp. and Nuttallides truempyi) that signifies the more oligotrophic deep open-ocean conditions in the Western Tethys, (3) a North-western Tethyan Assemblage containing some high latitude ("boreal") faunal elements (e.g., Gavelinella pertusa and Stensioeina pommerana) characteristic of the northernmost part of the Western Tethys, (4) a Shallow Bathyal Assemblage (e.g., Bolivinoides draco and Eouvigerina subsculptura), which is composed of more or less ubiquitous taxa, and finally, (5) a Deep Bathyal Assemblage (e.g., Bulimina trinitatensis and Gavelinella beccariiformis), which also has a mostly ubiquitous distribution except for the shallow sites of the southern margin of the Central Tethys, where it is virtually absent. Morphotype analysis of the total fauna reveals distinct differences in proportions of endobenthic and epibenthic morphologies between the various sites, but a clear trend between the deep open ocean and the marginal seas cannot readily be discerned. However, a comparison of the proportions of morphotypes within the five assemblages resulting from correspondence analysis signifies clear trends between the various environmental settings. This enables us to distinguish various trophic regimes within the Tethyan realm; yet, we found no faunal indications of either true oligotrophic or eutrophic settings. We conclude that large areas of the latest Cretaceous bathyal environment of the Tethys were more or less mesotrophic in character, but nevertheless, abundance-patterns of morphogroups within each of the five assemblages were found to reflect depth-related gradients, which in turn are influenced by variations in food availability and oxygen concentration at the seafloor.
10.2307/3515046|Comparison of echinoderm faunas from two partly coeval Early Ordovician units, the Fillmore Formation of western Utah and the Ninemile Shale of central and southern Nevada, indicates that the distribution of echinoderms during the initial radiation of the Paleozoic Evolutionary Fauna was substrate-controlled. Attached echinoderms, such as crinoids and edrioasteroids, are much more common on hard substrates in the shallow-water Fillmore, whereas vagile forms, such as rhombiferans and mitrate stylophorans, are found on soft substrates in both the shallow-water Fillmore and deeper-water Ninemile. We found few intermediates or holdovers among these new Early Ordovician echinoderms, implying that the Cambrian and Paleozoic Evolutionary Faunas were most likely discrete and real and that the Ordovician Radiation was already well under way by the middle of the Early Ordovician. The commonly cited model of onshore-to-offshore expansion of newly evolved metazoan groups may be overly simplified for echinoderms because environmental factors such as substrate type appear to have controlled their distribution. Hard substrate availability represents an extrinsic ecologic cause for the initial diversification and later expansion of many attached echinoderms from onshore to offshore. Stemmed crinoids using discoidal hold-fasts first became abundant on hard substrates in shallow onshore environments, then expanded their range by developing rootlike holdfasts (or prehensile distal stems as adults) for living on soft substrates in both shallow and deeper water. This ability to exploit a wide range of substrates appears to have been a major factor in the over-whelming success of Paleozoic crinoids. Other diversifying echinoderm groups such as rhombiferans and mitrate stylophorans were already widespread on soft-substrates; they may have diversified much earlier on these substrates, or possibly they expanded from offshore, where they dominate the echinoderm fauna, to onshore.
10.2307/3514574|The skeletal tissue of 25 specimens examined with the scanning electron microscope is distinguished from the calcite cement filling the galleries by a finer crystal mosaic and micrometer- and submicrometer-sized cavities. These cavities correpond to the opaque "specks" observed in the light microscope at lower magnifications. At higher magnifications in the light microscope and in the scanning electron microscope they appear to be fluid inclusions in the calcite and some have rhombohedral outlines. None of the specimens from a wide range of ages and locations clearly shows remnants of fibrous or spherulitic microstructure, although all have well-preserved macrostructure. In species of cellular microstructure the texture of the cellules is like that of the galleries and suggests that the cellules were originally voids in the skeletal tissue about 10 micrometers across.
27670366|The terrestrial crisis that reportedly parallels the P/Tr marine mass extinction is based mainly on Northern Hemisphere microfloral assemblages and Southern Hemisphere Gondwanan macrofloral collections. It is well established that taphonomic filters control the ultimate collectable fossil assemblage in any depositional regime. Recognition and comparison of isotaphonomic assemblages are critical before conclusions can be drawn about evolutionary trends over time. Such an approach has been taken in the investigation of pre-boundary, trans-boundary, and post-boundary plant-fossil assemblages in the Karoo Basin, South Africa. Fourteen stratigraphic sections were evaluated in the Balfour and Normandien formations (Lower Beaufort Group), Katberg Formation, and overlying Burgersdorp Formation (Upper Beaufort Group). These include previously published (e.g., Bulwer, Bethulie, Carlton Heights, Wapadsberg, Commando Drift) as well as newly discovered (e.g., Clouston Farm) localities, and span the Late Permian to Middle Triassic. Fossiliferous intervals were characterized with respect to their sedimentology and plant taphonomy, and bulk collections were made at several stratigraphic levels for future evaluation of floristic and plant-insect associational trends. The depositional regimes and plant taphonomic character of assemblages change through time. Much of the Lower Beaufort Group is characterized by parautochthonous assemblages within oxbow-lake channel fills. Below the P/Tr boundary, these are replaced by allochthonous assemblages, poorly preserved in lateral-accretion deposits and barforms of relatively shallow fluvial nature. Allochthonous assemblages within the same fluvial context continue across the boundary into the earliest Triassic (Palingkloof Member and Katberg Formation, and typify the Middle Triassic where scour-and-fill structures preserve plant debris. Based on the literature, parautochthonous assemblages reappear in the Upper Triassic Molteno Formation. Hence, the change in taphonomic regime to poorly preserved allochthonous assemblages (dispersed, fragmentary adpressions) at the critical interval on either side of the P/Tr extinction event, but not coincident with, requires extreme caution when interpreting global patterns from these data. Additionally, the presence of plant fossils in the Early Triassic provides evidence for a vegetated landscape during a time when sedimentation patterns are interpreted to be the result of a land-plant die-off.
27670324|Three cores from the scleractinian coral Montastraea faveolate and one core from the scleractinian coral Siderastrea siderea from the Belize barrier and atoll reef complex, Central America, were analyzed with regard to sclerochronology (skeletal extension rates) and stable isotope geochemistry (18O and 13C). The core material covers the time span from 1815 to 2000. The four coral time series were compared with available instrumental climate data, such as sea surface temperatures (GISST), cloud cover (GHCN), and precipitation (COADS). Skeletal extension rates measured in the cores average 8.514 mm/year in M. faveolata and 8 mm/year in S. siderea. No systematic correlations between extension rates and instrumental climate data were detected. Annual variation in oxygen isotopes is 0.60.8, which accounts for monthly averages of sea-surface water temperature fluctuations of 34C. In three cores from the Belize shelf and barrier reef, negative correlations of 18O with the GISST 2.3b data were observed. Time series analyses of the oxygen isotope data in these three cores revealed a decadal periodicity (1015 years), which are attributed here to the influence of the Atlantic sea surface temperature (SST) dipole variation. Three- to six-year periodicities, indicative of the El Nio Southern Oscillation (ENSO), in the same data are only weakly developed. Carbon isotopes of shallow-water corals also exhibit negative correlations with the GISST data. It is speculated that warmer years were characterized by increased cloud cover leading to reduced photosynthesis rates in the corals. Indeed, there is a negative correlation between 13C and historic cloud-cover data. Carbon isotopes in the Belize shelf and barrier reef cores further exhibit general trends towards lighter values in time indicating the uptake of fossil fuel CO2 in the coral skeletons. A proxy data time series from a core from the restricted Turneffe Atoll lagoon differs from those of the Belize shelf and barrier reef cores, and there are fewer systematic correlations with historical climate and proxy data. This is probably a consequence of the strong influence of local environmental factors, which obliterate broader scale environmental parameters. First analyses of oxygen isotopes in fossil (Holocene) coral cores of M. faveolata indicate higher SSTs around 7,000 ybp in Belize as compared to older, younger, and modern samples.
27670593|Microfossil tubes with internal thickenings, so-called banded tubes, are a conspicuous but enigmatic element of terrestrial palynomorph assemblages of Silurian to Early Devonian age. Their biological affinities and functions are controversial. Most researchers favor derivation from nematophytes, themselves an enigmatic group of organisms that are often considered to represent early terrestrial fungi-like organisms. Here we present the first transmission electron microscope (TEM) ultrastructural analysis of these banded tubes and show that their walls are homogeneous and lack preserved ultrastructure. Gross wall structure is extremely variable with respect to the nature of the thickenings, suggesting that the tubes were derived from a variety of sources or were highly variable within the source organism. Ultrastructurally, the tubes differ markedly from contemporaneous vascular plant tracheids. We discuss the affinities of the tubes based on the new ultrastructural and structural information, and we conclude that they most likely derive from nematophytes, heterotrophic organisms with fungal-like ecology, where they served as hyphal-like structures, anchoring the organism and transporting nutrients.
10.2307/3514941|Microstratigraphic resolution is limited by vertical mixing and reworking of fossils. Stratigraphic disorder is the degree to which fossils within a stratigraphic sequence are not in proper chronological order. Stratigraphic disorder arises through in situ vertical mixing of fossils and reworking of older fossils into younger deposits. We simulated the effects of mixing and reworking by simple computer models, and measured stratigraphic disorder using rank correlation between age and stratigraphic position (Spearman and Kendall coefficients). Mixing was simulated by randomly transposing pairs of adjacent fossils in a sequence. Reworking was simulated by randomly inserting older fossils into a younger sequence. Mixing is an inefficient means of producing disorder; after 500 mixing steps stratigraphic order is still significant at the 99% to 95% level, depending on the coefficient used. Reworking disorders sequences very efficiently: significant order begins to be lost when reworked shells make up 35% of the sequence. Thus a sequence can be dominated by undisturbed, autochthonous shells and still be disordered. The effects of mixing-produced disorder can be minimized by increasing sample size at each horizon. Increased spacing between samples is of limited utility in dealing with disordered sequences: while widely separated samples are more likely to be stratigraphically ordered, the smaller number of samples makes the detection of trends problematic.
3515321|Faunal composition and diversity of macroinvertebrate assemblages in the gray facies of nineteen "core" shales of Midcontinent Pennsylvanian cyclothems confirm the offshore marine origin previously established for those shales. Diverse assemblages of only calcitic fossils that show grain corrosion at northern Midcontinent localities (Nebraska/Iowa) indicate deposition under oxic to slightly dysoxic conditions within the calcite lysocline but below the aragonite compensation depth for this particular sea. Southward (Kansas), sparser calcitic faunas indicate that "core" shales there were deposited farther from the northern shoreline in water of greater depth and less bottom oxygen, closer to or locally below the calcite compensation depth. Farther southward near the Ouachita detrital source (Oklahoma), greater influx of sediment permitted rapid burial of shelled organisms to overprint the effects of lysoclines and compensation depths. Both the originally aragonitic molluscs as well as calcitic organisms are preserved in those shales. Fine detrital grain size, radiolarian-bearing nonskeletal phosphate, and pelagic fauna (ammonoids and conodonts) further substantiate an offshore marine origin for the black "core" shale facies that is surrounded by the gray facies, and which was deposited in a probably deeper, more continually anoxic environment where most benthos was excluded.
27670484|Storm-generated event beds are an important source of paleoecological information, especially in Paleozoic strata. Storm deposition and subsequent physical and biological modification can potentially alter the diversity structure of death assemblages significantly. To examine the effects of storm deposition on fossil assemblage composition, storm beds are compared with co-occurring beds representing background sedimentation in 67 samples from six Ordovician mixed carbonate-clastic units deposited above the maximum storm wave base. In the great majority of pairwise comparisons, evenness and sampled richness are higher in storm beds than in background beds. This effect is not explained by differences in lithification, skeletal fragmentation, or in the proportions of aragonitic or multielement skeletons. The elevated diversity of storm beds can result from homogenization of fine-scale faunal patchiness preserved in background beds or may be due to taphonomic feedback. The relative importance of these two end-member scenarios can be evaluated with detrended correspondence analysis. In shallow, carbonate-dominated environments, the former appears to predominate, while the latter is more important in a deeper setting dominated by fine-grained clastics. The disparity between background beds and storm beds suggests that, at least in the Lower Paleozoic, background beds may record a higher-resolution paleoecological signal while storm beds record a more complete census of alpha diversity. Because postMiddle Ordovician increases in the depth and intensity of bioturbation may have diminished the temporal resolution and increase the faunal completeness of background beds, this disparity is not necessarily expected in younger strata.
10.2307/3514757|Modern corals from Lizard Island, in Australia's Great Barrier Reef, show pronounced dark gray zones parallel to growth surfaces. These color bands are caused by increased activity of boring algae during the dry sunny season, and hence are annual. Cyclicity in algal boring activity may therefore be used to determine growth rates and life spans of some fossil organisms, and possibly the seasons of spat settling and death. Samples of Devonian stromatoporoids from Bathurst Island in the Canadian Arctic show cycles in boring intensity which suggest growth rates of about 1 cm/yr. These results are questionable, however, because the borings cross through both the lamellae and calcite cement in the interlamellar spaces. This implies early infilling of the stomatoporoid skeleton, a process which is still in debate. Ordovician solitary rugose corals from Kentucky and southern Manitoba show marked cyclicity in intensity of algal borings preserved in the epitheca. Growth rates are estimated to have been about 2 cmlyr. Both the apices and distal portions of these corals are relatively unbored. Perhaps the larvae settled during the cloudy monsoon season, and the adults died (2-3 years later) as a result of overturning and transport by monsoonal storms. Both the stomatoporoid and rugosan growth rates are as high as those shown by modern hermatypic corals, reinforcing previous suggestions that some Early Paleozoic marine invertebrates possessed zooxanthellae.
10.2307/3514952|Despite their sensitivity to paleoenvironmental changes that typically occur as a result of sea-level dynamics, ichnofossils have received little attention thus far in sequence stratigraphicstudies. Detailed ichno-sedimentological analyses of two Lower Paleocene depositional sequences contained within the Clayton and Porters Creek Formations of western Alabama demonstrate that degree of bioturbation, general ichnofabrics, and assemblages of discrete trace fossils vary significantly between the different component systems tracts within each sequence and between like systems tracts of the two sequences. These ichnological variations reflect changes in substrate consistency, physical environmental energy, sedimentation rate, and bottom- and/or pore-water chemistry that are consistent with both the phases and magnitudes of the associated sea-level cycles. These results illustrate the potential of extended ichnological studies in the testing and refinement of sequence stratigraphie models and resulting interpretations of sea-level histories.
10.2307/3515631|This paper documents a difference in isotopic compositions between Upper Cambrian microbial and non-microbial micritic deposits and proposes implications for diagenesis of calcimicrobial deposits. The <sup>18</sup>O values (-10.98 to -8.71; average -9.88 % VPDB) of calcimicrite comprising shallow subtidal microbialites from the southern Appalachians are more negative than: (1) the calcimicrite from associated subtidal non-microbial deposits (-8.98 to -7.16; average -7.82), suggesting a different diagenetic history; and (2) estimates of Late Cambrian marine calcite values (-5 to -3 <tex-math>$\textperthousand$</tex-math>), indicating postdepositional modifications. Early diagenetic calcification of microbial deposits promoted the formation of growth cavities and borings rimmed with marine fibrous and prismatic calcite cement. Some of the voids remained open and provided pathways for fluids during later diagenesis. The microbial deposits, therefore, experienced more pronounced diagenetic alteration than the less porous non-microbial micritic deposits. The <sup>18</sup>O compositions provided invaluable insights into the influence of early lithification on the later diagenesis of microbialites and into the processes that can result in poor preservation of syndepositional marine isotope signatures in these deposits.
3515764|The diversity and abundance of bird and animal tracks preserved in Eocene strata of the Chuckanut Formation in Washington contrasts to the scarcity of body fossils. These ichnofossils were made by vertebrates that inhabited river margins, the only depositional environment favorable for track preservation. Three of the four localities described herein contain tracks from at least two different types of animals. Site SM-6 contains approximately 200 shallow circular plantigrade footprints, perhaps made by a type of archaic mammal of the Orders Pantodonta or Dinocerata. Site RU-1 yielded footprints from a small shorebird and tracks from an early equid or tapiroid. The same type of perissodactyl tracks were preserved at Site KC-1, along with a single webbed bird track, and trackways from a large heron-like bird and a turtle. Site SM-9.5 contained multiple bird tracks of a type not found at the other localities. The discovery of tracks only at Chuckanut Formation sites that expose large bedding planes indicates the importance of considering outcrop architecture during the search for vertebrate ichnofossils, and inspires the hope that similar fossils may eventually be found in correlative formations in the Pacific Northwest.
10.2307/3514731|An examination of the distributions of ammonite shell morphotypes in the Western Interior Cretaceous Greenhorn Cyclothem suggests that the varied morphologies represented by this diverse group of organisms reflect mode of life and to some extent environmental conditions. Although most ammonites apparently ranged from shallow nearshore to deeper mid-basinal habitats in the Western Interior Seaway (maximum depth about 300 m), the distributions of certain morphotypes suggest depth-restriction. For example, compressed, disc-shaped, and heavily nodose forms generally indicate bottoms shallower than about 50 m. Also, structural and morphological shell features appear in some cases to facilitate relative depth interpretations. While pelagic ammonites were sensitive to salinity, temperature, and oxygenation within the water column, nektobenthic and benthic ones may be useful indicators of oxygenation closer to the substrate. Some morphotypes are represented solely by taxa restricted to specific thermal regimes, and their changing distributions may reflect migrations of major watermasses. The distribution patterns of most morphotypes suggest that post-mortem drift was generally not a major factor affecting ammonites of relatively shallow epicontinental seas.
27670520|Raptors concentrate the remains of their small mammal prey in pellets rich in skeletal material. Stratified pellet deposits beneath longterm roost sites should, therefore, represent valuable archives of Holocene faunal change. Accurate paleoecological reconstruction from such deposits, however, requires a complete assessment of factors that may bias the ecological information that such records preserve. Three factors that could bias or obscure the community structure of a small mammal death assemblage relative to the living community include: (1) short-term transient dynamics of prey populations; (2) feeding activity of the raptors; and (3) extent of time averaging represented in individual stratigraphic horizons. Here I model (1) how much summed time is necessary for a raptor-derived small mammal death assemblage to capture a long-term (centennial to millennial) signal of relative abundance; and (2) the accuracy of the relative abundance information preserved in such death assemblages given short-term (decadal) cycling of small mammal prey populations. Results generated from an empirically parameterized model of prey dynamics assuming a multi-species type III functional response of raptors to fluctuations in density of two prey species suggest that the maximum extent of time averaging necessary to capture a stable relative abundance signal in a death assemblage is 140 years. This estimate is highly conservative, yet still remains fine enough to analyze phenomena operating at the centennial to millennial time scales critical for addressing long-term community response to habitat transitions through the Holocene. Results also suggest that the mismatch between relative abundance information in the living community and the death assemblage is generally low (<1%), except for a few specific parameter combinations that result in the population dynamics of the prey species being extremely similar to one another.
27670410|An exceptionally well-preserved fossil seagrass community occurs in the late Pliocene of the Greek Island of Rhodes. The siliciclastic deposits of the Kritika section (Kritika Member, Rhodes Formation) contain several beds of clay and fine-grained sand with abundant remains of the leaves of Posidonia oceanica. A coarser sand bed with in situ rhizomes of the same endemic Mediterranean phanerogam also was found. Samples yield a diverse skeletal assemblage of 121 species of crustose coralline algae, foraminifers, annelids, gastropods, bivalves, encrusting bryozoans, and ostracodes, some of which also live exclusively on the leaves of present-day P. oceanica. The community of organisms associated with the rhizomes is slightly poorer (57 species), with bivalves appearing as distinctively abundant components of this assemblage (21 species). An analysis of the relationships between skeletal organisms and fossil leaves and rhizomes shows that the majority of them lived together in the same seagrassvegetated environment, were transported a short distance from their natural habitat, nad buried very rapidly in fine-grained sediments, thus preserving this remarkable assemblage almost intact. The rhizomes were preserved in growth position within a coarse-grained sand trapped by their horizontal and vertical network. The fossil assemblage compares well in terms of major skeletal components with modern shallow-water P. oceanica meadows. This study also provides evidence for the presence during the Pliocene of an already well-established and widespread seagrass community with biotopes comparable to those of the present-day Mediterranean.
10.2307/3514795|The age, origin, and geologic development of outcropping sedimentary units of the continental slope and rise of the Wilmington Canyon region are assessed from analysis of foraminifera. DSRV Alvin was used to core outcrops and subcrops of strata in the walls and floors of Wilmington, South Wilmington, and North Heyes Canyons. Planktonic and benthic foraminifera were identified and counted in 34 samples and analyzed using Q-mode cluster analysis. Planktonic foraminifera were used to determine age of outcropping strata and surficial watermass conditions at the time of deposition. Benthic foraminifera were used to determine water depth of the unit at the time of original deposition. Pleistocene sedimentary units exposed by canyon incision into the continental slope appear to be in place within the resolution possible for depth assignments based on benthic foraminifera. In contrast, on the upper continental rise, units exposed in the north wall and floor of South Wilmington Canyon clearly represent a sequence of displaced blocks, three of which originated from shallower depths. The base of the north wall sequence consists of strata derived from inner and middle neritic depths (<100 m) which is overlain by a unit either slumped from nearby or deposited in situ at lower bathyal to abyssal depths. The lower bathyal to abyssal unit is overlain by a unit derived from the middle to outer neritic which is overlain, in turn, by a unit displaced from upper to middle bathyal depths. The Pleistocene strata of the canyon floor and north wall of South Wilmington Canyon are capped by a thin dusting of Recent contourite deposits. South Wilmington Canyon was incised into the upper rise during the Pleistocene after emplacement of the last slumped block. The age, climatic, and paleodepth data derived from foraminiferal information suggest that mass movement on the slope and rise is related to Pleistocene sea level lowstands and that the present morphology of South Wilmington Canyon and perhaps some other canyons in this region is a result of relatively recent canyon incision, presumably by erosional processes of turbidity flow, during the latter part of the Pleistocene.
3515762|Clypeasteroids can be very common in Recent, shallow water environments in a variety of biogeographic settings and represent important members of benthic invertebrate communities. Mass deposits of fossil clypeasteroids are also common and characteristic of many Cenozoic shallow water deposits. Their distribution and formation, however, has received much less attention than molluscan counterparts, although fossil examples are found within all three of the clypeasteroid suborders. A comparison of two mass deposits of scutellid clypeasteroids from the Miocene of the Mediterranean (Gebel Gharra section, Eastern Desert, Egypt; Alahan Section, Mut Basin, Turkey) shows common features, but also significant differences. Both were formed in high energy, coarse sandy, shoreface environments. The Gebel Gharra section consists of a thick, multi-event accumulation with numerous sedimentary features dominated by complete and fragmented skeletal remains of a single taxon (Parascutella). The accumulations in Alahan represents a single, thin, multi-taxon (Amphiope, Parascutella) deposit dominated by very well preserved, complete specimens. Both units are interpreted as proximal storm deposits based on the general sedimentary environment, clast relationships, and taphonomic features. Four factors contributing to mass deposits of clypeasteroid sea urchins in Cenozoic sediments include: (1) their gregarious nature with very high density populations; (2) their relatively robust skeletal morphology; (3) the high transport capacity of their flattened, low density skeletons; and (4) their habitat in shoreface environments which is conducive to physical concentrations of skeletal material. The presence of mass clypeasteroid accumulations is compared to other echinoderm deposits and discussed within the context of their rapid evolution in the Cenozoic.
10.2307/3515112|The physical boundaries of global Devonian transgressive-regressive (T-R) cycles are located for the first time at reference sections in central Nevada. Early Devonian (Pragian and Emsian), deepening events defining T-R cycle bases resulted in deeper subtidal facies overlying peritidal or shallow subtidal facies. Middle and earliest Late Devonian deepening events resulted in slope facies overlain by basinal facies, or deep ramp overlain by basinal facies (with or without interbedded debris flows). Brachiopod and coral biofacies changes reflect these deepening events. Environmental change also affected conodont diversity, which is highest in slope or slope-derived deposits. Icriodus is poorly represented or absent in basinal facies in the Middle Devonian of central Nevada. Conodont zonal correlations for the defining deepening events are: Ia, base of sulcatus Zone; Ib, approximately base of dehiscens Zone; Ic, high in serotinus Zone; Id, mid costatus Zone revised from low in australis Zone; Ie, mid kockelianus Zone; If, upper ensensis Zone; IIa, in Middle varcus Subzone; IIb, approximately base of norrisi Zone. The deepening event at the base of the Woodpecker Limestone in Nevada is at the base of T-R Ie, revised downward from the base of T-R If. It correlates with the Delaware-Oatka Creek deepening in Ohio and New York. The basal T-R Ie deepening also correlates with the base of the Kak Member of the Srbsko Formation, Bohemia, and with a level immediately above the top of the Man Member of the Gustalapiedra Formation, northwest Spain.
27670555|Scarcity of fossiliferous boundary sections makes the Triassic-Jurassic biotic crisis the most enigmatic of the five major Phanerozoic faunal turnovers. We report a bivalve-dominated level-bottom fauna from the Triassic-Jurassic transition in southern Tibet, which is unique for two reasons: (1) it documents the faunal turnover across the system boundary without major facies changes, and (2) it provides paleobiological data from the immediate postextinction interval. In the extinction pattern, selectivity against burrowing suspension feeders and taxa with completely aragonitic shells emerges, but no major clades or ecological groups disappeared. The earliest postextinction fauna differs in three significant ways from typical survival faunas of other mass extinction events: (1) it was surprisingly diverse, (2) it was heterogeneous (Simpson D = 0.1078) without dominance of disaster taxa or opportunists, and (3) there was a prevalence of highly specialized, morphologically complex forms reaching normal growth sizes. In spite of these unusual features, extinction of typical Triassic taxa occurred comparatively sharply within the underlying beds. These findings support scenarios of relatively short environmental disturbances triggered by the volcanic activity of the Central Atlantic Magmatic Province, which led to rapid extinction of taxa but did not impose ongoing environmental stress on the survival fauna. The nearly instantaneous recovery of level-bottom faunas is in sharp contrast to a prolonged reef eclipse, which probably indicates both higher extinction rates of reef-organisms and intrinsic limitations to the tempo of recovery due to their high level of co-evolution.
40865492|Modern stalked crinoids represent a relict fauna of once considerably higher diversity, as seen in their extensive fossil record. Comatulid crinoids, which lack a stalk and dominate modern crinoid diversity, have been interpreted as an evolutionary success story due to the increased mobility afforded by stalk loss. This mobility includes effective crawling and also swimming, often interpreted as anti-predatory escape strategies. Until recently it was assumed that stalked crinoids were incapable of active locomotion, but observations of an extant isocrinid have demonstrated that some can crawl relatively rapidly, perhaps in order to escape from benthic predators. Because the mechanics of crawling in stalked crinoids resemble the mechanics of swimming in comatulids, it is worth investigating whether a stalked crinoid would be capable of swimming. The feasibility of this scenario is tested using a biomechanical model of swimming in a stalkless crinoid and by applying the model to a stalked crinoid. The model demonstrates that the stalk imposes a heavy burden that limits the ability of a stalked crinoid to swim. Evolutionarily this might suggest that stalk loss was a key innovation that facilitated swimming; however, stalk loss alone is not sufficient to allow a crinoid to swim. Swimming would have allowed greater capability for escape from benthic predators than crawling. An evolutionary scenario is considered in which swimming evolved in a stalked crinoid to allow more effective escape from benthic predators subsequent to evolution of rapid crawling, precipitating eventual stalk loss.
40606517|Spectacular accumulations of abundant bryozoan nodules (bryoliths) occur in the early Pleistocene coarse-grained, mixed carbonate-siliciclastic deposits of the Cape Arkhangelos Calcarenite of Rhodes, Greece. These bryoliths are always associated with numerous bivalves (mostly ostreids and pectinids) and serpulid worms, together with other rarer skeletal organisms. The spheroidal bryoliths vary in diameter from 1 cm to 16 cm, and those with a more ellipsoidal shape range from 0.8 cm to 22 cm in length and from 0.7 cm to 16 cm in width; an elongated bryolith of exceptional size (40 cm) was even found. The bryoliths are composed almost exclusively of the aascan cheilostome Calpensia nobilis and are nucleated on gravels, pebbles, or bivalve shells. After settlement of bryozoan crusts, the bryoliths increased in size by repeated overturning of these mobile hard substrates by longshore currents. The bryoliths developed at depths of 20-40 m on a flat shoal between emerged areas where bottom currents episodically accelerated during storms. The currents also transported the bryoliths, together with other skeletal elements, into deeper settings (40-80 m) where they could continue their growth, upward or downward, or be colonized by other organisms.
10.2307/3515459|Quantitative analysis of fossil assemblages from ten depositional sequences identified the spatial and temporal distribution of shallow and deep subtidal biofacies in Middle and Upper Ordovician strata of the Nashville Dome. Articulate brachiopods and bryozoans dominate most biofacies, although corals, sponges, gastropods, and bivalves are also important taxa that dominate biofacies locally. Temporal patterns in both lithofacies and biofacies indicate a close link between environmental shifts and faunal changes that took place over a period of approximately 13 million years. The primary cause of the environmental and biotic changes was Taconic orogenesis, which increased the flux of finegrained siliciclastics and nutrients to the epeiric seaway and affected circulation patterns by changing basin topography. Biofacies replacement was accomplished not only by taxonomic turnover, but also by wholesale changes in the dominance structure of local assemblages. Changes in dominance also occurred at the guild level, with dominance by reclining epifaunal suspension feeders (RESF) shifting to pedunculate epifaunal suspension feeders and back to RESF in concert with environmental changes. Although all major macrofaunal groups involved in biofacies replacement were affected by the changes in paleoceanographic conditions, local extinction and immigration was not synchronous among all genera, but occurred at different times for different genera. This suggests that these Middle and Upper Ordovician biofacies are composed of communities that were not tightly integrated in their structure, but rather were fluid with species and genera moving in and out of communities in response to local changes in environmental conditions.
27670421|The influence of sequence stratigraphic (base-level driven) processes on patterns derived from the fossil record is receiving increasing attention. This study explores the stratigraphic anatomy of diversity patterns across two late Quaternary fourth-order sequences deposited on the Po Plain (Italy) over the last 150 ky (i.e., the two most recent glacial-interglacial cycles). The rich mollusk fauna, dominated by extant forms, preserved as a part of well-understood eustatic cycles, offers a testing ground for exploring how climate-driven sealevel changes influence sample diversity, diversity turnover, and higher-order diversity patterns within and across systems tracts and sequences. These two fourth-order depositional sequences were densely sampled from three cores. The data (152 species and 22777 specimens from 29 Holocene and 19 Pleistocene samples) were analyzed using single-sample and multisample rarefaction techniques. In all three cores and for both cycles, sample-level diversity decreased upward within sequences: the late transgressive systems tract samples displayed the highest equitability and richness, and the highstand systems tract samples displayed the lowest diversity (the trend primarily reflects the increase in the dominance of most common species in highstand systems tract samples). This pattern is likely due to a combination of ecological, environmental, and taphonomic processes. Multisample rarefaction indicates that species turnover is more limited in transgressive phases of both depositional cycles. This trend may reflect increasing environmental heterogeneity of marginal habitats averaged within shallowing-upward successions or decreasing time averaging associated with increasing sedimentation rates during highstand systems tract phases of the cycles. The sequence and multisequence diversity levels are lower than those observed within individual late transgressive systems tracts, indicating that species turnover was minimal both within as well as across the last two glacial-interglacial cycles. This study shows that species richness and equitability patterns of the most common mollusk species track closely the sequence stratigraphic architecture of late Quaternary successions of the Po Plain.
40606428|Fossil fungi and arthropod body parts are present in one of 27 unhatched eggs in a turtle egg clutch from the Lower Cretaceous (Albian) Liangtoutang Formation, Zhejiang Province, China. The fossil fungal structures include branching septate hyphae, conidiophores supporting multiple phialides, and chains of up to five basipetal conidia (asexual spores). The morphology of the fossil fungus is similar to extant taxa within the genus Penicillium (order Eurotiales), making it the first reported intact Early Cretaceous asexual ascomycete and the earliest record of a presumed intact Penicillium. Biomineralization, a physiologic response to calcium-rich microenvironments, occurs in some extant fungi and may have facilitated detailed preservation of the fossil specimen. This rare evidence of fungal-animal association provides clues to clutch-related paleoecological interactions. The fungus-bearing egg occurs on the clutch periphery, whereas adjacent and more distant eggs show no evidence of fungal invasion. We suggest that the fungi were opportunistic contaminants invading after the egg was compromised, and the fungus failed to spread to adjacent eggs prior to burial and fossilization.
20172990|Prior to the advent of widespread bioturbation during Cambro-Ordovician times, microbial mats may have covered large expanses of the continental shelf. Evidence of matgrounds in shallow-marine settings is provided by abundant wrinkle structures in Lower Cambrian strata of the Great Basin, United States. Wrinkle structures from the Lower Cambrian Harkless Formation commonly co-occur with a distinctive assemblage of invertebrate fossils, providing evidence for the possibility of selective metazoan colonization of matground substrates. Molds of linguliform brachiopods are abundant on many wrinkle surfaces. The agglutinated problematicum, Volborthella tenuis, also is found on wrinkle surfaces and in laminations beneath wrinkle-structure surfaces. Bedding-parallel trace fossils, such as Planolites, Diplichnites, and Taphrhelminthopsis, commonly crosscut wrinkle structures, while vertically oriented trace fossils are absent. Microbial mats containing layered microbial communities would have considerably compressed stratified redox zones beneath the sediment-water interface in marine-shelf settings. Sulfidic and anoxic conditions within and beneath microbial mats would have precluded habitation by many metazoans, while those that adapted to such conditions may have found matgrounds a unique, though temporally fleeting, ecological niche. The distinctive, low-diversity fossil assemblage found in association with the wrinkle structures in the Great Basin suggests that some early animals may have been adapted to hypoxic and sulfidic conditions found in matground substrates, while others may have been physiologically excluded from these environments.
40606499|The Eocene Green River Formation (GRF) (United States) is one of the best-known and most extensively studied Konservat Lagersttte in the world. As most studies have focused on the fossil fish and plants, few studies have examined the invertebrates, particularly the ostracodes of the renowned GRF fauna. Six species of ostracodes were recovered from 18 intervals within a 154 m section of the Laney Member (LM) in the Washakie Basin (WB). Ostracode species recovered occupied a variety of biological niches, including plant and mud dwellers as well as nektonic lifestyles. Ecological tolerances of these ostracodes were used to reconstruct environmental conditions of the lake through this portion of its history. The taphonomic mode of the ostracodes varied with lithology and depositional setting. Diversity analyses show that the ostracodes from the lower and upper Laclede beds of the LM are consistent with the lakelevel fluctuation model constructed for the WB, which was based on independent, stratigraphie, isotopie, and sedimentological data. Ostracode response to changing lake conditions within the LM demonstrates an environmental tracking (i. e., coordinated stasis) of the lake-level variation. In addition, the similarity of ostracode faunas between the LM and those reported from the Uinta Basin (UB) supports the possible paleohydrologic connection of various basins with deposits of the GRF, related to the tectonic uplift and concomitant climatic change during the Paleocene-Eocene Thermal Maximum. The establishment of these paleohydrologic connections provides important constraints pertaining to the tectonic and climatic history of this region.
40960977|New observations of burrowing behaviors, nest construction, and sediment-mixing patterns of the western harvester ant Pogonomyrmex ocddentalis are described from a neoichnological laboratory study and compared with ichnofossil evidence. Fifty ants burrowed for six weeks in a glass-sided enclosure filled with silty clay simulating a soil with A, C, Ab, and Cb horizons. The galleries, chambers, and mound were mapped and digitally recorded every 12 hours to monitor nest development and changes in architecture. After six weeks the nest was cast with dental plaster to study above-and belowground architectural and surficial nest morphologies. Numerous, intricately interconnected galleries and chambers were constructed, with galleries averaging ~0.9 cm in diameter and chambers varying from ~3 to 10 cm long and up to 1.5 cm high. Burrowing behaviors included pulling, raking, pushing, forcing, cutting, and carrying. Sediment was removed from all horizons and deposited at the surface, resulting in a large mound. Sediment was moved upward and downward within the nest and used to reinforce walls and backfill galleries and chambers. Sediment mixing occurred within and between all horizons as well as from the surface down into the nest. This study demonstrates (1) that ants play a significant role in soil formation, and (2) that these modern ant structures are similar to those found in continental deposits as old as the Late Jurassic, including trace fossils composed of networks of interconnected, variably curved, subhorizontal to subvertical tunnels, some of which are larger in diameter than those described here and have been interpreted as chambers.
20172979| The Heiligkreuz-Santa Croce Formation (also known as Drrenstein Formation, Upper Triassic) in the Dolomites contains one of the most ancient and substantial Triassic amber deposits in the world. The amber is found in sandstones and paleosols. It has an affinity to the conifer family Cheirolepidiaceae, and amber samples from the Julian and Carnic Alps (Southern Alps) also show an affinity to this family. Physico-chemical investigations of the amber from the Dolomites by solid-state Fourier-transform infrared analysis (FTIR), nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR), pyrolysis-gas-chromatography / mass-spectrometry (pyr-GC / MS), thermogravimetry (TG), differential thermogravimetry (DTG), and automatized elemental analysis yielded a complete characterization of the amber, and allowed comparison with other ambers and younger resins (copals). FTIR revealed absorption bands typical of all fossil resins, and the spectrum region from 8-10 m provided a fingerprint of the Triassic amber that differs from other known resins. The NMR spectrum also shows a typical pattern for fossil resins, but peculiar peak abundances permitted further characterization of the Triassic amber, both in the saturated (10-70 ppm) and unsaturated carbon region (100-160 ppm). The amber also lacks exomethylene resonances found in younger resins at 110 and 150 ppm. Pyrolysis-gas-chromatography / mass-spectrometry (pyr-GC / MS) experiments showed the amber was of class II, with some components of Class I. Thermogravimetric (TG) and differential thermogravimetric (DTG) analyses of combustion behavior of Triassic amber indicated a main exothermal event near 437C, higher than that of other known resins. The elemental composition of Triassic amber is consistent with well-known constituents of natural resins, although the sulfur content was higher, likely due to high sulfur content in the embedding sediment. Triassic amber from the Dolomites appears to be a new kind of fossil resin with unique strati-graphical and physico-chemical characteristics. 
40606501|Dinosaurs, like modern birds, produced enormous quantities of eggshell as part of the reproductive process. Sometimes this eggshell was fossilized but most commonly was destroyed by weathering. The degree to which bacteria may have contributed to this weathering process has not been explored. In this study, fresh glaucous-winged gull (Larus glaucescens) eggshell fragments were collected from the surface of a breeding colony in Washington, sterilized, and buried in sterile soil. The soil surrounding replicate experimental fragments was inoculated with a culture of one of five species of soil bacteria isolated from other eggshell fragments collected on the colony surface. Replicate control fragments received the same treatment minus the bacteria. Weekly changes in protein concentration and fragment mass, as well as in soil pH and calcium concentration, were measured for experimental and control fragments over 10 weeks. The presence of all five types of bacteria degraded the eggshell and produced corrosion patterns similar to those seen in naturally weathered eggshell. On the basis of the results we postulate that bacterial decomposition of the eggshell protein matrix produces organic acids, which, in turn, dissolve the CaCO of the shell. The dissolved CaCO and NH from protein degradation increase the pH of the surrounding sediment. These results and interpretations are discussed in view of dinosaur eggshell fossilization. This paper provides the first evidence that bacteria significantly impact eggshell preservation.
10.2307/3514928|The preservation of graptolites as pale films is characteristic of many low grade metamorphic lower Paleozoic rocks. A study of such fossils at Abereiddy Bay, South Wales allows an interpretation of the abundant graptolite fauna under varying conditions of bedding-cleavage relationship. Similar phenomena are also documented from other localities. The bulk of the pale "fossil" seen in many of these situations is a tectonically induced silicate pressure shadow with the broken, frequently partly pyritized graptolite concealed inside. Clearly the dimensions of such fossils will not accurately reflect the original form of the rhabdosome. This has significant implications for their use in structural and taxonomic analysis.
27670496|The calcareous nannoplankton underwent a major diversification between 60 Ma and 61 Ma with the appearance of two important Cenozoic genera, Fasciculithus and Sphenolithus. We have studied the evolution of these genera at four deep-sea sites using a combination of biostratigraphic and assemblage analyses. Our data show that the first appearances of both genera are time transgressive between sites by up to 1 myr, suggesting that these taxa were highly specialized or that ocean environments were heterogeneous. The interval of diversification coincided with a major turnover among nannoplankton assemblages involving an increase in taxa adapted to oligotrophic environments and a decrease in those suited to mesotrophic settings. The opening of niche space for oligotrophs such as Fasciculithus and Sphenolithus coincides with the radiation of oligotrophic planktonic foraminifers, including the genus Morozovella. The appearance of both groups occurred about 1 myr after the recovery of the biologic pump following its collapse at the CretaceousPaleocene mass extinction. This suggests that increased export efficiency stripped nutrients from surface waters, causing a major upheaval among marine food webs.
20173024|Geospatial data collected with a Nikon Total Station from a dinosaur quarry in the upper part of the Morrison Formation in north-central Wyoming were plotted on ArcGIS ArcScene software. The resulting three-dimensional maps indicate two distinct sauropod bone assemblages with closely associated shed theropod teeth separated by a weakly developed paleosol. Consequently, previous hypotheses that all bone elements and theropod teeth in the quarry were chronologically connected are amended. Synthesis of geological and paleontological data provides evidence that a juvenile Camarasaurus was the center of feeding activity in a shallow-water, palustrine-lacustrine setting in the lower assemblage. The high ratio of juvenile to adult allosaurid teeth suggests one or two adults in the company of several juveniles during a scavenging event. A high incidence of theropod teeth in the upper assemblage suggests that another feeding event may have occurred, but data loss from initial traditional excavation techniques precludes a more detailed interpretation. Although the Upper Jurassic Morrison Formation in the western United States yields abundant sauropod and theropod remains, few sites documenting theropod-prey interactions have been reported. Evidence of theropod feeding activities has been difficult to establish in seemingly homogeneous continental deposits with traditional excavation techniques alone. Geographic Information Systems (GIS) is a valuable tool that allows paleontologists to establish chronostratigraphic constraints in complex continental assemblages, assess the degree of time averaging, and evaluate important geospatial patterns.
10.2307/3514909|In south-central Idaho, the Wood River Formation (Pennsylvanian-Permian) contains a stratigraphic megacycle over 2000 m thick that is composed of finegrained mixed carbonate-siliciclastic turbidites. Complete and partial (Bouma) turbidite structural sequences in these rocks are arranged in upward thinning cycles 15 to 30 m thick in which top-cut-out (Ta-c) turbidite facies in the lower part grade vertically into base-cut-out (Tdf) turbidites in the upper part. These cycles are interpreted to represent the autocyclic lateral migration of turbidite lobes. A mixed trace fossil assemblage of pascichnia and fodinichnia are present in these rocks and can be separated into pre-depositional and post-turbidite ichnocoenoses. Quiet-water, pre-turbidite deposits are dark-colored, laminated, and carbonaceous, and represent anoxic to dysoxic inter-turbidite basinal conditions; they contain only Chondrites traces. Turbidity currents introduced oxygenated bottom water which fostered the temporary development of a post-turbidite ichnocoenose of pascichnia which is best developed in the medial portion of turbidite beds and lobes. Trace fossil tiering shows that a postturbidite ichnocoenose of fodinichnia also developed, and persisted after the disappearance of pascichnia. Animals that produced the fodinichnial traces probably were part of an autochthonous benthic fauna rather than a shortlived allochthonous fauna. They may have migrated with the slowly avulsing turbidite lobes and exploited allochthonous oxygen and the carbonaceous food supply.
20172983|The lower Apaporis River area (Colombian Amazonia) is characterized by fluvial and coastal sediments of Middle to Late Miocene age. These sediments, here informally called Apaporis sand unit, are in nonconformable contact wiht the Precambrian basement, and were deposited in a low-sinuosity fluvial system with an anastomosing character that originated in the Guyana Shield. The predominantly sandy unit has organic-rich clay intervals that contain a palynological assemblage dominated by the mangrove Zonocostites ramonae (Rhizophora) and the palm Mauritiidites franciscoi (Mauritia). Abundant Zonocostites (25-85%), together with the occurrence of marine palynomorphs (dinoflagellates and foraminiferal inner-wall linings), indicate the presence of well-developed coastal mangrove forests and marine incursions. Occasional decrease of Zonocostites in favor of Mauritiidites suggests that the coastline fluctuated and the mangroves were replaced by palm vegetation. The Middle to Late Miocene age of these sediments is based on presence of the palynological marker species Grimsdalea magnaclavata and absence of the older biostratigraphic marker Crassoretitriletes vanraadshoovenii and the younger Asteraceae. This makes the unit equivalent in age to the upper Pebas/Solimes Formation. The marine ingression and coastal conditions in the heart of Amazonia possibly are related to a combination of global sea-level rise (Serravallian?) and subsidence in the periphery of the Guyana Shield. Modern analogues of the Miocene Apaporis fluvial/coastal interface are present-day fluvial and coastal environments in Surinam and the Guyanas.
25835605|The Ordovician is a period when novel reef ecosystems appeared along with new reef constructors and skeletal-dominated reefs. The Lower Ordovician (late Tremadocian) Fenhsiang Formation of the Three Gorges area in South China contains the oldest known bryozoan reefs (lithistid spongebryozoan and bryozoanpelmatozoan reefs) alongside lithistid spongemicrobial reefs. The latter are characterized by the dominance of microbialites that encrusted and bound the frame-building sponges and inter-sponge sediments. In contrast, the lithistid spongebryozoan and bryozoanpelmatozoan reefs are generally characterized by bryozoans that encrusted the frame-building sponges or pelmatozoans and grew to fill the inter-frameworks. These sponges and pelmatozoans did not construct the rigid frameworks unaided; their association with bryozoans enabled the development of small skeletal-dominated reefs with rigid frameworks. Skeletal-dominated reefs, for which frame-constructing and encrusting roles are conspicuous, were largely unknown before the Early Ordovician. The appearance of skeletal organisms (specifically colonial, encrusting bryozoans) enabled the development of skeletal-dominated reefs, which were pioneers in the rise of MiddleLate Ordovician reefs. The Early Ordovician establishment of skeletal-dominated reefs at the earliest stages of the Great Ordovician Biodiversification Event would have created novel niches and biological interactions that further promoted the evolution of reef-building and -dwelling organisms, as well as ensuing reef ecosystems.
10.2307/3514586|Reports on the distribution of modern Gulf of Mexico benthic foraminifera include striking examples of conflicting data. Differences in sampling intervals (0-1 cm vs. 0-2 or 0-5 cm), rather than true variations in population densities, can be invoked to reconcile these conflicts. Downcore foraminiferal trends in 10 box cores from the northwestern Gulf support this explanation and contradict the assumption that the bioturbated zone has a homogeneous foraminiferal distribution. Three groups of calcareous species are present: well-preserved (increasing downcore), moderately preserved (no trend), and poorly preserved (decreasing downcore); arenaceous species are either disaggregation-resistant (no trend) or disaggregation-prone (decreasing downcore). These trends are produced by habitats of species and taphonomic processes, chiefly dissolution. The plots of a formulated preservation index P and those of species abundances demonstrate the faunal heterogeneity of the bioturbated zone, with significant changes in the assemblage occurring in the upper 2 cm. Thus, modern distribution patterns based on a 5- or 10-cm-thick surface sediment layer would serve the purpose of benthic foraminiferal paleoecology better than those seen at the sediment-water interface.
3515783| Bulk samples are among the foremost sources of quantitative data retrieved from the fossil record. However, such samples are not sieved in a uniform way, even among research projects with a very similar research focus. Several studies recently have demonstrated the sensitivity of paleontological patterns to changes in sieve size and underscored the importance of controlling for mesh size in paleontological analyses. Building on previous work, this study exploits a large dataset of Miocene mollusks that is fortuitously suitable for exploring the effect of mesh size: dimensions of each fossil were measured, all samples were acquired with fine screens (1 mm mesh), and data for numerous paleoecological and taphonomic variables were obtained for each specimen. This large dataset was sieved artificially (i.e., subsampled in computer simulations) to explore the effects of mesh size. The results show that paleontological variables, from taphonomic and paleoecological parameters to diversity indices, can fluctuate, to various degrees, as a function of mesh size. Some parameters (e.g., evenness indices) appear remarkably invariant to mesh size, while others (e.g., encrustation rate) can vary dramatically with a small change in mesh size. Most importantly, even when the compared datasets are sieved uniformly with the same standard mesh size, outcomes of comparative analyses can lead to disparate conclusions when that standard size is changed. The mesh-size sensitivity observed here for a wide assortment of paleontological patterns points to ubiquitous influence of body size on taphonomic, ecological, and evolutionary patterns and underscores the importance of developing sampling strategies and/or corrective analytical measures for making data more comparable in terms of mesh size across and within studies. Future research also should concentrate on evaluating secular trends in size-filtering aspects of extraction methods used to acquire quantitative samples throughout the Phanerozoic fossil record. 
10.2307/3514877|Lower to Upper Silurian (upper Llandovery-Ludlow) limestones belonging to the Heceta Formation record several episodes of reef growth in the Alexander terrane of southeastern Alaska. As the oldest carbonates of widespread distribution in the region, the Heceta limestones represent the earliest development of a shallow-marine platform within the Alexander arc and the oldest foundation for reef evolution. The excellent preservation of biostromes, fringing and barrier reefs, and a mud mound in shelf, shelf margin, and slope deposits, respectively, contrasts with the restricted occurrence of many marine sediments that originated within other island arcs. Hence, these deposits provide important insights into the dynamic processes, styles, and bathymetry associated with reef growth in tectonically active oceanic islands. Massive stromatoporoids, corals, and red algae are preserved in fragmental rudstones and represent a fringing reef that formed at the seaward edge of the incipient marine shelf. Accessory constituents in this reef include crinoids and the cyanobacterium Girvanella. Small biostromes were constructed by ramose corals and stromatoporoids on oncolitic substrates in backreef or lagoonal environments. These buildups were associated with lowdiversity assemblages of brachiopods and with gastropods, amphiporids, calcareous algae and cyanobacteria. Microbial boundstones reflect the widespread encrustation of cyanobacteria and calcified microproblematica on shelly debris as stromatolitic mats that resulted in the development of a stromatactoid-bearing mud mound and a barrier reef complex. Epiphytaceans, other microbes, and aphrosalpingid sponges were the primary framebuilders of the barrier reefs. These buildups attained significant relief at the shelf margin and shed detritus as slumped blocks and debris flows into deep-water sites along the slope. The similarity of these stromatoliticaphrosalpingid reefs to those from Siluro-Devonian strata of autochthonous southwestern Alaska suggests paleobiogeographic ties of the Alexander terrane to cratonal North America during the Silurian.
10.2307/3514614|Understanding the origin of modern and fossil lacustrine species swarms has been problematic for evolutionary biologists. Various lines of evidence, primarily from studies of nonmarine cichlid fishes, suggest that a detailed analysis of dispersal mechanisms and brooding behavior in lacustrine organisms is critical to the solution of this problem. The results of studies of interpopulation variability in brooding and nonbrooding taxa from Lake Tanganyikan ostracodes support the hypothesis that gene flow between populations of lacustrine brooders may be greatly inhibited by extreme localization of gene pools. Significant interpopulation variability occurs among populations of the brooding ostracode Mesocythere irsacae in the absence of habitat barriers, whereas sympatric nonbrooding populations of a cytherideid ostracode, n. gen., n. sp. A show minimal variation over the same range. Extreme genetic isolation may cause rapid speciation and extinction in such populations, owing to the vagaries of small population sizes. Lacustrine environments tend to be geologically ephemeral and efficient dispersal is important for continual recolonization of appropriate habitats. When a lake persists for geologically long periods of time, however, selective pressures for excellent dispersal mechanisms may relax. Under such circumstances, clades of lacustrine brooding organisms, which are often poor dispersers, would radiate and suffer extinctions at accelerated rates.
40606521|Calcareous skeletons evolved as part of the greater Ediacaran-Cambrian diversification of marine animals. Skeletons did not become permanent, globally important sources of carbonate sediment, however, until the Ordovician radiation. Representative carbonate facies in a Series 3 (510501 Ma) Cambrian to Tremadocian succession from western Newfoundland, Canada, and Ordovician successions from the Ibex area, Utah, USA, show that, on average, Cambrian and Tremadocian carbonates contain much less skeletal material than do post-Tremadocian sediments. Ptrographie point counts of skeletal abundance within facies and proportional facies abundance in measured sections suggest that later Cambrian successions contain on average < 5% skeletal material by volume, whereas the skeletal content of post-Tremadocian Ordovician sections is closer to ~15%. A compilation of carbonate stratigraphie sections from across Laurentia confirms that post-Tremadocian increase in skeletal content is a general pattern and not unique to the two basins studied. The long interval (~40 myr) between the initial Cambrian appearance of carbonate skeletons and the subsequent Ordovician diversification of heavily skeletonized organisms provides an important perspective on the Ordovician radiation. Geochemical data increasingly support the hypothesis that later Cambrian oceans were warm and, in subsurface water masses, commonly dysoxic to anoxic. We suggest that surface waters in such oceans would have been characterized by relatively low saturation states for calcite and aragonite. Mid-Ordovician cooling would have raised oxygen concentrations in subsurface water masses, establishing more highly oversaturated surface waters. If correct, these links could provide a proximal trigger for the renewed radiation of heavily skeletonized invertebrates and algae.
10.2307/3515483|The latest Ordovician to earliest Silurian Edgewood Province in the cratonic interior of Laurentia contained a post-extinction coral fauna. These corals inhabited a broad range of shallow-marine, carbonate environments. Diversity generally increased along a gradient from restricted, low-energy, relatively turbid conditions, to open, high-energy, low-turbidity conditions. Changes in diversity involved progressive addition or subtraction of stenotopic species within a single association dominated by opportunistic, ecologic generalists. Patterns and trends in diversity, abundance, and distribution reflected locally variable environmental parameters and an overall gradient from the continental interior toward the open ocean. Structural characteristics of the Edgewood Province differed from those of Late Ordovician pre-extinction and Early Silurian recovery faunas in the Laurentian cratonic interior. These included the low total diversity, the abundance and strong dominance of a single, solitary rugosan species, and the lack of distinct, specialized, recurring species-associations. The origin, overall structure, and fate of the province were determined by factors operating on a broad scale. Nutrient enrichment and related environmental destabilization in the Laurentian epeiric sea during the end-Richmondian regression were probably significant factors in extinctions among Late Ordovician "perched faunas," including corals. This would have occurred as nutrients provided by runoff from expanding terrestrial areas became concentrated in the shrinking sea. During the Gamachian and early Rhuddanian, elevated nutrient levels and environmental instability within the small sea were likely instrumental in maintaining the structure of the Edgewood Province. By the late Rhuddanian, transgression had expanded the sea and reduced the effects of runoff sufficiently to permit the Silurian recovery of corals.
27670422|The diverse, well-preserved fauna of the Middle Devonian Hamilton Group of western New York has become an exemplar of long-term taxonomic and paleoecological stability and habitat tracking in response to sea-level change. Recent detailed, quantitative studies have challenged this view, suggesting instead a relatively low proportion of persistent lineages and recurrent biofacies sharing only the most abundant species; however, most studies have considered only limited geographic areas. As a result of shifting basin-forebulge positions and sedimentation patterns, analogous facies do not occur in every cycle of single geographic areas but show complex migration within the Appalachian Basin. Consequently, similarity of biofacies recurrence can only be fairly assessed by considering the most analogous facies wherever they occur across a major cross section of the basin. This paper evaluates patterns of biofacies recurrence based on samples from subsymmetrical cycles of dark-gray shale, calcareous mudstone, and argillaceous limestone. Low-sedimentation, depth-related biofacies, identified quantitatively using cluster analysis, recur symmetrically in single third-order regressive-transgressive cycles throughout the 56 myr duration of the Givetian Hamilton Group and Tully Formation at different geographic locations. Detrended correspondence analysis was used to recognize gradients of species and sample distribution both within and among depositional cycles; depth-related biofacies range from basinal, low-diversity leiorhynchid brachiopoddominated associations to highly diverse coral-brachiopod (shallow subtidal) assemblages. This pattern is also comparable to the order of species-biofacies appearances in single, small-scale shallowing-upward cycles. In addition to similarities of species richness and guild structure, given biofacies show strong similarities of species composition. Low-diversity, high-dominance associations typical of deeper water biofacies show lower similarities (60%75% species overlap), suggesting that they represent loosely structured aggregations of eurytopic taxa. Similarities are greatest in the diverse coral and brachiopod biofacies, for which most pairwise comparisons of samples throughout the HamiltonTully interval show >80% overlap in species composition and very strong similarity of richness and guild structures but not necessarily rank or relative abundance of taxa. Overall, these data suggest that gradients of species distribution in relation to environmental gradients, especially depth-related factors, were quite stable over several million years and that biofacies shifted in response to transgressive-regressive cycles. Such biofacies stability need not imply persistence of tightly integrated communities. Nonetheless, the long range of many species and maintenance of biotic gradients have important evolutionary implicationsunder relatively stable conditions, a majority of species track shifting habitats rather than adapt to changing local conditions.
10.2307/3514648|Stoloniferous holdfasts belonging to unidentified crinoids from the Ross Formation, Lower Devonian of west-central Tennessee, possess asymmetric cross sections that, along with radicles on the lower surface, indicate stratigraphic orientation. These holdfasts belong to a group of geopetal structures, herein termed biogeopetals, that are entirely organic in origin. Biogeopetals are common not only in carbonate rocks, but also in terrigenous clastic rocks throughout the Phanerozoic.
41317461|Paleoecological analyses conducted over broad temporal and spatial scales can incorporate fossil assemblages of disparate taphonomic histories, resulting in samples where the record of the original communities is biased to different degrees. Testing for the effects of differential taphonomic biases is crucial to accurate interpretations of paleoecological patterns. To test for such effects in a shallow-marine benthic foraminiferal record from the early Miocene Astoria Formation, I developed a taphonomic grading system for benthic foraminifera and scored individuals for preservation state. Grading allows each sample to be subdivided into taphonomically similar subsamples. Subsamples are evaluated for similarity in species composition, species rank, and proportional abundances. Similarities are significantly higher in withinsample comparisons between taphonomic grades than they are among samples when taphonomic grade is held constant, indicating that ecological information is conserved despite variation in taphonomic grade within a single time-averaged assemblage. In addition, taphonomically homogenous subsamples (and nested sets of taphonomic grades) capture the same temporal patterns of species richness, community evenness, and the proportional abundances, although ordinations using subsamples with the poorest preservation do show some significant differences. Thus, although incorporating the most poorly preserved samples requires some caution, the quality of ecological information derived from these benthic foraminiferal samples is consistent across taphonomic grades. For this test case, I argue that paleoecological analyses will not be significantly affected by differences in preservation among samples. This method of taphonomic grading can be applied to other fossil groups and facilitates analyses of paleoecological results despite different degrees of taphonomic alteration.
10.2307/3514570|The Cenomanian-Turonian (C-T) Stage boundary marks the second-largest Cretaceous extinction event and is one of the possibly extraterrestrially forced 26-Ma cyclic extinction events recognized by Raup and Sepkoski (1982). The C-T event occurred near the peak of a major eustatic sea-level rise characterized by warm equable climates and expanding shelf ecospace; however, no convincing physical or chemical evidence has been found to suggest a large body impact Although an extraterrestrial influence cannot be ruled out, the extinctions as seen in Arizona can be adequately explained by oceanographic and climatic changes associated with the global development of extensive epicontinental seas. Detailed analysis of the macrofauna, lithology, and carbonate and organic-carbon geochemistry through five stratigraphic sections spanning the C-T boundary in the Black Mesa Basin, Arizona, has led to the following discoveries: 1) three short-ranging biostratigraphic zones constitute the study interval, each having unique faunal components and relative abundances that define biofacies; 2) some of these biozones and biofacies are bounded by silty zones that appear to reflect periods of rapid relative sea-level rise or increased current activity relative to sediment influx, or both; and 3) the C-T boundary is not reflected by a change in grain size, but does display distinct stable-isotope, carbonate, and organic-carbon fluctuations. These data suggest that soft substrate conditions, dysaerobic to aerobic fluctuations at the sediment/water interface, and possibly reduced salinity led to biotic deterioration and a restructuring of the benthic ecosystem preceding the C-T boundary in the Black Mesa Basin.
10.2307/3514811|The oxygen and carbon isotopic variability within the calcitic shell of the Antarctic scallop Adamussium colbecki has been assessed by detailed sampling of the shell margin, an external transect along the line of maximum growth, and on the interior surface of the shell. The adult shell is largely calcitic, with aragonite restricted to myostracal deposits, an extremely thin layer of aragonitic homogeneous structure between the pallial line and the foliated inner layer of the right valve, and the fibrous ligament. No relationship between isotopic values and microstructure is apparent. Average <sup>18</sup>O values are highest for the interior shell surface and lowest for the shell margin samples. The variability of <sup>18</sup>O values is highest for the external shell surface. The relatively good agreement between <sup>18</sup>O values of exterior surface samples along the growth transect of A. colbecki and estimated <sup>18</sup>O values of calcite precipitated in equilibrium with ambient waters calculated indicate the precipitation of shell samples close to equilibrium. Because <sup>18</sup>O values from A. colbecki reasonably well reflect ambient conditions, fossil forms would likely provide useful paleoenvironmental data. However, within shell variability in <sup>18</sup>O values cautions against making interpretations based on a few microsamples. Carbon isotopic values are highly variable throughout the shell and are likely influenced by vital effects.
3515680|With the exception of the Neogene, it is difficult in much of the fossil record to measure range offset; that is, the difference in age between the first or last occurrence of a species in a local section and its time of origination or extinction within the sedimentary basin. A coupled simulation that incorporates a model of sedimentary basin fill, a random-branching model of evolution, and a model of the ecological characteristics of species is used here to explore stratigraphic and ecologic controls on range offset. Median valuesof range offset in much of the fossil record are predicted to range from several hundred k.y to a few m.y., for a wide variety of stratigraphic architectures and species ecologies. Higher than average values of range offset are favored by unconformities of long duration, rapid facies changes of large magnitude, persistent monotonic trends in facies change, increased facies specificity of species, and decreased species abundance. These model predictions can be used as a guide for interpreting field data on first and last occurrences, such as evaluating zones of likely high or low biostratigraphic precision. Similarly, these results can be used to evaluate the support for paleobiological interpretations of local radiations, migrations, and extinction episodes.
10.2307/3515642|Three localities in the Chinle Formation (Late Triassic), Petrified Forest National Park (PEFO), Arizona, provide insights into the paleoenviromnents frequented by primitive North American theropods. At the Dinosaur Wash locality, an undetermined theropod is preserved in paleosols that indicate a transition from wet to dry conditions on the floodplain. Coelophysis bauri remains from the Dinosaur Hill locality are preserved in a filled channel scour. The paleosols at this locality contain carbonate nodules intimately associated with Fe and Mn oxides, indicative of alternating alkaline/acidic conditions around roots in response to a semi-arid climate with strong seasonal precipitation. At the Dinosaur Hollow locality, Chindesaurus bryansmalli is preserved in a setting similar to those encountered at Dinosaur Hill. The paleosols exhibit vertic features, such as pseudoanticlines, and are indicative of water-deficit periods during the year. The most complete theropod remains at PEFO are predominantly preserved in distinctive blue-colored paleosol horizons showing depletion in iron and aluminum, and exhibiting features such as localized Fe concentrations and mottling. These are interpreted as A-horizons of redoximorphic paleosols developed in wet areas of the floodplain where the degree of water saturation fluctuated. Preservational conditions of PEFO theropod localities indicate they are time-averaged attritional mortality assemblages representative of contemporaneous organisms. Comparison of these localities to the well-known Ghost Ranch, New Mexico, Coelophysis quarry reinforces the idea that the quarry represents unique preservational conditions.
10.2307/3514529|Shelfal reef communities underwent a dramatic change in community composition during the Early Cretaceous when rudists became the dominant reef-builder. However, for approximately 30 million years, from the Hauterivian to Albian, rudists coexisted with corals in shelf-margin reef systems, with each occupying separate habitats. Corals, algae, and stromatoporoids built the reef frame below normal wave base. Caprotinids, caprinids, and radiolitids composed the community in the highenergy wave zone. This habitat difference is reflected also in the facies succession from wackestone and framestone to grainstone, packstone, and rudstone. In shallow inner-shelf settings, rudistdominated reefs developed during the Aptian. During the Late Jurassic, shelf-margin reef communities became well developed and widespread. The framework community was dominated by corals and algae below normal wave base. Within the zone of waves, carbonate sand banks accumulated without large reefal organisms. In deeper shelf and slope environments, bioherms and biostromes were built by various communities of sponge-algal, stromatolite-Tubiphytes, and coral assemblages. These communities disappeared during the Early Cretaceous without replacement. In contrast, within the shelf-margin environments, rudist reef communities became prevalent during the Cretaceous. The demise of the coral communities in Early Cretaceous reefs was the result of complex environmental changes and productivity cycles related to sea-level rise.
27670617|In order to test the assertion that the carbon-isotopic composition of the ancient atmosphere (13CO2) can be reconstructed from the carbon-isotopic composition of fossil terrestrial plant tissues across a variety of environments, the 13C value of land-plant tissues isolated from modern fluvial sediments was compared to that of today's atmosphere. Plant stem and leaf fragments were isolated from organic carbon-rich sediments of the Black River in Jamaica, which drains a basin containing only C3 ecosystems. Sediment was sampled at 12 sites along a dissolved salt-content gradient, from the coastal plain to near its mouth, which allowed evaluation of the effect of salt influence on the organic carbon-isotope signature. Many properties of the sediment varied systematically with salt content (e.g., mass-percent carbonate, abundance of palynomorphs, 13C and 18O values of carbonate), confirming a significant and increasing marine influence closer to the mouth of the river. The 13C value of total organic carbon systematically decreased by 2 with increased NaCl concentration, indicating the presence of a mixing line between marine and terrestrial organic inputs. In contrast, for leaf and stem isolates, there was no significant dependence of 13C value on NaCl concentration, suggesting that the isotopic signature of the integrated terrestrial contribution is independent of the salt content of the depositional environment. The mean values of all isolates retrieved from the sediments predicted a 13CO2 value of 9.7 (1.0) for leaf material and 8.2 (1.7) for stems. Both of these values are within 1 of recent regional-scale measurements of atmospheric 13CO2 value.
10.2307/3514821| Shells of the bivalves Calyptogena magnifica and Bathymodiolus thermophilus that live by the hydrothermal vents of the East Pacific Rise, record the variations in vent activity. Their Sr and Mg contents reflect those of surrounding waters. Their carbon isotopic composition progressively decreases throughout the clam growth (about 1%.); it is significantly higher (3.5%.) than that of shallow water species (2%.); there is a dependence between the mean carbon isotopic composition of shells and of soft parts. These peculiarities may be related to the presence of symbiotic bacteria known to highly fractionate carbon isotopes. The last characteristic is also found for shells of molluscs sampled near several oceanic cold seeps (Florida, Louisiana, Oregon, Japan). Elemental molar ratios and carbon isotopic composition should be useful tools for the characterization of fossil bivalves from cold seeps. 
10.2307/3514859|The study of fossil fruits and seeds (Paleocarpology) developed in Europe and has seen increased international application in recent years. Dispersed fruits and seeds accumulate in both active and quiet sedimentary environments. Collection involves developing a search image for beds of finely to coarsely divided plant material, collecting appropriate samples, and separating the plant material and matrix in the field or in the laboratory. These fossils are most commonly three-dimensional compactions of original organic material, but may also be permineralized. The greatest physical difficulty is encountered in disaggregating the matrix; indurated sands and muds may be broken up by a variety of mild to drastic chemical means. Lithified samples may be impossible to disaggregate without hydrofluoric acid. Individual fossils may be studied morphologically or anatomically as required. There is no developed literature to provide the beginner with keys to the recognition of major groups and the identification of taxa. A limited supply of illustrated guides to seed morphology and anatomy of modern taxa exists, largely concerning the temperate Northern Hemisphere flora. Much of identification must be through comparison with previously-published material, backed up by examination of herbarium specimens. Fruits and seeds often sample an aspect of the flora and vegetation not represented by other organs (leaves, wood), and thus expand our knowledge of communities and plants of the past. They also offer insight into dispersal biology and community ecology. Recognition of the value of these fossils and of the mode of their occurrence by the paleontological community can only yield more data and enhance integration between paleontological specialties, resulting in better knowledge of the whole organism.
10.2307/3514888|Stable oxygen and carbon isotope profiles from fossil scallop shells provide detailed paleoenvironmental information for the Pliocene and early Pleistocene of the Middle Atlantic Coastal Plain. Scallop specimens were collected from strata which represent at least five major marine transgressions. Minimum and maximum paleo-temperatures were calculated from the <sup>18</sup>O ranges recorded in each shell profile, after adjusting for changes in seawater <sup>18</sup>O related to changes in global ice volume. Paleotemperature ranges from each stratigraphic unit were compared with modern conditions on the shelves of the Middle and South Atlantic Bight, and with paleo-temperatures estimated by Hazel (1971b, 1988) from the ostracode faunas. The mollusk-isotope records indicate that the marine climate of the Atlantic Shelf was mild temperate during the deposition of the Sunken Meadow Member of the Yorktown Formation in the early Pliocene. The climate became warm temperate during the middle and late Pliocene transgressions which deposited the Rushmere, Morgarts Beach and Moore House Members of the Yorktown Formation and the Chowan River Formation. During the deposition of the James City Formation in the early Pleistocene, temperatures returned to a mild temperate climate similar to that of the modern Virginia Bight shelf. The character of the isotope profiles indicates that hydrographic conditions were generally stable and similar to those of the modern Middle Atlantic Bight. The <sup>13</sup>C profiles of most of the shells show trends suggestive of spring phytoplankton blooms and summer water-column stratification. Anomalies in several profiles are interpreted as reduced salinity events, probably related to river discharge, which most commonly occur in the spring. There is no convincing evidence in the shell profiles for upwelling.
27670450|We use isotopic analyses of authigenic siderite and calcite cements within Rosselia socialis burrows from shoreface deposits in the Upper Cretaceous Horseshoe Canyon Formation of Alberta, Canada, to reveal the early cementation history of the burrow and geochemical conditions of the initial sedimentary environment. Within the Horseshoe Canyon Formation, two forms of the Rosselia burrows are present: bulbous in situ burrows, and transported, spindlelike burrows, which display similar internal shaft diameters but smaller overall size compared to in situ forms. Transverse, incremental sampling of calcite and siderite cements in the Rosselia burrows reveals symmetrical isotopic deviation in 13C and 18O around the burrow core, representing accretionary records of evolving pore-water conditions. The number of isotopic deviations recorded in bulbous specimens is equal to those observed in spindle-shaped burrows, suggesting that in situ and transported burrows underwent similar periods of cementation. Cementation, however, was limited during each accretionary event in the spindle-shaped burrows, making them more susceptible to transport by storm waves because of their small size. Early cementation of Rosselia, thus, took place very close to the sediment-water interface at depths where storm waves could rework sediments (i.e., less than 1 m sediment depth). The enriched 13C values for calcite and siderite (3.06-9.45 PDB [Peedee belemnite]) suggest that cement precipitation followed bacterially mediated decomposition of the organic matter concentrated within Rosselia in the zone of methanogenesis. Oxygen isotope compositions are enriched also, ranging in siderite from 17.5 to 29.4 SMOW (standard mean ocean water) and in calcite from 16.8 to 23.0 SMOW, and are more akin to the composition of subsurface groundwater than marine waters. Freshwater discharging through shoreface sediments explains the 18O isotopic signature of calcite and accounts for the early diagenetic precipitation of siderite in shallow marine sediments. In addition, the coexistence of authigenic calcite and siderite cements was most likely controlled by variation in the mixing ratio of meteoric and marine fluids related to variable discharge rates for the fresh-water aquifer.
40865489|The late-middle Eocene Gosport Sand of the United States Gulf Coastal Plain preserves a spectacularly dense accumulation of fossil mollusks in which shells appear unusually large in comparison to congeners in adjacent units. We use size-frequency distributions of common taxa drawn from bulk samples to quantify size differences between the Gosport Sand and the underlying Lisbon and overlying Moodys Branch Formations. In all but one of the twelve lineages examined, Gosport Sand individuals are larger than those in adjacent units. As taphonomic processes such as sorting or winnowing cannot account for observed differences, the larger body sizes in the Gosport Sand must have resulted from differences in life history. We used sclerochronology and stable isotope geochemistry to assess growth trajectories for twelve lineages common to the three formations. Isotope analyses of microsamples collected along the ontogenetic trajectory reveal seasonal temperature changes, providing a chronometer for growth. Size-age data indicate that, while life spans vary somewhat among the three units, Gosport Sand taxa almost universally grew faster than those in the two adjacent formations. While growth rate can be enhanced by several factors, we hypothesize that rates of primary production were higher during deposition of the Gosport Sand. Ba/Ca ratios along the growth trajectories of shell carbonate exhibit spikes in Gosport Sand mollusks that are indistinguishable from those observed in modern shells that accrete in high productivity settings.
10.2307/3515516|The taphonomy of a newly discovered petrified forest in the Two Medicine Formation, south of Choteau, Montana, provides new constraints on the pre-thrusting position of the Boulder batholith and Elkhorn Mountains Volcanics. The petrified forest consists of more than 200 charcoalified, subaligned trees encased in an ash flow tuff and an immediately overlying bentonite. The ash flow tuff has been dated at 80.002  0.114Ma (<sup>39</sup>Ar/<sup>40</sup>Ar on plagioclase). The ash flow and bentonite are interpreted to record a single catastrophic eruptive event that toppled and entombed the forest. The mean azimuth of the prostrate trunks, which are interpreted as the direction of travel of the ash flow, is 037<sup></sup> (2 = 35<sup></sup>). Based upon age, mineralogy, and the absence of other contemporaneous volcanic centers, it is concluded that the Late Cretaceous Elkhorn Mountains Volcanics were the most likely source of the tuff and bentonite that encase the trees. The mean azimuth of the tree trunks is consistent with palinspastic restorations of the northern Rocky Mountain fold-thrust belt that place the Elkhorn Mountains Volcanics and their plutonic equivalent, the Boulder batholith, ~65-110 km northwest of their present position during Campanian time. This restored position is ~150-200$ km from the petrified forest, making the ash flow one of the farthest-traveled documented flows with enough power to topple mature trees.
10.2307/3514973|Below the photic zone within live microbial mats from tidal flats, the cyanobacteria are dead and bacteria are the dominant living biota. Field data indicate that precipitation of calcium carbonate occurs predominantly within the mats in the aphotic zone. In order to determine whether bacteria could be responsible for inducing the precipitation of calcium carbonate within the microbial mats, live microbial mats and bacteria were collected from modern tidal flats. Over 50 experiments were set up in the laboratory in which live, naturally dead, and sterilized (autoclaved) dead filamentous cyanobacteria were inoculated with bacterial cultures. The experiments were conducted within liquid and gelatinous (firm) media under normal laboratory lighting conditions as well as in the dark. Sterilized, non-inoculated microbial mats were used as controls. The experimental data demonstrated that precipitation of calcium carbonate only occurred on cyanobacterial filaments in the presence of live bacteria. Furthermore, dead cyanobacteria were coated with calcium carbonate much more quickly and to a greater extent than live cyanobacteria. In addition, some of the naturally occurring carbonate precipitates within modern microbial mats are essentially identical to those produced in the laboratory by bacterial cultures without cyanobacteria as well as by bacterial cultures in association with cyanobacteria. Therefore, we conclude that bacteria can play a significant role in producing stromatolites by inducing the precipitation of calcium carbonate on dead cyanobacterial filaments in the aphotic zone within modern microbial mats. The micritic, clotted fabric, exhibited by many ancient stromatolites as well as the mesoclotted fabric of thrombolites are inferred to be the result of bacterially induced precipitation of calcium carbonate.
10.2307/3514547|Binary similarity coefficients are applied widely to many types of paleontological data. Unfortunately, many of these paleontological data sets are "sparse" (i.e., contain substantially more than 50% "zeros," or absences, in the data matrix). We have run a series of Monte Carlo simulations with sparse data (10% "1" s, or p = 0.10) on a series of selected coefficients that have been tested previously using 50% "1"s, or p = 0.50 (Archer and Maples, in press). In decreasing order of ability to approximate the mean of the sparse-data binomial (0.10) and general utility, we rank the coefficients tested as Dice, Braun-Blanquet, Simpson, Jaccard, Baroni-Urbani and Buser, Simple Matching, and Hamann. This ranking is generally the opposite of that for Monte Carlo simulations using 50% "1"s or p = 0.50 (Archer and Maples, in press). Because the mean has such a low value, Dice, Braun-Blanquet, Simpson, Jaccard, and Baroni-Urbani and Buser all truncate the lower zones of significance. Therefore, statistically meaningful comparisons of the differences between any two samples cannot be made using these coefficients. This does not render these particular coefficients as useless, as long as it is realized that significantly similar linkages will occur at what would normally be interpreted as abnormally low values, especially in comparison with data in which a greater percentage of "1"s is present. In contrast, the Simple Matching and Hamann coefficients greatly overestimate the mean because the mutual absence of a character or taxon is considered to be a trait in common between any two samples. Because of the shifted mean, lower zones of significance are present; however, all linkages are high-even those that are significantly dissimilar. The mutual absence of one or more characters between any two samples is usually meaningless for most paleontological problems; coefficients should therefore be selected with this in mind.
10.2307/3515415|Census assemblages from hard-bottom coastal environments have scarcely been reported in the fossil record. Late Pliocene-Pleistocene sediments from the marginal Mediterranean Almera-Njar Basin (SE Spain) contain fossils with exceptional preservation following catastrophic burial (obrution deposits). The assemblage, dominated by barnacles, bryozoans, coralline algae, mussels and other mollusks, colonized debris-flow boulders of a fan delta in a protected, shallow subtidal environment, probably a bay. The minimum time for paleocommunity development is estimated at 17 years based upon coralline growth-rates. Reactivation of fluvial processes in the area caused anastrophic burial and instantaneous death; the biota remained in situ and permanently isolated from post-burial reworking. Taphonomic bias due to organismic escape from burial and sediment mixing by bioturbation is negligible. Dissolution of skeletal aragonite and loss of non-skeletonized organisms seem to be the main post-burial biases altering the original community. The biotic composition of hard-bottom coastal communities has remained almost unchanged since the Late Oligocene, at least at high taxonomic level of skeletonized organisms, indicating coordinated stasis. This represents an ecological-evolutionary unit for the Neogene and Quaternary.
10.2307/3514689|Shell and bone beds in the Pliocene Purisima Formation of central California accumulated through dominantly physical processes of concentration in shallow-marine facies and by ecological mechanisms in deep-shelf lithofacies. This trend reflects onshore-offshore variations in rate of sedimentation, frequency of current reworking, and preservation of bioturbation. The shift from physical to ecological processes tracks a change from high frequency of reworking by currents in shallow water to lower rates of physical reworking below storm-wave base. Storm and current-generated shell beds decrease in abundance offshore due to decreased current strength and frequency and to increased bioturbation. Shell deposits in deep shelf settings result from sediment starvation and such ecological processes as aggregation of shelled molluscs, encrustation of pre-existing shell lags, and repeated pulses of larval settlement. Nearshore shell beds preserve considerable information on current direction, types of bottom flows, duration of exposure of shells on the bottom, and flow regime, but little data on community trophic structure or species diversity. Offshore shell deposits, in contrast, preserve community associations and encruster-host relationships (which may be destroyed in the high-energy, nearshore region) as well as information regarding rate of sedimentation and early diagenetic conditions.
41317439|Nineteen ichnotaxa occur in a 94-m-thick section of Gelasian-Calabrian siliciclastic deposits along the Stirone River. The most common trace fossils are grouped in 17 clusters based on a K-Means Cluster Analysis. This grouping is related to distal, archetypal and proximal Cruziana ichnofacies. Successions of ichnotaxa and clusters as represented in Detrended Correspondence Analyses determine environmental trends that helped establish a sequence stratigraphic scheme, which is not always obvious in the sedimentary record. The depositional sequences are separated by three sequence boundaries (A-C), which are well expressed in the ichnological record. Primary fabrics are less frequent in the archetypal and proximal Cruziana ichnofacies than in their idealized models. This is probably due to less intense storms in the small and protected paleo-Adriatic Sea and to intense bioturbation. Small-scale intervals with low ichnodiversity and ichnofabrics commonly dominated by one trace fossil are present. This suggests stressed conditions and opportunistic colonization related to small, but probably frequent, seafloor disturbances. The record of these disturbances possibly caused by storm and bottom currents, deposition, or possibly erosion has been obliterated by subsequent bioturbation. The disappearance of Schaubcylindrkhnus, the smaller size of Scolicia and Ophiomorpha, and a slight decrease in trace fossil diversity in the Calabrian part of the section is interpreted to record climate cooling. This is also supported by the general decrease in ichnodiversity in Pleistocene versus Pliocene shallow-marine to slope siliciclastic facies.
3515735| Tests of benthic foraminifera were analyzed quantitatively in 43 surface sediment samples collected along E-W traverses across the modern isolated carbonate platforms of Glovers Reef (N=14), Lighthouse Reef (N=14), and Turneffe Islands (N=15), offshore Belize, Central America. Water depths of sample stations range from 0 m (beach) to 40 m (fore reef). Each sample was sieved in the size classes 2-1, 1-0.5, 0.5-0.25, and 0.25-0.125 mm (=1-0, 0-1, 1-2, and 2-3, respectively) and 300 foraminiferal identifications were attempted for each sieve fraction (i.e., 1,200 individuals per sample, totaling 46,003 specimens). Cluster analyses of samples characterized platform environments and distinguished four benthic foraminifera associations. Fore reef samples were characterized by abundant Amphistegina gibbosa and the occurrence of Asterigerina carinata, both rotaliids. In high-energy, marginalreef areas the encrusting rotaliid Homotrema rubrum predominated. Platform-interior environments were marked by a variety of common taxa, the most common of which include Miliolina such as Archaias angulatus, Quinqueloculina sp., and Triloculina sp., as well as the rotaliid Cribroelphidium num, the latter indicating low-energy or deep-lagoonal regimes. Diversity, expressed as numbers of identified taxa, appears to be a function of relative degree of circulation. The highest number (147) of taxa was found in the shallow, highenergy platform of Lighthouse Reef, followed by Glovers Reef (78), both of which are open to the Caribbean Sea. The lowest number of taxa (66) occurred in Turneffe Islands where large parts of the platform are characterized by the restricted circulation imposed by dense mangrove growth behind platform margins. The occurrence of tests of common foraminiferal species outside their original habitats, coupled with trends towards smaller grain-sizes and better sorting of tests away from original habitats along parts of the sample traverses, indicates sediment transport across platform margins. In the great majority of samples, however, sediment redeposition did not significantly alter characteristic taxonomic compositions. This result has important implications for the use of benthic foraminifera as facies indicators in fossil carbonate platforms. 
41317438|The Early-Late Cretaceous transition marked the beginning of the final disintegration of the Adriatic Carbonate Platform, which eventually resulted in the formation of the Dinarides mountain belt in the Paleogene, Neogene, and Quaternary. In southern Istria (Croatia) a continuous succession crops out that shows deepening from shallow subtidal to carbonate ramp in the latest Albian followed by gradual shallowing in the early Cenomanian, including well-preserved Ophiomorpha and Thalassinoides burrow systems in sections from Cintinera Cove and Vinkuran quarry. Burrow systems that overlie hummocky cross-stratified deposits are good indicators of specific environmental conditions during deposition. During transgression, favorable conditions for suspension-and depositfeeding crustaceans were established which resulted in complex networks of Ophiomorpha and Thalassinoides. The increase in bioturbation up-section is recorded by a gradual increase in the bioturbation index as well as the size of burrow systems during transgressive events; a completely bioturbated interval in Vinkuran quarry indicates the maximum flooding surface. Formation of burrow systems was interrupted by subsequent clinoform progradation interpreted as a highstand shedding of shallow-marine bioclasts caused by high carbonate production and intense bioerosion of rudist and chondrodont shells, causing the relatively rapid infilling of the basin and re-establishment of the shallow-marine peritidal deposition in the entire northwestern part of the Adriatic Carbonate Platform.
10.2307/3515447|The combined study of continental trace fossils and associated sedimentary facies provides valuable evidence of colonization trends and events throughout the Phanerozoic. Colonization of continental environments was linked to the exploitation of empty or under-utilized ecospace. Although the nonmarine trace fossil record probably begins during the Late Ordovician, significant invasion of nonmarine biotopes began close to the Silurian-Devonian transition with the establishment of a mobile arthropod epifauna (Diplichnites ichnoguild) in coastal marine to alluvial plain settings. Additionally, the presence of vertical burrows in Devonian high-energy fluvial deposits reflects the establishment of a stationary, deep suspension-feeding infauna of the Skolithos ichnoguild. The earliest evidence of plant-arthropod interaction occurred close to the Silurian-Devonian boundary, but widespread and varied feeding patterns are known from the Carboniferous. During the Carboniferous, permanent subaqueous lacustrine settings were colonized by a diverse, mobile detritus-feeding epifauna of the Mermia ichnoguild, which reflects a significant paleoenvironmental expansion of trace fossils. Paleozoic ichnologic evidence supports direct routes to the land from marginal marine environments, and migration to lakes from land settings. All nonmarine sedimentary environments were colonized by the Carboniferous, and subsequent patterns indicate an increase in ecospace utilization within already colonized depositional settings. During the Permian, backfilled traces of the Scoyenia ichnoguild record the establishment of a mobile, intermediate-depth, deposit-feeding infauna in alluvial and transitional alluvial-lacustrine sediments. Diversification of land plants and the establishment of ecologically diverse plant communities through time provided new niches to be exploited by arthropods. Nevertheless, most of the evolutionary feeding innovations took place relatively early, during the Late Paleozoic or early Mesozoic. A stationary deep infauna, the Camborygma ichnoguild, was developed in Triassic transitional alluvial-lacustrine deposits. Terrestrial environments hosted the rise of complex social behavioral patterns, as suggested by the probable presence of hymenopteran and isopteran nests in Triassic paleosols. An increase in diversity of trace fossils is detected in Triassic-Jurassic eolian deposits, where the ichnofauna displays more varied behavioral patterns than their Paleozoic counterparts. Also, a mobile, intermediate-depth, deposit-feeding infauna, the Vagorichnus ichnoguild, was established in deep lake environments during the Jurassic. In contrast to Paleozoic permanent subaqueous assemblages typified by surface trails, Jurassic ichnocoenoses are dominated by infaunal burrows. High density of infaunal deposit-feeding traces of the Planolites ichnoguild caused major disruption of lacustrine sedimentary fabrics during the Cretaceous. Most insect mouthpart classes, functional feeding groups, and dietary guilds were established by the end of the Cretaceous. Diversification of modern insects is recorded by the abundance and complexity of structures produced by wasps, bees, dung-beetles, and termites in Cretaceous-Tertiary paleosols. The increase in bioturbation migrated from fluvial and lake-margin settings to permanent subaqueous lacustrine environments through time.
10.2307/3515148|Benthic foraminifera recovered from sediments in the waters surrounding San Juan Island, Washington, were examined to assess taphonomic damage and to compare magnitude of the taphonomic agents of abrasion, solution and microboring to studies done in tropical settings. Abrasion experiments of 24, 72, 120 and 240 hour duration were run on fresh Elphidiella hannai and Islandiella limbata, two hyaline benthic foraminifera common in the Puget Sound region. Results show that styles of taphonomic damage observed in field sediment samples, including impact pitting, scratching, caving, and exfoliation, were produced on experimentally manipulated groups in as few as 24 hours. Elphidiella appears slightly more resistant to abrasive reduction compared to Islandiella, which produced a wide range of abrasive features within 3 days. A control group of Elphidiella and Islandiella was placed in a mesh bag for 240 hours to assess taphonomic alteration by solution, boring and encrustation, removed from the effects of abrasion. These specimens experienced no significant solution or boring, but within 3 days were covered with algal filaments and diatoms. Taphonomic damage observed in field specimens can be divided into destructive and constructive agents. Destructive features include breakage, pitting, boring, scratching, and exfoliation. Constructive features include pyritization and encrustation by diatoms and other algae. Although several naturally-occurring abrasion features were produced in the experimental abrasion runs, the magnitude of taphonomic damage seen in field specimens was not achieved experimentally. Features of extreme taphonomic damage include complete removal of the outer chamber wall, as well as removal of all but the umbilical regions of planispiral forms. Solution and predation are largely responsible for such severely damaged tests.
10.2307/3515554|Disaster taxa are long-ranging opportunistic generalists that briefly proliferate in the aftermath of mass extinctions, invading vacant ecospace until forced to return to more marginal settings through competition with specialist taxa returning from refugia. Lowermost Triassic (Griesbachian) strata worldwide have been noted for a brief 'proliferation of Lingula', a classic 'living fossil', which through its long fossil record typically has occurred in shoreface and dysoxic settings. The abundance of Lingula relative to other taxa in the Griesbachian Dinwoody Formation of southwestern Montana and western Wyoming (USA) has been quantified and the results placed into a paleoenvironmental context. Lingula dominates the fossil assemblage in the Dinwoody Formation across several facies deposited on an oxygenated, storm-dominated, mixed carbonate Isiliciclastic shelf. A study of preservational state and quality further indicates that these results are not due to taphonomic bias. Lingula, therefore, behaved as a disaster taxon during the biotic recovery from the end-Permian mass extinction, much like relatively common Early Triassic normal marine stromatolites, that have been interpreted as disaster forms. Thus, while the fundamental rules of geology and biology have not changed, during biotic recoveries from mass extinctions organisms may behave and interact with their environments very differently than do their modern or fossil equivalents in "normal" times.
10.2307/3515410|Lateral and vertical sedimentological, ichnological, and geochemical characteristics of a tracksite at Lavini di Marco (Southern Alps, Northern Italy) allowed for the reconstruction of a semi-arid, coastal, life-sustaining environment for sauropods and theropods that lived in the western margin of tropical Pangaea at the Triassic-Jurassic transition. Isotopic analyses reveal that there was little influence of meteoric water in the diagenetic transformation of trampled sediments. Consequently, freshwater lenses were probably ephemeral, but could still sustain some vegetation and support animal life. The environment was dominated by the presence of marine waters in sediment pores. Intense evaporation caused partial dolomitization in the morphologically "low lying" parts of the site by modified marine waters. Dolomite precipitation favored the preservation, via early cementation, of dinosaur footprints by carbonates and, possibly, other soluble minerals. Early cementation in semi-arid and arid settings could play a major role in the fossilization of dinosaur footprints on carbonate tidal flats. Dinosaur footprints provide unequivocal proof of subaerial exposure of the platform, which has important consequences for both cyclo- and sequence stratigraphic studies. Commonly, bed surfaces in Alpine outcrops are scarce and paleontologic studies have had to rely upon vertical outcrop faces. In this case, the recognition of dinoturbation structures becomes very important. At Lavini we had the opportunity to study the same footprints both on the bedding surface and in bed cross-section. Here we provide detailed descriptions of dinoturbation structures that should aid in the recognition of subaerial exposure surfaces in Mesozoic tidal flats. The preserved footprints at Lavini indicate that fossilization of ichnofaunas is possible in a variety of subenvironments within a tidal flat, in a general inter-supratidal setting characterized by alternating periods of seawater influx and dryness.
27670445|In this article the potential paleoecologic boundary conditions are discussed favoring prasinophyte prosperity commonly associated with sediments rich in organic carbon, as exemplified by palynologic case studies from the Northwest European Basin (Lower Jurassic Posidonia shale, Cretaceous Cenomanian-Turonian Boundary Event). Based on the literature of nutrient requirements of modern green algae and the evolution of photic-zone water chemistry throughout earth history, it is suggested that the enhanced availability of reduced nitrogen chemospecies, especially ammonium, in photic-zone waters is the ultimate cause for stimulating prasinophyte productivity. It is also suggested that the erosional suspension of suboxic-to-anoxic pore waters from shelf sediments or the vertical expansion of the redox zones from within sediments or the oceanic oxygen minimum zone are the main mechanisms for introducing reduced nitrogen chemospecies into these waters. Thus, changes in intensity and duration of suboxic-to-anoxic water conditions within the photic zone may be reflected by the corresponding presence and change respectively of significant proportions of prasinophyte phycomata within associated sediments. In addition, with respect to general water mass character, several arguments for a principal cooler water affinity of prasinophytes are suggested: (1) the accumulation of fossilalmost rock-buildingprasinophyte deposits in higher paleolatitudes or in close temporal proximity to major global glaciation episodes; (2) the enhanced biochemical stability of ammonium within cooler waters; and (3) the principal modern main distribution of prasinophytes in cool-temperate waters and aquatic ice-covered regions.
40606482|Many carbonate sections are characterized by monotonous successions that mask subtle changes in paleoenvironmental parameters. Foraminiferal populations, however, are more sensitive to environmental parameters and commonly reflect these subtle changes. The accuracy of paleoenvironmental interpretations based on foraminiferal assemblages depends on the precise delineation and interpretation of abundance biozones (ABs). Samples rich in foraminifera were taken from four outcrops (OC1-OC4, oldest to youngest) of the Mayo limestone bioherm (Tamaa Formation) that comprised 6-8 limestone-marl alternations each. Bottom-up SHE Analysis for Biozone Identification (SHBI) indicated the samples to be from seven ABs (AB1-AB7). The percentage of the foraminiferal assemblage as planktonic specimens (% P) ranged from 5%-25% and was generally lower in AB1, AB3, AB5, and AB7 than in intervening biozones. This indicates deposition at shallow-to mid-neritic paleodepths (~ 20-55 m) during a series of transgressions and regressions. Per sample (point) diversities, measured using the information function H, ranged from 1.67 to 2.86. Total within-AB diversities ( diversities), were calculated from the final value of H and expressed as the effective number of species S <sub>E</sub> , [=e <sup>H</sup> ]; these ranged from 7.8 to 18.4. Changes in diversity across AB boundaries ( diversities) were calculated using the percentage change in S <sub>E</sub> , and ranged from -44% to 137%. Not all  diversities were significant, indicating that paleodepth was not the only control on  diversity. Fluctuations in the percentage abundances of Elphidium spp., Pseudononion atlanticum, and Amphistegina sp. show that changes in the organic matter flux also exerted some control, being lowest in the Amphistegina-rkh AB3.
10.2307/3515337|Neogene paleosols of the Great Plains and central Oregon provide abundant evidence of grasslands of the past. The characteristic surface horizon (mollic epipedon) of grassland soils (Mollisols) can be recognized in paleosols from granular ped structure, abundant fine root traces, dark color, and common carbonate or other easily weatherable minerals. The fossil record of such soils indicates a three-stage evolution of grasslands. Eocene to Oligocene rangelands are represented by paleosols with near-mollic soil structure and fine root traces similar to soils of modern desert grasslands with scattered bunch grasses and shrubs. Paleosols with mollic epipedon and shallow (less than 40 cm down into the profile) calcic horizons are evidence for the appearance of sod-forming short grasslands during the early to middle Miocene. Mollic paleosols with deeper (some 1 m or more) calcic horizons represent tall grasslands and have not been found older than late Miocene. Early stages in the evolution of grassland soils correspond to climatic coolings near the end of the Eocene and middle Miocene. The best understood climatic cooling and drying during the late Miocene (Messinian or 5-7 Ma) is synchronous with the expansion of tall C<sub>4</sub> grasslands.
3515697|The Main Glauconite Bed (MGB), near the top of the Eocene Stone City Member (Crochet Formation), Texas, has been considered to contain a typical local paleocommunity (parautochthonous assemblage formed within a stable habitat). Microstratigraphic analysis, however, reveals a complex sedimentologic and taphonomic history for the MGB, a unit that is 1.7-1.9 m thick and consists of three intercalated small-scale facies interpreted to represent differing modes of deposition. The primary autochthonous inner-shelf sediments are dark glauconitic clay-silts with a matrix-supported polytaxic fossil assemblage. Recurrent storms produced thin (few mm to cm) layers of mostly simple, bioclastsupported, polytaxic shell concentrations. These distal tempestites occur mainly as small-scale lenses and as a few beds and pods, associated with glauconite-pellets, terrigenous sands, and scarce sedimentary structures. Subsequent burrowing destroyed most skeletal concentrations and formed patches of fossils, glauconite-pellet sand, and terrigenous, very fine sand. The assemblages in the three facies are dominated by corbulids, naticids, turrids, noetiids, and the solitary coral Turbinolia sp., and are indistinguishable based on their taxonomic composition and most of the taphonomic features (disarticulation, fragmentation, incrustation, corrasion, shell repair, and predatory drill holes). Only drilled shells are significantly more abundant in the bioturbated patches than in the two other facies. The only strong evidence for the presence of allochthonous faunal elements is the lack of right valves of anomiid bivalves. The scarcity of significant differences between facies indicates the presence of one basic paleocommunity that was modified by small-scale and short-term depositional events and bioturbation, but which can still be recognized in spite of having been preserved by three different suites of depositional processes. Microstratigraphic analysis of bioclastic deposits can recognize small-scale sedimentologic and biostratinomic processes that otherwise frequently are overlooked in paleoecological studies. Such processes have only minor influence on taxonomic composition and taphonomic features, which are therefore robust characteristics of a fossil assemblage.
40606419|Located at the interface between land and sea, marl prairies are sensitive to changes in water balance and useful recorders of climate and sea-level changes. Palustrine carbonate in marl prairies precipitates in temporary, barely flooded grasslands within microbial mats. Despite the special mode of carbonate production, descriptions of the sedimentary facies are exceptional and cursory because marl prairies are so far reported only from the recent of the Everglades (Florida, USA), where they produce an unspectacular calcite mud. We present a Pleistocene Everglades-type marl prairie from coastal Tanzania as the first fossil example. The unique preservation and high productivity (two times higher than in the Everglades) of the periphyton community in this marl prairie is due to increased calcification of coccoid and filamentous cyanobacteria. The excellent preservation allows us to characterize a marl prairie facies in great detail for the first time. Facies analyses of the sediments reveal a transition from tidal to terrestrial settings that started at ca. 44 C ka in response to eustatic sea-level fall and coastal tectonic uplift. The resultant drop of the groundwater table triggered the development of the marl prairie. The decline of the marl prairie was initiated at ca. 33 C ka due to the onset of the Last Glacial Aridity Maximum in equatorial East Africa.
10.2307/3515562|The aim of this study was to determine whether biotic associations of Pennsylvanian-Permian brachiopods and bivalves from the northern Midcontinent differ in their degree of recurrence through time. The study interval includes 2.5 Myr that can be divided into 5 full and 2 partial composite depositional sequences separated by subaerial unconformities. These stratigraphic packages represent replicate natural experiments in establishing the benthic marine ecosystem of the basin. Based on cluster and ordination analyses, two discrete biofacies can be recognized-one dominated by brachiopods and the other by bivalves. Within each of these, environmental gradients can be recognized. The brachiopod gradient is interpreted to reflect the degree of water-column oxygenation, whereas the bivalve gradient is interpreted to reflect the transition from restricted to open-marine conditions. Comparison of measured recurrence with randomized data indicates that the ecological segregation of the two biofacies is maintained to a significant degree through the succession of depositional sequences in the study interval. In contrast, the gradients within each bio-facies, although recognizable, are not maintained rigidly from sequence to sequence. There is also no significant difference in gradient recurrence between the two biofacies. These results imply that there is no need to call upon strong interspecific interactions to maintain the structure of these paleocommunities through time.
3515679|A new vertebrate track site in the Lower Permian Wellington Formation in north-central Oklahoma is described wherein tracks are found on a single dolomite bedding plane that can be traced along more than 1.6 km of disconnected outcrops. In excess of 1,400 tetrapod tracks, including 16 trackways, are documented. Because of extramorphological factors, it was not possible to identify ichnogenera with certainty, but five distinct morphotypes are described, and their possible affinities with known Permian ichnotaxa are given. All tracks appear to be undertracks of vertebrates walking on all fours, wading on their back legs, or swimming. It is proposed that one of these morphotypes was made by a web-footed trackmaker. Aspects of the ichnofauna and lithologic features suggest a lacustrine paleoenvironment for the track site, and could warrant further subdivision of the redbed ichnofacies.
10.2307/3514764|Cluster analyses of echinoid distribution data for Paleogene stages in the Coastal Plains of eastern North America suggest provincial distributions for some stages. In only one case (New Jersey versus the Gulf Coast in the Sabinian) is this interpretable as climatically controlled endemism. The Suwannee Strait in southwestern Georgia and northwestern Florida may have acted as a barrier to echinoid dispersal between central Florida and the rest of the Gulf Coast during the Eocene. However, preliminary results suggest that stratigraphic and/or ecological differences between the two regions better explain the observed distinction. Most of the apparent faunal differences suggested for other stages can best be attributed to facies differences or subtle age differences among the regions. We should expect stratigraphic mismatching of strata between "provinces" to be a particularly tricky problem in older rocks (especially the Paleozoic) for which temporal resolution is worse; paleobiogeographic studies of Paleozoic rocks should explicitly address this problem. The Gulf Coast region (south Georgia, south Alabama, the panhandle of Florida and westward to east Texas) was one province throughout the Paleogene. Through the Vicksburgian an east-west gradient in diversity existed within the region. By the Chickasawhayan this gradient, and the apparent facies differences controlling it, had disappeared. The Carolinas represent a distinct province at least throughout the Eocene, probably because of their depositional setting as deep-water carbonates. Central Florida was faunally distinct during the Eocene (no older exposures are known from Florida), but by the late Oligocene this distinction no longer existed.
41317455|More than two hundred subcircular to crescent-shaped depressions, often with radiating markings, were discovered on a 120 m bedding plane interpreted as base-of-slope carbonate deposits and belonging to the Lutetian-Bartonian Peschici Formation at San Lorenzo (Vieste, Gargano Promontory, Italy). The area was mapped using a high-resolution aerial camera (mounted on a kite) and a terrestrial laser scanner. The survey allowed detailed morphologic analysis and topographic mapping of the traces, in order to analyze the very regular distribution pattern. The ichnological study, combined with sedimentologie and stratigraphie analyses, identifies the depressions as fish feeding traces. Although the tracemaker cannot be definitely identified, the comparison with modern and fossil fish excavations suggests a higher affinity with bony fishes (e.g., sturgeons) than with rays. The trace fossils are here attributed to the ichnogenus Piscichnus and constitute the first discovery of this ichnotaxon in the middle Eocene of the Apulia Carbonate Platform and of Italy.
27670340|Analyses of predatory damage on subfossil hard parts can be used to document the trophic role played by species that were abundant prior to human impact even when pre-impact surveys are lacking or when predators have not left skeletal remains. Before upstream dams and water diversions, the bivalve Mulinia coloradoensis was the most common mollusk inhabiting the Colorado River Estuary. Today, only a small population has survived the environmental changes caused by reduction in the river's flow. When abundant, this species was a major source of food for predatory gastropods and crabs, as shown by the characteristic damage inflicted by these predators. Boreholes made by predatory gastropods were found in 23% of the 600 individuals sampled from shell accumulations that date from the era prior to upstream dams and diversions. Marginal shell damage characteristic of predatory portunid crabs was found in 27% of the individuals. Thirty-four percent of the individuals had damage from earlier attacks. Shells were tumbled to provide criteria to distinguish ante-mortem biological damage to the shell margin from post-mortem physical damage. Decline in the population of this prey species likely caused a decline in the populations of its predators and species higher in the food chain, prey-switching, or both effects. Restoration of river flow would increase populations of M. coloradoensis and species that depend on it for food, including commercially important crabs.
10.2307/3515473|Finely laminated diatomaceous sediments from the Miocene Monterey Formation, Lompoc, Santa Barbara County, California, record the mutualistic coupling of life processes and environmental evolution at subannual and subseasonal resolution. In this study we present a new classification of lamina and couplet styles based on couplet bimodality, lamina thickness, compositional domination, lamina spacing, and cyclicity. We also describe five distinct lamina types with emphasis on paleoenvironmental settings, paleoecological associations, and biologically mediated sedimentary/taphonomic processes. Detrital laminae, consisting of silt, clay, and robust diatoms, were deposited from continental runoff during rainy seasons. Thin biosiliceous laminae consist of either moderately preserved high-diversity diatom assemblages, or well-preserved monogeneric phytoplankton assemblages. Most thick, continuous diatomaceous laminae are composed of well-preserved monogeneric and monospecific diatom assemblages that likely experienced biologically induced aggregation and rapid sedimentation without grazing. Thick, discontinuous diatomaceous laminae consist of either Thalassiothrix longissima mats or Chaetoceros setae. Mat laminae reflect stratified water conditions and high biomass conditions developed via vertically migrating diatom mats. Setae laminae are problematic to interpret. Macerated biosilica laminae, consisting of closely packed and highly fragmented biosilica from a variety of taxa, reflect intense Zooplankton maceration and dissolution of diverse phytoplankton assemblages. Our results illustrate how different lamina types and associations can be used to proxy specific ecological and oceanographic conditions. This study provides a foundation for developing a high-resolution time series of paleoenvironmental variability recorded by biological event strata in hemipelagic sediments.
10.2307/3514577|Published data on the distribution of Recent benthic foraminifera in the northern Gulf of Mexico indicate that many species have wide-ranging depth distributions and occur throughout the area. In general, the potential ecologic information from such ubiquitous (or nearly so) species has been ignored because visual differences in shell morphology within species are not easily detectable. Because canonical variate analysis has the statistical power to detect such subtle differences, it is used in this study to analyze measured morphologic features of several ubiquitous species: Bolivina albatrossi, B. lowmani, B. subspinescens, and Cassidulina subglobosa. These species were obtained from previous collections from the western Gulf of Mexico in depths ranging from less than 100 meters (inner neritic) to more than 2000 meters (abyssal). The statistical analyses were able to discriminate between populations of these ubiquitous species from these different depths; that is, specimens collected from the neritic zone have statistically significant morphometric differences from all bathyal and abyssal samples, and specimens collected from upper, middle and lower bathyal zones have statistically significant morphometric differences from each other as well as from abyssal zone samples. This approach has the potential of expanding our capability to estimate paleobathymetry and enhancing the precision of such estimates.
10.2307/3514929|Late Middle to early Late Pleistocene shallow marine deposits west of Bahia Adair, to the northern Gulf of California, have been exposed by tectonic uplift along the coast. Represented sedimentary environments include shallow subtidal, tidal flat, tidal estuary, tidal channel and shoreface. The deposits contain a diverse molluscan fauna, often concentrated in shell beds. Based on taphonomic data, stratigraphic geometry and faunal composition, the shell beds are identified as beach berm accumulations, tidal channel lags, subtidal community beds, or unconformity beds. While the first three types of shell beds form on many continental margins, the unconformity beds reflect the active tectonic setting of the northern Gulf of California. These beds are bioclast-supported tabular or sheet-like accumulations 5-15 cm thick, persist for more than 1000 m along out-crop, and cap angular unconformities truncating gently folded strata. Reworking in the swash zone is indicated by heavily abraded and fragmented shells exhibiting abraded endolith borings. The beds are encased in heavily bioturbated shallow subtidal or lower intertidal deposits containing abundant Ophiomorpha and Thalassinoides burrows, many of which either penetrate the beds or are cut by the beds. Unconformity beds are erosional lags created by beveling of structural bulges caused by uplift and deformation along the Pleistocene coast. At least two episodes of uplift and deformation are recognized in the field area, possibly caused by transpressional forces associated with the Cerro Prieto Fault, a major dextral strike-slip fault joining the Gulf of California to the San Andreas Fault system. In these heavily bioturbated strata, the unconformity shell beds may be the only means of recognizing deformation caused by neotectonic activity.
10.2307/3515006|Calcareous concretions containing well-preserved aquatic and terrestrial arthropods are found within lacustrine sediments of the middle Miocene Barstow Formation of the Mojave Desert. The concretions occur in situ within three distinct zones (each <1 m thick) of microlaminated, non-bioturbated muds, interlaminated with thin, clay-rich carbonates. Several lithologies were recognized in the three concretion-bearing zones on the basis of color, grain size, lamination thickness and composition. Minerals identified in the laminae include: zeolites, clays, sulfates, borates, carbonates, and Fe-rich sulfides and oxides. Mineral composition varies between individual lamina. Carbon and oxygen isotopes measured within individual concretions and their surrounding sediments show an enrichment of 
3514671|At 14 sites along the west coast of the southern Caribbean island of Bonaire, Netherlands Antilles, 5045 living scleractinian corals in 1101 reef-growth-framework cavities over the depth range 12 m to 43 m were identified and counted. The sample comprises 28 hermatypic coral taxa, the ahermatype Tubastrea coccinea, and the hydrozoan Millepora alcicornis. Although there is no known fossil record of scleractinian reef corals in cavities, there is a record for the taxa living on the reef surface that also inhabit modern reef cavities. This permits speculation that the modern Caribbean cryptic scleractinian coral assemblage may have roots extending into the Tertiary, and at the family level, possibly into the Mesozoic. The common presence of 8 genera, amounting to 44% of the southern Caribbean cryptic coral assemblage, in reef cavities in both the southern Caribbean and the southwestern Pacific, supports the antiquity of the cryptic coral biota, by suggesting that at least those genera may have already been in cavities before the rise of the Isthmus of Panama.
10.2307/3514511|The first known occurrence in the United States of a Dachstein-type reef sequence is here reported from the Wallowa Mountains of northeastern Oregon. It is a massive reef limestone overlain by a bedded, bioclastic unit. The debris-producing organisms, framework-building corals and sponges, as well as the associated sedimentary features and microfacies, show striking similarities to the Late Triassic Dachstein Reef Limestone of central Europe. The only other reef sequence with which they compare is in the Yukon of Canada.
10.2307/3514541|Corals in the Pleistocene Ironshore Formation of Grand Cayman Island have been infested by Lithophaga sp. that formed borings up to 15 cm long and 4 cm in diameter. Although some of the borings were probably generated while the corals were alive most were formed after the corals had died. Some of the large coral heads (up to 1.5 m diameter) of Montastrea annularis and Diploria labyrinthiformis have had a 14 to 15 cm wide outer band almost totally transformed by the Lithophaga borings. The borings, which have a distinct clavate form, are assigned to the ichnospecies Gastrochaenolites torpedo Kelly and Bromley, 1984. Many of the borings are lined with laminated, fluorescent cryptocrystalline calcite that may have been formed by the merger of peloids. Similar material also encrusts many of the Lithophaga shells. After death the borings were filled with (1) cryptocrystalline calcite, (2) porous cryptocrystalline calcite, (3) honeycombed cryptocrystalline calcite, (3) pelsparite, and (4) pelmicrite which locally contains small calcitic ostracod(?) shells. The cryptocrystalline calcite is always fluorescent and thus contrasts sharply with the nonfluorescent calcite of the shells and the spar cement. The corallites around the Lithophaga borings are partly or totally occluded by (1) first generation, non-fluorescent aragonite cement, (2) second generation, non-fluorescent spar calcite, (3) fluorescent peloids, and (4) featureless, fluorescent cryptocrystalline calcite. The fact that the cryptocrystalline calcite in the corallites has the same fluorescent character as the cryptocrystalline calcite in the Lithophaga borings suggests that the two may be genetically related. The infestation of the coral heads by Lithophaga played a major role in the evolution of the diagenetic fabric in the coral heads. It is evident that the Lithophaga borings can (1) substantially weaken the coral heads thereby making them more susceptible to erosion, (2) serve to bind the substrate together by virtue of the dense calcareous linings in the borings, (3) liberate substantial amounts of calcium carbonate from the coral heads, (4) increase the rock-area available for further bioerosion by sponges, algae and fungi, and (5) by virtue of the empty borings provide protected sites for sediment accumulation.
3515860|Upper Triassic assemblages containing the terebratulid brachiopod Rhaetina gregaria from a shallow, intraplatform carbonate setting of the Fatra Formation are classified according to biofabric, geometry, and internal structure into 6 deposit types, which are interpreted as: (1) autochthonous primary biogenic, (2) autochthonous winnowed or sediment starved, (3) parautochthonous storm-wave, (4) parautochthonous storm wave/flow, (5) amalgamated stormreworked, and (6) allochthonous (long-term current/wave) deposits. Their distribution on the bed scale correlates with depth-related environmental gradients in regard to the position of fair-weather wave base, average storm wave base, and maximum storm wave base. The biofabric, geometry, and internal structure of brachiopod deposits were predominantly influenced by: (1) storm activity, related to variations in sedimentation rates and water energy; and (2) original variations in composition and spatial distribution of life associations. Fossil assemblages preserved in brachiopod deposits have a wide range of temporal resolution, ranging from census to environmentally condensed types. Brachiopod assemblages in the storm-reworked deposits probably were affected by catastrophic mortality. The distinction of brachiopod deposit types based on deposit-level criteria does not wholly correspond to the classification of taphofacies types based on intensity of shell alteration. The biofabric and associated deposit-level properties reflect final depositional processes (i.e., the rate and permanence of burial), whereas shell alteration of brachiopods reflects mainly variation in the nature of pre-burial environmental conditions. The lowest degree of alteration (i.e., low levels of bioerosion, micritization, encrustation, and disarticulation) is associated with deposits that were affected by storm-induced sudden burial. In general, settings with high proportions of micritic mud (associated with mixed brachiopod-bivalve associations) are characterized by relatively low alteration of brachiopods. These settings are in sharp contrast to hard-bottom settings (associated with coral associations), in which bioerosion and micritization are high. This difference in shell alteration is the effect of extrinsic factors related to lower turbidity, higher proportion of hardparts and higher storm reworking in latter settings. Autochthonous/parautochthonous benthic associations dominated by the short-looped terebratulid Rhaetina gregaria are typical of settings below the fair-weather wave base, with background low-energy condition. This is in contrast to high-energy/hard-bottom occurrences of this association from other regions. The difference in preservation potential of brachiopods due to differential extrinsic factors (e.g., between hard-and soft-bottom settings) can substantially bias the understanding their ecology and temporal shifts in environmental preferences. Data about substantial bioerosion/micritization of brachiopods in some deposit types indicate their higher durability and inherently higher preservation potential in contrast to actualistic data about the poor resistance of modern brachiopods to destruction.
20172966|Clay-rich units, locally termed "butter shales," contain the best-preserved trilobites in the richly fossiliferous Cincin-nation Series and likely provide the highest temporal resolution available within these rocks. Sedimentological and taphonomic evidence indicates that the 0.46-m-thick Mt. Orab "butter shale" bed of the Arnheim Formation is composed of a series of stacked event beds, each representing rapid deposition from a flow bearing fine-grained sediment, most likely associated with distal storm processes below storm-wave base. It contains sedimentary structures similar to those of distal mud turbidites, and comprises a total of at least seven, and possibly many more, alternating silt and clay couplets. These clay and silt layers are interpreted to represent the products of different energetic regimes in a series of discrete depositional events accumulated within a common depositional regime. Trilobites within individual clay beds represent census assemblages of animals alive at the same time, and evidence from sedimentology, taphonomy, and stratigraphic architecture are consistent with accumulation of the whole bed within a period from 10 to 10 years. Silt layers of the Mt. Orab events beds are interpreted to represent parautochthonous assemblages, while clay layers, although displaying reorientation of specimens, are interpreted as autochthonous assemblages. Both layers are deposited in a shallower-water environment than the comparable "granulosa" trilobite cluster of the Kope Formation, which represents an autochthonous assemblage with in-situ burial of trilobites.
20172994|There has been significant biological and environmental change in Caribbean coral reefs during the past 30 million years, including two periods of accelerated turnover of species in the zooxanthellate coral biota that may have been correlated with changes in regional sea-surface productivity during the Early Miocene and the Early Pleistocene. Skeletal extension rates measured on x-radiographs of 11 massive genera of fossil corals collected from Late Oligocene to Pleistocene units from across the Caribbean were analyzed to determine whether average coral growth responded to these regional environmental changes. The observed patterns were evaluated by comparisons with records of Recent coral growth rates taken from published literature. These analyses suggest that there is significant variation in average growth rate among corals living in the Recent Indowest Pacific, eastern Pacific, and Caribbean, even when broad ranges of taxa and habitats are intermingled. When applied to fossils, a similar analysis suggests that rates of growth do not change overall through time. One exception is during the Late Miocene, when rates of growth were significantly lower than from other fossil units or for Recent colonies from the Caribbean. However, the Late Miocene colonies sampled for this study lived in relatively deep, turbid habitats, so the observed reduced growth rates may have resulted from local low availability of light. Similar facies were not sampled in other stratigraphic intervals, so there is no strong evidence for reduced regional average growth rates for Caribbean corals during the past 30 million years.
10.2307/3515021|A new taphonomic method is proposed and used to confirm that muscular tissue was present in the arms of Early Mississippian advanced cladid crinoids. The method relies on the assumption of differential tissue decay rates, with muscle decaying more rapidly than ligament. In a crinoid with muscular arms, the arms should disarticulate prior to disarticulation of the ligament bound column segments, whereas in a crinoid with only ligaments in the arms, the arms and column segments will begin to disarticulate at approximately the same time. This method provides an independent means to test for the existence of muscles, and it avoids some problems encountered by relying exclusively on morphological characters. The existence of muscles in the arms of Early Mississippian crinoids is consistent with the widely held view that crinoid muscular arm articulations first evolved during the Early Devonian.
25835646|Ecological and taxonomic study of the mollusk-rich fauna of the Golfe d'Arguin, North Mauritania, investigates the various environmental influences affecting this tropical shelf. The upwelling of nutrient-rich waters leads to a highly productive environment under tropical conditions. The resulting mixed carbonate-siliciclastic sediment contains a large portion of calcareous components produced by heterotrophic organismse.g., mollusks, foraminifers, worms, barnaclesthat are reworked on the open shelf. On the basis of mollusk assemblages, six taphocoenoses are defined, all being characterized by a mixed fauna of tropical (e.g., Tellina densestriata), subtropical (e.g., Macoma cumana) and temperate (e.g., Spisula subtruncata) species. Differences between the assemblages are related to the mediumgrain size ranging from mud to gravelthat results from local hydrodynamic conditions and water depth. Among carbonate grains, Donax burnupi shells are very abundant in the swell-exposed, northern part of the Golfe d'Arguin and reflect the tropical to subtropical, high-energy, and high-nutrient waters. Mollusk assemblages are demonstrated to be a sensitive tool for deciphering complex environmental conditions in sedimentary archives.
3514460|Three kinds of paleoecological succession have been recognized: 1) long-term (through a considerable stratigraphic interval), 2) reef succession, and 3) short-term (usually recorded in a single bed). The third kind must have occurred under more or less constant conditions of external environment, and over a short time interval. It is, then, the only type of fossil succession which is directly comparable to modern ecological successions. The nature and causes of short-term succession are the subject of this study. We believe short-term paleoecological successions were often controlled by gradual change in the nature of the substratum during or shortly after deposition. We call these processes of substratum change synsedimentary modification; three kinds of processes are recognized. First, water loss from the substratum produces gradual change in its consistency from fluid to soft, and ultimately to firm. The nature and relative timing of these consistency changes can be discerned by observing burrow/sediment interrelationships. Fossil assemblages commonly reflect these changes by containing a mix of morphotypes, each of which was adapted to a different substratum consistency. The second modification process involves the changing mix of substratum niches as successive taxa colonize the environment. The most common example is the paving of initially "soupy" substrata by sediment "floaters", and the subsequent use of the skeletons of the pavers as settlement sites for later population. Finally, sediment may undergo substantial change early in its history by marine cementation. The process is patchy in three-dimensional distribution, so at any given time the substratum consists of scattered areas of hardground interspersed with areas of loose sediment. Again the ultimate result is the mixing in one bed of morphotypes adapted to these divergent substratum types. Subsequent lithification may encrypt the relative timing of various cements, but petrographic analysis allows its resolution. The examples given here are drawn from the Middle Ordovicion. The acquisition of the kind of data required for discernment of these processes and resultant assemblages requires more careful sedimentologic analysis than is common in paleoecological studies.
10.2307/3514603|The last septum and adjacent portions of a Carboniferous nautiloid Michelinoceras unicamera (Smith) have been subjected to a finite element analysis involving 387 nodal points concentrated at the septal suture of the last septum. At a depth of about 1125 m and an external water pressure of 11.35 MPa, the shell would have imploded almost simultaneously in the septum, the sutures and the shell walls overlying the septum. Stress distributions support the validity of the highest septal strength index so far obtained from any nautiloid and suggest the Michelinoceras unicamera lived in basins and continental slope environments near southern Oklahoma. Our analysis shows the structural importance of the mural ridge underlying the septal suture: without it, the implosion depth would have been halved.
27670595|We report on exquisitely preserved specimens of freshwater siliceous algae belonging to the classes Synurophyceae (scaled chrysophytes) and Bacillariophyceae (diatoms) from middle Eocene lake sediments in Northern Canada. When considered in the context of closest extant relatives, these microfossils present unequivocal biogeographic and ecological affinities with warm-water ochrophyte assemblages. We have identified scales that are unambiguously assigned to Mallomonas bangladeshica, a chrysophyte now restricted to tropical lake ecosystems. The diatom genus Actinella is also well represented in these sediments, again with the most comparable extant congeners found in tropical to subtropical localities, particularly in the Southern Hemisphere. We surmise that fundamental biogeographic reorganizations among lacustrine algae took place during Eocene hothouse paleoclimates. In this light, future climate warming should be viewed as a potent vector for similar community shifts, with attendant limnological implications.
10.2307/3515294|Tugrikin-shireh, south-central Gobi Desert, Mongolia, consists of about 1.5 km of west- and northwest-facing exposures that produce a rich vertebrate fauna dominated by the ornithischian dinosaur Protoceratops. The sandstones of Tugrik are thick-bedded (2-9 m) and are distinguished by large-scale (10's to 100's of meters in cross-section), high-angle (28-34) trough-cross stratification. The axes of the cross stratification dip east-northeast. These and other sedimentary features indicate eolian deposition, driven by westerly winds. At Tugrik, bedding planes as well as inferred slip faces, are dominated by a complex calcite- and iron-oxide-cemented ichnofauna. At least three different trace fossil types are preserved. A biologically active ecosystem is reflected by the vertebrate body fossil and invertebrate trace fossil assemblages. Protoceratops specimens are commonly found articulated and semi-articulated, and oriented parallel to the maximum dip direction of the sediments in which they are entombed. Limbs are commonly contracted and necks are pulled back, in poses indicative of dessication. In some cases, death probably occurred by suffocation during sand storms, but in other cases, by less dramatic processes. Turgik may constitute the basinward continuation of a nearby braid plain-to-eolian suite of depositional environments. Penecontemporaneous deposits in northern China reveal similar suites of environments, suggesting a uniform depositional response in the region to Late Cretaceous climates.
27670618|This study deals with the recovery of chitinoidellid specimens in palynological residues and their usefulness as biochronologic tools. We sampled specimenswhich represent a very small group of ancient planktonic ciliates of uncertain origin that appeared in the early Tithonian and lasted until the late Tithonian in the Jurassicfrom the upper part of the Ammonitico Rosso Formation, outcropping in southeastern Spain (Sierra de Crevillente, Congost section). Chitinoidellid associations allowed us to attribute the lower part of the succession studied to the early Tithonian (Chitinoidella Zone). The palynological preparations reveal urn-shaped bodies 60140  long, which we interpret as chitinoidellid remains. These organic-walled objects show the organic nature of chitinoidellid loricae, which, as previously suggested, were probably chitinous. The loricae consisted of a continuous organic lining and suggest that the presence of calcite crystals was limited to single dispersed crystallites rather than their occurrence in layers, as suggested by earlier reports. This study shows that palynological extraction of chitinoidellids can yield more information on the morphology and, thus, on the phylogeny of this planktonic group than the traditional thin-section approach.
27670494|Body size is one of the most significant organismal characteristics because of its strong association with nearly all important ecological and physiological characteristics. While direct body mass measurement (or estimation from other size metrics) is not feasible with most extinct taxa, body volume is a measurable and general proxy for fossil size. This study explores the reliability of several metrics that can be used to estimate the body volume of Paleozoic invertebrates of various sizes, shapes, taxonomic affinities, and ecological habits. The ATD model, based on the product of lengths of the three major body axes (anteroposterior, transverse, and dorsoventral), is simple and widely applicable. Models specific to particular morphological and taxonomic groups are slightly more accurate than this ATD model, but the advantages are minor. The ATD model is consistent with previous studies demonstrating widespread shape allometrythat is, small taxa tend to have globose geometries while large ones tend to be conical, even within the same taxonomic group. The ATD model successfully predicts the volume of 10 validation samples that were excluded from development of the original model. Because the linear measurements used to estimate volume are easy to obtain from specimens in the field or from published work, estimates of body volume can be incorporated into paleontological analyses, even those spanning multiple phyla.
10.2307/3515178|Previous studies of the Eocene-lowermost Oligocene section at the ACGS #4 borehole (Mays Landing, NJ; Fig. 1) recognized physical surfaces using litho- and gamma log-stratigraphy and inferred hiatuses using bio-, magneto-, and isotopic stratigraphy. This study integrates Eocene to Oligocene benthic foraminiferal studies with previous work, identifies additional paraconformities, and places benthic foraminiferal changes into a sequence stratigraphic framework. Quantitative and qualitative analyses of benthic foraminifera indicate neritic (0-200 m) paleodepths throughout the Eocene section, despite high relative abundances of planktonic foraminifera. Benthic foraminiferal assemblages at the ACGS #4 borehole indicate outer neritic (100-200 m) paleodepths in the Deal Member (lower-middle Eocene), except for an intrusion of a shallower (middle neritic: 30-100 m) fauna near the lower/middle Eocene boundary. Paleodepths shallowed upsection to middle neritic in the Shark River Formation (upper middle-lower upper Eocene) and ACGS  Unit (upper Eocene-lowermost Oligocene) and inner neritic (0-30 m) to marginal marine in the Mays Landing Unit (lowermost Oligocene). Although the ACGS #4 borehole provides a reasonably continuous Eocene to lowermost Oligocene shallow-water record, integrated stratigraphic studies (sequence, litho-, bio-, isotopic and magneto-stratigraphy) including benthic foraminifera document that deposition was punctuated by at least 6 hiatuses. The hiatuses are associated with unconformities that bracket 7 sequences: Deal Member Sequences A, B, and C; Shark River Formation Sequences Di and Dii; ACGS  Unit Sequence E; and the Mays Landing Unit Sequence F. Major biofacies and paleobathymetric changes are associated with most of the unconformities that define the bases of the sequences. The unconformities at the ACGS #4 borehole correlate or are consistent with major sequence boundaries of Haq et al. (1987).
10.2307/3515101|Published correlations of the extensive set of altered volcanic ash beds (K-bentonites) present in the upper Middle Ordovician rocks of New York State imply that the lower Climacograptus (Diplacanthograptus) spiniferus Zone, the entire Orthograptus ruedemanni Zone, and the upper Corynoides americanus Zone are coeval. Precise new information on the ranges of graptolite and conodont species and the position of zonal boundaries within key Mohawk Valley sections together with new data on the occurrence of K-bentonites provide the foundation for an alternative, integrated chronostratigraphic model for the Middle Ordovician of the Mohawk Valley and the St. Lawrence Lowland of Quebec. This alternative model reconciles the K-bentonite and biostratigraphic correlations, but remains to be independently tested. Preliminary data on major element compositions of glass inclusions within quartz phenocrysts demonstrate that stratigraphically separate K-bentonite beds can be readily distinguished and correlated between geographically separate localities. This technique for geochemical fingerprinting of K-bentonites has the precision and accuracy required for a definitive test of different chronostratigraphic models. Our revised stratigraphic correlations suggest a modified interpretation of the relationships between the Trenton Group and the Utica Shale. The lower Utica Shale (Flat Creek Member) is the lateral equivalent of much of the lower Trenton Group and is older than the Denley Limestone with which it is traditionally equated. The Dolgeville Formation is probably of very limited duration. Finally, our model also implies that subsidence of the Appalachian foreland basin and westward onlap of the Utica Shale took place in three distinct pulses during early Kirkfieldian, mid-Shermanian, and late Edenian time.
27670612|The Serpukhovian (Namurian A) stratigraphy of the Ostrava Formation, Upper Silesian Coal Basin, Czech Republic, consists of coal-bearing paralic sediments underlain by marine deposits in a cyclothemic nature similar to those in the Pennsylvanian of Euramerica. The thickness of the formation exceeds 3000 m, in which >170 coals are identified in a foreland basin setting. Fifty-five genetic cycles are identified in the present study, using transgressional erosional surfaces as lower and upper boundaries. Terrestrial plant-macrofossil assemblages are preserved within each cycle, mostly associated with coals, and these represent a sampling of the coastal plain vegetation. New high-precision isotope dilutionthermal ionization mass spectrometry U-Pb ages on zircons from tonsteins of two coals provide chronometric constraints for the Serpukhovian. Unweighted Pair Group Method with Arithmetic Mean clustering and Bayesian statistical classification group macrofloral assemblages into four distinct stratigraphic clusters, with assemblages persisting for <18 cycles before compositional change. Cycle duration, based on Ludmila (328.840.16 Ma) and Karel (328.010.08 Ma) tonsteins, overlaps the short-period (100 kyr) eccentricity cycle at the 95% confidence interval. These dates push the beginning of the Serpukhovian several million years deeper in time. An estimate for the Visean-Serpukhovian boundary is proposed at 330 Ma. Late Mississippian wetland ecosystems persisted for >1.8 million years before regional perturbation, extirpation, or extinction of taxa occurred. Significant changes in the composition of macrofloral clusters occur across major marine intervals. These results accord with other estimates of Carboniferous tropical wetland community persistence. Hence, vegetational persistence was characteristic of peat-accumulating and mineral-substrate wetland ecosystems beginning in the Late Mississippian, when there is evidence for the first appearance of eustatically controlled cyclothems during the buildup of Gondwanan glaciation.
27670513|The occurrence of the Rosselia ichnofabric in the basal sandstone beds of the late Miocene Pullen Formation (basal Wildcat Group) provides strong evidence that supports our interpretation of a littoral-to-inner-shelf depositional setting for the lowest division of this formation. These sediments were deposited on a wave-cut platform developed along a steep coastline. Our study reconfirms the utility of the Rosselia ichnofabric in the identification of inner-shelf depositional settings having high net deposition rates, represented by the basal Pullen sandstone beds. We demonstrate how recognition of this unique ichnofabric can inform larger-scale tectonic interpretations. The correct interpretation of paleoenvironment in the case of the lowest Pullen beds confirms the view that rapid regional subsidence occurred shortly after their deposition. This allows us to eliminate a previously published alternate hypothesis that the initial accumulation of Pullen sediments occurred at bathyal depths on an inner trench slope.
27670518|Downslope fossil contamination is the result of erosion and subsequent redeposition of fossil material onto lower stratigraphic horizons. This produces time-averaged and potentially anomalous faunal records. Here, we describe vertebrate concentrations in Bighorn Basin (Wyoming) conglomerates that are early Wasatchian (earliest Eocene) in age (Wa-1) and rest erosionally upon Wa-0 strata deposited during the PaleoceneEocene thermal maximum (PETM). The Wa-1 conglomerates were deposited during river channel migration and sheetflooding onto abandoned parts of an avulsion belt immediately after the PETM. Dark-colored Wa-1 fossil teeth eroding from the conglomerates are now mixed in places with the lighter-colored teeth of Wa-0 mammals. The spatial distribution of the conglomerate fossils and a vertical model of downslope contamination, based on species proportions from overlying stratigraphic intervals, are used to calculate an expected contribution of fossil contaminants to an assemblage. Results of this model are applied to address the principal weakness of the hypothesis that transient decreases in mammalian body size during the PETM were an evolutionary dwarfing response to climate change. Rare occurrences of large taxa with congeners of small size would refute the argument for evolutionary dwarfing, but our results indicate that such rare occurrences can be explained by downslope contamination alone. We conclude more generally that alluvial architecture is important for understanding the potential for downslope fossil contamination and that complications imposed by this type of contamination can be assessed quantitatively.
3515797|Six egg-filled depressions discovered in the Upper Cretaceous Anacleto Formation (Campanian) of Patagonia, Argentina, and interpreted as dinosaur nests, provide the only known evidence of titanosaurid sauropod nest construction. These nest trace fossils show truncation of sedimentary structures as well as differences in texture between the host substrate and in-filling sediment. Titanosaurid sauropods excavated and laid eggs in open nests rather than burying clutches in sediment. In addition, this paper establishes criteria for definitive recognition of excavated nests in the stratigraphic record.
10.2307/3514774|Three common coral assemblages have been quantitatively identified in the middle Miocene Anguilla Formation of Anguilla (Lesser Antilles) using cluster analysis on three-dimensional coordinates derived from nonmetric multidimensional scaling. The data consisted of tallies of coral species identified at 25 points within 178 1-meter-square quadrats placed haphazardly across vertical exposures of coral-rich lenses at five localities. Eighteen species were recorded. The resulting clusters intergrade and are characterized by moderately high diversities which are not significantly different. They include: 1) a thick-branched assemblage dominated by Porites portoricensis, 2) a mound-shaped assemblage including Porites waylandi, Siderastrea conferta, Goniopora hilli, and G. imperatoris, and 3) a platy/thin-branched assemblage composed of Porites macdonaldi and Porites baracoaensis. The results of chi-square tests show that the assemblages are randomly distributed, both in space and in stratigraphic sequence. The patchy, intergradational distribution of the assemblages, their equally variable but high diversities, and their association with calcareous sand lenses suggest that they probably all developed as small patch reefs or thickets of varying composition on a shallow, gently sloping backreef platform. The three assemblages developed under similar environmental conditions in one major reef zone on a platform subjected to frequent abiotic disturbance by shifting sand. The mere existence of distinctive assemblages of reef-building corals having different shapes, therefore, needs not in itself imply ecological succession or large-scale physical environmental gradients, as is commonly interpreted in many similar fossil reef sequences.
10.2307/3515181|The Middle to Upper Devonian Iberg Reef was an oceanic atoll within the Rhenish Trough of the Variscan Geosyncline. It existed for at least 15 million years before it was drowned shortly before the turn of the Frasnian-Famennian. The spatial distribution of facies and early diagenetic features within these Frasnian reef limestones confirms the reef's paleogeographical location between the equator and 30 south. The southeastern, windward side of the atoll was dominated by massive stromatoporoids and bulbous corals as well as by encrusting and dendroid stromatoporoids. Reef-builders were rarely preserved in situ. Several generations of early fibrous cement form thick isopachous crusts on the limestone components, confirming early lithification. On the northwestern, leeward side, platy and branching stromatoporoids and corals predominated. They were mostly preserved in growth position. Fine-grained sediment forms a large portion of the limestone matrix. A leeward lagoon entrance was marked by large thickets of branching rugose corals and a mixture of back reef and fore reef faunal elements in the northwesternmost lagoonal limestones. A chain of stromatoporoid gravel cays formed inside the lagoon due to wave-refraction on the southern reef front.
27670537|The Kimmeridgian shallow-water carbonates of the Swiss Jura Mountains display stratigraphic levels containing mass accumulations of nerineoidean gastropods. The macro- and microfacies of the rocks with these nerineoidean assemblages suggest that their occurrence was related to water depth, physical energy within the habitat, sedimentation rate, substrate stability, and food supply. Typical nerineoidean shells are high spired and exhibit unique spiral laminae (folds) on the internal walls. Mass accumulations consisting of large, heavy individuals are believed to represent a semisessile, suspension-feeding community that utilized an external food source. During times of enhanced precipitation and run-off from the hinterland, terrestrial organic matter may have been supplied into the shallow sea, thus forming a source of food for the nerineoids. Alternatively, relative sea-level change during transgression may have led to large-scale coastal erosion and flooding of the platform, also potentially leading to a mobilization of organic matter. Size and morphology of the high-spired shells seem to indicate a trend toward maximal external volume. Development of folds within the shell is interpreted as a modification to maintain a small internal volume. The faunal and floral composition of the strata indicates a suspension-rich, high-energy environment with a low-sedimentation rate and a stable substrate. This allowed mass colonization by epifaunal nerineoids, which, in turn, formed a frameworklike structure. The heavy shells acted as a grid, trapping the sediment in between. In this way, a reinforced carbonate accumulation formed.
3515840|Data from modern subtidal brachiopod-mollusk dominated death assemblages are used to investigate the effect of sieve size on taphonomic signature, comparing bivalves and brachiopods. The data comprise a total of 4439 specimens, mainly fragments (93%), sorted into five size fractions, and scored for four taphonomic variables: fragmentation, surface alteration, bioerosion, and encrustation. The taphonomic signatures of bivalve and brachiopod shells change as a function of sieve size, primarily from loss of encrusters on small, mobile fragments. Bivalves and brachiopods show significant differences (Wilcoxon rank-sum,  = 0.05) in taphonomic signature that become more pronounced in the fine fractions, mainly as a result of different levels of bioerosion. Bivalves seem to become fragmented after weakening from bioerosion, whereas brachiopods apparently are more prone to mechanical breakage. Thus, brachiopod shells may be shorter-lived in the coarse fractions and enter the fine fractions with less accumulated damage. Due to intrinsic taxonomic differences in the response to taphonomic processes, death assemblages with similar levels of taphonomic modification may have accumulated on different temporal scales. Comparative studies seeking taphonomic control must strive to use material from the same size fractions to avoid spurious results based on sampling procedure alone.
27670554|A distinctive, disturbed surface with numerous soft-sediment impressions occurs within a wet interdune interval of Jurassic Navajo Sandstone at the Coyote Buttes along the Arizona-Utah border. These high-density impressions are interpreted as footprints that comprise a dinosaur trampled surface. This surface displays an unusual combination of multiple overlapping track types and sizes, distinct to modified footprint features that include claws and toes and rare tail traces. The trampled surface covers 3000 m2 with an average density of 12 impressions/m2 in its main extent. Although modern water collection and biofilms typical of weathering potholes or pits are superimposed on this surface, the primary origin of the impression features are trace fossil structures formed prior to lithification. Four criteria distinguish the impressions as vertebrate in origin: (1) largeup to several tens of centimetersrepeating identifiable foot morphologies; (2) impression floors surrounded by soft-sediment marginal ridges; (3) impressions that are rarely flat and are typically oriented at an angle into the sediment (media) and indicate a clear direction of travel; and (4) multiple in situ ichnofossils on a moist interdune surface that resulted in soft-sediment deformation. At least three ichnogeneracf. Eubrontes, cf. Anchisauripus, cf. Grallatorand the tracks attributed to a sauropodomorph appear as regular to asymmetric penetrations into the media with digitate features, commonly accompanied by soft-sediment marginal ridges of displaced sand preserved in the sandstone. The trampled surface provides paleoecologic and paleoclimatologic proxies that suggest a pluvial climate shift likely induced groundwater saturation of an eolian interdune that attracted dinosaurs to the area. The trampled surface provides valuable data for refining ecologic and climatic sensitivities recorded in Early Jurassic eolian deposits.
10.2307/3514464|Oxygen and carbon isotope analysis of Upper Maastrichtian and lowermost Danian pelagic limestones and marls from Zumaya, Spain indicates that several major isotopic excursions occurred both before and during the Cretaceous/Tertiary (K/T) boundary event. Each of these excursions involved a synchronous negative shift in <sup>18</sup>O and <sup>13</sup>C of approximately 2 per mil. The isotopic excursion that occurs at the Cretaceous/Tertiary boundary has previously been interpreted by most workers in terms of biologic and oceanographic changes associated with an extraterrestrial impact. However, our data indicate that this excursion is not significantly different from several others that preceed it, suggesting that the boundary excursion is not a unique event. These excursions are interpreted as indicators of episodic warming events of several 100,000 years duration with associated decreases in upwelling and primary productivity. Their occurrence in the latest Cretaceous may reflect the transition from the equator dominated ocean circulation of the Cretaceous to the polar water-dominated circulation of the Cenozoic. Inoceramid and ammonite macrofossils do not persist to the K/T boundary in this section. Their disappearances apparently coincide with two distinct negative isotopic excursions. This suggests that their extinction in this basin was associated with surface-water warming events and decreases in productivity before the K/T boundary event.
10.2307/3515437|Ostracodes and agglutinated foraminifera characterize lagoonal, estuarine, marsh, and nonmarine depositional systems that span the land/sea transition. Using microfossil and sedimentary data, high-resolution paleoenvironmental change is documented in an Early Carboniferous marginal marine depositional system that was previously interpreted as nonmarine. There are five main paleoenvironmental phases: (1) low-energy bay dominated by the euryhaline marine ostracode Copelandella novascotica associated with glauconitic shale and primary framboidal pyrite; (2) restricted nearshore dominated by opportunistic paraparchitacean ostracodes (Shemonaella scotoburdigalensis, Shemonaella tatei, and Chamishaella sp.), Cavellina sp., and post-mortem Carbonita scalpellus associated with hummocky cross-stratified siltstone and shale; (3) coastal pond dominated by C. scalpellus and Carbonita rankiniana associated with pedoturbated calcareous mudstones; (4) distal lagoon dominated by paraparchitaceans, Bairdia sp., Geisina sp., and Youngiella sp., all associated with silty glauconitic shale; and 5) coastal marsh dominated by the agglutinated foraminifera Trochammina sp. associated with calcareous mudstones and in situ lycopsid trees. Low diversity, high dominance, and large populations characterize the microfossil assemblages that resemble modern ecosystems where physical and chemical conditions are unstable. The Horton Bluff Formation records the brackish-freshwater transition at the landward terminus of an Early Carboniferous marine transgression in the Maritimes Basin.
10.2307/3514744|Taphonomic analysis of more than 3000 specimens of crinoids and blastoids from 14 localities from south-central Kentucky and north-central Tennessee reveals differences in preservational style among five carbonate and associated clastic facies. Collections from each locality were sorted on the basis of a 9-point taphonomic scale ranging from fully articulated specimens with arms and column to isolated plates. Degree of skeletal articulation is used as a relative measure of burial rate and autochthony. Preservational style of a pelmatozoan assemblage is the product of both depositional processes and differential taphonomic behavior of different morphotypes. The taphonomic profile for an assemblage is strongly influenced by the preservational style of its dominant pelmatozoan taxa. Taking this taxonomic and morphologic bias into account, both autochthonous and allochthonous pelmatozoan-rich facies are recognized in the Fort Payne Formation. Carbonate facies judged to be chiefly autochthonous are 1) crinoidal packstone buildups showing a full range of preservation including articulated specimens, and 2) wackestone buildups dominated by complete calyxes lacking arms and column. Green shales associated with carbonate buildups are dominated by disarticulated specimens but include complete calyxes and arm segments, suggesting slow background deposition punctuated by periodic rapid influxes. Allochthonous carbonates include 1) sheetlike packstones dominated by complete and partial calyxes, and 2) channelform packstones dominated by disarticulated skeletal debris with occasional fully articulated crinoids. Fort Payne carbonate facies in north-central Tennessee are exclusively allochthonous, sheetlike packstones, whereas both allochthonous and autochthonous facies occur in Kentucky proximal to the Borden Front. The taphonomic character and distribution of pelmatozoan-rich facies in the Fort Payne in Kentucky and Tennessee are consistent with a progradational, basin-filling depositional model.
25835599|Upper Barruelian, "Saberian," and Stephanian B (Kasimovianlower Gzhelian) strata in northwestern Spain represent a strongly subsiding alluvial plain connected to the Paleotethys and adjacent to a mountainous hinterland. The rocks have been deformed into steeply dipping, often isoclinal synclines delimited by foreland-directed thrust faults; a steep basin margin with paleovalleys occurs on the hinterland side. One of these tectonic outliers is the La Magdalena Coalfield, of "Saberian" age, where the quantification of a substantial floral record (140 taxa) from 85 localities in 1200 m of strata allows us to observe changes in floral composition through time matched with broad changes in sedimentary facies corresponding to increased remoteness from a receding basin margin. Within the context of a humid environment, a predominantly fluvial facies changed upward and in time into more generalized semi-lacustrine and peat-forming facies. Although pteridosperms and marattialean tree ferns (pecopterids) are dominant throughout, a proportional increase in tree ferns is observed for the higher part of the succession where calamitaceans become less common and lycopsids more noticeable. These floral changes reflect wetter sedimentary conditions, conducive to the production of coals (high ash) of limited lateral extent.
10.2307/3514824|Pools of hypersaline, anoxic brine on the continental slope of the Gulf of Mexico promote the preservation of organic material to an exceptional degree. One type of brine pool, the brine-filled pockmark, supplies nutritive methane to a symbiont-containing mussel that forms dense beds around the pool. Fish, attracted by this abundant food supply, are subjected to lethal concentrations of H<sub>2</sub>S, anoxia, and osmotic stress. Many die, sink into the pool, are preserved by the brine, and possibly are buried by the collapsing walls of the pockmark. These features are potential fossil lagerstatten.
10.2307/3515162|Two taxodiaceous conifer pollen species form the dominant components among sporomorphs of the Lower Oligocene Vicksburg Group in the eastern Gulf Coast. The two species, Sequoiapollenites lapillipites and Sequoiapollenites sp. 1, are very prominent (20-70%) in the Mint Spring Marl and Marianna Limestone at two localities in SE Mississippi and SW Alabama. These two lithostratigraphic units constitute the transgressive systems tract of the Tejas A Gulf Coast (TAGC)-4.4 sequence defined by Tew and Mancini (1992). Thus, the concentration of these two Sequoia type pollen species may be used as a marker for these transgressive deposits in the eastern Gulf Coast. This paper provides sporomorph information for all but one of the lithostratigraphic units of the Vicksburg Group, and infers paleoclimatic conditions from the sporomorph assemblage.
10.2307/3515371|Free living, nodular aggregates of non-geniculate coralline algae (rhodoliths) have occurred since the Cenozoic in diverse marine environments around the world. Fossil rhodolith morphology and distribution have been widely used as paleoecological indicators, particularly of water motion. However, few studies have verified these relationships in living beds. The relationship between water motion and rhodolith movement was examined in three subtidal rhodolith beds off the southwestern coast of the Gulf of California, one dominated by wave action and two dominated by tidal currents. Field experiments and simultaneous video and current measurements taken during winter 1996 showed that rhodoliths in the shallow margins (4.5 m depths) of wavedominated beds moved frequently due to threshold-level velocities from wind-propagated waves. Rhodoliths did not move in the middle and at deep margins of the bed due to attenuation of wave energy. Historical wind records and wave-forcasting analysis indicate that shallow rhodolith movement is frequent only in the winter. In deep tidally dominated beds, maximum yearly tidal currents were not sufficient to move rhodoliths. Video and SCUBA surveys showed that bioturbation is an important mechanism for rhodolith movement in all beds. Rhodoliths in 12-m-deep tidally dominated beds and in the deep margins of wave-dominated beds appear to move only occasionally due to bioturbation and severe storms. Results imply that rhodolith morphology and distribution are dependent on a combination of factors. These factors, especially bioturbation, should be considered when using rhodoliths as paleoecological indicators.
10.2307/3515363|The strange biota of Neoproterozoic sea bottoms become more understandable if we assume that otherwise soft sediments were sealed by firm and erosion-resistant biomats. This allowed "mat encrusters" (vendobionts; trilobozoan and other sponges) to get attached to sandy bottoms, and molluscan "mat scratchers" to scrape off an algal film, as if they were living on rocks. Minute conical "mat stickers" (Cloudina) probably required a sticky substrate to become stabilized in upright position. Horizontal burrows are interpreted as the works of worm-like "undermat miners." Only the latter lifestyle appears to go back to the Mesoproterozoic; the others emerged in Vendian times and virtually disappeared when matgrounds became restricted to hostile environments in the wake of the Cambrian ecological revolution.
10.2307/3515127|Experimental studies of conodont abrasion and petrographic examination of conodont-bearing marine, marginal-marine, and eolian facies of the Morgan Formation (M. Pennsylvanian, Utah and Colorado) suggest that abrasion of conodonts is insignificant in aqueous environments, and likely to occur to a major degree only under eolian transport. High-energy marine transport conditions simulated in a tumbler containing quartz sand produced abrasion of conodonts at a scale detectable only with SEM. Eolian transport conditions simulated in a glass "wind tube" using a similar range of quartz sand sizes produced subtle, yet visually detectable abrasion. Conodonts sampled from high-energy subtidal carbonate facies of the Morgan Formation (Middle Pennsylvanian, Utah and Colorado) are unabraded, irrespective of the presence of quartz sand, and both platform and delicate ramiform elements are represented. Conodonts sampled from mixed siliciclastic/carbonate eolian facies are highly abraded. Only the most robust posterior parts of Pa elements are usually preserved; fine surface details and denticles are worn, and anterior blades are missing. Laboratory simulations confirm the interpretation that marine processes generally are insufficient to physically abrade small phosphatic skeletal grains in the presence of sand-size mineral grains. Variability in preservation of surface details, both in laboratory and field samples, reflects the varied histories of individual grains with respect to transportation, repeated burial and exhumation, and length of exposure to bombardment and abrasion by quartz sand. Such a variable taphonomic history precludes the possibility of quantifying the extent of residence times in eolian environments for individual grains.
10.2307/3514736|Four coral reefs near Ponce, Puerto Rico were examined for the effects of terrigenous influx into a reef environment. The four coral reefs are successively farther from a point source of frequently occurring, westward-moving terrigenous sediment plumes which are generated by resuspension of fine-grained sediments. The coral cover was measured from linear photographic transects parallel to each 5 meter depth. Living coral was marked on each photograph, the species identified, and area of cover was measured with a Jandel digitizer pad and SigmaScan program. Statistics were compiled for percent cover by species, total cover, and number of colonies. Total coral cover was reduced near the source of terrigenous sediment influx. Coral cover and diversity increased with distance from the source and amounts of sediment trapped on the reefs decreased, suggesting that the plume influx was an important factor contributing to the deterioration of these reefs. Sediment stress has drastically reduced the coral cover and number of species. The reefs with high sediment inputs showed decreased coral species diversity and percent cover. Sediment-resistant coral species tolerated this adverse environment and their percent of cover remained relatively constant. The effects from sediment influx include partial or total burial of coral colonies, bleaching, and colonization of the coral surface by filamentous bluegreen algae and sponges. The reduced light levels resulted in domination of the community by deeper fore-reef coral.
27670478|A substantial complication to using the oxygen isotope composition (18O) of vertebrate bioapatite in paleoclimate studies is the need to distinguish variation due to temporal changes in the 18O of surface waters from that due to temperature-dependent fractionation during biomineralization. One solution is multiple-taxon comparisons using data from coexisting homeothermic and heterothermic animals. Fossil emydid turtles have been suggested to be potentially useful as functional homeotherms because (1) modern emydids employ behaviors, such as basking, to restrict skeletal growth to a narrow temperature range; (2) their aquatic habitat constrains the isotopic variability of dietary inputs; and (3) emydids have a dense fossil record. But because turtles lack teeth and therefore tooth enamel, sampling must focus on bone, which is potentially more susceptible to diagenetic alteration. This study examines the 18O of carbonate (18Oc) and phosphate (18Op) in hydroxylapatite from co-occurring emydids and heterotherms (crocodilians and gars) from the PaleoceneEocene of the Clarks Fork Basin, Wyoming. Previous isotopic studies of this area provide an extensive data set for comparison with the results of this study. Bone and enamel 18Oc values measured here exhibit a greater range (1632 Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water) than previously observed, suggesting alteration, while the range of 18Op values (915) is within that predicted by presumably unaltered mammalian tooth enamel 18Oc. While high crystallinity indices (0.280.55) and a lack of covariation between 18Oc and 18Op suggest alteration of one or both of these constituents, a strong correlation between crocodilian enamel and bone 18Op suggests bone phosphate may be reliable.
20173019|This paper explores the taphonomic effect that differences in body size and habitat breadth have on the end-Rancholabrean fossil record of carnivoran species. The preservation and recovery potential of carnivoran fossils in cave and noncave deposits are also compared. Identifying the nature and assessing the effect of taphonomic biases are among the preliminary steps in deciding the kind of evolutionary and paleoecological questions that can be addressed with the available fossil information. Few studies have examined taphonomic biases that affect the fossil record of mammals, and most of these have focused on herbivores. Results suggest that differences in habitat breadth of extant carnivorans are not associated with differences in frequencies of their fossil remains. There is a significant, positive relationship between body size and frequency of identified fossil specimens in noncave deposits. Outside of caves, the frequency of identified fossil specimens of extant, small carnivorans is significantly less than that of large ones. Results indicate also that the species richness of extant, small carnivorans is underrepresented relative to that of larger carnivorans, especially in the end-Rancholabrean fossil record derived from noncave localities. No significant differences in the frequency of fossil remains of species that differed in body size were found within caves.
3515695|Unusual fossil macrofloras from South America (Peru, Bolivia, Brazil), Africa (Niger), India, and Australia are distinctly different from both the Early and Late Carboniferous floras of Gondwana. These floras can be correlated with each other based on macrofloral and palynologic composition, and dated as Late Visean to earliest Serpukhovian through palynologic data from several floras and isotopic data from Australia. The floras are dominated by pteridosperm foliage and characterized by the occurrence of tree-lycopsids, and represent a warm-temperate, frost-free floral belt in Gondwana that reached from 30 to as far as 60 South that existed directly before the onset of the major episode of the Carboniferous glaciation. The plants lived during an interval of very warm climate as indicated by the width and extent of the floral belt, conditions that facilitated the migration of plants into this area from other parts of the globe. The term Paraca floral realm is redefined and extended to include all of these Late Visean-earliest Serpukhovian floras throughout Gondwana.
27670569|Sediments of late BerriasianHauterivian age have been analyzed from DSDP Holes 534A and 603B in the western Atlantic Ocean with respect to calcareous nannofossils and bulk-rock geochemistry (13Ccarb, CaCO3). The aim of this study was to obtain a detailed reconstruction of the paleoceanographic conditions in the western Atlantic during the Valanginian positive 13Ccarb excursion. The well-constrained stratigraphic framework for both sites allows for a supraregional comparison with previous studies in Western Europe. At both sites, the Berriasian-Valanginian boundary interval is characterized by a 20% increase in the relative abundance of calcareous nannofossil species that are indicative of elevated surface-water nutrient levels. These changes in the trophic system coincide with the turning point toward more positive 13Ccarb values at the M15M14 magnetochron boundary, leading to the well-known Valanginian positive 13Ccarb excursion. These changes also correspond with an increase in bulk-rock Sr/Ca ratios, enhanced burial of organic matter, and, at Hole 534A, a decrease in rock-forming nannoconids. Calcareous nannofossil data do not support a substantial cooling in the western Atlantic, as previously suggested by the geochemistry of belemnite rostra, but the observed increase in nutrients is consistent with enhanced upwelling during the Valanginian. Owing to controversial placement of the ValanginianHauterivian boundary and different absolute ages for the Valanginian stage, it is still unclear to what extent the Paran-Etendeka volcanism might have caused the biotic and carbon-cycle perturbations. Our data suggest that the changes documented in the marine plankton system are at least concomitant with the initial, minor phase of the Paran-Etendeka volcanism.
40606426|The recent advent of low magnification microwear analysis has allowed the efficient study of entire vertebrate faunas using only an optical stereomicroscope. Photographic visualization of microwear by this means has proven difficult, however, and, as a result, few high-resolution photos of low magnification microwear have been published. The repeatability of the method has also been questioned because low magnification microwear analysis involves the visual inspection of microwear features. We show that the use of high dynamic range imaging improves the visualization of microwear features in photographs and that using these photographs as a counting medium increases the repeatability of the method. We also show that counting from the photographs allows us to accurately classify ungulates as browsers, grazers, or mixed feeders.
10.2307/3514546|Historically, statistical methods have not been employed to full advantage in plant paleoecology. This is in part because some of the most useful methods can be found only in the technical statistical literature. In order to help remedy this situation, we examine four real problems to show how to use four statistical techniques: the chi-square test of independence, simultaneous confidence intervals, the measure of association , and nonlinear regression analysis. For each problem, we describe the statistical method, analyze a set of paleoecological data, and discuss the meaning of the results.
10.2307/3514578|For at least a quarter of a century the steady increase of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere has closely paralleled the growth of world human population with an amazing correlation of .9985. This nearly perfect correlation can hardly be fortuitous. It suggests that the rate of increase of CO<sub>2</sub> is almost wholly dependent on human activities with only very minor contributions from natural causes such as volcanoes, the melting of glaciers, and changes in oceanic circulation. It is generally agreed by ecologists that rates of human activities, such as the consumption of fossil fuels and the destruction of forests, are also increasing. No matter how complex the relationship may be, the fact remains that CO<sub>2</sub> and the population explosion are almost precisely correlated. We suggest that mean values of atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> taken at frequent intervals should usefully supplement, or even replace, inaccurate census compilations for estimating the global growth of human population and some of its consequences: increasing industrialization, burning of fuels, urbanization, changes in land management, etc. It appears that population growth has now exceeded the capacity of the earth to provide a reasonable quality existence for every individual. Our statistical result appears to be new. People looking at population changes should find the study of these data useful.
10.2307/3515242|New <sup>13</sup>C values are presented for tooth enamel of 65 herbivorous fossil mammal specimens from low and middle-elevation localities in Argentina ranging in age from Deseadan (ca. 27 Ma) to Lujanian (potentially as young as ca. 10,000 yrs BP). Prior to the Huayquerian (late Miocene; 9-6.5 Ma), all faunal levels have mean <sup>13</sup>C values of about -11 1 %o, indicating ancient terrestrial ecosystems with predominantly C3 plants. During the late Miocene through Pleistocene (i.e., after ca. 8 Ma), there is a statistically significant carbon isotopic shift so that: (1) taken together, later faunal levels have a combined mean <sup>13</sup>C value of -7.6 %<sub>0</sub> and (2) the data set includes significantly larger ranges of <sup>13</sup>C values (i.e., individual specimens are as positive as ca. +1%<sub>0</sub>). These post-8 Ma data indicate isotopically mixed terrestrial plant communities containing a significant component of C4 grasses. Both the magnitude and timing of this ca. 3.5%<sub>0</sub> mean carbon isotopic shift is consistent with data reported previously from numerous late Miocene localities in the northern hemisphere and selected equatorial regions. Analysis of the <sup>13</sup>C values for high-crowned, presumed grazing mammals from post-8 Ma localities between 21 to 35<sup></sup> S lat. (in Argentina and Bolivia) indicate an isotopic gradient in which mean <sup>13</sup>C values (and hence percentage of C3 plants) are proportional to latitude. The <sup>13</sup>C values presented here indicate that the original spread of grasslands during the middle Tertiary, and the so-called "precocious hypsodonty" of corresponding South American herbivores, occurred in a regime of predominantly C3 grasses. The modern ecological landscape in which grasses (and corresponding grassland biomes) are predominantly C4 in mid-latitudes, is a relatively recent global event that is first recorded in South America during the late Miocene and became relatively widespread thereafter.
27670407|The importance of understanding ecophenotypy in studies of morphological evolution is widely appreciated. Behavioral traits can be environmentally plastic, yet studies of behavioral evolution often proceed without careful consideration of the environmental context. The interaction of Chione elevata with its epibionts and gastropod predators in two shallow marine facies from the Pleistocene of Florida, corresponding to the Bermont and the overlying Fort Thompson Formations, were examined. Fort Thompson samples exhibit roughly an order of magnitude more abundant C. elevata and significantly lower predation intensities than those of the Bermont Formation. Predator size, as measured by the outer borehole diameter, does not differ between facies, but selectivity for larger-sized prey is significant only in the Fort Thompson Formation. These differences in predator behavior may have resulted from ecological differences between facies. Evolutionary studies of behavior that fail to consider the ecological context of each sample will be flawed.
10.2307/3514445|Wrack-line accumulations of beach shells are governed primarily by longshore drift and secondarily by local geomorphic variations along the strand. During low-energy conditions of summer on Sapelo Island beaches, most shells move in the direction of prevalent wave incidence and accumulate in beach re-entrants. Very few shells accumulate on beach protrusions, which are focal points for refracting waves, or on estuary-inlet beaches, where ebb-tidal currents predominate over longshore currents. During high-energy conditions associated with a minor tropical storm, virtually all trends in shell accumulation were reversed. Most shells were removed from the beach; yet more shells remained along relatively straight beach segments than within beach re-entrants, at a point midway between major northward and southward components of longshore drift. These contrasting assemblages thus help demonstrate the importance of comparative taphonomy as (1) a measure of fluctuating coastal conditions-especially the shift from "background" to "episodic" stratinomy-and (2) a prerequisite to paleoecological and paleoenvironmental reconstructions. Most beach shells, storm and nonstorm, were derived originally from the nearshore shelf. Major differences between the structure of nearshore populations and that of beach-shell assemblages, aside from physical stratinomic effects, are attributable to hermit crab utilization of select gastropod valves and to differential rates of productivity among standing crops of mollusks.
25835628|The Joggins Fossil Cliffs site was selected as a UNESCO World Heritage site because of its unparalleled preservation of Pennsylvanian terrestrial organisms in their environmental context. Despite an abundance of research over the past 150 years, significant questions remain regarding the Joggins paleoenvironment, including the degree of marine influence and whether the gymnospermous Cordaites trees may represent the earliest mangroves. Sedimentologic and paleontologic data from interbedded limestone beds indicate open marine conditions in the oldest part of the section, with a waning marine influence up section. Limestone beds, which occur primarily at the base of cycles interbedded with coal and floodplain deposits, are 15100 cm thick and contain ostracodes, bivalves, and echinoderm fragments. Independent lines of evidence to support a diminishing marine influence in fluvial and coastal deposits with time include: (1) the presence of punctate brachiopods, echinoderm fragments, and ostracodes infilled with framboidal pyrite in older limestone beds; (2) antithetic abundances between ostracodes and freshwater bivalves; and (3) an overall coarsening upward in the sequence. These results indicate that Joggins was, at least in the oldest portion of the formation, closer to the open ocean than previously surmised.
3515682|Mollusc shells of several species were deployed on racks and on the seafloor for up to two years on eutrophic and mesotrophic reefs in the Java Sea, a modern epeiric sea. Taphonomic indicators of shell preservation decreased during the study, but some ligament, periostracum, and shell color persisted throughout. Shell fragmentation was negligible except for species with easily chipped margins; weight loss was less than 5% for sturdy shells and up to 15% for shells with chipped margins. Shells deployed in mesh bags on the sediment surface had low encrustation and bioerosion, probably because of partial or complete burial. Areal encrustation on shells in bags was greater at the mesotrophic site than the eutrophic site, but animal encrustation and biovolume ofencrusters was greater at the eutrophic site. Shells elevated on racks were encrusted rapidly at all sites; animal encrustation rates were correlated positively with productivity, and biovolume ofencrusters was greater on nearshore eutrophic reefs than on offshore mesotrophic reefs. Bioerosion rates were variable but also tended to be higher at the more productive site. Natural shells also exhibited a positive, though less strong correlation with productivity suggesting that encrustation intensity and shell bioerosion may serve as relative indicators of productivity in the fossil record.
10.2307/3514771|Subsurface Ordovician rocks in the Black Warrior Basin, Mississippi Embayment, and the eastern part of the Arkoma Basin reflect a different depositional history than coeval rocks exposed in the Nashville Basin, Ozark Dome, and southern Appalachians. The succession consists of four informal lithologic units. From top to bottom these are: 1) "Stones River" limestones, 2) upper dolostone, 3) sponge/algal limestones characterized by the presence of Nuia, and 4) lower dolostone. Of these, the sponge/algal limestone unit is the most atypical. It has a conspicuous biotic assemblage which can be recognized petrographically in well cuttings. The diagnostic fossil allochems are: sponges, sponge spicules, Nuia, Girvanella, and Sphaerocodium. Conodonts from the sponge/algal limestones are probably entirely Early Ordovician (Canadian) and include cold- and deep-water species found in the North Atlantic Province, whereas those in the overlying dolostones represent exclusively warmwater, shelf environments. The conodonts in the Black Warrior Basin suggest that an unconformity between Lower and Middle Ordovician carbonates (Knox unconformity) does not exist in much of that region. The sponge/algal limestones represent a different facies than their coeval shelf rocks in the interior of the continent. The limestone contains a distinctive biotic assemblage recognized in Lower Ordovician rocks in Newfoundland, in the Arbuckle and Wichita mountains of Oklahoma, in West Texas, and in the Great Basin of Nevada and Utah. During Early Ordovician time these sponge/algal assemblages lived in open, normal marine, slightly deeper water on shelves or ramps on the outer parts of the continent, in some places fronting deep basinal environments. In its edge-of-continent position it resembles the distribution of the olenid trilobite faunas and the Toquima trilobite realm. However, unlike those occurrences, the sponge/ algal facies has not been fully documented on other continents although there is increasing evidence that it is present.
3515536|Evidence for biotic interaction is not obtainable easily in the fossil record. Epizoans cemented to the skeletons of host organisms provide an opportunity to study possible host-epizoan interactions and the ecological structure of hard substratum communities. One such possibility is sponges and their associated encrusters, but few such occurrences have been documented from the fossil record. Early Ordovician limestones of the San Juan Formation in the Argentine Precordillera bear an important sponge fauna consisting mainly of demosponges. This Early Llanvirn assemblage has the highest diversity, and most sponges were subjected to epizoan encrustations. A total of nineteen species included in eleven genera of sponges were examined to record epizoans encrustations. Type and relative abundance of epizoans were compiled for each sponge species. Five kinds of epizoans were recorded: bryozoans, stemmed echinoderms, brachiopods, other sponges, and scars and borings of undetermined organisms. Crinoids and blastozoans are widespread common epizoans on sponges. Small brachiopods are attached to sponges showing no location preference; rarely, juvenile sponges appear on conspecific adults. Sinuous scars and worm-like organisms are found in almost all the sponges. Deep borings, like those found in Devonian or younger sponges, are absent. The analysis of epizoan distribution on each sponge species shows a fairly homogeneous distribution of echinoderms on sponges but host specificity of bryozoans. Here, surface texture seems to have been a significant controlling factor. Almost all the trepostome bryozoa adhere to Rhopalocoelia tenuis Carrera. This taxon is a cylindrical sponge whose smooth surface texture contrasts sharply with the rough and open textured spiculation observed among other species in the fauna. This feature seems to have been a key factor for the mutual relationship. Rhopalocoelia tenuis shows a reaction to epizoans, modifying the shape of growth and changing the direction of the spicular structure in the vicinity of the epibiont, providing evidence that encrustation occurred while the sponge was alive. Diversity, composition and encrusting strategies of the Argentine epizoan community reflect the early evolutionary stage of this biotic relationships in the Early Paleozoic. This contrasts with the more varied and diversified relationships among organisms that were able to encrust, bore, and chemically perforate hard parts after the Devonian. The Early to Middle Ordovician was a time of rapid evolutionary diversification among hard substrate communities. The Argentinean epizoan community appears to be transitional between the first hard substrate encrusters (Late Cambrian), which were eocrinoid dominated and were not accompanied by macroborers or bryozoans, and the later Paleozoic communities, in which bryozoans were the most prolific utilizers of attachment and macroborers were common.
10.2307/3514527|In view of the existence of spectacular reefs of the Late Devonian in Australia and Canada and the massive barrier complex of the Late Permian in West Texas one might expect something similar in the Carboniferous. The Carboniferous, however, was a time of crisis for reef-building (Newell, 1972), and the reef mounds one encounters are all relatively small. As applied to the Carboniferous, the term reef (or reef mound) has been used to refer both to structures that were ecological reefs (i. e., have a recognizable organic framework), as well as ones that lacked a recognizable organic framework. Additionally, questions persist as to whether some of the algal banks really have a framework, or are simply the accumulation of algal and other skeletal debris (sediment buildups). Mound-like structures of the Lower Carboniferous (Mississippian) have been and remain controversial not only concerning the presence or absence of a framework but also regarding what the responsible organism might be if there was a framework. In the Upper Carboniferous (Pennsylvanian), important stabilizing, building, trapping, and binding organisms include stromatolites (blue-green algae/cyanobacteria); solenoporaceans; ancestral corallines and possibly encrusting squamariaceans; Ivanovia, Anchicodium, and Eugonophyllum (codiaceans); algal/ foraminiferid associations; Chaetetes, Komia, Parallelopora, and Stereodictyon (sponges); Palaeoaplysina and Tubiphytes (hydrozoans?); and encrusting, arborescent, and fenestrate bryozoans. All of these taxa were important in building Upper Carboniferous Pennsylvanian reef mounds, but when comparing the estimated skeletal biovolumes contributed to the reef mounds by each taxon during separate intervals of Carboniferous time (Figure 1), an interesting pattern emerges. Lower Carboniferous (Mississippian) mud mounds, if organically controlled, result from microbial activity (Lees and Miller, 1985), and Westphalian A (Morrowan/Upper Bashkirian) reef mounds are stromatolitic boundstone with associated algae. Westphalian B, C, and D [(Atokan and Desmoinesian) Moscovian] reef mounds are chaetetid and Komia boundstones, often built on algalforaminiferid-encrusted cobbles. Red and green algae dominate the reef mounds of the Stephanian (Missourian and Virgilian/ Gzelian and Orenburgian), with Palaeoaplysina and Tubiphytes becoming important during Stephanian C (Late Virgilian). The temporal pattern of the relative skeletal biovolume of the primary contributors in Carboniferous reef mounds generally corresponds to the relative skeletal biovolume of the same primary contributors in reefs and reef mounds formed during the pre-Carboniferous.
3515778|The Lower Permian (Wolfcampian) Hueco Formation in the Dona Ana Mountains of south-central New Mexico contains a 30-m-thick, mixed siliciclastic-carbonate succession exposed for up to 1 km perpendicular to regional paleoslope. The succession was deposited in shallow-marine, wave- and tide-dominated estuarine, and fluvial environments, and is arranged into three fourth-order sequences. The lower two sequence boundaries incise marine fossiliferous packstone and offshore to lower-shoreface mudstone-siltstone and are overlain by fluvial sediment comprising the lowstand systems tract. Fluvial-channel sedimentation above the lower two sequence boundaries changed from vertical to lateral accretion in response to decreasing gradient in the incised valley. The transgressive systems tract of the lower two sequences begins with a tidal ravinement surface, which is mantled locally by a pebble-cobble lag of rip-up clasts and fossils. The tidal ravinement surface cuts channels up to 4 m deep, locally removing transgressive-estuarine and some lowstand-fluvial sediment. Symmetrically rippled sandstone-siltstone deposited near the mouth of the estuary overlies the tidal ravinement surface and is overlain and locally truncated by a wave ravinement surface. In sequence 2, the highstand systems tract consists of a progradational package of heterolithic mudstone-siltstone-sandstone and bivalve packstone deposited in the central basin of the estuary; and sandstone with wood and bivalves, and carbonaceous mudstone and sandstone deposited in bayhead deltas and marshes. Sequence boundary 3 is characterized by a restricted-marine ostracode packstone sharply overlying a marsh mudstone with a vertic Calcisol and burrows of the Glossifungites Ichnofacies, and was produced on an interfluve. Sequence 3 is not present in the northern exposures, having been removed by erosion associated with sequence boundary 4. The temporal scale (10<sup>5yrs</sup>) of the fourth-order sequences implies a glacial-eustatic origin. Interbeds of shallow-marine fossiliferous packstone and mudstone-siltstone in the lower part of the succession resemble fifth-order sequences in the Midcontinent, but also may represent parasequences or autocycles.
10.2307/3514495|Pebble-size and larger mobile rocks in aquatic environments may be colonized by a variety of sessile benthic organisms. These diverse encrusting, boring, and nestling communities have a long fossil record that can be used to test many paleoecological and evolutionary hypotheses. The frequent rolling or overturning of rocks during the residence time of their colonizing fauna represents a distinct physical disturbance that can be observed in the fossil record. This disturbance may vary in intensity; some substrata are overturned continually, while others are rarely moved at all. Increased disturbance is generally correlated with increased taxonomic diversity, unless the substrate is overturned so frequently that few colonizers are retained. Intermediate levels of disturbance enhance the diversity of mobile rock faunas by limiting the dominance of late successional taxa. The diversity gradient produced in a variable disturbance regime is often a reflection of the ecological succession on the rocks. Diversity is also dependent upon available niche space. A dramatic increase in rock-boring during the Mesozoic produced a variety of holes in mobile rocks, expanding the niche space available to encrusting and other coelobitic organisms. Thus the preserved faunas associated with Mesozoic and Cenozoic mobile rocks are, on the average, far more diverse than their Paleozoic counterparts. Organisms persisting on mobile rocks have developed three strategies in response to the physical disturbance: 1) some encrusters, notably late successional bryozoans, produce a mature colony shape that stabilizes the mobile substrate and thus reduces the potential for disturbance; 2) encrusters on mobile rocks in a sand or gravel matrix tend to develop morphologies that resist physical abrasion; and, 3) if suitable holes are present in the rock, encrusters may avoid the hazardous surface and live as cavity-dwellers (coelobites).
27670433|The graphoglyptid trace fossil Paleodictyon, characterized by a stratiform hexagonal net, is a diagnostic member of the deep-water Nereites ichnofacies and usually found in deep-sea flysch successions. Scattered records of the trace fossil from shallower, lower-shelf-to-upper-slope environments, particularly since the mid-Mesozoic, have been substantially augmented by new data from Upper Triassic and Jurassic sedimentary basins of Iran. Paleodictyon has been found on the soles of mid-to-lower-shelf event beds produced by storm-induced currents and on the soles of prodelta turbidite deposits in the Upper Triassic Nayband Formation of east-central Iran, the lower Middle Jurassic Shemshak Formation of north-central Iran, the Middle Jurassic Kashafrud Formation of the Koppeh Dagh, and the Middle Jurassic Dalichai Formation of the Binalud Mountains. It appears that the bathymetric range of Paleodictyon throughout the Phanerozoic was considerably wider than generally assumed. The observed dominance of the trace fossil in deep-water flysch successions we interpret as being at least partially due to preservational effects. The conservation of the networks requires limited erosion, immediate casting and sealing of the exhumed negative epireliefs by sand, and limited subsequent bioturbation at deeper tiers. This restricts the trace fossil to event beds, either deep-sea turbidites or shallow-water storm beds in environments characterized by high-sedimentation rates. For bathymetric interpretations of paleoenvironments, whole ichnoassemblages should be used rather than single ichnotaxa to avoid erroneous conclusions.
10.2307/3514657|Turritelline gastropods comprise one of the most important macrofossil groups (volumetrically, taxonomically, and biostratigraphically) of the Cenozoic and Late Mesozoic, and are moderately diverse and abundant in Recent seas. Yet little is known about their biology. Such information as does exist has been obtained from very few living species, the great majority from Turritella communis Risso, 1826 from the northeastern Atlantic. Consideration of all available data on living turritellines suggests that the ecology of all species does not agree in all respects with that of T. communis, and that the ecology of the group is much more heterogeneous than previously recognized. Recent species live most often at depths between 10 and 100 m, but range between the intertidal and 1500 m. They appear to prefer temperatures of 15-20C, but range between 2 and 24C. Although most species may be mostly sedentary and infaunal or semi-infaunal in relatively soft substrate, many are also epifaunal on coarser or harder substrates and may, at least occasionally, be highly mobile. While most of the species for which data are available appear to be mainly ciliary suspension-feeders, some or all may be deposit-feeders or grazers at least part of the time. The geographic and seasonal patterns of living turritelline species suggest that coastal upwelling, by reducing shallow-water temperatures and increasing phytoplankton abundance, may be an important factor affecting their distribution and abundance. More data are needed to confirm or refute this hypothesis. This revised and expanded concept of turritelline ecology makes the use of living turritellines as representatives of fossil turritellines in taphonomic and paleoenvironmental studies problematical. A broader approach to turritelline paleoecology is needed, one that will pursue studies of living species along with independent investigations of particular fossil forms. Results from such detailed studies promise to provide a higher degree of resolution in evolutionary studies of this important group.
27670334|The PermianTriassic transition was an important time for many marine groups, including echinoderms. However, the fossil record of ophiuroids through this interval is poorly understood. Recent discoveries in Lower Triassic rocks from northern Italy and western US suggest that ophiuroids were more common during this time than previously has been appreciated. Evidence from resting traces (Asteriacites lumbricalis) indicates that Early Triassic ophiuroids lived on fine-grained siliciclastic sediments in oxygenated, shallow-marine environments within storm wave base. No resting traces have been recorded from deeper and/or oxygen-restricted settings. However, following death and decay, ophiuroid skeletal elements sometimes were transported into offshore, low-oxygen environments. All known occurrences of Early Triassic ophiuroids fall within the paleotropics, but this is attributed to sampling bias. Articulated body fossils and their trace fossils are most common in latest Lower Triassic (Olenekian) rocks, but disarticulated ossicles occur throughout the Induan and Olenekian. At times and places, ophiuroids were the dominant marine benthos, carpeting the substrate in prodigious numbers. However, at other times, they also comprised minor components of diverse benthic assemblages, living alongside crinoids (Holocrinus), bryozoans, bivalves, gastropods, and brachiopods. Morphological comparison with extant ophiuroids suggests that all known Early Triassic taxa were small surface-dwellers.
10.2307/3515043|The Great Estuarine Group (late Bajocian-Bathonian, Middle Jurassic, Scotland) yields benthic molluscan faunas whose distribution was believed to be controlled largely by salinity; different genera characterize a spectrum of mainly brackish-water environments. Benthic molluscan assemblages are also affected by substrate. A test of the salinity-control hypothesis is to compare the distribution of other groups, with differing environmental constraints, by means of bed-by-bed collecting. We have studied the 26m thick type section of the Kildonnan Member of the Lealt Shale Formation, and present new data on bivalves, gastropods, ostracods, conchostracans, dinoflagellate cysts, acritarchs and Botryococcus. Assemblages change consistently over centimetres or millimetres as regards inferred salinity tolerance; the few examples of 'mixed' faunas can be explained by special circumstances. Dinoflagellate cysts occur exclusively in beds also yielding marine-brackish bivalves. Botryococcus percentages correlate with low-salinity molluscs and ostracods, and with conchostracans. The bivalve Praemytilus and some gastropods were euryhaline. Large salinity changes in this shallow-lagoonal setting could take place in years or less, but at intervening times the environment may have been stable, apart from seasonal variations recorded in bivalve shell structures, for decades or centuries. Stable isotope data support these conclusions, particularly for Praemytilus. Our results increase confidence in the use of the groups investigated as paleosalinity indicators, and provide data for studies on the changing nature of brackish-water communities over time.
27670470|A Laojieella specimen of the Lower Cambrian Chengjiang Lagersttte in Yunnan Province, southern China, contains a tubular organism inside its digestive tract. The gut content appears to resemble Archotuba conoidalis, a sessile animal generally regarded as being closely related to cnidarians. This example demonstrates that Laojieella might be a scavenger. Reasons for the extreme paucity of recognizable remains in gut contents are discussed. Such fossils offer new insights into the reconstruction of the complex food web of the benthic community of the Chengjiang fauna.
10.2307/3514658|Study of collections of "algal biscuits" from the Lower Permian (Wolfcamp) Herington/Krider Limestones of southern Kansas/ northern Oklahoma indicates that these relatively large accretionary structures were formed on shallow subtidal grassy seabottoms, within a lagoonal depositional setting. The biscuits are composed of concentric growth laminations of algae and encrusting foraminifers, with various entrapped epizoans. At different times during biscuit growth, the biscuits themselves fell prey to burrowing barnacles and boring annelid worms. That results in modification of originally concentric growth laminae, into distinctive organism-modified, digitate algal-foraminiferal colonies.
10.2307/3514692|Skeletal sands on and around a fringing reef at Lizard Island, Great Barrier Reef, Australia, contain a small but recognizable component of skeletal ossicles of comatulid crinoids (feather stars), which inhabit the reef in great abundance and diversity. The distribution, abundance, and preservational condition of crinoidal ossicles were investigated as an analogue for biostratinomic processes in ancient crinoid environments. In the study area, crinoidal material occurs as completely disarticulated ossicles representing all elements of the comatulid skeleton (calyx, brachials, pinnulars, and cirrals). The crinoid fraction is greatest at the base of the forereef escarpment (3-5% by grain count), declining rapidly along slopes below the escarpment (~1%), in the backreef (<1%), and on the reef top (~2%). Maximum accumulation of crinoidal debris at the base of the escarpment (13 m water depth) occurs directly below the area of maximum abundance and diversity (>40 spp.) of living crinoids. Fish predation is a major source of crinoid mortality, which may partly account for the high concentration of crinoidal debris at the base of the reef, where it would most likely fall after being dropped by fish. The scarcity of calyxes in the sediment may also be a result of their selective removal by predators. Lacking rapid burial, crinoidal arms, pinnules, and cirri become virtually completely disarticulated within days; only the calyx remains articulated for longer periods. The result is a time-averaged accumulation that contains abraded and broken ossicles as well as fresh material. SEM photographs and thin sections of abraded ossicles show no evidence of infilling of the stereomic pores ("prefossilization"). Post-mortem movement of crinoidal material is evidently downslope rather than laterally away from the reef, despite regular along-reef tidal currents approaching 50 cm/sec or greater. No evidence for buoyant transport of crinoid ossicles was found, and only the finer skeletal elements were winnowed. Reduced concentration of crinoidal material along offreef slopes reflects the lower densities of living crinoids there. The concentration of crinoidal debris is thus directly related to proximity to the living site.
20172968|Microfacies analysis and point counts of thin sections from 608 hand samples were used to track changes in the abundance and diversity of fossil grains through the extended recovery interval following end-Permian mass extinction on the Great Bank of Guizhou (GBG)--an isolated Late Permian to Late Triassic carbonate platform in south China. Exposure of a two-dimensional cross-section of the platform permits the comparison of faunal patterns along an environmental gradient from shallow to deep water. The diverse Late Permian biota was dominated by calcareous sponges, crinoids, articulate brachiopods, foraminifera, and calcareous algae. In contrast, Early Triassic communities were dominated by mollusks, with increasing abundance of crinoids beginning in the Spathian. Increase in the diversity and abundance of fossils on the GBG was confined to a brief interval near the Spathian-Anisian boundary and concentrated along the platform margin. Later Middle Triassic diversification, the return of calcareous algae and calcareous sponges, and the appearance of scleractinian corals did not substantially alter the mollusk-crinoid-Tubiphytes assemblage before the end of the Middle Triassic. The low abundance of skeletal grains in Lower Triassic strata implies: (1) similarities in the relative contributions of micrite, microbialites, and oolites to Neoproterozoic carbonates result, at least in part, from the temporary removal of skeletal sinks for calcium carbonate; and (2) animals with hard skeletons remained at low abundance from the time of the end-Permian extinction through much of the Early Triassic.
3515810|Taphonomic, paleobiological, and paleoecological analyses have been conducted on a rich bone accumulation on Poggio Rosso in the Upper Valdarno basin (Tuscany, central Italy). Fossil mammalian remains from the Upper Valdarno, including the type specimens of important European Villafranchian taxa, have been collected from the Renaissance through the present, mostly with little concern for stratigraphy. Because the specimens, elements, skeletal parts, and even entire skeletons generally were found in isolation, a great deal of information on taxonomic co-existence, population dynamics, proportions of limb segments, and other metrics, was precluded. The discovery of the latest Pliocene Poggio Rosso site, where bones are preserved in a sandy floodplain bed, has provided opportunity to rectify these omissions. The bone accumulation largely consists of limb bones (mostly articulated) and skulls, many of which are associated with mandibles. Axial skeletal elements are strongly underrepresented. Several bones were bimodally oriented. The specimens are slightly weathered, and have common bite and gnaw marks. Some coprolites also occur. Because of its complex genesis, Poggio Rosso does not match conventional taphonomic categories. The bimodal arrangement of the elements and sedimentologic evidence indicate that an unconfined flood flow contributed to the assemblage's final arrangement. The role of carnivores, however, was far more substantial. The occurrence of skulls, limb bones, bite and gnaw marks, and coprolites and the comparative rarity of axial skeletal parts, attest to the presence and activity of carnivores-hyenas in particular, represented in the Upper Valdarno by Pachycrocuta brevirostris. Poggio Rosso thus is a sort of den with characteristics of a kill site. The proportionally high amount of carnivore remains, especially skulls, intimates that the hyaenids might have had cubs at the time. General wastage and incompletely consumed carcasses indicate surplus killing as well as actively transported prey elements; all of which, along with specific paleobiological speculations, suggest that the bone accumulation was formed by a cooperative group of hyenas preying on debilitated game populations in a moment of great environmental stress (possibly a period of drought). Sedimentological and palynological analyses confirm arid environmental conditions and reveal that the bones accumulated over a short time. Moreover, these same data indicate that the changes in the floodplain occurred during a major climatic fluctuation, with an increasingly arid phase that ended close to the fossil-bearing layer, which was then followed by wetter conditions.
40606443|Landmark-and semilandmark-based geometric morphometrics were used to explore morphological variation in the occlusal surface and tinea sinuosa (enamel-dentine junction) of first lower molars (m1s) of Ogmodontomys sawrockensis and O. poaphagus from the Meade Basin in southwestern Kansas. Morphological differences between the two species were determined in an effort to explore interspecific variation and to test the power of landmark geometry of dental variation for species discrimination. Significant differences were found between O. sawrockensis and O. poaphagus in both occlusal surface and the tinea sinuosa patterns. Multivariate tests demonstrate that the most significant morphological changes occurred at the presumed O. sawrockensis-O.poaphagus speciation event. An intraspecific multivariate analysis of O.poaphagus m1s, however, also identified directional evolutionary tendencies in shape of both the occlusal surface and tinea sinuosa.
10.2307/3514707|Tuberculate foraminifers dominate the calcareous microfauna of the early Osagean Humboldt Oolite in north-central Iowa. This assemblage, previously unknown east of the Transcontinental Arch, occurs commonly in western North America, thus facilitating foraminiferal correlations between that area and the Midcontinent. Analysis of early Osagean microfossil occurrences within the Cordillera permits definition of an informal "Zone of Tuberculate Foraminifers" (ZTF) composed, in ascending order, of the "subzones" (1) Tuberendothyra tuberculata, (2) Spinoendothyra spp., (3) Inflatoendothyra spp., and (4) Eoforschia moelleri group-Paradainella spp. Comparison of the Humboldt microfauna to this succession indicates that an hiatus probably separates the oolite from the underlying Gilmore City Limestone, which contains a pre-ZTF assemblage. This break, which lies at the Kinderhookian-Osagean boundary, can be recognized widely in the western-shelf seaway where ZTF assemblages generally have been misinterpreted as late rather than early Osagean. Faunal gaps higher in the ZTF suggest that shelf sedimentation at some localities in the Cordillera may have been interrupted again later in the early Osagean. In Eurasia, the Humboldt assemblage best correlates to the late Tournaisian Kizel horizon and equivalent beds of the Russian Platform, Urals, and Ukraine. Newly named taxa include the alga Cylindrofolia glenisteri and the problematic Asphaltina? macadami.
27670435|Seasonally sampled cores of burrowed sediment containing chironomid larvae were collected from Cooking Lake, Alberta, and analyzed to (1) assess and establish the typical burrowing behavior and burrow architecture of chironomid larvae; (2) record micrometer-scale geochemical profiles of O2, H2S, and pH in the uppermost sedimentary layers throughout a seasonal cycle; and (3) link changing geochemical conditions to changing burrowing behaviors. We observed that the larvae lived in soft, water-saturated sediment, maintained by open burrows accreted by the animal's mucous. Chironomid-larvae burrows were small and Y-shaped (e.g., polykladichnus-like) or Y-shaped with basal branches (Thalassinoides-like) and were 20 cm deep. The larvae moved up and down from the oxygenated zone ("sounding" behavior) to exploit food in suboxic and anoxic sediment. Geochemical analyses showed that H2S was present in the pore waters to within 1.5 mm of the sediment-water interface during the summer, when lake-bottom algae and cyanobacteria generated sufficient O2 to drive the oxic-anoxic redoxcline into the sediment. In the winter, the H2S front extended upward into the water column owing to the cessation of algal and cyanobacterial activity. The prevalence of H2S results from a combination of high-dissolved-sulfate concentrations in the lake and the abundance of microbial biomass that fuels an active subsurface population of sulfate-reducing bacteria. Interestingly, burrowing behavior was not linked to seasonal changes in the sediment chemistry. This is in part due to the ability of chironomid larvae to exploit oxygen islands in the sediment: in the winter, the chironomid larvae harvest their oxygen from the uppermost photosynthetic layer in otherwise O2-impoverished sediments.
25835645|This study is the first assessment of mollusk fossil assemblages relative to the compositional fidelity of modern mollusk living and death assemblages. It also shows that the sedimentary record can provide information on the original, non-human-impacted, freshwater malacofauna biodiversity, based on Late Pleistocene shells. The fossil mollusk assemblage from the Touro Passo Formation (PleistoceneHolocene) was compared to living and death assemblages of the Touro Passo River, southern Brazil, revealing little resemblance between fossil and live-dead species composition. Although the living and death assemblages agree closely in richness, species composition, and species relative abundances (both proportional and rank), the fossil assemblage differs significantly from both modern assemblages in most of these measures. The fossil assemblage is dominated by the native endemic corbiculid bivalve Cyanocyclas limosa and the gastropod Heleobia aff. bertoniana. These are absent in the living assemblages, and both living and death assemblages are dominated by the alien Asiatic corbiculid C. fluminea, which is absent in the fossil assemblage. The fossil assemblage also contains, overall, a higher proportional abundance of relatively thick-shelled species, suggesting a genuine bias against the thinner- and smaller-shelled species. Our results suggest that contemporary environmental changes, such as the introduction of some alien freshwater mollusk species, together with post-burial taphonomic processes, are the main factors leading to the poor fidelity of the fossil assemblage studied. Hence, the taxonomic composition of the Late Pleistocene mollusks from the Touro Passo Formation probably would show greater similarity to present-day assemblages wherever the mollusk biodiversity is not disturbed by human activities.
10.2307/3515604|The Paleocene/Eocene boundary (c. 55.2 ma) represents transient greenhouse warming of <220 ky duration that had a critical impact upon North American mammals but an apparently limited impact upon subtropical plants. The effect of enhanced warming on biomes already tolerant of paratropical I tropical climate conditions is essentially unknown at the Paleocene/Eocene boundary because most research has centered on high latitude changes in plant turnover. Fossil pollen and spores from the US Gulf Coast allow an assessment of the impact that Paleocene / Eocene climate events had on a Paleo-paratropical/tropical vegetation type. Pollen data from two marginal marine sections either side of the boundary in Alabama, USA, demonstrate secular but subdued changes in composition that are manifest primarily as a restructuring of the vegetation type. Taxa found in the Paleocene remain dominant in the early Eocene (89% of taxonomic groups), and both extinction and immigration rates are moderate. Immigrants probably came from at least two different continents, Europe and South America, which implies a highly individualistic response of plant species from different Paleocene biomes to greenhouse warming. Diversity changes are not pronounced across the boundary, but within-sample diversity changes reflect a more heterogeneous, or possibly more successional, early Eocene vegetation type than the late Paleocene. This does not lead to greater between-sample diversity because the Paleocene palynofloras are moderately more diverse, if less heterogeneous at the within-sample level. Results imply that on time-scales of 10<sup>5years</sup>, Paleocene / Eocene warming is correlative with only minor compositional and diversity changes in paratropical vegetation types.
25835635|Shells of intertidal bivalve mollusks contain sub-seasonally to inter-annually resolved records of temperature and salinity variations in coastal settings. Such data are essential to understand changing land-sea interactions through time, specifically atmospheric (precipitation rate, glacial meltwater, river discharge) and oceanographic circulation patterns; however, independent temperature and salinity proxies are currently not available. We established a model for reconstructing daily water temperatures with an average standard error of 1.3 C based on variations in the width of lunar daily growth increments of Saxidomus gigantea from southwestern Alaska, United States. Temperature explains 70% of the variability in shell growth. When used in conjunction with stable oxygen isotope data, this approach can also be used to identify changes in past seawater salinity. This study provides a better understanding of the hydrological changes related to the Alaska Coastal Current (ACC). In combination with O <sub>shell</sub> values, increment-derived temperatures were used to estimate salinity changes with an average error of 1.4  1.1 PSU. Our model was calibrated and tested with modern shells and then applied to archaeological specimens. As derived from the model, the time interval of 9881447 cal yr BP was characterized by 12 C colder and much drier (25 PSU) summers. During that time, the ACC was likely flowing much more slowly than at present. In contrast, between 5991014 cal yr BP, the Aleutian low may have been stronger, which resulted in a 3 C temperature decrease during summers and 12 PSU fresher conditions than today; the ACC was probably flowing more quickly at that time. The shell growthtemperature model can be used to estimate seasonal to interannual salinity and temperature changes in freshwater-influenced environments through time.
3515814|Bioerosion was a common process affecting corals and stromatoporoids in reef and off-reef facies on the carbonate ramp that spanned the Ordovician-Silurian boundary on Anticosti Island. The probable worm boring Trypanites was the dominant macroboring, penetrating more than 40% of 2,500 massive tabulate corals and stromatoporoids examined, occasionally in dense concentrations. The frequency of macroboring was influenced by conditions at the facies level reflected by changes in grain size, water depth, storm reworking of sediments, and the nature of the skeletal mass bored. These factors regulated exposure time of the host-substrate surface to the watermass and thus influenced bioerosion. Bored specimens are most common in muddy off-reef facies, moderate in sandy off-reef facies, and less common in reefs. In off-reef facies, storm-enhanced deposition and reworking of sediments were most important in the burial of eligible host substrates. In reefs, the high competition for space by encrusting epizoans, combined with sedimentation, limited macroborers that preferred to excavate dead skeletal substrates. Skeletal density was the most important property of the host substrate in controlling boring frequency. Macroborers favored a dense host skeleton likely for its enhanced mechanical strength and adaptability for unlined borings, despite requiring greater energy for excavation. High-relief host skeletons were bored more frequently than tabular forms, since their greater capacity to shed sediment would have resulted in more prolonged exposure above the seafloor. The probable bivalve boring Petroxestes pera is rare. Temporal changes in boring frequency appear to reflect local shifts in facies and relative sea level. Mass-extinction events near the O/S boundary, which eliminated some host corals and stromatoporoids, had no apparent effect on boring frequency.
10.2307/3514632| The phenomenon of non-random or selective survival across major extinction boundaries in the geologic past is poorly understood but increasingly recognized as a critical area for future research. A current hypothesis, developed from a comparison of extinction patterns among Late Cretaceous molluscs, is that biological adaptations of organisms effectual during normal times of earth history are ineffectual during times of mass extinction. Microsampling of laminated biosiliceous marine sediments from the high-latitutde Alpha Ridge (~86 N lat.) provides evidence of an actively exploited biological adaptation by Late Cretaceous planktonic diatoms. Distinctive laminae reveal a life-history strategy comprised of alternating planktonic and non-planktonic stages. Contrary to the hypothesis that mass extinctions are indifferent to biological adaptations, these data indicate a link between selection for traits in normal paleoenvironmental settings and differential survival during an unexpected episode of paleoenvironmental deterioration during a mass extinction. Planktonic diatoms, adapted locally to surviving periods of stress by leaving the plankton environment, may have differentially survived a global crisis at the end of the Cretaceous as a consequence of a life-history trait. The interaction of this proximate biological adaptation and the postulated end-Cretaceous extinction mechanisms may have played a major role in the unexpectedly high survival of planktonic diatoms, documenting a clear example of causal dependency between a biologic character selected for during times of normal or background extinction and macroevolutionary survivorship during times of crisis. 
3515873|New evidence of fossil macroborings in the Lower Ordovician (Ibexian) of western Utah demonstrates that the macroboring behavioral strategy was firmly established in the earliest stages of the great Ordovician diversification of the marine biosphere. In Utah, borings were excavated in hardgrounds that had developed on sponge-algal mounds and flat-pebble conglomerates in the Fillmore Formation (Ibexian). The most complete specimens possess a neck up to 1 cm in length that opens into a teardrop-shaped chamber with a maximum diameter of 1 cm. The chamber terminates at a depth of 3-4 cm below the hardground surface. These borings belong to the ichnogenus Gastrochaenolites. The organisms responsible for creating the borings are unknown. Sedimentologically, the effect of boring on hardgrounds was to break them into pebble- and cobble-sized clasts. The endolithic lifestyle represented by the borings may have evolved in response to ecologic pressures such as predation or competition for food resources. The macroborings from the Fillmore Formation represent an innovative strategy that may have resulted in the later development of new body plans and the early establishment of endolithic macroinvertebrates.
27670531|Taphonomic analysis of Lenticulina from the Upper Jurassic foraminiferal assemblages of midshelf environments was carried out in a marl-limestone rhythmite of the Prebetic. Size, fragmentation-corrasion, microboring, encrustations, recrystallization, mineralization, sedimentary infillings, and cementation of tests were analyzed by thin section. Encrustations, microborings, and dominance of micritic infillings in the tests are indicative of long exposure on the sea bottom related to low-sedimentation rates. In contrast, the frequency of sparitic cements and reelaborated tests is indicative of higher-sedimentation rates, which are also increased by the input of sediment winnowed from shallower areas. The stratigraphic distribution of these taphonomic features reveals trends in sedimentation rates and sediment input that may be interpreted according to the sequence stratigraphy proposals for the Prebetic. During transgression, increasing relative distance from shore produces a lower-sedimentation rate and prolonged exposure of the fossil remains. This results in increased amounts of microborings, encrustations, and micritic infillings, while fragmentation and the proportion of the reelaborated tests of Lenticulina decrease. Rapid burial is related to increasing sediment input and sedimentation rates and can be associated with aggradation and progradation during the development of a highstand systems tract and a shelf margin wedge. A higher-sedimentation rate explains the scarcity of encrustations and microborings and the abundance of sparitic cements. A higher allochthony of Lenticulina is indicated by the locally high values of fragmentation and reelaborated tests. This taphonomic analysis is useful in monotonous epicontinental lithofacies as marl-limestone rhythmites can reveal features indicative of depositional developments that can be fitted to sequence stratigraphic models.
10.2307/3514447|The taphonomy of the Cincinnatian brachiopod Platystrophia ponderosa reveals a complex history of draft filling and biologic occupation of the shell, commonly followed by disarticulation and preferential destruction of the thinner brachial valve by abrasion and breakage. Polished sections of 50 shells exhibit a repeated filling sequence beginning with mixed and laminated skeletal debris and micrite, deposited from suspension in gaped shells. Pelletai concentrations, produced in situ by a shell-inhabiting organism, truncate the underlying fill. Shell fillings imply prolonged post-mortem exposure of gaped, articulated shells, contrary to arguments that brachiopod shells do not gape following death and rapidly disarticulate. In bulk samples of disarticulated valves, the pedicle:brachial valve ratio increases with abrasion and breakage. This correlation, combined with the greater thickness of the pedicle valve and the lack of brachial valve-dominated assemblages, suggests that skewed valve ratios in Platystrophia ponderosa result from preferential destruction of the thinner brachial valve, rather than from selective transportation of one valve, as observed for pelecypods. Differences in shell preservation are controlled by the duration of post-mortem exposure, not by water energy alone.
10.2307/3515008|Declining importance of trilobites was a key feature of Ordovician community evolution. Previous work has shown that replacement of trilobite-dominated paleocommunities by mollusc- and brachiopod-rich paleo-communities was diachronous, and began in nearshore environments. However, the processes responsible for these changes remain unclear. New data from northern North America indicate that trilobite species diversity in nearshore settings maintained a constant, low level between the Late Cambrian (Marjuman) and Middle Ordovician (Whiterockian). As the total number of species of other groups, especially molluscs, increased in nearshore environments, the relative importance of trilobites in these paleocommunities declined through a process of dilution, rather than actual displacement. The apparent offshore retreat of trilobite-dominated paleocommunities is also at least partly a reflection of this dilution process: through the Cambrian and Ordovician, trilobite assemblages tended to be most speciose in offshore environments, so that the apparent rate of dilution proceeded more slowly than in the nearshore. Thus, trilobite-dominated paleocommunities maintained their integrity longer in the offshore, and this produced an overall pattern of diachronous replacement. Similarly, progressive offshore replacements of other community types in younger strata may also be dilution phenomena related to species diversity gradients.
27670442|In this study we report on the occurrence and potential significance of Atlantic sturgeon (Acipenser oxyrhynchus) feeding traces observed in the Bay of Fundy in great abundance on the intertidal mud flats of Mary's Point, New Brunswick, Canada. The traces comprise a crescent-shaped impression and a plug-shaped excavation and are considered to be a modern analogue for the trace fossil Piscichnus. Local areas exhibit relatively great numbers of the feeding structure: the sediment in these zones contains bivalves (primarily Macoma balthica), worms (generally nereid polychaetes), and amphipods (Corophium volutator). Analysis of the feeding-trace distribution and orientation shows that activity is greatest within 500 m of mean high water and coincides with the highest population densities of amphipods (up to 30,000 individuals per m2). Where sturgeon feeding is most intense, voluminous quantities of clay and silt are redistributed. Within the study area, as much as 1,220 m3 of intertidal sediment is resuspended during the 6 summer weeks that mark peak sturgeon activity. The reworked sediment contributes to the extensive soupy substrate, which accumulates from suspension deposition of silts and minor amounts of clay during slack tide. Subsequent to their excavation, feeding depressions trap sediment. Thus, feeding by the Atlantic sturgeon locally represents an important erosional-depositional agent in the intertidal mud flat zone within Mary's Point.
27670482|Kinneyia structures are among the most typical wrinkle structures observed on ancient siliciclastic sediment surfaces since the Archean. Recently, Kinneyia structures have been grouped together with other microbially induced, crinkly decorations on ancient bedding surfaces as wrinkle structures. They are mainly preserved on upper surfaces of ancient siliciclastic-event deposits and are characterized by millimeter-scale, winding, flat-topped crests separated by equally sized round-bottomed troughs and pits. The structure resembles small-scale interference ripples including crest-dominated linear and pitdominated honeycomb-like patterns. The steep slopes of the crests, however, exclude their formation at the air or water-sediment interface. Thin sections across Kinneyia structures reveal their formation beneath microbial mats. They formed at an early stage and do not arise from loading and other processes related to burial. Based on the close relationship to event deposits, a genetic model considering the specific hydraulic conditions on siliciclastic tidal flats after storms or floods is proposed. Numerical calculations show that, after microbial mats have been reestablished on the new sediment surface and groundwater is still flowing downslope, the top portion of the sediment confined beneath mats may be liquefied, thus allowing grains to move with the groundwater. Oscillations of groundwater flow owing to periodic reversals of flow direction at rising tides, and a tidal signal of oscillating pore pressure may enhance formation of ripple-like structures along the boundary with the overlying mat. The model applies primarily to Kinneyia structures presumed to be formed beneath cohesive microbial mats in peritidal zones.
10.2307/3515499|Tertiary Crassostrea oysters grew large and thick shells, whereas their descendants, living Crassostrea, grow comparatively smaller and thinner shells. To test for ecological differences between fossil and living Crassostrea that may account for differences in body size, the stable isotope sclerochronology was examined of two North American species, late Oligocene C. gigantissima (Belgrade Formation, North Carolina) and Quaternary C. virginica (Chesapeake Bay and Mississippi Delta), both purported to share an ancestor-descendent relationship. <sup>18</sup> O and <sup>13</sup> C profiles across skeletal growth increments in two well-preserved C. gigantissima shells show significant differences with profiles from Pleistocene and Recent C. virginica. Significantly higher <sup>18</sup> O and <sup>13</sup> C values and smaller seasonal isotopic ranges with less variability show that C. gigantissima lived in a more fully marine environment than C. virginica. Consequently, C. gigantissima probably was exposed to more predation, competition, and bioerosion than C. virginica. Isotopic profiles also show that C. gigantissima formed skeletal growth increments annually from seasonally varying growth rates, which permits estimation of life span and growth rate. Thicker shells and faster growth rates in C. gigantissima may reflect the greater exposure to fully marine predation and bioerosion, as well as to the conditions associated with higher salinity. Associations between C. gigantissima and phosphatic sediments, intense bioerosion, and other large suspension feeders in the Belgrade Formation are suggestive of an elevated planktonic food supply that may have permitted C. gigantissima to grow thicker shells. If estuaries and lagoons have served as refugia from marine predation since the Mesozoic, as these environments do today, then C. gigantissima may represent a lineage that had left its brackish refuge for shallow-marine environments in the Eocene. The replacement of C. gigantissima by C. virginica in the early Miocene may not represent an ancestor-descendent relationship, but an extinction of C. gigantissima and continued survival of thin-shelled Crassostrea in brackish environments.
27670592|A catastrophically buried stand of calamitean sphenopsids and sigillarian lycopsids is reported from the Middle Pennsylvanian of southwestern Indiana, in the Illinois Basin. The plants were exposed in the highwall of a small surface mine and were rooted in a thin bed of coal (peat), thus representing a flooded and buried swamp surface. Coarse, floodborne silts and sands buried the forest to a depth of <3 m or more, before further incursions of water and sediment truncated the deposit. The rocks are part of the Staunton Formation. Taking up >250 linear meters of exposed highwall surface, the vegetation appears to have been a patchwork of calamitean thickets, with stems perhaps as tall as 35 m, within which scattered, but much larger, emergent Sigillaria trees grew, possibly reaching heights of 1015 m. No ground cover was observed, nor were foliage or reproductive organs attributable to the dominant plants found. The growth of this vegetation in a peat-forming swamp indicates conditions of high water availability, likely in a humid, high-rainfall climate. This kind of plant assemblage, however, cannot be characterized as a rain forest, given that it consisted of medium-height thickets of horsetails with scattered, emergent, and polelike, giant lycopsids, thus lacking a closed upper canopy and possibly only partially shading the ground.
10.2307/3515310|The common Ordovician bivalve genus Ambonychia Hall of the type Cincinnatian Series displays great variation in shell size that is strongly correlated with paleoenvironment. In older Cincinnatian sequences the largest mean and maximum shell size are found in the highest energy paleoenvironments with decreasing size found in lower energy paleoenvironments. Further, the smallest size class of Ambonychia frequently is excluded from the higher energy paleoenvironments, possibly associated with differential taphonomic destruction of smaller shells. The deep-to-shallow water trend in mean and maximum shell size is not present in younger Cincinnatian sequences, perhaps because of a change in the morphology of the younger Ambonychia species, such as the development of a keeled umbo.
10.2307/3515295|Diverse sources and types of evidence indicate that common Cretaceous selachians of the genus Squalicorax were the preeminent scavengers of vertebrate carcasses during Santonian and Campanian ages of the Late Cretaceous. Evidence considered comes from the eastern Gulf Coastal Plain and Western Interior of the United States. Direct, material evidence of scavenging includes a decayed mosasaur vertebral centrum and a hadrosaurian dinosaur metatarsal, each containing a Squalicorax tooth evidently embedded after the host's death Abundant implicit evidence of scavenging includes Squalicorax bite marks and Squalicorax teeth associated with numerous marine tetrapod and fish remains, and at least one additional dinosaur. Many of these bite marks and tooth associations are with predaceous tetrapod taxa, well beyond the reasonable prey size of Squalicorax species. Inference of scavenging by Squalicorax is also based on comparative counts of selachian teeth in Upper Cretaceous deposits in the eastern Gulf of Mexico. Typical shark-tooth assemblages are dominated by lamnoid teeth, but at two well-studied localities containing the associated remains of large vertebrate carcasses, few shark teeth are found except those of Squalicorax, implying that these were shed during scavenging activity. Although it is not definitively proven that Squalicorax was an obligate scavenger, the longevity and cosmopolitan distribution of the genus may relate to this primary feeding strategy.
27670397|Stable isotopic values were measured on micrite, sparry calcite, dolomite, inarticulated brachiopods, and conodonts from the Lange Ranch section (central Texas) of the Lower Ordovician Tanyard Formation. The section spans the upper Cordylodus angulatus Zone through the lower Rossodus manitouensis Zone. An 2 negative 13C shift from >0 to <1.5VPDB through the section suggests the lower third of the Rossodus manitouensis Zone was sampled. Consistent with previous studies, the 18O values of carbonates are low, ranging from 3.3 to 8.1VPDB. Phosphate 18O values range from 15.4 to 17.1VSMOW. Paleotemperature estimates calculated from micrite 18O values assuming an ice-free seawater 18O value of 1VSMOW indicate Early Ordovician tropical seawater temperatures averaged 42C, whereas 18O values of co-occurring biogenic phosphate assuming the same seawater value yield paleotemperature estimates averaging 37C. The phosphate values are interpreted as less affected by diagenesis than carbonate values and suggest Early Ordovician tropical paleotemperatures were not more than 10C warmer or the oxygen isotopic composition of Early Ordovician hydrosphere was not more than 2 lower than present.
10.2307/3514958|"Ichnofabric" is a much more widely used term in ichnological research today than "bioturbate texture," because ichnofabric analysis has proved to be a powerful tool for use in paleoecologic analysis and stratigraphic correlation.
27670584|The Late Miocene Libros biota is a lacustrine-hosted, Konservat-Lagersttte from Libros, near Teruel in northeast Spain. Adult frogs are characterized by the preservation of their soft tissues, some in histological detail. The soft tissues of the body outline are preserved as a layered structure, which comprises a central carbonaceous bacterial biofilm enveloped by the phosphatized remains of the mid-dermal Eberth-Katschenko layer, external to which is a second, thinner, carbonaceous bacterial biofilm. Bacterial autolithification is restricted to limited phosphatization of the cell margins of bacteria adjacent to phosphatized dermis. Phosphatization occurred during the late stages of decay; phosphate was sourced primarily from the dermis itself. Other tissues and organs are also defined in authigenic minerals: nervous tissue (aragonite), the stomach (calcium phosphate), and collagen fibers of the dermal stratum compactum (calcium sulphate); bone marrow is organically preserved. The disparate modes of soft-tissue preservation within individual specimens reflects development of several highly localized, chemically distinct microenvironments within the frog carcasses during decay. These microenvironments correspond to individual organs and tissues, were established at different times during decay, and varied in their duration. The preservation of soft tissues via multiple taphonomic pathways was controlled ultimately by anatomical and physiological factors.
27670483|A detailed characterization of Rhizocorallium assemblages from the Middle Triassic sediments (Ladinian, Muschelkalk facies) of the Betic Cordillera, Spain, and their paleoenvironmental interpretation are provided. Rhizocorallium jenense shows variable U-shaped structures: straight and short, slightly arcuate or sinuous, and fan-shaped. Spreiten are protrusive, and vertically retrusive forms are frequent. Scratches are very abundant, more or less continuous and parallel on the marginal tubes, and more prominent and shorter on the spreiten. Rhizocorallium shows a major orientation at 121E. Rhizocorallium irregulare is scarce and occurs as long, straight-to-slightly-sinuous or arcuate U-shaped forms and usually exhibits scratch marks. The dominance of R. jenense and its orientation, similar to that of gutter casts, reveal colonization during high-energy regimes, mainly related to storm phases. The presence of R. irregulare reflects comparatively quieter intervals, probably interstorm phases. Trace-fossil features reveal firm-ground consistency and Glossifungites ichnofacies. The occurrence of dominant, suspension-feeding R. jenense and scarce, deposit-feeding R. irregulare reflects a high concentration of nutrients in the water column and comparatively organic-poor sediments. The high concentration of Rhizocorallium indicates a large population of trace makers and, probably, opportunistic behavior. Size-frequency curves, however, are coherent with steady-state populations (taphonomic bias?) and with a single generation. Scratch-mark casts could suggest crustaceans as producers, with some appendages in continuous contact with the substrate.
10.2307/3515440|Ordovician brachiopod-rich shell beds have been regarded as the products of autogenic ecologic succession involving gradual accumulation of shells at the sediment surface, culminating in a climax community dominated by epifaunal, attached atrypid or rhynchonellid brachiopods. To evaluate this model, we examined brachiopod-rich shell beds from the Middle Ordovician Verulam Formation of southern Ontario. Polished slabs, acetate peels, and thin sections revealed several features indicative of storm-influenced deposition: normal grading, rip-up clasts, spar-filled shelter porosity beneath bioclasts, and mud-filled shells that had been exhumed from muddy substrates. Complex shell beds with internal discontinuity surfaces are common. Syndepositional reworking during storm events is also supported by predominantly convex-up attitudes of concavo-convex shells. Many beds are directly overlain by sparsely fossiliferous to barren, laminated shales and mudstones that are interpreted as mud tempestites deposited during mud-blanketing events. Cluster analysis of faunal abundance data from the tops of shell beds defined two intergrading assemblages-strophomenid-dominated and atrypid-dominated assemblages. These assemblages represent stages in a sequence of storm-generated, allogenic taphonomic feedback. Strophomenid-rich assemblages formed by the concentration of epifaunal free-lying brachiopods into shell pavements by storm waves and currents. If not buried quickly by mud tempestites, shell pavements were colonized by atrypid brachiopods to produce mixed strophomenid-atrypid assemblages and, eventually, atrypid-dominated assemblages. The complex, storm-influenced histories of the Verulam shell beds affirm the importance of allogenic pathways in small-scale successional changes and suggest that the autogenic model may not be widely applicable.
3515850|Avian and non-avian dinosaur eggshell contains clues that are helpful in the reconstruction of ancient habitats and behaviors. Fossilized eggshell often shows signs of corrosion attributed to acid dissolution of the calcium carbonate, but this process has never been quantified in controlled experiments. In work reported here, extant avian dinosaur egg-shell fragments were placed in buffered solutions of varying pH and temperature for varying periods of time. Changes in the appearance, mass, surface area, and thickness were described and compared with naturally weathered eggshell. Treatment resulted in corrosion and pitting of the outer surface and corrosion of the mammillary structure of the inner surface. Fragment mass, surface area, and thickness generally decreased in response to decreased pH and to increased temperature and exposure time. A classification scheme for eggshell corrosion is proposed.
10.2307/3514496|A controversial explanation for an apparent 26-million-year periodicity in extinctions over the last 250 million years is that the purported "pattern" merely reflects extinctions occurring at random. This explanation would be corroborated if it predicted that extinction maxima should occur on the average every 26 m.y. However, if extinctions are occurring at random, then maxima should occur on the average every 19 m.y. rather than every 26 m.y., so the argument loses its force. While a random model does not fit the observed data well, quasi-periodicity need not arise from extraterrestrial causes. An earth-based alternative is proposed in which the number of extinctions during a given time interval comprises a moving average sum of cohort components, one for the interval and for each previous time intervals (up to a threshold N). The magnitude of each such component simply reflects the number of species that originated in the time interval plus the time elapsed since the interval; the former is viewed as a random input and cohorts are considered to follow an exponential pattern of species loss by terminal extinction.
40960990|As direct evidence of paleowildfires, fossil charcoal has so far rarely been reported from Triassic rocks around the world. Indeed there seems to be a scarcity of reports of charcoal between the Permian-Triassic boundary (PTB) and the Ladinian (upper Middle Triassic), an interval of ~16 myr. There are only a few published records in this time period, consisting either of microscopic charcoal in palynological samples or of indirect evidence such as potential fire scars in wood. Macroscopic charcoal has recently been discovered in the early Middle Triassic (early Anisian) Voltzia Sandstone fossil Lagersttte in southwestern Germany, providing the oldest macroscopic post-Permian evidence of wildfire currently known. Previous authors have suggested a lack of fuel as a reason for the scarcity of charcoal in Lower-Middle Triassic rocks. As the Voltzia Sandstone includes the oldest known, moderately diverse regional paleoflora after the PTB (interpreted by some authors as representing the recovery of the land flora after end-Permian biotic events), a lack of fuel cannot be claimed as a possible reason for the scarceness of charcoal in these rocks. It seems possible in this particular case that previous researchers simply may have overlooked charcoal remains from this formation, either because they were not recognized or were not considered important at the time.
10.2307/3514972|Fringing coral reefs at Discovery Bay, Jamaica, exhibit a pronounced depth-related gradient in water turbulence and associated physicochemical taphonomic factors (abrasion, dissolution), and thus provide ideal settings for investigating the influence of taphonomic processes on the formation of fossil assemblages. Foraminifera are prominent constituents of bioclastic sediments at Discovery Bay, and exhibit a high diversity of test sizes, shapes, wall compositions, architectures, and microstructures which may potentially affect their post-mortem behavior. We have developed a taphofacies model for Jamaican north coast fringing reefs and associated environments that has allowed us to generate hypotheses about the formation of foraminiferal sediment assemblages. Herein, we test the taphofacies model via laboratory and field experiments coupled with previous analyses of foraminiferal sediment assemblages. Based on laboratory and field investigations, dissolution and abrasion acting together are much more effective taphonomic agents than either agent acting alone. Most species tested are, however, resistant to both agents (acting alone or synergistically), although test surfaces may be severely altered (e.g., Amphistegina gibbosa). Only the most fragile species were totally destroyed (e.g., Planorbulina acervalis). Foraminiferal preservation in carbonate sediments may, in some cases, mimic that of condensed intervals of siliciclastic environments, in which shell-rich layers create an environment favorable to their preservation by buffering pore waters of the surface mixed layer against dissolution. Conversely, carbonate and shell-poor terrigenous regimes are predicted to differ in the intensity of physicochemical processes affecting incipient fossil assemblages. Given that carbonate and terrigenous sedimentary regimes also differ in the continuity and rate of sedimentation, shelfal carbonate and shell-poor siliciclastic regimes may differ fundamentally in the taphonomic constraints they place on our interpretation of the paleoecology, biostratigraphy, and evolution of ancient microorganisms. Relative rates of test destruction in carbonate and terrigenous sediments may hold important implications for carbonate budgets and the global carbon cycle.
27670354|The scarcity of fossil crabs compared to heavier calcified taxa implies either: (1) crab remains are rarely preserved (taphonomic hypothesis); (2) crab remains are frequently overlooked / misidentified (taxonomic hypothesis); or (3) crabs were less abundant in ancient ecosystems (ecological hypothesis). To evaluate the taphonomic hypothesis, the preservational potential of the yellow shore crab, Hemigrapsus oregonensis, was evaluated in a modern tidal pool of False Bay, San Juan Islands, Washington, USA. Crab remains were compared to molluscan taxa, which served as a taphonomic reference standard. The surface crab remains (4.2 parts per m2) displayed an anatomical bias: carapace and cheliped remains were more numerous than predicted, while leg remains were underrepresented. Crab remains often were disarticulated, but other alterations (bioerosion, dissolution, or encrustation) were virtually absent. This contrasts with non-crab material (bivalves, gastropods, and barnacles), which was abundant in the tidal pool (41 parts per m2), and dominated (94.7%) by highly taphonomic altered remains, suggesting long exposure at, or near, the surface. Ratios of non-crab to crab remains increased from 10: 1 at the surface to 154:1 in the subsurface. Low taphonomic alteration of crab remains, low density of surface crab material, an increase in non-crab to crab ratio in the subsurface, and a severe anatomical bias imply nearly complete loss of crab remains prior to burial. This suggests a low probability of preservation, especially when compared to co-occurring mollusks, providing quantitative support for the taphonomic hypothesis.
27670521|Within the Middle Jurassic Entrada Sandstone of south-central Utah, cylindrical burrows, 1595 mm diameter, are abundant in large-scale, eolian cross-strata. Burrows are oriented at a high angle to stratification and commonly extend more than 30 cm below their surface termini. They are rarely inclined more steeply than 22. Many are sinuous, and they sometimes branch (120) at bends. Burrows terminate upward against flat-topped cones of structureless sandstone that are up to 15 cm deep and present at numerous, closely spaced stratigraphic horizons. Entrada eolian dune deposits also host abundant burrows likely produced by small insects. Both large and small burrows are most numerous in the uppermost parts of very thick (up to 35 m) compound sets of cross-strata generated by superimposed dunes migrating along the lee slopes of giant dune ridges. The size and morphology of the large burrows and the nature of their fills suggest that they were excavated by vertebrates, possibly insectivores, but the possibility that scorpions or spiders dug the burrows cannot be ruled out. In modern dunes, the top 20 cm of rain-moistened sand dries quickly, but underlying sediment can remain moist for long periods. Conical pits formed on the dry surface of Jurassic dunes at the tops of burrows that were primarily excavated in underlying moist sand. Cones composed of structureless sandstone are active fills produced when burrowers pushed moist sand to the surface, forming spoil piles. Most cylindrical portions of the burrows were also actively backfilled; remaining parts were passively filled when burrow walls collapsed. Cones at burrow tops now delineate thin (510-cm-thick) packages of cross-strata that record slow (seasonal?) dune migration. Rainfall on dune surfaces allowed scattered plants, insects, and insectivorous vertebrates to inhabit the Entrada sand sea. Burrows provided animals with refuge from the hot, desiccating surface conditions.
3515656|Predominant equilibrichnial Rosselia socialis are present at up to thirty stratigraphic levels in middle Pleistocene, siliciclastic inner shelf deposits on the Boso Peninsula, Japan. The ichnofabric composed of R. socialis is interpreted to have formed by a considerably dense population of R. socialis animals (terebellid polychaetes?). The ichnofabric interval represents a transgressive inner shelf deposit strongly affected by a high-frequency, 5th- or 6th-order sea-level rise that probably was rapid enough to influence the ecology of benthic communities. The dense colonization by the R. socialis animals is interpreted to result mainly from rapid transgression caused by short-term sea-level rise. Coastal erosion induced frequent pulses of sedimentation in to the shelfal environment and probably prevented colonization by most benthic animals, except for R. socialis animals, which are thought to be tolerant of such conditions. Ravinement also provided organic detritus, derived mainly from organic-rich coastal deposits of salt-marsh origin, which enabled the detritus-feeding and stress-tolerant R. socialis animals to thrive.
27670363|Modern biodiversity hotspots are characterized by high species diversity and by biotas facing a substantial threat of extinction, largely due to a high proportion of endemic taxa living in these regions. Theoretically, hotspots of biodiversity are areas of particular interest in the fossil record because of the relatively high quality and quantity of data that they may contribute to a global understanding of vegetational response to changes in climate, tectonic uplift, and ecological disturbance. Current models for climatic reconstruction that depend on leaf physiognomy are based on data sets in which species-rich tropical floras are less well represented, relative to temperate floras. Eight modern Neotropical floras from a range of precipitation regimes were evaluated to determine the influence that high source floral diversity has on reconstruction of mean annual temperature (MAT) and mean annual precipitation (MAP). Floras are drawn from sites in Costa Rica to southern Peru, having species richness from 55 to >400 species per plot. MAT of the sites spans a range of 24 to 28C, and MAP ranges from 1600 mm to 3000 mm. By subsampling the modern floras in rank order of dominance (basal area), the importance of collecting intensity and completeness on subsequent assessments of MAT and MAP is evaluated. Biodiverse floras are good at reconstructing MAT if at least 50% of the species are included. When only 25 species are used for temperature calculations, the accuracy of the parameter is compromised, but a 3C error encompasses the majority of the deviation. Application to the early Paleocene Castle Rock fossil flora of Colorado confirms the validity of subsampling in high-diversity fossil applications. However, reconstruction of MAP is fraught with problems that do not appear to be related to biodiversity of the floras. Errors on estimates of MAP currently are so large as to make the values too vague to be useful in most applications. This study has accepted a 20% error as necessary, but the applicability of data with errors > 20% is questionable in situations where rainfall is >1500 mm per year. MAP estimates using leaf area are almost universally underestimates of actual MAP, and frequently are >400 mm in error. Exploration of these data indicates that effort would be well placed in investigating the relative importance of precipitation parameters in altering leaf morphology before choosing one to reconstruct climates of the past.
10.2307/3514939|The Spring Canyon Member of the Blackhawk Formation in Coal Creek Canyon, Utah, consists of four regressive nearshore-to-offshore sequences punctuated locally by hummocky cross-stratification. Collectively, nonstorm bedding units span lower offshore to middle shoreface lithofacies. Associated ichnofaunas tend to be diverse, distinctive, and diagnostic of original depositional gradients. Nevertheless, all resident ichnofaunas are referable to the Cruziana ichnocoenose. Ichnofaunas of hummocky beds, in contrast, mainly represent either a Skolithos ichnocoenose or a mixed Skolithos-Cruziana ichnocoenose. These post-storm ichnocoenoses evidently correspond to a sere of opportunistic pioneers or ensuing seres of resilient resident populations, although distal biocoenoses may have remained essentially beyond reach of prevalent nearshore opportunists. The predominance of domichnia over fodinichnia in initial post-storm ichnocoenoses probably reflects original larval settlement patterns tempered by gradients in hydraulic energy. Differences in ichnofaunas also are related to differences in rates of post-storm deposition: the slower the rate of sediment accumulation, the greater the degree of overprinting by burrows of subsequent seres or equilibrium communities.
40606454|A new fault-associated paleokarst and cave fill has been discovered in north-central Illinois, emplaced in Ordovician limestones. The paleokarst preserves many original solution features, such as oriented grooves, pendants, and half tubes. Many of the ancient cave passages have rounded bottoms and flat roofs. Together these suggest that the original elliptical, phreatic cave passages grew upward by paragenesis, in which the floor of the cave is protected from dissolution by the presence of sediment, while the ceiling of the cave grows upward by dissolution. The fill is dated as Moscovian (Middle Pennsylvanian) based on palynological data and can be correlated with the Tradewater Formation. The fills are composed of a fining-upward sequence of relatively unindurated clastic sediments that contain well-preserved plant fossils, most notably voltzialean conifer and cordaite remains, representative of vegetation living in well-drained areas. Many of the macrofossils are fragmentary but charcoalifled and, along with the megaspores, are uncompressed and preserve exceptional morphological and anatomical data. The presence of abundant charcoal in the fills, as well as diagnostic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, indicates significant wildfire activity in this area during this interval.
10.2307/3515267|A comparison of species richness of leaf litter samples derived from a variety of modern forest types provides a means for estimating diversity of source forests in the fossil record. Single samples of temperate forest litter relatively consistently record about three-quarters of the source tree species larger than 10 cm diameter at breast height within the surrounding hectare. Tropical and subtropical samples, in contrast, contain a very small proportion of leaves of the tree species in the surrounding hectare of source forest, and demonstrate that the forest sampled by a single collection is about 0.1 to 0.125 hectare. Five combined samples from a tropical forest hectare with about 25-m intervals between adjacent samples can be used to extrapolate to hectare-based richness estimates, provided that sufficient specimens are recovered from each site. The major differences in methods needed for reconstruction of source forest richness from forests in different climatic zones indicates that a climatic filter should be applied to estimates of plant diversity in the past.
10.2307/3514999|Current evidence suggests that major morphological innovations in marine animals appeared in nearshore environments and then expanded offshore. As with durophagous predators that evolved late in the Mesozoic, the impact of Homo sapiens is most strongly felt first in onshore benthic communities. Fishing activity worldwide has begun in nearshore environments and then expanded offshore. The community changes wrought by removing predatory (and sometimes herbivorous) teleosts follow the onshore-offshore pattern. Humans are transforming nearshore benthic communities to such an extent that offshore "pristine" communities are rapidly becoming anachronisms. This pattern of change is analogous to patterns of community replacement over geologic time. Whether the human impact will be as radical or as longlasting as previous faunal replacements remains to be seen.
40606518|Despite the considerable knowledge gained of the patterns and processes shaping the completeness and fidelity of fossil bivalve faunas, it is still hard to generalize these patterns to the species level and to different regions around the globe. Here I analyze the completeness and fidelity of Quaternary bivalve faunas of the temperate Pacific coast of South America, summarizing > 120 years of paleontological studies in the region. The degree of completeness, measured as percentage of extant forms, is only moderate. Only 45% of the 93 extant species are preserved in the Quaternary fossil record. When completeness was measured as the discoverable fraction of species (according to a non-parametric richness estimation), however, values were > 88%. Missing species were not biased by shell mineralogy nor concentrated in particular taxonomic groups. Completeness was highly selective for other species traits; small size, geographic restriction, and forms inhabiting deeper areas of the shelf had lower chances of being present in the fossil record, in agreement with previous studies. A generalized linear model revealed that the effect of these variables was multiplicativei.e., the effects of geographic range and bathymtrie distribution were significant only for small-sized forms. Therefore, the moderate degree of completeness may be the consequence of a limited fossilization potential (e.g., via low preservation potential, lack of deep-shelf outcrops, or preburial down-slope transport), rather than poor sampling quality. Results suggest that the sampling effort made in the region has reached a plateau and that further progress in the completeness of species' inventories may occur only at a very slow rate.
10.2307/3515400|Statistically meaningful comparisons of fossil assemblages can be made by calculating cluster-confidence intervals around mean species abundances using data from replicate bulk samples. However, different levels of precision and reliability are obtained from cluster-confidence intervals depending on how sampling effort is distributed when collecting replicate samples. If the species-abundance distributions at a locality are patchy, then both the precision and the reliability of cluster-confidence intervals are increased by distributing sampling effort among a larger number of bulk samples. Collecting larger numbers of samples does not significantly increase the sampling effort if the total number of individuals collected remains the same. Cluster-confidence intervals (CIs) around mean species abundances at a locality provide a way to assess the magnitude of differences observed between localities and can be used to assess the significance of the absence of rare species. Conclusions derived from cluster-CIs regarding the significance of differences in observed species abundances are similar to those obtained using analysis of variance (ANOVA). Cluster-CIs provide a powerful and easily applied tool for assessing the significance of differences in species abundances and paleocommunity composition observed in the fossil record.
3514964|Fossil vertebrate tracks have a potential for providing valuable paleobiologic data to complement investigations of body fossils. Before tracks can be used for this purpose, it is critical to establish precisely what biologically significant signals are encoded in them. It is equally important to know how those signals are affected by the environmental conditions existing at the time and site of track formation and the subsequent taphonomic processes affecting the track. We studied modern tracks at Lake Manyara, Tanzania, to document the environmental and taphonomic controls on track preservation. This closed basin, saline lake closely resembles the depositional setting of many ancient track-bearing strata. Two study sites (an alkaline mudflat and a delta floodplain) were established to monitor substrate conditions and physicochemical/biological processes of importance to track formation, preservation and survivorship probability. Physicochemical factors of importance to tracks included substrate composition and texture, daily wave and seiche reworking, seasonal lake level fluctuations, groundwater table fluctuations, surficial drying, wind deflation and salt crust development. Textural, compositional and moisture content differences between sites regulate the probability of initial track registration and depth of penetration. The various flooding and drying phenomena also generate cycles of track reworking and cracking and stimulate invertebrate bioturbation. Salt crusts on the Alkaline Flats strongly influenced the distribution and preservational quality of smaller tracks. Biological factors included both invertebrate (insect) bioturbation and secondary vertebrate trampling. Surficial turnover rates were estimated at 0.5-1 cm/yr (locally up to 20 cm/yr) for invertebrates and 2.5-3.7 cm/yr for vertebrates. Track and trackway survivorship was monitored both qualitatively (to document the sequence of track deterioration) and quantitatively (to determine rates of deterioration). A systematic and direct relationship exists between track survivorship and distance of the track from shoreline. Nearshore track assemblages persist over time periods measured in hours whereas at distances of >100 m inland, tracks may persist for months. This results both directly from wetting/drying cycles and indirectly from induced invertebrate bioturbation. An abrupt threshold of increased bird track survivorship correlates with the landward limit of significant nightly groundwater discharge. A strong shoreline-parallel zonation of environmental variation correlates with differences in track preservation style. Zone 1, a landward zone of dry, salt encrusted sediments, is dominated by large ungulate tracks which are deformed primarily by baking, cracking and deflation. Tracks here have low probabilities of initial formation but high survivorship. Zone 2, a strandline zone of saturated sediments, contains a mix of large and small mammal and bird tracks. Tracks formed here display the best morphologic definition. Both track formation and reworking rates are higher here than in zone 1. Zone 3 is a subaqueous zone where liquefaction and increasing water depth again limit tracks to those of larger mammals and prevent good track definition. Shoreline parallel taphonomic zonation of tracks should be useful in defining paleoenvironments for ancient track sequences. Preburial track survivorship can be modelled as the interaction between three variables: 1) strain susceptibility of a substrate prior to track formation; 2) track loading stress; and 3) secondary reworking rate. Survivorship isograds (surfaces of equal survivorship probability) can then be plotted in this 3-D space to investigate their relative importance for track preservation. Apparently thresholds or discontinuities exist in track preservation space, where isograds are bunched together. These correlate with points along environmental gradients where extremely rapid transitions in track taphofacies occur. Time averaging is important in the formation of track assemblages but operates over a much briefer time scale than for body fossils. By quantifying the shapes of survivorship isograds ichnologists will ultimately be able to directly estimate trackmaker mass and velocity, substrate compactibility and water content at the time of track formation, as well as quantify time averaging of track assemblages.
10.2307/3515296|The ecological interpretation of extinct plants requires that function-based ecological analogy be made between extant and extinct organisms. Particularly for non-angiosperms, such analogy has been reluctantly assumed. Using a nonangiosperm model, this study identifies a specific suite of characters that can be used to interpret light environments for ancient plants. The tree fern Cyathea caracasana is used as a living model because it offers structural and architectural analogy with ancient tree ferns and some Paleozoic free-standing arborescent pteridosperms. A variety of leaf anatomical and morphological measurements were made on 34 individuals growing in secondary forest and abandoned pasture at Reserva Natural La Planada, Nario, Colombia. Leaf characters were correlated with sitelight conditions quantified from hemispherical photographs. Spearman correlation coefficients show that blade size, petiole length, and palisade / spongy mesophyll ratio are well correlated with light environment. Significant relationships were also observed in frond surface area, thickness of ultimate segment, epidermis thickness, and hypodermis thickness. Although some features may be influenced by nutrient and water status, a well-developed palisade layer and thick hypodermis are specific indicators of light environment that vary plastically in Cyathea caracasana. These data can be used to refine ecological interpretations of extinct foliage; Alethopteris- and Neuropteristype medullosan pteridosperms of the Middle Pennsylvanian (Westphalian) of Euramerica provide an illustrative example.
10.2307/3515115|The importance of boring organisms within reef environments, as agents of framework destruction, and thus as controls to rates of reef accretion, has been widely recognised. Relatively little, however, is known about variations in the distribution of macroborers (principally sponges, bivalves and worms), within individual reef systems. The Upper Miocene reefs of Mallorca present a unique opportunity in which to assess such distributional variations. Borings are preserved as casts within the molds of former corals, and these trace fossils typically exhibit highly characteristic morphologies. Based on the distribution of different bore morphologies, it has been possible to assess variations in both the distribution and abundance of individual borers, and the intensity of boring activity across the reef system. Different parts of the reef are characterised by different associations of boring organisms, with the highest diversity of borers, and the most intense boring activity, observed within corals from the lagoonal facies. The principal control on distributional patterns appears to have been the morphology and structure of the reef framebuilders. Massive corals are always more extensively bored, and typically contain a higher diversity of boring organisms than branched or platy corals. On a more local scale, variations in sediment accumulation rates, and degree of substrate encrustation appear to have exerted some degree of control. Rates of reef accretion would have been influenced not only by the abundance of different boring organisms in different parts of the reef, but on the response of different framebuilders to boring activity. Platy and branched corals, whilst typically less intensely bored, would have been more vulnerable to the effects of boring, while massive corals, which were often extensively bored, were more capable of surviving such damage. This preservational bias has important implications for interpreting styles and rates of reef accretion.
10.2307/3514838|Girvanella-bryozoan mud mounds of the Upper Mississippian Bluefield Formation in southeastern West Virginia formed in a very shallow marine environment in the presence of terrigenous sedimentation. Of the several mud mounds present, three mounds, a larger one and two smaller ones, were studied petrographically. The influence of both terrigenous clastic and carbonate deposition produced a characteristic sequence of mound development: 1) initial establishment by fenestrates, Girvanella, brachiopods, crinoids, and other organisms; 2) deposition of quartz, clay and ooids; 3) re-establishment by fenestrates, Girvanella, brachiopods, and crinoids; 4) repetition of steps two and three; 5) cessation of mound development by progradation of terrigenous clastic sediment. Fenestrate bryozoans played a more dominant role in the development of these low diversity, terrigenous influenced carbonate mud mounds than in carbonate-dominated, high diversity bioherms and mud mounds. Fenestrate bryozoans inhibited sediment movement, trapped sediment, and stabilized the mounds by providing a non-binding framework. Allogenic controls, not autogenic, dominated the succession of the mud mounds. The environmental stress caused by turbidity resulted in a low diversity fauna and prevented faunal succession that typically occurs in other mud mounds. Interpretation of the principal components analysis (PCA) of the point-count data suggests that the constituents of the Girvanella-bryozoan layers are autochthonous, whereas the constituents of the interbedded siliciclastic layers are allochthonous. More importantly, PCA indicated that there were two different sources providing allochthonous material. The mud mounds were affected by both terrigenous progradation from the north and east and carbonate sediment from the south-southwest. Fine quartz sand and clay were the dominant terrigenous sediments from the north and east, whereas ooids were derived from carbonate shoals to the south-southwest. Deposition of autochthonous and allochthonous sediment produced an alternating pattern of Girvanella-bryozoan layers and siliciclastic layers. Ordination of the principal components shows that the smaller mounds (B and C) are distinguishable from the larger mound (A) based on constituent grains. The larger mound was more stable in respect to erosion by the influx of the terrigenous clastics than the smaller mounds.
3515293|Although portions of ancient estuarine paleochannels have high theoretical potential for burial and preservation of vertebrate skeletal remains, relatively few fossiliferous examples have been documented. A recently described, mud-filled incised-valley system (herein abbreviated OMFIV) in the Dinosaur Park Formation (late Campanian) of southeastern Alberta is a spectacular example of this potential. So far, this deposit has yielded thousands of disarticulated vertebrate fossils from basal and internal lag deposits, and tens of associated to articulated specimens from internal bedding surfaces. The OMFTV formed in the freshwater (upstream) portion of the central zone of low energy in a stretched-out, estuarine setting that extended >200 km up into a coastal plain of very low slope. The high abundance and concentration of fossils is probably an artifact resulting from an absence of a diluting sandy bedload. Combined paleontologic and sedimentologic data indicate that (1) disarticulation and reworking of fossils took place within the OMFIV and (2) the assemblage is largely autochthonous to parautochthonous. The OMFIV vertebrate assemblage is more similar in overall composition to previously described "coastal" rather than "inland" paleocommunities of the Judith River Group. However, the OMFIV assemblage differs from "coastal" assemblages in that: (1) it is overwhelmingly aquatic compared to assemblages from other Dinosaur Park Formation paleochannel deposits; (2) the taxa Hybodus, Atractosteus, Belonostomus, and Paralbula dominate the vertebrate assemblage; (3) teleost fish are very abundant; (4) it includes taxa generally considered more typical of marine settings (ratfish, elasmosaurs, ?Lophochelys, and ?Baptornis); and (5) although terrestrial vertebrates are rare, ceratopsians and marsupials are present in unusual abundance, indicating that these taxa were common in paleoenvironments adjacent to the OMFIV. On the basis of sedimentologic and paleontologic data, we conclude that: (1) the OMFIV fossil assemblage represents a distinct subset of the nonmarine Judithian "coastal" paleocommunity comprising a number of taxa adapted to the freshwater portion of the central zone of low energy in an estuarine setting; (2) among Cretaceous vertebrates, teleost fish are sensitive paleoenvironmental indicators; and (3) because of high preservational potential, estuarine facies are important potential sources of paleoecological data.
40606436|Here we report on the frequency, shape, and position of sublethal, predatory-induced breakage on shells of the common pterineid bivalve genus Ptychopteria from the Middle Devonian of New York. Twenty-six of the 115 well-preserved shells of Ptychopteria examined displayed evidence of at least one repair scar. The capacity to retract the vulnerable mantle deep within the shell and squeeze the valve margins together tightly to seal the shell enabled Ptychopteria to sustain marginal shell damage that was often severe. Repair scars resemble traces made by modern shellbreaking predators, especially decapod arthropods. Stereotyped positioning of the repair scars on the posterior portion of the valve also suggests active selection of an attack site by unknown shell-breaking predators.The relatively high repair frequency for Ptychopteria supports a growing body of evidence that suggests predation pressure intensified in the middle Paleozoic.
10.2307/3515563| The enigmatic concretionary exposures that typify the Chaares Formation (Ladinian, northwestern Argentina) long have defied precise paleoenvironmental characterization. Recent work indicates that the formation accumulated in an alluvial-to-lacustrine setting within an active rift basin that received sedimentary detritus from surrounding highlands, as well as copious amounts of volcanic ash. Ash-flow sheets were emplaced presumably as secondary mass flows on alluvial surfaces characterized by small fluvial channels and shallow lakes. Thin bentonite beds intercalated in the Chaares Formation indicate that ash also accumulated via direct airfall, although this mode of emplacement accounts for a very small fraction of the overall section. A shift to widespread lacustrine deposition is recorded by the superjacent Los Rastros Formation, which preserves at least six shallowing-upward hemicycles, five of which commenced amidst explosive volcanic activity as evidenced by intercalated bentonite beds. Volcanism played an important role in the generation and preservation of the Chaares Formation's exceptional tetrapod fossil record. This is especially true of the classic Los Chaares locality, where more than 100 individuals representing a diverse array of taxa (archosaurs, cynodonts, dicynodonts) are entombed in volcanogenic concretions with matrices of relic glass shards diagenetically replaced by calcite. Taphonomic attributes of the Los Chaares locality are consistent with the scenario of mass mortality, and several clues hint at the nature of the event. The killing agent was lethal to a variety of taxa, killed both adults and juveniles, and led to the concentration of taxa that under normal circumstances would tend to dissociate, such as carnivores and their potential prey. It also produced a counter-intuitive bias against the preservation of large-bodied taxa, which may have been largely unsusceptible to the death event, or perhaps were excluded from the Los Chaares death assemblage via post-mortem sorting. The spatial arrangement of skeletal material in a small sample of concretions is consistent with the stranding of tetrapod carcasses along a strandline, and it is feasible that volcanism led to catastrophic flooding of the landscape via damming and / or diversion of local drainages. Uncompacted skeletal elements and relic outlines of glass shards indicate that carbonate concretions formed shortly after skeletal material was buried in reworked volcanic ash. The microbial decay of organic matter presumably catalyzed concretion diagenesis. There is no indication that bone hydroxyapatite diffused into the entombing glassy matrix and contributed to concretion formation. Bones entombed within early diagenetic concretions were safeguarded from subsequent destructive pedogenic and /or diagenetic processes, and were incorporated in exquisite quality into the fossil record. 
10.2307/3514494|Tidal flats of the Yellow Sea rival those of the North Sea in size and ichnologic importance. Near Inchon the low-energy macrotidal regime results in diverse associations of lebensspuren across an intertidal expanse about 4 km wide. Although all ichnofaunas are referable to the archetypical Cruziana ichnocoenose, three different associations of traces and tracemakers are discernible: 1) Brachyuran coenose, zero to approximately 0.9 km from shore, corresponding to a slightly sandy, intensely bioturbated, inner mud flat typified by domichnia, repichnia, and pascichnia of the ocypodid crabs Ilyoplax pingi and Macrophthalmus japonicus; species of epibenthic, semiendobenthic, and endobenthic tracemakers are nearly equally important, ecologically, but total diversity of lebensspuren is relatively low. 2) Molluscan coenose, approximately 0.9 to 2.1 km from shore, corresponding to a wavy-bedded middle flat of clayey, sandy silt exemplified by domichnia of the solenid bivalve Solen strictus and repichnia of the trochid gastropod Umbonium thomasi; species of epibenthic and endobenthic tracemakers are more abundant than semiendobenthic species, yet local ichnofaunas are increasingly diverse. 3) Holothurian coenose, approximately 2.1 to more than 3.9 km from shore, corresponding to a ripple-laminated outer flat of sandy silt to silty sand characterized by fodinichnia and pascichnia of the synaptid holothurian Protankyra bidentata; ichnofaunas are diverse, although epibenthic tracemakers are subordinate to endobenthic and semiendobenthic species. These three intergradational coenoses and allied behavioral patterns correlate more or less directly with major hydrologic and sedimentologic gradients across the tidal flat. Comparable tripart zonations should be discernible within expansive ancient tidal flat deposits, although mid-flat coenoses may be less distinctive in low-energy than in high-energy settings.
10.2307/3515414|Measurements offusellar heights along the metasiculae of several Arenig graptolite species demonstrate considerable variation both between and within taxa. In many cases, heights increased rapidly during initial growth; the rate of increase decreased towards the midpoint of the metasicula then remained constant throughout the remainder of the metasicula. There are, however, many exceptions to this general rule. In some specimens, fusellar height continues to increase throughout the whole of the metasicula, while in a few examples heights actually decrease distally. Based on limited study of thecal fusellar heights, it is believed that in the species examined maximum height was achieved early in the secretion of the metatheca. This contrasts with later Ordovician and Silurian taxa in which maximum height generally increases throughout development of the theca. Although increasing fusellar height may have been related to growth of the sicular and thecal zooids, it is concluded that increase in height was, at least in part, independent of such a control. Alternating light and dark bands visible in transmitted light microscopy are apparently related to fusellar development. Bands are regular; each pair of bands typically involves six to nine fuselli and has diffuse boundaries. Detailed electron microscope study suggests that the banding is related to a regular thickening and thinning of the primary (fusellar) layer of the sicular wall. We consider the variation to have been diurnal in origin, each cycle representing a twenty-four hour period. Although this would indicate somewhat more rapid fusellar secretion than in extant hemichordates, both secretion rates and deduced lifespans of rhabdosomes (several years for most rhabdosomes) would compare well both with hemichordates and other modern colonial invertebrates.
10.2307/3515441|Filamentous and possible coccoid bacteria are preserved in calcite vein-fills cutting Devonian lacustrine limestones in the Tynet Burn fish bed near Fochabers, N.E. Scotland. Filamentous bacteria grew into open space off the walls of fractures and are concentrated as clumps on some detrital grains. The filaments were coated by iron hydroxide and are now represented by hollow canals 0.3-0.4 m diameter enclosed in a sheath of acicular hematite crystals each 2 m long by 0.2 m broad. Possible coccoid bacteria are represented by hematite spheres 0.5 to 2 m diameter. The bacteria grew in cracks formed by deformation of the sediments after initial compaction and formation of calcareous concretions. Fossil fish are preserved in red and purple colors and the surrounding matrix displays a halo of oxidation which is considered to have been bacterially mediated. Bacterial invasion of sediments took place during lowstands of the Middle Devonian Orcadian Lake when the sediment was in the vadose zone. A clear association is seen between the bacteria-bearing veins and reddening of the succession.
27670431|A concentration of Pseudorca crassidens remains resulting from a mass stranding on the tidal flats of the Colorado River Delta, Baja California, Mexico, was analyzed to determine how bone and individual density and variation in taphonomic condition differs from a time-averaged assemblage of marine mammals. Five hundred and thirty seven skeletal elements, including 26 whole skulls, were found among 204 bone sites in a 13,000 m2 area. Skulls provide the best estimate of minimum number of individuals; all other skeletal elements are underrepresented. Twenty bones per individual, one bone per 26 m2, and one individual per 536 m2 characterize this the mass-stranding locality. Bone density and individual density are greater at this locality than in a previously studied time-averaged assemblage from the Colorado Delta. Although the lack of variation in taphonomic condition is sometimes used as one criterion for a mass-death assemblage, the condition of the remains in this mass stranding varies both within and among skeletal elements. Teeth tend to be in good condition, earbones in fair condition, and vertebrae in poor condition. The taphonomic differences are a result of variation in the density and size of the skeletal element, variation in associated sediment (sand or mud), and variation in exposure (surface or buried). Despite the fact that all the individuals died at the same time, the taphonomic condition of their skeletal elements varies greatly.
10.2307/3514628|Co-occurrences of key index species, discovered in Middle to Upper Ordovician strata in the Arbuckle and Ouachita mountains and in Kentucky, require revisions of the graptolite zonation. Species assemblages in the lower and upper parts of the Nemagraptus gracilis Zone are distinct enough to allow the recognition of two subzones, the Nemagraptus gracilis Subzone and the Climacograptus bicornis Subzone, respectively. The C. bicornis Subzone is largely correlative with the British Diplograptus multidens Zone and includes the classical Normanskill Shale of New York. Between the N. gracilis and Dicellograptus complanatus Zones, graptolite assemblages display marked biofacies throughout North America and support the need for a dual zonation. Critical co-occurrences show that the bases of the Orthograptus amplexicaulis Zone, as redefined herein, and the Corynoides americanus Zone are equivalent, correlate with a level low in the British Dicranograptus clingani Zone, and follow directly above the C. bicornis Subzone. Graptolite biostratigraphy indicates that the contact between the Bromide and Viola Springs formations in the Arbuckle Mountains correlates with the contact between the Womble Shale and Bigfork Chert in the Ouachita Mountains and with a hiatus between the Woods Hollow Shale and Maravillas Chert in the Marathon region of West Texas. The lithologic changes associated with these formation boundaries are interpreted to represent a eustatic drop in sea level in the Ouachita Geosyncline and a marked subsidence event in the Southern Oklahoma Aulacogen. The eustatic and subsidence events are considered to have been contemporaneous with each other and with emplacement of the Taconic Allochthon and subsidence of the Taconic Foreland Basin in the Appalachians.
3514455|Inlet shoals at the southern end of Georgia barrier islands typically are separated from the beach by a prominent longshore channel, which functions as a shortcut connection between the adjacent sound and the nearshore shelf. This open-ended channel constitutes an excellent natural flume for the taphonomic study of shell distributions. The central part of the channel-a relatively deep scour hole resulting from tidal jets-is a nodal point between ebb and flood effects. In spite of ebb-dominant tidal currents through most of the system, landward transport of shells occurs from this node into adjacent parts of the sound; seaward transport of shells is predominant from the node onto adjacent parts of the shelf. The scour hole itself is a stratigraphic leak for relict Holocene and Pleistocene shells. During transport, shell assemblages are mixed temporally and tend to be homogenized with respect to valve sizes and original habitat distributions, and bivalves are disarticulated. Such reworked assemblages probably are common among ancient barrier island/tidal inlet/shoal deposits. Indiscriminate approaches to the paleoecology and biostratigraphy of these facies yield correspondingly misleading results.
10.2307/3515018|The bathymetric zonation of benthic Foraminiferal taxa in the northwest Gulf of Mexico is summarized and compared to several important environmental parameters measured in boxcores collected along a depth transect. The parameters are bottom water temperature, organic carbon flux, bottom water oxygen content, biogeochemical gradients within the sediments and sedimentation regime. The prominent Foraminiferal boundary between 170 and 200 m is associated with the position of the mudline in the northwest Gulf. Below this, assemblage changes are more gradational with water depth and, between 200 and 600 m, appear to be related to gradients in temperature, oxygen supply and organic carbon flux. Between 600 and 2000 m bathymetric zonation correlates to the organic carbon flux profile. An analysis of sediment pore water geochemistry and sedimentary features in the boxcores shows that there is a progressive change in the vertical distribution and character of potential microhabitats within the sediments down the slope of the northwest Gulf. From 250 to about 700 m water depth the biogenic structures observed in the sediments are abundant and complex, and the biogeochemical gradients in the sediments are steep. The visible complexity and chemical gradients gradually decrease with increasing water depth so that by 1000 m the anoxic boundary is deeper than 7 cm in our boxcores. At water depths greater than 1200 m the sediments are homogeneous, oxidized, hemipelagites. The published Foraminiferal bathymetrie zonation of the N. W. Gulf appears to follow this gradient in sedimentary environments which must influence the generation of benthic Foraminiferal assemblages. The gradient is largely controlled by the organic carbon flux to the sea-bed.
10.2307/3515033|Late Pennsylvanian coal swamps of the Illinois Basin were dominated by Psaronius tree ferns with a spatially heterogeneous distribution of medullosan pteridosperms (subdominant), calamites, sigillarian lycopsids, and cordaites. Miospore and coal-ball plant assemblages from the Missourian-age Bristol Hill Coal Member (Bond Formation) and Friendsville Coal Member (Mattoon Formation) of southeastern Illinois were quantified to analyze vegetational patterns in Late Pennsylvanian peat swamps and to compare vegetational composition of the coals. In the Bristol Hill Coal (95 coal balls, 2613 cm<sup>2</sup> coal-ball peels), tree ferns are dominant (75.6%), followed by pteridosperms (11.5%), lycopsids (10.6%), sphenopsids (0.6%), small ferns (1.6%), and cordaites (0.1%). Coal-ball peats from the Friendsville Coal (719 coal balls, 26,659 cm<sup>2</sup> coal-ball peels) also are dominated by tree ferns (74.9%), followed by pteridosperms (15.4%), cordaites (6.6%), sphenopsids (2.5%), lycopsids (0.4%), and small ferns (0.2%). Tree-fern spores were the most abundant element in miospore assemblages from both coals, but the coals differ in relative abundance of tree-fern species. Bristol Hill samples are distinguished by abundant Speciosporites minutus (46%) and Cyclogranisporites (12%), whereas Friendsville samples incorporated more Punctatisporites minutus (27%) and Apiculatisporis saetiger (23%). Estimates of vegetational abundance from the coal-ball and miospore records were compared using ratios of percent abundance of miospore species to source plant abundance in the coal-ball record (R-values). In both coals, tree ferns are evenly represented in both micro- and megafossil records (R = 0.8-1.2), and pteridosperms are represented poorly (R < 0.02). Small ferns are over-represented in the miospore record (R = 12-32), and values for lycopsids and cordaites are quite variable (R = 0.6-3.4 and R = 0.03-6.5, respectively). Three-dimensional sampling over a 20 m<sup>2</sup> area (profiles collected from adjacent 1 m<sup>2</sup> grids) of a large coal-ball mass in the Friendsville Coal indicates the need for extensive collections of laterally separate profiles in the Upper Pennsylvanian. Large diameter (up to 1 m) Psaronius trunks and fallen trees, such as calamites, may markedly bias estimates of biomass composition because of size and varied distribution of such large plants.
25835601|Tubificids are important conveyor-belt feeders in freshwater settings because dense populations can rapidly rework bottom deposits through selective ingestion of silt and clay. The rate at which these organisms redistribute sedimentary particles is the focus of this research in which a new method is presented to address specific disadvantages of previous studies documenting tubificid bioadvection. The new approach incorporates an aquarium inoculated with sediment and worms in which the sediment surface is photographed through time as tubificids produce fecal mounds. Employing computer software, mounds are traced, and using a known pixel length, the program calculates the traced area, which is converted to volume of upturned sediment by assuming an idealized conical shape. This method resulted in a particle redistribution rate for a population of Limnodrilus and Tubifex at 0.0420.139 cm/d/100,000 individuals/m at 21 C. During sediment reworking, segregation of silt and clay forms biogenic graded bedding defined by a poorly sorted bed with an overall decrease in mean, modal, and median grain sizes upward. This tubificid-formed graded bedding could be recognized in the rock record through careful analyses of grain-size distributions that distinguish biogenic reworking from physically graded beds. Ichnologically, this occurrence corresponds to the broad conditions defined by the Mermia Ichnofacies, but is yet unrecognized and may actually obliterate typical traces associated with this ichnofacies. Identification of ancient tubificid-formed graded beds has the potential to enhance interpretations of environmental conditions (sedimentation rate and current velocities), provide evidence for a previously unrecognized paleobiomass, and broaden the definition of the Mermia Ichnofacies.
10.2307/3514720|Trace fossils have been used widely as indicators of original water depth in paleoenvironmental studies, but most paleobathymetric interpretations in ichnology have been based on only a small number of standard ichnofacies. In addition to bathymetry, it is important to recognize that salinity, oxygen concentration, and substrate character also play a major role in controlling the distribution of trace fossils. Several pitfalls of paleobathymetric interpretation based on trace fossils can lead to erroneous paleoenvironmental reconstructions. The most common of these pitfalls, of which historical geologists should be wary, include the following: 1) occurrence of a particular ichnogenus does not necessarily indicate the presence of the ichnofacies of the same name, and a standard ichnofacies may be identified without the presence of the namesake trace fossil; 2) environmental shifts of certain trace fossils have occurred through time, so the paleoenvironmental significance of a particular ichnotaxon may have changed during its history; 3) the nine standard ichnofacies that have enjoyed wide use by ichnologists have broad environmental significance that may include, but certainly extends beyond, bathymetry; 4) not all environmental situations are represented in the nine standard ichnofacies, so many trace fossil associations in the real world cannot be easily fit into those categories.
10.2307/3514708|Occurrence data for 2,876 molluscan species (including species, subspecies, variations, and unnamed forms) in the northern Gulf states of Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama show a punctuated succession through the Paleogene stratigraphic sequence. These occurrence data are readily divisible into five successional cycles that correspond both to stratigraphic groups and to cycles of marine transgression and regression. The base of each cycle contains a fauna with a high percentage of species making their first appearance and coincides with a marine transgression. This percentage decreases through the cycle as the percentage of species making their last appearance increases. Each cycle is concluded by a marine regression. Individual cycles represent a background "normal" rate of speciation and extinction events. Punctuations between cycles represent major extinction events produced by marine regression and accompanying increased shelf sedimentation from advancing delta complexes.
27670465|The Mother's Day Quarry, in the lower part of the Upper Jurassic Morrison Formation of south-central Montana, contains a low-diversity assemblage dominated by immature diplodocoid sauropods. The sauropod bones lie within a 3-m-thick, massive, sandy siltstone containing scattered pebbles and carbonate nodules. Clay rip-up clasts indicate a high-energy depositional environment, and high-angle bone orientations are commensurate with a combination of the inferred high-energy burial event and postburial trampling of the assemblage. Since the Morrison Formation records deposition in an alluvial plain setting characterized by little topographic relief, heavy rainfall likely triggered the high-density flow event. Taphonomic analysis shows no indication that the Mother's Day assemblage was transported far by the entombing flow, though many elements may have been reworked. There is no statistically significant orientation of elongate elements and little apparent evidence of hydraulic sorting or transport damage. Remnants of soft tissue recovered from the quarry and the semiarticulated state of many of the bones demonstrate that the sauropod carcasses were buried a relatively short time after death. The cause of death of the sauropods is largely speculative; it is thought to have been related to drought based on the juvenile-dominated age profile of the assemblage and the inferred sequence of limb disarticulation. Comparison with other sauropod-dominated assemblages reveals that burial rates have little influence on the preservation of sauropod remains. Low-transport potential of sauropod bones implies that the sauropod component of dinosaurian assemblages should nearly always represent faunal elements derived from environments proximal to the site of deposition.
10.2307/3514987|Pleistocene and Holocene carbonate grainstones or calcarenites capping the islands of the Bahamas commonly contain distinctive animal and/or plant trace fossils. Three ichnocoenoses within the Skolithos and Psilonichnus ichnofacies are recognized in the transition from sediments deposited in the shallow shelf environment, commonly associated with coral reefs, to sediments of the coastal dune environment. Analog relationships between the trace fossils and modern tracemakers can be established in many cases, and this correspondence strengthens the interpretive model. Ophiomorpha and Skolithos linearis characterize beds deposited in shallow shelf settings. Psilonichnus upsilon, the fossil burrow of the ghost crab Ocypode quadrata, marks beds deposited in the upper foreshore-backshore environment and has particular utility as an indicator of sea-level position. A diverse ichnocoenosis consisting of Skolithos linearis, a large cluster burrow, small, irregular burrows, and plant trace fossils formed along bedding planes characterizes beds of the dunal environment. The ichnologic model developed herein for recognition of depositional zones in the transition from shallow subtidal to dune environments in the tropical, carbonate coastal settings of the Bahamas should be applicable to other geologically similar settings around the world.
